-- China Mobile Profit Gain Capped by Costs to Add 3G Users
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-15T10:33:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/china-mobile-second-quarter-beats-estimates-on-3g-subscribers.html
China Mobile Ltd. (941) , the world’s
largest phone company by users, posted a 2.5 percent rise in
second-quarter profit as costs to add new subscribers to its
third-generation network restrained growth.  Net income  rose to 35.2 billion  yuan  ($5.8 billion) from
34.4 billion yuan a year earlier, according to figures derived
from first-half results released by the Beijing-based company
today. The profit beat the 33.9 billion-yuan average of four
 analyst estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer Li Yue is luring subscribers to 3G
with subsidies on a range of devices, including Huawei
Technologies Co.’s Ascend P6 that is advertised as the world’s
slimmest smartphone. Handset subsidies, which hit 14.2 billion
yuan in the first half, and the rollout of 4G services are
choking profit growth with the latest results marking the third
time in four quarters that earnings rose 3 percent or less.  “The operating expenses really surged in the first half,”
said Ricky Lai, an analyst at Guotai Junan International
Holdings Ltd. in  Hong Kong . “They still need heavy handset
subsidies to propel subscriber growth and China Mobile is going
to suffer from that.”  The company, the only one of China’s three largest carriers
not to offer Apple Inc.’s iPhone, is expected to report its
first annual profit decline in 14 years, according to analyst
estimates. China Mobile and Apple are still in talks on the
iPhone, Chairman  Xi Guohua  said at a press conference in Hong
Kong today. The talks are on commercial details and technology
for its fourth-generation TD-LTE network, he said.  Sales Surge  Second-quarter sales rose 15 percent to 168.4 billion yuan
in the quarter. The company was expected to report revenue of
147.8 billion yuan, according to the average of six  estimates  in
the Bloomberg survey.  “The results are weak” even while beating analyst
estimates, Bertram Lai, an analyst at CIMB Securities in Hong
Kong, said in an e-mail today. The slow pace of growth was
“likely driven by handset subsidies.”  China Mobile  rose  0.2 percent to close at HK$84.10 in Hong
Kong trading. The  shares  have dropped 6.8 percent this year
while the benchmark  Hang Seng Index  is little changed.  The company is looking to mobile web users who download
games and movies to help stem a decline in its share of the
nation’s 1.18 billion wireless users.  4G Network  The carrier’s 740.2 million wireless subscribers accounted
for 63 percent of China’s total users at the end of June, down
from 65 percent a year earlier, according to data the company
released last month. Its share of the nation’s 1.18 billion
wireless users has dropped from 68 percent two years ago.  China Mobile is backing smartphones to stem that decline.
The company added 23.5 million 3G users in the quarter for a
total of 137.9 million at the end of June, according to data the
company released last month.  “ China  Mobile’s 3G business is starting to gain
traction,” Wang Jinjin, an analyst at UBS AG in Hong Kong,
wrote in an Aug. 13 report. Data usage “has taken off driven by
more smartphones since late last year.”  The carrier is also moving to add fourth-generation
services.  China Mobile is actively preparing for commercialization of
4G, CEO Li said at the press conference in Hong Kong today.
China Mobile has 15 handsets ready for service on the faster
network with more than 100 models of 4G devices in development,
he said.  Network Costs  After building a trial 4G network in 15 cities in 2012,
China Mobile in February said it will expand that to 100 cities
this year, with 200,000 base stations that can reach a
population of 500 million people. China’s government may issue
licenses for 4G commercial service toward the end of this year,
the company said in March.  Some costs for the 4G rollout that were previously borne by
its state-owned parent are now being shouldered by the listed
unit, which will boost its  capital spending  49 percent to 190.2
billion yuan this year, the company said in March.  First-half revenue from the sale of products more than
doubled to 18.4 billion yuan, a category China Mobile previously
treated as “incidental,” it said in today’s filing.  With rising costs for its high-speed networks, China Mobile
has been reporting some of the weakest financial results since
listing in Hong Kong in 1997. The company is projected to report
a 1.3 percent drop in full-year net income to 127.6 billion
yuan, according to the average of 23  estimates  in the Bloomberg
survey. The company last reported an annual decline in 1999.  China Unicom (Hong Kong) Ltd. (762) , the nation’s second-largest
carrier, on Aug. 8 posted a 41 percent jump in net income that
beat analysts’ estimates.  China Telecom Corp. (728) , the third-biggest, reports results Aug. 21.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  