-- China Mobile has 15 Handsets Set for 4G as Apple Talks Continue
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-15T10:49:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/china-mobile-has-15-handsets-set-for-4g-as-apple-talks-continue.html
China Mobile Ltd. (941) , the world’s
largest phone company by users, has 15 handsets ready to be used
on its fourth-generation mobile network as it continues talks
with  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  for iPhone cooperation.  More than 100 devices are in development for the carrier’s
TD-LTE network, Chief Executive Officer Li Yue said at a press
conference in Hong Kong today. Li, whose company doesn’t offer
the iPhone, didn’t identify the vendors of the 4G handsets.  Apple CEO  Tim Cook  met with China Mobile Chairman  Xi Guohua 
in Beijing last month, his second visit this year, as the
company dropped to seventh in the nation’s smartphone market in
the June quarter. While each of the top five vendors has a
distribution agreement with China Mobile, Apple is limited to
the nation’s second- and third-largest carriers.  “The discussions with Apple are still ongoing,” Xi said
at today’s press conference. “Most of the discussion revolves
around commercial details and technology issues.”  China Mobile’s 740 million wireless users account for 63
percent of the market. Cupertino, California-based Apple has
agreements in place with  China Unicom (Hong Kong) Ltd. (762) , the
nation’s second-largest carrier, as well as third-ranked China
Telecom Corp.  Suwon, South Korea-based  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  led
China’s smartphone market with its 18 percent share in the
second quarter, followed by  Lenovo Group Ltd. (992)  with 12 percent,
researcher Canalys said this month. The rest of the top five
were all local vendors that have distribution agreements with
China Mobile: China Wireless Technologies Ltd.’s Coolpad; ZTE
Corp; and Huawei Technologies Co.  Sliding Share  Apple’s market share halved to 5 percent in the second
quarter, its lowest since the fourth quarter of 2010, according
to Canalys.  China Mobile runs a third-generation network standard
called TD-SCDMA, which Apple so far hasn’t agreed to support.
The carrier is preparing for commercialization of its fourth-generation network using the international TD-LTE standard.  The carrier today said it spent 14.2 billion  yuan  on
subsidies in the first half of this year to attract users to its
3G network.  China Mobile’s  net income  in the second quarter rose 2.5
percent to 35.2 billion yuan as costs to add new subscribers to
restrained growth, according to figures derived from first-half
results released today.  Carolyn Wu, a Beijing-based Apple spokeswoman, didn’t
immediately return phone calls for comment on Xi’s remarks.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net ;
Lulu Yilun Chen in Hong Kong at 
 ychen447@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  