-- China Drugmakers Decline on Corruption Crackdown: Shanghai Mover
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-15T07:53:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/china-drugmakers-decline-on-corruption-crackdown-shanghai-mover.html
Jiangsu Hengrui Medicine Co. fell
the most in almost three years in Shanghai trading as drugmakers
declined after the Xinhua News Agency  reported  China is starting
a campaign to crack down on illegal competition in the industry.  Jiangsu Hengrui dropped 5.9 percent to 32.76  yuan  at the
close, the biggest loss since Oct. 11, 2010. Beijing SL
Pharmaceutical Co. slid 5.8 percent to 55.59 yuan. A gauge of
health-care companies fell 3 percent, the most among 10 industry
groups on the CSI 300 index. The  Shanghai Composite index 
dropped 0.9 percent and CSI 300 index lost 1.2 percent.  “The crackdown on irregularities in the medical sector has
undermined confidence among some investors and they expect drug
prices to fall,” said Wu Kan, a Shanghai-based fund manager at
Dragon Life Insurance Co., which oversees $3.3 billion.  The campaign, which will last until the end of November,
will target “commercial bribery” and “unfair competition” by
companies abusing a dominant market position, Xinhua said,
citing the State Administration for Industry & Commerce.  China  has expanded its anti-corruption probe of
pharmaceutical companies to drive down drug prices as it seeks
to expand health care to the poor and uninsured. President Xi Jinping has made affordable health care a key part of the
Communist Party’s agenda.  The National Development & Reform Commission is already
investigating 60 foreign and local pharmaceutical companies in
relation to pricing, the China Daily reported separately.  Sanofi, Glaxo  Authorities in the southeastern province of Fujian said
1,088 medical professionals from 73 hospitals were suspected of
corruption after a six-month investigation, Xinhua  reported  on
July 24. In southern Guangdong province, 39 employees of a
hospital will be punished for taking illegal kickbacks from
pharmaceutical companies, according to another Xinhua report.  Sanofi,  France ’s largest drugmaker, said on Aug. 10 it will
cooperate with a review of its business in China after a
newspaper reported this month a whistle-blower’s allegations
that the company paid about 1.69 million yuan ($276,000) in
bribes to 503 doctors in the country.  GlaxoSmithKline Plc, the U.K.’s largest drugmaker, is the
subject of a corruption probe, and three other companies have
been, or are in the process of being, examined by authorities.
Johnson & Johnson was fined for monopolistic practices this
month, while Eli Lilly & Co. was reviewed earlier this year by
authorities in Shenyang, the company said on Aug. 1.  Authorities budgeted 850 billion yuan in April 2009 for an
overhaul of the nation’s health care system to reduce the costs
of essential drugs and provide more than 90 percent of the
population with basic health insurance. Spending in the three
years since then had exceeded 1.1 trillion yuan, Xinhua  reported 
in March 2012.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net ;
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Patterson at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  