-- Christie Says His Re-Election Should Be Model for Party
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2013-08-15T21:57:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/christie-says-his-re-election-should-be-model-for-party.html
New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie 
made the case that his political success in a Democrat-dominated
state can offer lessons for his party and also potentially be
translated to the national level during a speech today to the
 Republican National Committee .  As he pursues a re-election bid he’s favored to win in
November, “we’re going to learn things this year that we’re
going to be able to apply to the races we’re going to have in
2014 and beyond,” he said in the speech in  Boston  recorded by
 Bloomberg News .  Christie, citing his endorsements from trade unions, also
said Republicans should try to pit private-sector and public-sector unions against each other.  “We as a party better get smart on this issue because
those men and women who work for those private-sector unions
know that the way they get to work and make more money and put
food on the table for their families is private-sector job
growth,” he said. “We as a political party have an opportunity
to drive a wedge in the union movement. And the laboratory where
that is happening right now is in my state.”  Christie, 50, left some in the room with the impression
that those lessons also could be translated to 2016, when he’s
viewed as a potential presidential candidate.  “I took all that to mean, ‘I’m going to run in 2016 and
I’ve demonstrated a winning formula. If you want to win and
don’t just care about ideology, I’m your candidate,’” Steve
Munisteri, the Republican chairman in Texas, told reporters
after the speech.  Republican Challenge  Christie made his remarks to Republican leaders searching
for a path forward following a demoralizing loss to President
 Barack Obama  in 2012. The party is seeking to revamp its
messaging and policies to better appeal to minorities and women.  “If we don’t win, we don’t govern,” Christie said. “I am
going to do anything that I need to do to win.”  Christie, who defeated Democratic incumbent  Jon Corzine  in
2009 to win his first term, argued some in his party seem more
interested in debates than election victories.  “I think we have some people who believe our job is to be
college professors,” he said.  Jindal Barb  The governor took a veiled shot at one of his potential
rivals for the 2016 Republican nomination, Louisiana Governor
 Bobby Jindal , who in a speech early this year called on the
party to stop being “stupid.”  “I know there are a lot of different opinions in this
party and that’s good,” Christie said. “We want to have a lot
of different opinions. But I’m not going to be one of these
people who come and call our party stupid.”  Citing endorsements he’s received from Hispanic and black
groups in his re-election bid, Christie said Republicans can
make gains among demographic groups that have trended toward
Democrats.  “You don’t have to sacrifice your base voters to win
Latino votes,” he said. “You don’t have to sacrifice your base
voters to win a share of African-American votes. You don’t have
to sacrifice your base voters to be able to win the building
trade votes. You don’t have to sacrifice your base voters to
close a gender gap and turn it in the other direction. You don’t
have to.”  Hand Shaking  Known as a sometimes unconventional Republican, Christie
appeared to be working to mend his relationship with party
stalwarts, spending roughly 30 minutes after his speech shaking
hands and posing for photos with RNC members. Even as his
profile has grown nationally, he’s angered parts of the party.  That ill-will has come in part from appearances he has made
with Obama and former President  Bill Clinton , during which he
offered praise for both Democrats.  In June, Christie appeared on stage in  Chicago  with Clinton
at the  Clinton Global Initiative America  meeting. Christie in
late May appeared for the second time with Obama for a tour of
the New Jersey shore to inspect the recovery from last October’s
 Hurricane Sandy .  The governor drew criticism from some in his party
immediately after the storm by praising Obama’s handling of the
initial federal response -- which some said gave the president a
pre-election boost in his race against Republican nominee  Mitt Romney .  At year’s end, some party colleagues also were aggrieved
when he criticized U.S. House Speaker  John Boehner  of  Ohio  and
other Republicans in the chamber for delays in approving federal
storm assistance.  Democratic Response  The  Democratic National Committee  reacted to Christie’s RNC
speech by panning him and his party.  “From economic growth to education funding and supporting
women’s health programs, Chris Christie doesn’t have a record to
run on -- it’s a record to run from,” Democratic National
Committee Press Secretary Michael Czin said in a statement.
“From Republicans in Congress’ unwillingness to support
commonsense immigration reform with a path to citizenship to
Governor Christie’s abysmal record of  job creation  - the
 Republican Party  is failing to lay out a positive vision that
will help ensure a better bargain for middle-class Americans.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John McCormick  in Boston at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  