-- Citigroup Shuts Egypt Branches on Orders From Government
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n   a n d   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2013-08-15T18:49:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/citigroup-shuts-egypt-branches-on-orders-from-government.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-biggest
U.S. bank, shut its Egyptian branches on orders from the
country’s central bank amid a military crackdown on anti-government protests.  “Citi’s branches were closed today per CBE instruction,”
said Shannon Bell, a spokeswoman for the New York-based lender,
referring to  Egypt ’s central bank. “We will follow further
instructions from the CBE when they evaluate the situation on
Saturday.”  The Central Bank of Egypt ordered banks and the country’s
stock exchange to close this week as violence spread between the
army-backed government and supporters of ousted President
Mohamed Mursi. Citigroup employs about 650 people across nine
branches in Egypt, according to Bell.  Egypt’s Muslim Brotherhood has led protests to reinstate
former Mursi, ousted by the military last month. The Health
Ministry today said the death toll rose to at least 525, with
more than 3,717 hurt, while the Brotherhood said the figure was
many times higher. The army-backed government has declared a
state of emergency and imposed a curfew.  Citigroup, in Egypt since 1975, offers consumer and
institutional banking services and has total third-party assets
of about $1.6 billion, according to a  quarterly filing . James Cowles is head of the bank’s operations in Europe, the Middle
East and  Africa , which posted a $1.65 billion profit for the
first half of 2013.  Currency Impact  The bank’s “net investment” in Egypt is about $250
million, Citigroup said in the filing. The firm built up
“translation losses” of about $100 million as a result of the
decline of the Egyptian pound against the U.S. dollar, the
filing shows.  HSBC Holdings Plc, Europe’s biggest bank, has also shut
locations across Egypt and is planning to reopen them on Sunday,
said Tim Doyne, a spokesman for the London-based lender. The
firm has had a presence in Egypt since 1982 and is one of the
biggest global banks operating in the country, according to its
website. The company has more than 75 branches and 2,300
employees there, according to an e-mailed statement.  “HSBC in Egypt treats the safety of its customers and its
employees as a priority,” Doyne said in an e-mail.  HSBC, led by CEO  Stuart Gulliver , identified Egypt as a
“priority growth market” in a semi-annual filing this month.
The bank had a lending exposure of more than $10 billion at the
end of June, more than half of which was to financial
institutions and corporations, the filing shows. The bank has
put in place “systemic crisis-management processes” to respond
to the crisis.  “The most material risk to our overall portfolio in Egypt
is the economic instability that would be caused by a further
significant deterioration in the security situation,” HSBC said
in the filing.  The lender made a $117 million profit in Egypt for the
first half of the year, compared with $137 million a year
earlier, according to the filing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donal Griffin in  New York  at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net ;
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  