-- Congo Lawmaker Will Ask President Kabila for Pardon, Lawyer Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 2013-08-15T13:14:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/congo-lawmaker-will-ask-president-kabila-for-pardon-lawyer-says.html
A  Democratic Republic  of Congo
lawmaker condemned to three years in prison for criticizing the
government’s role in the fighting in the east will ask President
 Joseph Kabila  for clemency, his lawyer said.  Congo’s  Supreme Judicial Court  sentenced National Assembly
member Muhindo Nzangi on Aug. 13 for endangering national
security with his remarks in an interview with Kivu One radio
station two days before. Nzangi, who’s from the eastern province
of North Kivu, told the broadcaster that the government bore
some responsibility for fighting in the province between rebels
and the army.  Because the decision came from Congo’s top court, Nzangi’s
only recourse is to ask for a presidential pardon, his lawyer,
Ruffin Lukoo, said today by phone from Kinshasa.  “It’s a very severe decision,” he said. “He’s been
condemned for talking. This is not democracy.”  Nzangi’s political party, the Social Movement for Renewal,
or MSR, announced yesterday it would suspend its participation
in the ruling coalition and in an upcoming national unity
conference on governance and security. The MSR is the second-largest party in the president’s alliance.  “We express our solidarity with our colleague from the
presidential majority, but this is the law,” government
spokesman  Lambert Mende  said by phone from Kinshasa. “We must
defend the independence of the court.”  Eastern Conflict  “The president can give a pardon and we’ll ask the
president and that’s the only legal way to address this,” Mende
said.  Eastern Congo has suffered more than 15 years of conflict
since the aftermath of the 1994  Rwandan genocide  spread across
the border. Last year, a group of former rebels defected from
the army and took temporary control of Goma, the capital of
mineral-rich North Kivu.  The rebel group, known as M23, is involved in peace talks
with the government in neighboring Uganda, while fighting
continues in North Kivu. Almost 1 million people have been
forced to flee their homes in the province, according to the
 United Nations .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Kavanagh in Kinshasa at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  