-- Consumer Comfort in U.S. Declines From More Than Five-Year High
-- B y   A l e x a n d r i a   B a c a
-- 2013-08-15T13:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/consumer-comfort-in-u-s-declines-from-more-than-five-year-high.html
Consumer confidence  cooled last week
from its highest level in more than five years as Americans’
views on the economy, personal finances and spending receded.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index fell to minus 26.6 for
the period ended Aug. 11, its first drop in four weeks. The
reading was the second-strongest since January 2008, behind the
prior week’s minus 23.5.  The decline illustrates that gains in confidence remain
fragile, and may be reversed should  interest rates  keep rising
or fuel costs jump. At the same time, rising property values and
stock prices are bolstering Americans’ personal wealth,
supporting  consumer spending , which accounts for 70 percent of
the world’s largest economy.  “Rising interest rates and a slower pace of job gains add
to concerns of households that are still facing, at best,
restrained job growth,” said  Joseph Brusuelas , a senior
economist at Bloomberg LP in  New York .  All three components of the comfort index weakened last
week, with the measure of  personal finances  falling to its
lowest level in more than two months. Nonetheless, the gauge has
been positive since mid-April.  Other reports today showed  jobless claims  last week dropped
to the lowest level in almost six years, consumer prices rose in
July for a third month and  manufacturing production  declined
last month.  Shares Fall  Stocks dropped today as the reports fueled speculation the
 Federal Reserve  will trim monthly asset purchases this year. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index declined 1 percent to 1,668.45 at
9:40 a.m. in New York.  The Bloomberg comfort  index (COMFCOMF)  has anticipated changes in
other measures of sentiment, reaching a five-year high in mid-April, a month before the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan
gauge. The Conference Board’s confidence  index  declined more
than forecast in July to 80.3 after reaching a five-year high of
82.1 a month earlier.  Consumers also had a less optimistic view of the state of
the economy last week, as the Bloomberg  measure  dropped to minus
47.2, the second-highest since January 2008, from minus 45.1 the
prior week.  The index of Americans’ views of their personal finances
declined to 3.2, the lowest since the period ended June 9, from
6.6. The measure has been positive for 18 consecutive weeks. A
gauge of the  buying climate  decreased for the first time in
three weeks to minus 35.8 from minus 32 as fewer consumers said
the time was right to buy needed items.  ‘Uneven’ Recovery  “So goes the pattern of recovery -- slow, weak and uneven,
but recovery,” said  Gary Langer , president of Langer Research
Associates LLC in New York, which produces the data for
Bloomberg.  Labor Department data earlier this month showed uneven
improvement in the job market as employers added fewer workers
than forecast in July, while the  jobless rate  fell to a four-year low as more Americans found part-time positions. Payrolls
rose by 162,000, the least in four months, and unemployment fell
to 7.4 percent from 7.6 percent.  Retail sales  increased in July for a fourth consecutive
month, climbing 0.2 percent following a 0.6 percent gain the
month prior, according to Commerce Department data earlier this
week.  Today’s figures showed consumers at the very top of the
income scale were becoming more exuberant. For households
earning  more than $100,000 , the index was positive for the 28th
straight week, jumping to 22.1, the highest since November 2007,
from 18.3 the prior period.  Lower Income  The measure for households earning  less than $15,000 
improved for a fourth week to reach minus 47.7, the highest
since March, from minus 53.1. At the same time, confidence
dropped among every other income group. For households earning
between  $15,000 and $25,000 , the index declined to minus 52.1
from minus 39.4.  Macy’s Inc., the second-largest U.S. department-store
chain, said a second-quarter profit that was weaker than
analysts expected signals a lack of momentum in the economy.  “Our performance in the period, in part, reflects
consumers’ continuing uncertainty about spending on
discretionary items in the current economic environment,” said
 Terry Lundgren , chief executive officer of the Cincinnati-based
company, in a statement yesterday.  Macy’s chief financial officer  Karen Hoguet  on an earnings
call yesterday said, “We believe that much of our weakness is
due to the health of the consumer and the fact that consumers
seem to be choosing to make purchases in non-department stores
categories such as cars, housing and home improvement.”  Gaps Widened  The gap in sentiment between renters and homeowners widened
last week, as did the one between full-time and part-time
workers. The index for  renters  declined for the first in five
weeks to minus 34.8 from minus 28.1. Confidence among  homeowners 
cooled after a one-week improvement to minus 21.9 from minus
20.5.  Sentiment among  full-time workers  fell to minus 15.1, the
lowest in two months, from minus 11.5 the week prior. The index
among those employed  part-time  decreased to minus 38.5, the
weakest in more than a month, from minus 27.9.  After reaching its highest level since January 2008,
confidence among  woman  declined to minus 36, erasing almost all
the previous week’s gains, from minus 29.9. The outlook among
men improved to minus 16.5, the second-highest since January
2008, from minus 16.6.  Survey Methodology  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index conducts telephone
surveys with a random sample of 1,000 consumers ages 18 and
older. Each week, 250 respondents are asked for their views on
the  U.S. economy , personal finances and buying climate. The
margin of error for the headline figure is 3 percentage points.
The percentage of negative responses is subtracted from the
share of positive views and divided by three. The most recent
reading is based on the average of responses over the previous
four weeks.  The comfort index can range from 100, indicating every
participant in the survey had a positive response to all three
components, to minus 100, signaling all views were negative.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexandria Baca in Washington at 
 abaca3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  