-- Telefonica, Vodafone May Face New Rivals in Czech Auction
-- B y   L e n k a   P o n i k e l s k a   a n d   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 2013-08-15T13:16:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/czech-telecom-office-starts-rerun-of-mobile-spectrum-auction.html
The Czech telecommunications
regulator called for bids in a rerun auction for mobile
frequencies that may allow a new market entrant and threaten
incumbent operators who have vowed to dispute the process.  The regulator, known as CTU, said the auction, which
includes frequencies that will enable providers to offer new 4G
mobile services, wants to raise at least 8.72 billion koruna
($449 million) in the auction, CTU deputy Chairman Marek Ebert
said today in Prague.  Telefonica  Czech Republic  AS, which competes with T-Mobile
Czech Republic AS and Vodafone Czech Republic AS, may face
potential newcomer PPF Mobile Services AS in a tender that CTU
canceled in March because it considered bids totaling more than
20 billion koruna “excessive.” Current operators complain the
auction rules for the new bidding favor the new competitor.  “The auction will be a milestone for a Czech telco
market,” Cyrrus AS analyst Tomas Mencik said by phone. “After
years, it may bring a new competition to the country and that’s
not what the current players are used to.”  Operators across the globe are rushing to build faster
networks based on Long Term Evolution, or LTE, technology that
will enable consumers to shop online and stream videos faster
and communicate better. After the Czech Republic’s March
failure, mobile providers cut tariffs that, according to the
Finnish consultancy Rewheel, had been the second highest in the
European Union.  Share Weakness  Shares in the Czech unit of  Spain ’s  Telefonica SA (TEF)  fell 2
percent today to 295.9 koruna by 2:40 p.m. in Prague, taking its
slump in the past 12 months to 27 percent. The stock touched the
lowest price since 2003 five weeks ago at 255.50 koruna.  CTU head Jaromir Novak said raising revenue will not be the
main goal of the auction. Rather, the regulator wants to allow
new operators into the market and to improve services. Some of
the incumbents have said they consider the rules unfair.  “I hope they will accept the invitation and will no longer
question the Czech Republic’s right to have modern services and
the effective use of frequencies and better competition in the
telecommunications market,” Novak said.  Potential bidders should submit applications by Sept. 30
and the actual bidding via electronic tender should start in
mid-November, CTU said. It said it expected to conclude the sale
by the end of the year. CTU made new rules setting aside two
blocks of 10 MHz in the 800 MHz band for new operators and two
15.8 MHz blocks in the 1,800 band range.  Bidders’ Battle  The watchdog also introduced a maximum cap of two blocks in
the 800 MHz bandwidth, the most crucial for building a
countrywide 4G network, for all players, meaning that if the
three incumbents and PPF take part, at least one would be left
out. The new auction may attract more bidders than just PPF, a
Czech financial group. It participated in the failed sale, CTU’s
Novak said on July 29, according to CTK.  Citigroup Inc. approached Novak last month to survey the
conditions for entering the Czech market on behalf of an unnamed
client, CTK reported. Prague-based Dial Telecom said it was
considering taking part, Hospodarske Noviny said on Aug. 12.  While the existing operators said they may not take part in
the auction under such conditions, PPF said the repeat auction
has to happen as fast as possible so it can participate.  Telefonica and Vodafone already have been deploying LTE
networks on existing frequencies in  Prague  and the second
largest Czech city Brno. The operators cut fees -- in some cases
by around half -- and offered their first-ever bundles of
unlimited data and voice services for clients in April, a month
after the first auction was canceled.  The new auction terms are “against our rights,”
Telefonica Chief Executive Officer Luis Malvido said on a
conference call with analysts on July 24. Telefonica plans to go
to court and to the European Commission, as some of the measures
lack substantiation, the executive said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lenka Ponikelska in Prague at 
 lponikelska1@bloomberg.net ;
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  