-- Dell Results Underscore Challenges Facing Turnaround Plan
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2013-08-16T00:31:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/dell-sales-profit-tops-estimates-ahead-of-buyout-vote.html
Dell Inc. (DELL)  reported results that
underscore the challenges facing the company amid a decline in
personal-computer sales, whatever the outcome of a vote next
month on Michael Dell’s $24.9 billion plan to go private.  Net income for the fiscal second quarter fell 72 percent to
$204 million, or 12 cents a share, from $732 million, or 42
cents, a year earlier. Revenue for the quarter ended Aug. 2 was
little changed at $14.5 billion. Analysts on average predicted
profit of $275 million on $14.2 billion in sales.  The plunge in earnings bolsters the case made by Chief
Executive Officer Dell and Silver Lake Management LLC that
shareholders should accept their proposal to restructure Dell as
a private company. While sales were helped by rising demand for
servers and networking gear, the deteriorating state of Dell’s
main business may deflate the case of billionaire activist
shareholder  Carl Icahn , who is arguing in Delaware court that he
should be allowed to appoint directors, in order to keep Dell
public and profit from his stake.  “They did surpass very low expectations but the year-over-year comparisons aren’t promising,” said  Jayson Noland , an
analyst at Robert W. Baird & Co. who rates the shares neutral,
the equivalent of a buy. “The PC market continues to trend
below expectations. It will play into Michael Dell’s plea to
take the company private.”  Dell Proposal  Shares of Dell were little changed in extended trading
after the report from $13.71 at the close in  New York . That’s
just below Dell and Silver Lake’s $13.75-a-share offer price,
indicating shareholders will back the leveraged buyout after a
special committee of Dell’s board accepted a sweetened offer by
the group two weeks ago.  Profit excluding some items was 25 cents a share, compared
with analysts’ average 24-cent estimate, Dell said in a
statement today.  Dell and  Silver Lake  are proposing a  dividend  of 13 cents a
share on top of an already-increased $13.75-a-share bid for the
computer maker to boost their odds of winning shareholder
support. They also said shareholders would receive an 8-cent-a-share third-quarter dividend regardless of when the deal closes.  Investors holding the stock as of Aug. 13 will now be
eligible to vote on the deal, and abstentions will no longer be
counted as votes against the deal, a key sticking point for Dell
and Silver Lake before the amended deal.  Shareholder Positions  Icahn is asking a Delaware judge to bar Dell, the third-largest PC maker, from setting a new shareholder record date; to
stop  Michael Dell  and his affiliates from voting any shares
acquired since Feb. 5, the day the deal was announced; to stop
the company from changing voting requirements; and to find that
the board breached its fiduciary duties.  Icahn held 156.5 million shares of Dell valued at more than
$2 billion as of Aug. 1, putting his stake of the company at 8.9
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Michael Dell
is the largest shareholder with 15.6 percent.  Dell’s investor base has shifted to a makeup that could
also boost Michael Dell’s bid. Hedge-fund managers almost
tripled their holdings of Dell in the second quarter, to 18
percent as of June 30 from 6.5 percent as of March 31, while
traditional mutual-fund firms cut their stakes, according to
holder reports filed as of yesterday with the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission.  “The certainty of Michael Dell and Silver Lake’s cash
offer is more compelling than the risk and reward of holding
equity and warrants with questionable value,”  Brian Marshall ,
an analyst at ISI Group, wrote in a note. “This quarter’s
results did little to change our view of Dell’s medium- or long-term prospects. The basic circumstances and choices remain
unchanged.”  PC Demand  Dell and other PC makers are being stung by a slump in
shipments, which have fallen for a fifth straight quarter.
Second-quarter shipments dropped 10.9 percent to 76 million,
according to market researcher Gartner Inc. Dell gets more than
half its sales from desktops, laptops and related products,
which are being replaced for many consumer and business uses by
tablet computers including  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad.  Dell’s end-user computing revenue, which includes PCs and
“thin client” computers for back-office workers, declined 5
percent to $9.1 billion. Sales in the  enterprise solutions 
group, which includes servers, storage and networking products,
rose 8 percent to $3.3 billion.  Corporate PC demand will probably pick up in the second
half, while consumer demand remains suppressed, Noland said.
 Lenovo Group Ltd. (992)  has also been aggressive on pricing and is
willing to lose money in markets outside of  China , increasing
competition for Dell, Noland said.  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) , the No. 2 PC maker, is scheduled to
report fiscal third-quarter earnings on Aug. 21.  Dell was originally scheduled to report earnings on Aug.
20, and moved its report up because of heightened interest in
the company, according to  David Frink , a spokesman for the
company. It issued no forecast for the third quarter, which ends
in November, and won’t hold a conference call for analysts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  