-- Deyaar Jumps to 16-Month High on Bets Stock Cheap: Dubai Mover
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2013-08-15T10:52:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/deyaar-jumps-to-16-month-high-on-bets-stock-cheap-dubai-mover.html
Deyaar Development PJSC (DEYAAR) , a builder
of homes and commercial towers in Dubai, climbed to the highest
level in more than 16 months as investors sought cheap
valuations amid a recovery in property prices in the emirate.  The  stock  rose 4.9 percent to 44.8 fils at the close in
Dubai, the highest since March 2012. About 117 million shares
traded, or 4.7 times the three-month  average . Deyaar was the
 most-traded  stock on the  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index (BGCC200)  and the biggest
 gainer  on Dubai’s benchmark gauge, which fell 0.6 percent.  Dubai’s property prices, which crashed more than 65 percent
from a peak in 2008, are recovering as the economy rebounds amid
an acceleration in tourism and retail trade. Deyaar trades at
0.7 times book value, compared to a multiple of 1.1 for  Emaar
Properties PJSC (EMAAR) , developer of the world’s tallest tower.  Rising property prices boosted Emaar’s valuations, while
those of Deyaar and  Union Properties PJSC (UPP) , another Dubai
developer, “have not seen the same interest and underperformed
the market significantly,” Amer Khan, a Dubai-based director at
Shuaa Asset Management, said by e-mail today. “It’s natural for
investors to rotate into the laggards eventually, and Deyaar is
a significant one.”  Deyaar’s shares have gained 27 percent  this year,  trailing
a rally of 65 percent for Emaar and compared with a gain of 5.1
percent for Union Properties, which is controlled by Dubai’s
biggest bank. Deyaar has been trading at a discount to Emaar
since April 2012, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Home Prices  Home prices in the Persian Gulf business and trading hub,
which is also home to the world’s biggest man-made island, have
climbed 28 percent on average in 2013, according to Cluttons
LLC. The emirate’s economy expanded 4.4 percent last year, the
fastest pace since 2007, government data show, boosted by an
upturn in domestic real estate sales.  Deyaar reported a 47 percent advance in second-quarter
 profit  to 27.3 million dirhams ($7.4 million) on Aug. 1. Two
analysts  recommend  investors hold the shares, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The stock “should certainly trade at a discount to Emaar,
but whether a nearly 40 percent discount is justified in a
market that is recovering with catalysts on the horizon warrants
careful consideration,” Shuaa’s Khan said. “Though challenges
do exist, the improvement in the real estate market and
sentiment in Dubai makes it easier for these challenges to be
addressed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  