-- The Missing Truth in the German Campaign
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-08-15T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/the-missing-truth-in-the-german-campaign.html
Germany’s election campaign is in
full swing now that  Chancellor Angela Merkel  is back from her
hiking vacation in the Alps. She’s way ahead in the polls and
likely to join the handful of European Union leaders who’ve won
re-election since Europe’s economy tanked. She’s maybe the only
one who dares ask voters, “Are you better off now than when I
took office?”  Amazingly, given the state of the rest of the euro area,
the answer is  yes : Germans have more jobs than in 2005. The
 unemployment rate  has roughly halved, to 5.4 percent; inflation
is low; and the  budget deficit  is close to zero. The news that
the  German economy  grew by 0.7 percent in the second quarter has
probably sealed her victory on Sept. 22. Now, the issue is less
whether she wins but how. And that’s a two-part question.  First, there’s the matter of parliamentary arithmetic: Will
the Free Democratic Party, which has partnered with Merkel’s
 Christian Democratic Union , cross the 5 percent vote threshold,
enabling the present  coalition  to continue? If not -- and it
might be close -- Merkel will have to find a new partner on the
left.  Second, and at least as important, how truthful does Merkel
intend to be about the choices facing her country? So far, she
hasn’t been straight at all, and her silence has forced an
unhealthy pre-election quiet in Europe’s debate about
stabilizing the euro area. The rest of the EU is in purdah,
waiting for Sept. 22 to pass, so that Merkel will be free to
change course and open Germany’s coffers.  There’s not much doubt about what needs to happen. Even the
fiscally conservative Bundesbank recognizes the problem,
according to an  article  in  Germany ’s Der Spiegel magazine this
week. In an unpublished paper, staff members say that to avoid
default  Greece  will need new debt relief -- on top of the more
than 200 billion euros it has already been lent.  Portugal  may
need another bailout as well, and the outlook for  Spain  remains
uncertain.  Merkel continues to sidestep these issues, saying that a
further Greek bailout isn’t on the agenda. Any forgiveness of
debt would inflict a loss on German taxpayers, which would be
unpopular -- but there’s no plausible alternative. A full-bore
resumption of the euro crisis would hurt Germany even more.  Peer Steinbrueck , Merkel’s challenger from the left, laid out in an
interview with  Bloomberg News  this week how he plans to hammer
home that Merkel isn’t telling voters the truth.  Steinbrueck warns that Merkel’s austerity has created a
rift in  Europe  and dangerous resentment against Germany.
“Merkel is lulling the voters, she isn’t challenging them,” he
said, calling for economic stimulus in Germany and a mini-Marshall  Plan  for the euro area. It may be bad tactics, but on
these aspects of policy (though not on others), he’s mostly
right.  It would be naive to expect Merkel to be completely honest.
How many politicians tell inconvenient truths just before a
vote? To her credit, Merkel hasn’t made pledges that would stop
her from changing policy after the election. Still, Germans need
a franker discussion of their situation than the comforting
homilies about thrift she delivers on the campaign trail. They
need to hear that exporting their savings to the rest of the
euro area contributed to the crisis; that the bailouts are
helping German banks as much as the recipient countries; and
that if Germans want to keep the euro and repair the European
Union, they will have to write down loans.  Merkel looks set to win. To deserve that victory, she ought
to risk a little more honesty.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 