-- Teddy Bearish Mammal Is First Carnivore Find in 35 Years
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-08-15T16:45:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/teddy-bearish-mammal-is-first-carnivore-find-in-35-years.html
It looks like a mix between a cat
and a teddy bear, lives in the high cloud forest of the Andes
mountains and is the first new carnivore found in the Western
Hemisphere in 35 years.  Smithsonian Institution  scientists in  Washington  today
called the olinguito a “major discovery” that was overlooked
for decades despite a specimen sitting in the cabinets of a
Chicago museum. Weighing about 2 pounds (0.91 kilograms), the
olinguito is part of a family of animals related to raccoons.  “The olinguito shows us that the world is not yet
completely explored, its most basic secrets not yet revealed,”
Kristofer Helgen, the curator of mammals at the Smithsonian’s
National Museum of Natural History who led the expedition to
track down the animal, said in a statement. “If new carnivores
can still be found, what other surprises await us?”  While discoveries of new plants or insects are relatively
common, finding new mammals is less likely and identifying new
carnivores is “incredibly rare” in this century, said the
researchers. In 2010, scientists in Madagascar discovered the
Durrell’s vontsira, another small carnivore.  “Carnivore species aren’t described very often,” Robert
Voss, a curator in the division of mammalogy at the  American
Museum of Natural History  in  New York , said in a telephone
interview. “Most of the new discoveries are of very small
species, they’re either shrews or rodents or bats.”  Thicker Coat  There have been olinguito samples in the possession of
researchers for 100 years. Those specimens though, had never
been identified as a separate species until this year.  The discovery process started from a 10-year-long study of
existing olingo species, which are carnivores that live in trees
and are closely related to the new animal. While looking at
museum specimens, researchers found a group that had different
skulls and teeth, and a thicker coat. The specimens had also
been found above 5,000 feet in the western slopes of the Andes
mountains of  South America .  “The data from the old specimens gave us an idea of where
to look, but it still seemed like a shot in the dark,” Roland
Kays, director of the Biodiversity and Earth Observation Lab at
the  North Carolina Museum of Natural Sciences  said in the
statement.  Identifying a new species that already had samples
collected is increasingly common, especially with genetic tools
now available to help run tests. “At least half of the new
species of mammals that are being described there were specimens
in museum collections,” said Voss. “It speaks to the
importance of museums as archives of the world’s biodiversity.”  Cloud Forest  The olinguito’s scientific name is Bassaricyon neblina and
lives in the high-altitude jungles in Ecuador and  Colombia ,
which are home to a wide variety of species. Its range may
extend into Peru and  Venezuela , according to the researchers.  Places like the Andean cloud forests are likely spots to
find new species because of their isolation, Voss said.  “There are regions that have been isolated from other
regions a long time, so they develop their own peculiar flora
and fauna,” he said. “The classic example of that is
Madagascar. But there are islands within continents, isolated by
physical barriers, or also ecological barriers.”  In the Andes, the cloud forests have cool temperatures at
high altitude, surrounded by hot, wet jungle below. Animals
there can be cut off by those drastically different climates and
left to gradually evolve into distinct species.  Ensuring Conservation  “The other thing about the Andean cloud forest is that
they’re still very poorly explored,” Voss said. “They’re on
steep slopes, very dense, they’re difficult places to work.”  A video clip from a researcher in  Ecuador  suggested that
there were still living olinguitos. Helgen and Kays were able to
find the animal and study its behavior during a three-week
expedition to South America. While the olinguito is a carnivore,
it eats mostly fruit, lives in the trees, and is most active at
night.  “This is a beautiful animal, but we know so little about
it,” Helgen said. “How many countries does it live in? What
else can we learn about its behavior? What do we need to do to
ensure its conservation?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in New York at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  