-- Hedge-Fund Industry’s Dell Stake Tripled in Last Quarter
-- B y   M i l e s   W e i s s
-- 2013-08-15T20:33:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/hedge-fund-industry-s-dell-stake-tripled-in-last-quarter.html
Hedge-fund managers almost tripled
their holdings of  Dell Inc. (DELL)  common shares in the second quarter
while traditional mutual-fund firms cut their stakes in the
computer maker, a trend that could boost Michael Dell’s bid to
take his company private.  Money managers classified as  hedge funds  increased their
portion of Dell’s 1.78 billion shares outstanding to 18 percent
as of June 30 from 6.5 percent as of March 31, according to
holder reports filed as of yesterday with the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission. Elliott Management Corp., the hedge-fund firm founded by  Paul Singer , bought almost 22 million
shares during the period, and Abrams Capital Management LP, a
Boston-based firm run by David Abrams, purchased 15 million.  In sweetening his $24.9 billion buyout offer earlier this
month,  Michael Dell  persuaded the PC maker’s board to allow
investors who bought company stock after June 3, the original
cutoff date for determining share ownership, to vote on the
deal. The modification favors Michael Dell because many of his
company’s newer hedge-fund shareholders may be seeking to pocket
short-term gains through arbitrage bets that will be more
profitable if the proposed buyout is approved.  “The assumption is that these hedge funds are not
interested in the long-term value of the company,” said Brian
Matt, director of data strategy and analytics at Ipreo, a New
York-based market intelligence firm. “These are pretty big
stakes” for some of the hedge funds, so a large part of their
returns will be based on the buyout’s outcome.  Original Opposition  When Michael Dell originally announced his offer to take
the company private for $13.65 a share in February, some of the
firm’s largest  investors , including Southeastern Asset
Management Inc. and T. Rowe Price Group Inc., lined up against
the deal, with Southeastern saying the  Round Rock , Texas-based
company’s value was closer to $24 a share. Activist  Carl Icahn 
entered the fray in March with a competing  proposal  that would
permit some Dell shares to remain publicly traded.  Since then, Michael Dell has raised his offer by 23 cents a
share to $13.88 each, a boost for those who bought the stock in
June, when it traded at an average of about $13.41, according to
trading data compiled by Bloomberg. Risk arbitragers buy stocks
in companies that are being taken over after the deals are
announced, seeking to capture the spread between the buyout
offer and the market price. This size of this spread is
typically based on the uncertainty surrounding completion of a
deal.  Dell fell 0.1 percent today to close at $13.71 in  New York .  Thermo Fisher  Hedge-fund managers disclosed in Form 13Fs that were due
yesterday that they bought 199 million Dell shares on a combined
basis in the second quarter. Hedge funds held 314.8 million Dell
shares with a market value of $4.2 billion as of June 30, a
$2.55 billion increase from the end of March, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg from the quarterly holdings reports.  The dollar-based increase in Dell shares was the second-largest jump in hedge-fund holdings of a public company during
the period. Hedge-fund ownership of shares in Thermo Fisher
Scientific Inc. jumped by $3.5 billion to $5.4 billion,
according to 13F data compiled by Bloomberg.  Money managers who oversee more than $100 million in
equities must file a Form 13F within 45 days of each quarter’s
end to list their U.S.-traded stocks, options and convertible
bonds. The filings don’t show non-U.S. securities or how much
cash the firms hold.  Elliott Management  Elliott Management, a New York-based firm that had $21.6
billion in net assets at year-end, and Abrams, which had about
$6 billion under management, both bought their entire stakes
during the second quarter, according to Form 13Fs they filed
yesterday. Neither David Abrams nor  Peter Truell , an Elliott
spokesman, returned requests for comment.  Pentwater Capital Management LP, a Chicago-based firm that
purchased 9.98 million Dell shares in the first quarter, more
than doubled its stake to 22.4 million shares as of June 30,
according to a Form 13F filed yesterday. Matthew Halbower,
Pentwater’s chief executive officer, declined to comment on the
filing.  Hedge-fund firms such as Pentwater and Dallas-based Carlson
Capital LP, which bought 2.7 million Dell shares in the second
quarter, typically hold their investments for six to eight
months, according to Matt at Ipreo. Elliott’s average holding
period for investments tends to be more than a year, Matt said.  Under the original terms of the buyout deal, these
investors might not have qualified to vote on the transaction,
given that the record date for share ownership in order to cast
a ballot had been set as June 3. In the sweetened agreement, the
computer company’s board agreed to extend the record date to
Aug. 13, allowing investors who bought during July and earlier
this month to also participate in the voting.  Mutual Funds  Several of the mutual-fund managers that have long held
investments in Dell cut their stakes during the second quarter.
Investment advisers that run traditional  mutual funds  and
separate accounts for outside clients, as opposed to hedge or
private-equity funds, sold a net 216 million Dell shares,
reducing their holdings to 726.7 million shares.  T. Rowe Price, based in Baltimore, sold 16.7 million
shares, reducing its aggregate stake to 55.2 million shares as
of June 30. The T. Rowe Price Value Fund sold all 5.3 million
shares that it had held, according to data collected by
Bloomberg. Mark Finn, the portfolio manager for the value fund,
declined to comment on the stock.  Dodge & Cox, based in  San Francisco , sold 16.2 million
shares, including 9.8 million held by the $49 billion Dodge &
Cox Stock Fund. According to regulatory filings, the stock fund
acquired about 14.3 million Dell shares during the second
quarter of 2012. Wendell Birkhofer, a portfolio manager for the
fund, declined to comment.  The aggregate data for hedge funds is based on 803 Form 13F
filings. Some firms haven’t filed second-quarter reports yet.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Miles Weiss in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  