-- Egyptians Must ’Step Up’ to Halt Violence, Pimco’s El-Erian Says
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2013-08-15T16:07:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/egyptians-must-step-up-to-halt-violence-pimco-s-el-erian-says.html
Any hope for political
reconciliation in  Egypt  and a halt to the worst violence the
country has seen since its 2011 uprising must come from its own
leaders, according to Mohamed El-Erian, chief executive officer
of Pacific Investment Management Co.  “What you are seeing is the dark side of the political
awakening and what has followed,” Pimco Chief Executive Officer
El-Erian, the son of a former Egyptian diplomat, said in a radio
interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene . “It’s
very important for people inside Egypt to step up. This is not a
situation where people from the outside can come in.”  The death toll from a crackdown by Egypt’s army-backed
government on protests by supporters of the ousted president,
Mohamed Mursi, rose to more than 500. Members of the country’s
Muslim Brotherhood torched government buildings and called for
nationwide rallies. President  Hosni Mubarak  was deposed in the
2011 revolution, and the army removed Mursi, an Islamist, from
office July 3. Diplomatic efforts by the U.S. to persuade the
interim government to seek a peaceful resolution have failed.  The confluence of a weak economy, weak political
institutions and growing polarization within Egyptian society is
fueling the country’s unrest, said El-Erian, a former official
at the  International Monetary Fund .  No ‘Anchors’  “Nations need anchors, and Egypt is having problems
because there are no institutions to anchor the process,” the
official at  Newport Beach , California-based Pimco said. “The
immediate future is a very uncertain one.”  Pimco is the world’s biggest manager of bond mutual funds.  El-Erian, who’s fluent in English, French and Arabic, was
named head of the U.S. global development council in 2012,
created to advise the president on ways to promote economic
development and good governance in countries all over the world.
He said he hasn’t been called on “recently” to serve in Egypt.  “The Egyptians have to find a way to get over what is a
very tragic, dangerous and sad situation,” El-Erian said. For
the U.S., he said, “there is a role to be played, but it’s a
role where you inform and influence and not a role where you can
dictate. That has to come from within Egypt.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in  New York  at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  