-- Ellie Mae 26% Bump Seen as Tech Meets Housing: Real M&A
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2013-08-15T14:09:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/ellie-mae-26-bump-seen-as-tech-meets-housing-real-m-a.html
Ellie Mae Inc. (ELLI) , the provider of
software used by mortgage lenders to make home loans, could
still reward shareholders with a 26 percent gain after  surging 
to a record last week.  The company, which grew from a startup in the  San Francisco 
Bay area to an $796 million provider of technology used in
processing one-third of all U.S. residential mortgages, is
considering a sale and may begin soliciting bids in the next two
months, people with knowledge of the matter told  Bloomberg News 
last week. Investors including Jacob Asset Management LLC said
Ellie Mae warrants a higher stock price than its $30.07 a share
yesterday, and acquirers may be willing to pay up to get a hold
of its growth prospects.  As the U.S. housing recovery strengthens, Pleasanton,
California-based Ellie Mae is projected to boost annual revenue
at twice the median pace of similar-sized software companies,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Ellie Mae could sell
itself to larger software vendors such as International Business
Machines Corp. or  Accenture Plc (ACN)  for $35 a share, Oppenheimer
Holdings Inc. said. Maxim Group LLC sees bids up to $38, a 26
percent premium.  “It’s really a standout among the group, and I don’t think
some of that is realized at the current price,” said David Covas, a Lisle, Illinois-based money manager at Oberweis Asset
Management Inc., which oversees $800 million including Ellie Mae
shares. “There’s some scarcity value here as well. Anybody in
the space might be looking at them.”  Cloud-Based Tools  An external representative for Ellie Mae said the company
doesn’t comment on speculation. Sig Anderman, the chairman and
chief executive officer, didn’t return a phone message left for
his assistant.  Ellie Mae’s cloud-based technology is used to process and
 fund (JAMFX)  about one in every three home loans made in the U.S.,
Anderman said Aug. 6 at a conference. He co-founded Ellie Mae in
1997, and prior to that helped to start at least two other
technology-related businesses tied to the housing industry,
according to the company’s  website .  Ellie Mae, whose customers are primarily mortgage lenders,
is benefitting as the revival in U.S. housing gains steam.
Prices for single-family homes climbed in 87 percent of U.S.
cities in the second quarter, according to the National
Association of Realtors.  Faster Growth  Earlier this month, Ellie Mae raised its annual revenue
 forecast  to as much as $132.5 million, a 30 percent increase
from last year. It’s projected by analysts to have a compound
annual growth rate of 19 percent over the next three years,
compared with the median rate of just 9.5 percent among U.S.
software companies with market values between $500 million and
$1 billion, revenue estimates compiled by Bloomberg show.  The company is also cheaper than most of its software
peers. Its price-earnings  ratio  yesterday was about 48, a 72
percent discount to the group’s median multiple, the data show.  “The stock is cheap relative to their growth and the
opportunity in front of them,” Greg Dunn, a  fund manager  at
Thornburg Investment Management Inc., said in a phone interview
from  Santa Fe ,  New Mexico . “The housing market is improving and
that’s a tailwind for them.”  Thornburg oversees $90 billion, including Ellie Mae shares.  There are some naysayers.  Short interest  in the stock
reached an all-time high of 11 percent of its outstanding shares
this month, according to Markit. By comparison, the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index has an average short interest level of 2.3
percent, Markit data show.  Mostly Bullish  Even so, most analysts are bullish, with nine of 10
recommending that investors buy the stock, according to  data 
compiled by Bloomberg. Their average share-price estimate for
Ellie Mae as a standalone entity is $34.29.  Using revenue multiples paid in comparable software
acquisitions, Ellie Mae should be valued at as much as $38 a
share in a takeover, Brad Sills, a San Francisco-based analyst
at Maxim Group, wrote in a report Aug. 9.  Today, Ellie Mae shares fell 2.2 percent to $29.41 at 10:05
a.m.  New York  time.  Brian Schwartz, an analyst at Oppenheimer in San Francisco,
pegs Ellie Mae’s sale value at $35 a share or more.  IBM (IBM)  and
Accenture are among companies that may be interested in buying
Ellie Mae, Schwartz said. Dublin-based Accenture purchased
Mortgage Cadence, another maker of loan origination software,
for an undisclosed amount last month.  Software Shift  Ellie Mae would give a technology provider “another part
of the bank that they can sell their software solutions to,”
Raghavan Sarathy, a San Francisco-based analyst at Dougherty &
Co., said in a phone interview. He also sees  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  as a
logical suitor. The  Redwood City , California-based company and
some of its rivals have been shifting toward subscription-based
online software -- or cloud software, like Ellie Mae’s -- rather
than programs installed on customers’ machines.  James Sciales, a spokesman at Armonk, New York-based IBM,
and Peter Soh of Accenture said the companies don’t comment on
speculation, when asked whether they’re considering an
acquisition of Ellie Mae.  Deborah Hellinger , a spokeswoman at
Oracle, didn’t immediately return a phone call or e-mail seeking
comment.  With no debt and $71 million of cash and marketable
securities, Ellie Mae’s  enterprise value  is just $725 million,
making it an easily digestible takeover target,  Ryan Jacob , Los
Angeles-based chief investment officer of Jacob Asset
Management, said.  ‘Dominant Player’  “The idea that someone would want to buy Ellie Mae is not
terribly surprising to us,” Jacob, who owns the stock in his
Jacob Internet Fund, said in a phone interview. “They are the
leader now and quickly becoming a dominant player in mortgage
originations.”  Thornburg’s Dunn said Ellie Mae is performing well as an
independent company and doesn’t need to sell itself right now.
Ellie Mae is up 401 percent since it first sold shares to the
public in April 2011, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  While Oppenheimer’s Schwartz said Ellie Mae would probably
garner a higher takeover price down the road when it becomes
larger and more  profitable , the “insatiable demand” for fast-growing cloud companies makes selling now an attractive option.  “Ellie Mae is one of the fastest growing businesses that I
follow in the software space,” Schwartz said. “There certainly
is high demand right now for their type of technology. It could
be the right time for them to sell.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Brooke Sutherland in New York at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  