-- Temasek Sold Stake in Cheniere After Share Price Tripled
-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 2013-08-15T01:57:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/temasek-sold-stake-in-cheniere-after-share-price-tripled.html
Temasek Holdings Pte,  Singapore ’s
state-owned investment firm, sold its stake in  Cheniere Energy
Inc. (LNG)  after shares of the U.S. natural gas importer surged.  Temasek sold 9.2 million shares of the Houston-based
company directly or through its units in the second quarter,
valuing the stake at $257 million, according to a filing
yesterday with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Shares in the U.S. energy company gained as much as 200
percent by the end of the second quarter after Temasek announced
in May 2012 that it would spend about $468 million on an equity
investment in Cheniere together with RRJ Capital.  “The shares had a decent run over the past year,” said
Enrico Soddu, an analyst at the London-based Institutional
Investor’s Sovereign Wealth Center. “Temasek just seized the
opportunity to make a solid profit.”  Tan Yong Meng, a Temasek spokesman, confirmed the filing
and declined to comment further.  Money managers who oversee more than $100 million in
equities must file a Form 13F with the SEC within 45 days of
each quarter’s end to show their U.S.-listed stocks, options and
convertible bonds. The filings don’t show non-U.S. securities or
how much cash the firms hold.  Temasek bought 15.5 million shares in Cheniere during the
second quarter of 2012 for $228 million, according to previous
SEC filings. The company increased its holdings to 18.3 million
shares in the third quarter and halved its position during the
first quarter this year.  Energy, Resources  Investments in energy and resources made up 6 percent of
the Southeast Asian investment company’s portfolio on March 31,
unchanged from the previous year, according to its latest annual
report published last month.  Temasek also bought 180,547 shares in  Mosaic Co. (MOS) , the
second-largest North American potash producer, maintaining its
position as its biggest shareholder with a stake of 6.6 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The investment firm
also acquired 867,727 stocks in  Monsanto Co. (MON) , the world’s
largest seed company, increasing its holdings to 0.3 percent,
according to the data.  Temasek, wholly owned by Singapore’s Ministry of Finance,
is the 10th-biggest state investment company, according to the 
 Sovereign Wealth Fund Institute  website. The world’s biggest 
is  Norway ’s Government Pension Fund Global, while Singapore’s 
state fund GIC Pte is the eighth-biggest, according to the
institute estimates.  The share of assets denominated in U.S. dollars in
Temasek’s portfolio declined to 6 percent as of March 31 from 7
percent in the previous year, according to last month’s report.  The city-state’s asset manager also made a new investment
in semiconductor company  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) , according to the filing.
Temasek bought 5.6 million shares, equivalent to a stake of 0.33
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Temasek reduced its holdings in  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  by about two
thirds to 11,800 shares and kept its stake in  Facebook Inc. (FB) ,
owner of the world’s most popular social-networking service,
unchanged at 4.3 million shares, according to the SEC filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Klaus Wille in Singapore at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  