-- Emerging Stocks Tumble on Stimulus Outlook Led by Russia
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v ,   J u l i a   L e i t e   a n d   J e s s i c a   S u m m e r s
-- 2013-08-15T23:29:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/emerging-stocks-decline-after-five-day-advance-robina-slides.html
Emerging-market stocks declined for
the first time in six days, led by Russian shares, as improving
U.S. economic reports increased prospects for less stimulus.
Egyptian bond yields surged to a five-week high amid a
government crackdown on protesters that left hundreds dead.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index retreated 0.8 percent to
960.48. The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  capped the biggest decrease in two
months as OAO Gazprom,  Russia ’s natural-gas export monopoly,
tumbled 2.6 percent, while Brazilian oil company OGX Petroleo e
Gas Participacoes SA tumbled 7.4 percent in  Sao Paulo . The yield
on  Egypt ’s dollar bond due April 2020 advanced to 9 percent.
 Mexico ’s peso extended a five-day drop to 1.7 percent.  Stocks joined a global slump after data showed U.S. jobless
claims dropped to the lowest level in almost six years and
manufacturing in the Philadelphia region expanded, bolstering
speculation the  Federal Reserve  will reduce stimulus. U.S.
policy makers have said they will continue the bond-buying
program until the labor market has improved “substantially.”  “Good jobless claims numbers are bad news for people that
want stimulus to continue,”  Matthew Kaufler , a portfolio
manager at Federated Investors Inc. in Rochester, New York, said
by phone. His firm oversees $363.8 billion. “It’s something the
Fed clearly tracks, and it would give some impetus toward the
side of tapering sooner rather than later.”  All  10 groups  in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index slumped
today, led by health-care and commodity companies. The broad
measure dropped 9 percent this year, compared with a 13 percent
surge in the MSCI World Index. The  gauge  of developing nations
is trading at 10.1 times estimated earnings, below the valuation
of developed markets of 13.7.  Emerging ETF  The  iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index  exchange-traded
fund retreated 1.2 percent to $39.64. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
surged 5.4 percent to 23.10.  Most Brazilian stocks fell as speculation that the
government will raise fuel prices stoked concern that policy
makers may speed up the pace of interest-rate increases even as
economic growth falters. OGX tumbled after it said cash reserves
plunged 72 percent in the second quarter.  The Micex Index lost 2.3 percent, the most among major
developing-nation gauges, as Gazprom posted the biggest drop in
two months. OAO Sberbank, Russia’s largest lender, dropped 2.5
percent. Benchmark gauges in  Turkey (XU100) ,  Hungary  and the Czech
republic retreated more than 1.1 percent.  Chinese Stocks  China’s stocks fell, dragging the  benchmark index  down the
most in two weeks, as drugmakers slid amid the start of a
corruption probe. Jiangsu Hengrui Medicine Co. and Beijing SL
Pharmaceutical Co. sank more than 5 percent. Regulators will
crack down on illegal competition and bribery in drug sales and
medical services, the official Xinhua News Agency reported.  Egypt’s benchmark government bonds slumped for a second
day. The yield on the 5.75 percent notes maturing in April 2020
rose 22 basis points at 9:05 p.m. in Cairo to the highest on a
closing basis since July 9.  The premium investors demand to own emerging-market debt
over U.S. Treasuries slid 0.01 percentage point to 321 basis
points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net ;
Jessica Summers in New York at 
 jsummers17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  