-- Lenovo Seeking Acquisitions in PCs and Phones, CEO Yang Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-15T02:59:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/lenovo-seeking-acquisitions-in-pcs-and-phones-ceo-yang-says.html
Lenovo Group Ltd. (992) , the world’s
largest maker of personal computers, said it’s looking for
acquisitions in PCs and smartphones as expanding share for those
products boosted quarterly profit 23 percent.  “We are definitely seeking opportunities in both the PC
and phone areas,” Lenovo Chief Executive Officer Yang Yuanqing
said in a phone interview today. “The industry is in a period
of consolidation, so we definitely should take the opportunity
if we can find the right target.”  Lenovo will be more “proactive” on acquisitions, Yang
said, declining to name specific targets. Lenovo was in talks to
buy part of  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) ’s server
division until the two sides couldn’t agree on a price, a person
familiar with the discussions said in May. BlackBerry Ltd. said
it will consider takeover bids after almost a year of advisers
unsuccessfully canvassing potential buyers. Yang declined to
comment on whether the company would be interested in either IBM
or BlackBerry assets.  “Lenovo has come close a couple times already this year to
a big acquisition,” Stephen Yang, a Hong Kong-based analyst
with Sun Hung Kai Financial Ltd., said in an e-mail today. “We
do believe something will happen this year.”  Lenovo’s Chief Financial Officer Wong Wai Ming said in
January the company was assessing potential acquisition targets
and strategic alliances, including a deal with BlackBerry. The
company, which has headquarters in Beijing and Morrisville,
 North Carolina , said in March there hadn’t been any specific
evaluation of BlackBerry as a target.  “I believe that Lenovo may potentially explore either an
acquisition of BlackBerry or form a joint venture with the
company,” Jean-Louis Lafayeedney, an analyst at JI  Asia  in  Hong
Kong , said in an e-mail today. “BlackBerry holds a significant
amount of IP which Lenovo may need as it ramps up sales of smart
devices outside of  China , and in particular in the developed
markets.”  Lenovo’s Yang is weathering the global slump in PC demand
by developing mobile devices to lure customers from  Apple Inc. (AAPL) 
and Samsung Electronics Co. Smartphone shipments by Lenovo more
than doubled in the three months ended June from a year earlier
to a record 11.4 million units, the company said today.  Net income  climbed 23 percent to $173.9 million in the
three months ended June from $141.4 million a year earlier,
Lenovo said in a statement today. That exceeded the $167 million
average of 10 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  