-- Erdemir Drops Most in 3 Weeks as Chairman Quits: Istanbul Mover
-- B y   T a y l a n   B i l g i c
-- 2013-08-15T14:56:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/erdemir-drops-most-in-3-weeks-as-chairman-quits-istanbul-mover.html
Eregli Demir ve Celik Fabrikalari
TAS  declined the most in more than three weeks after the
chairman of Turkey’s biggest steelmaker resigned.  Shares of the company known as Erdemir  fell  2.3 percent,
the steepest drop since July 22, to 2.12 liras at the close in
Istanbul. About 21.6 million shares traded, or 77 percent of the
three-month average. The benchmark  Borsa Istanbul National 100 (XU100) 
index lost 2.1 percent in the first decrease this week.  Fatih Osman Tar stepped down as chairman of Zonguldak-based
Erdemir and its two units, the company said yesterday. The
resignation was a “professional decision” and didn’t reflect
an “extraordinary situation,” Erdemir’s investor relations
department said in an e-mail today.  “Such surprise developments create a negative perception
among investors,” Umut Ozturk, an analyst at Burgan Securities
in Istanbul, said by phone. “Investors might be pondering why
he took such a decision. I see this as a temporary decline.”  The stock has dropped 2 percent this year, compared with a
decline of 5.4 percent for the benchmark. Erdemir  may report  a
40 percent increase in second-quarter profit to 114 million
liras ($59 million)  tomorrow , according to the average estimate
of 11 analysts on Bloomberg. Net income for the first three
months of the year exceeded expectations in May.  The shares trade at 10 times  estimated  12-month earnings,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. That compares with 6.3 times
for  Turkey ’s  Kardemir Karabuk Demir Celik Sanayi ve Ticaret AS (KRDMD) ,
another steel producer, and 10.7 times for  Egypt ’s Ezz Steel,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Seven analysts  recommend  investors buy the shares of
Erdemir, while 14, including Ozturk, recommend holding the stock
and three say sell, the data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Taylan Bilgic in Istanbul at 
 tbilgic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  