-- Merkel Says EU Debt Crisis Isn’t Over in Election Rally Speech
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   A r n e   D e l f s
-- 2013-08-15T17:21:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/merkel-says-eu-debt-crisis-isn-t-over-in-election-rally-speech.html
Chancellor Angela Merkel  said the
 European debt crisis  hasn’t been overcome as she repeated in a
speech in northern Germany that governments should cut debt.  Speaking at a rally in the Baltic  port  city of Luebeck,
Merkel at one point referred to the “grave” debt crisis in the
past tense. That prompted a man in the back of the crowd in the
city’s market square to shout that the crisis is still on.  “Right, the euro crisis is not over,” Merkel said after
pausing and peering into the crowd of about 3,000. “But we’ve
already done a few things so that we’ll get through the
crisis.”  Merkel continued on the campaign trail less than six weeks
before the Sept. 22 election as she buttressed her  poll lead 
over the opposition Social Democrats. A day after she opened her
campaign tour with a warning about the perils of excessive debt,
the chancellor reiterated her pledge not to raise taxes and to
be the most trustworthy guardian of Germany’s labor market.  Merkel’s Christian Democratic-led bloc maintained a 17-point lead over the Social Democratic candidate  Peer Steinbrueck , according to an  Infratest survey  published today.
The poll showed that Merkel would have enough to maintain a
majority for her coalition with the Free Democratic Party if
these results are replicated on election day.  Unlike her first campaign appearance yesterday in the
Hessian city of Seligenstadt, where she struggled to speak over
a group of chanting hecklers from the Social Democrats’ youth
wing, Merkel didn’t face any sustained protests.  “We need to stop living off of borrowed money, spending
more than we take in,” Merkel said. She was scheduled to make a
second stop in the western city of Bremen later in the day.  Merkel also took aim at the opposition Green party for
proposing a mandatory meat-free or “ veggie ” day in German
schools and public sector cafeterias. The Greens slid one point
in the poll to 12 percent.  “Do you need a recommendation when you’re allowed to eat
meat and when not? You won’t get that from us,” Merkel said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Arne Delfs in Luebeck,  Germany  at 
 adelfs@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  