-- Metso Must Boost Capital Structure to Avoid Downgrade at Moody’s
-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 2013-08-15T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/metso-must-boost-capital-structure-to-avoid-downgrade-at-moody-s.html
Metso Oyj (MEO1V) , the Finnish maker of rock
crushers that’s spinning off its paper and pulp machine unit
into Valmet Oyj, faces a ratings downgrade unless it improves
its capital structure, Moody’s Investors Service said.  Metso’s Baa2  credit grade , the second-lowest investment
grade, was placed under review by Moody’s in March after the
plan to split its business was announced.  “If we were to keep the rating where it is, it would be
weakly positioned in the rating category with limited cushion
for weaker-than-expected performance,” Matthias Hellstern, a
managing director at Moody’s in  Frankfurt , said in an interview.
“So it would require Metso to improve the capital structure
over time.”  Metso will focus on mining, construction and automation
after splitting off paper, pulp and power businesses. Gross  debt 
at Metso’s remaining units was 1.1 billion euros ($1.46 billion)
as of March 31. Its gearing, or debt-to-equity, was about 31
percent, compared with about 14 percent for the group before the
split. Valmet’s assets will exceed its debt. The units remaining
with Metso had an operating profit margin of more than 11
percent of net sales last year while its paper, pulp and power
business achieved a 4.9 percent margin.  “Following the spinoff of Valmet, Metso’s portfolio will
be less balanced because paper business has different drivers
than mining,” Hellstern said. “On the other hand, they’re
losing the weaker part.”  Mining Cools  A cooling mining boom, led by slowing growth in  China , the
biggest consumer of commodities, is prompting miners to trim
spending globally to halt a profit squeeze. Rio Tinto Group, the
world’s second-biggest mining company, is seeking to sell assets
and reduce $5 billion in costs.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the biggest
miner, is targeting an 18 percent cut in  capital spending  over
the 12 months through June.  “If the  mining industry  starts suffering and reduces its
capital expenditure, we expect that this will have an immediate
effect on Metso,” Hellstern said. He didn’t specify when the
review will be completed.  Standard & Poor’s rates Metso BBB with a stable outlook.
Metso bondholders in June approved the compensation offered and
an extraordinary shareholders meeting will convene on Oct. 1 to
decide on the spinoff, due to take place at the start of the
year.  “If we believe that it’s becoming more challenging or
takes longer for Metso to get to the capital structure that we
would like to see for Baa2, taking into account lower
diversification, then we would probably have to downgrade them
to Baa3,” Hellstern said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  