-- EU Sanctions Risk Higher Yields for Faroes
-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 2013-08-16T14:33:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/eu-sanctions-risk-higher-yields-for-faroes-struggling-with-debt.html
The Faroe Islands’ fight with the
European Union over herring could spell higher borrowing costs
as the 49,000-person North Atlantic archipelago struggles to cut
deficits.  Moody’s Investors Service this week placed the Aa3 rating
of the self-governing Danish territory on review for a downgrade
following last month’s EU vote to impose sanctions after a
dispute over herring fishing.  The spat started after the Faroe Islands more than tripled
an annual quota from the Atlanto-Scandian herring stock to
105,000 tons in 2013. The European Commission is due to decide
this month on measures that may include import bans and blocking
Faroese vessels from the 28-nation bloc’s ports, according to
the EU Committee for Fisheries and Aquaculture.  Moody’s review affects about 4.2 billion kroner ($745
million) in bond debt and a negative outcome could drive up
borrowing costs when the 18-island territory seeks to tap
markets again next year, Malan Johansen, head of debt management
at the Faroe Accountancy and Financial Department, said in a
telephone interview from Torshavn.  EU sanctions and a downgrade could “mean that the interest
rate won’t be as good,” she said.  The territory, which relies on fishing for 90 percent of
its exports, sold 1 billion kroner in four-year bonds in June at
a coupon of 1.75 percent. The main buyers include Danish banks,
which sell them on to institutional investors.  Interest in the debt “was very good -- the demand was
greater than what we offered,” she said. “We got offers for
about 2 billion kroner.”  GDP Growth  The  Governmental Bank of the Faroes  said in a March report
that it predicted a financing need of 3 percent of gross
domestic product this year, down from 8 percent last year. Next
year the financing need will rise to 14 percent of GDP as debt
matures, according to a report. The bank said it expects nominal
GDP to expand 4.9 percent this year and 1.4 percent next year.  “The government and parliament have a stated goal of
achieving a budget surplus by 2016,” the bank said in the
report. “It’s doubtful whether this can be achieved but as
household consumption increases, public finances also improve as
revenue from taxes and duties grow.”  According to United Nations’ rules, the Faroese are
required to reach an agreement on the size of the annual catch
with the EU, Russia, Norway and  Iceland .  The Faroe government intends to take the dispute with the
EU to a court of arbitration in accordance with the United
Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, state broadcaster  KVF
reported  today. A lawyer has been hired to oversee the case for
the Faroese.  The current allocation doesn’t reflect “the distribution
and dependence of Atlanto-Scandian herring in Faroese waters
today, nor the long-standing dependency of the Faroe Islands on
fisheries,” Prime Minister Kaj Leo Holm Johannesen said in a
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net . 