-- Eurobonds at 50 Threatened by EU Transaction Tax
-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 2013-08-15T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/eurobonds-at-50-threatened-by-eu-tax-as-bonds-replace-bank-loans.html
The tax regime that’s been the
backbone of the Eurobond market since its inception 50 years ago
is now threatened by the same regulatory overhaul driving
corporate borrowers to issue bonds rather than take bank loans.  Eurobond sales this year are on pace to reach $4 trillion,
approaching the record $4.5 trillion set in 2009. Corporate bank
lending in  Europe  fell 8.7 percent to $379 billion in the first
half from the period in 2012, and is down 37 percent from the
$598 billion recorded in the first half of 2011, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The market for Eurobonds is facing its biggest challenge as
lawmakers enact rules to protect taxpayers after the worst
financial crisis since the Great Depression compelled
governments to bail out lenders. At the same time as the amount
of dollar-denominated bonds held by international investors
rises 7.4 percent to $4.5 trillion this year, proposed taxes on
financial transactions may cut demand.  “We’d be pretty worried about the imposition of a
transaction tax because of the effect on liquidity,” said John Pattullo, who manages the equivalent of $4.67 billion as head of
retail fixed income at  Henderson Global Investors  in  London .
“There’s still the long-term structural trend of banks
withdrawing and the bond market taking up the slack. That will
continue.”  Fewer Dealers  Just as companies from Findus Group Ltd., the London-based
frozen-food maker, to cinema operator Vue Entertainment sell
their first bonds, the average number of dealers regularly
quoting prices for Europe’s biggest corporate debt securities
fell to four, down from as many as nine in 2009, according to
Andrew Sheets, head of European credit strategy at Morgan
Stanley in London. Fewer dealers may make it harder and more
costly to buy and sell securities.  Banks may further reduce trading because the European Union
plans to tax stock and bond transactions at a rate of 0.1
percent, adding $10,000 to the cost of a $10 million bond deal.
Derivative trades will be charged at a rate of 0.01 percent,  The levy could begin as soon as next year. If the 11
nations that have so far signed up to take part are able to
agree on the structure, they can impose the taxes involving
transactions by entities based in their countries. The European
Commission estimates the proposal may raise as much as 35
billion euros ($46.4 billion) a year.  First Deal  The tax treatment of Eurobonds helped make the market a
success when bankers led by  Siegmund Warburg , the founder of
S.G. Warburg & Co., underwrote a $15 million debenture for
Autostrade SpA, the manager of  Italy ’s freeways, in 1963.  A quirk in the U.K. tax code dating from the 19th century
allowed financial transactions originating in the U.K. between
foreign counterparties to go untaxed, according to Stanislas Yassukovich, who traded those first bonds at White Weld & Co.
The new securities gave borrowers access to a pile of cash
called Eurodollars because they were held outside the U.S., and
were kept offshore for tax, regulatory or political reasons.  The market expanded from about $22.3 billion in the first
10 years to $166 billion in the second decade through 1982,
according to Ian Kerr’s “A History of the Eurobond Market.”  By 2000, sales reached $1.4 trillion a year, peaking at
$4.5 trillion in 2009 before easing to $4 trillion in 2012.  Bonds are becoming even more important than loans in
Europe, accounting for 82 percent of company debt structures, up
from 68 percent in 2008, according to a Fitch Ratings study of
201 large European issuers.  ‘Considerable Impact’  The tax would penalize investors in shorter maturity debt
disproportionately because the levy wouldn’t differentiate
between commercial paper and a 30-year bond. A one-year loan
using 90-day commercial paper would attract the tax four times
while a 30-year bond transaction would only be charged once.  “The tax would have a considerable impact on secondary
market activity,” said  Ben Bennett , a credit strategist in
London at Legal & General Investment Management, which manages
the equivalent of about $120 billion of corporate bonds. “It
basically makes active  fund management  impossible.” He expects
the tax to be “watered down.”  Rules known as Basel III have been agreed upon and are
being brought into law. Along with demands that banks hold more,
better capital, lenders must also maintain enough liquid
securities to withstand at least a 30 day-long crisis. Banks
will start to phase in the measures by January, with full
implementation set for the start of 2019.  Capital Requirements  The U.K. already plans to impose a 3 percent floor on
capital as a percentage of total assets to stop lenders reducing
their balance sheets by manipulating internal models used to
assign risk weights. They are also reviewing those formulas.  London-based Barclays Plc said on July 30 that regulators
gave it until June 2014 to plug a 12.8 billion-pound ($19.5
billion) capital shortfall. The U.K.’s second-largest lender
subsequently announced plans to sell 5.8 billion pounds ($9
billion) of stock and 2 billion pounds of loss-absorbing
subordinated debt, plus cut leverage and retain earnings, to
satisfy the regulator.  Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank AG, which raised 2.96 billion
euros of new capital in a share sale at the end of April,
announced on an earnings call July 30 a plan to reduce its 1.58
trillion-euro balance sheet by 250 billion euros to comply with
what it expects to be more onerous leverage requirements.  Countervailing Pressures  “Regulators’ game plan is to push high-quality credits
into the bond markets,” said Simon Gleeson, a financial
regulation lawyer in London at Clifford Chance LLP. “But
they’ve created all sorts of countervailing pressures in doing
so. This is dominated by unintended consequences.”  Central banks have succeeded in making long-term, fixed-rate funding attractive to borrowers by cutting  interest rates 
to record lows following the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. in September 2008. That also helped pull the
speculative-grade default rate to about all-time lows, or 2.15
percent in 2012, and made investors eager to buy bonds.  “There has been very strong appetite from investors,”
Monica Insoll, the London-based managing director for credit
market research at  Fitch Ratings , said in a phone interview.
“Corporate bonds have not been seen as risk-free but they
haven’t suffered so much from the crisis.”  Benoit Coeure, a member of the ECB’s executive board, said
in a Paris speech last month that he expects the euro area to
“move towards a more balanced financing mix, with a greater
role for arms’ length finance based on  capital markets .”  Risk-Adjusted Returns  Eurobonds denominated in dollars as tracked by the Bank of
America Merrill Lynch Eurodollar Index, returned a risk-adjusted
125 percent from the end of June 1988 through Aug. 14, beating
Treasuries, U.S. corporate debt and stocks.  This year, the securities are losing 0.78 percent after
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  signaled that the
central bank is prepared to start reducing its unprecedented
stimulus measures.  Findus, which restructured its debt last year before
supermarket companies including Carrefour SA withdrew some
products because tests showed its beef lasagne included
horsemeat, said bond buyers are more flexible than banks.  The company sold 305 million euros of five-year notes in
July to yield 9.125 percent and 150 million pounds of five-year
bonds at 9.5 percent to replace its bank debt.  “The company had had a checkered history with the banks
and some of them were a little fatigued,”  James Hill , who
became chief executive officer in April, said in a telephone
interview. “Bonds offered longer-term security for us. We’ve
got five years now of rock-solid stability.”  Debut Sale  Vue, based in London, raised 300 million pounds of 7.875
percent notes in July that are due in 2020 and 290 million euros
of floating-rate debt, selling the securities through its
Vougeot Bidco Plc unit.  Funding via capital markets rather than through banks has
drawbacks, according to Stuart Stanley, a  money manager  at
Invesco Asset Management in London.  While selling securities offers funding for longer periods
than banks will accept, borrowers have to produce bond documents
for investors, pay for a  credit rating  and meet reporting
requirements, adding to the cost of raising such funding.  With bonds “you get the flexibility that comes with
locking in the funding but you pay a premium,” said Stanley,
who oversees about $3.5 billion of credit-related investments.
“If you get into difficulties it’s much harder to negotiate
with a diverse creditor group and much easier for  hedge funds  to
buy up your bonds and make your life very difficult.”  Reduced Liquidity  Even without fees the cost of borrowing in the bond market
can be higher than in the loan market. The Automobile
Association Ltd., the Basingstoke, England-based company that
offers motorists roadside assistance, in June sold 300 million
pounds of 4.72 percent secured notes due 2018 paying 330 basis
points more than benchmark government debt. The company also
took out a  bank loan  maturing 2018 that will cost it 275 basis
points more than the London interbank offered rate, equivalent
to about 325 basis points over gilts.  By boosting the capital requirements banks must apply to
their trading activities regulators have reduced liquidity in
the secondary bond market, even as the primary market has
swelled from companies turning away from bank funding.  Lack of liquidity can be seen in the difference between the
prices at which dealers buy and sell securities. The average is
about 0.5 percent of the bond price, about double what it was in
the run-up to the crisis in 2006 and 2007, according to data
compiled by Morgan Stanley.  Bad Timing  The premium may increase further because of the EU’s
planned financial transaction tax. The timing, when the economy
is sputtering, is a mistake, according to  John Hughes , Head of
European Regulatory Reform at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in
London.  “The Commission is using a tax to try and stop behavior
that they don’t like,” Hughes said. “They don’t like
volatility and they think that having a transactional charge
will damp it down, force pension funds and asset managers to
move into less risky buy-and-hold strategies. They’re also
trying to move toward longer-term, less volatile funding
methods.”  The U.K. is challenging the tax in court and Luxembourg,
where Citigroup Inc. estimates assets held by banks are 22 times
the nation’s gross domestic product, may do the same.  Fabrizio Saccomanni, finance minister of Italy, one of the
countries that has agreed to levy the tax, echoed concerns from
the heads of government debt agencies when he told the Senate in
 Rome  last month there were “strong risks” should it be
extended to bonds.  The final shape of the tax has still to be decided, as has
the way it will be imposed. For the moment, fund managers’
concerns center on the functioning of the secondary market.  “Banks are less likely to go bust and the taxpayer can be
grateful for that,” said Pattullo at Henderson. “The market is
less liquid, though, because banks have to commit more
capital.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  