-- Europe Stocks Drop the Most in Five Weeks on Fed Concern
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2013-08-15T16:03:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/europe-stock-index-futures-drop-before-u-s-jobless-data.html
European stocks  dropped the most in
more than five weeks as better-than-forecast U.S. jobless claims
fueled speculation the  Federal Reserve  will taper its bond-buying program this year.  Zurich Insurance Group AG (ZURN)  lost 3.6 percent after second-quarter profit missed analysts’ estimates.  Hennes & Mauritz AB (HMB) 
declined the most in seven weeks as Europe’s second-biggest
clothing retailer reported worse-than-expected sales. BG Group
Plc, which derives 20 percent of its oil-and-gas production from
 Egypt , slipped 2.4 percent as the death toll from nationwide
violence in the most populous Arab country climbed above 500.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index slid 1.1 percent to 305.34 at
the close in London, its largest drop since July 5. The equity
benchmark yesterday rose to its highest level since May 22 as
the euro area’s economy returned to growth in the three months
through June after  six quarters  of contraction. It has still
 rallied 11 percent  from a low on June 24.  “European stocks have had a long period of going up and
we’re at the end of the reporting season, so we’re seeing a bit
of a selloff today,” said  Andrea Williams , who helps oversee
$76 billion as head of European equities at Royal London Asset
Management. “There’s some concern about how the Fed will manage
tapering of its bond-buying program. The situation in Egypt is
also causing some nerves about a spike in  oil prices .”  The volume of shares changing hands in Stoxx 600 companies
was 31 percent lower than the average of the past 100 days,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  U.S. Unemployment  In the U.S., a Labor Department report showed fewer
Americans applied for  unemployment benefits  last week.  Jobless
claims (INJCJC)  in the week ended Aug. 10 fell to 320,000 from a revised
335,000 a week earlier. The  median forecast  of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg had called for a reading of 335,000.  “We got a fantastic jobless claims figure, which really
should be a boost to the markets but instead it’s having the
opposite effect,” Craig Erlam, a market analyst at Alpari U.K.
Ltd. in  London , said by telephone. “Tapering is really at the
forefront of everyone’s minds.”  A Fed report showed that output from U.S. factories, mines
and utilities was unchanged in July, after gaining a revised 0.2
percent in June. The median estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg had called for a 0.3 percent increase.  New York  A separate release showed manufacturing expanded at a
slower pace in the  New York  region in August. The Fed Bank of
New York’s general economic  index  slipped to 8.2 from 9.5 in
July. Readings greater than zero mean activity expanded in New
York, northern  New Jersey  and southern  Connecticut .  National benchmark indexes declined in all 14 western-European markets that opened today. Markets in  Italy ,  Greece ,
 Austria , Cyprus and Luxembourg were closed for the Assumption
holiday. Germany’s DAX slid 0.7 percent, while the U.K.’s FTSE
100 tumbled 1.6 percent. France’s CAC 40 lost 0.5 percent.  Zurich Insurance declined 3.6 percent to 243 Swiss francs,
its biggest drop since April, after posting  second-quarter net
income  of $789 million. That missed the $823.8 million average
projection of analysts in a Bloomberg survey. Switzerland’s
largest insurer said the floods in central  Europe  in May and
June cost it $140 million.  H&M lost 1.6 percent to 242 kronor after saying same-store
sales fell 1 percent in July from the same month a year earlier.
The average estimate in an SME Direkt survey of analysts had
called for an increase of 0.8 percent.  Egypt Unrest  BG Group declined 2.4 percent to 1,178 pence as the
Egyptian army continued its campaign to break up demonstrations
against the removal of the country’s president. On July 26,
Chief Executive Officer Chris Finlayson said “events in Egypt
remain a primary concern and will continue to be so as the
political, social and business environment evolves.” Brent
crude oil climbed 0.8 percent to $111.07 a barrel, its highest
price in more than four months.  Centamin Plc, a London-listed miner of gold in Egypt,
slipped 3.4 percent to 36 pence. The army stormed two camps of
supporters of former President Mohamed Mursi in Cairo and Giza.
The Health Ministry said at least 525 people have died. The
government announced a state of emergency lasting a month.  AstraZeneca (AZN)  Plc dropped 1.7 percent to 3,192.5 pence and
 GlaxoSmithKline (GSK)  Plc lost 1.4 percent to 1,657.5 pence as Morgan
Stanley lowered its recommendation on both drugmakers to
underweight, the equivalent of sell, from equal weight. The
brokerage said the shares have less potential to rally further
compared with their peers. GlaxoSmithKline has surged 24 percent
this year, while AstraZeneca has gained 9.7 percent.  Oriflame, Imperial  Oriflame Cosmetics SA  slid 6.6 percent to 202.30 kronor,
its lowest price this year, after reporting earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization of 42.2 million
euros ($56 million) and sales of 360 million euros in the second
quarter. Analysts on average had forecast Ebitda of 46.7 million
euros and revenue of 367 million euros for the period.  Imperial Tobacco Group Plc climbed 2.6 percent to 2,209
pence, its biggest gain in more than three months, as Europe’s
second-biggest tobacco company said it plans to introduce an
alternative to cigarettes next year. The product will provide a
different way of taking nicotine.  “This is the first time Imperial has confirmed that it
plans to launch something in that space next year,” said  Erik Bloomquist , a tobacco analyst at Berenberg Bank in London.
“It’s an important step forward for the company.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in London at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  