-- Ex-JPMorgan Workers, Tax Borders, Swipe Fees: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-08-15T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/ex-jpmorgan-workers-tax-borders-swipe-fees-compliance.html
Two former  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
employees were charged by U.S. prosecutors with attempting to
conceal trading losses at the largest U.S. bank last year as
part of a probe of its $6.2 billion loss on derivatives bets.  Javier Martin-Artajo, a former executive who oversaw the
trading strategy at the bank’s chief investment office in
London, and Julien Grout, a trader who worked for him, were
charged with conspiracy, wire fraud and making false filings in
complaints unsealed yesterday in Manhattan federal court. The
two men engaged in a scheme to falsify securities filings
between March 2012 and May 2012, according to the government.  Bruno Iksil, the Frenchman at the center of the case who
became known as the “London whale” because his portfolio was
so large, signed a non-prosecution agreement with the U.S. in
June, the government said yesterday. He pledged to cooperate
with prosecutors as part of the deal.  Martin-Artajo was Iksil’s supervisor while Grout assisted
him in valuing his trading book. JPMorgan ousted all three last
year and sought to recoup some of their pay.  JPMorgan Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  characterized
the $6.2 billion loss as “the stupidest and most-embarrassing
situation I have ever been a part of.” First disclosed in May
2012, the bad bets led to an earnings restatement, a U.S. Senate
subcommittee hearing and probes by the Securities and Exchange
Commission and U.K. Financial Conduct Authority.  Dimon, 57, pushed out senior executives including former
Chief Investment Officer Ina Drew, who oversaw the London unit
where the loss took place. The bank said it clawed back more
than $100 million in pay from employees who were involved with,
or oversaw, the trade.  Martin-Artajo, 49, and Grout, 35, are charged with four
counts, including conspiracy to falsify books and records,
commit wire fraud and falsify securities filings; falsifying
books and records; wire fraud; and making false filings to the
SEC.  They face as long as 20 years in prison if convicted on the
most serious counts.  Joe Evangelisti , a spokesman for the bank in New York,
declined to comment.  Prosecutors in the office of U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in
Manhattan said Martin-Artajo and Grout manipulated and inflated
the value of the position marks in the Synthetic Credit
Portfolio, or SCP, which the government said had been very
profitable for the bank’s chief investment office, or CIO.  Attorneys for Martin-Artajo and Iksil declined to comment
on the charges. Grout’s lawyers didn’t respond to a request for
comment.  The SEC has filed a parallel civil suit in Manhattan
federal court seeking disgorgement of ill-gotten gains and
unspecified financial penalties. In the civil suit, U.S.
regulators signaled they will hold JPMorgan accountable for
violating securities laws when it disclosed inaccurate
information to investors because of allegedly deceitful
accounting by traders in London.  The references to the bank were contained in a lawsuit  Neither Martin-Artajo nor Grout is in the U.S.  Edward Little , a partner at Hughes Hubbard & Reed LLP in
New York who represents Grout, said in an Aug. 12 interview that
his client was living in France and isn’t a fugitive.  Martin-Artajo was on vacation, and had received no
communication telling him he shouldn’t travel, his attorneys at
Norton Rose Fulbright LLP in London said in an Aug. 13
statement.  Unless the defendants surrender to authorities, the U.S.
will probably have to seek extradition.  The cases are U.S. v, Grout, 13-MAG-01976, and U.S. v.
Martin-Artajo, 13-MAG-01975, U.S. District Court for the
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here, and click here.  Compliance Policy  Company Profits Without Borders Spurs Government Scrutiny  Policymakers around the world are stepping up efforts to
tighten rules because a growing slice of corporate profits isn’t
taxed in any country.  Multinational companies can legally structure transactions
so they don’t pay tax anywhere, creating “stateless income”
that is coming under attack as countries seek to fill budget
gaps. The Obama administration,  Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development  and tax officials from other
countries want to reach a consensus on how to combat the issue,
with more than a dozen proposals being weighed, Bloomberg BNA
reported.  The heightened scrutiny offers a chance to take action. The
largest U.S.-based companies expanded their untaxed offshore
stockpiles by $183 billion last year, or 14 percent, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. In the U.S., Senator  Carl Levin 
held hearings taking U.S. technology companies to task for
structures that let them pay little or no tax on billions in
profits. Representative  Dave Camp  is leading a tax rewrite that
he says will fix the system. Camp has signaled potential support
for a 15 percent tax on intangibles as one way to limit base
erosion, one of three options he has suggested in a discussion
draft of a new tax system.  Stateless income is one driver behind a plan to stop profit
shifting unveiled in July by the OECD, which calls on countries
to take action in more than a dozen areas over the next two
years. Treasury Secretary  Jacob Lew  hailed the plan. Leaders of
the wealthiest economies, the Group of Eight nations, have
agreed to tackle tax evasion by multinational companies anew.  The OECD plans to look at rules requiring taxpayers to
disclose aggressive tax planning arrangements. The plan calls
for scrutiny of facets of the digital economy that may be
vulnerable to tax manipulation and a variety of changes to
transfer pricing guidelines and a focus on “harmful tax
practices.”  Compliance Action  Tribal Online Lenders Ask Banks to Resist Regulatory Pressure  An association of online lenders operated by Native
American tribes called on banks to resist pressure from New York
State to cut them off from the nation’s primary payment system.  The  Native American Financial Services Association  said the
state’s regulators are violating the tribes’ sovereign immunity
when they ask banks to prevent them from making and collecting
on short-term, high-cost loans via the Internet, according to a
letter written by Barry Brandon, the group’s executive director,
to more than 100 banks.  The banks include  Capital One Financial Corp. (COF) ,  Citigroup
Inc. (C) ,  Bank of America Corp. , JPMorgan Chase & Co.,  Wells Fargo &
Co. (WFC) ,  PNC Financial Services Group (PNC)  and  U.S. Bancorp. (USB)   Benjamin Lawsky , the New York superintendent of financial
services, on Aug. 6 ordered a group of 35 online lenders,
including at least four tribal companies, to cease offering
loans in New York. He also sent a letter to 117 banks requesting
their assistance to “choke off” the lenders from the automated
clearing house system, the bank-supported network that handles
electronic bank account debits.  The doctrine of tribal sovereign immunity limits state
interference in Native American governments’ actions. Brandon
said tribal lending operations are legal, and that New York is
“doing an end-run” around the doctrine by pressuring banks and
third-party payment processors to sever ties with the tribes.  Brandon also wrote that tribes are considering “the next
legal steps” to take regarding the New York actions.  The Department of Justice and the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp. have been pressuring banks to reconsider their
relationships with online lenders.  Courts  Fed Given Week by Judge to Respond on New Swipe-Fee Rules  The U.S. Federal Reserve was given a week to tell a federal
judge its position on immediately rewriting regulations setting
debit-card swipe fees in the wake of a court finding the current
rule unlawful.  U.S. District Judge Richard Leon in Washington yesterday
ordered Fed General Counsel  Scott Alvarez  to appear in his
courtroom on Aug. 21 after a lawyer for the Fed said it hadn’t
made any decisions on how to replace the current rule, or
whether to appeal the judge’s ruling.  Earlier in the hearing, Leon laid out a timeline that would
put a final interim rule in place by the end of the month. An
interim final rule takes effect immediately before any public
comments are accepted.  Yesterday’s hearing comes two weeks after retailers
battling banks over debit-card transaction costs were handed a
victory by Leon in Washington, who said merchants were
overcharged billions of dollars under an unlawful swipe fee set
by the Fed.  The decision, unless overturned on appeal, will force
regulators to revisit rules that bankers said would cost them 45
percent of their swipe-fee revenue.  The case is NACS v. Board of Governors of the  Federal
Reserve System , 11-cv-02075, U.S. District Court, District of
Columbia (Washington).  Comings and Goings  Yellen Beats Summers as Most Likely Fed Chair in Economists Poll  Federal Reserve Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  is the most
qualified and most likely candidate to run the central bank,
according to the majority of private economists in a Bloomberg
News survey that showed  Lawrence Summers  trailing by wide
margins in both categories.  Sixty-five percent said Yellen probably will be President
 Barack Obama ’s selection to replace Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ,
while 53 percent said she would do the best job, according to an
Aug. 9-13 poll of 63 economists. Twenty-five percent said
Summers, Obama’s former top economic adviser, would be the
nominee, while 10 percent said he would be best. Six percent
said former Fed Vice Chairman  Donald Kohn  is most likely choice.  The survey results contrast with  odds  offered by bookmaker
Paddy Power Plc, which show Summers is the favorite. Economists
are focusing more on leadership continuity than on the political
connections underpinning Summers’s chances, according to Mark
Calabria, an economist and the director of financial regulation
studies at the Cato Institute in Washington.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New York at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  