-- Mexico Peso Falls to Weakest in Two Weeks Amid Stimulus Concern
-- B y   B e n   B a i n   a n d   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2013-08-15T22:11:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/mexico-peso-drops-most-in-emerging-markets-as-fed-concern-mounts.html
Mexico’s peso fell to the weakest in
two weeks after U.S. jobless claims unexpectedly dropped,
fueling speculation the  Federal Reserve  will reduce stimulus.  The peso depreciated 0.6 percent to 12.8188 per U.S. dollar
at 4 p.m. in Mexico City, the weakest closing level since Aug.
1, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Yields on Mexican
government peso bonds due in 2024 jumped seven basis points, or
0.07 percentage point, to 6.12 percent.  Emerging-market stocks and currencies sank today on concern
that the improvement in the  U.S. economy  will prompt Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  to pare back a bond buying program that
has fueled capital flows to countries with higher yielding
securities. Bernanke will probably reduce the central bank’s $85
billion in monthly bond purchases next month, according to 65
percent of economists surveyed by Bloomberg Aug. 9-13.  “The market is trying to take into account the probability
that the Fed will begin tapering, or start to diminish its bond
buys, is high,”  Ramon Cordova , a trader at Banco Base SA in San
Pedro Garza Garcia, said in a telephone interview.  The peso’s decline today was the biggest among 24 major
emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg after the
Indonesian Rupiah and Brazilian real.  The peso extended its loss after Lisa Schineller, a
sovereign ratings director for  Standard & Poor’s , said in an
interview the agency will refrain from raising Mexico’s credit
rating until lawmakers pass an energy-industry overhaul, and it
may wait until the approval of secondary laws that would follow
a constitutional change. S&P raised its outlook on Mexico’s BBB
rating, the second-lowest investment grade, to positive from
stable in March.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Bain in  Mexico  City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Martin in Mexico City at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  