-- Blast Kills or Hurts About 220 in Beirut Hezbollah District
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2013-08-15T17:22:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/explosion-rips-through-beirut-suburb-controlled-by-hezbollah.html
An explosion ripped through a
Hezbollah militant stronghold in a southern suburb of  Beirut ,
killing at least 14 people and wounding about 212, Lebanon’s
official National News Agency said.  The Lebanese army released a statement saying it was a car
bomb. The blast hit a main road separating the Ruweis and Bir El
Abed areas, which are usually crowded in the early evening.
Homes, shops and cars parked on both sides of the road were
damaged and New TV said six buildings were on fire.  Flames were seen spreading across the street in televised
footage and thick black smoke covered the site as ambulances and
civil defense personnel rushed to the scene. Firefighters were
evacuating residents in nearby buildings. LBC TV reported
several dead and injured removed from the buildings.  The blast occurred a day before a planned Hezbollah rally
in south Lebanon to mark the end of a monthlong war the group
fought with  Israel  in 2006. Hezbollah chief  Hassan Nasrallah  is
scheduled to address the rally via video link.  Hezbollah has sent fighters to help the government of
Syrian President Bashar al-Assad crush an insurgency that began
in March 2011. The rebels have said they would strike Hezbollah
inside and outside Lebanon.  A group calling itself the Brigades of Aisha Umm al-Moemeneen claimed responsibility for the blast in a YouTube
video, which couldn’t be authenticated. It showed two men with
guns flanking a third man seated as he made the claim. All three
wore white masks. The man addressed Hezbollah chief Hassan
Nasrallah, saying it was the second time the group had targeted
the suburb, and that there will be more attacks.  Hezbollah lawmaker Ali Ammar told Al Manar the blast was a
“big terrorist crime.”  A bomb placed inside a parked car in Bir El Abed last month
wounded 53 people.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Beirut at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  