-- Bullard Says Below-Target Inflation Warrants Fed Stimulus
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2013-08-15T15:48:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/fed-s-bullard-says-below-target-inflation-warrants-stimulus.html
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis
President  James Bullard , who has backed the Fed’s $85 billion in
monthly bond purchases, said the current low pace of inflation
wouldn’t ordinarily prompt the central bank to curtail stimulus.  “The committee would not normally remove policy
accommodation in an environment where inflation is below target
and is projected to remain there,” said Bullard, who votes on
policy this year, in Louisville,  Kentucky . The Fed’s inflation
target is 2 percent, above its preferred inflation gauge which
showed prices rising 1.3 percent in the 12 months ended June.  The cost of living in the U.S. increased last month for a
third month, supporting the Fed’s forecast that inflation will
move closer to its target. The consumer-price index increased
0.2 percent after a 0.5 percent gain in June, Labor Department
figures showed today in  Washington .  Asked after his speech about the consumer-price index,
Bullard said to reporters, “to the extent you have higher
inflation numbers in this report, that would be bolstering the
notion that inflation would naturally be moving back toward
target in the coming months and quarters.”  One concern is “inflation may be pushed even lower by a
decision to taper and hence the risk of deflation may
increase,” Bullard said in his speech, referring to a debate
among Fed officials over when to begin reducing bond buying. His
speech is identical to comments by him yesterday.  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will probably begin to dial down
asset purchases at a meeting of the Federal Open Market
Committee Sept. 17-18, according to 65 percent of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg Aug. 9-13.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  