-- Federal Budget Cuts Compromising Court System, Judges Say
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-08-15T22:39:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/federal-budget-cuts-compromising-court-system-judges-say.html
Chief U.S. Judge Loretta Preska in
 Manhattan  and 86 other top federal court judges told Congress in
a letter that automatic spending cuts are compromising the
justice system and putting public safety at risk.  Federal courts’ staffing has fallen to the lowest since
1999 after funding allocations were cut 10 percent below fiscal
2012 levels under budget sequestration, Preska, chief judge of
the Southern District of New York, said in the letter. The
reductions have come amid an increased workload, she wrote.  “Funding reductions have forced us to slash our operations
to the bone and we believe that our constitutional duties,
public safety and the quality of the justice system will be
profoundly compromised by any further cuts,” Preska said in the
letter, co-written with Chief Judge Gerald Rosen of the Eastern
District of  Michigan  and signed by 85 other chief judges.  U.S. spending cuts of $80.1 billion began March 1 after
lawmakers mandated $1.2 trillion in across-the-board reductions,
to begin in 2013 and be spread over nine years, as part of a
2011 deal to increase the U.S. debt limit.  Staffing at federal probation and pretrial services
offices, which employ about 6,000 law enforcement officers, has
fallen by 7 percent since 2011, according to the judges’ letter
to Congress and Vice President Joseph Biden.  Funds for drug, mental-health and sex-offender treatment
were trimmed by 20 percent, the judges said. Federal defender
services, which provide legal counsel for criminal defendants
unable to pay for a lawyer, were most affected, absorbing a
budget reduction of $50 million, Preska said.  Further reductions through furloughs or layoffs will
require shifting the defenders’ work to private lawyers who are
paid hourly wages under the Criminal Justice Act, increasing
costs, Preska said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in  New York  at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  