-- Florida’s Rebound Powered by Foreigners’ Money in Housing
-- B y   T o l u s e   O l o r u n n i p a
-- 2013-08-15T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/florida-s-rebound-powered-by-foreigners-money-in-housing.html
Record foreign investment in  Florida 
housing over the last three years is boosting property-tax
revenue in the localities hardest hit by the recession.  In the 10 Florida counties that have had the largest influx
of international cash since 2010, property-tax assessments have
risen by an average of 4.1 percent this year, according to state
records. That’s nearly twice as fast as the rest of the state.  “It’s all been attributable to the foreign buyer,” Norman Edelcup, mayor of Sunny Isles Beach, a city of 21,000 north of
Miami where values jumped 10.2 percent this year, boosting tax
revenue.  The purchases are helping localities in south and central
Florida recover from the 18-month recession, which ended in June
2009 and left the state with the second-highest foreclosure
rate, behind  Nevada , depressing prices and  tax revenue .  Even with the buying, prices in most parts of the state
haven’t returned to pre-recession levels. In the metropolitan
areas of Miami and Tampa, prices are about 40 percent below the
2006 peak, according to a S&P/Case-Shiller housing report
released July 30.  Foreign investment in Florida residential property has been
rising since the end of the recession, according to a March
report by the Washington-based National Association of Realtors.  Increasing Sales  In 2007, overseas buyers accounted for 7.3 percent of
statewide residential sales by dollar amount. The portion has
since risen to 19 percent for the 12 months ending in June 2012,
the most recent data available. Florida accounts for a quarter
of all U.S. residential real-estate sales to foreigners during
that period, the biggest portion of any state, the report found.  The investors, many from  South America  and  Europe , helped
Florida’s property-tax base expand this year for the first time
since 2007, said county property appraisers, real estate agents
and local officials.  While localities in other parts of the country are
benefiting, including Phoenix and  Las Vegas , the impact has been
greatest in Florida.  Buyers from overseas have purchased more than 250,000
properties in Florida since 2009, spending more than $50
billion, the Realtors’ data show. Buyers from abroad are
purchasing property as vacation homes and to rent.  Bidding Wars  The influx has boosted demand and helped push up prices,
sparking bidding wars, according to real estate agents and
buyers. South Florida home prices were up 14 percent in May from
a year earlier, according to the S&P/Case-Shiller real-estate
 index . Property-tax collections typically lag behind home-price
gains by at least a year.  Developers are rushing to meet the demand of international
investors, proposing more than 20,000 condos in more than 150
new buildings in  South Florida .  That construction may add billions of new dollars to the
property tax rolls of local governments, which had an influx of
tax dollars during the last building boom followed by a drop
when the recession hit.  “It feels like 2003 in South Florida,” said Peter Zalewski, owner of Condo Vultures LLC, a brokerage and
consulting firm based in Miami. “Once domestic buyers move back
into the marketplace, then the boom is on.”  ‘Cheap Prices’  Chris Lafakis, a senior economist at Moody’s Analytics Inc.
in  West Chester ,  Pennsylvania , said Florida’s developers -- and
local governments -- anticipate even more foreign money.  “We do expect construction to pick up in 2014 and 2015,
related to stronger international demand and more domestic
demand,” he said.  Daniel Arguelles, 33, a stockbroker in Bogota, said he
bought three houses in the Miami area since 2009, having been
attracted by depressed prices. He uses them as rentals.  “You have cheap prices, a cheap dollar and low  interest
rates ,” he said in a telephone interview from Bogota. “And
that’s a scenario that you haven’t seen in about 50 years.”  Prospective buyers say they aren’t happy about added
competition.  Nicole Kenaston, 32, said she has been trying to purchase a
house in Miami for the last three years, making offers on at
least five. Each time she’s made an offer, a foreign investor
has outbid her, paying cash, she said.  “I’ll find a place I like and can get financing for,” she
said. “And the all-cash buyers will come in and pay above
market for it.”  ‘Heartbreaking’ Experience  In one neighborhood where she’s been looking, prices have
risen to $250,000 from $180,000 three years ago, Kenaston said.  “It’s heartbreaking,” she said.  The recovery in property-tax revenue is helping debt of the
state and its localities beat the broader $3.7 trillion
municipal-bond market this year through Aug. 13, according to
 Standard & Poor’s  index data.  Florida debt lost 3.47 percent for the period, against 4.1
percent for the market this year. Last year, Florida was up 8
percent against 7.4 percent for the market. Since trailing the
market during the recession, Florida state and local securities
have beaten the broad market in three of the following four
years, according to S&P, and are on pace to repeat that in 2013.  In Miami-Dade County, Florida’s largest, elected officials
are trying to plug a $50 million budget hole, even with a 3.4
percent gain in assessed-property values this year. The mayor
quickly scrapped a proposal to raise taxes last month after
public outcry. County commissioners are considering shutting
libraries and dismissing firefighters.  Luring Buyers  Miami-Dade Mayor Carlos Gimenez, 59, traveled to Spain and
 France  this year and tried to lure homebuyers from those
countries.  Edelcup, 78, the Sunny Isles Beach mayor, said he is
preparing for his city’s $6.9 billion property-tax base to
double after the completion of eight planned luxury condominium
towers. He said some of the extra revenue will go toward new
parks, expanding a school and saving for costs associated with
the next hurricane.  One of the projects under construction in Sunny Isles Beach
is Porsche Design Tower Miami, a 57-story building with a car
elevator and prices ranging from $4.9 million to $32 million. It
may add hundreds of millions of dollars in taxable property.  “We’re blessed to have two and a half miles of
coastline,” Edelcup said. “We’ve tried to market ourselves as
Florida’s Riviera. It’s certainly been a boon to our tax base.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Toluse Olorunnipa in Tallahassee, Florida at 
 tolorunnipa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  