-- Ford Lowers Mileage Rating on C-Max Hybrid to 43 MPG
-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n   a n d   M e g a n   D u r i s i n
-- 2013-08-16T20:05:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/ford-said-to-lower-mileage-rating-on-c-max-plug-in-hybrid.html
Ford Motor Co. (F) , hit by lawsuits for
coming up short on its fuel economy promises, lowered the
mileage rating for its C-Max Hybrid model. The automaker will
also make one-time payments to customers because of the change.  The rating for the 2013 model was revised to 43 miles (69
kilometers) per gallon for combined city and highway driving,
Raj Nair, Ford’s global product development chief, said at a
press conference in Dearborn, Michigan. Ford had advertised 47
mpg for the C-Max Hybrid.  “This is yet another sign that real-world fuel economy has
to match manufacturers’ claims,” Karl Brauer, senior analyst at
Kelley Blue Book, said in an e-mail. “Ford isn’t the first
automaker to run into trouble here, but with today’s heightened
level of accountability, maybe they’ll be the last.”  Ford has faced criticism and lawsuits for not delivering on
the high-mileage promises of its hybrids. Consumer Reports
magazine said Ford’s Fusion hybrid and the C-Max fell 17 percent
to 21 percent short of the promised 47 mpg in its tests last
year. The Dearborn-based automaker said in December it was
talking to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency about how it
tests fuel economy on new vehicles.  “There are customers that are above the” 47 mpg number,
Nair said. “There are customers that are below the number. We
take the customers that are below the number very seriously.”  Because of the mileage change, Ford said it will make a
“goodwill payment” of $550 to customers who purchased a 2013
C-Max Hybrid and $325 to those who leased it. The automaker said
the 2014 version, which goes on sale in December, will be more
fuel efficient, without providing a specific figure.  Ford fell 0.8 percent to $16.30 at the close in New York.
The shares have climbed 26 percent this year,  compared  with a 16
percent gain for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  C-Max Owners  Some 32,000 C-Max owners are eligible for the payments,
according to Ford. If all had purchased their vehicles, the
company’s cost would be $17.6 million.  Last month, the carmaker said it was informing owners of
the C-Max, Fusion and Lincoln MKZ hybrids that they could
upgrade their software at dealerships to improve mileage.  The upgrades are designed to boost mileage in real-world
driving conditions such as those simulated by Consumer Reports.
In those 2012 tests, the C-Max hybrid achieved 37 mpg in
combined city and highway driving.  The EPA plans to update its fuel-economy labeling rules to
adapt to new technology, according to an e-mailed statement.  CEO’s Cornerstone  Chief Executive Officer Alan Mulally has made fuel economy
a cornerstone of his turnaround of the automaker since he
arrived from Boeing Co. in 2006. Regulations in the U.S., Europe
and  Japan  have pushed carmakers to offer more vehicles that
don’t emit climate-warming gases and consume less fuel.  Ford’s move follows similar mileage revisions in November
by  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  and  Kia Motors Corp. (000270) , which relabeled most
of their top-selling U.S. models after discovering testing
errors made in South Korea.  The Seoul-based affiliates, which share engines, model
platforms and a chairman, relabeled window stickers on their
cars and trucks to comply with U.S. EPA guidelines, and issued
debit cards to buyers of about 900,000 vehicles sold in the U.S.
in 2011 and 2012 to reimburse them for higher-than-expected fuel
expenses.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keith Naughton in Dearborn, Michigan at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net ;
Megan Durisin in Dearborn,  Michigan  at 
 mdurisin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  