-- Ford’s Lincoln Channels Lauren With Black Label Features
-- B y   M e g a n   D u r i s i n
-- 2013-08-15T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/ford-s-lincoln-channels-lauren-with-black-label-features.html
Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s Lincoln is
introducing a set of premium interiors featuring materials with
names such as “Venetian Leather” in an attempt to revamp the
fading luxury brand and win back wealthy buyers.  Three optional interiors, to be marketed under the Black
Label name, will go on sale late next year for the brand’s 2015
model year vehicles, Matt VanDyke, Lincoln’s director of global
marketing, told reporters in Dearborn, Michigan, Aug. 12. He
declined to reveal the price of the three Black Label packages,
dubbed Indulgence, Center Stage and Modern Heritage.  By outfitting its cars in Alcantara suede, “Truffle”-
colored leather and other materials, Lincoln intends to attract
affluent buyers who now opt for BMW, Mercedes-Benz and Lexus
luxury vehicles. Ford is spending $1 billion to revive Lincoln,
where annual sales have fallen 65 percent since peaking in 1990
at 231,660. Ford is looking to three new models coming by 2016
to overcome Lincoln’s image as an airport shuttle for business
travelers.  “Some of those things help to enhance the revenue that
they get per unit and build a perceived premium that may not be
existent in the brand today,” Matthew Stover, a Boston-based
auto analyst for Guggenheim Partners, said in a phone interview.
“At the end of the day, it’s lipstick.”  Ford, based in Dearborn, will unveil the Black Label
interiors today at the  Concours d’Elegance  classic car show in
 Pebble Beach ,  California , where Lincoln is one of the featured
brands. They will be shown on the MKZ sedan, which went on sale
in January, and the MKC small sport-utility vehicle, scheduled
to arrive in showrooms next year.  ‘New Conversation’  “We really do see a new conversation coming on the horizon
for the luxury automotive industry,” said Andy Georgescu,
Lincoln’s product marketing manager.  Black Label features include a choice from three interior
themes with high-end wood, suede and leather, as well as wheels
with chrome inserts and five exclusive exterior paint colors,
such as a “Notorious” blue hue. The label also will include a
high-touch experience at dealerships, which VanDyke declined to
describe. He said he expects 6 percent to 10 percent of Lincoln
buyers to opt for the Black Label features.  VanDyke likened the option packages to BMW’s Individual or
Mercedes-Benz’s Designo, top-tier premiums that  Bayerische
Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  and Daimler AG offer to lure high-end buyers.
The Black Label name evokes  Ralph Lauren ’s Purple Label and
Black Label lines of high-end apparel. Lauren, a classic car
collector, has been a consultant for Ford in the past on
automotive design.  Lincoln Sales  Lincoln sales fell 7.6 percent this year through July to
45,207 vehicles.  Lincoln’s Black Label is a much-needed investment and an
attempt for the brand to catch up to upscale competitors, Stover
said. Ford’s luxury line still needs work, and Lincoln won’t
turn around “overnight,” he said.  Black Label also will be rolled out in  China  when Lincoln
starts sales there in 2014, VanDyke said. The interior design
themes may be different and the Black Label name could be
changed so it doesn’t conjure up images of the black market, he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Megan Durisin in Dearborn,  Michigan , at 
 mdurisin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  