-- Forest City Wins Bid to Overhaul Nassau Coliseum
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2013-08-15T19:02:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/forest-city-wins-bid-to-overhaul-nassau-coliseum.html
Forest City Ratner (FCE/A)  Cos., the
developer of  New York ’s Barclays Center, won a bid to take over
and remodel the 41-year-old Nassau Veterans Memorial Coliseum on
Long Island.  The proposal “provided the best opportunity for Nassau
County residents -- one that will create jobs and opportunities,
one that generates the greatest revenue for the county and
completely relieves the county of costly  capital expenditures ,”
Nassau County Executive Edward Mangano said today at a news
conference announcing the winning bidder.  Forest City Ratner beat out  Madison Square Garden Co. (MSG) , the
owner of New York’s Knicks and Rangers, for the project to
modernize the Uniondale coliseum, the oldest National Hockey
League arena after  Manhattan ’s Madison Square Garden. The venue
is home to the NHL’s  New York Islanders , who are moving to
 Brooklyn ’s Barclays Center in 2015 after their Nassau lease
expires.  Nassau County owns the arena and its 77-acre (31-hectare)
site. The developer will pay a minimum rent of $194.5 million
over the initial 34 years of the lease, $82.4 million more than
Madison Square Garden proposed, Mangano said. His choice will
have to be approved by the Nassau County Legislature.  The building renovations should take a year to two years to
construct, Mangano said.  “It’s much more than the existing Coliseum,” he said.
“There will be the development of the plaza, some outdoor
activities for families to enjoy. It’s a major economic center
for our county that’s been underutilized, and we look forward to
really building something very exciting.”  Islanders Games  Forest City Ratner’s $229 million proposal includes at
least four regular-season Islanders games each year plus a pre-season and a post-season game, as well as a game by the  National
Basketball Association ’s Brooklyn Nets. The developer also would
bring in an as-yet-unidentified minor-league team.  Bruce Ratner, the company’s executive chairman, has played
up his partnership with Jay Z’s Roc Nation LLC entertainment
company -- whose artists include Rihanna, Shakira and M.I.A. --
bringing the rap superstar to a presentation in May before
Nassau County’s business advisory council.  Jay Z Partnership  Ratner also has teamed with  Live Nation Entertainment Inc. (LYV) ,
the biggest U.S. concert promoter and ticket seller, which,
together with Jay Z’s organization, would drive more than 50
concerts a year to the coliseum. All told, Ratner said he
already has commitments to fill more than 200 calendar dates
with events at the  Long Island  venue, including 38 minor-league
hockey games, 54 family shows and 83 parking-lot events, such as
barbecue competitions and classic-car exhibitions.  The Forest City Ratner plan would reduce the arena’s
maximum capacity to about 13,000, down from the current 18,000,
with configurations for as few as 4,000 seats.  Madison Square Garden Co. is “disappointed” and “will be
watching closely as this process moves to the County
Legislature,” the company said in an e-mailed statement. “ We
continue to believe that Madison Square Garden’s proposal,
expertise and proven track record represent the best and most
realistic opportunity to revitalize the Nassau Coliseum.”  Garden Restoration  MSG’s proposal stressed its experience managing and
restoring sports and entertainment venues, including its $1
billion restoration of the Garden itself, which is now under
way. The company also operates Radio City  Music Hall ,
Manhattan’s Beacon Theatre and  Chicago ’s Chicago Theatre, and
recently acquired the Los Angeles Forum, the former home of the
NBA’s Lakers and NHL’s Kings that it’s restoring as a full-time
concert venue.  Forest City Ratner offered richer terms than MSG, “a
significant factor” in the selection, Mangano said. Under
Forest City Ratner’s plan, the county will receive 8 percent of
gross revenue and 12.75 percent of parking fees, with a
guaranteed minimum of $4 million a year to the county,
escalating by 10 percent every five years.  MSG’s rent was based “solely” on a payment of $1.50 for
every ticket sold, Mangano said. Forest City Ratner officials
will appear with him at a press conference tomorrow at the
Coliseum, he said.  “We understand and proudly accept the tremendous
responsibility that accompanies this project,” Bruce Ratner
said in an e-mailed statement. “It is time for Nassau County to
have an iconic and celebrated venue.”  Gary Harding , former president of the Islanders booster
club, said he’s pleased that MSG wasn’t selected since it owns
the archrival  New York Rangers .  “Phew! The right guy got the bid,” he said in an e-mail.
“My team is moving. I am sad. But at least the MSG people will
not get to walk into the building that stands so much for Long
Island history.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kara Wetzel in New York at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net ;
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  