-- Formosa to Invest $1.15 Billion in Fortescue Iron Ore Venture
-- B y   D a v i d   S t r i n g e r
-- 2013-08-15T23:53:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/formosa-to-invest-1-15-billion-in-fortescue-iron-ore-venture.html
Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. (FMG) ,
Australia’s third-biggest  iron ore  exporter, said Formosa
Plastics Group agreed to invest $1.15 billion in a planned
project in Western Australia that includes Baosteel Group Corp.  Formosa will acquire a 31 percent interest in the FMG Iron
Bridge joint venture for $123 million and will provide the first
$527 million of  capital spending  to develop the first stage of
the project, 100 kilometers south of  Port Hedland , Perth-based
Fortescue said today in a statement.  FMG Iron Bridge Ltd., jointly owned by Fortescue and a unit
of China’s Baosteel, owns the North Star and Glacier Valley iron
ore deposits, which have a combined iron ore resource of 5.2
billion metric tons, Fortescue said. Taiwan’s Formosa agreed to
purchase as much as 3 million tons a year of iron ore at market
prices to supply a steel mill under construction at Ha Tinh, in
 Vietnam , the statement said.  “The successful development of the FMG Iron Bridge project
is of strategic importance to Formosa,” Hung-Chi Yang,
President of Formosa Resources Corp., said in the statement.
“This investment will secure a substantial long term resource
to complement the group’s manufacturing activities.”  First production of 1.5 million tons a year could begin in
early 2015, Fortescue said. Formosa will prepay $500 million
upfront to Pilbara Infrastructure Ltd. to access Fortescue’s
Herb Elliott Port under separate infrastructure access
arrangements, Fortescue said.  The deal is subject to approvals from the Australian
Foreign Investment Review Board and the Taiwan Investment
Commission, which are expected to be completed next month,
Fortescue said in the statement.  Stage two of the project is dependent on government and
venture approval and will be funded by the three companies,
according to the statement.  Deutsche Bank AG advised Fortescue and Formosa by  Australia
& New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)   To contact the reporter on this story:
David Stringer in Melbourne at 
 dstringer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  