-- Fox Sports 1 Said to Debut on TV Systems Without New Fee Accords
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2013-08-15T18:37:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/fox-sports-1-said-to-debut-on-tv-systems-without-new-fee-accords.html
Twenty-First Century Fox Inc. (FOXA)  lined
up DirecTV,  Dish Network Corp. (DISH)  and  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  to
carry the new Fox Sports 1 TV network, reaching 90 million
households with a lineup that will include college football and
 Major League Baseball .  The channel replaces Fox’s Speed, an auto-racing network,
when it debuts on Aug. 17. DirecTV, Dish and Time Warner Cable
are keeping their existing financial arrangements with Fox,
three people with knowledge of the matter said. They will
continue to pay their current subscriber rate, said the people,
who asked not to be named because terms are private.  The network, in an e-mailed statement today, said every
major pay-TV provider is “on board.”  Fox, which is challenging  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ESPN for sports
audiences, promised investors the new network would reach 90
million households. By allowing the distributors to carry the
channel without long-term fee deals, Fox adds about 46 million
pay-TV households and meets that objective.  Lou D’Ermilio , a Fox
spokesman, declined to comment on terms.  Comcast Corp., Cox Communications Inc., Verizon
Communications Inc.’s FiOS, AT&T Inc.’s U-verse, Cablevision
Systems Corp., Charter Communications Inc. and Suddenlink
Communications have reached deals to carry Fox Sports 1,
representing about 45 million subscribers, Sports Business Daily
reported on Aug. 12.  Rising Costs  Fox Sports 1 will include sports-centric shows, including a
program hosted by  Regis Philbin , and will carry live sports
including college football, college basketball, Major League
Baseball and soccer’s 2018 and 2022 World Cups.  Cable and satellite operators pay about 31 cents a month
per subscriber for Speed, according to research firm SNL Kagan.
Fox Sports 1 will probably earn about 80 cents per subscriber
per month in 2014, Kagan estimates.  DirecTV (DTV) , Dish and Time Warner Cable are the No. 2, No. 3
and No. 4 pay-TV providers, respectively, trailing Comcast.
Executives at the companies have publicly lamented the rising
cost of sports programming.  DirecTV Chief Executive Officer Mike White said this month
the satellite-TV provider won’t carry the Pac-12 network unless
it agrees to be on a separately priced sports tier or available
a la carte.  “As long as they want to insist that you put more in a
bundle that’s already too big and tax all of the customers at a
rate that we don’t believe is fair for the customers that don’t
care about it, and are unwilling to entertain any discussion of
letting the customers choose, we probably won’t be able to carry
it,” White said.  Time Warner Cable is engaged in a standoff with CBS Corp.,
which broadcasts sports including the  National Football League ,
over fees to carry its programming in New York, Los Angeles and
Dallas. The cable company, based in New York, began blacking out
CBS in those markets on Aug. 2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  