-- German Second-Quarter Property Prices Climb Most in a Year
-- B y   D a l i a   F a h m y
-- 2013-08-15T09:26:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/german-second-quarter-property-prices-climb-the-most-in-a-year.html
German property prices rose by the
most in a year in the second quarter as more residents bought
homes and office investment increased amid tight supply.  Prices for houses, apartments and residential buildings
climbed 4.1 percent from a year earlier, according to an index
published by the  VDP Association of German Pfandbrief Banks 
today. The office-price index rose 5.6 percent, giving both
measures their best gain since the second quarter of 2012.  “Price developments in German residential property are
still being determined by large cities and university towns,”
Jens Tolckmitt, VDP’s general manager, said in a statement.
“Rising populations and a growing number of households there
are leading to continuous demand.”  Housing demand in cities such as Berlin and  Frankfurt  is
outpacing construction as young workers move to areas where jobs
are easier to find. Office prices are being pushed higher by
institutions seeking a safe investment as the euro area  went
through a record-long recession that only ended in the last
quarter.  Commercial-property investments in  Germany , Europe’s
largest economy, reached 12.5 billion euros ($16.6 billion) in
the first half, the most since 2008, according to data compiled
by London-based broker  Savills Plc. (SVS)   Prices for owner-occupied apartments rose 6 percent and
residential-building prices gained 4.9 percent, driven by a 4.6
percent increase in rents paid on new leases, VDP said.  VDP collects price data from mortgage contracts signed
across Germany by its 38 member banks, which include Deutsche
Bank AG, Commerzbank AG,  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  and  ING Groep NV. (INGA) 
The data includes information from all cities, regardless of
their size, in which members made loans. By comparison, other
German property indexes are based on prices and rents in only
the largest cities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  