-- Giant Interactive CFO
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-16T06:01:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/giant-interactive-cfo.html
Giant Interactive Group Inc. (GA) ’s
 shares  are undervalued by more than 60 percent as the maker of
the “ZT Online” game is hurt by allegations of irregularities
at other Chinese companies, Giant’s chief financial officer said.  The 47 percent rally in Giant’s New York-traded stock this
year represents a recovery after accounting scandals tarnished
the image of Chinese equities in the U.S., Jazy Zhang, 44, said
in an Aug. 14 interview. Giant, a Shanghai-based company that
develops role-playing games, trades at 8.7 times estimated
profit for this year, compared with an average multiple of 10.2
in the past five years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Put us in the global context, let’s remove the label
‘Chinese company’ and just say ‘a company’ instead, what is fair
valuation for the company? I think it’s fair to give us a PE
multiple of 15,” Zhang said.  The average estimated price-to-earnings ratio of 16 Chinese
Internet companies, including  NetEase Inc. (NTES)  and Qihoo 360
Technology Co., is 41.3, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Giant fell 1.7 percent yesterday in  New York  trading.  Giant’s shares plunged 42 percent in the two years through
2011 as Chinese companies listed in the U.S. encountered
heightened scrutiny from investors after some went public
through reverse mergers and were later revealed to have
misreported financial information.  In reverse mergers, a closely held firm buys a shell
company already public on an exchange, allowing them to list
shares without the scrutiny of a public offering.  Accounting Scandals  The accounting scandals “really scared the investment
community,” Zhang said. “They really thought all Chinese
companies cooked their books and that’s not true.”  That view has changed during the past few years as more U.S.
investors traveled to  China  to do their due diligence, said
Zhang, who spent 16 years in the U.S., earning an MBA from the
University of  Southern California  and becoming a certified
public accountant.  Investors are also latching on to the company’s improving
prospects as it releases updated versions of “ ZT Online ” and
introduces one to two mobile games this year, Zhang said. The
success of “ World of Xianxia ,” a 3-D game in which large
numbers of players compete within a virtual world, will help the
company achieve “double-digit” earnings growth, she said.  Sina, Tencent  Giant’s competitors in the U.S. and Hong Kong also surged
this year. Changyou.com Ltd., which develops online computer
games, has risen 13 percent;  Shanda Games Ltd. (GAME)  has jumped 46
percent; and NetEase, the operator of China’s second-largest
online games website, has soared 49 percent. The  Bloomberg
China-US gauge  of the most-traded Chinese companies in the U.S.
has declined 3.1 percent.  Sina Corp. (SINA) , whose Twitter-like service features games,
surged 58 percent, while  Tencent (700)  Holdings Ltd., which offers
games in its WeChat instant messaging service, jumped 48 percent
in Hong Kong trading. Sina posted a second-quarter loss on a
charge related to an asset sale as it boosted spending on new
services on mobile applications.  Tencent, China’s largest Internet company by market value,
posted profit that missed analyst estimates as it boosted
spending on e-commerce and marketing to compete against Alibaba
Group Holding Ltd.  “Competition among Chinese gaming companies is really
intense, and the large amount of free games has pinned their
margins,” said Ricky Lai, an analyst at Guotai Junan
International Holdings Ltd. in  Hong Kong . “More subscribers are
migrating to mobile platforms that have lower average revenue
per user.”  Consolidation  Giant listed in New York in 2007. Its shares plunged 8.6
percent on Aug. 7 after the company forecast third-quarter
revenue would be “flat to moderately up” from the previous
period. The forecast had more to do with a company decision to
be conservative with projections as it faces the possibility
serious players may not like updated versions of its games,
Zhang said.  “I think in the near term the stock may be range-bound,
especially after this year’s rally,” Andy Yeung, an Internet
stock analyst at Oppenheimer & Co. in New York, said by e-mail.  China’s Internet game industry also would benefit from
fewer  competitors , Zhang said.  “From a business standpoint, it makes sense for some
consolidation,” Zhang said. “The truth of the matter is, who
wants to be bought? If you look around, all the large publicly
traded gaming companies have a load of cash.”  --Allen Wan. With assistance from Gregory Turk, Zhang Shidong
and Jack Gao in  Shanghai ; Lulu Yilun Chen in Hong Kong; Edmond
Lococo in Beijing; and Belinda Cao in New York. Editors: Greg
Ahlstrand, Michael Tighe  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allen Wan in Shanghai at 
 awan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  