-- Goodman Sees Prospects for A$1.5 Billion New U.S. Projects
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2013-08-15T06:50:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/goodman-sees-opportunities-for-a-1-5-billion-new-u-s-projects.html
Goodman Group (GMG) , the world’s  second-biggest  industrial property manager by assets, could spend as
much as A$1.5 billion ($1.4 billion) on new developments in the
U.S. within the next three years.  Goodman sees opportunities to develop new prime industrial
properties on the east and west coasts of the U.S., Chief
Executive Officer Greg Goodman said. The company’s $890 million
partnership with the Canadian Pension Plan Investment Board in
the U.S. has so far invested in three projects in the country,
representing 2 percent of the group’s work in progress.  “We’ve got very attractive opportunities, very attractive
sites” in the U.S., Goodman said today by telephone. “We’ve
got a very good partner in CPPIB and have no plans for any new
partners at this time.”  Absorption of warehouse space in the U.S. is at pre-recession levels and rental rates are climbing as tenant
requirements for modern space exceed supply, broker Jones Lang
LaSalle Inc. said in its first-quarter  industrial outlook
report .  Goodman Group’s development work in progress grew to A$2.3
billion from A$1.9 billion a year ago, and is on track to expand
to A$2.5 billion, driven by increasing volume in  Asia  and the
Americas, the company said today in the release of its full-year
earnings. Operating  profit  climbed 17 percent to A$544 million
in the year to June 30 and assets under management jumped 15
percent to A$23 billion.  Goodman Group  shares  rose 0.4 percent to A$4.80 at the
close of trading in Sydney. They’re up 11 percent this year,
compared with a 4.3 percent gain in the S&P/ASX 200 A-REIT
Index.  Debt Sources  The company raised A$2.8 billion in the year and an
additional A$1.2 billion since June, Goodman Group said today.
It has A$2.2 billion of uncommitted equity and A$1.6 billion of
undrawn debt facilities, it said.  Goodman Group will seek to diversify its sources of debt
following an inaugural issuance by its European fund, Chief
Financial Officer Nick Vrondas said today. The Goodman European
Logistics Fund completed a 550 million euro ($730 million)
equity raising and a 500 million euro Eurobond sale, the company
said in July.  “At the Goodman Group headstock level, we have no plans”
to issue debt, Vrondas said. “But all of the funds, one way or
another, over the next couple of years, will be accessing debt
capital markets.”  Goodman’s New Zealand fund, its  Australia  Industrial Fund
and the European vehicle, have already accessed debt capital
markets, he said.  Investment Partnerships  Goodman Group has investment partnerships with the Abu
Dhabi Investment Council in  Japan  and the Malaysian Employees
Provident Fund in Australia, in addition to its tie-up with
CPPIB in the U.S. and  China . The investors are seeking to
capitalize on Goodman’s development capability as demand grows
for logistics and industrial assets from both tenants and
investors.  Rising freight costs and consumer expectations for shorter
delivery times are driving tenant demand for well-located
logistics properties, while relatively high yields are behind
investor demand, broker Colliers International said in a report
last month.  Net income in the year ended June 30 fell to A$161 million
from A$408.3 million 12 months earlier on unrealized derivative
and foreign-exchange adjustments, the company said. Operating
profit in the year to June 30, 2014, will be A$594 million, it
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  