-- Google, EA, Red Bull, Automattik: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-08-15T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/google-ea-red-bull-automattik-intellectual-property.html
Google Inc., whose GoogleGlass
wearable device has raised privacy concerns, received a patent
on a technology that would submit the wearer to the same sort of
scrutiny.  Patent 8,510,166 was issued Aug. 13, according to the
database of the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. It covers what
 Mountain View , California-based Google calls a “gaze-tracking
system.”  According to the patent, this technology includes a head-mounted gaze-tracking device such as a camera that communicates
with a server. A second camera looks outward, capturing what is
seen by the wearer. The gaze-tracking device can then tell the
server exactly which element within the external scene is being
viewed by the user, and sends that information to the server,
which compiles a “gazing log” of items the wearer viewed.  Google doesn’t spell out specific uses for this technology
in the patent, saying only that it can provide a reliable, low
cost, and unobtrusive, eye-tracking system with “a variety of
useful everyday applications.”  The application for this patent was filed in May 2011, with
the assistance of Blakely Sokoloff Taylor & Zafman LLP of  Los
Angeles .  Sunbeam Wins Appeal Over Hamilton Beach Slow Cooker Patent  Nacco Industry Inc. (NC) ’s patent on its Hamilton Beach portable
slow cooker was found to be invalid by a federal appeals court.  In its Aug. 14 ruling, the Washington-based   U.S. Court of
Appeals  for the Federal Circuit said the Hamilton Beach unit
made a purchase order with its foreign supplier for the product
with features covered by the patent more than a year before it
filed its patent application.  The appeals court said that the trial court had properly
found that the patent claims Hamilton Beach was asserting
against a Sunbeam product were invalid.  Hamilton Beach had filed the patent suit against Sunbeam in
federal court in  Virginia  in May 2011. After the adverse ruling
from the trial court, Cleveland-based Hamilton Beach then filed
the appeal.  The lower court case is Hamilton Beach Brands Inc. v.
Sunbeam Products Inc., 3:11-cv-00345-JRS, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of Virginia (Richmond). The appeal is Hamilton
Beach Brands Inc. v. Sunbeam Products Inc., 12-1581, U.S. Court
of Appeals for the Federal Circuit ( Washington ).  Avanir Pharma Settles Nuedexta Patent Litigation With Sandoz  Avanir Pharmaceuticals Inc. and  Novartis International AG (NOVN) ’s
Sandoz unit have settled a patent dispute related to Avanir’s
Nuedexta drug used to treat neurological problems associated
with multiple sclerosis and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis,
according to an Avanir statement.  Aliso Viejo , California-based Avanir sued Sandoz in federal
court in Delaware May 30, after Sandoz filed an application with
the U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  to market a generic form
of the drug. Avanir claimed this would infringe three patents.  According to an Aug. 14 statement from Avanir, Sandoz is
granted the right to sell a generic version of the drug
beginning July 30, 2026, or “earlier under certain
circumstances.” Avanir said this settlement doesn’t end its
litigation against four other companies that have filed
applications to sell generic versions of the drug.  The case is  Avanir Pharmaceuticals Inc. (AVNR)  v. Sandoz Inc.,
1:13-cv-00961-LPS, U.S. District Court, District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  SEC, Big Ten Won’t License Trademarks to EA Football Games  Electronic Arts Inc. (EA)  will no longer be able to use
conference trademarks from the  Southeastern Conference  and the
Big Ten in the games company’s Sports NCAA football video game,
ESPN.com  reported .  The two conferences’ refusal follows the  National
Collegiate Athletic Association ’s announcement that in the
future it wouldn’t license its marks to the  Redwood City ,
California-based game company for the college football games,
according to ESPN.  The SEC said in a statement that while it wouldn’t license
its marks, schools that are conference members could make their
own decisions about whether to license their marks to EA, ESPN
reported.  The NCAA is in the middle of a legal dispute with student
athletes over what they say is the unauthorized and
uncompensated use of their likenesses in EA sports video games,
according to ESPN.  Red Bull Tells U.K. Brewery That ‘Redwell Brewing’ Infringes  Red Bull  GmbH, the Austrian maker of the similarly named
energy drink, has demanded a small U.K. brewery withdraw a
trademark application and change its name or face potential
legal action, the U.K.’s Independent newspaper reported.  The target of the Austrian company’s ire is Redwell
Brewing, a small five-month-old craft brewery in Norwich,
according to the Independent.  In a letter to the small brewery, Red Bull’s brand-enforcement manager Hanzbjorg Jeserznik said both names are
comprised solely of English words and both contain the element
“red,” making them “confusingly similar,” according to the
newspaper.  Benjamin Thompson, one of Redwell’s four directors, told
the Independent that his company was in a bind because it
couldn’t afford the legal costs of fighting the Austrian company
and didn’t have the money to pay the cost of rebranding, the
Independent reported.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Automattik Calls DMCA Takedown Request an Attempt to Censor  Automattik Inc., the San Francisco-based developer of open-source software used by WordPress bloggers, said a copyright-infringement takedown request it received from a U.K.
organization that campaigns for “heterosexual equal rights”
was a misuse of the Digital Millennium Copyright Act and
amounted to censorship, the U.K.’s Guardian newspaper  reported .  Straight Pride UK  filed the takedown request after a U.K.
student who was attempting to interview the organization used
part of a press release from the group in a posting in his
WordPress blog, according to the Guardian.  Pater Sidorove, the head of operations for Moscow’s
Straight Forward, an affiliate of Straight Pride UK, said in a
statement that the press release was a private statement not
intended for publication that the group decided to dress up as a
press release in order to make the student feel like a reporter,
the newspaper reported.  In that release, a spokesman for Straight Pride UK endorsed
the anti-gay attacks in Russia and  Africa , according to the
Guardian.  Google Takes Down Reality-Show Judge’s YouTube Channel  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s YouTube video-sharing service has shut down a
channel belonging to a judge in an East Africa music reality-competition program, the Ghafla Kenyan entertainment news
website reported.  Juliana Kanyomozi , a Ugandan judge on the Tusker Project
Fame program, began uploading her own music videos on her
YouTube Channel, thus sidestepping the fees she previously paid
to music promoters to upload her songs, according to Ghafla.  She was reported for copyright infringement and her channel
was shut down, Ghafla reported.  Kanyomozi turned to  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s social media site to
post a response, saying she couldn’t understand how someone
could report her for copyright infringement on her own work,
according to Ghafla.  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland,  California , at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 