-- Green Shoots Seen Extending Infosys, TCS Rally
-- B y   K a r t i k a y   M e h r o t r a
-- 2013-08-16T10:53:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/green-shoots-seen-extending-infosys-tcs-rally.html
Prospects for better economic growth
in the U.S. and  Europe  are prompting analysts to raise their
ratings for Indian software stocks, signaling a 31 percent rally
in an industry index this year will continue.  The  S&P BSE Information Technology index , comprising 10
companies including the top two  Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS) 
and  Infosys Ltd. (INFO) , has outperformed 12 other gauges measuring
industries from  consumer durables  to metals and banks, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Nomura Holdings Inc. upgraded
Infosys to a buy this week, while analysts at Sunidhi
Consultancy Services Pvt. and K.R. Choksey Shares and Securities
Pvt. said they may raise price targets for the stocks.  “Green shoots in the U.S. are carrying this industry right
now,” said Naushil Shah, an analyst at Mumbai-based brokerage
Sunidhi. “The timing couldn’t have been better as we were
seeing volatility and instability as spending disappeared. At
this rate, in a year, much of that could be forgotten.”  Data showing U.S. unemployment fell and optimism the euro
region is recovering from a record-long recession drove TCS,
 Asia ’s No. 1 computer-services exporter by market value, to its
peak this month, Wipro to a 13-year best this week and Infosys
to a two-year high. The surge compares with a 4.3 percent
decline in the benchmark S&P BSE  Sensex (SENSEX)  in 2013 as India’s
 decade-low  growth caused the rupee to plunge 11 percent.  Customer Spending  The Infotech index has rebounded 44 percent from a near 10-month low it touched on July 26, 2012, when a prolonged credit
crisis in Europe and an economic slowdown in the U.S., the
biggest market for Indian code writers, curbed customer
spending.  The value of outsourcing contracts in  North America , which
accounts for about 60 percent of the Indian software exporters’
revenue, shrank to $2.4 billion in the quarter ended July 2012,
the lowest level in two years, according to data provided by
researcher Ovum Ltd.  A report by the European Union’s statistics office in
Luxembourg said Aug. 14 that  gross domestic product  in the 17-nation euro area rose 0.3 percent last quarter after shrinking
0.3 percent in the previous three months.  The growth brought to a close six straight quarters of
contraction, the longest stretch since the euro’s debut in 1999.
Europe contributes about 23 percent of the code writers’
revenue, according to industry group Nasscom.  The  unemployment rate  in the U.S. dropped to 7.4 percent in
July, a report showed on Aug. 2, while a measure of job
prospects in the world’s biggest economy climbed in July by the
most in five months, a sign that the labor market is improving.  ‘Optimistic Outlook’  “We are optimistic on the outlook of the IT sector because
clearly U.S. spending is coming back and European spending
should increase,” Sam Mahtani, director of  emerging markets  at
F&C Asset Management Plc in  London , said in a telephone
interview on Aug. 14. “We have a stronger preference for TCS as
they are well positioned. With Infosys and Wipro, you are
betting on things getting better though it’s still very early.”  Tata Consultancy, which reported profit that beat analysts’
estimates in the quarter to June 30, said seven of the 10 large
deals it won in the period were from companies in the U.S. The
Mumbai-based firm sees a “healthy” pipeline of outsourcing
orders from customers in major markets, Chief Executive Officer
N. Chandrasekaran told reporters on July 18.  The company, which provides computer services and back
office support to customers including Citigroup Inc. and Network
Rail in the U.K., won two new $100 million clients in the
quarter, the company said in a statement. A global aerospace
major and a Nordic airline outsourced work to the Indian
software-services provider, it said, without elaborating.  Good Pipeline  “Our pipeline is very, very good not only in the U.S. but
everywhere else,” Chandrasekaran said at the news conference.
“We are looking forward to a good year.” First-quarter profit
rose 16 percent to 38 billion rupees ($621 million), surpassing
the 37.5 billion-rupee median of 40 analysts’ estimates compiled
by Bloomberg.  Shares of the  software developer  have surged 42 percent
this year to 1,780.90 rupees. They closed at an all-time high of
1,870.10 rupees on Aug. 6.  Co-Founder’s Return  Infosys, whose 14 percent stock plunge last quarter was the
worst since 2008, asked its billionaire co-founder N.R. Narayana Murthy to return as chairman in June and revive growth. Murthy
told investors June 15 that a recovery may be painful and take
at least 36 months.  Sales at the Bangalore-based company jumped 17 percent in
the quarter to 112.7 billion rupees, exceeding the 109.9
billion-rupee median of 48 analyst estimates. It said it won
seven contracts worth $50 million to $100 million in the period.  Infosys’s U.S. head Ashok Vemuri and TCS’s Chief Financial
Officer Rajesh Gopinathan weren’t immediately available for
comments on outlook for the industry.  Shares of Infosys have advanced 28 percent this year,
almost mirroring the Infotech index.  HCL Technologies Ltd. (HCLT) , a
New Delhi-based company, was the top performer in the gauge with
a 49 percent gain, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Wipro, the nation’s third-biggest developer by market value, has
risen 30 percent.  Deal Pickup  “We are seeing a pickup in large deal closures, which has
reflected in strong order book in the current quarter,” T.K. Kurien, Wipro’s chief executive officer, said in a statement on
July 26. Billionaire Chairman  Azim Premji  said the company is
seeing higher confidence among its customers amid “positive
macroeconomic developments,” particularly in the U.S.  The Infotech index’s 31 percent surge this year compares
with a 37 percent slide in a  gauge  representing 10 local mining
and metal companies, 30 percent slump in an  index  of Indian
power and electricity equipment producers in  India , and a 9.4
percent advance in the  consumer-goods  measure of 11 members.  Nomura’s Mumbai-based analysts Ashwin Mehta and Pinku
Pappan in a report this week wrote their top pick among the
Indian IT companies was HCL Technologies, while raising their
rating for TCS to neutral.  Demand indicators in the U.S. and discretionary spending
across companies have improved, while the risk of U.S. visa
restrictions on Indian software workers is receding as the
proposed immigration bill is stalling in Congress, they wrote.  “This reduces downside risks to growth expectations and
has the potential to provide upside kickers of about 3 percent
to revenue growth for tier-1 IT companies in the best-case
scenario versus our current estimates,” they wrote.  Rupee Slump  A depreciating rupee has also helped local software-service
providers to chase deals at competitive prices, adding to the
macro-economic optimism overseas, according to Nomura and
Mumbai-based brokerage Nirmal Bang Equities Pvt. A weaker
currency makes goods and services cheaper for overseas buyers.  The local currency touched an all-time low of 62.005 a
dollar today as Asia’s third-biggest economy grapples with a
record  current-account deficit  and struggles to revive growth
from last year’s 5 percent, the slowest pace since 2003.  “The stumbling Indian economy has turned out to be a good
thing for the export-oriented sector, increasing their
competitiveness vis-a-vis Accenture and IBM who have got better
at offshoring their services,” said Harit Shah, a Mumbai-based
analyst at Nirmal Bang.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartikay Mehrotra in  New Delhi  at 
 kmehrotra2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at   mtighe4@bloomberg.net  