-- Gundlach to Run DoubleLine Fund Using Shiller Benchmark
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2013-08-15T23:00:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/gundlach-to-run-doubleline-fund-using-shiller-benchmark.html
Jeffrey Gundlach , manager of the
top-performing  DoubleLine Total Return Bond Fund (DBLTX) , is planning a
new fund that will seek to beat an index that focuses on the
cyclically adjusted price-to-earnings ratio for stocks.  DoubleLine Shiller Enhanced CAPE Fund will use derivatives,
perhaps in combination with direct investments, to track the
performance of the Shiller Barclays CAPE U.S. Sector Total
Return USD Index, and invest in bonds to try to generate long-term total returns that beat the index, according to a filing
today with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. The fund
will be run by Gundlach and Jeffrey Sherman, who co-manages the
DoubleLine Multi-Asset Growth Fund.  The  Shiller Index , named for economist Robert Shiller, the
co-creator of the S&P/Case-Shiller home-price index, allocates
an equally weighted notional long exposure to the top four U.S.
sectors that are undervalued based on cyclically adjusted price-to-earnings ratio and exhibit relatively strong price momentum
over the past year. The index returned 20 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with a decline of 2.7 percent for
the Barclays U.S. Aggregate Index, the most commonly used
benchmark for fixed-income managers, and a gain of 20 percent
for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  This year, Gundlach’s firm opened a floating-rate mutual
fund, an equities small-cap growth fund and an income-oriented
closed-end fund to diversify Los Angeles-based DoubleLine
Capital LP after a three-decade-long bond bull market.  Gundlach’s flagship DoubleLine Total Return Bond Fund
advanced at an annual average of  7.5 percent  in the past three
years, ahead of 97 percent of peers, and fell 0.7 percent this
year through yesterday, beating 87 percent of similarly managed
funds, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in  New York  at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  