-- Li & Fung Surges in Hong Kong on Company Outlook
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 2013-08-15T08:34:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/li-fung-surges-in-hong-kong-on-company-outlook.html
Li & Fung Ltd. (494) , the world’s largest
supplier of clothes and toys to retailers, surged the most in
more than four years after saying its business is recovering and
operating earnings are set to pick up later this year.  The outsourcer  rose  12 percent to HK$11.76 in Hong Kong,
the biggest gain since April 2009. The Hong Kong’s Hang Seng
Index was little changed.  Orders for the second half are “solid,” Chief Executive
Officer  Bruce Rockowitz  said at an Aug. 13 press conference. Li
& Fung, whose customers include  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , and Target
Corp., has been pushing to revive its U.S. unit after weaker
demand has hurt those operations.  “The worst is behind us and we are on track to recovery in
2013,” the company said in its statement.  Net income  fell  16 percent to $96 million for the six
months ended June from a year earlier, missing an average
 estimate  of $106.3 million from three analysts compiled by
Bloomberg.  Core operating profit rose 1 percent to $223 million in the
first half. Second-half core operating profit will be 3 to 4
times that of the first half, Rockowitz said.  Operating earnings are set to pick up in the second half of
this year due to back-to-school and holiday season demand, the
outsourcer said.  Li & Fung’s order book is 80-85 percent filled, the same as
in previous years, according to Eddie Lau, a Citigroup analyst
who expects strong cash flow in the second half of the year as
the group’s earnings are skewing more to that period. He
reiterated his ‘buy’ rating.  Li & Fung gets more than 60 percent of its revenue from the
U.S. It has changed management and discontinued some brands to
revive its U.S. unit. That restructuring is on track to be
completed by the end of 2013, the company said.  LF USA is hitting bottom, Anne Ling, an analyst at Deutsche
Bank AG, said yesterday and she expects a strong recovery in
2014 for the group because of an improving U.S. economy. She
upgraded the stock to ‘buy’ from ‘hold.’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vinicy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  