-- IBM Said to Be Paying More Than $800 Million to Buy Trusteer
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r   a n d   D a v i d   W a i n e r
-- 2013-08-15T20:20:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/ibm-said-to-be-paying-more-than-800-million-to-acquire-trusteer.html
International Business Machines
Corp. (IBM) , the world’s largest seller of computer services, agreed
to buy Israeli security-software maker Trusteer Inc., giving it
fresh tools to fight the ever-escalating tactics of hackers.  IBM is paying more than $800 million for the company, said
a person familiar with the deal, who asked not to be identified
because financial terms weren’t disclosed. As part of the
transaction, IBM will form a cybersecurity software lab in
 Israel  with more than 200 researchers from both companies,
according to a statement today.  Trusteer sells software to protect financial institutions’
employees and customers from hackers. The startup, backed by
Israeli security entrepreneur Shlomo Kramer, aims to spot
threats conventional desktop programs miss, such as malicious
software on smartphones. IBM said Trusteer, which has offices in
 Tel Aviv  and  Boston , serves seven of the 10 largest U.S. banks.  “If we think of the most pressing problems which are
facing our clients today in security, a lot of it is related to
malware, fraud and sophisticated attacks,” Brendan Hannigan,
general manager of IBM’s security systems division, said in an
interview. “Trusteer had this strong technology that we didn’t
have within our division.”  He declined to discuss the purchase price.  Trusteer Chief Executive Officer Mickey Boodaei said his
company will be able to use IBM’s sales network to distribute
its products more widely.  IBM has been buying up smaller software companies, which
generally are more profitable than hardware and services
companies, as it seeks to reach $20 in adjusted  earnings per
share  by 2015, from $15.25 last year.  Cloud Expansion  The Trusteer acquisition is also part of Armonk, New York-based IBM’s efforts to expand cloud-computing offerings --
services delivered to customers from remote data centers.  In June, IBM agreed to buy Dallas-based SoftLayer
Technologies Inc., a cloud-computing storage provider that will
help it compete with Amazon.com Inc. IBM paid almost $2 billion
in that deal, a person familiar with the matter said at the
time. SoftLayer had $335 million in revenue in 2012.  IBM fell 0.9 percent to $185.79 at the close in New York.
The shares have dropped 3 percent this year.  Trusteer’s acquisition price of about $800 million was
previously reported in the Israeli press.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in  New York  at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net ;
David Wainer in Tel Aviv at 
 dwainer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  