-- Ibovespa Snaps Six-Day Rally on Brazil Inflation, Growth Concern
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2013-08-15T14:43:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/ibovespa-snaps-six-day-rally-on-brazil-inflation-growth-concern.html
The Ibovespa fell for the first time
in seven days as speculation that Brazil will raise fuel prices
stoked concern that policy makers may speed the pace of
interest-rate increases even as economic growth falters.  OGX Petroleo e Gas Participacoes SA , the oil company
controlled by  Eike Batista , tumbled after it said cash reserves
plunged 72 percent in the second quarter. B2W Cia. Digital led
losses by retailers as Brazilian swap rates, a gauge of
expectations for interest-rate moves, increased.  The Ibovespa lost 1 percent to 50,411.83 at 11:21 a.m. in
Sao Paulo. All but eight stocks on the 71-member index declined.
Economic activity, a proxy for gross domestic product in Latin
America’s largest economy, rose 2.35 percent in June from a year
earlier, trailing the median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg for a gain of 2.70 percent.  “There’s concern about what an increase in fuel prices now
would mean for inflation, which is already running at high
levels,”  Alvaro Bandeira , a partner at Rio de Janeiro-based
Orama Asset Management, said in a phone interview. “Economic
data still show weak growth, and on top of that now there’s a
possibility that the central bank will increase  interest rates 
further to deal with this additional pressure on inflation.”  Swap rates on the contract due in January 2015 rose 10
basis points, or 0.1 percentage point, to 10.12 percent. The
real weakened 0.9 percent to 2.3468 per dollar.  Brazil may authorize state-run Petroleo Brasileiro SA to
raise fuel prices to bolster profit, Sao Paulo-based newspaper
Valor Economico reported today, citing a person at the
presidential palace who it didn’t identify. The  Finance Ministry 
didn’t respond to a request for comment from  Bloomberg News .  OGX, LLX  B2W dropped 6 percent to 13.91 reais.  OGX sank 7.4 percent to 63 centavos. The producer posted an
adjusted net loss of 2 billion reais in the second quarter, more
than the average estimate of 1.74 billion reais among analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  LLX Logistica SA (LLXL3)  climbed 4 percent to 1.57 reais after
Washington-based private equity fund EIG Global Energy Partners
LLC agreed to buy a stake in the port developer, replacing
Batista as controlling shareholder.  The Ibovespa has gained 12 percent from this year’s low on
July 3 as higher commodities prices and a weaker real boosted
raw-material exporters. Brazil’s benchmark equity gauge trades
at 13.1 times analysts’  earnings estimates  for the next four
quarters, compared with 10.5 for the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index
of 21 developing nations’ equities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  