-- Michigan Muni Fund Lost 5% of Assets as Detroit Went Bust
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-08-15T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/michigan-muni-fund-lost-5-of-assets-as-detroit-went-bust.html
The biggest Michigan-focused
municipal-bond fund lost 5 percent of its assets to net
withdrawals last month as  Detroit  sank into bankruptcy,
according to Morningstar Inc.  Investors took $66 million from the $1.3 billion  Franklin
Resources Inc. (BEN)  portfolio, Morningstar said yesterday in a
report. It said muni-bond funds shrank by $10.2 billion in July,
half by those holding intermediate- and long-term bonds.  “The Detroit bankruptcy filing kept municipal-bond funds
in heavy redemptions,” Morningstar’s Michael Rawson said in the
report. “July marked the fifth straight month of outflows,” he
said, with net withdrawals of $29.7 billion for the period.  Government debt originating in  Michigan  has been less
attractive to investors after Detroit’s record bankruptcy filing
on July 18. At least three municipal issuers -- Genesee County,
 Battle Creek  and Saginaw County -- put off sales this month,
citing  interest rates  that were higher than they wanted to pay.
Kevyn Orr, Detroit’s emergency manager, has proposed paying some
general-obligation bondholders pennies on the dollar.  The  Franklin Michigan Tax-Free Income Fund (FTTMX)  is the biggest
of the 16 that focus on the eighth-largest U.S. state by
population, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
portfolio’s largest single  holding  as of June 28 was $37.5
million of Detroit water bonds that mature in July 2034 and are
backed by Assured Guaranty Municipal Corp., the data show.  Enhanced Credit  All the Detroit general-obligation bonds held by Franklin
funds are insured or backed by the state,  Matthew Walsh , a
spokesman for San Mateo, California-based Franklin, said by e-mail. He said no one from the company was available to comment
on the Michigan fund withdrawals.  Detroit, the biggest city in Michigan with about 700,000
residents, last month began the largest U.S. municipal
bankruptcy, listing about $18 billion in debt.  “The angst in the market isn’t really about Detroit in
isolation,” Municipal Market Advisors said this week in a
report, citing legal precedents that may be set by the case.  “Investment in Michigan local governments during this
period of uncertainty should take into account the potential
downside risk that could come with decisions from the Detroit
bankruptcy case,” according to the MMA report.  Franklin’s open-end Michigan fund has three out of five
stars from Morningstar, according to its  website . Its net asset
value  fell  to $11.44 on Aug. 13, the lowest since April 2011.
The fund has lost 5.6 percent this year, a smaller decline than
41 percent of its peers, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Morningstar, based in  Chicago , rates funds based on risk-adjusted returns compared with peers, according to its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  