-- Michigan ‘Right to Work’ Law Challenge Fails in Court
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-08-15T23:33:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/michigan-right-to-work-law-challenge-fails-in-court.html
Michigan ’s “right to work law”
barring union membership as a condition for government
employment applies to workers classified as civil service, a
court ruled.  Michigan’s intermediate level appellate court, in an
initial ruling in the dispute over the law’s scope, today
rejected union claims that only the state’s  Civil Service
Commission  has the authority to set terms of employment for
public workers covered by the system.  The unions’ argument that the measure passed by the state
legislature last year is unconstitutional was rejected by two of
three judges on the appeals court panel.  “Contrary to plaintiffs’ claim, it is within the authority
of the Legislature to pass laws on public policy matters in
general and particularly those, as here, that unquestionably
implicate constitutional rights of both union and non-union
public employees,” Judge Henry William Saad wrote.  Republican Governor  Rick Snyder  signed the measure into law
late last year after union supporters protested at the state’s
capitol in Lansing.  While Judge Pat Donofrio joined Saad in the court’s
majority ruling today, Judge Elizabeth Gleicher said her
colleagues’ decision “strips the CSC of its regulatory
supremacy.”  Michael Nicholson, an attorney for the Detroit-based UAW,
the union that’s the lead plaintiff in the case, didn’t
immediately reply to an after-hours voice-mail message seeking
comment on the decision.  Great Opportunity  State Attorney General Bill Schuette in a statement called
the ruling “a great opportunity for the hardworking women and
men of Michigan.”  “As the law is written, public sector employees will
receive the same freedoms and choices as private sector
employees,” he said. “Everyone will be treated equally.”  The case is UAW v. Green, 314781, Michigan Court of Appeals
(Troy).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at  aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  