-- Microsoft’s First Chip Brings Tank-Finding Design to Xbox
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 2013-08-15T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/microsoft-s-first-chip-brings-tank-finding-design-to-xbox.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , seeking to fend off
competition for its Xbox game console by souping up the Kinect
motion sensor, is tapping a new semiconductor developer: itself.  For the first time, the company will build its own
processors based on an in-house design. The new chips will make
Kinect more accurate and responsive using an imaging technology
found in military gear, said Cyrus Bamji, who played a key role
in developing the silicon architecture. Previously, Kinect
relied on an off-the-shelf chip from Israel’s PrimeSense Ltd.  Microsoft joins companies such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  that are doing
more work on chips internally to add exclusive features and set
their devices apart. Microsoft will package the Kinect with the
latest version of the Xbox later this year, adding $100 to its
price. Gamers who don’t see the value may be tempted to opt for
 Sony Corp. (6758) ’s $399 PlayStation 4, instead of Xbox One at $499.  “We are seeing a big trend towards more of the hardware
makers out there, whether it’s smartphones or whether it’s
tablets, starting to bring more of that semiconductor function
in-house,” said Jon Erensen, an analyst at market-research firm
Gartner Inc. “It allows them to differentiate. Everybody in the
market is using the same off-the-shelf processor.”  Time of Flight  Kinect is a  camera-based device  that connects to the Xbox
to let users translate body motions and voice commands into game
moves -- say, in a virtual tennis or car-racing game. The newest
version of the sensor will include TV controls.  The Kinect chips, designed by a team mostly based in
Microsoft’s Silicon Valley office, use a technology called Time
of Flight that will let the sensor track minute changes in a
user’s body, like finger movements and facial expressions, a
much more precise system than the earlier version. That lets
Microsoft eliminate some of the failings of the first Kinect,
Bamji said.  Time of Flight works by bouncing photons off a person or
object, and has been used by military agencies for tasks like
detecting a tank hiding behind tree cover, Bamji said. Texas
Instruments Inc. and Infineon Technologies AG are also
developing chips using Time of Flight.  When it goes on sale, Xbox One will face tough competition
from Sony’s new PlayStation 4, as well as  Nintendo Co. (7974) ’s Wii U.
Kinect in the past has largely appealed to kids and casual
gamers and hasn’t had much content targeted at serious gamers,
said Rob Sanfilippo, an analyst at Kirkland, Washington-based
Directions on Microsoft. The new version may still not lure
those customers from rivals.  Design Challenge  There’s also the challenge and cost of creating a new chip
from scratch, which can run into the tens of millions of dollars
and take months of testing. One mistake in design or
manufacturing slip-up can cause months of delay to a final
product. For a company like Microsoft, with less experience in
developing chips, there’s a risk that performance may not be as
expected, Gartner’s Erensen said.  Microsoft, which announced the shift in May, follows some
of the largest consumer-electronics makers in taking over more
of its own chip design. Apple’s  iPhone and iPad  run on
processors that the Cupertino, California-based company designs
itself and has manufactured by Samsung Electronics Co. While the
chips are based on ARM Holdings Plc technology, Apple customized
the layout and makeup of the chip’s components.  Samsung also is using more of its own chips in its mobile
phones, and LG Electronics Inc., HTC Corp. and Lenovo Group Ltd.
have all talked about it, Gartner’s Erensen said.  Taking Note  While Microsoft’s Xbox and WebTV units have previously done
some work designing chips, the company has never handled this
much of a chip’s design, development and assembly, said
Microsoft Distinguished Engineer  Nick Baker , who leads the
silicon architecture and verification teams. The company has
about 200 people working on microprocessors. Only the mass
manufacturing for the Kinect chips has been handed off to a chip
foundry, Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co.  Other groups at Microsoft are taking notice, asking the
Xbox team about their work on chips, and may even pursue a
greater role in customizing their own microprocessors, said  Todd
Holmdahl , the vice president who has overseen Xbox hardware
since the development of the first version in 1999.  Custom Features  The world’s largest software maker first moved into making
its own computer hardware last year with a line of tablets
called Surface. The company could choose to customize existing
chips in order to gain attention and new features for Microsoft-powered smartphones and tablets, which have a tiny share of both
those markets, Directions on Microsoft’s Sanfilippo said.  “It’s pretty likely that Microsoft will be getting more
into the hardware business,” he said. “So it makes sense for
them to invest more right down to the silicon so they can have
proprietary features.”  That investment may be crucial to the continued success of
Xbox, the bright spot among Microsoft’s consumer businesses,
especially as  sales  of the company’s Windows personal-computer
software stagnate and as Surface demand disappoints. Xbox
accounted for the bulk of revenue in Microsoft’s $10.2 billion
Entertainment and Devices division.  The appeal of Xbox One will rest partially on whether the
new chips improve on the previous Kinect. After Nintendo Co.’s
Wii introduced a handheld controller than let gamers play by
swinging and moving the device, Kinect pushed the envelope
further by integrating full-body motion and voice into games.
For some customers, it hasn’t delivered on its initial promise.  “I’m unhappy with the way it works,” Sanfilippo said of
the current Kinect. “And I’m not sure if I would want the
device if I upgrade to an Xbox One. The selling point from
Microsoft is that this one is more accurate and faster.”  Precision Needed  The PrimeSense chip in the previous Kinect, which sold 24
million units, or about one for every three Xbox 360 machines,
didn’t provide the precision and responsiveness that Microsoft
needed for the device. That version has trouble reading the
motions of small children, seated players and low-light
situations, Holmdahl said.  The new iteration handles those situations better and can
pick up even small changes, such as a finger movement, facial
expressions and heart rate, he said, and has a field of view
that’s 60 percent bigger than the previous Kinect.  As the new Xbox is rolled out for the holiday shopping
season, Microsoft will see whether the new chips can make Kinect
a bigger draw for both families and hard-core gamers -- and help
justify Xbox One’s premium price.  “It’s super-important,” Holmdahl said. “We have an
opportunity to change the living room.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  