-- High-Yield Bond Rally Heads for Seventh Week on Europe Stimulus
-- B y   N a t a s h a   D o f f
-- 2013-08-15T11:43:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/high-yield-bond-rally-heads-for-seventh-week-on-europe-stimulus.html
Junk bonds  are rallying for a
seventh week, the longest streak since January, amid confidence
that European central banks will maintain stimulus measures even
as the economy emerges from recession.  The extra yield investors demand to hold speculative-grade
securities rather than government debt declined 12 basis points
to 382 basis points this week, according to Bloomberg bond index
data. The spread has narrowed 62 basis points this year, the
data show.  The European Central Bank is showing few signs of paring
stimulus measures in the euro area even after Europe’s two
largest economies helped to pull the region out of its longest
recession. ECB President  Mario Draghi  has described progress in
the region as “tentative” and pledged to keep interest rates
at their lowest levels for an “extended period.”  “It’s too early for the European data to be a game
changer” said  Nick Burns , a credit strategist at  Deutsche Bank
AG (DBK)  in London. “We need to see if there will be a continued
improvement,”  Moody’s Investors Service lowered its forecast for the
global speculative-grade debt default rate to 3 percent for 2013
from last month’s projection of 3.1 percent, the ratings company
said in an Aug. 9 report. Junk, or high-yield, securities are
rated below BBB- by Standard & Poor’s and Baa3 by Moody’s.  “In a low-default world investors are still going to be
searching for yield, so they will continue to be attracted to
the high-yield space,” Burns said.  Bonds of  New World Resources Plc (NWR)  are leading gains among
high-yield securities in Europe today, returning as much as 4.5
percent and reducing year-to-date losses to 54 percent,
according to Bloomberg bond index data. The Czech coking-coal
producer’s 7.875 percent notes due January 2021 have gained 26.5
percent so far in August, the index show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natasha Doff in London at 
 ndoff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  