-- Imperial Tobacco to Introduce Cigarette Alternative Next Year
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2013-08-15T07:28:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/imperial-tobacco-to-introduce-cigarette-alternative-next-year.html
Imperial Tobacco Group Plc (IMT) , Europe’s
second-biggest tobacco company, plans to introduce an
alternative nicotine product next year in an effort to catch up
with competitors such as  British American Tobacco Plc. (BATS)   Imperial is “on track to launch our own products in 2014”
through the Fontem Ventures unit, the Bristol, England-based
company said today in a statement as it reported a 1 percent
drop in underlying revenue in the nine months ended June 30.  “This is the first time Imperial has confirmed that it
plans to launch something in that space next year,” said  Erik Bloomquist , a tobacco analyst at Berenberg Bank in  London .
“It’s an important step forward for the company.”  Imperial has been trailing the likes of BAT and  Philip
Morris International Inc. (PM)  in developing alternative nicotine
products and electronic cigarettes in response to stricter
government constraints on smoking.  Imperial  shares  rose as much as 3 percent in early London
trading, the steepest intraday gain since May 2. The stock was
up 2 percent at 2,198 pence at 8:27 a.m.  The “required development” of e-cigarettes could help
boost Imperial Tobacco’s sales outlook, Nomura International
analyst David Hayes said in a note before today’s announcement.  BAT last month started selling Vype electronic cigarettes
online in the U.K. and is anticipating the country’s approval by
the end of the year for another alternative product that
delivers nicotine via aerosol technology.  Imperial Tobacco  has
so far declined to say what kind of products it is developing.  Plain Packaging  The maker of Davidoff and Gauloises Blondes reported its
first drop in earnings in 17 years in the first half of the year
as the euro crisis weighed on sales growth.  “Whilst opportunities to grow sales in the short term are
being impacted by the environment challenges, we remain focused
on generating high quality returns and sustainable growth from
our portfolio,” Chief Executive Officer Alison Cooper said
today. “Our full-year expectations remain unchanged.”  The U.K. market leader has also campaigned against the
possible introduction of plain packaging in its home country and
scored a victory July 12 when Health Minister  Jeremy Hunt 
announced that the government needs more time to assess the
effect of a similar policy in  Australia .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  