-- India’s Singh Says Submarine Accident Painful
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l   a n d   K a r t i k a y   M e h r o t r a
-- 2013-08-15T07:46:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/india-s-singh-says-submarine-accident-painful.html
India ’s Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  said the likely death of 18 sailors from a blast on board
a diesel-powered submarine was “all the more painful” given
the nation’s recent strides in modernizing its military.  In an Independence Day speech in New Delhi today, Singh
said the nation is “deeply pained that we lost the submarine.”
“We pay homage to the brave hearts we have lost,” he said. The
loss follows the Navy’s recent induction of its first nuclear
submarine and the unveiling of a new aircraft carrier.  The explosion and subsequent fire inside the INS
Sindhurakshak at a navy dock in Mumbai yesterday is a setback
for the navy as the country seeks to bolster its military amid a
buildup by neighbor  China . On Aug. 10, India activated the
atomic reactor on its first indigenously built submarine, and
two days later showcased its first homegrown aircraft carrier.  The Sindhurakshak, whose name means “protector of the
ocean,” is a Russian-built Kilo class submarine that returned
to Mumbai earlier this year after a $133 million refit at a
shipyard in  Russia , according to India’s defense ministry.  The explosion was the worst-ever disaster for India’s
submarine program, according to Uday Bhaskar, a former Indian
Navy commodore and now a defense analyst at the Society for
Policy Studies in New Delhi.  Cause Unknown  The blast occurred at the dockyard less than a mile from
the financial capital’s luxury  Taj Mahal  hotel. It took the
Mumbai fire brigade more than two hours to bring the blaze under
control as flames illuminated the night sky.  Navy Chief Admiral D.K. Joshi said at a press conference
yesterday that the fire was caused by two almost simultaneous
explosions. While the cause of the fire is not known, it could
have been triggered by ammunition, fuel or oxygen bottles on
board, he said.  Divers have managed to open one of the vessel’s escape
hatches and are attempting to create watertight compartments so
the sub could be emptied of water and re-floated for
examination. The number of casualties was lower because only the
night-watch team was aboard, he said.  In 2010, a sailor was killed by a fire that broke out in
the battery compartment while the submarine was docked at a
base in southern India,  Press Trust of India  reported at the
time. The ship was sent for an overhaul in Russia later that
year.  Ambitions Dented  Rahul Bedi, an analyst and correspondent for Jane’s Defense
Weekly, said yesterday the sinking was a major blow to the
country’s naval ambitions, with only about half the sanctioned
number of submarines now available.  “The submarine fleet has been a worry for the navy for
many, many years but for reasons of inefficiency the ministry of
defense has taken it very lightly,” Bedi said.  India plans to increase its  defense spending  by 14 percent
in the next financial year as it modernizes its military to
counter traditional rivals as well as China’s rising influence.  In the last week, India has achieved two milestones,
activating the nuclear reactor aboard the INS Arihant submarine,
and displaying its first home-built  aircraft carrier  at a
shipyard in the southern city of Kochi. The 37,500-ton vessel
won’t enter active service for several years.  India’s navy has a fleet of 15 submarines, including 10
diesel-electric vessels similar to Sindhurakshak. They have a
maximum diving depth of 300 meters (984 feet), a top speed of 18
knots and are able to operate for 45 days with a crew of 53
people, according to the navy’s website.  India last year inducted a Russian-built nuclear-powered
attack submarine into its navy at a cost of $900 million that
allows longer missions and a faster response to threats. The
rest of the submarines are more than a decade old, with half of
the fleet commissioned in the 1980s.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew MacAskill in  New Delhi  at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net ;
Kartikay Mehrotra in New Delhi at 
 kmehrotra2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net ;
Sam Nagarajan at 
 samnagarajan@bloomberg.net  