-- Indonesia Raises Reserve Ratio to Aid Rupiah as Rate Held
-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g
-- 2013-08-15T12:26:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/indonesia-holds-rate-to-support-growth-at-slowest-in-three-years.html
Indonesia  ordered lenders to set
aside more funds in government and central bank bonds as
slowing growth deterred policy makers from raising the key
 interest rate  for a third meeting to support the currency.  The central bank boosted its secondary reserve requirement,
comprising a combination of  government bonds  and Bank Indonesia
certificates, to 4 percent from 2.5 percent, it said in Jakarta
today. The benchmark  reference rate  was held at 6.5 percent, as
predicted by 16 of 25 economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News ,
with the rest forecasting an increase.  Indonesia is contending with easing growth at a time when
higher fuel costs spurred the fastest inflation in more than
four years and the rupiah trades at the weakest level since
2009. The central bank’s steps to support the currency have
pushed foreign-exchange reserves to the lowest in nearly three
years, forcing officials to use other policy tools to rein in
liquidity and cool  inflation  expectations.  “The macro-prudential measures could tighten liquidity and
provide some near-term support to the rupiah,” said Chua Hak Bin, an economist at Bank of America Corp. in  Singapore . “We
see limited near-term impact on the inflation dynamics from
these measures. We think that inflation would likely head
higher in the next two months.”  Subsidy Cuts  Consumer prices rose 8.61 percent in July from a year
earlier after a 5.9 percent gain in June, the government said
earlier this month. President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono  in June
raised domestic fuel prices for the first time since 2008 to
cut subsidy costs.  The rupiah fell 0.6 percent to 10,350 per dollar today,
prices compiled by Bloomberg from local banks show. It has
fallen about 7 percent so far this year and today touched its
lowest level since June 2009.  The yield on 5.625 percent government bonds due May
2023 has climbed 2.05 percentage points in the past 12 months
to 7.96 percent, prices from the Inter Dealer Market
Association show. It reached 8.3 percent on July 16, the
highest level since March 2011.  Bank Indonesia was the first in the region to raise
benchmark rates this year. The monetary authority has also
intervened to support the currency as the nation’s foreign-exchange  reserves  fell for a third month in July to $92.7
billion, data showed yesterday.  More Reserves  Indonesia last ordered banks to set aside more cash as
reserves in 2010 after inflation accelerated. Lenders are
currently required to set aside 8 percent of their deposits as
primary reserves.  Primary reserves and the secondary reserve requirement are
used to determine how much commercial lenders need to place in
deposits at the central bank to manage liquidity in the banking
system. Today’s move suggests an increase in reserve
requirements of around $4 billion across the banking system,
Roland Randall, a Singapore-based economist at Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd, said in a note.  Bank Indonesia  also said today the loan-to-deposit ratio,
or how much of its funds a lender gives out in loans, should be
between a range of 78 percent and 92 percent, from as much as
100 percent previously. Banks with loan-to-deposit ratios above
the upper limit of the range, and a capital adequacy ratio
below 14 percent, will have to put in additional reserves with
the central bank, according to Credit Suisse Group AG.  Strengthen Banks  “The reinforcement of macro-prudential policy, including
the optimalization of LDR-Reserve Requirement and Secondary
Reserve Requirement is also aimed to strengthen the banks’
resilience in coping with risks as well as to maintain the
financial system stability,” the central bank said in a
statement today.  Monetary policy  will focus on stabilizing the currency and
inflation, and keeping the current-account deficit at
manageable levels, Deputy Governor Perry Warjiyo said on Aug. 2.
When the central bank is confident its targets are achievable,
it will move toward supporting growth, Warjiyo said.  “The economy has slowed over the last 12 months and by
aggressively tightening rates, the bank runs the risk of
quelling domestic activity -- the main driver of growth,”  Fred Gibson , a Sydney-based economist at Moody’s Analytics, said
before the decision. “Tightening rates further would be a
larger policy misstep.”  Gross domestic product  grew 5.81 percent in the three
months ended June 30 from a year earlier, compared with a
revised 6.03 percent pace for the first quarter. The central
bank sees expansion this year at the lower end of its forecast
range of 5.8 percent to 6.2 percent, it reiterated today.  “Lukewarm exports, coupled with weaker purchasing power
due to rising inflation, have slowed household consumption and
non-construction investment,” the central bank said. “In the
future, the risks of an economic downturn remains high.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  