-- Industrial Output in U.S. Was Unchanged in July, Fed Says
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2013-08-15T14:41:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/industrial-production-in-u-s-was-unchanged-in-july-fed-says.html
Industrial production in the U.S.
was unchanged in July as a slowdown at factories overshadowed an
increase in mining.  The reading for output at factories, mines and utilities
followed a 0.2 percent gain the prior month that was smaller
than previously reported, a report from the Federal Reserve
showed today in Washington. The median forecast in a Bloomberg
survey of 82 economists called for a 0.3 percent rise in July.
Manufacturing, which makes up 75 percent of total production,
declined for the first time in three months.  Two regional Fed reports today showed production expanded
in the New York and Philadelphia districts this month, signaling
factories are resuming their expansion. Low interest rates are
spurring sales of new cars and homes, benefiting companies from
 General Motors Co. (GM)  to  United Technologies Corp. (UTX)   “Industrial production growth should start accelerating,”
said Douglas Handler, Lexington, Massachusetts-based chief U.S.
economist at IHS Global Insight, which accurately forecast that
output would be unchanged. “Consumer spending is looking
healthy and we’re seeing broad increases in business
investment.”  Manufacturing in the Philadelphia region expanded in August
for the third straight month. The Federal Reserve Bank of
Philadelphia’s general economic index fell to 9.3 from a reading
of 19.8 in July that was the highest since March 2011. Readings
greater than zero signal growth in the area, which covers
eastern  Pennsylvania , southern New Jersey and  Delaware .  New York  A similar report from the Federal Reserve Bank of New York
showed  manufacturing (IPMGCHNG)  in New York, northern New Jersey and
southern  Connecticut  expanded in August for a third month. The
so-called Empire State  index  fell to 8.2 from 9.5 in July.  Other reports today showed initial claims for unemployment
benefits fell last week to the lowest level since October 2007,
and the cost of living rose in July for a third month,
supporting the Fed’s forecast that inflation will move closer to
its target.  Stocks tumbled, with U.S. benchmark indexes reaching one-month lows, as the economic data triggered losses in government
bonds that sent Treasury yields to two-year highs.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slid 1.4 percent, the most
since June, as Cisco Systems Inc. and Wal-Mart Stores Inc.
tumbled after forecasts disappointed investors. Yields on 10-year notes touched 2.8 percent for the first time since August
2011.  Estimates for industrial production in the Bloomberg survey
ranged from a drop of 0.3 percent to an increase of 0.9 percent.
The prior month was previously reported as a gain of 0.3
percent.  Manufacturing Declines  Manufacturing, which accounts for about 12 percent of the
economy, declined 0.1 percent after rising 0.2 percent.  Today’s Fed report also showed that  capacity  utilization,
which measures the amount of plants that are in use, fell to
77.6 percent from 77.7 percent the prior month.  Utility output  fell 2.1 percent, the fourth straight drop.
Mining production, which includes oil drilling, increased 2.1
percent.  The output of motor vehicles and parts decreased 1.7
percent after a 1.2 percent gain a month earlier, today’s report
showed. Excluding autos and parts, manufacturing was unchanged
after a 0.1 percent increase.  Car Sales  Even so, the automobile industry is underpinning an
improved longer-term outlook.  Cars and trucks  sold at a 15.7
million annualized rate last month after a 15.8 million pace in
June, the strongest back-to-back readings since the end of 2007,
figures from Ward’s Automotive Group showed. GM, Ford Motor Co.,
Chrysler Group LLC, and Honda Motor Co. are among carmakers that
plan to boost capacity.  Details of the industrial production data released today
also showed machinery production fell 1 percent after rising 1.5
percent, and construction materials rose 0.5 percent for the
second month. Output of computers and electronics fell 0.1
percent.  Consumer goods production dropped 0.5 percent, while output
of business equipment was unchanged.  Orders in the U.S. are improving going into the second
half, said  Louis Chenevert , chairman and chief executive officer
of United Technologies, the Hartford, Connecticut-based maker of
Pratt & Whitney engines and Otis elevators.  Housing Market  “The housing market, for example, for us has been robust
this year,” Chenevert said at an Aug. 13 conference. “When you
sell furnaces in June, July, it’s a good sign. That means there
is new construction.”  In addition, “Europe looks like it’s maybe bottomed out.
 China  continues to be robust for us.  India  offers us some nice
opportunity,” along with South America and  Russia , he said.  The euro-area economy emerged from a record-long recession
in the second quarter, led by Germany and  France . Gross domestic
product in the 17-nation euro area rose 0.3 percent in the
April-June period after a 0.3 percent contraction in the prior
three months, the European Union’s statistics office in
Luxembourg said yesterday.  The U.S. economy may expand at a 2.3 percent annualized
pace in the third quarter, after growing at a 1.7 percent rate
in the prior three months, according to a Bloomberg survey of
economists from Aug. 2 to Aug. 6.  Retail sales  rose in July for a fourth consecutive month,
showing American households are regaining momentum as employment
climbs. Purchases of new U.S. homes rose in June to the highest
level in five years, signaling gains in residential construction
that will support production of related goods, from furniture to
appliances.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  