-- Mining at ‘Breaking Point’ as Investors Flee, Gold Fields Says
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2013-08-15T19:22:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/mining-at-breaking-point-as-investors-flee-gold-fields-says.html
The  mining industry  is at a
“breaking point” as calls from governments and workers for a
greater cut of profits hasten an investor exodus,  Gold Fields
Ltd. (GFI)  said.  “Governments in particular are seeing mining as a means of
putting more into their central coffers,” Chief Executive
Officer  Nick Holland  said today in a speech in Johannesburg. “A
lot of it has come about because of the metal boom that we’ve
seen.” The “equity model is at breaking point,” he said in an
accompanying slide show.  Australia, Namibia and  Zimbabwe  are among nations that have
sought to expand their share of profits from natural resources
in the past three years by raising mining taxes or favoring
state control of projects. In  South Africa , where Gold Fields is
based, labor unions, companies and the government are vying for
a larger share of revenues even as commodity prices slide.  The infighting will encourage investors to flee, causing
the industry to shrink and hurting all parties, Holland said.
Protecting investor rights will help countries make the most of
their resources, he said.  The HSBC Global Mining Index has lost 29 percent since the
start of 2010, while the  Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDU)  is up 47
percent and the  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  22 percent. While the financial
crisis in  Europe  and a sell-off in gold are partly to blame,
resource nationalism has also spurred investors to sell mining
stocks, according to Holland.  Investor Frustration  “Equity investors are frustrated,” he said. “We’ve spent
a lot of their money and given them very little back for it.
They keep reminding us of that.”  The world’s biggest mining companies are cutting costs,
selling assets and scrapping expansion plans to counter lower
prices. Investors have pressured new CEOs at  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ,
Rio Tinto Group and  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  to boost returns to
shareholders and defer new mines amid waning commodity demand.  “There are many hundreds of billions of dollars not being
spent,” Holland said. “We haven’t yet seen the impact that
that’s going to have on economies going forward. You’re going to
see it in years to come.”  Anglo is among companies operating in Zimbabwe, where
President  Robert Mugabe  this month reiterated his determination
to take a 51 percent stake in foreign-owned projects for the
state or for black Zimbabweans.  Mine Nationalizations  Elsewhere in Africa, Tanzania and Namibia have studied
imposing a “super-profit tax” on mines, while in South Africa,
former African National Congress youth leader  Julius Malema  in
July formed a political party that favors nationalizing mines.
In Australia, the government last year passed laws to place a 30
percent tax rate on iron-ore and coal-mining profits.  While it’s governments’ “duty” to maximize the benefits
of their natural resources for their people, investors must also
be allowed to make returns, according to Holland.  “We need investors,” he said. “There’s a lot of capital
needed to build these operations. The lead times are long and
the risks are high.” They need a “reasonable rate of return,”
he said.  One mining job supports 27 other people, either dependents
or other workers, Holland said. Each 1 percentage point increase
in mining growth adds 2.6 percentage points to countries’ gross
domestic product due to the industry boosting other parts of the
economy, he said.  Companies are partly to blame for the assault on profits by
states and workers by failing to report costs transparently,
according to Holland, who is promoting a new accounting method
for “all-in costs” that includes  capital spending .  Companies must work with governments, workers, investors
and communities to expand the industry rather than fighting over
profits, Holland said, citing Peru, Chile, Botswana and Zambia
as nations where cooperation has been successful.  The industry can either take the high road and start
collaborating and forming partnerships, which will increase
investments, he said. “Or we can keep on fighting each other
for a higher share of a diminishing pie.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in Johannesburg at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  