-- Investec Lured by Nigeria Banks on Rebound From Discount
-- B y   J a c o   V i s s e r   a n d   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2013-08-16T13:09:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/investec-lured-by-nigerian-banks-as-south-african-premium-closes.html
Nigerian banks are rebounding from a
record discount to lenders in South  Africa  as growth prospects
for the continent’s two largest economies diverge. Investec
Asset Management says the rally has further to run.  The Nigerian Stock Exchange Banking 10 Index has increased
19 percent this year compared with a 3.4 percent drop for South
Africa’s six-company FTSE/JSE Africa Banks Index and a 8.2
percent decline for the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Banks Index. South
African lenders trade at a premium of 2.4 times to their
Nigerian peers on a price-to-book basis, down from a record 2.7
times in January.  Guaranty Trust Bank Plc (GUARANTY)  to  Ecobank (ETI)  Transnational Inc. and
Zenith Bank Plc are benefiting from financing oil, gas and power
projects in Nigeria while bad debts fall as the International
Monetary Fund predicts Africa’s second-largest economy will grow
7.2 percent this year. In South Africa, consumers are struggling
to repay loans, curbing profit at companies including  Standard
Bank (SBK)  Group Ltd. as the jobless rate climbs and the IMF forecasts
2013 growth of 2 percent, the slowest since the 2009 recession.  “Nigerian banks do look favorable,” Mishnah Seth, a banks
analyst at Investec, which manages the equivalent of $105
billion, said by phone from Cape Town Aug. 8. “From a valuation
perspective they’re cheaper” than their South African peers.
“They’ll give you superior growth” over the next two years,
she said.  Nigerian lenders are extending a second year of gains after
a debt crisis in 2008 and 2009, sparked by loans that soured
after speculators wrongly bet against an increase in equities.
The Central Bank of Nigeria, led by Governor Lamido Sanusi, 52,
fired the heads of eight banks four years ago, pumped 620
billion naira ($3.9 billion) into ailing lenders and created a
state-owned company to buy bad debts to stabilize the industry.  Leading Gains  The  benchmark  banking index sank 34 percent in 2009, rose
26 percent the following year than dropped another 32 percent in
2011 before advancing 24 percent last year.  United Bank for
Africa Plc  is leading gains this year with a 78 percent increase
followed by Union Bank Nigeria Plc and Diamond Bank Plc.  Skye
Bank Plc (SKYEBANK)  is the only lender in the index to retreat in 2013.  Nigeria’s publicly-traded banks are set for profit growth
of about 20 percent a year over the next two to three years,
Investec’s Seth said. That compares with estimated earnings
growth this year of 9.8 percent at Johannesburg-based Standard
Bank, which owns Nigeria’s Stanbic IBTC, and 13 percent growth
for 2014, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Asset sales and expansion plans are buoying demand for
Nigerian banks. The government of Africa’s top oil producer is
selling stakes in power plants and transmission and electricity
distribution companies spun out of the former state-owned
utility.  ‘Pretty Expansionary’  Phone companies, including  MTN Group Ltd. (MTN)  and Globacom
Ltd., plan to invest at least $5 billion in Nigeria in
anticipation that the market, already Africa’s biggest with 114
million subscriptions, will expand to 200 million by 2017,
according to Informa Telecoms & Media estimates.  “There’s a lot for the banks to do,” Ronak Gadhia, an
African equity analyst at Exotix Ltd., said by phone from
 London . “Telecommunication companies are pretty expansionary,
oil and gas still needs quite a lot of investments.”  South African banks deserve to trade at a premium to
lenders in Nigeria because of the West African nation’s
regulatory environment, Peter Mushangwe, an analyst at
Johannesburg-based Legae Securities, said in an e-mailed
response to questions.  “We view 2012 as having been largely a recovery phase,
which includes earnings recovery and stability to asset quality,
but we are not yet in a normal valuation phase, as is the case
with South African banks,” he said. “It will come but it may
take its time.”  Regulatory Changes  Nigeria’s central bank introduced a 50 percent cash-reserve
requirement on public sector funds on July 23 after highlighting
the risk of excess liquidity in the banking system. The
regulation, which applies to about 1.3 trillion naira of
deposits, could result in 500 billion naira of liquidity being
withdrawn, increasing  funding  costs and hurting profitability,
Fitch Ratings said July 31 in a statement.  Investors are overlooking other risks such as Islamist
militants, who have killed thousands of people in northern
Nigeria and attacked oil and communication facilities, to gain a
foothold in a country at a different stage of development.  The gross domestic product of Nigeria, the continent’s most
populous nation with more than 160 million people, may exceed
that of South Africa by 2016, according to Renaissance Capital,
the investment bank owned by Russian billionaire  Mikhail
Prokhorov . Currently, Nigeria ranks 139th out of 174 countries
in Transparency International’s  Corruption  Perceptions Index,
compared with 69 for South Africa.  Price Discount  Barclays Africa Group Ltd. (BGA) , which owns South Africa’s Absa,
the nation’s third-largest lender, trades at about 11 times
profit, on par with Nedbank, the fourth-largest. Guaranty,
Nigeria’s largest, has a price-to-equity ratio of 8.2, compared
with Ecobank’s ratio of 4.6. Nedbank has an option to buy 20
percent of the Lome, Togo-based Ecobank. The banks all declined
to comment or didn’t immediately respond to requests for comment
on valuations.  Even with tighter monetary policy, Nigerian lenders are
forecasting loan-book growth of 20 percent this year, Gregory Kronsten and Olubunmi Asaolu, analysts at FBN Capital Ltd. in
London, wrote in an Aug. 5 note. “More rapid growth would in
our view potentially create a bubble reminiscent of 2007 and
2008,” they said.  Impaired Records  Standard Bank increased its loan book by 12 percent in the
first half, while losses on bad debts soared 29 percent, the
Johannesburg-based company said in a statement yesterday,
without giving estimates on growth.  Nedbank (NED)  sees an increase of
5 percent to 10 percent in loans in the second half, the lender
said Aug. 6. Barclays Africa on July 30 forecast “mid-single
digit loan growth” this year. Poor asset growth is a key risk
to South African lenders’ earnings, Legae’s Mushangwe said.  The number of South Africans with impaired credit records
rose by 189,000 to 9.53 million in the first quarter, the
National Credit Regulator said in June.  In Nigeria “credit risk is still not significant given the
clean up that they did in the crisis,” Exotix’s Gadhia said.
“Profitability should remain fairly strong.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net ;
Jaco Visser in Johannesburg at 
 avisser3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  