-- Iran’s Rohani Wins Parliament's Approval for 15 Ministers
-- B y   K a m b i z   F o r o o h a r
-- 2013-08-15T19:57:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/iran-s-rohani-wins-parliament-s-approval-for-15-ministers.html
Iranian President Hassan Rohaniwon
parliamentary approval for 15 of his cabinet nominees, including
the candidates for foreign and oil minister, overcoming
conservative opposition.  The parliament today approved Rohani’s choices of U.S.-
educated Mohammad Javad Zarif for foreign minister and former
oil minister Bijan Namdar Zanganeh to return to that post. The
assembly rejected three ministerial candidates.  Rohani, who took office on Aug. 4 after his victory in
June, had vowed to repair  Iran ’s economy and improve the
country’s relations with the West. Sanctions imposed by the U.S.
and the European Union over  Iran’s nuclear program  have halved
Iran’s oil exports.  “The situation of the country is complex in all fronts,”
Rohani, 64, said in an address to the assembly before the vote.
“People’s eyes are cast on your votes.”  Zarif, a former UN ambassador, was involved in secret
negotiations with the U.S. to determine the makeup of the post-Taliban Afghan government.  Zanganeh survived the vote after being criticized for his
handling of the oil ministry during the presidency of Mohammad
Khatami. Zanganeh outlined a plan to increase oil production
during his nomination hearings.  Conservative members of the parliament attacked Rohani’s
nominees for having a Western education and close ties to the
leaders of the Green Movement opposition, whose leaders are
under house arrest.  The parliament rejected Mohammad Ali Najafi, Rohani’s
choice for education minister, and Jafar Milimonfared for
science, research and technology minister, for playing a role in
the unrest that followed the disputed 2009 re-election of
 Mahmoud Ahmadinejad .  A third minister, Masoud Soltanifar, was turned down as
sports and youth minister.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kambiz Foroohar in  New York  at 
 kforoohar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  