-- Israel Inflation Rate Rises in July on Indirect Tax Increase
-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 2013-08-15T15:30:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/israel-inflation-rate-rises-in-july-on-indirect-tax-increase.html
Israel ’s  inflation  rate climbed in
July for a third month after the government increased sales
taxes.  Annual inflation accelerated to 2.2 percent from 2 percent,
the Jerusalem-based Central Bureau of Statistics reported today.
The median estimate in a Bloomberg  survey  of 10 economists was
2.2 percent. Consumer prices increased 0.3 percent from the
previous month. The government target range for annual inflation
is 1 percent to 3 percent.  “Only indirect taxes are driving inflation,” said Victor Bahar, deputy manager of Bank Hapoalim Ltd.’s economics
department, before the announcement. “You can’t see any
evidence of strong internal demand.”  Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s government raised taxes
to reduce the budget deficit, after growth slowed and revenue
fell short of expectations. The Bank of Israel kept rates
unchanged at the end of June and July, after cutting twice in
May to help boost growth, bringing the benchmark to 1.25
percent, the lowest since March 2010.  Economic  growth  is forecast to slow to 3.2 percent in 2014,
from 3.8 percent this year, the central bank said June 24.  Value-added taxes were increased by 1 percentage point to
18 percent on June 1, and some “leftover” effect was felt in
July, Bahar said. The sales tax on alcohol was raised at the
beginning of July. The increases were partially offset by a 1.2
percent decline in the price of gasoline,  Bank Hapoalim (POLI)  said in
a July 17 report.  House prices, which aren’t included in the consumer price
index but are reported at the same time, are a focus of
attention for the bank, Bahar said. They have declined in the
past two months after a 10 percent jump over two years,
according to preliminary figures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  