-- Ten-Year Treasury Yields Surge; Stocks Fall, Metals Gain
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n   a n d   A l e x   B a r i n k a
-- 2013-08-16T20:19:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/japan-futures-sink-as-treasuries-drop-on-jobs-gold-gains.html
Treasuries slid, sending 10-year
yields to a two-year high, amid bets the  Federal Reserve  will
reduce its bond purchases next month. U.S. stocks fell,
extending the worst week for the  Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDU)  in
14 months. Metals rallied after housing starts increased.  Rates on benchmark 10-year notes surged six basis points to
2.83 percent, the highest since July 2011. The S&P 500 Index
decreased 0.3 percent to a five-week low of 1,655.83 and the Dow
extended its weekly loss to 2.2 percent. Copper rose 1.3 percent
to $7,400 a metric ton and zinc, lead and aluminum added at
least 1.9 percent. India’s Sensex index sank the most since 2011
as the rupee dropped to a record. Brazil’s real slid against all
major peers after the finance minister said a weaker currency is
good for local industry.  U.S. housing starts climbed 5.9 percent to an 896,000
annualized rate in July from a revised 846,000 pace in June that
was higher than previously reported, Commerce Department figures
showed today. Another report indicated consumer confidence
slipped this month. The Fed will reduce its monthly bond
purchases next month, according to 65 percent of economists in a
Bloomberg survey published this week.  “It does feel like the  U.S. economy  is gaining a bit of
momentum,” said William Hobbs, head of equity strategy at
Barclays Plc’s wealth-management unit. “Investors have been
trying to decide whether good news is bad news,” he said.
“What might freak the markets out now is the pace of
tapering.”  Bond Moves  Rates on 30-year bonds jumped three basis points to 3.84
percent, also the highest since 2011, while two-year yields were
little changed at 0.34 percent.  The difference between yields on five- and 10-year notes
widened to almost the most in two years, suggesting investors
are betting faster growth will lead to higher long-term
borrowing rates. Data yesterday showing improvement in the jobs
market reinforced expectations the Fed will cut stimulus.  Among stocks moving today in the U.S., Nordstrom Inc.
dropped 4.9 percent, the most in 14 months, after the department
store chain cut its annual sales forecast. Aspen Technology Inc.
jumped 7.9 percent after reporting fourth-quarter revenue that
beat analysts’ predictions. Pandora Media Inc. added 2.5 percent
after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. raised its rating on the stock.  The  S&P 500  lost 2.1 percent this week, the most since
June, and has retreated more than 3.1 percent since reaching its
last record on Aug. 2.  ’’The market still feels fragile, we are still in a risk-off environment,’’ Tom Mangan, who helps oversee about $4.4
billion as a  money manager  at James Investment Research Inc. in
Xenia,  Ohio , said in a telephone interview. “The fear component
has got the upper hand. That’s not surprising. There is plenty
of reason to be conservative here and cautious, but there is no
reason to be super bearish.”  VIX Futures  Investors seeking shelter from yesterday’s $100 billion
stock selloff pushed volume to a two-month high in U.S. equity
volatility futures, contracts that have already seen more
trading in 2013 than all of last year.  About 234,000 futures contracts on the Chicago Board
Options Exchange Volatility Index, or the VIX, changed hands
yesterday. That’s the most since June 21, as the  S&P 500 (SPX)  reached
a one-month low, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Trading in the securities has exceeded 24.7 million since
January, 5 percent more than the 2012 total and double the level
from 2011.  Use of  VIX futures  has surged as money managers look for
ways to hedge gains during the biggest  bull market  since the
1990s technology bubble.  An index of homebuilders jumped as much as 3.4 percent
today, before paring its gain to 0.1 percent. The median
estimate of 82 economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for a
900,000 increase in housing starts. Multifamily construction
surged 26 percent, while work began on 2.2 percent fewer single-family homes.  Confidence Slips  Another report showed  consumer confidence  in the U.S.
unexpectedly dropped in August from a six-year high as Americans
faced rising interest rates. The Thomson Reuters/University of
Michigan preliminary index of consumer sentiment for this month
fell to 80 from 85.1 in July, which was the highest since July
2007. The median projection of 68 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg called for little change at 85.2.  “People seem to be in a mode of not being too excited
about the U.S. right now,” Brian Burrell, equity research
analyst for Thornburg Investment Management Inc., said in a
telephone interview from  Santa Fe ,  New Mexico . His firm oversees
about $90 billion. “People are scrutinizing these data points
and trying to get a read on what is going to happen and how the
Fed is going to react.”  European Markets  Today’s 0.3 percent gain left the Stoxx Europe 600 Index up
about 0.1 percent for the week. Deutsche Lufthansa AG fell 1.3
percent as Morgan Stanley downgraded shares of Europe’s second-largest airline. A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S rallied almost 10
percent after the owner of the world’s biggest container-shipping line raised its profit forecast.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index fell for a second day,
losing 0.5 percent and trimming this week’s advance to 0.5
percent. Brazil’s Ibovespa Index rallied 1.1 percent for an
eighth straight gain, its longest rally since January 2012. The
real slid at least 1.5 percent against all 16 major peers.  Brazil Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said a weaker
currency was good for local industry, deepening a selloff in the
real sparked by concern the U.S. will curb monetary stimulus.  Real Weakens  The real currency has lost 15 percent in the past three
months, boosting the cost of imports and adding to inflation
that already exceeds central bank targets. The  exchange rate  is
at a level that’s good for local industry, Mantega told
reporters in  Sao Paulo  today. The currency will be volatile
until U.S. policy makers clarify their plans for paring back an
$85 billion a month bond-buying program, he said.  The Shanghai Composite Index dropped 0.6 percent as Anhui
Conch Cement Co., China’s biggest cement maker, fell on worse-than-estimated earnings.  China’s market was roiled by a 53 percent surge in trading
volumes that had sent the index to its biggest intraday gain
since March 2009 following a trading error at Everbright
Securities Co.  Sensex Slides  India’s Sensex dropped 4 percent, the biggest decline since
September 2011, as banking stocks tumbled amid concern the
central bank’s measures to bolster the nation’s currency are
failing. The rupee slid as much as 0.9 percent to 62.0050 per
dollar. The currency has depreciated 4.4 percent in the past
three weeks.  West Texas Intermediate oil rose 13 cents to $107.46 a
barrel for a sixth straight gain as a weather system headed for
the  Gulf of Mexico . Enbridge Inc., Marathon Oil Corp. and BP Plc
were among companies removing personnel from facilities in the
Gulf region. In  Egypt , the Muslim Brotherhood urged supporters
onto the streets after noon prayers to protest the killing of
hundreds of their people by security forces in a crackdown this
week.  Egypt’s benchmark bonds capped the steepest three-day drop
in 14 months.  The 5.75 percent dollar-denominated debt maturing April
2020 fell 4.4 percent in the past three days, as per data
compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the most since the period ended
June 22, 2012, the final trading day before Mohamed Mursi, who
was ousted by the army last month, was declared Egypt’s first
democratically elected president. The London-traded shares of
 Commercial International Bank Egypt SAE (CBKD)  fell to a one-month low.  Egypt’s default risk rose to a five-week high. The
bloodiest day in Egypt’s recent history and its aftermath, which
left at least 600 dead according to official figures, triggered
the closing of the nation’s stock exchange and banks yesterday.  The dollar was up 0.2 percent at 97.55 yen and rose 1.4
percent this week. The Bloomberg U.S.  Dollar Index  added 0.2
percent, bringing this week’s advance to 0.5 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael P. Regan in  New York  at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Barinka in New York at 
 abarinka2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  