-- Japan Shares Fall Amid Stronger Yen, Fed Stimulus Concern
-- B y   A n n a   K i t a n a k a
-- 2013-08-15T07:44:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/japan-shares-fall-amid-stronger-yen-fed-tapering-concern.html
Japanese  shares  fell, with the  Topix (TPX) 
index halting a two-day gain, as exporters retreated after the
yen strengthened and amid increased expectations the U.S.
Federal Reserve will reduce stimulus in September.  Toyota Motor Corp.,  Asia ’s biggest carmaker, lost 1.6
percent. Kubota Corp., a tractor maker that gets 23 percent of
its sales from  North America , dropped 3.2 percent after rival
Deere & Co. forecast a decline in U.S. farm revenue. Mitsui
O.S.K. Lines Ltd. led gains by marine-transport shares after a
measure of shipping rates rose the most since October. Mobile-game site operator Gree Inc. surged 13 percent after operating
profit beat estimates.  The Topix lost 1.7 percent to 1,151.82 at the close of
trading in Tokyo, with all industry groups except shippers
declining. Volume on the measure was about 21 percent lower than
the 30-day average. The gauge increased 3.2 percent in the
previous two sessions. The Nikkei 225 Stock Average slipped 2.1
percent to 13,752.94.  “Investors are taking profit partly because of the
concerns about tapering, but also because we’ve had a weaker yen
the past few days and stocks were up,” said  Naoki Fujiwara ,
chief  fund manager  at Shinkin Asset Management Co., which
oversees the equivalent of $6.5 billion. “If the Fed begins
tapering when the economy still isn’t very strong, then even
though Japanese stocks should benefit as the yen will likely
weaken, the market may be unable to avoid risk-off sentiment if
U.S. stocks plunge.”  Tax Debate  Japanese shares extended losses after Chief Cabinet
Secretary Yoshihide Suga said Prime Minister Shinzo Abe has not
given instructions on lowering the corporate  tax rate . The
Nikkei newspaper reported on Aug. 13 that Abe had called for
study on cutting the levy on businesses as a counterweight to
raising the sales tax, citing unidentified people in the
government. The Topix rallied 2 percent that day.  Finance Minister Taro Aso said today the country’s second-quarter gross domestic product data supports the case for
raising the  sales tax . The prime minister didn’t request
consideration of a corporate-tax cut, Aso also said. Lowering
that levy would have only limited economic impact, he said.  “The market had been expecting a increase in the
 consumption tax  to be paired with a decrease in the corporate
tax,” said Masanori Ikunaga, a Tokyo-based fund manager at
Sumitomo Mitsui Asset Management Co., which oversees the
equivalent of $111 billion. “Not only has uncertainty about
raising the sales tax increased because of these comments from
the government, but we’ve also lost hope of a cut in the
corporate-tax rate.”  Stimulus Poll  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slipped 0.2
percent today. The gauge lost 0.5 percent yesterday, falling for
a sixth time in eight days, after economists predicted the Fed
will reduce stimulus next month as European data added to signs
the global economy is strengthening.  The U.S. central bank will probably cut its $85 billion in
monthly bond purchases at its meeting on Sept. 17-18, according
to 65 percent of economists surveyed by Bloomberg from Aug. 9 to
Aug. 13. In a survey last month, half of economists predicted a
reduction in September.  Data yesterday showed the euro area  emerged  from a record-long recession in the second quarter, led by Germany and  France .
Gross domestic product expanded 0.3 percent after a 0.3 percent
contraction in the first quarter, the European Union’s
statistics office said. The region’s economy had contracted for
six quarters, the longest slump since the euro’s debut in 1999.  Exporters Drop  The yen rose as much as 0.6 percent today to touch 97.59
against the dollar. Electronics manufacturers and carmakers were
the  biggest drags  on the Topix.  Toyota, which gets 31 percent of sales from North America,
slid 1.6 percent to 6,310 yen. Honda Motor Co., which counts the
region as its biggest source of revenue, dropped 1.2 percent to
3,810 yen. Canon Inc., the world’s biggest camera maker, slipped
1 percent to 3,115 yen.  “Investors are skeptical about whether the Fed should
begin tapering in September if concerns remain about the
strength of the  U.S. economy ,” said  Mitsushige Akino , chief
fund manager at Ichiyoshi Asset Management Co. in Tokyo. “If
economic data is mixed and they go ahead with tapering, it’s
likely to lead to a stronger yen” as investors buy the currency
as a haven asset.  Kubota slid 3.2 percent to 1,474 yen. Deere, the world’s
No. 1 agricultural-equipment maker, forecast U.S. farm cash
receipts will retreat to $389.8 billion in 2013 and $379.7
billion next year from a record $402.1 billion last year as crop
prices weaken.  Shipping Rates  The Topix Maritime Transport Index gained 1.9 percent
today.  Japan ’s biggest shippers climbed after the  Baltic Dry
Index (BDIY)  jumped 5.3 percent for the biggest advance since October.  Mitsui O.S.K. jumped the most on the  Nikkei 225 , rising 3.6
percent to 406 yen. Kawasaki Kisen Kaisha Ltd. added 1.9 percent
to 220 yen and Nippon Yusen K.K. climbed 1 percent to 297 yen.  Gree jumped 13 percent to 963 yen, the second-biggest
advance on the Topix. The company reported full-year operating
profit of 48.6 billion yen, beating the 47.3 billion yen
 estimate  of 21 analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  Foreign investors, which account for 64 percent of trading
value on Japan’s stock markets, were net sellers of Japanese
stocks for a third week as of Aug. 9, selling a net 101 billion
yen, according to the Tokyo Stock Exchange.  Daily trading volume  on the Topix fell to the lowest this
year on Aug. 12 and has remained near that level as investors
take summer vacations. About 2 billion shares were traded today,
below the about 3.5 billion average for this year. The measure’s
30-day  historic volatility  was at 26.62 today, compared with its
five-year median of 19.42.  The Topix traded at 1.1 times book value today, compared
with 2.48 for the S&P 500 and 1.73 for the Stoxx Europe 600
Index yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Kitanaka in  Tokyo  at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  