-- Jasper Johns’s Ex-Assistant Charged With Selling Works
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y   a n d   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 2013-08-16T17:23:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/jasper-johns-s-ex-assistant-charged-with-selling-works.html
A former longtime assistant to the
painter  Jasper Johns  was charged with stealing 22 artworks from
the artist’s  Connecticut  studio and selling them through a
 Manhattan  gallery for a $3.4 million profit.  James Meyer, who was Johns’s assistant for more than 25
years, was arrested at his home Aug. 14 in Salisbury,
Connecticut, and appeared in federal court in Hartford, U.S.
Attorney Preet Bharara in Manhattan said in a statement.  From 2006 to 2012 Meyer removed 22 of the artist’s works
from a file drawer at the studio in Sharon and took them to an
art gallery in Manhattan to sell without Johns’s permission,
according to an indictment unsealed yesterday. The works were
pieces Johns, 83, hadn’t yet completed and hadn’t authorized for
sale, according to the filing. Meyer told the gallery owner the
works were gifts, prosecutors said.  The gallery, which wasn’t identified, sold the works for
$6.5 million, of which Meyer received $3.4 million, the
indictment states.  He was charged with interstate transportation of stolen
property and  wire fraud . The maximum prison sentences are 10
years on the stolen property count and 20 years on wire fraud.
Meyer was released on $250,000 unsecured bond and ordered to
appear in federal court in Manhattan on or before Aug. 23. The
conditions of bail also include no contact with Johns.  Fake Pages  Johns couldn’t be reached for comment.  Matthew Marks
Gallery , the gallery in Manhattan that represents Johns,
declined to comment on the case. Donna Recant, identified by
prosecutors as Meyer’s lawyer, didn’t return calls seeking
comment on the charges.  Meyer created fake inventory numbers for the pieces to give
the impression they were finished works and authorized by Johns
to be sold, according to the indictment. He also created fake
pages for the works that were made to appear as if part of a
ledger book of registered pieces kept at the studio, the U.S.
said. These pages, which he photographed, contained notes that
the works had been “gifted” to Meyer.  The photographed pages were e-mailed by the gallery to
prospective buyers.  Meyer required each buyer to sign an agreement that the
artworks be kept private for at least eight years and not
loaned, exhibited or re-sold during that time, the U.S. said.  Auction Record  One of the most important living American artists, Johns is
known for his paintings of the American flag, targets, numbers
and letters. In 2008, an exhibition of his work, “Jasper Johns:
Gray,” was shown at the  Metropolitan Museum of Art . His auction
record of $28.6 million was set in 2010 at Christie’s in New
York for the painting “Flag,” which once hung in the bedroom
of author  Michael Crichton  in  Los Angeles . “Flag” was created
between 1960 and 1966 with wax encaustic and newspaper.  Meyer is an artist whose most recent exhibition,
“Shadow,” was shown through April 27 at  Gering & Lopez Gallery 
in Manhattan. His watercolors depicted a shadowy figure of a boy
playing with a water bucket in a field. Earlier works showed
children playing hide-and-seek and jumping through hula hoops.  He attended the School of Visual Arts in New York and
became Johns’s studio assistant in 1985, according to his
 website .  Meyer helped develop an after-school art studio at a high
school where students work on projects under the supervision of
local artists, his website states. He and his wife, Amy Jenkins,
have two children.  The case is U.S. v. Meyer, 13-cr-00604, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net ;
Katya Kazakina in New York at  kkazakina@bloomberg.net  or  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Billy at   dbilly@bloomberg.net  