-- JPMorgan Shows Charged Former Traders No Bar: Corporate Finance
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s   a n d   S c o t t   H a r r i s o n
-- 2013-08-15T04:00:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/jpmorgan-shows-charged-former-traders-no-bar-corporate-finance.html
On the same day prosecutors charged
two former  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  employees with concealing $6.2
billion of losses on derivatives trades, the bank persuaded bond
investors to lend it money for 30 years at an  interest rate  less
than similar securities.  The largest U.S. bank sold $750 million of bonds yesterday
that are due in 2043 and yield 5.68 percent, below the 6.38
percent average for similarly-rated, dollar-denominated
subordinated debt maturing in 20 to 40 years, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Terms of the deal show that at least in the  bond market ,
JPMorgan is suffering little to no negative repercussions 16
months after  Bloomberg News  first reported that bets from its
chief investment office in  London  were distorting the
 derivatives market . Bruno Iksil, the trader at the center of the
case who became known as the “London Whale” because his bets
were so big, pledged to cooperate with investigators.  “Managers have moved past the Whale story,” said  Adrian Miller , director of fixed-income strategies at GMP Securities
LLC in  New York . “As it relates to JPM’s future business,
investors care little at this point.”  The 5.625 percent, subordinated notes yielded 190 basis
points more than similar-maturity Treasuries, Bloomberg data
show.  Kristin Lemkau, a spokeswoman at JPMorgan in New York,
didn’t return telephone and e-mail messages seeking comment
about the new issue left after regular business hours.  ‘$6 Billion Ding’  “Timing is 90 percent of life,” Craig Pirrong, a former
futures trader and now a professor of finance at the  University
of Houston , said of the subordinated debt issue and allegations.
“Maybe investors will figure if they can survive a $6 billion
ding no problem, the bonds are safe as can be,” he said.  Prosecutors said in court filings that Javier Martin-Artajo
and Julien Grout falsified the value of positions in JPMorgan’s
Synthetic Credit Portfolio, which the government said had been
profitable for the unit, raking in more than $1 billion in 2009.  Disclosed by Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  in May
2012, the bad derivative bets led to an earnings restatement, a
U.S. Senate subcommittee hearing and probes by the Securities
and Exchange Commission and U.K. Financial Conduct Authority.  ‘Next Crisis’  The divergent performances by the CIO unit in 2009 and 2012
demonstrate the “yin and yang of that operation,” Pirrong said
in an e-mail. “In the next crisis, their trade could exacerbate
the problems rather than save them.”  Credit-default swaps tied to the company’s debt, which
typically rise as investor confidence deteriorates, rose 0.8
basis point to a mid-price of 81.7 basis points yesterday, up
from a 2013 low of 72.3 basis points in March, according to
Bloomberg prices. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a
contract protecting $10 million of debt.  The contracts, which pay the buyer face value if a borrower
fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted
debt, reached as high as 174 basis points in June 2012 as
investors sought to estimate the size of the loss.  JPMorgan never lost its investment-grade status in the eyes
of swaps traders, according to Moody’s Corp.’s capital markets
research group. At worst, the contract’s prices climbed to
levels in September and October that implied the debt should be
rated Baa2, the second-lowest step of investment grade. Moody’s
Investors Service  grades  the company A2, and Standard & Poor’s
an equivalent A.  Earnings Increase  Investment-grade debt is rated Baa3 or more by Moody’s and
BBB- at S&P.  JPMorgan reported a 31 percent increase in second-quarter
profit of $6.5 billion on July 12 that beat analysts’ estimates
as revenue from trading stocks and bonds climbed. It was
 profitable  every year during the financial crisis.  In the context of the investment-grade corporate market,
“a 30-year single-A rated subordinated note yielding 190 over
is attractive,” said Bonnie Baha, the head of global developed
credit at Los Angeles-based DoubleLine Capital LP.  While JPMorgan is “still big, still generating tremendous
profitability, and well-capitalized,” buying bank debt and
benefiting as yields fell relative to Treasuries, a strategy
that’s been profitable since 2009, is “getting toward the end
of the road,” she said in a telephone interview.  “Investors have made a lot of money on that play, but going
forward, where’s the revenue generation going to come from that
drives profitability?”  Narrowing Spread  The average spread investors demand to hold  U.S. bank  bonds
has dropped to 153 basis points through yesterday, from as high
as 834 during the financial crisis, according to the Bank of
America Merrill Lynch U.S. Banking Corporate Index. That
compares with a spread of 150 basis points for industrial debt,
from 602 basis points in December 2008, according to a Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index of U.S. industrial issuers.  JPMorgan’s new subordinated notes were priced at a spread
closer to the average industrial bond rated at the lowest level
of investment grade, which fell to 198 basis points yesterday,
according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch BBB U.S.
Industrial Excluding Financial, Telecom, Transportation and
Utility Index.  That enabled investors “to get BBB-like spreads while
still getting a single-A rating,” which is important for some
money managers, according to  Joel Levington , managing director
of corporate credit for Brookfield Investment Management Inc. in
New York.  Most people “don’t have a perfect view of an
organization’s risk policies and how they are implemented on a
daily basis,” Levington said in an e-mail. “JPMorgan was able
to take a big hit and bounce back quickly. That says something
about the earnings power and balance sheet quality here.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Harrison in Scott Harrison at 
 sharrison52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  