-- Kiwi Remains Higher Versus Aussie as N.Z. Manufacturing Climbs
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2013-08-15T00:37:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/kiwi-remains-higher-versus-aussie-as-n-z-manufacturing-climbs.html
New Zealand’s dollar remained higher
against the Australian currency as data from the smaller nation
showed a gauge of manufacturing climbed to a nine-year high and
job advertisements increased.  New Zealand’s two-year swap rate gained to a two-year high
on speculation the central bank will raise  borrowing costs . The
Aussie lost 0.8 percent this week versus the kiwi as traders see
a 62 percent chance that the Reserve Bank of  Australia  will
lower the key rate by March after reducing it to a record 2.5
percent last week. Australia’s dollar rose versus the greenback
amid speculation investors are paring record bearish bets.  “Judging from what’s priced in markets, Australia may cut
rates while New Zealand may either stay on hold or raise
rates,” said  Daisaku Ueno , a senior currency and fixed-income
strategist at Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co. in
 Tokyo . “Aussie-kiwi probably has room to fall a bit further.”  The New Zealand dollar was unchanged at NZ$1.1360 per
Aussie as of 10:13 a.m. in Sydney after climbing 0.7 percent
yesterday. The kiwi advanced 0.3 percent to 80.55 U.S. cents,
while the Aussie added 0.3 percent to 91.52 U.S. cents.  New Zealand’s two-year swap rate rose to 3.48 percent, the
highest since August 2011, from 3.47 percent.  The number of wagers by hedge funds and other large
speculators on a decline in the Aussie exceeded those on a gain
by 76,779 on Aug. 6, the biggest  net shorts  on record, according
to figures from the Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading
Commission dating back to 1993.  “Record Aussie shorts have probably fully priced in one
more rate cut,” said Mitsubishi UFJ’s Ueno. Because Australia’s
interest rates are higher than those in the U.S., “Aussie
shorts deliver a negative carry, so people can’t stay in these
positions for too long,” he said.  Carry income refers to interest from holding an asset less
the cost of funding the investment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  