-- N.Z. Treasury Urged Review of RBNZ Governor’s Power Last Year
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o c k e t t
-- 2013-08-15T00:19:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/n-z-treasury-urged-review-of-rbnz-governor-s-power-last-year.html
New Zealand’s Treasury sought a
review of the Reserve Bank governor’s single decision-making
role last year, in advice that was rejected by the government.  “The Treasury recommended a review of the RBNZ’s monetary
policy decision-making model to determine whether there are
likely to be benefits from moving to a monetary policy
committee,” Treasury spokesman Chris Ritchie said in an e-mailed response to questions today. A change in the structure is
not under consideration, a spokesman for Finance Minister Bill English said. An RBNZ spokesman declined to comment.  New Zealand central bank governor Graeme Wheeler is the
sole arbiter of official interest rates. In a document released
to the Green Party under the Official Information Act, the RBNZ
notes that most other central banks take policy decisions by
committee, with a majority or consensus view holding sway.  The Greens are campaigning for a law change to force the
RBNZ to function in a similar manner, arguing the governor’s
sole decision-making power leads to poorer decisions that don’t
reflect the wider economic interests at stake.  “A review of the Reserve Bank’s governance structure is
well overdue,” Green Party co-leader Russel Norman said in a
statement. No other country in the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development gives full responsibility for the
benchmark rate decision to one person, he said.  While the Treasury suggested a review of the central bank’s
decision-making structure, it said it was not a matter of
urgency, the RBNZ wrote in the document released by the Greens,
which is dated Feb. 4 this year.  Treasury’s advice was given to English when the central
bank’s Policy Targets Agreement with the government was being
re-negotiated last year, before Wheeler become governor in
September, Ritchie said.  Wheeler makes the final decision on interest rates after
taking advice from officials who don’t vote and whose
deliberations aren’t released publicly.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Brockett in Wellington at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  