-- NAB Turns to Clients’ Asia Deals as Local Business Lending Lags
-- B y   N a r a y a n a n   S o m a s u n d a r a m
-- 2013-08-15T01:55:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/nab-turns-to-clients-asia-deals-as-local-business-lending-lags.html
National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB) , the
country’s largest lender by assets, is advising a dozen domestic
and Asian clients on deals worth as much as A$500 million each
as it expands in the region amid slow corporate lending at home.  The potential transactions, including acquisitions and
partnerships, are in the renewable energy, agriculture and
health sectors, Spiro Pappas, chief executive officer of the
bank’s Asia business, said in an interview in Sydney.
 Australia ’s weakening currency has boosted Asian interest in
Australian property and businesses, he said.  The country’s biggest corporate lender is following
borrowers into Asia with 25 percent of its small business
customers and nearly 40 percent of its larger clients now active
in the region, Pappas said. NAB’s Asian push is smaller than
that of  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ) , which wants
to draw 30 percent of its revenue from the region by 2017.  “We’ve been expanding our footprint in Asia over the last
couple of years and particularly over the last 12 months,”
NAB’s group executive for business banking, Joseph Healy, said
in the interview on Aug. 13. “The agri sector is a particularly
attractive place for many of our Asian clients to look at and I
think with the dollar easing as it has done, that is going to
open up interest in leisure and tourist assets too.”  500 Employees  NAB has around 500  employees  in Asia including a number of
senior bankers that have moved to the region from Australia. It
doesn’t have an employment target for its Asian businesses nor
does it separate out its lending or balance sheet for its
operations in Asia.  “We’re moving the resources to where we see the
opportunities that are defined by what our customers are
doing,” Healy said. “If we end up doubling our full-time
employment in the next couple of years then so be it.”  At least six other NAB senior bankers in Australia are
finalizing plans to move to the bank’s Asian offices, which
focus on Hong Kong,  Singapore  and  Tokyo . It also has offices in
Beijing,  Shanghai  and Mumbai.  NAB has organized more than 30 client introductions this
year for Australian and New Zealand customers interested in
China or  Japan  and Chinese clients looking for potential
investments in Australia, Pappas said.  Australia Lending  In Australia, a lack of confidence has reduced businesses’
appetite for credit while competition in the sector is high,
Healy said.  Business lending  grew 0.9 percent in June from a
year earlier, the lowest since November 2011, according to
central bank data.  “You might see one month a little bit of growth, but
there’s no natural momentum to it,” he said. “Margins on new
business can be between 20 basis points and 30 basis points
lower than the margin we’ve been enjoying on our portfolio.”  Business confidence slumped in July to an eight-month low
and remained “extremely poor” in the key mining industry as
interest-rate cuts and a weaker currency failed to encourage
companies, a NAB survey showed on Aug. 13.  The Reserve Bank of Australia has reduced borrowing costs
eight times -- for a total of 2.25 percentage points -- since
November 2011 as the local dollar’s strength dragged on growth
and a mining investment boom crests.  A revival in confidence hinges on reduced global
volatility, more stable outlook for  China  and a majority
government in Australia, Healy said.  Australia is holding national elections Sept. 7 and opinion
polls point to the opposition Liberal-National coalition, led by
Tony Abbott, gaining power at the expense of the Labor
government, led by Kevin Rudd.  Once business confidence improves, then lending will pick
up as “financial leverage in corporate Australia is close to a
50-year low” providing capacity for mergers and acquisition or
other forms of expansion, Healy said.  NAB’s business banking unit was the  largest contributor  to
profit in the six months to March 31, filings show. It posted a
cash  profit  of A$1.24 billion representing 43 percent of the
bank’s total in the period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Iain McDonald in Sydney at 
 imcdonald7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  