-- Nagasaki Bomb Maker Offers Lessons for Fukushima Cleanup
-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 2013-08-15T21:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/nagasaki-bomb-maker-offers-lessons-for-japan-s-fukushima-cleanup.html
Hanford Engineer Works produced the
20 pounds of plutonium for the bomb dropped on Nagasaki. It’s
among the most toxic nuclear waste sites and the place Japan is
turning to for help dealing with melted reactors in Fukushima.  Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501)  has sent engineers on visits to
the Hanford site in Washington state this year to learn from
decades of work treating millions of gallons of radioactive
waste. Hanford also has a method to seal off reactors known as
concrete cocooning that could reduce the 11 trillion yen ($112
billion) estimated cost for cleaning up Fukushima.  Hanford stretches over 586 square miles of scrubland
southeast of Seattle where thousands of technicians are
decommissioning the nine reactors in operation from 1944 to
1987. Its laboratories and plutonium facilities were integral to
the Manhattan Project to make the first atomic bomb.  “The U.S. has vast experience in nuclear technology with
their military activity, including decontaminating soil and
managing river contamination,” Masumi Ishikawa, general manager
of Tokyo Electric’s radioactive waste management, said in an
interview. “There’s a lot we can learn from them.”  Japan  Prime Minister Shinzo Abe agreed with that last week
when he told his fellow citizens for the first time that Tokyo
Electric alone isn’t able to handle the disaster at the Dai-Ichi
plant. He promised more government funds for the cleanup without
saying how they’d be used.  Hanford Leaks  Abe’s comments followed a long series of mishaps by the
utility known as Tepco, resulting in its admission last month
that hundreds of tons of radioactive water is flowing into the
Pacific Ocean more than two years after three reactor cores
melted down at the plant.  Hanford has its own share of containment challenges. Six
underground tanks leaking radioactive waste may offer lessons to
Tepco in dealing with substances that contaminate everything
they come in contact with. The tanks are among 177 buried at
Hanford, about 200 miles (320 kilometers) southeast of  Seattle 
along the Columbia River.  The U.S. Department of Energy has spent more than $16
billion since 1989 to clean up Hanford. The weapons production
generated 56 million gallons of radioactive waste, enough to
fill a vessel the size of a football field to a depth of 150
feet, according to a  December  report by the U.S. Government
Accountability Office.  Fukushima Fifty  Tepco’s Ishikawa said visits by him and other company
engineers to Hanford are part of an agreement with the
Department of Energy to evaluate the technology for possible use
at Fukushima.  Ishikawa, 46, studied nuclear engineering at Tohoku
University in Sendai City, northeast Japan, and is one of the
Fukushima Fifty.  The name refers to a group of engineers who stayed in the
Japanese plant to fight the disaster as power was lost and
reactor buildings exploded. Ishikawa was the right-hand man of
Masao Yoshida, who led the group. Yoshida died on July 9 of
esophageal cancer. He was 58.  At Hanford, the energy department finished a $65 million
cocooning  project  in June last year, the DOE said in a
statement. That involved demolishing the last one of the nine
reactor buildings down to the four-foot- (1.2 meter) thick
concrete shield around the reactor core.  More concrete was added to the shield, along with a new
concrete roof to put the reactor into so-called safe storage for
75 years. This allows radiation levels to decay to safer levels
in the core and gives the operator time to determine the final
disposal method, according to the statement.  Cocooning Reactors  There are three ways to decommission nuclear reactors, said
Ishikawa. One is immediate dismantling. Another, used at the
wrecked Chernobyl plant in  Ukraine , entombed the whole building
in concrete. The third is cocooning used at Hanford. Entombing
and cocooning cost less than immediate dismantling as it reduces
the expense for handling and moving highly radiated material,
Ishikawa said.  Tepco is talking with the DOE on whether cocooning could
work for the crippled reactors in Fukushima. Sealing them off in
concrete for 75 years would allow more focus on cleaning up
surrounding areas so that residents could return, said Ishikawa.  Around 160,000 people were forced to evacuate from towns
and villages when the Dai-Ichi plant released clouds of
radiation after it was hit by an earthquake and tsunami on March
11, 2011.  “Decommissioning is vital for the areas around Fukushima
Dai-Ichi to move ahead with restoration,” Ishikawa said.  Visiting Fukushima  Officials from the DOE involved with Hanford have visited
the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant three times as part of a six-month
agreement with Tepco to investigate the conditions there and
what solutions they can offer, he said.  “We identified seven areas of U.S. expertise that can be
tapped,” said Ishikawa. “That includes decommissioning,
nuclear waste disposal, removal of melted fuel, and restoration
of surrounding areas.”  Ishikawa said talks with the DOE continue and he couldn’t
provide a date on when any agreement may be reached for using
expertise and technology developed at Hanford.  “The United States remains committed to working with Japan
in their remediation efforts and believes that Japan can
continue to leverage U.S. knowledge and experience in the
environmental management area,” said Lindsey Geisler, a DOE
spokesperson.  “The Energy Department’s environmental cleanup mission is
one of the world’s largest programs of its type,” Geisler said
in an e-mail response to questions.  Ishikawa said in his visits to Hanford he’s seen
decontaminated areas coming back to life, noting for example a
winery that’s been built. That, he said, is what he wants to see
in Fukushima.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  