-- NBA Players Union Gets Hunter Lawsuit Moved to L.A. Court
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2013-08-16T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/nba-players-union-gets-hunter-lawsuit-moved-to-l-a-court.html
The National Basketball Players
Association won its bid for a lawsuit filed by ousted Executive
Director Billy Hunter to be moved to state court in Los Angeles,
the union said.  “We are pleased that the court has transferred the case to
Los Angeles, where it should have been filed, and now look
forward to a hearing on the pending motions to dismiss the
case,” Christina Sarchio, an attorney for the union, and Andrew
Kassof, the lawyer for association President Derek Fisher and
other defendants, said in a statement. Court records confirming
the ruling weren’t immediately available.  Hunter sued the union, Fisher and his publicist, Jamie
Wior, in May, alleging they engaged in secret negotiations with
team owners to end the 2011 NBA lockout. The complaint was filed
in Alameda County,  California , where the union said Hunter
regularly worked. Fisher and Wior live in Los Angeles and the
players association is based in New York.  Hunter has a home in Oakland, California, and he’s friendly
with C. Don Clay, the Presiding Judge of Alameda County Superior
Court, according to the union’s court filing requesting a change
in venue. Last year, Clay in an e-mail to Hunter expressed his
support for the former federal prosecutor in his battle with the
union, according to the filing.  Dave Anderson, Hunter’s attorney, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail seeking comment on the ruling.  Hunter was fired as the association’s executive director in
February, ending a 16-year tenure. Player representatives from
24 of the 30 NBA teams in Houston for the All-Star weekend voted
unanimously to oust him.  The lawsuit is the latest in a battle between the union,
Fisher and Hunter, who was criticized in an independent review
of association business and hiring practices.  The case is Hunter v. Fisher, RG13679736, California
Superior Court, Alameda County (Oakland).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  