-- Nordex Jumps After Raising Sales Forecast: Franfurt Mover
-- B y   W e i x i n   Z h a
-- 2013-08-15T13:21:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/nordex-jumps-after-raising-sales-forecast-franfurt-mover.html
Nordex SE (NDX1) , a German wind-turbine
producer, surged to the highest in more than two years after
raising its revenue forecast for 2013 because of increasing
orders in  Europe .  Nordex  climbed  as much as 17 percent and was trading up 15
percent at 8.69 euros as of 3:17 p.m. in Frankfurt, the highest
based on closing prices since March 2011. Trading volume was
more than four times the three-month daily average. The stock
has almost tripled this year, valuing the company at 639 million
euros ($846 million).  Full-year sales will “grow more quickly” to within a
range of 1.3 billion euros to 1.4 billion euros compared with
the 1.2 billion euros to 1.3 billion euros predicted earlier,
the Hamburg-based company said in its quarterly earnings
statement today. Earnings before interest and taxes will amount
to 2.5 percent to 3.5 percent of sales, wider than a previous
margin forecast of 2 percent to 3 percent.  “Order intake has grown, but one should also look at the
profit, and their Ebit margin is not great as it is generally in
the industry,” Heinz Steffen, an analyst at Fairesearch GmbH in
Kronberg,  Germany , said by phone. That stems from price pressure
in the wind-power industry that will remain high, as “all
turbine makers try to sell as many wind towers as possible in
order to obtain contracts for the long-term service of wind
farms or to replace less-efficient wind towers.”  Nordex sold 93 percent of its turbines in the Europe,
Middle East and Africa market in the first half, an increase
from 80 percent a year earlier. The company is shutting a plant
in Yinchuan,  China , this year and a site in Jonesboro,  Arkansas ,
in February 2014 to focus on producing turbines in Rostock,
Germany.  “One future weakness could be the focus on European
markets,” said Steffen, who has a reduce  recommendation  on the
stock.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weixin Zha in  Frankfurt  at 
 wzha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  