-- Norway Opposition Infighting Can’t Stop Coalition, Solberg Says
-- B y   S a l e h a   M o h s i n
-- 2013-08-15T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/norway-opposition-infighting-can-t-stop-coalition-solberg-says.html
The head of  Norway ’s Conservative
Party said feuds inside the opposition she leads aren’t deep
enough to split the bloc, which polls show will win next month’s
election.  Erna Solberg, whose Conservative Party has surged ahead in
polls to become Norway’s biggest political group, is set to head
a coalition with the anti-immigration Progress Party, the
Christian Democrats and the Liberal Party. Their projected
victory after the Sept. 9 vote would end Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg’s eight years in government at the helm of a Labor-led coalition.  “There will be a firm commitment between these four
parties,” Solberg said in an interview in Oslo. If a four-party
coalition isn’t possible, then a Conservative-led government
will come to “an agreement in parliament on how to run and how
to consult” with each other, she said.  Opposition parties are trying to carve out their own policy
corners by hammering platforms held by other candidates. Siv Jensen, leader of the Progress Party that was founded as a
protest group against taxes, has said Solberg is in “Social
Democratic bubble” as her party tempers pledges to cut taxes in
an effort to woo Labor voters.  Stoltenberg  told  Norway’s VG newspaper he may not
immediately resign if he loses the election, arguing voters
would be left without a unified coalition.  ‘Stupid Rule’  Yet Solberg enjoys higher personal popularity than
Stoltenberg. A TNS Gallup poll published by TV 2 showed 31.6
percent of voters want her to be premier, compared with 28.6
percent for Stoltenberg.  A Solberg-led coalition would face friction among its
smaller parties as the Christian Democrats and Liberal Party
question the Progress Party’s tough stance on immigration. The
group, historically an outsider in Norwegian politics, once
counted convicted mass murdered Anders Behring Breivik as a
member.  While working to unseat the government, Liberal Party
leader Trine Skei Grande said last week that one of her group’s
goals is to limit the influence the Progress Party would have in
a new government. The Progress Party has also isolated itself in
seeking to spend more of Norway’s $760 billion oil fund,
rejecting a rule that limits spending to 4 percent of the fund.  “It’s a stupid rule,” Jensen said in an Aug. 5 interview.
“But do we need a rule for the fiscal policy? Yes we do. It
will be easy to create a new rule that we will both agree on and
that will stabilize the economy and make us invest more and
reduce spending.”  While polls show that the Progress Party could be the
second largest in parliament, Solberg said “it depends on the
policy discussions afterward who can sit in government.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saleha Mohsin in Oslo at 
 smohsin2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  