-- Nuclear Reactors in U.S. Seen at Risk of Terrorist Attack
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2013-08-15T19:29:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/nuclear-reactors-in-u-s-seen-at-risk-to-terrorist-attack.html
Commercial U.S. nuclear reactors
remain vulnerable to terrorist threats more than a decade after
the 2001 attacks spurred added safety measures, according to an
independent study prepared for the Defense Department.  The combined public and private security provided at the
power plants “is inadequate to defend against a maximum,
credible, non-state adversary,” the Nuclear Proliferation
Prevention Project at the University of Texas at Austin said in
the report released today.  “This leaves private-sector facilities less protected than
government facilities that face similar risks of theft of
fissile material or radiological sabotage, which makes no
sense,” according to the report.  After terrorists flew four commercial airliners into
buildings in New York and  Washington , and a Pennsylvania field
on Sept. 11, 2001, the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission
required all reactor-owners to bolster security. The  measures 
included increased patrols, vehicle checks and additional
barriers to prevent intrusion. Operators also had to deal with
assaults from the air and by water, according to the NRC
website.  ‘Adequately Protected’  “The report contains no new information or insight” and
is a “rehash of arguments from a decade ago” when the NRC was
developing post-Sept. 11 rules, David McIntyre, a spokesman,
said in an e-mail. “The NRC has strengthened security
requirements for commercial nuclear power plants and remains
confident that these important facilities are adequately
protected.”  The steps taken by the NRC still aren’t enough to protect
against a major terrorist attack because they deal only with
threats that a plant is designed to handle, known as the
“design-basis threat,” according to the Texas study.  “None of the 104 U.S. power reactors is required to
protect against a 9/11-style attack,” Alan Kuperman, the
project’s coordinator and study co-author, said on a conference
call with reporters.  While the report didn’t mention specific reactors, a
statement accompanying the study listed units in coastal areas
that it said are vulnerable to attacks by boat. They included
 PG&E Corp. (PCG) ’s Diablo Canyon plant in  California ,  Dominion
Resources (D)  Inc.’s Surry facility in  Virginia  and  Entergy Corp. (ETR) ’s
Indian Point units north of New York City.  Vulnerable Plants  Kuperman said the study for the Pentagon was generic,
focusing on the adequacy of design-basis threats. The individual
reactors were added in the statement to make it more “user
friendly” when it released to the public.  Both the NRC and the Nuclear Energy Institute, a
Washington-based industry group for reactor owners, disputed
that those plants are more vulnerable than others.  All commercial reactors in the U.S. protect against the
same water-borne threats, David Kline, NEI’s director for
nuclear security, said in an interview. The threat requirement
for reactors is based on intelligence and reviewed periodically
with input from government officials, he said.  “We understand that this report was developed by
academia,” Kline said. “I’m always concerned when folks have
an unclassified report and claim to have all the answers in
it.” Classified documents contain more detailed information
about threats, he said.  Same Standards  The three agencies responsible for oversight of the
nation’s nuclear facilities -- the NRC, and Energy and Defense
departments -- should have the same standards to guard against
attacks, according to the Texas study.  Risks include the possibility that an intruder could
deactivate a nuclear unit’s security systems, drain the cooling
pool to expose radioactive waste, or use rocket-propelled
grenades to overcome a facility’s defenses, according to the
study. It also said terrorists could fly an airplane or drive an
explosive-laden boat into a reactor.  “The fact that future power plant designs must protect
against aircraft attacks is an acknowledgment by the NRC that
the threat is credible,” the report said. The threat should be
included in the design requirements for existing reactors as
well as new units, it said.  The NRC has said on its website that the best approach to
dealing with aircraft threats is by strengthening airport and
airline security and deployment of anti-aircraft weapons would
be a decision to be made by the Defense Department.  “Since 9/11, it’s much harder to take advantage of a
commercial airliner in a hijacking,” said NEI’s Kline. The
group doesn’t believe the impact of a large plane would trigger
a large radioactive release, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Geimann at 
 sgeimann@bloomberg.net  