-- Obama Makes Time for Political Allies on Summer Vacation
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r   a n d   A n n i e   L i n s k e y
-- 2013-08-15T15:57:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/obama-makes-time-for-political-allies-on-summer-vacation.html
President  Barack Obama  squeezed in a
visit with a political ally while on vacation, dining with
 Massachusetts  Governor Deval Patrick during his week-long break
on Martha’s Vineyard.  The two ate dinner last night at State Road Restaurant, a
contemporary American tavern in West Tisbury, with first lady
Michelle Obama and other friends, according to Heather Johnson,
a spokeswoman for Patrick.  “He enjoyed the visit and is always happy to welcome the
first family to Massachusetts,” said Johnson.  The president and the Massachusetts governor share Chicago
connections -- Patrick was born there and Obama made the city
his political base -- and a Harvard Law pedigree. They’ve
campaigned for each other throughout their careers and have
several political advisers in common, including former White
House senior aide David Axelrod and Obama’s 2008 campaign
manager, David Plouffe.  In 2008, then-primary opponent Hillary Clinton accused
Obama of lifting lines from Patrick’s addresses for his
presidential campaign speeches.  “Deval and I do trade ideas all the time, and you know
he’s occasionally used lines of mine,” Obama said at the time.  Patrick also defended the practice: “Senator Obama and I
are long-time friends and allies. We often share ideas about
politics, policy and language,” Patrick said in a statement to
the  New York  Times. “The argument in question, on the value of
words in the public square, is one about which he and I have
spoken frequently before.”  Justice Department  Most recently, Patrick, who headed the U.S. Justice
Department’s civil rights division during President Bill Clinton
administration, has been rumored as a potential replacement for
Attorney General Eric Holder.  Amid the escalating crisis in  Egypt , Obama has made time on
his vacation for meals and golf with several long-time friends.
After delivering a statement condemning the violence in Egypt
this morning, he hit the links with White House chef Sam Kass
and aides Marvin Nicholson and Mike Brush. Yesterday, he
attended a party at the vacation home of Comcast Corp. Chief
Executive Officer Brian Roberts, after the two men played a
round of golf with World Bank President Jim Kim, and former U.S.
Trade Representative Ron Kirk.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Martha’s Vineyard at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net ;
Annie Linskey in Boston at 
 alinskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  