-- Loeb’s Third Point Re Advances After $276 Million IPO
-- B y   M e g a n   H i c k e y   a n d   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 2013-08-15T20:17:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/loeb-s-third-point-re-is-little-changed-after-276-million-ipo.html
  Third Point Reinsurance Ltd. (TPRE) , which
counts billionaire hedge-fund manager  Daniel Loeb  as a founding
shareholder, advanced in its trading debut after raising $276
million in an initial public offering.  The shares climbed 4.5 percent to $13.06 at 4:15 p.m. in
New York. The company and existing owners sold 22.1 million
shares for $12.50 each, according to a statement yesterday.
Earlier Third Point Re had offered 22.2 million shares for
$12.50 to $14.50.  Competition among reinsurers has made it harder for the
companies to increase the rates they charge primary carriers for
backstop coverage, said Charles Sebaski, an analyst at BMO
Capital Markets, in an interview today. That has pushed
reinsurers like Axis Capital Holdings Ltd. and  Arch Capital (ACGL) 
Group Ltd. to increase their focus on insurance, he said.  “The general conditions for pure-play reinsurance today
are challenged,” Sebaski said. Managers of Bermuda-based Third
Point Re are “not launching this into an improving operating
environment. They are launching this into an overcapitalized
underwriting environment.”  Third Point Re, which relies on Loeb’s Third Point LLC to
oversee an investment portfolio valued at more than $900 million
at midyear, will use proceeds from the IPO to boost underwriting
capacity. Loeb’s money-management style sets Third Point Re
apart from peers by diverging from the typical approach of
investing mainly in fixed-income, the reinsurer said in
regulatory filings.  Arch, Axis  About half of Third Point Re’s investments were in stocks
and 40 percent were in bonds as of June 30, according to
filings. Arch Capital, Endurance Specialty Holdings Ltd. and
Axis, which Third Point Re names as competitors, hold most of
their portfolios in fixed-maturity securities, filings show.  Greenlight Capital Re Ltd., the reinsurer that funnels its
capital to  David Einhorn ’s Greenlight Capital Inc. hedge fund,
holds about 1 percent of its investments in debt securities,
according to filings.  Third Point Re posted $100.7 million in net income in the
six months through June 30, compared with $99.4 million in all
of 2012, as the reinsurer lowered its underwriting costs. The
company spent about $1.08 on claims and expenses for every
premium dollar it collected in the six months through June 30,
down from $1.30 last year, filings show.  Affiliates of private-equity firms Kelso & Co. and Pine
Brook Road Partners LLC have some of the largest Third Point Re
stakes. Loeb was set to own about 8.5 percent after the
offering. Neither Loeb nor the private-equity firms had planned
to sell in the IPO.  According to the original offering terms, Third Point Re
planned to sell a 22 percent stake, valuing the company at $1.4
billion at the midpoint.  JPMorgan Chase & Co., Credit Suisse Group AG, Morgan
Stanley, Bank of America Corp. and Citigroup Inc. are among the
banks that managed Third Point Re’s offering. The shares are
listed on the  New York  Stock Exchange under the symbol TPRE.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Megan Hickey in New York at 
 Mhickey18@bloomberg.net ;
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  