-- Loeb’s Fund Purchases $113.7 Million Stake in Disney
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i   a n d   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2013-08-15T20:45:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/loeb-s-fund-purchases-113-7-million-stake-in-disney.html
Daniel Loeb ’s Third Point LLC, the
hedge-fund pressing  Sony Corp. (6758)  to sell part of its entertainment
business, acquired a $113.7 million stake in  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ,
extending his bet on the industry.  Third Point held 1.8 million shares of Burbank, California-based Disney at the end of June, according to a regulatory
filing yesterday by the New York-based investor. He also held
options to buy 32,000 more, the filing showed.  Loeb was buying the stock as he pressed Tokyo-based  Sony (SNE)  to
sell as much as 20 percent of its film, TV and music business in
an initial public offering. The company rejected that call this
month, saying the entertainment business is a crucial part of
its corporate strategy. Loeb said he was “disappointed” and
would continue to seek a dialog with the company.  Elissa Doyle, a spokeswoman for Third Point, declined to
comment on the holdings.  Zenia Mucha , a spokeswoman for Disney,
didn’t respond to a request for comment.  Disney fell 2.5 percent to $62.38 at the close in New York,
valuing Loeb’s shares at about $112 million. The company has a
market value of more than $111 billion and has gained 25 percent
this year. A trust associated with the late Apple Inc. co-founder  Steve Jobs  is the largest investor with a 7.3 percent
stake, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Loeb’s filing didn’t show shares of Sony. The investor said
in a June 17 letter to Sony Chief Executive Officer Kazuo Hirai
that Third Point owned 70 million shares through direct
ownership and cash-settled swaps as of mid-June, and is
interested in representation on Sony’s board.  Loeb Holdings  The entertainment unit of Sony came under criticism from
Loeb amid disappointing box-office sales this year for two film
releases: “After Earth” and “White House Down.” Loeb pushed
for a partial sale of the division as a way to boost the
performance and accountability of Sony’s entertainment unit.  Third Point also holds shares of Yahoo! Inc. valued at
$1.56 billion, two classes of shares in Liberty Global Plc, the
international cable TV service controlled by billionaire  John Malone , and an investment in 21st Century Fox Inc., the film and
TV company controlled by  Rupert Murdoch .  The investor also added 845,000 shares of Deerfield,
Illinois-based fertilizer maker  CF Industries Holdings Inc. (CF)  in
the second quarter, valued at about $144.9 million at the end of
June, according to the filing. Third Point originally disclosed
the investment in the largest U.S. producer of nitrogen
fertilizer in its second-quarter letter to investors last month,
without specifying the size of the stake.  Third Point also bought 8.5 million American depository
receipts of Irish pharmaceutical company Elan Corp., valued at
$120.2 million. Last month, Perrigo Co., a U.S. maker of over-the-counter medicines, agreed to buy Elan for $8.6 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net ;
Alexis Leondis in New York at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  