-- Oklahoma Ban on Applying Islamic Law Halted by U.S. Court
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-08-16T19:18:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/oklahoma-ban-on-applying-islamic-law-halted-by-u-s-court.html
Oklahoma ’s voter-approved amendment
to the state’s constitution to prevent its courts from
considering international law or Islam’s Shariah law was
permanently blocked by a U.S. judge.  The measure, which the judge said was approved by 70
percent of the state’s voters in November 2010, was found to
violate the guarantee of religious freedom contained in the U.S.
Constitution’s First Amendment.  “While the public has an interest in the will of the
voters being carried out, the court finds that the public has a
more profound and long-term interest in upholding an
individual’s constitutional rights,” U.S. District Judge Vicki Miles-LaGrange in Oklahoma City said in her ruling yesterday.  The state failed to prove a compelling interest for the
law, Miles-LaGrange said. She also rejected Oklahoma’s request
to sever the offending portions of the amendment, concluding
that without the Shariah provision, the measure might not have
passed.  “The public debate, public discussions, articles, radio
ads and robocalls” regarding the amendment “all primarily and
overwhelmingly focused on the Shariah law provisions,” Miles-LaGrange said.  Two Days  The case was filed two days after the 2010 election by an
 Ann Arbor , Michigan-born Muslim, Muneer Awad, who served as
executive director of the Oklahoma chapter of the Council on
American-Islamic Relations.  A November 2010 court order preliminarily blocking
certification of the election results was upheld last year by a
Denver-based U.S. appeals court.  “This law unfairly singled out one faith and one faith
only,” Ryan Kiesel, executive director of the  American Civil
Liberties Union  of Oklahoma, said in a statement. “This
amendment was nothing more than a solution in search of a
problem.”  “We have received the order and, as always, we are in the
process of carefully reviewing the judge’s decision,” state
Attorney General E. Scott Pruitt said today in an e-mailed
statement.  The case is Awad v. Ziriax, U.S. District Court, Western
District of Oklahoma ( Oklahoma City ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at
   aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  