-- Holcim Scales Back 2013 Profit Forecast on Global Economy
-- B y   P a t r i c k   W i n t e r s
-- 2013-08-15T05:41:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/holcim-scales-back-2013-profit-forecast-on-global-economy.html
Holcim Ltd. (HOLN) , the world’s largest
cement maker, lowered its profit forecast for 2013 as the
worldwide economy grew less than expected in the first six
months and demand fell short of forecasts from India to  Mexico .  Second-quarter net income rose 1.7 percent to 383 million
Swiss francs ($410.6 million) from 377 million francs a year
earlier, the Jona, Switzerland-based company said in a
 statement . Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg predicted 369 million
francs. Sales of 5.3 billion francs were less than the 5.5
billion-franc average  estimate .  “Global economic growth in the first half of 2013 was
weaker than foreseen,”  Holcim said, adding that construction
activity was hurt by bad weather for building. Excluding
acquisitions and disposals, operating earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization and operating profit are
likely to increase this year, Holcim said, scaling back from a
May 8 forecast of “significant organic growth.”  Chief Executive Officer Bernard Fontana, the first outsider
to lead Holcim when he took over last year, is pressing ahead
with plant closings across  Europe  to free up cash for
investments in cement plants in  Asia  and Latin America. French
competitor  Lafarge SA (LG)  said July 26 that it will sell more assets
to cut debt after a decline in European demand and poor weather
for construction cut second-quarter profit.  Lafarge, like Holcim, is cutting costs and pushing sales of
higher-margin services to ease debt, amid a lingering slump in
Europe’s construction activity. Fontana has pledged to gain as
much as 700 million francs in operating profit this year from
tweaking pricing, closing plants and cutting energy costs under
Holcim’s Leadership Journey reorganization program.  Operating profit rose by 376 million francs in the first
half as a result of Leadership Journey measures, Holcim said.  Holcim stuck to a forecast for increasing cement sales this
year, driven by higher sales in Asia Pacific and  Latin America ,
while lowering its prediction for  North America , saying that it
now expects sales to be unchanged compared to a previous
forecast for growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Winters in Zurich at 
 pwinters3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  