-- On Japan Surrender Day, Chinese Lose the Outrage
-- B y   A d a m   M i n t e r
-- 2013-08-15T16:18:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/on-japan-surrender-day-chinese-lose-the-outrage.html
(Corrects nationality of leaders in fourth paragraph.)  At 9:35 this morning,  Shanghai ’s
state-owned Xinmin Evening News newspaper  tweeted  a reminder to
its 1.8 million followers on the Sina Weibo microblogging
service: “The Japanese surrendered 68 years ago today!” The
tweet honored the about 35 million Chinese who died during World
War II and included five black-and-white images from the war,
including a photo of a Japanese soldier standing over a trench
filled with the bodies of Chinese civilians, and another of
Japanese soldiers loading Chinese into trucks.  Images like these would be emotionally charged in any
country that suffered a foreign invasion. But in China, where
there’s a long-standing national consensus that Japan has never
truly apologized for World War II, they have ongoing resonance.
In recent weeks, it has only grown stronger with news (heavily
 promoted  by Chinese state-owned news organizations) that  Japan ’s
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe is seeking to repeal Japan’s pacifist
war-time constitution and that Deputy Prime Minister Taro Aso is
 suggesting  Japan should follow Nazi  Germany ’s example on
constitutional reform. There was also the  appearance  of Japan’s
imperial “rising sun” flag at a South Korean soccer match, and
the  launch  of Japan’s biggest naval vessel since the end of
World War II, a vessel that  shares a name  with a ship that
partook in the Japanese invasion of China.  These events, combined with a year of diplomatic and
military tension between China and Japan in the  East China Sea ,
and the memory of 2012’s nationwide anti-Japanese riots, made
the run-up to this year’s anniversary of the Japanese surrender
particularly tense. Making matters even worse was the question
of whether Abe would make a  controversial visit  to  Tokyo ’s
notorious Yasukuni Shrine honoring the 2.5 million Japanese who
died in the war.  The shrine memorializes 14 Class-A war criminals from World
War II, including the executed former prime minister Hideki Tojo. In past years, senior Japanese leaders, including Prime
Minister  Junichiro Koizumi  in the 2000s, have  visited  the site,
much to the dismay of Chinese and Koreans. On Aug. 7, People’s
Daily, the flagship publication of the Chinese Communist Party,
 wrote  that a visit this year would serve as an expression of a
perverted political mindset still grounded in the 1930s:  “As deviant right-wing views grow stronger, all sorts of
words and deeds involving blatant denial, beautifying
aggression, and condoning abuses of human rights manifest
themselves in Japan.”  The consequences of this outlook, the editors wrote, will
be international marginalization and opportunities for China to
seize the moral high ground in disputes:  “Aug. 15 is the anniversary of the day on which the people
of  Asia  finally succeeded in freeing themselves from the
ravaging effects of Japanese militarism. We wish that right-wing
Japanese politicians would amend their view of history, and stop
stirring up trouble and anger.”  Abe is no doubt keenly aware of the cost of further
conflict with China (the Japanese-Chinese conflict over the
Diaoyu Island chain  cost  the Japanese economy dearly in 2012).
So, late Wednesday, he announced that he wouldn’t visit Yasukuni
but would instead send a sacred tree branch purchased with
personal funds. However, he made clear his ministers would be
free to attend the shrine. Two cabinet members, as well as
Koizumi’s son, were  photographed  entering the shrine early this
morning.  By the time most Chinese were waking up, those images were
already circulating online. The Xinmin Evening News included
three of them with the five black-and-white World War II images
in its morning tweet. Curiously, though, despite having 1.8
million followers and a photo set perfectly tuned to ignite
anger, the tweet failed to garner much interest. By late
afternoon, it had been forwarded less than 100 times and
generated fewer than 20 comments. By contrast, People’s Daily
tweeted nine far more graphic World War II images of Japanese
atrocities against the Chinese without any reference to Yasukuni
visits past or present. The post received more than 36,500
forwards.  The most striking reaction to today’s Yasukuni visits has
been how little interest they seem to generating on Chinese
social media. Unlike in the  past , at no point during the day did
“Yasukuni,” “815” (commonly used shorthand for the surrender
day), or other associated words appear on Sina Weibo’s trending
topic list or the “hot search term” list at Baidu,  China ’s
leading search engine. (This may be by design: Trending and hot
topic lists in China are often censored to downplay certain
topics.)  But even with what appears to be a free discussion of the
anniversary and Yasukuni, there’s a decided lack of online anti-Japanese anger of the sort that has characterized disputes
between the two countries in the past. What accounts for this
indifference? Certainly, there’s no lack of  grassroots Chinese
enmity  toward Japan. Rather, it seems that China’s online
communities aren’t particularly worked up about how Japanese
commemorate their war dead.  Instead, many Chinese commentators are  wondering  when the
Chinese government will do more to honor those Chinese who died
during World War II. One of the more pointed comments was made
by Zhou Pengan, a semi-famous Communist Party official in Anhui,
Province, who  tweeted  to Sina Weibo:  “Chinese always react violently when Japanese politicians
visit the Yasukuni shrine. But Chinese should realize that the
spirits of the soldiers are heroes in the eyes of the Japanese.
How could politicians not visit? We should reflect upon how we
treat our martyrs and when our politicians might hold a national
memorial ceremony for them.”  That ceremony didn’t happen on Thursday, and it’s unlikely
to happen any time soon. The Yasukuni Shrine, however, is likely
to remain a mainstay of Chinese news for many years to come.  (Adam Minter, the Shanghai correspondent for the World View
blog, is writing “Junkyard Planet,” a book on the global
recycling industry. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the author of this article: Adam Minter at
 ShanghaiScrap@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article: Kirsten
Salyer at  ksalyer@bloomberg.net . 