-- Hong Kong Bourse Says Second-Quarter Profit Up 10 Percent
-- B y   E l e n i   H i m a r a s
-- 2013-08-15T10:22:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/hong-kong-bourse-says-second-quarter-profit-up-10-percent.html
Hong Kong  Exchanges & Clearing Ltd.,
the world’s second-biggest bourse operator by market value, said
profit climbed 10 percent last quarter as trading volumes rose.  Net income increased to HK$1.17 billion ($151 million) in
the three months through June 30 from HK$1.07 billion in the
same period a year earlier, according to a statement today. The
profit compares with the HK$1.15 billion average estimate of
seven analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Led by Chief Executive Officer Charles Li, the bourse
acquired the London Metal Exchange, the largest platform for
trading industrial-metals futures, for $2.2 billion in December
to expand into commodities. The benchmark  Hang Seng Index  fell
0.5 percent this year, the only decline among developed markets
tracked by Bloomberg, amid concern about  China ’s economy and
speculation the U.S. Federal Reserve will pare stimulus.  “People are still very cautious toward China,” said  Alex Wong , a Hong Kong-based director at Ample Capital Ltd., adding
that trading volumes had fallen since the beginning of the third
quarter. “There have been some encouraging signs in economic
numbers but people may not be too confident yet, so I think
turnover will remain at a sub-par level.”  Paring Decline  The bourse operator’s  stock  rose 0.2 percent to HK$126.50
in Hong Kong trading, paring its 2013 decline to 4.1 percent.
The Bloomberg World Exchanges Index rose 17 percent this year
through yesterday.  Data last week showed China’s industrial output beat
estimates, after a two-quarter slowdown in economic growth. The
U.S. central bank, led by Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , will
probably reduce its $85 billion in monthly bond purchases at its
meeting on Sept. 17-18, according to 65 percent of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg from Aug. 9 to Aug. 13.  “Looking forward, the global financial market remains
challenging, in particular with the anticipated unwinding of the
liquidity easing policy in the U.S,” Chow Chung Kong, Hong Kong
Exchanges’ chairman, said in the statement. “Trading activities
at HKEx in the first half of 2013 were better than those in the
corresponding period last year.”  The daily average value of shares bought and sold in Hong
Kong rose 20 percent to HK$68.3 billion in the six months
through June from the same part of 2012, according to the
statement. That compares with a 130 percent surge on  Japan ’s
Topix Index and a 32 percent jump in  Singapore , according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Average daily turnover in  Australia 
rose 16 percent.  LME Profit  The LME contributed about 11 percent of Hong Kong
Exchanges’ HK$2.33 billion profit in the first half of the year,
according to today’s statement. The average daily volume of LME
metals contracts traded rose 13 percent, compared with a 5
percent gain in the first three months of the year.  Hong Kong Exchanges’ equity rating was upgraded to
overweight from neutral this week at JPMorgan Chase & Co. on
expectations of increased trading volume in coming months, while
the June 2014 price target was cut to HK$135 from HK$155.  “We expect volumes to improve by 10 percent in the next
three months, before subsiding in December,” JPMorgan analysts
Harsh Wardhan Modi in Singapore and Josh Klaczek in Hong Kong
wrote in a note dated Aug. 12. “This pick-up in volumes should
lead to the stock price moving up in tandem.”  Revenue Increases  Revenue increased 17 percent in the second quarter to
HK$2.2 billion, Hong Kong Exchanges said. Operating expenses
climbed 37 percent to HK$672 million. Costs rose last half as
the bourse included expenses from LME, it said.  LME is considering three candidates to replace Chief
Executive Officer  Martin Abbott , who plans to leave at year-end,
two people familiar with the process said this month. The
commodities exchange is also fending off an antitrust lawsuit in
the U.S. on allegations the company conspired with banks to
drive up costs to restrain aluminum supplies.  “LME management’s initial assessment is that the suits are
without merit and LME will contest them vigorously,” Hong Kong
Exchanges said in today’s statement.  Funds raised through initial public offerings in Hong Kong
jumped 29 percent in the first six months of the year to HK$39.7
billion, while futures and options turnover reached a record on
June 25, Hong Kong Exchanges said. The exchange operator this
month introduced contracts linked to the CES China 120 Index,
which tracks the most liquid shares listed in both Hong Kong and
the mainland.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eleni Himaras in Hong Kong at 
 ehimaras@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  