-- Ophir Falls Most in Year on Africa Drilling Delays: London Mover
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2013-08-15T09:55:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/ophir-falls-most-in-year-on-africa-drilling-delays-london-mover.html
Ophir Energy Plc (OPHR) , a U.K. explorer in
East and West Africa, fell the most in a year in London trading
after announcing delays in drilling and exploration plans.  Ophir slid as much as 10 percent to 350 pence, the biggest
drop since Aug. 2, 2012. Ophir and  BG Group Plc (BG/)  delayed plans to
start deepwater drilling off Tanzania in September. The explorer
also delayed exploration plans in Gabon, Equatorial  Guinea  and
is studying its options in  Ghana  after unsuccessful drilling.  “We’ve not stopped drilling,” Chief Executive Officer
Nick Cooper told analysts on a call today. “People are acting
as if we haven’t been drilling in the first half of the year.
We’ve been drilling continuously.”  Ophir fell 9.4 percent to 353.20 pence by 10:36 a.m. local
time, making it the worst  performer  on the  FTSE All-Share Index. (ASX)   Ophir, plans to drill 10 wells through 2014 in search of
about 5 billion barrels of oil equivalent resources, according
to a  presentation  by the London-based company.  It is seeking partners to share project costs in Gabon,
Equatorial Guinea, Kenya and Tanzania, Cooper said. “We reset
the clock in March and we recommenced negotiations pretty soon
thereafter,” he said. “It’s a weak macro environment” for
raising capital for exploration and production.  Ophir plans to begin drilling the Mlinzi well in Block 7
off Tanzania in the fourth quarter. It’s the company’s largest
well in its campaign seeking about 3.5 billion barrels of
resources and will cost about $100 million to drill, Cooper
said. The company also plans to bid for exploration licenses in
Myanmar to expand its reach beyond  Africa , the CEO said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  