-- Morgan Stanley Sees Pound at $1.48 on Carney Rates Pledge
-- B y   M o r g a n e   L a p e y r e
-- 2013-08-16T09:22:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/morgan-stanley-sees-pound-at-1-48-on-carney-rates-clarification.html
Morgan Stanley (MS)  says the pound will
weaken 5 percent to $1.48 in three months on bets Bank of
England Governor Mark Carney will stress he’ll keep interest
rates low even as data signal the economy is strengthening.  The pound’s advance to an eight-week high yesterday after
retail sales in July rose more than economists forecast provides
an opportunity to sell the currency, strategists led by London-based Hans Redeker said. The central bank is more open to
additional stimulus than market prices suggest and may resume
asset purchases that tend to weaken the pound, they said.  “The market is obsessed with the economic momentum, but
there is a substantial output gap in the U.K., which will
require several years of good economic performance to close,”
Redeker, the head of global foreign-exchange strategy, said in a
phone interview yesterday. “The Bank of England will make it
clear pretty soon that it is focusing on the output gap.”  The pound was little changed at $1.5637 at 10:19 a.m.
London time, after appreciating to $1.5652 yesterday, the
strongest level since June 19.  Investors should sell at $1.5530, the strategists wrote in
a note to clients, betting on a drop to $1.48, a level unseen
since June 2010. Sterling fell to this year’s low of $1.4814 on
July 9.  Signs that the U.K. economy is strengthening, with falling
jobless claims and improving Purchasing Managers Data in July
and the dissent by the Monetary Policy Committee’s Martin Weale
against the new forward-guidance framework have fueled bets that
the Bank of England will need to raise interest rates sooner
than the central bank anticipates.  The U.K. benchmark interest rate has been at a record-low
0.5 percent since March 2009.  “Expectations for the economy have risen significantly
over the past four weeks,” Redeker said. “Given the amount of
positive surprises so far, it’s unlikely that further data will
add to current expectations.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Morgane Lapeyre in London at 
 mlapeyre@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nicholas Reynolds at 
 nreynolds2@bloomberg.net  