-- Morgan Stanley Leads in Cutting Credit Correlation Risk
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2013-08-15T13:59:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/morgan-stanley-leads-in-cutting-credit-correlation-risk.html
Morgan Stanley (MS)  cut risk in its
credit-correlation portfolio by 69 percent from this year’s peak
as U.S. banks seek to reduce the capital tied to derivatives
businesses built up before the financial crisis.  Morgan Stanley’s comprehensive-risk measure, which seeks to
estimate potential losses in correlation positions over one year
with 99.9 percent certainty, fell to $362 million at June 30,
from a high of $1.16 billion in the first quarter, according to
a  regulatory filing  by the New York-based company released this
week. The risk-weighted assets tied to that business dropped
$4.85 billion to $19.3 billion.  The bank halted large acquisitions of credit-correlation
portfolios in an effort to boost  capital ratios  after buying
positions with a notional value of more than $50 billion over
the past three years, Bloomberg News reported in May. Chief
Executive Officer  James Gorman , 55, has said his company is
exiting structured businesses including securitization units to
focus on trading for clients.  Credit-correlation positions, primarily derivatives linked
to corporate debt, indexes of companies and tranches of those
indexes, produced billions of dollars of losses in the financial
crisis. They included complex products such as collateralized
debt obligations, or CDOs, that comprised pieces of other CDOs.  Rivals Reducing  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Bank of America Corp. ,  Goldman Sachs (GS) 
Group Inc. and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  have all cut their risk-weighted
assets tied to correlation positions by at least $1.8 billion,
according to reports disclosed this month. Charlotte, North
Carolina-based Bank of America  has  $19.7 billion of such RWAs
and New York-based Goldman Sachs has  $20.8 billion . Citigroup
 cut  its RWAs by 22 percent in the quarter to $11.1 billion.  JPMorgan, which lost more than $6.2 billion last year in a
unit that held credit-correlation positions, has $52.6 billion
of such risk-weighted assets. The New York-based bank’s
 comprehensive-risk measure  was $2.47 billion at the end of the
second quarter, almost quadruple that of any of the other firms.  Risk-weighted assets tied to correlation positions are
determined by the comprehensive-risk measure plus a surcharge.
RWAs under current rules are 12.5 times that figure.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Christine Harper at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  