-- OTP Drops Most in Week as Russian Bad Loans Rise: Budapest Mover
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-08-15T10:02:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/otp-drops-most-in-week-as-russian-bad-loans-rise-budapest-mover.html
OTP Bank Nyrt., Hungary’s largest
lender, headed for the biggest drop in a week as an increase in
bad loans because of a “setback” in the Russian and Ukrainian
units’ performance outweighed second-quarter profit growth.  The shares fell as much as 1.6 percent, the most on a
closing basis since Aug. 6, and traded down 0.8 percent at 4,460
forint by 11:58 a.m. in Budapest. The stock led a decline in the
benchmark BUX  index , which slipped 0.6 percent.  OTP’s non-performing loans ratio climbed to 20.8 percent by
the end of June from 19.9 percent in the first three months,
boosted primarily by Russia and Ukraine, it said in a  statement 
today. The group posted an adjusted net income of 52.3 billion
forint ($232.3 million), compared with a median estimate of 43.1
billion forint in a Bloomberg survey of five analysts.  “Despite better than expected results, the underlying
trend has deteriorated,” Attila Gyurcsik, a Budapest-based
analyst at Concorde Ertekpapir Zrt., Hungary’s biggest broker,
wrote by e-mail. “Because of the Russian performance, earnings
estimates should be cut in the future, while the pace of asset
quality deterioration in Ukraine and  Hungary  are also red
flags.”  OTP’s Russian subsidiary posted a profit of 2.6 billion
forint, down 66 percent on the previous quarter and 76 percent
from a year earlier, according to the statement. A lower
effective tax rate, foreign-exchange gains and unexpected large
fee income contributed to the group’s higher-than-expected
profit, Gyurcsik said.  The shares slumped 4.7 percent in July, when the government
announced plans to convert foreign-currency mortgages to forint-linked loans, with banks bearing a part of the burden. Chief
Executive Officer Sandor Csanyi fueled OTP’s slide last month
when he sold most of his direct share holdings in the bank.  Risks are “definitely on the downside” for Concorde’s
“equal weight” recommendation for the stock, Gyurcsik said.  Six analysts recommend a buy on OTP shares, while 11 say
hold and 3 rate it as sell, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  