-- Tourmaline Poised for Rebound as Gas Gap Wanes
-- B y   E d w a r d   W e l s c h
-- 2013-08-15T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/tourmaline-poised-for-rebound-as-gas-gap-wanes.html
Shares of Canadian natural gas
producers led by  Peyto Exploration & Development Corp. (PEY)  and
 Tourmaline Oil Corp. (TOU)  are poised to recover as a discount on the
fuel triggered by increased pipeline tolls diminishes.  The gap between Canadian natural gas exported from Alberta
and U.S. prices has more than doubled to $1.10 per thousand
cubic feet after  TransCanada Corp. (TRP)  raised rates July 1 for
short-term gas shipments on its Canadian Mainline system. Since
then, shares of 13 companies with a market value of C$100
million ($97 million) to C$10 billion that get most of their
production from natural gas have dropped an average of 6.2
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The discount will probably disappear over the next couple
of months as producers sign long-term contracts on the new
tolling system and market prices adjust, said Alistair Toward,
an oil and gas analyst with PI Financial Corp.  “It’s certainly setting itself up for there to be a mini-rally,” Calgary-based Toward said by phone on Aug. 9. “We’ll
hit the low and we’ll get an inflection point, but I’m just not
sure that we’re at the inflection point yet.”  Canadian energy regulators ordered TransCanada to cut
nearly in half its tolls for long-term contracts on the west-to-east Mainline system in order to make gas from Western Canada
more competitive with U.S. shale gas exports from  Pennsylvania 
and other states. After the change, the company boosted short-term tolls, which more than doubled for some delivery points.  Shares Drop  Gas shipped from the Alberta AECO hub is traded at $1.10
per million British thermal units below the U.S. benchmark Henry
Hub price yesterday compared with a June low of 48 cents.  U.S. natural gas for September delivery rose 5.7 cents or
1.7 percent to $3.342 per million British thermal units
yesterday on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange. Alberta AECO
natural gas prices rose 4.25 cents or 1.9 percent to $2.2475 per
MMBtu,  according  to Natural Gas Exchange Inc., a Calgary-based
electronic exchange owned by TMX Group Ltd.  Shares of Peyto have lost 11 percent from a recent peak on
July 9 and Tourmaline has dropped 12 percent from its peak for
the year on July 8.  “The spread blow-out I think is something that industry
sees as temporary,” Petyo Chief Executive Officer Darren Gee
said in phone interview yesterday from Calgary, where the
company is based. “The real effect has been that we do have
about half our production that isn’t forward-sold that floats on
the AECO price. So as it dropped from $3 to $2, we lost on that
component of our production in the short-term.”  Larger Producers  Peyto said Aug. 13 second-quarter profit more than doubled
from a year earlier to C$37.8 million, or 25 cents a share, ith
production rising 41 percent to 58,145 barrel-of-oil equivalents
a day.  Calls to Calgary-based Tourmaline CEO  Michael Rose  and to
Scott Kirker, Tourmaline’s general counsel, on Aug. 14 were not
returned. On Aug. 7 Tourmaline  reported  second-quarter net
income surged to C$30 million or 16 cents a share. Production
rose 38 percent to 70,178 barrel-of-oil equivalents per day.  Larger Canadian producers, such as  Encana Corp. (ECA) , haven’t
been as vulnerable because they have larger balance sheets to
withstand lower prices, and have also used their stronger
financial position to buy hedges to protect against the falling
Alberta gas price. Encana has risen 1.7 percent since June 28.  ‘Picking Away’  Share declines for companies such as Tourmaline and Peyto
may be only temporary, because producers and buyers will soon
become acquainted with the new tolling system and sign cheaper,
long-term pipeline contracts, said  Martin King , an energy
strategist at FirstEnergy Capital Corp. in Calgary.  “The market is going to adjust to get around it and you’ll
start to see the pressure come off,” King said in an Aug. 9
phone interview. “But that is going to take maybe weeks to
months for the market to kind of wrap its head around this.”  A team of analysts led by  Matthew Taylor  at National Bank
Financial Inc. in Calgary advised clients in an Aug. 5 research
note to buy mid-sized gas producers including Peyto and
Tourmaline if they continue to slide.  “This is not the first time the AECO basis has blown out
and it will certainly not be the last,” Taylor wrote. “We
believe it presents a good opportunity to capitalize on picking
away at some higher-quality names.”  Greg Dean, a portfolio manager at CI Investments Inc., said
he’s already added to his investments in some of the falling gas
shares.  Adding Tourmaline  “We added to Tourmaline in a pretty significant way on the
pull back,” said Dean, who helps manage a C$7.9 billion
portfolio for CI Investment’s Cambridge Global Asset Management.
“You’ve seen some of the higher-multiple gas stocks sell off
anywhere from 10 to 15 percent and some more, even the high
quality ones like a Tourmaline or  Kelt Exploration Ltd. (KEL) ”  Dean said he’s optimistic about the companies because he
expects the wider AECO differential will moderate, and the  New
York Mercantile Exchange  futures forward curve for natural gas
shows prices rising by about 12 percent to $3.76 per MMBtu by
January.  PI Financial’s Toward said the gas equities may rally on
even small changes in the relative price of gas.  “When the pricing fluctuates between $2 and $4, there’s a
gas rally, and if investors are not exposed to that, then you’re
kind of probably missing the mark,” he said.  He’s not enthusiastic about the long-term prospects for the
Canadian gas producers, since the growth of production in the
U.S. from shale basins has dramatically lowered the price of gas
and the economic viability of many fields in  Canada , Toward
said.  No Joy  Today’s U.S. benchmark prices at $3.3425 per MMBtu are
almost 60 percent lower than they were on the same day five
years ago, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. U.S. natural
gas  production  has increased by 20 percent to 2.2 trillion cubic
feet a month over the last five years through May, according to
the U.S. Energy Information Administration.  “At much below $4, there’s just not a lot of joy in the
Western Canadian Sedimentary basin,” Toward said. “It’s not
that there aren’t producers that are doing well at that price,
but they are doing well at that price on usually a pretty small
fraction of their overall production base. So their best
properties are surviving at those levels, but the company as a
whole is probably not prospering.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Welsch in Calgary at 
 ewelsch1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  