-- Housing Rebound Underpins Danish Recovery Bet, Vestager Says
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2013-08-15T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/housing-rebound-underpins-danish-recovery-bet-vestager-says.html
A rebound in Denmark’s housing
market shows the recovery the government has been waiting for is
now underway, Economy Minister  Margrethe Vestager  said.  Apartment prices rose 2.5 percent in May from April, and
12.4 percent from a year earlier,  Statistics Denmark  said on
July 31.  House prices  rose 0.5 percent in May from the month
earlier, and 3.9 percent from a year earlier.  “There was evidence of a recovery in the housing market in
2012 and prices have risen slightly in 2013,” Vestager said in
an e-mailed reply to questions. “Even though activity in the
housing market continues to be low, the gains, along with other
indicators, support our cautious optimism on the Danish
economy.”  The government, which is due to publish its preliminary
budget proposal later this month, in May cut its economic
forecast for the year to 0.5 percent growth from the 0.7 percent
seen in April. It kept its 1.6 percent growth estimate for 2014.  “I’m seeing the economy in the same way as when we set out
our course earlier this year,” Vestager said. “ Denmark  is
heading in the direction we forecast.”  Denmark’s $355 billion economy has struggled to surface
from a burst housing bubble that drove property prices down 20
percent from a 2007 peak and wiped out more than a dozen
community banks.  Gross domestic product  contacted 0.5 percent
last year and stagnated in the first quarter, the statistics
office estimates.  Stimulus Calls  The government-backed Economic Council has urged the Social
Democrat-led coalition of Prime Minister Helle Thorning-Schmidt
to add stimulus to revive consumer demand and help create jobs.  Vestager said this month’s budget proposal won’t include
additional stimulus measures, arguing the structural flaws
holding back the economy won’t be fixed through short-term
support.  According to some economists, recent housing data now
suggest signs of overheating. The 12.4 percent annual gain in
apartment prices “can’t be justified on the back of the
economic development,”  Steen Bocian , chief economist at Danske
Bank A/S, said July 31. “At this point, we’re not looking at a
bubble, but if the development continues, there’s a considerable
risk.”  Danes have taken advantage of record-low  interest rates 
driven down by AAA rated Denmark’s status as a haven from
 Europe ’s debt crisis. While private debt is 310 percent of
disposable incomes, according to the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development, government debt is less than half
the euro-area average. The central bank’s deposit rate has been
below zero since July 2012.  “None of us knows if house prices adjusted enough or if
the  property market  will need to take another downturn,” Bocian
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  