-- How to Beat Al-Qaeda in Yemen
-- B y   G r e g o r y   D .   J o h n s e n
-- 2013-08-15T17:24:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/how-to-beat-al-qaeda-in-yemen.html
Somewhere in Yemen are about two
dozen individuals whom the U.S. is looking to capture or kill.
These are al-Qaeda’s senior operational leaders, the men
administration officials think are plotting to attack the U.S.
and its interests abroad.  To kill them, the U.S. has carried out dozens of air and
drone strikes -- the most conservative estimate puts the number
at 91 -- over the past 3 1/2 years. Few strikes have been
successes. They have killed a lot of people but very few of the
top commanders.  Since December 2009, the U.S. has killed somewhere between
632 and 1,231 people in Yemen. Only the tiniest fraction --
about four, according to both the best open-source reporting and
al-Qaeda’s own eulogies -- are individuals who could be
considered top figures within al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula,
or AQAP, the al-Qaeda branch based in Yemen. The rest have been
low- and mid-level al-Qaeda fighters and civilians: women,
children and tribesmen. That’s what happens when you use a
scalpel as a hammer. This approach is not only not producing the
results that the Obama administration wants -- AQAP appears to
be growing instead of getting smaller -- but also isn’t
sustainable or cost-effective, let alone prudent.  Drone Fever  Yet faced with a real security threat and seemingly few
options, President  Barack Obama  seems set on this response.
Essentially, the administration’s hope is that by bombing
suspected al-Qaeda targets in Yemen, the U.S. will keep AQAP
back on its heels to the point that the group can’t plot, plan
and launch attacks against the U.S.  Drone strikes can be an effective weapon. And the
administration’s reluctance to put boots on the ground is
understandable. But while the Obama administration is unlikely
to rethink its entire strategy, it can do a lot to reduce the
collateral damage in Yemen and increase the good, both in terms
of lives and broader goals:  -- Use drones more judiciously. The U.S. carries out two
types of drone strikes in Yemen. The first are “high-value
target” strikes, which take place when the U.S. knows the
identity of a target in a car or a house, although not
necessarily the identities of everyone present.  The second type is called a signature strike. Some in the
Central Intelligence Agency refer to these as “crowd killing.”
This is when the U.S. doesn’t know the identities of the
individuals it is killing. These strikes target “patterns of
life” -- things such as visiting a house the U.S. has linked to
al-Qaeda, or when a group of men get in a car together and their
phones indicate they have all been in contact with known al-Qaeda figures.  Signature strikes are particularly problematic in Yemen,
where most members of AQAP are Yemenis who are linked to local
society through their tribes and clans. In such an environment,
determining if the bearded man with a gun is a member of al-Qaeda or merely a tribesman is incredibly difficult. Many of the
civilian casualties in Yemen, which are helping to spark more
recruits for al-Qaeda, are a result of signature strikes. And
they need to be stopped.  Yemenis don’t take to the streets when legitimate high-value targets are killed; rather, it is the  civilian casualties 
that provoke so much anger. The assassination of U.S.-born
cleric Anwar al-Awlaki with a drone in September 2011 caused
barely a ripple in Sanaa. It was the death of his 16-year-old
son in a drone strike two weeks later that enraged so many. The
problem is not that the U.S. is using drones in Yemen, but that
it is using them too often and making too many mistakes.  -- Build up human intelligence. Drones are an impressive
piece of  technology , but they are also a dependent piece of
technology. It doesn’t matter that a drone hovering far above
the Yemeni desert can hit a car traveling down the road if it
hits the wrong car. The lack of good, on-the-ground human
intelligence is the Achilles’ heel of the U.S. in a place like
Yemen.  More than a decade after the October 2000 suicide attack on
the  USS Cole , the U.S. in Yemen is still the proverbial blind
man. It doesn’t have nearly enough  Arabic speakers  or assets of
its own on the ground, which means that it often has to rely on
local intelligence agencies for help. And this can lead to
problems. In early 2010, the U.S. targeted what it thought was
an al-Qaeda meeting in the desert only to realize after the fact
that it had killed a local politician, apparently on
deliberately bad intelligence from the Yemeni government.  The U.S. has already lost more than a decade as the CIA
transformed itself into a paramilitary organization that
emphasized killing over the collecting and sifting of
intelligence. John Brennan, a 25-year veteran of the CIA and its
new director, has said that he wants to return the agency to its
more traditional role. The faster this happens, the more
accurate U.S. drone strikes will become, which will in turn
result in fewer strikes, fewer civilian casualties and fewer
recruits for al-Qaeda.  -- Create space for tribes and clerics. The only people in
a position to decisively disrupt, dismantle and defeat AQAP are
the tribesmen and clerics in Yemen. It is men like Salim al-Jabir, a local preacher, who have the standing and stature to
take the fight to al-Qaeda. Unfortunately, the more drone
strikes there are, the more difficult this becomes. In al-Jabir’s case, it became impossible: In late 2012, a trio of al-Qaeda operatives called a meeting with the young preacher in an
attempt to get him to tone down his rhetoric. That meeting was
struck by a drone; al-Jabir, a companion and the three al-Qaeda
members were killed.  By taking signature strikes off the table and limiting the
number of high-value-target strikes, the U.S. will open up space
for Yemen’s tribesmen and clerics to stand up to the terrorists.
After all, AQAP has killed far more Yemenis than it has
Americans.  The U.S. can’t win this war on its own. Right now, this is
a fight between the U.S. and al-Qaeda with Yemen as the
battleground. It has to be Yemenis against al-Qaeda, with the
U.S. allying with its Yemeni partners.  More broadly, the U.S. needs to be honest about what it can
do in Yemen as well as what it can’t. Doing nothing isn’t an
option, but neither is trying to do everything on its own. It
has more money, more men, better technology and better weapons
than its enemy. In Yemen, it’s long past time to start putting
those advantages to better use.  (Gregory D. Johnsen is the author of “The Last Refuge:
Yemen, al-Qaeda, and America’s War in Arabia.”)  To contact the writer of this article:
Gregory D. Johnsen at  gjohnsen@princeton.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net . 