-- How the NSA Is Hurting the Tech Sector
-- B y   S t e p h e n   L .   C a r t e r
-- 2013-08-15T22:10:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/how-the-nsa-is-hurting-the-tech-sector.html
So let’s see if we can find the
thread that connects some recent news from the technology world.
Microsoft Corp. has agreed to let users of its forthcoming XBox
One game system  disable the “always on”  motion-sensing camera
that was previously described as a fully integrated component
that couldn’t be turned off. Two companies that offer high-encryption e-mail services, Lavabit and Silent Circle, have
announced they will  cease providing it . Foreign firms interested
in cloud computing, widely viewed as tech’s next profit machine,
 are seriously considering  Asian and European providers instead
of U.S. ones.  In each case, the decision was made after concerns were
raised about security. And the concerns in question were about
the security policies of the U.S. government.  You can consider the National Security Agency’s data-gathering programs a grim necessity to protect the nation or an
outrageous violation of privacy. What is unquestionable is that
they are reshaping the tech marketplace.  Yet it should have been obvious that so extensive a system
of surveillance, no matter how benignly intended, would have
unintended consequences. Some of the ill consequences are even
predictable.  Consider cloud computing. Worldwide spending on the cloud
is expected to double over the next three years to more than
$200 billion. U.S. firms have been leaders in developing the
technology. According to  a new report  from the Information
Technology & Innovation Foundation, however, global worries
about NSA surveillance are likely to reduce U.S. market share.  Scary Numbers  The report’s admittedly loose estimate is that U.S. cloud-computing firms will lose $21 billion to $35 billion in revenue
between now and 2016. According to the report, some 10 percent
of non-U.S. members of the  Cloud Security Alliance  said they’ve
canceled a project with a U.S. company since the disclosure of
the NSA’s surveillance. In addition, 56 percent indicated “that
they would be less likely to use a U.S.-based cloud computing
service.”  These are scary numbers for one of the few true growth
areas in the tech sector. But they are precisely what should
have been expected in the wake of the disclosures. “If I were
an American cloud provider, I would be quite frustrated with my
government right now,”  Neelie Kroes , the European Union’s
commissioner for digital affairs, said in the ITIF report.  It’s true that the NSA never intended for its data-collection activities to become public knowledge. It’s also true
that many of the European allies who are complaining about the
programs have fewer legal protections for data than the U.S.
does. But optics -- the way something looks when at last it’s
exposed -- can also turn out to be an unintended consequence.  Remember that all of this controversy is arising at the
very moment when the brave knight of  Internet security  may be
dying in his armor. We have learned already that it turns out to
be easier than many experts imagined to hack even  thoroughly
hashed passwords . At this year’s Black Hat USA security
conference in  Las Vegas , experts said that recent mathematical
breakthroughs mean that the major encryption protocols on which
Internet security rests are likely to be cracked within  five
years or less . (The NSA, which should know,  recommends  that
businesses switch to more secure protocols that are based on
something called elliptic curve cryptography.)  The government’s fast-growing suite of tools to get around
the security of communications represents a threat to privacy
not in the modern sense of a litigable right, but in the old-fashioned sense of a general belief that one remains anonymous
while moving through the world. When  Abraham Lincoln , in his
search for Confederate spies, authorized the seizure of copies
of all telegrams sent and received in the North, even his own
supporters were outraged -- not because he had violated their
constitutional rights (there was no right to privacy), but
because he had violated the unspoken compact between the
government and the governed.  Scary Powers  It’s being violated again. Few are likely to shed tears for
the child-pornography defendant whose powerfully encrypted hard
drives are, after repeated failures,  finally cracked  by the
federal government. Yet we mustn’t forget that it is in the
nature of bureaucracies to search for more nails to strike once
they’ve finished polishing their hammers.  That’s why  some commentators  worry about another unintended
consequence of the NSA disclosures: Typically, the way to keep a
surveillance program secret is through a sort of triage -- that
is, by not acting on most of what you uncover. That way, those
you are trying to watch can’t reverse-engineer the contours of
your system. They might not even know you are tracking them.  But with knowledge of the NSA’s programs now public, law-enforcement agencies at all levels are demanding access to its
information. But the larger the audience sifting through the
data, the greater the disturbance to the uneasy balance between
enforcing the law and respecting the sphere of privacy -- and
the greater the likely harm to domestic technology companies.  President  Barack Obama  has asked us to trust him to use
wisely whatever has been collected, and there is no reason to
doubt his sincerity. The American tradition, however, is more
the other way around: It’s the government that’s supposed to
trust the people.  (Stephen L. Carter is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
professor of law at  Yale University . He is the author of “The
Violence of Peace: America’s Wars in the Age of Obama” and the
novel “The Impeachment of Abraham Lincoln.” Follow him on
Twitter at  @StepCarter .)  To contact the writer of this article:
Stephen L. Carter at  stephen.carter@yale.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 