-- TowerBrook Said Near to Buying LDC Plane-Parts Unit AIM
-- B y   K i e l   P o r t e r ,   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-08-15T11:21:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/towerbrook-said-near-purchase-of-aim-aviation-from-ldc.html
TowerBrook Capital Partners LP, the
former private-equity arm of Soros Fund Management LLC, is in
talks with the buyout arm of  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  to
purchase British aircraft-interiors maker AIM Aviation Ltd.,
three people with knowledge of the matter said.  LDC may raise as much as 160 million pounds ($249 million)
alongside AIM’s management through a sale to New York-based
TowerBrook, said the people, who asked not to be identified
because the talks are private. An agreement could be announced
as early as this month, they said.  AIM Aviation, based in Bournemouth,  England , provides cabin
interiors to commercial airlines including Emirates, the
world’s largest carrier by international traffic, and Britain’s
Virgin Atlantic Airways Ltd. It also supplies components for
military aircraft from the  Boeing Co. (BA)  C-17 airlifter to
 Finmeccanica SpA (FNC) ’s AgustaWestland AW101 helicopters.  Officials at TowerBrook and LDC declined to comment.  TowerBrook, which was spun out of  George Soros ’s fund-management business in 2005, has more than $8 billion under
management. Founders Ramez Sousou and Neal Moszkowski serve as
co-chief executive officers. The firm in May agreed to buy True
Religion Apparel Inc., a maker of designer jeans, having
previously owned the Jimmy Choo Ltd. luxury shoe brand.  LDC, which specializes in small and mid-sized U.K.
businesses, has completed more than 440 investments since its
founding in 1981, according to its  website .  Private-equity firms typically pool money from pension
plans and endowments with a mandate to buy companies within five
to six years, then sell them and return the money and a profit
after 10 years. The firms usually charge a management fee of as
much as 2 percent and keep 20 percent of the profits from
investments.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kiel Porter in London at 
 kporter17@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  