-- Peltz’s Trian Said to Meet DuPont’s CEO, Boosts Stake
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y   a n d   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 2013-08-15T16:11:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/peltz-s-trian-said-to-meet-dupont-s-ceo-boosts-stake.html
Trian Fund Management LP, the hedge
fund co-founded by activist Nelson Peltz, boosted its stake in
 DuPont Co. (DD)  and met top executives to discuss ways to increase
shareholder value, according to people familiar with the matter.  Trian now owns more than 21 million shares of Wilmington,
Delaware-based DuPont, said one of the people who asked not to
be named because the information isn’t yet public. The stake is
valued at about $1.25 billion at yesterday’s closing share
price. The New York-based fund-management firm yesterday
reported it had 5.78 million shares as of June 30.  In recent weeks Trian has met with Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer  Ellen Kullman  and other senior managers to
talk about ideas, which are outlined in a white paper, to drive
long-term growth, the people said. The Wall Street Journal
reported the talks and higher stake earlier.  Peltz probably is proposing breaking DuPont into two
companies, one focused on its agriculture business and the other
focused on materials,  David Begleiter , a New York-based analyst
at Deutsche Bank AG who recommends buying the shares, said in a
report today.  Such a plan “does not, in our view, create substantial
value,” Begleiter said in the report. DuPont’s businesses in a
breakup would be worth $67 a share, he said.  DuPont fell 1.3 percent to $58.60 at 11:45 a.m. in New
York.  The shares  have gained 30 percent this year.  ‘Very Big’  Trian was first reported by CNBC to have “a very big”
stake in DuPont on July 17. DuPont subsequently announced it was
exploring options for one of its more volatile businesses,
performance-chemicals, which makes titanium dioxide pigment,
Teflon coatings, Freon refrigerants and chemicals such as
cyanide.  “We will evaluate any ideas Trian may have in the context
of our ongoing initiatives to build a higher value, higher-growth company for our shareholders,”  Michael Hanretta , a
DuPont spokesman, said in an e-mail yesterday. “We routinely
engage with our shareholders and welcome constructive input.”  DuPont, which produces thousands of products such as  Kevlar 
anti-ballistic fiber and genetically modified corn, is weighing
a separation of performance chemicals after the unit’s operating
profit plunged 56 percent in the second quarter amid a slump in
prices for titanium dioxide, a white pigment used in paints and
plastics. Before jumping on CNBC’s July report, DuPont shares
had gained 30 percent in the  past decade , trailing the Dow Jones
Industrial Average’s 70 percent increase.  Unit Sale  Under Kullman’s leadership since 2009, DuPont has continued
to shift away from traditional commodity products toward higher-margin businesses that capitalize on meeting global demand for
food, energy and security. DuPont sold its auto-paint unit this
year to private-equity firm Carlyle Group LP for $4.9 billion,
and it acquired food ingredients and enzyme maker Danisco A/S in
2011 for about 33.4 billion kroner ($5.9 billion).  The company this week changed its bylaws to provide payouts
to executives fired in a takeover and to alter how special
meetings are run.  Kullman, under the company’s newly amended bylaws, would
receive three times her annual salary and bonus if fired after a
company takeover, and other executives would get twice their
compensation. New bylaws also require advance notice for
nominating directors or proposing other changes and set  Delaware 
as the jurisdiction for resolving fiduciary duty and
shareholder-rights disputes.  Trian successfully pushed Ingersoll-Rand Plc to spin off
units last year. Peltz also is pressuring PepsiCo Inc., the
world’s largest snack-food maker, to acquire competitor Mondelez
International Inc., formerly known as Kraft Foods Inc. In 2006,
Trian waged a six-month proxy fight with H.J. Heinz Co. to win
seats on the board and persuade management to execute a
turnaround plan.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net ;
Beth Jinks in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  