-- Petrobras Climbs on Speculation Brazil May Allow Price Increases
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-08-15T16:04:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/petrobras-climbs-on-speculation-brazil-may-allow-price-increases.html
Petroleo Brasileiro SA, Brazil’s
state-controlled oil producer, surged to a two-month high after
newspaper  Valor Economico  said the government is considering
allowing the company to increase fuel prices.  The shares rose 3.8 percent to 17.60 reais at 11:56 a.m. in
 Sao Paulo . A close at that level would be the highest since June
18. Trading volume was 93 percent of the three-month daily
average. The benchmark  Ibovespa (IBOV)  sank 1 percent.  Brazil is considering allowing Petrobras, as the company is
known, to gradually increase gasoline and diesel prices, Valor
Economico columnist Claudia Safatle wrote, citing a government
official she didn’t identify. The Rio de Janeiro-based producer
is selling fuel at a discount as the government, which owns a
majority of the company’s voting shares, has refrained since
March from raising fuel prices as part of an effort to control
inflation.  “The shares could be getting a boost from the discussion
of price increases in gasoline and diesel,” Luana Helsinger, an
analyst at GBM Grupo Bursatil Mexicano in  Rio de Janeiro , said
by e-mail. “The company is always requesting a return to price
parity, which doesn’t necessarily happen.”  The government has nothing to announce about its fuel price
policy, Energy Minister Edison Lobao told reporters in Brasilia
today.  Petrobras has increased prices for gasoline 15 percent and
diesel 22 percent since June 2012 to reduce the discount with
international prices. The company plans to eventually bring
domestic fuel prices into line with international prices to
eliminate the losses, Chief Financial Officer Almir Barbassa
said on a conference call on Aug. 12.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  