-- Petrobras Platform Arrivals Promise Production: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 2013-08-15T03:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/petrobras-platform-arrivals-promise-production-corporate-brazil.html
Petroleo Brasileiro SA, the world’s
biggest producer of oil in ultra-deep waters, is showing signs
of a production rebound as suppliers accelerate equipment
deliveries.  Petrobras, as the state-controlled oil producer is known,
has received four of seven offshore production units slated to
arrive this year and the rest are on schedule. Last year, the
company installed one of three planned offshore production units
amid delays that contributed to its first yearly output decline
since 2004 and the first quarterly loss in 13 years.  Production rose to a six-month high in June after Petrobras
started pumping from a second vessel at Lula, Brazil’s second-largest discovery. Domestic output is expected to increase by 9
percent in 2014 and surpass a 2011 peak, Bank of America Corp.
said in a Aug. 1 note to clients. Additional oil sales will ease
reliance on debt markets to finance $237 billion in investments
through 2017, Petrobras Chief Financial Officer Almir Barbassa
said Aug. 12 on a conference call.  “From an operational standpoint this is a turning point,”
 Gianna Bern , president of risk-management adviser Brookshire
Advisory and Research, said by telephone from  Chicago . “This is
some of the toughest work in the industry; getting even one of
these up and running is a feat in itself.”  Petrobras has lost 23 percent for investors this year in
U.S. dollar terms, the worst performance by an  oil company  with
a market value of more than $50 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. ConocoPhillips, returning 19 percent, and
 BG Group Plc (BG/) , yielding 16 percent, are the biggest winners.  Subsidized Fuel  Increased output by the Rio de Janeiro-based company will
help compensate for losses at the company’s refining division
that subsidizes imported gasoline as part of a government policy
to control inflation. The government controls the makeup of
Petrobras’s board through a majority of voting shares.  A weaker Brazilian currency and rising fuel prices abroad
have widened the subsidy on imported gasoline to about 25
percent from about 9 percent in the second quarter, said Auro
Rozenbaum, an analyst at Banco Bradesco SA in  Sao Paulo .  The company plans to eventually bring domestic fuel prices
in line with international prices to eliminate the losses,
Barbassa said on an Aug. 12 conference call.  Petrobras “always” asks for price increases and the
government will study the request, Energy Minister Edison Lobao
said Aug. 13. There are no guarantees it will be granted, he
said.  Oil Price  West Texas Intermediate crude jumped 16 percent on the  New
York  Mercantile Exchange this year to $106.85 a barrel
yesterday.  Petrobras will increase fuel imports in the second half to
compensate for maintenance related shutdowns at two plants and
an expected increase in demand, Jose Cosenza, Petrobras’s head
of refining, said on the Aug. 12 call.  “Petrobras’s operations and its cash generation are likely
to deteriorate fast in light of Brazil’s weaker currency; its
commitment to a Atlas-like capex program and the limited scope
for fuel price increases,” BTG Pactual analyst Gustavo Gattass
said in a note to clients dated Aug 12.  Brazil’s real was the worst-performing emerging market
currency in the second quarter after losing 9.4 percent against
the  U.S. dollar .  It will be “challenging” for Petrobras to meet this
year’s target, Gattass said. Petrobras’s first-half output
fell 3 percent from the prior year to the lowest for the period
since 2009. That includes the June rebound.  Tight Market  Petrobras maintains its target of 2 million barrels a day on
average this year with strong growth in the fourth quarter as new
platforms increase production, the company said yesterday in an 
e-mailed reply to questions. Pre-salt fields will represent 42 
percent of output in 2017 and 50 percent in 2020, it said. The 
company is constantly looking to reduce decline rates of about 
10 percent a year at older fields in the Campos Basin, it said.  The company needs to deploy similar numbers of floating,
production storage and offloading units, known as FPSOs, in 2016
and 2017 to meet its plan to pump 4.2 million barrels of crude
daily in  Brazil  in 2020 at a time manufacturers are struggling
to complete global FPSO orders.  “There has been tightness in the market for FPSOs,” T.J.
Conway, a research and advisory manager at New York-based Energy
Intelligence Group, said by telephone from  Washington . “This is
a critical year to test Petrobras and the Brazilian sector in
general to deliver on these very difficult plans.”  Pre-Salt Gushers  Petrobras is looking to replicate the Lula success at other
fields trapped beneath a layer of salt as deep as two miles
below the Atlantic seabed, known as pre-salt deposits. Ultra-deep fields are in waters at least 300 meters (984 feet) deep.
Petrobras’s first FPSO at Lula reached capacity ahead of
schedule and with fewer wells than planned because individual
wells pumped more than expected.  Of the 35 production vessels Petrobras plans to install
through 2020, 22 are targeted for pre-salt fields near Lula in
the Santos Basin in an effort to maximize output at the
country’s most productive oil region.  Seven of Brazil’s 10 most productive wells in June were
located in the pre-salt, and three of the five biggest gushers
were at Lula, according to the country’s oil regulator.
Petrobras plans to pump half of its crude from the pre-salt in
2020, up from 7 percent last year, as it deploys the vessels
almost 300 kilometers (186 miles) off the coast of Rio and Sao
Paulo states.  Largest Discoveries  Petrobras is also drilling deeper at the Campos Basin to
tap pre-salt fields it didn’t know existed when it first
developed the region in the 1980s and 1990s. While the pre-salt
layer of Campos doesn’t hold as much oil as the deeper Santos
region, it is cheaper to extract the fuel because Petrobras can
use existing platforms and pipelines to get the fuel to
consumers.  Pre-salt oil was formed when the South American and African
continents began separating more the 100 million years ago. The
repeated flooding and evaporation of salt water in what is now
the South Atlantic created a layer of the mineral as thick as
2,000 meters that blankets the largest crude discoveries in the
Western Hemisphere since  Mexico  found Cantarell in 1976.  Petrobras’s advances in the pre-salt, where the company
conducted extensive production tests to confirm flow rates,
contrasts sharply with the production collapse at  OGX Petroleo &
Gas Participacoes (OGXP3) , the explorer controlled by entrepreneur  Eike
Batista  that started commercial output at its first field two
years after the discovery.  OGX Collapse  Rio-based OGX planned to produce at levels similar to pre-salt wells in an under-explored section of the Campos Basin
where Batista’s team found oil at more than 80 percent of the
wells drilled.  The exploration successes pushed the market value of OGX to
a high of 75 billion reais ($32.3 billion) in 2012. Then Batista
tried and failed to extract the oil. At the first project, flow
rates faded after a few months because the region’s geology
hindered the flow of oil, prompting OGX to announce Aug. 1 it
would abandon fields it previously declared commercial. The
company is now worth two billion reais in Sao Paulo trading. OGX
didn’t reply to an e-mail seeking comment.  At Petrobras, “their approach is very conservative with
very long-term tests; it ensures we’re not going to get bad
geologic surprises,” Cleveland Jones, a geology professor at
 Rio de Janeiro  State University, said in a phone interview.
“There’s not going to be an OGX type of thing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Millard in Rio de Janeiro at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  