-- Manufacturing in Philadelphia Regions Expands for Third Month
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2013-08-15T14:17:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/philadelphia-fed-factory-index-fell-to-9-3-in-august-from-19-8.html
Manufacturing in the Philadelphia
region expanded in August for the third straight month, the
latest sign of an improving outlook for the industry after a
slowdown earlier this year.  The  Federal Reserve  Bank of Philadelphia’s general economic
 index  fell to 9.3 this month from a reading of 19.8 in July that
was the highest since March 2011. Readings greater than zero
signal growth in the area, which covers eastern  Pennsylvania ,
southern New Jersey and  Delaware .  Factories are reaping the benefits of sustained gains in
construction, auto sales and consumer demand. Stronger household
balance sheets and improvements in overseas markets such as
 Europe  might further boost manufacturing, which accounts for
about 12 percent of the economy.  “The manufacturing sector is healthy, it’s chugging
along,” Josh Dennerlein, an economist with Bank of America
Corp. in  New York , said before the report. “It’s not super-strong growth, but it’s not contracting. It’s modest.”  The median forecast of 54 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg
called for a reading of 15. Estimates ranged from 7 to 23.  A similar report from the Federal Reserve bank of New York
today showed manufacturing in that region expanded in August for
a third month. The so-called  Empire State index  fell to 8.2 from
9.5 in July. Readings greater than zero signal expansion in New
York, northern  New Jersey  and southern  Connecticut .  Economic Data  Other reports today showed  jobless claims  last week dropped
to the lowest level in almost six years,  consumer confidence 
cooled last week from its highest level in more than five years,
consumer prices rose in July for a third month,  manufacturing
production  declined last month and  homebuilder sentiment  jumped
in August to the highest level since 2005.  Stocks dropped today as the reports fueled speculation the
Federal Reserve will trim monthly asset purchases this year. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index declined 1.5 percent to 1,660.37 at
10:17 a.m. in New York.  The Philadelphia Fed’s new orders measure declined to 5.3
from 10.2 July. Shipments contracted for the first time in three
months. A gauge of employment fell to 3.5 this month from a one-year high of 7.7 in July.  Philadelphia-area manufacturers were less optimistic about
the future, today’s report showed. The outlook index for six
months from now declined to 38.9 from a two-year high of 44.9
last month.  Economists monitor Philadelphia and  Empire State (EMPRGBCI)  factory
reports for clues about the Institute for Supply Management
national figures on manufacturing. The next ISM report is due
Sept. 3.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  