-- Philadelphia Plans to Sell $50 Million of Debt to Fund Schools
-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 2013-08-15T16:36:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/philadelphia-plans-to-sell-50-million-of-debt-to-fund-schools.html
Philadelphia will sell $50 million
of general-obligation bonds to fund schools one month after the
city cut the size of a debt sale because of rising rates.  Mayor Michael Nutter, a 56-year-old Democrat, declined at a
City Hall news conference to say when the borrowing would occur.
Superintendent William Hite had asked for a commitment of $50
million by tomorrow so he could open schools on time Sept. 9 for
136,000 students.  “This mechanism is, in fact, the best way to immediately
get the needed dollars that Dr. Hite has outlined to the school
district with virtually no financial impact on our city,”
Nutter said.  Philadelphia is among large urban districts facing
shortfalls as states have reduced spending on traditional public
schools and more students move to charters. Chicago officials in
May voted to consolidate 50 of its 681 schools, and  Detroit 
shuttered facilities as its population declined.  The term of Philadelphia’s borrowing would be four years,
Finance Director Rob Dubow said. The debt service would be paid
by sales-tax revenue, should the City Council extend an
increased rate. If the council fails to act, the cost would be
borne by the general fund and would create deficits, Dubow said.  Earlier this year, Philadelphia planned to sell $363.8
billion in general obligations for capital projects and to
retire debt. On July 24, it ultimately sold $208.4 million as
rates rose in the $3.7 trillion municipal market days after
Detroit filed a record bankruptcy.  “I don’t think we’ll see that kind of upheaval again,”
Dubow said.  Hite dismissed about 3,800 employees as he faced a $304
million shortfall in June. To open schools, he said he needed
$50 million to re-hire about 1,000 people.  Last month, Moody’s Investors Service cut the district’s
grade one step to Ba2, two levels below investment grade, saying
it “has extremely narrow operating fund balances.”  Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings rate Philadelphia A-,
seventh-highest. Moody’s ranks Philadelphia one step higher at
A2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  