-- PNC Appoints BlueMountain’s Andrew Feldstein to Board
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2013-08-16T04:00:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/pnc-appoints-bluemountain-s-andrew-feldstein-to-bank-s-board-1-.html
PNC Financial Services Group Inc.,
the largest shareholder of asset manager  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , named
BlueMountain Capital Management LLC co-founder Andrew Feldstein
to the bank’s board.  Feldstein, 48, helped start his $15.7 billion credit and
equity derivatives hedge-fund firm in 2003 after working for a
decade at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , Pittsburgh-based PNC said
yesterday in a statement. He was appointed to the risk and
compensation committees, according to a regulatory filing.  PNC Chief Executive Officer Bill Demchak, who succeeded Jim Rohr in April, worked with Feldstein at New York-based JPMorgan,
now the biggest  U.S. bank , where they helped build the company’s
derivatives business. Feldstein, a graduate of  Harvard Law
School , joined JPMorgan in 1992, overseeing structured credit,
high-yield sales, trading and research, and global credit
portfolio, PNC said in the statement.  Feldstein “brings a reputation for innovation and
additional risk-management expertise,” Rohr, now PNC’s
executive chairman, said in the statement.  Feldstein is known for betting against JPMorgan trader
Bruno Iksil, the Frenchman dubbed the “London Whale” because
of the size of his credit-derivatives portfolio. The move reaped
$300 million for New York-based BlueMountain, people familiar
with the matter said previously. JPMorgan lost more than $6.2
billion last year on its bet, and U.S. prosecutors this week
charged two former traders with wire fraud and conspiracy,
accusing them of trying to conceal the losses.  As of June 30, PNC held a  21 percent stake  in New York-based BlackRock, the world’s biggest money manager, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in  New York  at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net  