-- Premier League Manager Changes Make for Close Soccer Title Race
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-08-15T23:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/premier-league-manager-changes-make-for-close-soccer-title-race.html
Alex Ferguson ’s retirement,  Jose Mourinho ’s return and Manuel Pellegrini’s arrival make English
soccer’s Premier League title race one of the tightest to
predict in years.  Defending champion  Manchester United ,  Manchester City  and
Chelsea are the overwhelming favorites in the championship
chase, which begins tomorrow, even though each has a new
manager.  Several bookmakers on  oddschecker.com , including  William
Hill Plc (WMH) , rate Chelsea and City as 9-4 joint-favorites just
ahead of United, meaning a successful $4 bet returns $9 plus the
stake. Others have all three teams level at 9-4.  “It’s one of those ones where you actually don’t know
what’s going to happen,” William Hill spokesman Joe Crilly
said. “Anything can happen when you change the manager. It
doesn’t matter how good the team is, if you don’t get them
playing the right way they can fall out of contention.”  Arsenal is a distant fourth choice at odds of 10-1, ahead
of Liverpool and Tottenham Hotspur.  Manchester United won its record-extending 20th league
title in 2012-13 by 11 points over City in Ferguson’s final
season. The 71-year-old retired after 26 years at the club where
he won 38 trophies, including 13 league championships and two
European Cups.  The club replaced Ferguson with fellow Scot  David Moyes ,
who spent the past 11 seasons at Everton. Though Moyes, 50,
didn’t win any trophies with the Toffees, he regularly sealed
top-eight finishes with fewer resources available to him.  ‘Different Ballgame’  “Now it’s a different ballgame,” former United striker
Dwight Yorke, who works as a Premier League commentator for  Sky
Sports , said in an interview. “He’s replacing arguably the best
manager that ever lived in world football. So that’s going to be
something to watch with interest, to see how he copes with all
that.”  City, owned by Sheikh Mansour bin Zayed Al Nahyan of  Abu
Dhabi , changed managers and opened its wallet in an attempt to
reclaim the title it relinquished last season. Pellegrini, who’s
coached in his native Chile, Argentina and  Spain , replaced
 Roberto Mancini  and the team spent more than 90 million pounds
($140 million) in bringing in midfielder Fernandinho, winger
Jesus Navas and strikers Alvaro Negredo and Stevan Jovetic.  Chelsea signed players including forward Andre Schuerrle,
who cost a reported 18 million pounds, although its most
significant acquisition so far has been in the dugout, where
Mourinho returns for a second stint. He replaces interim manager
 Rafael Benitez , who led the Blues to the Europa League title
last season though struggled to win over the fans.  Mourinho Factor  Mourinho, 50, described himself as a “special one” when
he arrived at  Stamford  Bridge in 2004 and became a favorite with
supporters by capturing two league titles, one F.A. Cup and two
League Cups in three seasons.  “He knows the Premier League very well and will bring the
Mourinho factor,” Yorke said. “Everyone will be buzzing around
him at Chelsea, he can attract the best players because of what
he has done as a manager. They haven’t been in contention the
past couple of seasons and he will want to put that right.”  Chelsea hosts Hull in the opening round of games, with
United visiting Swansea and City at home to Newcastle.  The fight to avoid relegation may be as tight as the title
race, according to Crilly. Cardiff, Hull and Crystal Palace are
favored to go back down after winning promotion from the second-tier Championship last season, with Norwich and Stoke also in
danger.  Stars’ Futures  “Nobody knows what they are going to do,” Crilly said of
the newcomers in a telephone interview. “You can argue it’s
going to be as close at the bottom this year as at the top
because there are plenty of teams who go could down.”  The futures of three of the league’s biggest stars remain
unsettled heading to the opening weekend.  Tottenham winger Gareth Bale, voted player of the year last
season by both his peers and the media, has been linked with a
possible 100 million-euro ($133 million) world-record transfer
to Real  Madrid , while Liverpool has rejected two offers from
Arsenal for striker  Luis Suarez . Chelsea has twice been turned
down in bidding for Manchester United forward  Wayne Rooney . So
far, United hasn’t made any major signings in the trade period,
which ends Sept. 2.  Goal-Line Technology  The Premier League will also debut goal-line technology
this season to help officials. The goal decision system, as the
league calls it, uses 14 cameras and sends a signal within a
second to the referee’s watch and earpiece when the ball has
crossed the line.  It was used at last weekend’s Community Shield match and
will be in operation at all 20 stadiums.  “The only fundamental reason people play football is to
get the ball into the net and score a goal,” Premier League
Chief Executive  Richard Scudamore  said at a demonstration of the
system at Arsenal’s Emirates Stadium on Aug. 8. “This
technology is designed for one purpose, to say if the ball went
over the line or not. It’s a very discrete technology for a very
specific thing. This is 100 percent accurate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  