-- Putin Critic’s Support Surges on Moscow Mayor Corruption Charges
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   A n t o n   D o r o s h e v
-- 2013-08-15T15:23:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/putin-critic-s-support-surges-on-moscow-mayor-corruption-charges.html
Support for Alexey Navalny, a top
critic of President  Vladimir Putin  running for Moscow mayor, has
jumped as he’s published corruption allegations against the
incumbent, a poll showed.  Navalny would get the backing of 20 percent of Muscovites
at next month’s election, up from 15 percent a week earlier,
according to the survey by Moscow-based Synovate Comcon released
today. Mayor  Sergei Sobyanin  had support of 63.5 percent, down
from 75 percent. The Aug. 8-14 poll of 1,200 decided voters had
a margin of error of 2.5 percentage points.  Two daughters of Sobyanin own apartments worth $3.5 million
and $5 million respectively, Navalny, who was sentenced to
prison last month, alleged in blog postings on Aug. 9 and 13.  One of the daughters, Anna, lives in  St. Petersburg  with
her husband and the apartment has nothing to do with her father,
said Gulnara Penkova, a spokeswoman for Sobyanin. Sobyanin said
the property in the Russian capital held by his daughter Olga
was declared openly seven years ago.  Navalny, a lawyer and anti-corruption activist who helped
organize the biggest protests against Putin’s 13-year rule in
2011 and last year, vowed to contest the next presidential
election in 2018 and put Putin and his billionaire allies in
jail if he won. His conviction for embezzlement, if upheld,
would preclude him from ever holding public office.  Navalny has 13 percent backing to Sobyanin’s 67 percent,
according to an opinion poll published yesterday by the All-Russian Center for the Study of  Public Opinion , or VTsIOM. The
survey had a margin of error of 3.9 percentage points.  The Prosecutor General’s Office said this week that it had
uncovered illegal foreign financing for Navalny’s campaign for
Moscow mayor in the Sept. 8 ballot. Navalny condemned what he
termed pressure on his campaign, denying getting foreign funds.  On July 18, Navalny received a five-year prison sentence
for embezzling cash from a state timber company. He was later
released for the duration of his appeals process after thousands
of backers protested his conviction in central Moscow and other
major cities.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
Anton Doroshev in Moscow at 
 adoroshev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  