-- U.S. Urged Bailout Funds to Delphi Pensions: Watchdog
-- B y   K a s i a   K l i m a s i n s k a   a n d   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2013-08-15T20:55:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/treasury-urged-bailout-funds-to-delphi-pensions-watchdog-says.html
The U.S. government urged  General
Motors (GM)  Co. to improve pensions of some Delphi Automotive Plc
union retirees while cutting those of salaried workers to help
ensure a speedy emergence from a GM bankruptcy, the watchdog of
the Troubled Asset Relief Program said.  As part of the bailout of GM and Chrysler Group LLC in
2009, the Treasury Department used some money for a so-called
top-off of pensions for hourly employees at auto-parts supplier
Delphi, which GM spun off in 1999. Salaried Delphi retirees had
their pensions cut as part of the agreement.  Demands from the  United Auto Workers  representing the
retirees threatened to stall GM’s bankruptcy, according to a
 report  today from the TARP’s special inspector general. As a
result, government officials led by  Steven Rattner  pressed the
Detroit-based automaker to reach an agreement on the pension
liabilities before the bankruptcy, the report said.  The Treasury’s auto team “made it clear to GM that they
wanted an agreement with the UAW prior to bankruptcy and the
auto team actively negotiated and made the overall deal,”
according to the report. “Treasury’s auto team and GM did not
agree to top up the pensions of other former GM employees at
Delphi, which did not have active employees at GM, and therefore
had no leverage to hold up GM’s bankruptcy.”  The TARP special inspector general said in the report that
it made no recommendation after a review of the matter.  Delphi shares, which have risen about 42 percent this year,
fell 2.4 percent today to $54.20.  Restructuring Effort  GM was facing default when the government, concerned about
the effects on the automaker’s supply chain and the  U.S.
economy , agreed to step in in late 2008. Previous restructuring
efforts to address labor costs and declining U.S. market share
had fallen short when auto sales plummeted to a 16-year low.  In exchange for about $50 billion in investments, the
Treasury became the majority owner with a 61 percent stake in
the GM that emerged from bankruptcy in July 2009, according to
the report.  As of June 5, the government’s  share  was 13.7 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The department said it had  recovered  about $35 billion of
its GM investment as of July 31.  Auto Aid  President  George W. Bush  agreed to the first installment of
U.S. aid. Obama accelerated the process with Rattner, co-founder
of the private-equity firm Quadrangle Group LLC, and  Ron Bloom ,
a former United Steelworkers union adviser and  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)  vice
president.  GM cut executive pay and eliminated 47,000 jobs in 2009,
dropping U.S. brands and closing plants in return for $13.4
billion in Treasury loans.  The Delphi pension decision was also made to preserve the
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corp., the government agency that takes
over payments to retirees of bankrupt companies. A Government
Accountability Office report in 2010 said that losses to GM and
Chrysler pension plans could have reached $14.5 billion if the
companies didn’t return to profitability.  The union pension issue was among others in which the
Treasury exerted its influence over GM during the company’s
restructuring, today’s report showed.  Lender’s ‘Leverage’  Members of the Treasury’s auto team that President  Barack Obama  designated to rescue GM “used their leverage as GM’s
largest lender to influence and set the parameters for GM to
make decisions in areas that did not require Treasury consent,”
the TARP inspector general wrote in today’s report.  In a letter accompanying the report, the Treasury said the
review makes clear the decision to supplement Delphi pensions
“was driven by sound commercial reasons.” Still, the Treasury
pointed to “a number of judgments and characterizations” it
said are not supported by facts, according to the letter from
Timothy Massad, the Treasury’s assistant secretary for financial
stability.  “The actions taken brought needed stability to the  auto
industry  and helped save more than a million American jobs,”
Massad wrote.  Delphi (DLPH) , based in Troy,  Michigan , held an initial public
offering in November 2011 after restructuring in  bankruptcy
court . The company, once the largest U.S. auto-parts supplier,
exited bankruptcy in October 2009.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kasia Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  