-- Record Rapeseed Crop Extends Oilseed Glut as Paris Price Slides
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2013-08-15T06:24:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/record-rapeseed-crop-extends-oilseed-glut-as-paris-price-slides.html
Record rapeseed harvests from  Europe 
to  Canada  are set to compound a global glut of vegetable oil,
sending prices in Paris to the lowest in more than three years
as stockpiles climb to an all-time high.  Production of rapeseed, the most common crop used in
biodiesel in the European Union, may jump to a record 66.4
million metric tons, U.S. Department of Agriculture data show.
In the EU, the top producer and consumer, farmers are harvesting
a crop that’s more than a million tons larger than last year’s
as acreage expanded in Germany and yields rose in Hungary and
 Poland , Hamburg-based researcher Oil World projects.  Production of oilseeds is rebounding globally after drought
last year damaged crops from U.S. soybeans to eastern European
sunflowers. Prices on NYSE Liffe in Paris slid 30 percent from
an all-time high in July 2012, amid rallies that drove soybeans
and corn to records on the  Chicago  Board of Trade. Producers
responded by expanding output of everything from  palm oil  to
soybeans, sending vegetable oil stocks to a record for a sixth
consecutive year, the USDA estimates.  “We’ve got a massive world oilseed crop, so that’s weighed
heavily on rapeseed and oilseed prices in general,” said Bryan
Willey, a grains and oilseeds analyst at Rabobank International
in Utrecht,  Netherlands . “It was extremely tight for a lot of
oilseeds last year, and that threw everything kind of askew. Now
the market is finally starting to realize that we’re going to
have big crops.”  Rapeseed futures are down 20 percent this year on NYSE
Liffe in Paris, outpacing the 12 percent decline in the most-active soybean contract in Chicago. The price fell to 353 euros
($469) a ton on July 31, the lowest since August 2010. The
decline may extend to 300 euros a ton if oilseed crops maturing
in North America escape damage from cold weather in the next few
months, said Owen Cligg, the trading manager at United Oilseeds,
a Devizes, England-based cooperative.  French Fries  Oil produced from crushing rapeseed is used to make
everything from McDonald’s Corp.  fries  to  Archer-Daniels-Midland
Co. (ADM)   biofuel . About 67 percent of the EU’s biodiesel is made from
rapeseed, according to Fedoil, a Brussels-based industry group
that represents oilseed companies including crushers and
refiners. Rapeseed accounts for about 20 percent of the bloc’s
vegetable oil use in food, USDA’s Foreign Agricultural Service
estimates.  Global Rapeseed  Stockpiles of rapeseed oil globally will rise 18 percent to
an all-time high of 3.12 million tons in 2013-14, helping send
combined inventories of nine major vegetable oils to a record
21.4 million tons, the USDA forecasts. Rapeseed oil is the third
most-commonly produced vegetable oil, after palm and soybean.  The EU’s harvest may be a three-year high of 20.5 million
tons, 5.7 percent more than a year earlier, Oil World said in
its most recent monthly report July 16.  Germany  will overtake
 France  as the bloc’s top producer this year, with Alfred C.
Toepfer International, a Hamburg-based trader, expecting the
country’s harvest to jump 25 percent from a year earlier to 6.04
million tons.  Rapeseed supplies also will be bolstered by rising output
in Ukraine, Russia and Canada, the world’s top exporter and the
main grower of the canola variety. The USDA pegs Canada’s
harvest at a record 15.3 million tons, up 15 percent from a year
earlier, while Agriculture and Agri-Food Canada, the country’s
agriculture ministry, estimates output at 14.6 million tons,
below the peak of 14.608 million tons produced in 2011-12.  Canada Risks  Slow plant development in Canada still may threaten the
country’s output by leaving crops at risk of damage from frost,
Oil World said Aug. 6. U.S. soybean crop maturity also has been
slower than normal this year amid cool, wet weather. In  Iowa ,
historically the biggest producing state, temperatures dropped
to freezing levels as early as Sept. 22 in 1995 in  Des Moines ,
National Weather Service records show. U.S. farmers harvest the
oilseed from September through November.  “Cooler weather in the U.S. and Canada could be a bit of a
worry because of slow development,” said United Oilseeds’
Cligg, whose company handles 20 percent of the U.K.’s rapeseed
crop. “Although the pricing trend is down, it’s not necessarily
plain sailing until they get the crop in the barn.”  The USDA lowered its outlook for the domestic soybean
harvest on Aug. 12 to 3.255 billion bushels, still 8 percent
higher than the previous season. The agency pegs global
production of palm oil at an all-time high of 58.09 million
tons. Oil World raised its forecast for world sunflower seed
production on Aug. 13 to 40.2 million tons, also a record.  “At the end of all this there’s just going to be a massive
oilseed crop globally,” Rabobank’s Willey said. “I don’t see
as much upside risk in the market as I do downside.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in London at   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  