-- Renren Leads Retreat as Vipshop Tumbles: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-08-15T21:27:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/renren-leads-retreat-as-vipshop-tumbles-china-overnight.html
Chinese equities fell for a second
day in  New York , as companies from  Renren Inc. (RENN)  to  Elong Inc. (LONG) 
reported second-quarter losses.  The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Chinese stocks in the U.S. slipped 1.2 percent to 96.09
yesterday, the biggest retreat in a week. Social media company
Renren sank the most in 14 months and online travel agency Elong
declined the most in three months.  E-Commerce China Dangdang
Inc. (DANG)  capped a 22 percent slump in two days, and online retailer
 Vipshop Holdings Ltd. (VIPS)  tumbled 14 percent after third-quarter
guidance fell short of most analysts’ estimates.  Three of the seven companies on the China-US gauge that
 reported  quarterly results since the market close Aug. 14 posted
net losses, with Elong announcing the  biggest shortfall  since
its initial public offering in 2004. Jefferies Group LLC reduced
its rating on Renren to the equivalent of sell after reporting a
net loss for a  sixth quarter . The declines in the stocks trimmed
rallies of as much as 202 percent in Chinese Internet equities
this year.  “Investors have been too optimistic about the Internet
sector and have driven up some company stocks. They have to be
selective,” Michael Ding, lead manager of the  China Region Fund (USCOX) 
at U.S. Global Investors Inc. that oversees $2.2 billion  said
by phone from  San Antonio ,  Texas . “Intense competition in the
e-commerce sector makes it hard for some companies to make a
profit even if their revenues are still growing.”  ETF Slips  The iShares  China  Large-Cap  ETF (FXI) , the largest Chinese
 exchange-traded fund  in the U.S., slid 0.7 percent to $36.15,
declining the first time in six days. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index lost 1.4 percent, the most since June, as forecasts from
Cisco Systems Inc. and Wal-Mart Stores Inc. disappointed while
improving economic data pushed bond yields higher amid concern
the  Federal Reserve  will reduce stimulus.  Renren, owner of a real-name social networking website,
sank 11 percent to $3.72, sliding the most since May 2012.
Jefferies Group Inc. analyst Cynthia Meng cut the rating on
Renren to underperform, equivalent to sell, from hold yesterday.  The Beijing-based company estimated third-quarter sales to
be as much as $49 million, missing analysts’ average projection
of $62.1 million. Its posted a net loss of $9.3 million in
April-June, from a shortfall of $24.9 million a year earlier.
Revenue for the quarter rose 11 percent to $49.6 million.  Elong, a web-based travel agency whose biggest shareholder
is  Expedia Inc. (EXPE) , slipped 4.5 percent to $17.38 in New York, the
steepest retreat since May. Trading volume was four times the
three-month average, data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Dangdang’s Loss  Beijing-based Elong said net loss widened to 36 cents for
each of its American depositary receipts from an 8-cent loss a
year earlier.  Dangdang, China’s biggest online book retailer, tumbled 12
percent to $9.08, the lowest close in two weeks.  The company said in a statement yesterday that net loss was
$10.4 million in the three months through June, compared with a
mean estimate for a loss of $13.5 million of five analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. Dangdang forecast sales of 1.58 billion
 yuan  ($260 million) for the third quarter, in line with what
analysts had projected on average.  Vipshop, which sells fashion goods at deep discounts,
tumbled to $39.56, the biggest slump since March 2012, paring
its gain this year to 122 percent.  Guangzhou-based Vipshop said third-quarter sales  may rise 
as much as 137 percent from a year earlier to $370 million,
compared with a mean estimate of $369.3 million of four analysts
compiled by Bloomberg.  “The company’s growth will begin to trend down from
triple-digits to double-digits, which the market might not be
prepared for,” Hong Kong-based analysts led by Muzhi Li at
Citigroup Inc. wrote in a note yesterday.  Suntech Slides  Suntech Power Holdings Co. (STP) , a solar-panel maker whose China
unit was forced into bankruptcy in March, plunged 14 percent to
$1.08 in New York, sinking the most since May 22. The total debt
of Suntech’s China unit amounts to 6.7 billion yuan, the
official Xinhua News Agency reported Aug. 14, citing Yang
Erguan, a representative at the firm’s insolvency and
restructuring administrator group.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index climbed 0.2 percent
to a two-month high of 10,206.74. The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP) 
slid 0.9 percent to 2,181.88, falling the most in two weeks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  