-- Tropical Depression Five Passes South of Cape Verde Islands
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2013-08-15T06:03:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/tropical-depression-five-passes-south-of-cape-verde-islands.html
A tropical depression that formed in
the Atlantic passed south of the Cape Verde Islands, according
to the U.S.  National Hurricane Center  in Miami.  A tropical storm warning has been issued for the southern
islands in the chain as the depression is expected to strengthen
to a tropical storm later today, the center said. It currently
has top winds of 35 miles per hour, under the 39 mph threshold
needed to be named and classified a tropical storm. It is about
55 miles south-southeast of the islands, moving west-northwest
at 14 mph.  “Some strengthening is forecast during the next 48
hours,” the center said in an advisory at 2 a.m. local time.  If named, it would likely become Tropical Storm Erin, the
fifth such system to grow in the Atlantic this season, which
runs from June 1 to Nov. 30.  The storms are followed closely by energy companies and
commodities traders because they can disrupt natural gas and oil
production and processing and destroy crops.  The  Gulf of Mexico  is home to about 6 percent of U.S.
natural gas output, 23 percent of oil production and more than
45 percent of petroleum refining capacity, according to the U.S.
Energy Department. The Bay of Campeche, at the southern end of
the Gulf, is where  Petroleos Mexicanos ,  Mexico ’s state-owned oil
company, has most of its output. Florida is the second-largest
producer of oranges after  Brazil .  The storm, regardless of its strength, may drop 2 to 4
inches (5 to 10 centimeters) of rain across the southern Cape
Verde islands.  In addition to the depression, the hurricane center is also
tracking an area of disturbed weather off the coast of Mexico’s
Yucatan Peninsula that has a 70 percent chance of developing
into a storm in the next two days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  