-- Tropical Storm Erin Forms as Caribbean System Loses Some Steam
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2013-08-15T12:27:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/tropical-storm-erin-forms-as-caribbean-system-loses-some-steam.html
Tropical Storm Erin formed in the
Atlantic southwest of the Cape Verde Islands while a disturbance
in the Caribbean became less organized, the  U.S. National
Hurricane Center  said.  Erin, which grew from a tropical depression today, has
maximum sustained winds of 40 miles (64 kilometers) per hour and
was 65 miles south-southwest of the island of Brava in the Cape
Verde chain. It’s moving west-northwest at 16 mph.  “Tropical storm conditions are expected over the southern
Cape Verde Islands during the next few hours,” the center said
in  an advisory  at 8 a.m.  New York  time.  The center is also tracking an area of disturbed weather
off the coast of  Mexico ’s Yucatan Peninsula that has a  50
percent chance  of developing into a storm in the next two days,
down from 70 percent earlier.  Atlantic storms are followed closely by energy companies
and commodities traders because they can disrupt natural gas and
oil production and processing and destroy crops.  The  Gulf of Mexico  is home to about 6 percent of U.S.
natural gas output, 23 percent of oil production and more than
45 percent of petroleum refining capacity, according to the U.S.
Energy Department.  The Bay of Campeche, at the southern end of the Gulf, is
where  Petroleos Mexicanos , Mexico’s state-owned oil company, has
most of its output. Florida is the second-largest producer of
oranges after  Brazil .  Fifth Storm  Erin is the fifth storm of the Atlantic season, which runs
from June 1 to Nov. 30. It is expected to strengthen slightly in
the next two days before it encounters dry air farther to the
west in the Atlantic, according to the center. There is a chance
it will fall apart in about five days, still east of the Lesser
Antilles  Storm warnings were posted for the islands of Maio,
Santiago, Fogo and Brava in the Cape Verde group, according to
the center. Two to 4 inches (5 to 10 centimeters) of rain may
fall, the advisory said.  The Caribbean system is weakening as it approaches the
Yucatan Peninsula, but it may strengthen once it reaches the
southern Gulf of Mexico, said  Matt Rogers , president of
Commodity Weather Group LLC in Bethesda,  Maryland .  “The key time to track it starts later tomorrow into this
weekend, when it is expected to be in the Gulf,” Rogers said in
a note to clients.  Some computer models show the system gaining enough
strength to become a tropical storm before going ashore anywhere
from Mexico to  Louisiana , Rogers said. Two of the most reliable
models, however, predict it won’t develop.  Enbridge Manta Ray evacuated non-essential personnel from
two platforms off the coast of Louisiana yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  