-- Tropical Depression May Form in Caribbean on Path Toward Yucatan
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2013-08-15T02:53:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/tropical-depression-may-form-in-caribbean-on-path-toward-yucatan.html
An area of thunderstorms and clouds
in the  Caribbean Sea  may form into a tropical depression before
going ashore on  Mexico ’s Yucatan Peninsula today, the U.S.
National Hurricane Center said.  The weather system has a 70 percent chance of becoming a
depression sometime in the next two days and an 80 percent
chance within the next five days, according to a hurricane
center advisory issued before 8 p.m. New York time yesterday. A
depression is the weakest form of tropical system that also
includes hurricanes.  “Regardless of whether or not a tropical cyclone forms,
heavy rains and gusty winds are forecast to spread over the
Yucatan Peninsula and Belize during the next day or two,” the
Miami-based  center  said in the advisory.  After it crosses the Yucatan, the system will probably move
across the  Gulf of Mexico  and go ashore somewhere between
Louisiana and the  Florida Panhandle , according to AccuWeather
Inc. in  State College , Pennsylvania. The company said it’s
“still questionable” if there will be time for development.  The storms are followed closely by energy companies and
commodities traders because they can disrupt natural gas and oil
production and processing and destroy crops. The threat prompted
Enbridge Manta Ray to evacuate non-essential personnel from two
platforms off the coast of Louisiana yesterday.  The Gulf of Mexico is home to about 6 percent of U.S.
natural gas output, 23 percent of oil production and more than
45 percent of petroleum refining capacity, according to the
Energy Department. The Bay of Campeche, at the southern end of
the Gulf, is where  Petroleos Mexicanos , Mexico’s state-owned oil
company, has most of its production.  Florida is the second-largest producer of oranges after
Brazil.  The hurricane center is also tracking a budding storm near
Cape Verde off the coast of  Africa . That system had an 80
percent chance of becoming a tropical system in the next two
days, according to the advisory issued yesterday.  With assistance from Christine Buurma in New York. Editors:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  