-- Rossi, MRV Gain as Earnings Exceeded Estimates: Sao Paulo Mover
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-08-15T17:43:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/rossi-mrv-gain-as-earnings-exceeded-estimates-sao-paulo-mover.html
Rossi Residencial SA (RSID3)  and  MRV
Engenharia e Participacoes SA (MRVE3)  rallied after the Brazilian
homebuilders reported quarterly earnings that exceeded analysts’
estimates for the first time since 2011.  Rossi gained 4.9 percent to 3.01 reais at 2:20 p.m. in Sao
Paulo, poised for the highest closing level in seven weeks. MRV
advanced 5.6 percent to 7.73 reais. It was the best performer on
the BM&FBovespa Real Estate Index, which sank 1.3 percent.  Rossi posted second-quarter adjusted net income of 46.4
million reais ($19.8 million), according to a regulatory filing
yesterday. That’s almost double the average estimate of eight
analysts for net income of 23.9 million reais, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. MRV’s  profit  of 141 million reais beat
the average estimate of 93.5 million for the quarter, the data
show.  “Rossi’s second-quarter results support our buy rating on
the stock, based on expectations of cash flow and earnings
improvement, which could be substantial,” Marcello Milman and
Gustavo Cambauva, analysts at Grupo BTG Pactual, wrote in a note
to clients today.  While Rossi and other Brazilian builders are backpedaling
from lower-income homes after overestimating the profitability
of subsidized projects aimed at families earning less than 5,000
reais a month, MRV said it has benefited from selling about 90
percent of its homes through the government program, called “My
House, My Life.”  “We have almost no competition in our segment in the
cities we are in,” the company said in its second-quarter
earnings statement. “We have consolidated our position as the
biggest national player of the My House, My Life program.”  Belo Horizonte, Brazil-based MRV showed “encouraging cash
generation,” Citigroup Inc. analysts Dan McGoey and Paola Mello
wrote in a note to clients.  Rossi has lost 34 percent this year while MRV dropped 36
percent. The benchmark Ibovespa has slipped 17 percent in 2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  