-- Rudd Plans Lower Tax Rate to Boost Northern Australia Economy
-- B y   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n   a n d   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2013-08-15T03:10:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/rudd-plans-lower-tax-rate-to-boost-northern-australia-economy.html
Prime Minister  Kevin Rudd , seeking
re-election in a Sept. 7 ballot, said his Labor government would
lower company tax rates in northern  Australia  within five years
under a plan to boost the region’s economy.  Labor would also work with the Northern Territory
government to expand the Ord Irrigation Scheme, boosting output
in the region by about A$150 million ($138 million) a year
though increased agricultural production, including sugar, Rudd
told reporters in Darwin today.  “This is a key part of Labor’s plan to keep Australia’s
economy strong by creating new jobs for the future as the
decade-long China resources boom is coming to an end,” Rudd
said in an e-mailed statement.  Rudd and opposition leader  Tony Abbott  have placed
management of the nation’s $1.5 trillion economy at the
centerpiece of their election campaigns as growth slows,
unemployment rises and mining investment wanes. Abbott, whose
Liberal-National coalition is ahead in opinion polls, has also
pledged to open the  nation’s remote northern regions to
agriculture, while mining billionaire  Gina Rinehart  has
championed a special economic zone in the area.  Abbott criticized a lack of detail in the plan and said
Labor was only just waking up to the region’s potential after
six years in office.  “It is just another thought bubble,” Abbott told
reporters. “He doesn’t have a plan to actually grow our
economy.”  Foreign Investment  Labor’s proposal will seek to attract foreign investment by
streamlining and simplifying regulation and reducing the company
tax rate for Northern Territory-based businesses within five
years, Rudd said.  The prime minister told reporters his personal objective
was for a company tax rate one-third lower than the rest of the
country.  The Ord Irrigation Scheme would be expanded to 43,000
hectares from its current 29,000 hectares.  Australia is seeking to increase the area available for
farming as rising incomes and population growth in  Asia  boosts
demand for food. That’s prompted companies including Glencore
Xstrata Plc and  Archer-Daniels-Midland Co. (ADM)  to target
agricultural assets as they seek a foothold in the world’s
third-biggest exporter of sugar and wheat.  The value of Australia’s farm exports, including crops and
livestock, may total A$35.8 billion in the year ending June 30,
according to the Australian Bureau of Agricultural and Resource
Economics and Sciences.  “The idea of a special economic zone for northern
Australia  has been around for decades and Abbott himself has
toyed with it,” said Stephen Stockwell, a political analyst and
Griffith University professor of journalism and communications
in  Brisbane . “The move is trying to send a message that Rudd
has a big vision for Australia.’”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phoebe Sedgman in Melbourne at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net ;
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net  