-- RWE Falls on Concern Dividends May Drop by Half: Frankfurt Mover
-- B y   T i n o   A n d r e s e n
-- 2013-08-15T14:45:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/rwe-falls-on-concern-dividends-may-drop-by-half-frankfurt-mover.html
RWE AG (RWE) ,  Germany ’s second-largest
utility, posted the biggest decline on the country’s DAX index
for a second day on speculation dividends may be cut by half.  RWE dropped as much as 4.1 percent to 20.475 euros, the
lowest price in a decade, and traded at 20.545 euros as of 4:41
p.m. in  Frankfurt . The stock slumped 4.5 percent yesterday.  “I expect that the company will halve its dividend to 1
euro for 2014 and 2015,” said Ingo Becker, an analyst at Kepler
Cheuvreux. “Another alternative would be to pay no dividend.”  Pressure is mounting on Essen-based RWE to reduce the
payout after earnings fell the past three years. The economic
slowdown in  Europe  has eroded power demand, while the growth of
renewable energy has cut profit margins for gas- and coal-fired
plants. RWE, like larger German competitor EON SE, is cutting
costs and selling assets, including its Dea oil and gas unit.  The disposal of Dea, which operates in  Egypt , is
“extremely difficult” in the current political environment,
Becker said by phone from Frankfurt, referring to the deepening
conflict in the North African nation. Becker today cut his price
estimate on RWE to 18 euros from 24 euros and confirmed his
 reduce  recommendation.  RWE yesterday reported first-half profit that missed
analyst estimates. While the impact of lower prices can be
tempered by selling electricity forward, such price advantages
will gradually decrease in the next two to three years,
according to Chief Financial Officer Bernhard Guenther.  “The crisis will then hit us with full force,” Guenther
said yesterday on a conference call. The CFO had “no news” on
the dividend, he said.  Bloomberg analysts are  forecasting  that RWE’s 2-euro
dividend will be maintained on 2013 profit, to be paid in 2014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tino Andresen in Dusseldorf at 
 tandresen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  