-- SAC Shrinks U.S. Stock Holdings by $2 Billion Amid Probe
-- B y   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 2013-08-15T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/sac-shrinks-u-s-stock-holdings-by-2-billion-amid-probe.html
Billionaire  Steven A. Cohen ’s SAC
Capital Advisors LP, the hedge-fund firm facing federal insider-trading charges and client defections, cut its U.S. stock-listed
holdings by about $2 billion in the second quarter.  SAC held $16.2 billion of U.S.-listed stocks as of June 30,
according to a filing yesterday with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission. The biggest decreases in its holdings were
in  EQT Corp. (EQT) , which fell in value by $213.8 million as SAC sold
3.32 million shares, and  Sirius XM Radio Inc. (SIRI) , which shrank by
$163.7 million as the firm sold 53.2 million shares.  SAC, based in Stamford, Connecticut, was accused by the
U.S. government in a July 25 indictment of engaging in an
unprecedented  insider-trading  scheme lasting more than a decade.
In an administrative action last month, regulators said Cohen
failed to supervise two employees who have been charged with
insider trading.  Cohen, 57, has vowed to keep SAC open for business as
investors pulled billions of dollars from its funds this year.
Remaining clients have until tomorrow to ask to redeem their
money for the third quarter. Executives at SAC, which oversaw
about $14 billion in net assets at the start of July, expect to
end the year with about $9 billion, a person with knowledge of
the matter said earlier this week.  SAC was granted approval by a judge last week to continue
operating until the insider-trading cases are resolved. The
approved plan requires that SAC maintain at least 85 percent of
the “aggregate value” of assets owned by the firm’s “entity
defendants” as of July 1, and in exchange, allows for the fund
to continue its lawful operations. If the assets fall below the
specified level in a given month, the fund is required to
“replenish” the monies, according to the Aug. 9 order.  Michael Kors  SAC also sold shares of luxury-goods company  Michael Kors
Holdings Ltd. (KORS) , planemaker Boeing Co. and coffee-shop operator
 Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  in the second quarter.  SAC’s biggest U.S. stock holding at the end of the last
quarter was a 1.6 percent stake in memory chipmaker  Micron
Technology Inc. (MU) , valued at $232.7 million, followed by a 1.5
percent stake in  Zoetis Inc. (ZTS) , a maker of animal medicines. That
stake was valued at $232 million.  Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for SAC at Sard Verbinnen
& Co., declined to comment on the filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  