-- SAC's U.S. Stock Holdings Shrank by $2 Billion Amid Probe
-- B y   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 2013-08-15T00:10:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/sac-s-u-s-stock-holdings-shrank-by-2-billion-amid-probe.html
Steven A. Cohen ’s SAC Capital
Advisors LP, the hedge-fund firm that’s facing federal insider-trading charges, cut its U.S. stock-listed holdings by about $2
billion in the second quarter as clients pulled money.  SAC held $16.2 billion worth of U.S. listed stocks as of
June 30, according to a filing today with the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission. The biggest declines in its holdings
were in  EQT Corp. (EQT) , which fell in value by $213.8 million as SAC
sold 3.32 million shares, and  Sirius XM Radio Inc. (SIRI) , which shrank
by $163.7 million as the firm sold 53.2 million shares.  SAC, based in Stamford, Connecticut, was accused by the
U.S. government in a July 25 indictment of engaging in an
unprecedented  insider-trading  scheme lasting more than a decade.
Regulators last month in an administrative action said Cohen
failed to supervise two employees who have been charged with
insider trading.  Billionaire Cohen has vowed to keep SAC open for business
as investors pulled billions of dollars from its funds this
year. Remaining clients have until Aug. 16 to ask to redeem
their capital for the third quarter. Executives at SAC, which
oversaw about $14 billion in net assets at the start of July,
expect to end the year with about $9 billion, a person with
knowledge of the matter said earlier this week.  SAC’s biggest U.S. stock holding at the end of last quarter
was a 1.6 percent stake in memory-chip maker  Micron Technology
Inc. (MU) , valued at $232.7 million, followed by a 1.5 percent stake
in  Zoetis Inc. (ZTS) , a company that makes animal health medicines.
That stake was valued at $232 million.  Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for SAC at Sard Verbinnen
& Co., declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  