-- Same-Sex Marriage Ruling in New Jersey Deferred by Judge
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2013-08-15T18:44:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/same-sex-marriage-ruling-in-new-jersey-deferred-by-judge.html
A  New Jersey  judge put off deciding
whether to allow same-sex couples to marry or conclude the
state’s civil-union law goes far enough to protect the legal
rights of gay couples, as Governor Chris Christie claims.  Superior Court Judge Mary Jacobson heard arguments in
Trenton today and said she probably won’t rule until September
in light of a U.S. Supreme Court decision on June 26 that struck
down a federal law denying benefits to same-sex married couples.  “I don’t think you could expect a decision before
September at the earliest,” Jacobson said to a courtroom with
dozens of supporters of same-sex marriage. “It’s a very
difficult issue.”  The challenge by Garden State Equality and  Lambda Legal ,
which represents supporters of gay marriage, seeks to expand
same-sex marriage. Thirteen states and the  District of Columbia 
now allow the practice. Supporters say the Supreme Court ruling
striking down the 1996 Defense of Marriage Act gives their quest
a new urgency.  Christie, a Republican frequently mentioned as a possible
presidential candidate in 2016, says marriage should be between
a man and a woman. Last year, he vetoed a same-sex marriage
bill, and state Democratic lawmakers are trying to override that
action.  ‘Devastating’ Consequences  In court today, Lambda Legal’s lawyer, Lawrence Lustberg,
argued that not allowing same-sex couples to marry will have
“devastating” consequences because the federal government
denies a wide array of benefits to couples who are not married.
He said the question is a matter of equal protection under the
law and has moral overtones.  Lustberg cited  Martin Luther King Jr .’s “I Have a Dream”
speech in urging the judge to act now, and not conclude the time
isn’t right, as Jacobson suggested and a lawyer for acting
Attorney General John J. Hoffman argued.  “Today, we have a dream, too,” Lustberg said. “That
dream is that the content of one’s character, and not their
sexual orientation, will determine how they’re treated by
society.”  Lustberg repeatedly cited a New Jersey Supreme Court ruling
in 2006 that said same-sex couples should have the same rights
and benefits as different-sex couples. It gave the Legislature
180 days to act. In response, lawmakers passed the civil-union
law in December 2006.  ‘Democratic Process’  Jacobson asked why the matter shouldn’t be resolved “by
the political process, by the democratic process,” rather than
by a judge.  “We know that rights and benefits are being distributed
unequally and will continue to be distributed unequally,”
Lustberg said. “I wish the democratic process would do what’s
right.” At times, he said, “judges have to step in.”  Assistant Attorney General Kevin Jespersen argued that
same-sex couples and different-sex couples are treated the same
under New Jersey law, and state courts have no recourse if the
federal government treats them differently.  “Does the court have the power to order the state to
remedy something that arises from federal conduct?” Jespersen
asked. “We submit the answer is no.”  Supreme Court  Jespersen also said the impact of the U.S.  Supreme Court 
ruling is still unsettled, and urged Jacobson to wait, not act.  “We’d be stepping into a very fast-flowing stream where
the footing’s very uncertain,” he said.  Lustberg countered that the state, not the federal
government, is the prime actor.  “The consequences of the state action is visited upon my
clients at a federal level,” he said.  Christie has said he supports a referendum in November, and
voters should decide whether to amend the state’s constitution
to allow same-sex marriage. Democrats have balked at a statewide
vote on a matter that they say is a civil right.  As the court case plays out, Democratic lawmakers are
pushing for an override of Christie’s veto. The gay-marriage
bill passed 24-16 in the Senate and 42-33 in the Assembly.  An override would require 27 votes in the Senate, where
Democrats rule 24-16, and 54 in the Assembly, where they
dominate 48-32. Senator Raymond Lesniak, a Democrat from
Elizabeth, said in June that lawmakers in his house had begun
seeking Republicans who support an override.  The New Jersey case is Garden State Equality v. Dow,
L-001729-11, New Jersey Superior Court, Mercer County (Trenton).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  