-- Serbia Agrees to Name McKinsey’s Krstic as Finance Chief
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2013-08-15T09:59:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/serbia-agrees-to-name-mckinsey-s-krstic-as-finance-chief.html
Serbian Prime Minister  Ivica Dacic 
will name a McKinsey & Co. associate in New York to lead the
 Finance Ministry  as the government prepares for talks to join
the European Union and win a new international loan accord.  Lazar Krstic, a 2007 graduate of  Yale University  according
to his LinkedIn page, agreed to take the job, Sinisa Mali, the
adviser of Deputy Prime Minister Aleksandar Vucic, said by phone
today in Belgrade. At age 29, according to newspapers Blic,
Politika and Novosti, he would be the country’s youngest-ever
Finance Ministry head.  Dacic is planning to present members of his revamped
cabinet to lawmakers on Aug. 26. Vucic’s dominant Serbian
Progressive Party wants the new government to consolidate public
finances, lay out a foundation for economic growth and prepare
for a possible new standby agreement with the  International
Monetary Fund  and the EU.  “Krstic is our message to all the young, creative and
intelligent people, who unfortunately had to leave this country
in the past decades, that the doors are wide open,” Serbian
Progressive Party official Milenko Dzeletovic, who coordinates
the party’s economic team, told state TV broadcaster RTS
yesterday.  Serbia averted early elections on July 31 after Vucic’s
dominant Serbian Progressive Party agreed with Dacic to oust
Finance and Economy Minister  Mladjan Dinkic , a former central
banker, and his political party from the cabinet and name new
ministers. With the changes, the Progressives will have control
over the Finance and Economy ministries, as well as the central
bank, whose governor is a member of Vucic’s party.  McKinsey Alumni  The government has tapped McKinsey employees before for
policy-maker positions. After the 2000 ouster of former
strongman  Slobodan Milosevic , the government appointed
McKinsey’s Bozidar Djelic as the head of finances and Radovan Jelasic as a central bank vice governor.  Prior to his appointment, Djelic had advised the Russian
and Polish governments on macroeconomic policies and asset
sales.  The new cabinet’s focus will be to secure state financing
and cut borrowing needs over the medium term as well as narrow
the  budget deficit , the central bank’s chief economist, Branko Hinic, said in Belgrade yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  