-- Sharpe Ratio Flags Yuan as Best BRIC Carry Trade
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2013-08-16T04:32:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/sharpe-ratio-flags-yuan-as-best-bric-carry-trade.html
A measure of the  yuan ’s risks and
rewards signals it is the most attractive carry trade among the
largest  emerging markets , as the yield advantage of China’s
bonds over  U.S. Treasuries  has widened to a 22-month high.  The currency’s Sharpe ratio, which measures investor
returns adjusted for price swings, has increased to 9.78 percent
since the end of June, while the indicator was 0.55 percent for
 Russia , minus 1.81 percent for  Brazil  and minus 1.58 percent for
 India . China’s ratio is second only to Argentina’s 14.74 percent
among developing nations. The  rate premium  for the nation’s two-year notes over Treasuries rose to 343 basis points on Aug. 14,
the highest since October 2011.  “The Chinese currency has remained extremely strong and I
think the big reason is the interest-rate differential,” Rajeev De Mello, who manages $10 billion as head of Asian fixed-income
assets at Schroder Investment Management Ltd. in  Singapore , said
in an Aug. 14 interview. “It will keep the yuan supported. The
rates are already quite high when one takes into account the
economy is slowing and inflation is low.”  The yuan has delivered the best performance among 24
emerging-market currencies this year, rising 1.96 percent, as
the central bank seeks a stable currency while tackling economic
growth forecast to be the slowest in 23 years. The nation’s two-year yields rose because of a cash crunch engineered by
authorities in June to curb excessive lending, while the  Federal
Reserve  has pledged to keep monetary stimulus in place until the
 U.S. economy  improves.  Risk, Compensation  The Sharpe ratio, named after Nobel laureate and Stanford
University professor  William Sharpe , is a measure of the excess
return per unit of risk in holding a currency position. This is
used to determine how well an investor is compensated, with a
higher ratio translating to more of a reward.  China’s  three-month  central bank bill rate climbed 93 basis
points this quarter to 3.5 percent, while the  10-year yield  rose
45 basis points to 3.96 percent. The two-month gauge of expected
fluctuations in the yuan fell to 1.2 percent on Aug. 14, the
lowest level since January 2010, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That compares with 13.4 percent for the Brazilian
real, 12.6 percent for the Indian rupee and 8.2 percent for the
Russian ruble.  GDP Slows  China ’s slowing economy may limit returns on its assets.
Gross domestic product growth will ease to 7.5 percent this year,
the worst since 1990 and matching the government’s target,
according to the median estimate of analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Inflation was 2.7 percent in July and June, compared
with an average 3.5 percent in the past six years, official data
show.  While government data released this month showed rebounding
exports and manufacturing, smaller borrowers are reluctant to
add to their debt after the cash crunch. Credit downgrades
surged to a record 46 companies last month, according to an
estimate by Guotai Junan Securities Co., which began compiling
the data in 2005.  Credit-default swaps insuring China’s debt against non-payment have fallen 16 basis points this month to 106 on Aug. 15
in  New York , after reaching a 17-month high of 147 on June 24,
according to CMA prices. Aggregate financing, the broadest
measure of new credit, fell to a 21-month low in July at 809
billion yuan ($132 billion), data showed Aug. 9.  “Growth is still quite low,” said Rees Kam, a strategist
at SJS Markets Ltd., a Hong Kong-based financial services
company that expects the yuan to drop to 6.13 per dollar by the
end of September. “Further room for yuan appreciation will be
quite limited.”  Stable Yuan  The yuan, which touched a 19-year high of 6.1090 today,
will remain stable at an equilibrium level and the exchange
rate’s two-way flexibility will be increased, the People’s Bank
of China said in a May 9 report. The currency’s moves are
limited to 1 percent on either side of a  band set daily  by the
People’s Bank of China.  The authorities probably won’t let the currency weaken as
they open the onshore market to more international investors,
 Frances Cheung , a senior strategist in  Hong Kong  at Credit
Agricole CIB, said yesterday. “Inflows into China will likely
go into short bonds, like the two-year, and stocks,” she added.  Regulators expanded a program in March allowing
institutions to raise yuan offshore for investment in the
mainland, a step that moves the nation closer to a freely traded
currency. Six institutions won  Renminbi  Qualified Foreign
Institutional Investor licenses in July, up from three in June.  New Loans  The yield on two-year  government bonds  has risen 54 basis
points since the end of the second quarter to 3.76 percent on
Aug. 14, the highest level since September 2011. In contrast,
the two-year note yield in the U.S. declined three basis points
to 0.33 percent.  Front-end  interest rates  in China will probably move higher
as policy makers rein in credit while the improvement in July
data lessens the risk of easier monetary policy, Kumar Rachapudi,
a senior rates strategist in Singapore at Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd.  “The market will be reluctant to price much lower yields
because the data is positive enough for the market near term to
worry less about growth,” Rachapudi said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  