-- Singh Says Slow Economic Growth Phase in India Won’t Last Long
-- B y   P r a t i k   P a r i j a   a n d     B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 2013-08-15T05:24:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/singh-says-slow-economic-growth-phase-in-india-won-t-last-long.html
India ’s slow economic growth will
not last long as the government removes hurdles for stalled
projects, eases foreign ownership rules and starts work on new
ports and rail lines, Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  said.  “Economic growth has slowed down at present and we are
working hard to remedy the situation,” Singh, 80, said in  New
Delhi  today in a speech to mark Independence Day, the date in
1947 when British colonial rule ended. Work on two new ports,
eight airports, industrial corridors and rail projects will
start in coming months, he said.  Singh is seeking to repair the image of his government and
the ruling  Congress  party before elections due by May. A series
of corruption allegations, a slowing economy and rising prices
have all weighed on his administration. Singh responded by
rolling out populist legislation to expand distribution of cheap
food to the poor and ease foreign ownership rules to resurrect a
stalled economic agenda.  “In the coming months, we will see visible results of
these efforts to increase investment,” said Singh. “Our growth
will accelerate, new employment opportunities will be generated
and there will be improvements in the infrastructure sector.”  This was Singh’s 10th consecutive  Independence Day  speech.  Economic Woes  Singh is facing a record current account deficit, slowing
growth and a rising inflation rate. Eleven months after India
began easing caps on foreign-direct investment and restrictions
on the  bond market  to spur growth, data this week showed a
contraction in  industrial  output and an increase in price
pressures.  Industrial production fell 2.2 percent in June from a year
earlier, while consumer prices rose 9.64 percent year-on-year in
July, government reports showed on Aug. 12. The current-account
imbalance widened to an unprecedented 4.8 percent of gross
domestic product in 2012-2013.  “It is not only our country that is facing economic
difficulties. The last year has been difficult for the world
economy as a whole,” Singh said from behind a protective
enclosure while addressing the nation from Delhi’s 17th-century
Red Fort. “I believe that this phase of slow growth in India
will not last long.” he told to an audience of school children,
civilians and members of his government.  Currency Decline  The rupee has fallen more than 10 percent this year, the
worst performer in 2013 after the yen in a basket of 11 Asian
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  The government raised import tariffs on gold and silver on
Aug. 13 as part of steps to ease the deficit and reduce pressure
on the currency. The move to check imports comes after the
central bank raised two  interest rates  last month to fight the
rupee slump that risks fueling inflation.  Yesterday, the  Reserve Bank  of India cut the amount local
companies can invest overseas without seeking approval to 100
percent of their net worth, up from 400 percent.  Singh’s government aims to guarantee cheap food to the poor
by law as the Congress party seeks to build on vows to spread
the benefits of growth.  The government expects the parliament to approve a bill
shortly, to replace an ordinance, that seeks to provide
subsidized food grain to about 810 million Indians, Singh said
today.  Regional Tensions  Clashes between Indian and Pakistani troops along the de
facto border in the disputed territory of Kashmir this year have
cast a shadow over efforts to improve bilateral ties shattered
by the 2008 terrorist attack on Mumbai.  India said “specialist troops” of  Pakistan ’s army killed
five Indian soldiers along the border Aug. 6, claims Pakistan
rejected as “baseless and unfounded.”  “We will take all possible steps to prevent such incidents
in the future,” said Singh. “For relations with Pakistan to
improve, it is essential that they prevent the use of their
territory and territory under their control for any anti-India
activity.”  Pakistan’s Prime Minister  Nawaz Sharif  last month suggested
dates for talks on access to water, and the Sir Creek maritime
border, his first major peace initiative since winning elections
in May. This week he called for a new beginning in relations, an
olive branch that was dismissed in the Indian media after the
reported gun battles.  The territory of Kashmir is the biggest hurdle to India and
Pakistan improving ties. The neighbors have fought two of their
three wars over Kashmir, which is divided between them and
claimed in full by both.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  