-- Singapore July Home Sales Drop to Lowest Since December 2009
-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 2013-08-15T09:42:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/singapore-july-home-sales-drop-to-lowest-since-december-2009.html
Singapore’s home sales in July slid
to the lowest since December 2009 as investors balked at new
curbs on property loans and developers marketed fewer projects.  Home sales fell to 481 units last month, 73 percent lower
from a month earlier, according to data from the  Urban
Redevelopment Authority  released today. Sales rose to a record
2,793 units in March.  Record home prices amid low  interest rates  raised concerns
of a housing bubble and prompted the government to widen a four-year campaign in January to curb speculation in  Asia ’s second-most expensive housing market. Singapore in June also unveiled
new rules governing how financial institutions grant property
loans to individuals, extending the efforts.  “Prospective homebuyers are exercising caution in their
capital outlay before they make the property purchase,” Alice
Tan, head of consultancy and research at Knight Frank Pte Ltd.
said in an e-mail. “New sales volume is likely to stay low in
August 2013 at around 500 to 700 units.”  A new framework requires that lenders take a borrower’s
debt into consideration when granting property loans, the
Monetary Authority of  Singapore  said June 28. Home loans should
not exceed a total debt-servicing ratio of 60 percent and those
that do will be considered “imprudent,” it said.  Prices Rising  The island-state’s private residential property price index
rose 1 percent to 215.4 points in the three months ended June
30, extending a 0.6 percent increase in the first quarter.
Suburban home prices climbed 3.8 percent in the June quarter,
compared with the 1.4 percent increase in the previous quarter,
according to government data.  The  index  tracking property stock dropped 0.6 percent to
the lowest in more than a month at the close in Singapore.  Home sales reached 22,699 units in 2012, based on the
government data that dates back to 1996.  Singapore also plans to raise taxes for luxury homeowners
and residential properties that are rented out. The higher tax
will apply to the top 1 percent of homeowners who live in their
own residences, or 12,000 properties, Singapore Finance Minister
 Tharman Shanmugaratnam  said in February.  The government tightened loan-to-value limits for buyers
seeking a second mortgage, referring to the amount they are
allowed to borrow relative to the value of their properties. The
cash down-payment will rise to 25 percent from 10 percent
starting from the second loan, it said.  ‘The Shock’  “The lower sales are due to the shock of the new loan
rules,” said Nicholas Mak,  executive director  at SLP
International Property Consultants in Singapore. “That coupled
with slower loan processing by banks to enforce new rules
resulted in fewer launches by developers.”  Singapore has been attempting to rein in prices since 2009,
when the government barred interest-only loans for some housing
projects and stopped allowing developers to absorb interest
payments for apartments still being built.  Home prices  moderated “significantly” after several
rounds of cooling measures by the government, the Ministry of
National Development said on Aug. 13 in statement on its website
in response to lawmakers’ queries in Parliament.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pooja Thakur in Singapore at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  