-- Sirius Buys Connected-Vehicle Unit of Agero for $530 Million
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2013-08-15T20:15:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/sirius-xm-buys-connected-vehicle-unit-of-agero-for-530-million.html
Sirius XM Radio Inc. (SIRI)  agreed to buy
the connected-vehicle services business of Agero Inc. for $530
million, allowing the satellite-radio broadcaster to provide
Web-connected services for cars such as safety and navigation.  The cash transaction is expected to be completed in the
fourth quarter, New York-based Sirius said today in a statement.
The Agero unit makes software that is embedded in vehicles for
security and other purposes, Bill McLaughlin, a spokesman for
Agero, said in an interview.  The deal, the  first  at the satellite-radio broadcaster
since Sirius’s merger with XM Satellite Radio in 2008, would
help build on Sirius’s bid to move beyond radio to so-called
telematics, which connects cars with wireless technology. The
company announced a partnership with AT&T Inc. last month that
connects  Nissan Motor Co. (7201)  autos in  North America  with emergency
support, stolen vehicle tracking and roadside assistance.  “We expect telematics to develop into a meaningful
business for Sirius XM over time, and also provide some comfort
to investors that Sirius XM has something to gain from the
connected car, rather than simply facing more audio
competition,” James Marsh, an equity analyst at Piper Jaffray
Cos. in  New York , said in a research note.  Marsh has the equivalent of a buy rating on Sirius’s stock.  Following today’s purchase, Sirius will provide connected-vehicle services, such as real-time navigation, to more
automotive manufacturers, including BMW, Honda and Hyundai, than
any other provider, according to the statement. Sirius, home to
 Howard Stern , currently offers radio and data services in more
than 50 million vehicles.  Accelerates Development  “The transaction accelerates Sirius XM’s development in
architecture supporting connected-vehicle services, as well as
the ability to provide services over both satellite and cellular
networks,” Sirius Chief Executive Officer Jim Meyer said in the
statement.  Sirius fell 1.7 percent to $3.70 at the close in New York.
The shares have advanced 28 percent this year.  John Malone ’s  Liberty Media Corp. (LMCA)  gained majority control
of Sirius in January. Liberty Media CEO Greg Maffei became
Sirius’s chairman in April as part of a board shakeup. Mel Karmazin stepped down from the CEO job last year after clashing
with Malone, who provided a $530 million loan to Sirius in 2009
that kept the broadcaster out of bankruptcy.  Meyer was named CEO permanently in April after more than
eight years as Sirius’s president of sales and operations.  Morgan Stanley acted as financial adviser to Sirius.
Closely held Agero is based in Medford,  Massachusetts .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net ;
James Callan in New York at 
 jcallan2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  