-- SM Investments Leads Drop Among Philippine Stocks After MSCI Cut
-- B y   N o r m a n   P .   A q u i n o
-- 2013-08-15T06:28:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/sm-investments-leads-drop-among-philippine-stocks-after-msci-cut.html
SM Investments Corp., the holding
company of Filipino billionaire  Henry Sy , led a decline in
Philippine shares after  MSCI Inc. (MSCI)  cut the weighting of the
company in some of its indexes.  The stock slumped 7.3 percent to 809 pesos at the noon
break in Manila, heading for the lowest close since June 26. It
was the biggest contributor to a plunge in the  Philippine Stock
Exchange Index (PCOMP) , which fell 1.3 percent, poised for the biggest
loss since Aug. 6.  MSCI cut SM Investments’s weighting in several of its
gauges such as the Emerging Markets Index and Asia Pacific Index
in its quarterly review.  “SM Investments dragged the index down, especially since
the MSCI weighting cut was unexpected,” Jomar Lacson, an
analyst at brokerage Campos Lanuza & Co., said by phone in
Manila. “The market’s decline could also be partly traced to
losses in some stocks including  San Miguel  and JG Summit, whose
earnings were affected by huge foreign-currency losses.”  San Miguel Corp., the biggest Philippine company, lost 0.1
percent to 87.4 pesos, paring an earlier 2.9 percent drop. The
company posted its first quarterly loss since the period ended
December 2008 as the peso weakened.  JG Summit Holdings Inc. (JGS)  declined 4.8 percent to 40 pesos,
heading for the sharpest drop since June 13. The company
yesterday said net income in the second quarter fell to 310.8
million pesos ($7.1 million) from 2.56 billion pesos a year
earlier  on a 2.88 billion-peso foreign-exchange loss.  The peso has weakened more than 6 percent this year, the
fourth-worst performer in a basket of 11 Asian currencies
tracked by Bloomberg.  “Investors didn’t really expect foreign-currency losses
for some of these companies to be this big,” Lacson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Norman P. Aquino in Manila at 
 naquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  