-- Sony Said to Win Rights to Viacom for TV Streaming Service
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2013-08-16T07:36:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/sony-said-to-win-rights-to-viacom-shows-for-tv-streaming-service.html
Sony Corp. (6758)  reached a preliminary
accord to stream cable television programming from  Viacom Inc. (VIAB) 
over the Internet to TVs, game consoles and Blu-ray players, a
person with knowledge of the matter said.  Under the deal, Tokyo-based Sony would use the Web to
deliver shows such as “SpongeBob SquarePants” and “Teen
Wolf” to homes with those products, bypassing traditional pay
TV providers, said the person, who asked not to be named because
the matter remains confidential. The service also would sell
Viacom shows and movies on demand, the person said.  Adding live feeds from other studios to Sony’s own content
may help drive demand for the company’s consumer electronics by
creating online services to compete with providers including
Netflix Inc. Sony Chief Executive Officer  Kazuo Hirai  is
boosting investment in content production and TV networks as he
pushes his “One Sony” vision to unite products, including
mobile devices and TVs, with games, music and films.  “Sony wants to enable its hardware to access contents but
they also want to keep the platform open to others in order to
gather more users,” said Koki Shiraishi, an analyst at SMBC
Nikko Securities Inc. in Tokyo. “The only thing that matters
for the content holder is if they can monetize their shows.”  Mark Jafar, a spokesman for New York-based Viacom, the
owner of networks including Nickelodeon, MTV and  Comedy Central ,
declined to comment, as did Dan Race, a spokesman for Sony.  Joining Forces  The parties still must execute a definitive agreement,
according to the person. The terms will probably mirror those
Viacom has signed with traditional pay-TV providers, the person
said.  After posting a profit in smartphones and TV sets, Hirai
has committed to rejuvenating a film unit that slumped to No. 6
at the U.S. box office this year after being No. 1 last year.  Sony  fell  0.3 percent to 1,963 yen at the close of trading
in  Tokyo . The stock has more than doubled this year, compared
with a 33 percent gain in the benchmark Topix index.  This year, Sony moved its U.S. PlayStation and network
entertainment businesses into the same building in  San Mateo ,
 California , to collaborate on offerings that could include a
monthly subscription-based entertainment service, according to
people familiar with the plans.  Unit Cooperation  Sony bought a 32 percent stake in Multi Screen Media Pvt
Ltd. in  India  for $271 million in March, boosting its stake in
the television network venture to 94 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The transaction was part of Sony’s
efforts to boost its entertainment operation, Chief Financial
Officer Masaru Kato said Aug. 1.  The company expects cooperation between its entertainment
and consumer-electronics businesses to increase and help drive
growth in the units that makes smartphones, TVs and other
devices, Hirai said in a letter to Sony shareholder Third Point
LLC on Aug. 6.  Like  Intel Corp. (INTC) , Microsoft Corp., Google Inc. and other
technology companies, the maker of Bravia TVs and Xperia phones
has struggled to obtain movies and shows for an Internet-based
entertainment service. Major film and television producers fear
such services will jeopardize the $100 billion-a-year in fees
they share with cable, phone and satellite TV providers. The TV
industry also collects $59 billion a year in ad sales.  Intel, based in  Santa Clara , California, is developing a
set-top box for sale in stores this year, Eric Free, a vice
president and general manager, said in June. The product will be
sold with a monthly subscription providing live and on-demand
entertainment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  