-- Soros, Icahn Add Herbalife Stakes in Bets Against Ackman
-- B y   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n   a n d   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 2013-08-15T14:33:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/soros-icahn-add-herbalife-stakes-in-bets-against-ackman.html
Billionaires  George Soros  and  Carl Icahn  bought a combined 5.65 million shares in  Herbalife Ltd. (HLF)  in
the second quarter in a bet that hedge-fund manager  Bill Ackman 
is wrong about the nutrition and weight-loss supplement company.  Soros Fund Management LLC, the investor’s family office,
acquired a 4.9 percent stake in Herbalife valued at $227.5
million at the end of the quarter, according to a filing
yesterday. The company was Soros’s third-largest U.S. stock-listed holding as of June 30.  Ackman in December said Herbalife operated like a pyramid
scheme and his firm, Pershing Square Capital Management LP, has
sold short about 20 million shares in the company. Herbalife has
repeatedly denied the allegations. Icahn, 77, who bought shares
after Ackman laid out his bearish case, now is the company’s
largest  individual investor , with a 16.5 percent stake,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Icahn added 611,354 shares of Cayman Islands-based
Herbalife, bringing his stake to 17 million shares, valued at
$765.9 million at the end of the second quarter, according to a
separate filing yesterday.  Ackman’s Herbalife wager had also earlier this year pitted
him against rival  Daniel Loeb , founder of Third Point LLC, in a
public dispute over whether the company is a legitimate
enterprise.  Herbalife Shares  Soros, whose firm is based in  New York , joins investors
including Brookside Capital Management LLC that invested in
Herbalife in the quarter. Capital Group Cos., which runs the
 American Funds , and New York hedge-fund firm D.E. Shaw & Co.,
also bought Herbalife shares, while Tiger Consumer Management
LLC cut its stake.  Herbalife had jumped 77 percent since March 31 and more
than doubled this year through yesterday. The shares declined
1.3 percent to $65.26 at 10:03 a.m. New York time.  Soros, an 83-year-old hedge-fund industry pioneer and
philanthropist, also took a 9.1 percent stake in J.C. Penney Co.
in the quarter, with a market value of $341.4 million at the end
of June, yesterday’s filing shows. The family office disclosed a
7.9 percent passive stake in the Plano, Texas-based retailer in
April. The stock rose 2 percent to $13.37.  J.C. Penney is another investment where Soros’s firm has
opposed Ackman. Soros along with Glenview Capital Management LLC
told the retailer that they supported the current management
team after Ackman criticized the executives in letters last
week, people familiar with the situation have said.  Public Sparring  Ackman resigned from J.C. Penney’s board this week after
sparring publicly with fellow directors over how to reverse the
sales slump that’s dragged down the stock. Ackman has more than
$700 million in potential losses on his stake in the department-store chain.  Late last year, Soros asked to pull about $250 million it
had invested with  Pershing Square  because of disappointing
returns, according to a person briefed on the matter. The
redemptions are staggered over several quarters and will be
complete next year.  Soros’s firm sold its position in the SPDR Gold Trust, an
exchange-traded fund that tracks the yellow metal, valued at $82
million at the end of March, and its holding in Market Vectors
Gold Miners ETF, worth $100.9 million.  It also sold its 7.84 million shares of  US Airways Group
Inc. (LCC) , valued at $133.1 million at the end of the first quarter.
Before today, the shares  had fallen  14 percent since the U.S.
Justice Department sued to bar the merger of the airline with
AMR Corp., the operator of  American Airlines , earlier this week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katherine Burton in New York at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net ;
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  