-- South African Rand Gains for Second Day on U.S. Economy Caution
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2013-08-15T08:27:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/south-african-rand-gains-for-second-day-on-u-s-economy-caution.html
South Africa’s rand gained for a
second day after a U.S. central bank official cautioned against
excessive optimism about the economy, damping expectations the
Federal Reserve will reduce stimulus that’s boosted appetite for
emerging-market assets.  The Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index fell a second day after
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis President James Bullard said
yesterday policy makers should be careful in changing course
based solely on economic forecasts. U.S. inflation probably fell
to a monthly 0.2 percent in July from 0.5 percent in June,
according to a Bloomberg survey of 82 economists. South African
retail sales rose at the slowest pace in eight months in June,
according to a data released yesterday.  “Event risk today comes from the U.S.,” where slowing
inflation “would further question Fed tapering, and accelerate
dollar weakness,” John Cairns, a currency strategist at Rand
Merchant Bank in Johannesburg, said in e-mailed comments.
“Further rand gains this morning are possible given ongoing
dollar weakness.”  South Africa’s currency appreciated 0.7 percent to 9.9052
per dollar as of 10:26 a.m. in Johannesburg. Yields on benchmark
10.5 percent bonds due December 2026 were little changed at 8.27
percent.  Fed officials are debating when to begin scaling back a
third round of asset purchases as the U.S. labor market heals
and inflation remains below their 2 percent goal. In September,
Chairman Ben S. Bernanke will probably begin to reduce the
central bank’s $85 billion in monthly bond purchases, according
to 65 percent of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The U.S. consumer price index probably rose an annual 2
percent in July from 1.8 percent in June. Expansion in South
African retail sales was an annual 1.9 percent in June from 6.2
percent a month earlier, Statistics South Africa said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in Cape Town at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  