-- Standard Bank’s Profit Rises 14% on Increased Lending
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2013-08-15T15:41:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/standard-bank-s-profit-rises-14-on-increased-lending.html
Standard Bank Group Ltd. (SBK) ,  Africa ’s
largest lender, reported first-half profit that missed analyst
estimates as bad debts climbed.  Net income rose to 8.07 billion rand ($815 million) from
7.1 billion rand a year earlier, the Johannesburg-based bank
said today in a statement. Earnings per share excluding some
items rose 10 percent to 5.06 rand, missing the 5.22 rand median
estimate of four analysts in a Bloomberg survey. Bad debt
charges rose 28 percent to 5.06 billion rand.  Standard Bank  appointed Sim Tshabalala and Ben Kruger as
joint chief executive officers in March after Jacko Maree
stepped down after 13 years. The bank is seeking to attract more
low-income earners in  South Africa  while trying to boost returns
at its operations in 17 other African nations.  “South African households continue to struggle with high
overall debt burdens, coupled with sluggish income growth and
rising inflation,” the lender said in the statement.  Standard Bank is the second-worst performing stock on the
six-member FTSE/JSE Africa Banks Index this year after  Barclays
Africa Group Ltd. (BGA) , having dropped 4.2 percent compared with the
average decline of 3.7 percent. The stock fell 1.6 percent to
113.95 rand in Johannesburg trading today. Standard Bank
increased its first-half dividend 10 percent to 2.33 rand.  Economy  South Africa’s gross domestic product expanded 0.9 percent
in the first quarter, the slowest pace since a 2009 recession,
while unemployment climbed to 25.2 percent, up from 24.9 percent
in the previous three months. The price of gasoline in the
country has gained about 22 percent from July last year.  “Cost pressures will continue in the second half of the
year given the weaker rand,” Standard Bank said in the
statement, referring to a 15 percent decline in the South
African currency against the dollar this year. “We remain
confident in our ability to grow revenues.”  While Standard Bank’s bad debt charges advanced almost a
third in the first half,  Nedbank Group Ltd. (NED) ’s impairments rose
23 percent and Barclays Africa’s losses from loans and advances
fell 14 percent to 3.55 billion rand over the same period.  “We’re clear that the question is whether or not clients
have the capacity to take on loans,” Tshabalala said in a
telephone interview from Johannesburg. “We’re not applying a
blanket rule on unsecured lending, but we’re reducing our
exposure.”  Biggest Banks  South Africa’s biggest banks, including  FirstRand Ltd. (FSR)  and
Barclays Africa, started offering more loans not backed by
assets to low-income earners about four years ago as they sought
to boost profit. The growth in unsecured lending outstripped
that in mortgages before falling back in the first quarter of
this year as consumers struggled to repay debt amid rising
unemployment, increasing inflation and a slowing economy.  “What happened over the last few years with all the banks
and all the mono line lenders growing loan books over 30 percent
per year was crazy, and to a large extent ignored by regulators
till it was too late,” said Neville Chester, who helps oversee
the equivalent of $44 billion at Coronation Fund Managers Ltd.
in  Cape Town . “Fortunately the unsecured loan sector is not
that big in the overall size of the South African economy, and
it will not destabilize the banking system.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg  at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  