-- Caribbean System Crosses Yucatan as Erin Heads Westward
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n   a n d   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2013-08-16T10:23:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/storm-erin-drifts-west-as-caribbean-system-moves-ashore.html
 A Caribbean disturbance with the
potential to disrupt  Gulf of Mexico  energy operations crossed
the Yucatan Peninsula today as Tropical Storm Erin moved
westward across the Atlantic.  Erin, 430 miles (695 kilometers) west of the Cape Verde
Islands, headed west-northwest at 16 miles per hour, the
 National Hurricane Center  said in a 5 a.m.  New York  time
advisory. The storm, with winds of 40 mph, may strengthen to 60
mph in two days as its forward speed slows.  The hurricane center is also tracking a tropical wave over
Mexico’s Yucatan, home to beach resorts, that has a  50 percent
chance  of developing into a cyclone in the next two days.  “There is potential for development once the disturbance
moves over the Gulf of Mexico later today,” the center said in
a separate advisory.  The Gulf is home to about 6 percent of U.S. natural gas
output, 23 percent of oil production and at least 45 percent of
petroleum-refining capacity, according to the U.S. Energy
Department.  The Bay of Campeche, at the southern end of the Gulf, is
where  Petroleos Mexicanos , Mexico’s state-owned oil company, has
most of its output. Florida is the second-largest producer of
oranges after Brazil.  Land Threat  Erin will have “no impact to land for the foreseeable
future” and poses little threat to the U.S., said Andy Mussoline, a meteorologist at AccuWeather Inc. in  State College ,
Pennsylvania.  Atlantic storms are followed closely by energy companies
and commodities traders because they can disrupt production and
processing of natural gas and oil and destroy crops.  Erin is the fifth storm of the Atlantic season, which runs
from June 1 to Nov. 30. It’s forecast to encounter dry air
farther west and there’s a chance it will fall apart about five
days east of the Lesser Antilles, the center said yesterday.  The Caribbean system bears watching as it may strengthen
once it reaches the southern Gulf, said  Matt Rogers , president
of Commodity Weather Group LLC in Bethesda,  Maryland .  Some computer models show the system gaining enough
strength to become a tropical storm before going ashore for a
last time anywhere from Mexico to Louisiana, Rogers said. Two of
the most reliable models predict it won’t develop.  ‘Critical’ Period  “The next 12 to 24 hours will be critical to see what we
have left of this wave as it crosses the Yucatan,” Mussoline
said. Whether it develops, “the potential is there for heavy
flooding rainfall to affect the central Gulf Coast this
weekend.”  Enbridge Inc. (ENB) ’s Manta Ray offshore natural gas gathering
company evacuated non-essential personnel from two platforms off
Louisiana on Aug. 14.  Marathon Oil Corp. (MRO)  evacuated some workers
from its Ewing Bank platform in the Gulf yesterday.  BP Plc (BP/)  began removing non-essential personnel from four
offshore platforms yesterday, and drilling rigs contracted by
the company halted operations. Production at all platforms
“remains online,” the company said in a website statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net ;
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  