-- Structured Notes Tied to Currencies Fall on Stronger Dollar
-- B y   K e v i n   D u g a n
-- 2013-08-15T15:26:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/structured-notes-tied-to-currencies-fall-on-stronger-dollar.html
Sales of structured notes that bet
on a weakening  U.S. dollar  have stalled after the busiest first
quarter since 2010 on concern that reduced Federal Reserve
stimulus may strengthen the currency.  Investors have bought $3.36 million of the securities in
August after purchasing $3.95 million of them in July, the
slowest month since at least January 2010, when Bloomberg
started collecting comprehensive data on the securities. Banks
sold $339.8 million of notes tied to currencies in the first
three months of this year, 67 percent of the 2013 total.  The dollar has appreciated against other currencies as
investors are concerned that global economic growth will slow
and that the Fed will start to cut back on asset purchases, said
 Michael Woolfolk , a global-markets strategist at Bank of  New
York  Mellon Corp. in New York. The Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index,
which tracks the dollar against 10 other currencies, rose to a
three-year high of 1,054.41 on July 5.  “Evidence suggests that as the year’s gone on, the Fed’s
become less enamored with monetary easing,” which has led to a
stronger dollar, Woolfolk said in a telephone interview.  The Fed may begin trimming asset purchases later this year
and end them around mid-2014 if the economy improves in line
with officials’ expectations, Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said June
19. The bond buying, which puts downward pressure on borrowing
costs, tends to weigh on the currency.  The Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index jumped 1.1 percent on the
day of his remarks and gained 3.3 percent in two weeks.  Peso Notes  About 80 percent of U.S. currency-linked structured notes
sold this year, for offerings greater than $1 million, are tied
other currencies’ performance against the dollar and become more
valuable when it weakens, Bloomberg data show.  The most popular notes were tied to the value of the
 Mexican peso  against the U.S. dollar, according to Bloomberg
data. Banks sold $131 million of the securities this year.
That’s still 6.6 percent less than the $140.2 million issued
last year during the same period, when sales of notes betting on
the Mexican currency to appreciate surged as labor costs in the
country fell.  Investors bought $84.3 million of notes tied to the Chinese
 yuan  through March on bets that the country was recovering from
an economic slowdown, Bloomberg data show. Since then, banks
haven’t sold any, as  China’s economy  grew 7.5 percent from a
year earlier in the April-June period, slowing for a second
straight quarter.  Largest Offering  Deutsche Bank AG (DB)  had the largest currency-tied offering
this year with $45.6 million of one-year notes tied to an
equally weighted basket of the Mexican peso, the Polish zloty,
the Indonesian rupiah and the Korean won. The securities, issued
Feb. 1, yield 180.5 percent of the gains of the basket with 10
percent of capital at risk, according to a prospectus filed with
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  The notes, which JPMorgan Chase & Co. distributed for a 1
percent fee, last traded on Aug. 5 for 93.7 cents on the dollar,
according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Amanda Williams , a spokeswoman for Deutsche Bank in New
York, declined to comment on the securities.  Banks create structured notes by packaging debt with
derivatives to offer customized bets to retail investors while
earning fees and raising money. Derivatives are contracts whose
value is derived from stocks, bonds, commodities and currencies,
or events such as changes in  interest rates  or the weather.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Dugan in New York at 
 kdugan4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  