-- Sun Art Plans China Store Expansion as First-Half Profit Rises
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-15T06:41:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/sun-art-plans-china-store-expansion-as-first-half-profit-rises.html
Sun Art Retail Group Ltd. (6808) , China’s
largest hypermarket operator, said it expects to add as many as
55 stores in China this year, continuing its expansion even as
the Chinese economy slows.  The Shanghai-based venture between Taiwan’s RT-Mart and
France’s Groupe Auchan SA expects to open a total 45 to 55
stores in China this year, Nelson Hsu, the chief financial
officer of RT-Mart China, told reporters in Hong Kong today.
Eleven of those stores have already been added.  Sun Art has steadily increased China profits by opening new
outlets and tailoring its offerings to local tastes. It
yesterday reported a 15 percent increase in net income to 1.58
billion yuan ($258 million) in the first half, higher than the
average estimate of 1.56 billion  yuan  from three analysts
compiled by Bloomberg.  China’s economy expanded 7.5 percent in the second quarter
from a year earlier, the second straight deceleration.  “ China economy  will grow about 7.5 percent this year and
we anticipate we’ll be in line with that growth,” Chief
Executive Officer Bruno Mercier said at the press conference. He
declined to comment on any possible impact from the slowing
Chinese economy.  Sun Art had 284 hypermarkets in China as of 30 June, the
company said in its statement yesterday. Sun Art is the biggest
big-box retailer in China with 14 percent share of the
hypermarket industry last year, according to Euromonitor
International.  China Resources Enterprise Ltd. (291)  and  Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. (WMT)  are tied for second place in the country each with a
11 percent share.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net ;
Vinicy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  