-- Swire Properties Profit Misses Estimates on Rental Slowdown
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2013-08-15T09:18:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/swire-properties-profit-misses-estimates-as-retail-rents-slow.html
Swire Properties Ltd. (1972) , the biggest
commercial landlord in  Hong Kong ’s Island East, reported first-half profit that missed analysts’ estimates as retail rents
slowed and home sales trailed. The stock fell.  Earnings excluding revaluation gains and deferred taxes
rose 16 percent from a year earlier to HK$2.81 billion ($362
million) in the six months ended June 30, the company said in a
statement to the Hong Kong’s stock exchange today. That compares
with a HK$2.95 billion median estimates of five  analysts 
surveyed by  Bloomberg News .  Profit booked from apartment sales at the luxury Azura
project was less than forecast, Adrian Ngan, an analyst at Citic
Securities International, said after the earnings. Growth in
rental income from shopping malls is also diminishing as
mainland Chinese tourists spend less on luxury and fashion goods
amid a slowdown in the world’s second-largest economy.  “It just doesn’t have much of a growth driver, at least in
the short term,” said Hong Kong-based Ngan. “The results are
in line with our expectation, but it’s pretty clear that
shopping mall rents are slowing down, while apartment sales
won’t be picking up anytime soon.”  Shares of Swire Properties fell 2.6 percent to HK$22.70 at
the close of trading in Hong Kong, reversing earlier gains of as
much as 2.6 percent. The stock has declined 12 percent this
year, compared with the 0.5 percent drop in the benchmark  Hang
Seng Index .  First Decline  Retail rents  in Hong Kong will post their first annual
decline since 2008 this year as a pledge by the Chinese
government to limit additional stimulus adds to the risk of a
deeper economic slowdown, property broker Cushman & Wakefield
Inc. said in a July report.  The city has the world’s most-expensive shopping locations
as rents almost quadrupled over the past decade after  China 
relaxed travel visas to the city for its citizens, the broker
said.  Demand for the group’s shopping malls will stay strong
“albeit at a moderate pace than hitherto,” Swire Properties
Chairman Christopher Pratt said in today’s statement.  The company plans to pay 20 Hong Kong cents interim
dividend, down from 22 cents last year.  “We are a little concerned” about weaknesses in the Hong
Kong office market and also earnings from property sales, Pratt
said at a briefing in Hong Kong today.  Gross income  from the company’s Hong Kong retail portfolio,
which include 2.4 million square feet of space at the Pacific
Place and Cityplaza shopping malls, rose 7 percent in the first
half to HK$1.28 billion, it said.  Island East  Still, earnings were supported by rising demand for  office
space  in Island East as companies relocate away from the city’s
Central business district to reduce occupancy costs.  Swire Properties, which owns almost 11 million square feet
of office space in Hong Kong, said office rents at the Island
East district rose 51 percent to HK$40 per square foot a month
at the end of the first half, according to a filing in July.  Rents of prime offices in Central extended last year’s
decline in the first half, property broker CBRE Group Inc. has
said. JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Royal Bank of Scotland Plc are
among banks that moved some of their staff to Island East, about
a 15-minute subway ride from Central, over the past two years.  Gross rental income from offices in the city, which
includes the Pacific Place complex in the Admiralty area, rose 5
percent to HK$2.48 billion from a year earlier, Swire Properties
said today.  Home Prices  The developer booked a total of HK$278 million in profit
from apartments sold in projects including the Azura, compared
with a loss of HK$18 million a year earlier, it said. The
company has also sold units at the Dunbar Place and Argenta
projects in the first half and will book profits from those
sales when the developments are completed.  Home prices  in the city have fallen about 2.6 percent from
a record in March, after the government imposed its toughest yet
measures to quell concerns of an asset bubble, including raising
mortgage down-payment requirements and charging extra property
transaction taxes.  Gross rental income from the developer’s properties in
other parts of China, where it has more than 6 million square
feet of commercial property space, was HK$784 million in the
first half, HK$132 million higher than a year earlier, the group
said.  Swire Properties and partner Sino-Ocean Land Holdings Ltd.
sold an  office tower  at their project in the western Chinese
city of  Chengdu  for 2.1 billion  yuan  ($343 million), the
companies said Aug. 7. The 6.4 billion yuan-project, which also
includes a shopping mall, is scheduled to open in early 2014.  In a separate statement,  Swire Pacific Ltd. (19) , the parent of
Swire Properties, said underlying profit rose 48 percent from a
year earlier to HK$3.3 billion. Swire Pacific also controls
Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd., the city’s biggest carrier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  