-- U.K. Retail Sales Increase More Than Forecast on Heatwave
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-08-15T09:16:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/u-k-july-retail-sales-increase-more-than-forecast-on-heatwave.html
U.K. retail sales rose more than
economists forecast in July as the heatwave boosted demand for
food and alcohol.  Sales including fuel increased 1.1 percent from June, the
 Office for National Statistics  said today in London. The median
forecast of 21 economists in a Bloomberg News survey was for a
0.7 percent gain. Sales have gained for three consecutive
months, the first time that’s happened in 4 1/2 years. From a
year earlier, sales climbed 3 percent in July, the most since
January 2011.  The data add to recent surveys of a strengthening economy
after services, manufacturing and construction all improved in
July. Bank of England Governor  Mark Carney  has introduced
forward guidance to give consumers confidence that borrowing
costs will remain low, while spending was boosted last month as
Britain experienced its third-warmest July on record.  “Underlying sales momentum looks to be building,”  Philip Shaw , an economist at Investec Securities in London, said before
the data were released. Shoppers were “encouraged out by the
improvements in  consumer confidence  that have been emerging over
recent months.”  In the three months through July, retail sales rose 1.8
percent compared with the previous quarter, the most since March
2004, the statistics office said.  The monthly increase was led by food, which jumped 2.5
percent. Textiles, clothing and footwear fell 0.2 percent.
Excluding fuel, retail sales increased 1.1 percent and were up
3.1 percent from a year earlier.  Murray Victory  The Meteorological Office said Britain had its most
prolonged period of hot weather since August 1997 last month.
Economists also noted a boost to sales from sporting events such
as  Andy Murray ’s Wimbledon tennis championship victory.  Kingfisher Plc (KGF) , Europe’s largest home-improvement retailer,
said last month that sales rebounded in the second quarter as
warmer weather stoked demand for garden furniture and barbecues.
Same-store sales rose 2.5 percent in the 10 weeks ended July 13
after a 4.2 percent drop in the previous quarter.  Unemployment data yesterday showed jobless claims fell for
a ninth straight month in July, declining 29,200 to 1.44
million. That took the claimant-count rate to 4.3 percent, the
lowest since February 2009. The broader three-month  unemployment
rate  remained at 7.8 percent. That measure is now in the
spotlight after Carney pledged to refrain from raising  interest
rates  until it falls to 7 percent. The BOE doesn’t see that
happening until at least the fourth quarter of 2016.  The labor-market data highlighted the challenge facing
consumers as wage growth continues to trail behind the rate of
inflation. Average earnings excluding bonuses grew 1.1 percent
in the three months through June from a year earlier, while
consumer prices are rising by 2.8 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net  