-- U.S. Corporate Credit Swaps Increase to Highest Level in a Month
-- B y   S c o t t   H a r r i s o n
-- 2013-08-15T21:10:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/u-s-company-credit-swaps-increase-to-highest-level-in-a-month.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit
risk climbed to a one-month high as a decline in jobless claims
added to concern the  Federal Reserve  will begin to reduce its
asset purchases next month.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, increased
4.5 basis points to a mid-price of 80 basis points at 5:01 p.m.
in  New York , according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. That’s
the highest closing level since July 10.  Evidence that the economic recovery is strengthening may
prompt the central bank to begin paring its $85 billion in
monthly bond purchases that have bolstered credit markets.
Claims for jobless benefits declined by 15,000 to 320,000 in the
week ended Aug. 10, the fewest since October 2007, from a
revised 335,000, a Labor Department report showed today in
 Washington .  “Investors are assessing the possibility of tapering
coming at the end of the year, perhaps in September,” Dorian Garay, a New York-based money manager at ING Investment
Management, said in a telephone interview. Alongside the better
jobless claims data, he said, “that is definitely affecting the
appetite for fixed-income instruments sensitive to a rising
interest-rate environment.”  Consumer Prices  Credit-swaps indexes typically rise as investor confidence
deteriorates and fall as it improves. The contracts pay the
buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations,
less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  The consumer-price index increased 0.2 percent in July
after a 0.5 percent gain the prior month, according to a
separate Labor Department report. The advance matched the median
forecast of 82 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The core
measure, which excludes food and fuel, also climbed 0.2 percent
from June.  Overall consumer prices increased 2 percent in the 12
months ended in July after a 1.8 percent year-over-year gain in
the comparable period ending in June.  The Fed will probably reduce its asset purchases in
September, according to 65 percent of economists surveyed Aug.
9-13 by Bloomberg.  Kohl’s Swaps  The default premium on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index, a measure of speculative-grade corporate bond risk,
rose 17.7 basis points to 397.9 basis points, Bloomberg prices
show.  The cost to protect the debt of  Kohl’s Corp. (KSS)  from default
fell by the most in three months after the third-largest U.S.
retailer forecast sales for the third quarter above some
analysts’ estimates.  Five-year credit swaps tied to Kohl’s dropped 12.4 basis
points to 142.6 basis points as of 5:03 p.m., Bloomberg prices
show. That’s the biggest decline since May 16.  Kohl’s expects sales in the quarter ending Nov. 2 to
increase by 1 percent to 3 percent from the same period in 2012,
the  Menomonee Falls , Wisconsin-based company said today in a
statement. The average of 18 analysts’  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg had been 1.4 percent.  The average extra yield investors demand to hold
investment-grade corporate bonds rather than similar-maturity
Treasuries widened 0.9 basis point to 130.3 basis points,
Bloomberg data show. The measure for speculative-grade, or junk-rated, debt rose 1.5 basis points to 566.2 basis points.  High-yield, high-risk debt is rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service and less than BBB- at  Standard & Poor’s .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Harrison in New York at 
 sharrison52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  