-- U.S. Open Tennis to Have Roofs Over Two Stadiums by 2018 Event
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i   a n d   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2013-08-15T18:03:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/u-s-open-tennis-to-have-roofs-over-two-stadiums-by-2018-event.html
The U.S. Open will have roofs over
two stadiums within five years, with one over its biggest venue
possibly ready for the 2016 tennis championship.  The Teflon-coated retractable roof over Arthur Ashe Stadium
is the central element of a $550 million renovation of the
National Tennis Center in Flushing Meadows, New York.  The roof over Ashe will cost more than $100 million, the
U.S. Tennis Association said. A new 15,000-seat Louis Armstrong
Stadium also will have a roof by 2018 at the latest, the USTA
said.  The decision to cover Ashe Stadium comes after bad weather
caused scheduling delays at the season’s final Grand Slam
tournament the past five years, and brings the U.S. Open in line
with the sport’s other three major championships, which all have
covered stadiums or plans to build them.  “We have been working toward a viable design for a roof on
Arthur Ashe Stadium for more than a decade,” USTA Chairman Dave
Haggerty said at a news conference. “Through a long and arduous
process, we feel that we now have a design that meets the
criteria of being architecturally sound, aesthetically pleasing,
reasonably affordable, and buildable.”  The USTA said the project will be completed in three phases
and won’t disrupt the tournament, which this year is scheduled
to run from Aug. 26 through Sept. 9. The renovation will be paid
for through a combination of bond funding and tournament
revenue, USTA Chief Operating Officer Gordon Smith said, adding
that admission prices won’t rise as a result.  “We’re not going to pay for this on the backs of our
ticket holders,” he said. The expansion will increase
attendance at day sessions to 50,000 from about 40,000, the USTA
said.  While the USTA’s financing model doesn’t include the sale
of naming rights at Arthur Ashe Stadium as a necessity, the
organization is “not excluding the possibility,” Smith said.  Construction Plans  Construction will begin after this year’s U.S. Open.  The roof over Ashe, the largest tennis venue in the world
that holds about 22,500 fans, is scheduled to be completed by
August of 2017, though organizers said it could be in place by
the 2016 tournament.  Other parts of the renovation include the construction of a
new Armstrong Stadium with a retractable roof, and a new 8,000-seat Grandstand Stadium, which will be shifted to the northeast
corner of the facility from the southwest to better distribute
fan traffic. Several field courts will also be moved to create a
wider pedestrian walkway, allowing for a new food court,
merchandise locations, sponsor booths and other fan amenities.  The roof at Ashe will be made of a lightweight, flexible,
translucent Teflon-covered fabric stretched over a steel frame
and supported by eight steel columns surrounding the venue. It
will open or close in five-to-seven minutes.  Roof Features  The material lets in diffused light that causes no shadows
on the courts and has at least a 30-year lifespan. The stadium
will have a gutter system that’s 24 feet wide and six feet deep
to handle rainwater spilling off the roof, designers said.  The men’s championship match at the U.S. Open has been
pushed to Monday for the past five years because of weather
delays after 21 years of on-time finishes. When finished, the
roof will only be closed in bad weather, organizers said.  ‘We want this to be known as an outdoor tournament,’’ Smith
said. “We’re only going to close it if it’s raining or
absolutely going to rain.  Wimbledon’s Centre Court has had a retractable roof over
the only major played on grass since 2009. The Australian Open
has roofs over its two main courts and is considering a third.
The French Open, the lone clay-court major, has plans to put a
roof on its main stadium.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  