-- U.S. Net Outflow of Long-Term Securities Increased in June
-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s
-- 2013-08-15T14:29:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/u-s-net-outflow-of-long-term-securities-rises-to-66-9-billion.html
Foreign selling of U.S. long-term
portfolio assets rose for a second straight month in June as
investors abroad sold equities and a record amount of Treasury
notes and bonds, a government report showed.  The net long-term portfolio investment  outflow  was $66.9
billion after a $27 billion net decline in May, the Treasury
Department said in a statement today in Washington. Net selling
of long-term Treasuries by private foreign investors increased
to $40.1 billion from $29 billion the prior month, the
department said.  Private foreign investors were net sellers of all
categories of U.S. long-term portfolio assets -- government
debt, agency securities, corporate bonds and stocks in June, the
report showed. As U.S. growth strengthens and the world economy
improves, investors may be more willing to take on risks
elsewhere before the  Federal Reserve  starts reining in monetary
stimulus, economists said.  “Changing expectations for the future path of Fed policy
led to some significant deleveraging,” said Thomas Simons, a
government-debt economist in  New York  at Jefferies LLC, one of
the 21 primary dealers that trade with the Fed.  Total net selling of Treasuries in June, combining official
and private transactions, was an all-time high of $40.8 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg going back to 1977.  Total Flows  Including short-term securities such as Treasury bills and
stock swaps, the total cross-border  outflow  was $19 billion in
June, compared with a $56.6 billion inflow the prior month, the
report showed.  Private investors abroad sold a net $25.5 billion of U.S.
equities in June, $9.1 billion of government agency bonds and
$6.9 billion of corporate bonds, today’s report showed. The net
selling of equities was the biggest since August 2007.  The Treasury’s monthly report on the cross-border flow of
portfolio assets captures foreign buying and selling of U.S.
securities as well as American investors’ transactions abroad.
It also tracks holdings of Treasuries by countries.  China  stayed the biggest foreign owner of U.S. Treasuries
in June as holdings fell $21.5 billion to $1.276 trillion,
according to the Treasury. It was the biggest drop in China’s
Treasuries holdings selling since December 2011, data compiled
by Bloomberg showed.  Japan , the second-largest holder, lowered its holdings by
$20.3 billion to $1.083 trillion.  Fed’s Tapering  The Fed may start to taper its $85 billion in monthly  bond (BUSY) 
buying later in 2013 and halt purchases around mid-2014 as long
as the world’s largest economy performs in line with its
projections, Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told reporters June 19
after a two-day meeting of the  Federal Open Market Committee .  His description of the end of quantitative easing indicates
that Fed officials see the economy finally healing from a burst
credit bubble that deflated housing prices by 35 percent over
almost six years, left one in 10 American workers unemployed in
October 2009 and prompted the biggest overhaul of financial
regulation since the 1930s.  The Standard & Poor’s 500  Index (SPX)  dropped 1.5 percent in
June, the first monthly decline since October 2012. Investors in
U.S. Treasuries lost 1.4 percent that month, according to
Bloomberg World Bond Indexes. The Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index, a
gauge of the greenback’s value against 10 major currencies
weighted by liquidity and trade flows, gained 0.3 percent in
June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meera Louis in  Washington  at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  