-- U.S. Insulin Prices Rise as Sanofi, Novo Await Rivals
-- B y   T r i s t a   K e l l e y
-- 2013-08-15T10:22:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/u-s-insulin-prices-rise-as-sanofi-novo-await-rivals.html
Sanofi (SAN)  raised the U.S. price of its
Lantus insulin for a second time this year and  Novo Nordisk A/S (NOVOB) 
may follow suit before an onslaught of generics increases
competition in the $35 billion diabetes market.  Sanofi raised the U.S. wholesale price of its Lantus vials
by almost 15 percent to $16.64 per milliliter and of its Lantus
Solostar injection pens by almost 10 percent to $18.38 per
milliliter, Jack Cox, a spokesman for Paris-based Sanofi, said
in an e-mail. Those increases followed a 10 percent price
increase in April for both versions of Lantus, the world’s best-selling diabetes treatment.  Novo Nordisk increased U.S. prices for Levemir by 10
percent and Victoza by 8 percent during the second quarter, said
spokesman Mike Rulis. Novo, based in Bagsvaerd,  Denmark , last
week raised its full-year sales and profit forecasts in part
thanks to an unexpected revenue boost from its diabetes
treatments. Victoza’s second-quarter sales jumped 25 percent.  The companies are taking advantage of a drop in costs in
the world’s largest pharmaceutical market. Total U.S. drug
spending declined by about 1 percent to 2 percent in the first
half, caused by a faster-than-expected replacement of top-selling brand-name medicines with cheaper generic copies, Novo
executives said on a conference call last week. That has reduced
pressure on insurers and other payers to cut costs and leaves
room for price increases, they said.  Taking Increases  “Products that are of high value and that are protected in
one way or another, they have the opportunity to take price
increases without sort of messing up the whole system,” Novo’s
Chief Operating Officer Kaare Schultz said on the call. “And
we’re seeing that at a slightly higher level than what we had
been anticipating.”  The market for drugs to treat diabetes will probably soar
almost 66 percent to more than $58 billion in 2018 compared with
last year, according to  Standard & Poor’s . Lantus, with 4.96
billion euros ($6.59 billion) in revenue last year, faces a
biosimilar version being developed by Eli Lilly & Co. and
Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH.  “There isn’t a focus on cost-benefit in the U.S.,”  Mark Purcell , an analyst at Barclays Plc, said in an interview.
“You’ve only got, effectively, two players in the market so
it’s a classic supply-and-demand cycle; and the demand is
huge.”  Sanofi considers the medical value of its products as well
as market conditions when determining U.S. prices, Cox said.  Final Prices  “The final price an individual consumer pays is dependent
upon various factors including an individual’s health insurance
coverage,” he said.  Novo will probably raise insulin prices for a second time
this year after the Lantus increases, Purcell said. Rulis, the
Novo spokesman, declined to comment on whether price increases
are planned in the U.S. or other regions, citing company policy.  “The actual price of these products vary significantly
depending on the rebates that the buyers, typically managed-care
organizations, are able to negotiate,” Rulis said in an e-mail.
“Decisions to change prices are taken after careful analysis of
market dynamics.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Trista Kelley in London at 
 tkelley2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kristen Hallam at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net  