-- Hublot Dropped Manchester United After Ferguson Retirement
-- B y   P a u l   J a r v i s
-- 2013-08-15T19:58:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/hublot-dropped-manchester-united-after-alex-ferguson-retirement.html
Hublot, the luxury watchmaker owned
by  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC) , said Alex Ferguson’s
retirement as manager of Manchester United contributed to its
decision to end five years sponsoring  England ’s soccer champion.  The arrival of several new sponsors at the club was another
reason behind Hublot’s decision not to renew its association,
Hublot Chairman Jean-Claude Biver said by phone today. His
version of events was disputed by Manchester United, which said
the Nyon, Switzerland-based watchmaker was outbid.  “We had a certain disappointment when I heard that Sir
Alex was going to retire,” Biver said today in a telephone
interview. “That fact that Sir Alex was going to put a certain
distance between him and Manchester, and still be involved but
not anymore at the same level of command, was an element that
helped us to make a change after five years.”  Ferguson retired as manager at the end of last season
having led Manchester United to 38 trophies in 26 years. The
club, the world’s second-richest sports franchise, said
yesterday that it signed a three-year partnership with U.S.
watchmaker Bulova, replacing Hublot as its official timekeeper.  The reasons cited by Biver “had not affected their
willingness to renew at the time when Bulova and a number of
other parties made much higher offers for the partnership and
the club had declined Hublot’s bid,” Phil Townsend, director of
communications, said today by e-mail. “Both those events
occurred prior to Sir Alex’s retirement and the club continued
with the process, without Hublot, throughout that time.”  ‘Golden Contract’  Manchester United last month signed  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP)  to its
list of more than 30 sponsors, after last year adding Chevrolet.  “When a new partner is coming in, sometimes they might not
have the same coherence,” Biver said.  Still, Hublot has no regrets over the partnership with
Manchester United, which more than paid for itself in
advertising and sales, Biver said. He declined to provide
financial details of the agreement, which the parties said at
the time was a “multimillion-pound” sponsorship.  “Manchester United was a golden contract for us,” Biver
said. “It really was one of the best contracts I ever did.”  Biver said 71-year-old Ferguson had become a personal
friend since Hublot began sponsoring the team in 2008.  “I see him on a relatively regular basis, when he comes to
 France  or when I go to England,” the executive said. In
addition to a passion for soccer, the two men share a love of
good food and fine wines, said Biver, a supporter of Swiss club
FC Basel, which eliminated Manchester United from the UEFA
Champions League in December 2011.  Bulova Contract  Soccer will remain the biggest element of sponsorship
spending for Hublot, which last year entered a partnership with
European champion Bayern Munich. The watchmaker is also a
corporate sponsor of the 2016 European championships and the
next three World Cup tournaments, Biver said.  Soccer represents about 40 percent of Hublot’s sponsorship
budget, compared with 30 percent for Formula 1 and 20 percent
for basketball, Biver said. The company’s single biggest
sponsorship agreement is with Ferrari, he said.  Manchester United’s agreement with Bulova, a unit of
 Japan ’s Citizen Watch Co., allows the New York-based company to
place its name on scoreboards at United’s Old Trafford stadium
and on advertising hoardings. Bulova will also take over from
Hublot in producing timepieces using the club crest.  Manchester United spokeswoman Kate Lowe declined to comment
on the value of the new partnership, which places Bulova
alongside sponsors including  Aon Plc (AON) ,  Nike Inc. (NKE)  and DHL.  Manchester United is worth $3.2 billion, according to the
Forbes list of the world’s most valuable sports teams, published
in July. That places the franchise second only to Spanish soccer
club Real Madrid, valued at $3.3 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Jarvis in London at 
 pjarvis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  