-- UBS to Manage China’s First Fund Investing in Rental Homes
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-15T07:51:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/ubs-to-manage-china-s-first-fund-investing-in-rental-homes.html
UBS Global Asset Management ( China )
Ltd. will start a fund that invests in  Shanghai ’s social housing
market, the first investment fund of its kind in China.  The fund, together with Shanghai Hongkou Public Rental
Housing Investment and Administration Co., will invest in public
rental homes in Hongkou district in Shanghai, UBS said in an e-mailed statement today. It will convert into a publicly listed
real estate investment trust in China when the regulator allows,
UBS said, without saying how much it plans to raise.  Chinese developers have been seeking different ways to
finance projects amid the government’s efforts over the past
three years to curb the property market. Share sale plans
announced by developers including  Xinhu Zhongbao Co. (600208)  and  China
Merchants Property Development Co. (000024)  this month reinforced
expectations that regulators will ease limits on fundraising by
developers as slowing economic growth spurs adjustments to the
tightening policies.  “Investors in the fund have access to a stable cash
dividend payout as well as to potential asset appreciation,”
Xinyuan Ling, China chairman of UBS Global Asset Management,
said in the statement.  Taiping Asset Management Co., a subsidiary of China Taiping
Insurance Group Co. is the lead private investor in the fund,
while UBS SDIC Fund Management Co. is the fund’s investment
adviser, according to the statement.  Fundraising Plans  The country doesn’t have publicly traded REITs. China
Securities Regulatory Commission will release draft rules on
such products for public feedback, China Business News reported
on May 31, citing an unidentified person.  Xinhu Zhongbao said on Aug. 2 that it planned to raise as
much as 5.5 billion  yuan  ($899 million) in a private placement
to finance two social housing projects.  Former premier Wen Jiabao pledged in 2011 that the
government would build as many as 36 million social-housing
units, including public rental homes, within five years.  In 2012, the government invested 412.9 billion yuan in
social housing, while another 466.8 billion yuan came from bank
loans, bonds and other social financing, according to a
government report on Aug. 10.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  