-- Ukraine Links Russia Trade Difficulties to Customs Union Discord
-- B y   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a   a n d   K a t e r y n a   C h o u r s i n a
-- 2013-08-15T12:15:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/ukraine-links-russia-trade-difficulties-to-customs-union-discord.html
Delays experienced by Ukrainian
exporters on the border with  Russia  are linked to disagreements
between the two countries over a Russia-led customs union,
 Ukraine ’s Prime Minister  Mykola Azarov  said.  Russia’s Federal Customs Service has placed Ukrainian
exporters in a higher-risk category, subjecting their goods to
lengthier checks, Ukraine’s Employers Federation said yesterday.
The country’s biggest steel producer Metinvest said its
shipments have drawn additional scrutiny for two days.  “There are certain difficulties linked first of all to the
setting up of the customs union,” Azarov said today in the
eastern city of Luhansk, according to remarks broadcast by
private TV channel 5. Russia’s government denied restricting
Ukrainian imports, saying delays are down to decisions by
customs officials, its press office said today by phone.  Russia wants Ukraine to join a customs union it’s formed
with Belarus and Kazakhstan, promising benefits including
cheaper natural gas and higher trade. Instead, Ukraine is
seeking to sign a free-trade pact with the European Union in
November, a move that would rule out customs union membership.  Russia is the top destination for Ukrainian goods exports,
with almost a quarter of foreign sales being shipped there in
the first six months of the year, according to Ukraine’s  state
statistics office .  Russia banned imports of sweets produced by Ukraine’s
Roshen on July 29, saying consumer regulators had discovered
carcinogenic substances.  Kazakhstan , Tajikistan and Moldova
inspected Roshen products this month and said they found no
dangerous ingredients.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net ;
Kateryna Choursina in Kiev at 
 kchoursina@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net ;
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  