-- Mumias Sugar Rebounds to Surge Most in 5 Months: Nairobi Mover
-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 2013-08-15T12:38:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/mumias-sugar-rebounds-to-surge-most-in-4-months-nairobi-mover.html
Mumias Sugar Co., Kenya’s largest
miller of the sweetener, rallied the most in more than five
months, rebounding after a signal indicating the stock was
oversold dropped to the  lowest  in almost 4 1/2 years.  The stock climbed 7.4 percent to 3.65 shillings by the
close in the capital, Nairobi, the largest gain since March 5.
Almost 66 percent of the three-month average volume of shares
were traded.  Mumias’ 14-day  relative-strength index  fell to 14.1
yesterday, the lowest since March 2009, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. A level below 30 signals to some
technical analysts that the stock is oversold and set for to
climb. The RSI rose to 30.4 today. Last month, lawmakers from
western Kenya asked President Uhuru Kenyatta to summon directors
of company to explain its “poor performance,” according to a
July 31 statement from the presidency.  “There was some panic sell-off when there were lots of
bearish reports on the stock,” Davis Mika, an analyst at
Nairobi-based Contrarian Investing  Kenya  Ltd., said by phone.
“We are likely to see government intervention because of the
political ramifications. It’s a company which plays a big part
in the economy of western Kenya and a lot of farmers depend on
it.”  The company’s share price fell 17 percent in three trading
days to yesterday after Nairobi-based Sterling Capital Ltd. more
than halved its target price on the stock, cutting it to 4.32
shillings from 9.20 shillings set in July 2012. A message left
on the voicemail of Mumias’ Marketing Manager Pamela Lutta
wasn’t immediately returned.  Second Worst  “That  fall  should now be able to attract investors to the
company at the low share price,” Maureen Kirigua,  a research
analyst at Nairobi-based Sterling Capital, said by phone today.  In February, Mumias said earnings for the year through June
would be more than 25 percent lower than the previous period. In
the first half through December, the company reported a loss of
1.1 billion shillings ($12.6 million) from a profit of 825.2
million shillings. In the meeting with lawmakers, Kenyatta said
he “cannot allow the company to collapse under our watch.”  The company has the second-worst performing stock on the
Nairobi Securities Exchange’s FTSE NSE 25 Share Index this year,
falling 25 percent. The gauge has rallied 30 percent in the
period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  