-- Hungary Five-Year Yields Jump to 7-Week High: Budapest Mover
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-08-15T15:13:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/hungary-five-year-yields-jump-to-7-week-high-budapest-mover.html
Yields on  Hungary ’s five-year bonds
advanced to the highest level in seven weeks on speculation
improving U.S. economic data will prompt the  Federal Reserve  to
phase out debt purchases that boosted demand for riskier assets.  The yields rose 12 basis points, or 0.12 percentage point,
to 5.57 percent by 5:11 p.m. in Budapest, the highest on a
closing basis since June 27. The forint weakened 0.1 percent to
299.36 per euro, extending its loss in the past four sessions to
1 percent.  Yields on 30-year Treasuries rose to a two-year high and
stocks fell in  Europe  and the U.S. as signs of an improvement in
the world’s biggest economy dimmed prospects for more stimulus.
Claims for U.S. jobless benefits unexpectedly dropped last week
to the lowest level in almost six years, data showed today.  “We are following international sentiment,” Andras Sovany, a Budapest-based fixed-income trader at ING Groep NV,
wrote by e-mail today. “The U.S. market is weakening and other
 emerging markets  are also under pressure.”  Lower liquidity because of holidays in some markets also
added to swings in the market, Sovany said. Poland and  Austria 
are among markets that are closed for a holiday today.  Hungary sold 60 billion forint ($265 million) of 12-month
T-bills at an auction today, 10 billion forint more than
planned. The average yield was 4.01 percent, the  lowest  level
for that maturity since a previous sale on May 23, according to
data from the Debt Management Agency on Bloomberg.  Yields on shorter-dated Hungarian debt have plummeted as
the central bank lowered its benchmark rate in 12 consecutive,
25 basis-point cuts to a record 4 percent by last month, with
policy makers pledging more easing.  “The curve is quite steep so it’s a question how long that
can last,” Sovany said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  