-- Violence Convulses Egypt as Toll Rises, U.S. Calls Off War Games
-- B y   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y   a n d   O l a   G a l a l
-- 2013-08-15T19:04:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/violence-convulses-egypt-as-toll-rises-u-s-calls-off-war-games.html
A main government installation near
Cairo was attacked and 11 security personnel were gunned down in
new eruptions of violence following the military-backed
government’s deadly suppression of an Islamist protest. The U.S.
canceled joint war games with  Egypt  to signal its outrage over a
death toll that ballooned to almost 600.  Hundreds loyal to ousted Islamist President Mohamed Mursi
attacked the governor’s offices in Giza near Cairo, some hurling
firebombs and firing guns, governorate spokesman Amin Abdel-Moneam said today by phone. Clashes also erupted elsewhere
across the riven nation as the violent breakup of two pro-Mursi
protest camps deepened the  fault lines  Islamists and their
rivals have drawn. Forces were told to use live bullets to fend
off assaults on buildings or troops, the government said in an
e-mailed statement. Islamists denied carrying out any attacks.  Mursi’s Islamist supporters, who say his July 3 overthrow
by the military was illegal, vowed today to continue their
protests until he is reinstated. Hamza Zawba, spokesman for the
Muslim Brotherhood’s Freedom and Justice Party, described the
police raids on the encampments as “a massacre,” saying, “We
have no option but to continue to demonstrate.”  Streets in Egypt’s ordinarily teeming capital of 19 million
people were mostly deserted throughout the day and army vehicles
were deployed in the streets around one of the disbanded
encampments. Seven soldiers and four police officers were shot
dead in the  Sinai peninsula  and outside Cairo, officials said.
Egypt’s benchmark government bonds slumped for a second day and
the nation’s default risk climbed.  Mediation Foundered  Police charged into the camps after international efforts
to mediate an end to the weeks-long standoff foundered. The
government imposed a monthlong state of emergency after the
raid, giving itself broader powers of detention, and imposed a
curfew on large parts of the nation. The death toll rose to at
least 578, with 4,201 hurt, state-run  Middle East   News Agency 
reported. The Muslim Brotherhood says the figure is much higher.  About 200 people had already been killed in violence
between the opposing camps since Mursi’s removal.  The government warned it would end the unrest, saying it
was “determined to face terror and sabotage acts commited by
elements of the Muslim Brotherhood.”  Zawba, the spokesman of the Freedom and Justice party,
denied allegations the group attacked police stations, churches
or any public installations as authorities claimed. He said the
government staged the violence to discredit Islamists.  Charred Mosque  Bulldozers razed barricades at Rabaa square in Cairo, site
of one of the two encampments, opening some side streets to
traffic as army officers looked on. Its mosque, where a
makeshift field hospital had been set up until police destroyed
it, was charred. Small clouds of white smoke lingered inside,
while bloodied sheets were scattered on the ground outside.  “Fire was coming from all directions, nobody knew what was
happening,” said Wael Mohamed, 37, at the mosque where he took
refuge yesterday. “The bombs they were throwing would land on
somebody or something and burn them down.”  Army tanks and police armored vehicles were deployed in the
streets around the mosque, and the two main roads that branch
out from the square were still closed to traffic shortly before
the curfew started at 7 p.m. local time. A soldier atop the
mosque’s minaret was cheered by several onlookers as he took
down a large poster of Mursi. Trucks were removing rubble and
metal planks among other remains from the square.  Casualty List  About a mile (2 kilometers) away, a list bearing the names
of at least 245 dead people hung outside the Imam mosque, where
the wounded and corpses were taken after Rabaa was stormed. A
woman sitting by a body asked God to take revenge on what she
called the oppressors. At least three of the corpses were
completely charred.  International outrage over the assault on the protest
mounted, with the U.K.,  United Nations ,  Turkey  and European
Union denouncing the violence. President  Barack Obama ,
interrupting his vacation to announce next month’s joint
military exercise had been called off, said “we deplore
violence against citizens.” He warned that Egypt’s military-backed government has embarked on a “dangerous path.”  The U.S., which has a decades-old alliance with Egypt’s
army and provides it with more than $1 billion in annual aid,
already postponed delivery of four fighter jets to Egypt and was
re-evaluating other aid, according to a U.S. official who asked
not to be identified discussing internal deliberations.  Government Rift  The violent putdown of the protest created a rift within
the government as well. Its most prominent member, Nobel peace
laureate  Mohamed ElBaradei , resigned as vice president, saying
he didn’t want to bear responsibility for “bloodshed that could
have been avoided.” Yet there was no immediate evidence of a
broader backlash.  “The military was always, and remains, the dominant
political and economic force in the country,” said  Ian Bremmer ,
founder of Eurasia Group, in an interview today on  Bloomberg
Surveillance . “You have a real metastasis of extremism on the
ground. There are very few moderates left. What had been one of
the most important moderating countries for stability in the
Middle East is now in free fall.”  The turmoil sent Egypt’s benchmark government bonds
slumping for a second day, with yields at a five-week high. The
yield on 5.75 percent notes maturing in April 2020 rose 22 basis
points to 9 percent at 5:55 p.m. in Cairo, the highest on a
closing basis since July 9 and taking the two-day surge to 68
basis points.  Credit default swaps, contracts insuring the nation’s debt,
have jumped 45 basis points in two days to 795, according to CMA
data. The stock exchange was shut today after the central bank
ordered banks to close.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Salma El Wardany in Cairo at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net ;
Ola Galal in Cairo at 
 ogalal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  