-- Egypt’s Brotherhood Calls for Rallies to Protest Killings
-- B y   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y   a n d   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2013-08-16T16:57:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/violence-convulses-egypt-as-obama-calls-off-war-games.html
Thousands of Egyptians poured into
the streets after Friday prayers to protest this week’s deadly
crackdown on Islamists, sparking clashes across the country.  Troops backed by tanks and helicopters surrounded Ramsis
Square, a focal point of rallies in central Cairo. The  Muslim
Brotherhood , which called the protests, put the death toll at
60, while state-run Ahram Online said 27 people died, seven in
the capital. Security forces and demonstrators also clashed in
the provinces of Giza, Alexandria, Fayoum Ismailiya, Damietta,
Port Said and Gharbiya.  The rallies were being held to protest the Aug. 14 killing
of about 578 people when police stormed sit-ins by supporters of
ousted President Mohamed Mursi and in the clashes that erupted
across the country. The army, which removed Mursi from power and
detained him last month, assumed responsibility for maintaining
order as a state of emergency and curfews were declared after
the raid. The government yesterday authorized security forces to
use live ammunition to repel attacks on personnel or government
buildings.  The assault on two squares in Cairo and Giza, where
Brotherhood supporters were camped out to demand Mursi’s return,
turned into the bloodiest day in Egypt’s recent history and drew
worldwide condemnation. The authorities said the protesters were
armed and threatened national security.  Army’s Role  “The army did not play a direct role in the actions
against the protest camps, but may now become more heavily
involved as increasing numbers of anti-coup activists are
resorting to using weapons,”  Robert Powell , an analyst at the
Economist Intelligence Unit, said in an e-mail.  Egypt’s benchmark Eurobonds slumped for a third day,
pushing the yield up 16 basis points to 9.17 percent.  The Brotherhood said its protests would be peaceful, after
a series of attacks on state offices yesterday. State television
showed pictures of armed men it said were connected to the
Brotherhood crossing a bridge over the Nile in Cairo and
shooting at surrounding homes. Police later fired tear gas on
the bridge.  “Our rejection of the regime and our attempts to remove it
is an Islamic, national and moral duty that we cannot give up,”
the Brotherhood said, according to Ahram Gate.  Security forces killed three “terrorists” today and
wounded 60, repelling an attempt by members of the Muslim
Brotherhood to storm a police station in the Suez canal city of
Port Said, the Ministry of Interior said in an e-mailed
statement.  Saudi Support  Saudi  King Abdullah  said his country supports Egypt’s fight
against “terror.”  “Anyone who interferes in Egypt’s internal affairs is
instigating strife and sedition and supporting the terrorism
they claim they are fighting,” he said in statement read out on
Al Arabiya television.  President  Barack Obama  said he called off a joint military
exercise with Egypt scheduled next month, and warned that
Egypt’s military-backed government has embarked on a “dangerous
path.” He stopped short of cutting off the $1.3 billion in aid
that the U.S. provides to the Egyptian army, its decades-old
ally.  The  United Nations Security Council  met to discuss the
killings, and  called  for restraint. The French and German
leaders called today for an end to violence in Egypt, and said
European Union foreign ministers should meet to co-ordinate a
response.  Violence flared up again yesterday after an overnight
curfew in major cities that will be renewed every night for at
least a month, according to officials. Mursi supporters attacked
a government building in Giza, outside central Cairo, setting it
on fire. Several soldiers and police officers have been killed
in the Sinai in the past two days.  Dozens of churches were burned down or came under attack.
Islamists have blamed  Egypt ’s Christian minority for supporting
Mursi’s overthrow. The Brotherhood denied it was responsible.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Salma El Wardany in Cairo at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net ;
Zainab Fattah in Dubai at 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  