-- Australia Gives Toomua Rugby Debut Against McCaw-Led All Blacks
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-08-15T06:52:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/wallabies-pick-toomua-for-test-rugby-debut-against-all-blacks.html
Australia picked Matt Toomua to make
his Test debut at fly-half in this weekend’s Rugby Championship
opener against New Zealand, which recalled captain Richie McCaw
following his sabbatical.  Toomua, 23, was chosen to start at playmaker ahead of  Quade
Cooper , who was named on the bench along with rookies Scott Sio,
Scott Fardy, Nic White and Tevita Kuridrani. Ten of the 23-man
squad were drawn from the ACT Brumbies team that reached this
month’s Super Rugby final.  “In the end it’s reward for performance,” Wallabies coach
Ewen McKenzie said today at a news conference. “Matt has played
good football all year. He’s been the man for all occasions.
He’s got all the facets of the game covered.”  The match at Sydney’s ANZ Stadium in two days is
Australia’s first since McKenzie replaced  Robbie Deans  following
the 2-1 series loss to the British and Irish Lions. The revamped
lineup featured eight starting changes to the Wallabies team
that lost the deciding Test against the Lions.  As well as picking Toomua, full-back Jesse Mogg and
forwards James Slipper,  Rob Simmons , Hugh McMeniman and Michael
Hooper, McKenzie shifted Ben Mowen to No. 8 and  James O’Connor 
to the wing as Australia begins its bid to wrest back the
Bledisloe Cup from New Zealand for the first time since 2002.  The Cup will be contested over three Tests this year,
including the teams’ matchups in the southern hemisphere
championship which also features South Africa and Argentina.  “We’re well set up,” McKenzie added. “We’ve got a
mixture of experience and youth and a bunch of guys who’ve
played recently. There’s a whole lot of things there which
should help us be very competitive.”  Experienced All Blacks  World champion New Zealand, which completed a six-game
sweep in winning the inaugural Rugby Championship last year,
earlier named center Ryan Crotty as the only uncapped player in
a 23-man squad with a total of 874 Test appearances.  “With the changing of the guard in the Australian coaching
group, it adds a little bit of the unexpected to the
challenge,” All Blacks coach  Steve Hansen  said. “We need to be
ready for anything they chuck at us.”  Openside flanker McCaw was selected for his first Test
since December after taking a six-month break. His fellow back-rower Liam Messam was ruled out after straining his hamstring
during training today and was replaced by Steven Luatua at
blindside flanker.  AUSTRALIA: Jesse Mogg, Israel Folau, Adam Ashley-Cooper,
Christian Leali’ifano, James O’Connor, Matt Toomua, Will Genia,
Ben Mowen, Michael Hooper, Hugh McMeniman,  James Horwill 
(captain), Rob Simmons, Ben Alexander, Stephen Moore, James
Slipper.  Reserves: Saia Fainga’a, Scott Sio, Sekope Kepu, Scott
Fardy, Liam Gill, Nic White, Quade Cooper, Tevita Kuridrani.  NEW ZEALAND: Israel Dagg, Ben Smith, Conrad Smith, Ma’a
Nonu, Julian Savea, Aaron Cruden,  Aaron Smith , Kieran Read,
 Richie McCaw  (captain), Steven Luatua, Samuel Whitelock, Luke
Romano, Owen Franks, Andrew Hore, Tony Woodcock.  Reserves: Ryan Crotty, Beauden Barrett, Tawera Kerr-Barlow,
Sam Cane, Brodie Retallick, Charlie Faumuina,  Ben Franks ,  Keven
Mealamu .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  