-- Washington Post Says Site Hacked by Syrian Electronic Army
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2013-08-15T17:15:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/washington-post-says-website-hacked-by-syrian-electronic-army.html
The  Washington  Post’s website was
hacked, sending some users who tried to access its stories to a
Syrian hacker site.  The readers were redirected to the page of the Syrian
Electronic Army, a group that backs Syrian President Bashar al-Assad, the Post said in an online  note  today. The publisher said
it fixed the site after it had been compromised for about 30
minutes this morning.  The hacker group gained access to a staff writer’s computer
account after a series of sophisticated phishing attempts,
Managing Editor Emilio Garcia-Ruiz said via e-mail. Phishing is
a method of prompting a person to enter a username and password
by presenting a fake login page.  The attack resulted in some readers being redirected to the
SEA’s website, according to Garcia-Ruiz. “We have taken
defensive measures and removed the offending module. At this
time, we believe there are no other issues affecting the site,”
he said.  The Post is at least the fourth news organization that has
been targeted by the Syrian Electronic Army this year. In April,
the group claimed credit for infiltrating the Associated Press
Twitter account and posted an erroneous message saying the White
House had been bombed, sending markets down 1 percent in a
matter of seconds. The group has also hacked the Financial Times
and ITV, the U.K.’s biggest commercial TV station.  Bezos Sale  The Graham family, which controls Washington Post Co.,
agreed this month to sell the newspaper to billionaire  Jeff Bezos , founder of Amazon.com Inc., for $250 million. The family
had sought an owner with large resources who could fund the
money-losing newspaper going forward.  Bezos, who acquired the paper as an individual, said in a
statement at the time that he understands “the critical role
the Post plays in Washington, D.C., and our nation.” The
newspaper is the largest published in the U.S. capital and
closely read in political circles.  Washington Post Co. retains other assets such as the Kaplan
education business and plans to change its name after selling
the newspaper.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in  New York  at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net  