-- Wimbledon Champ Bartoli Retires From Tennis Citing Injury Toll
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-08-15T05:00:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/wimbledon-champion-bartoli-says-she-s-retiring-from-tennis.html
Wimbledon champion  Marion Bartoli 
quit professional tennis less than six weeks after winning her
first Grand Slam title and 12 days before the U.S. Open starts.  Bartoli, 28, made the surprise announcement last night
after losing 3-6, 6-4, 6-1 to Simona Halep at the Western &
Southern Open in Cincinnati, saying injuries during her career
and this season in particular had left her unable to continue.  “My body just can’t do it anymore,” Bartoli said in news
conference comments posted on the Women’s Tennis Association’s
website. “I’ve already been through a lot of injuries since the
beginning of the year. I have pain everywhere after 45 minutes
or an hour of play.”  Bartoli of  France  won her first major championship last
month as the No. 15 seed by beating Sabine Lisicki of  Germany  at
the All England Club in  London . Her victory at Wimbledon
followed months of struggling with illness and injury.  “I didn’t make this decision easily,” Bartoli said of her
retirement. “I’ve been a tennis player for a long time, and I
had the chance to make my biggest dream a reality. I felt I
really, really pushed through the ultimate limits to make it
happen. But now I just can’t do it anymore.”  In March, she quit a tournament in Miami with a left foot
injury, and withdrew from  Rome  a month later with a right ankle
ailment. The joint still bothered her during the French Open,
where she lost in the third round. In June, she withdrew from
Birmingham and won one match in Eastbourne,  England , before
pulling out because of a viral illness.  At last week’s Rogers Cup in Toronto, she quit her round-of-16 match against Slovakia’s Magdalena Rybarikova citing an
abdominal injury.  Unorthodox Technique  Bartoli won eight singles titles and reached a career-high
ranking of seven. On July 6, she became the first woman to win
Wimbledon since the sport turned professional in 1968 by playing
double-handed shots on both forehand and backhand, fulfilling
what she said had been a lifelong dream.  Introduced to tennis at age six by her father Walter, a
doctor, Bartoli modeled her technique on that of her idol  Monica Seles , who won nine major singles championships.  WTA Chief Executive Officer  Stacey Allaster  described
Bartoli as “an inspirational champion and a great ambassador”
for women’s tennis.  “Fans and everyone at the WTA will miss Marion’s energy
and passion for our sport,” Allaster said in a statement. “I
am so proud of her for who she is, her values, and for fighting
to realize her dream of winning Wimbledon.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  