-- WTI Oil Trades Near Two-Week High Amid Unrest in Egypt
-- B y   K o n s t a n t i n   R o z h n o v   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2013-08-16T12:57:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/wti-crude-trades-near-two-week-high-on-egypt-disruption-concern.html
West Texas Intermediate crude traded
near the highest price in two weeks as an escalating conflict in
Egypt fanned concern that oil shipments through the country may
be disrupted.  Futures were little changed after rising for a fifth day
yesterday, capping the longest stretch of gains since April.
Thousands of Egyptians poured into the streets after Friday
prayers to protest the killing of supporters of ousted President
Mohamed Mursi. A weather system heading for the  Gulf of Mexico 
has a 50 percent chance of becoming a tropical cyclone in the
next two days. Crude and fuel export terminals in Libya remain
closed, while  Iraq ’s oil ministry said the nation plans to
increase exports in September.  “The market isn’t sure of future direction and is looking
at the news on balance,” Ole Hansen, the head of commodity
strategy at Saxo Bank A/S in Copenhagen, said by phone. “The
market is now better prepared for disruptions than before, as we
see more supply elsewhere.”  WTI for September delivery was at $107.50 a barrel in
electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , up 17
cents as of 1:36 p.m. London time. The volume of all futures
traded was 35 percent below the 100-day average. The contract
ended yesterday’s session at $107.33, the highest close since
Aug. 1. Prices have advanced 1.4 percent this week.  Brent for October settlement increased 35 cents to $109.95
a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
September contract expired yesterday after climbing 91 cents to
$111.11, the highest since March 7. The front-month European
benchmark crude was at a premium of $2.68 to WTI. The spread
widened for a fourth day yesterday to $3.78.  Egypt Unrest  The demonstrations in Cairo called by the Muslim
Brotherhood were converging on Ramsis Square, while rallies
started in the provinces of Alexandria and Gharbia, where police
fired tear gas at protesters, footage broadcast by Al Jazeera
television showed. The death toll from two days of violence is
rising toward 600.  Egypt controls the  Suez Canal  and the Suez-Mediterranean
Pipeline, through which a combined 4.51 million barrels a day of
crude and refined products were shipped between the Red Sea and
the Mediterranean in 2012, according to the Energy Information
Administration.  Traffic through the canal hasn’t been affected by the
unrest, Sheila Armstrong, a Galashiels, Scotland-based
spokeswoman for port agent  Inchcape Shipping Services , said by
phone today.  Iraq plans to boost shipments in September compared with
the previous two months,  Asim Jihad , an oil ministry spokesman,
said by phone from  Baghdad . The country exported 2.324 million
barrels a day of crude in July, he said Aug. 7.  Yucatan Peninsula  The U.S. National Hurricane Center was tracking the weather
system over  Mexico ’s Yucatan Peninsula.  Enbridge Inc. (ENB) ’s Manta Ray offshore natural gas gathering
company evacuated non-essential personnel from two platforms off
the coast of Louisiana on Aug. 14 as the weather system crossed
land.  Marathon Oil Corp. (MRO)  also cleared out some workers from its
Ewing Bank facility in the Gulf of Mexico.  BP Plc (BP/)  began removing non-essential personnel from four
offshore platforms as drilling rigs contracted by the company
halted operations. Production “remains online,” according to a
statement on its website.  The Gulf is home to about 6 percent of U.S. natural gas
output, 23 percent of oil production and more than 45 percent of
refining capacity, according to the U.S. Energy Department.  WTI surged 8.8 percent in July, the most since August last
year, as Egypt’s army deposed Mohamed Mursi as president. The
 Middle East  accounted for 35 percent of global oil output in the
first quarter, International Energy Agency data show.  Futures will probably decline next week on concern that the
 Federal Reserve  will pare stimulus measures amid signs of
economic growth, according to a Bloomberg News survey of
analysts and traders.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Konstantin Rozhnov in London at 
 krozhnov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  