-- Hybrid Bond Gamble Pays Off as Stimulus Spurs Gains
-- B y   H a n n a h   B e n j a m i n
-- 2013-08-16T08:00:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/hybrid-bond-gamble-pays-off-as-stimulus-spurs-gains.html
Investors who bought record amounts
of hybrid notes from European companies seeking to protect
credit ratings as they increased debt are being rewarded with
gains outstripping both junk and investment-grade bonds.  About 75 percent of the 29 billion euros ($39 billion) of
hybrid securities sold this year are trading above their issue
price, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, beating the 67
percent of equivalent junk debt and 39 percent of high-grade new
issues.  Storebrand ASA (STB) ’s notes due April 2043 lead increases
with a 7.8 percent jump, followed by French utilities GDF Suez
and Electricite de France SA with more than 5 percent gains.  Demand for the securities, which Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc says pay as much as 3 percentage points more yield
than senior debt, was boosted after European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  pledged to keep  interest rates  at a
record low for an “extended period.” The junior notes
typically allow companies to borrow without damaging credit
grades because ratings firms count 50 percent of the bonds as
equity, reducing their assessment of an issuer’s indebtedness.  “Investors in solid investment-grade names like hybrids
because they can get bigger yields from them than the companies’
senior bonds,” said Andrei Pashko, a Frankfurt-based portfolio
manager at Deka Investment GmbH, who oversees about 100 million
euros of hybrid bonds.  Capital Cushions  Hybrids are usually sold by banks to bolster capital
cushions against losses and benefit non-financial companies that
need to make capital investments, such as utilities.  Buyers
like the securities, which absorb losses before senior notes are
impaired, because they typically allow them to get bigger coupon
payments without having to buy the debt of lower-rated companies
which stand more chance of defaulting.  GDF, the operator of  Europe ’s biggest natural-gas network,
 cut leverage  to 2.3 times debt to earnings in the first half of
the year from 2.5 times at the end of 2012. When the company
sold 1.7 billion euros of hybrid notes last month it  said  in a
statement that the securities will help strengthen its financial
structure and improve financial flexibility.  “Hybrids have successfully contained leverage as
conditions in Europe have become challenging,” said Haroon Hassan, an analyst at Mitsubishi UFJ Securities International
Plc in  London .  French Utilities  French  utility companies  dominated European hybrid sales,
pricing around a third of deals denominated in euros, pounds and
dollars, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Issuance has
surpassed the total 28 billion euros raised in 2012 and 2011
combined, when the securities’ popularity waned in the wake of
the region’s debt crisis.  EDF, Europe’s biggest power generator, is the biggest
seller of the securities, pricing almost 4 billion euros of the
bonds on Jan. 22 followed by a $3 billion sale two days later.
More companies will try to be innovative with their funding
structures, according to the company’s Paris-based Head of
Finance and Investments Stephane Tortajada.  “Companies seem to be thinking more about their  capital
structure  these days, in the way that banks already have multi
layers of capital,” he said in a Feb. 22 interview.  Enel SpA (ENEL) ,  Italy ’s largest utility, plans to sell 5 billion
euros of the bonds over two years to bolster its finances. Chief
Executive Officer  Fulvio Conti  put the deal on hold in June when
there was a credit market sell-off amid concern U.S. stimulus
measures would be eased, although he said the Rome-based company
would press ahead with the issue when conditions improved.  European Risk  “The performance reflects investors being prepared to take
European risk,” said Martin Reeves, head of high yield at Legal
& General Invest Management, which oversees about $2.45 billion
of junk debt. “High-grade investors feel comfortable owing the
hybrid if they know the name; if they want risk, the bonds do
well, but if they’re risk-off then the bonds will perform
badly.”  The decision by Moody’s Investors Service to change the way
it assesses the debt and equity treatment of hybrid notes sold
by junk companies will have little impact on the market,
according to Oliver Krenn at Deutsche Asset Management in
 Frankfurt . Instead of treating the securities as a blend of
equity and debt, the ratings firm will now class hybrids issued
by speculative-grade firms as either entirely debt or equity.  Just two of the 45 issues from western European companies
this year were from sub-investment grade borrowers. Junk debt is
ranked below Baa3 by Moody’s and BBB- by  Fitch Ratings  and
 Standard & Poor’s .  Methodology Change  “I don’t think Moody’s methodology change will have a big
impact as it doesn’t affect the recently-issued investment-grade
hybrids,” said Krenn, who helps manage about 1.5 billion euros
of corporate credit including hybrid bonds.  BNP Paribas SA is the biggest underwriter of hybrid sales
from European companies this year, managing just over 11 percent
of deals including  GDF Suez (GSZ) ’s three-part deal, Bloomberg data
show. HSBC Holdings Plc arranged 9.3 percent of deals, followed
by Deutsche Bank with an 8.6 percent share.  “The low rates and easing policy environment in Europe
versus tapering risk in the U.S. will continue to favor European
credit,” said  Alberto Gallo , head of European macro credit
research at RBS.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hannah Benjamin in London at 
 hbenjamin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  