-- Zurich Insurance Profit Drops on Natural Disaster Losses
-- B y   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l
-- 2013-08-15T07:37:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/zurich-insurance-profit-drops-on-natural-disaster-losses.html
Zurich Insurance Group AG (ZURN) , the
biggest Swiss insurer, said the target for its general insurance
business was “challenging” after natural catastrophe losses
cut second-quarter profit by 27 percent.  Net income dropped to $789 million from $1.09 billion a
year ago, the Zurich-based company said in a statement today.
That missed the $823.8 million average estimate of five analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. The shares fell the most in three months.  Zurich Insurance said operating profit declined 18 percent
after floods in central  Europe  in May and June cost about $140
million, while tornadoes in the U.S. produced claims of $52
million. Low interest rates cut investment income and Chief
Executive Officer Martin Senn said targets for the company’s
general insurance unit and its Farmers business in the U.S.
“remain more challenging” than those for other operations.  “Overall it was a difficult quarter for Zurich, and
slightly disappointing because of the investment income in
general insurance and the impact of catastrophes at Farmers
Re,” said Daniel Bischof, a Zurich-based analyst with Helvea SA
who has a neutral recommendation on the stock. “There is no
threat to the dividend though, and there were strong price
increases in general insurance, which could offset some of the
negative news in that unit.”  Price Increases  Zurich Insurance fell as much as 3.6 percent and was down
3.5 percent at 243.40 francs as of 9:30 a.m. in Swiss trading.
The stock has declined 0.1% this year compared with an 18
percent increase for the 30-company Bloomberg Europe 500
Insurance Index.  The insurer pushed through price increases of 3 percent in
personal lines, which includes home and car insurance, while the
price of policies sold to businesses rose 5 percent in the
second quarter. In Europe, some price increases resulted in a
decline in gross written premiums, Chief Financial Officer
Pierre Wauthier said during a conference call.  Allianz SE (ALV) , Europe’s biggest insurer, shrugged off flood
losses of about 330 million euros ($439 million) to report
higher second-quarter profit last week as earnings increased at
its non-life and asset management units.  Zurich Insurance’s combined ratio -- spending on claims and
costs as a percentage of premiums -- worsened to 96.2 percent in
the quarter from 95.1 percent in the year-earlier period. The
company wants to improve the ratio by as much as 4 percentage
points compared with its peers by the end of this year.  Challenging Targets  Zurich Insurance will give an update on its business
targets at the end of the year, Senn said on a conference call,
while declining to elaborate. The company’s Farmers unit saw its
second-quarter operating loss narrow to $73 million, from $128
million a year earlier.  “We delivered these results in a period characterized by
natural catastrophes and large weather-related events, including
severe flooding in eastern and central Europe, tornadoes in
 Oklahoma  as well an unusual number of mid-sized, weather-related
events in the U.S.,  Canada  and Europe,” Senn said in the
statement. “The economic environment remains challenging with
continued low  interest rates  exerting pressure on our investment
income.”  The insurer reported a business operating profit after-tax
return on equity of 8.8 percent in the quarter, down from 11.2
percent a year earlier. Zurich Insurance has a long-term target
of 16 percent.  Investments lost 0.9 percent of their value in the second
quarter as the insurer booked a $58 million of impairments on
its equity and debt holdings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carolyn Bandel in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  