-- 32,000-Year-Old Plant Reborn From Ancient Fruit Found in Siberian Ice
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2012-02-20T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/32-000-year-old-plant-reborn-from-ancient-fruit-found-in-siberian-ice.html
Researchers in  Russia  have revived 
a fertile plant from the remains of 32,000-year-old fruit that
was found buried within the fossilized burrows of ancient 
squirrels deep in the Siberian ice.  The resurrected plant, from an era of woolly mammoths and
saber-tooth cats, is the oldest viable multicellular living
organism, according to the study published today in the
 Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences . It is also the
first plant returned to life from permafrost conditions,
researchers said.  The discovery raises the possibility of reviving other
frozen organisms with prehistoric gene pools, researchers said.
Using a horticulture technique called  micropropagation ,
researchers grew the plant from fruit tissue in a test tube of
nutrients. The ones that grew roots were transferred into pots
with soil and light, where they developed flowers and seeds.  “There is abundant permafrost in northern  Alaska  and
 Canada ,” said Buford Price, a professor at the  University of
California , Berkeley, who edited the paper, in an e-mail.
Finding an organism that could produce a plant with dark green
leaves and small white flowers shows the benefit of pursuing
goals that seem impossible, he said.  Price said he expects the researchers to “get increased
funding levels to expand this work, going deeper and looking at
other likely locations of animal burrows where plants were
stashed.”  The fruit was found preserved 124 feet (38 meters) deep in
permafrost, ice at below-freezing temperatures that hadn’t
melted or been disturbed since the late  Pleistocene epoch . The
ancient burrows can store as many as 800,000 seeds, the report
said.  Permafrost covers about 20 percent of the earth’s surface
and is now under extensive investigation for preserved life that
could be revived, according to the researchers led by David
Gilichinsky at the Institutes of Cell Biophysics and
Physicochemical and Biological Problems in Soil Science at the
Russian Academy of Sciences, in Pushchino, Russia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  