-- Abraaj Buys Aureos Capital to Expand in Asia, Latin America
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2012-02-20T17:02:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/abraaj-buys-aureos-capital-to-expand-in-asia-latin-america-1-.html
Abraaj Capital Ltd., the  Middle
East ’s biggest private equity firm, agreed to buy Aureos Capital
Ltd. to expand its investments in small and medium-sized
companies in  Africa  and  Latin America .  The combined firm will oversee $7.5 billion and 153
investments across more than 30 countries in  emerging markets ,
Abraaj Chief Executive Officer Mustafa Abdel Wadood told a news
conference in Dubai today. He declined to say how much the firm
paid for London-based Aureos.  Abraaj, started in Dubai a decade ago, has been seeking to
expand outside the Middle East to Asia and Africa as the
financial crisis crimped growth in the Emirate. The firm set up
the $650 million Riyada Enterprise Development fund in 2009 to
buy stakes in small and medium-sized companies in the Middle
East, Africa,  Turkey  and Pakistan. The firm also bought a North
African private-equity fund from Amundi, the asset manager owned
by Societe Generale SA and  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) , in August.  “The deal underlies the criticality of investing into
emerging markets, and the opportunity,” Abraaj founder Arif Naqvi said in a Bloomberg Television interview today. “The fact
that there are 1.2 billion people in emerging markets that are
from the middle class and that’s more than the entire population
of the OECD.”  CDC Group  The takeover, which is still subject to regulatory
approval, is expected to close this quarter, Abraaj said. The
company will use the Aureos brand for its small and medium-
enterprise investments, Abdel-Wadood said. The firm says such
investments range from $500,000 to $15 million.  Aureos, which invests in small to mid-cap businesses, was
spun off in 2001 from London-based CDC Group Plc, the British
government’s former Colonial Development Corp. It has $1.3
billion assets under management and a presence in 20 countries
including  China , with Costa Rica,  Singapore  and Kenya serving as
regional hubs.  In 2009, Abraaj looked to buy London-based buyout fund
manager Candover Partners Ltd. “in a purely opportunistic way”
to expand in  Europe , after the British firm’s owner defaulted on
a 1 billion euro commitment, Naqvi said in an interview today in
 London . Abraaj, which is currently investing its latest $2
billion buyout fund, realized that year that its DNA was rather
in emerging markets, Naqvi said. Now, after the Amundi and
Aureos acquisitions, it intends to pause, he said.  “We are an emerging markets-firm, so for us the most
important thing is to continue to expand our geography. This
transaction has given us completeness in the small and medium
enterprise segment,” Naqvi said. “On the buyout side, we’re
completely confident investing our own funds. We don’t need to
buy anything.”  Abraaj’s founder said he doesn’t have any immediate plan to
list his firm. “That’s not what we’re not thinking of, but
every private equity firm thinks about it at some point,” he
said in the Bloomberg Television interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  