-- Abu Dhabi Stocks Head for 4-Month High on Earnings Optimism, Oil
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2012-02-20T07:58:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/abu-dhabi-stocks-head-for-4-month-high-on-earnings-optimism-oil.html
Abu Dhabi  stocks headed for the
highest close in almost four months on bets the emirate’s
biggest developers, which reported improved earnings, will
benefit from infrastructure spending. Oil rose for a fourth day.  Aldar Properties PJSC (ALDAR) , Abu Dhabi’s biggest property
developer whose 2011 profit beat estimates, gained 2.9 percent.
 Sorouh Real Estate Co. (SOROUH) , the emirate’s second-largest developer,
headed for the highest close in almost five months. Abu Dhabi’s
 ADX General Index (ADSMI)  rose 0.2 percent to 2,494.07 at 11:15 a.m. in
the emirate, set for the highest close since Nov. 1. The
 Bloomberg GCC 200 Index (BGCC200)  was little changed.  “Recent news on the real estate sector, including progress
on Aldar and the commitment of the  United Arab Emirates  to some
key projects, provided a rebound,” said Ahmed Talhaoui, the Abu
Dhabi-based head of investment and asset management at Royal
Capital PJSC.  Abu Dhabi, the oil-rich emirate transforming itself into a
business and cultural hub, plans to resume projects including
branches of the Louvre and Guggenheim museums after reviewing
their viability, the government said in January. Aldar, which
obtained 16.8 billion dirhams ($4.6 billion) from Abu Dhabi’s
government by selling assets in December, last week surpassed
 analysts’ earnings estimates  after sales of more land and
properties to the state helped  full-year profit .  Sorouh said on Feb. 15  2011 profit  surged to 334.7 million
dirhams from 7.44 million dirhams as income from rentals and
housing projects rose. Aldar shares climbed to 1.07 dirhams,
headed for the highest close since Oct. 30. Sorouh advanced 2.9
percent to 1.07 dirhams, poised for the highest close since Oct.
2.  Oil Advances  Real-estate prices have fallen more than 60 percent in
Dubai and 45 percent in Abu Dhabi from 2008 peaks after the
global credit crisis caused banks to curtail lending and
speculators left the market. Developers completing contracts are
supplying thousands of homes and offices at a time when demand
is dropping.  Oil for March delivery advanced as much as 1.9 percent to
$105.21 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange  after Iran said it halted some crude exports
and investors bet fuel demand will increase as Europe moves
closer to bailing out Greece. The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF) 
rose 0.3 percent after China cut reserve requirements for banks
to fuel lending and buoy economic growth, boosting demand for
riskier assets.  Dubai’s  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  fell from an eight-month high on
investor speculation yesterday’s gain may have been overdone
after the gauge rose 21 percent from this year’s low in January,
entering a bull market. The measure’s 14-day  relative strength
index  rose to 79 yesterday. A reading above 70 indicates to some
investors that the benchmark is poised to decline.  Oman’s benchmark stock  index  and Kuwait’s  gauge  advanced
0.2 percent and Qatar’s  QE Index (DSM)  gained 0.1 percent. Bahrain’s
 measure  climbed 0.7 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  