-- Adidas CEO Says Lin Jerseys Ready for Sale in China Within Days
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-20T09:20:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/adidas-ceo-says-lin-jerseys-ready-for-sale-in-china-within-days.html
Adidas AG (ADS) , the exclusive maker of
National Basketball Association uniforms, will have jerseys
modeled on those worn by New York Knick guard Jeremy Lin ready
for sale in  China  in “the next couple of days.”  “We are quite happy that we are the partner of the NBA for
several years now,” Chief Executive Officer Herbert Hainer
said. said in an interview today in  Shanghai . “This is what we
all like in sports -- young people coming up and playing
fantastic.” Hainer declined to comment on whether Adidas will
try and sign Lin to a sponsorship agreement.  Lin rose from bench-warmer to stardom this month, leading
the Knicks to their eighth win in nine games yesterday and
igniting a fan frenzy dubbed “Linsanity.” That’s made the
Harvard graduate’s number 17 jersey the best-selling on the
NBA’s online store.  “Jeremy Lin would be attractive to consumer brands aimed
at younger clients” including those selling sports apparel and
beverages, said Chris Reitermann, Asia Pacific president for
Ogilvy & Mather Advertising. Lin could make from $1 million to
$10 million per sponsorship, Reitermann said by telephone. The
$10 million level would be “difficult,” he said.  NBA players that currently have sponsorship agreements with
Adidas include  Derrick Rose ,  Dwight Howard  and  Josh Smith .  Lin’s popularity surged after he entered a Feb. 4 game
against the  New Jersey Nets  and helped the Knicks to a win by
scoring 25 points off the bench. He started the next eight
games, including scoring 38 points in a victory over the  Los
Angeles Lakers  and posting 14 assists yesterday in a win over
the defending NBA champion Dallas Mavericks.  “Will he become a superstar? We don’t know,” Hainer said.
“We are absolutely happy with our portfolio,” he said of
Adidas’s sponsorship agreements. “But Jeremy Lin definitely has
the potential.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Wei in Shanghai at 
 mwei13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  