-- Ageas Keeps Dividend, Seeks Corporate Loans to Boost Yield
-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 2012-02-20T11:53:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/ageas-keeps-dividend-seeks-corporate-loans-to-boost-yield-1-.html
Ageas (AGS) , the majority owner of
 Belgium ’s biggest life insurer, maintained its dividend after
writedowns of Greek bonds and a decline in equity markets wiped
out insurance profit last year.  The  loss  from insurance operations was 104.4 million euros
($138.5 million) in the fourth quarter compared with profit of
57.6 million euros a year earlier, Ageas, based in Brussels and
the Dutch city of Utrecht, said today in a statement. The loss
included an additional 125 million-euro value reduction of Greek
bonds and impairments of the equity portfolio, mainly in  Asia ,
and of goodwill in  Hong Kong .  Ageas faced a 0.6 percent decline in funds under management
last year, not taking into account  disposals , as its life
business had to compete with banks seeking to attract more
deposits amid tightening credit markets. The insurer also risks
lower investment yields after reducing its holdings of Italian
and Spanish government bonds and said it plans to start buying
as much as 3 billion euros of corporate loans from banks.  “We are actively working with the banks to take part of
their portfolio of loans under certain conditions,” Chief
Financial Officer Christophe Boizard told analysts and investors
on a conference call today. “It’s an attractive way of
increasing the yields of the portfolio.”  Asset Allocation  Boizard said Ageas seeks to allocate 5 percent of its
investment assets to corporate loans and is also considering
stepping up purchases of equities this year.  Government bonds 
currently account for 53 percent of its investments and
corporate bonds for an additional 36 percent.  Ageas had paper profits on the fixed-income securities of
about 600 million euros on Dec. 31, a decrease from 1.4 billion
euros at the end of September. Its equity investments were
almost breaking even.  The insurer no longer discloses unrealized gains or losses
on 4.37 billion euros of  Belgian government bonds , which are no
longer classified as assets held for sale. Ageas earlier shifted
494 million euros of Portuguese debt to bonds that are held to
maturity.  Ageas declined as much as 2 percent on Euronext Brussels
and  traded  1.8 cents lower at 1.696 euros by 12:45 p.m. local
time. The shares have gained 41 percent since the start of the
year, the  best performance  among the 32 companies in the Stoxx
600 Insurance Index.  Investment Margin  The insurer had an investment margin of about 90 basis
points in its Belgian life-insurance business last year and is
pricing its guaranteed products to keep that margin stable this
year, Chief Executive Officer Bart De Smet said on today’s call.
He had previously set a target for a margin of about 100 basis
points.  Shareholders will receive an  unchanged dividend  of 8 cents
a share following approval at the annual meetings to be held in
Brussels and Utrecht at the end of April.  Ageas will have 1.1 billion euros of cash left after the
distribution and its top spending priorities are business
investment, shareholder distributions and debt buybacks, in that
order of importance, De Smet said on today’s call.  Shareholders’ equity  increased to 3.23 euros a share on
Dec. 31 from 3.15 euros at the end of the third quarter,
reflecting a lower share count following  stock buybacks . Ageas
completed a 250 million-euro stock buyback on Jan. 25 and plans
to cancel the shares it acquired.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  