-- Thai GDP Shrinks 9% Amid Floods in Fourth Quarter, Almost Twice Estimates
-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 2012-02-20T04:51:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/thai-gdp-shrinks-9-amid-floods-in-fourth-quarter-almost-twice-estimates.html
Thailand ’s economy shrank more than
economists estimated as the worst floods in almost 70 years
disrupted output by manufacturers from Western Digital Corp. to
Honda Motor Co., putting pressure on policy makers to aid growth.  Gross domestic product declined 9 percent in the three
months through December from a year earlier, after climbing a
revised 3.7 percent the previous quarter, the National Economic
and Social Development Board said in Bangkok today. The median
of 14 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey was for a 5 percent
drop. The economy grew 0.1 percent in 2011.  Southeast Asia ’s second-largest economy contracted for the
first time since 2009 after floods that killed more than 700
people and inundated two-thirds of the country dented exports
already hurt by weaker European demand. Prime Minister Yingluck
Shinawatra has pledged to spend 350 billion baht ($11 billion)
on infrastructure and the  Bank of Thailand  cut the  benchmark
interest rate  for a second straight meeting in January.  “Risks to growth in the first half of this year could
remain on the downside,”  Usara Wilaipich , a Bangkok-based
economist at Standard Chartered Plc and a former country
economist at the  World Bank , said in an interview today. “We
expect to see recovery in 2012 driven by domestic demand, while
recovery in manufacturing and exports will take some time. There
is still some room for the BOT to cut rates.”  The baht gained 0.1 percent to 30.76 against the dollar at
11:20 a.m. in Bangkok after reaching a three-month high of 30.64
earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The benchmark
SET Index of stocks rose 0.4 percent.  ‘Rebound Strongly’  Thailand’s GDP fell 10.7 percent last quarter from three
months earlier, compared with a revised 0.8 percent rise in the
previous period, today’s report showed.  “The economy this year will rebound strongly,” boosted by
private and government spending, the economic board’s Secretary-
General Arkhom Termpittayapaisith told a news conference today.
First-quarter GDP growth will be “slightly positive,” and the
pace will “gain more momentum” from the second quarter onward,
he said, adding that 7 percent growth this year is “possible.”  The board forecasts growth of 5.5 percent to 6.5 percent
this year, compared with a previous estimate of 4.5 percent to
5.5 percent. The economy’s expansion in 2011 was less than an
earlier government estimate of a 1.5 percent gain.  China’s Move  The central bank said this month risks posed by the
worsening global outlook and the impact of last year’s floods
were greater than the threat of inflation. Weakening demand for
the region’s goods has prompted policy makers from  Indonesia  to
the  Philippines  to cut borrowing costs and support growth.  China cut banks’ reserve requirements for the second time
in three months on Feb. 18 as  Europe ’s debt crisis and a cooling
property market threaten economic growth.  The Bank of Thailand may consider cutting rates if
inflation “continues to surprise on the downside,” said
Wilaipich, adding she expected a “wait-and-see approach” at
the next policy meeting in March.  Thai inflation slowed for the second consecutive month in
January. While  consumer confidence  has gained since November,
political uncertainty and rising energy costs are undermining
sentiment, and economic recovery remains fragile, the University
of the Thai Chamber of Commerce said Feb. 9.  Faltering Demand  The country’s  manufacturing index  fell for the fourth
consecutive month and  exports  dropped for a second month in
December after floods disrupted production, prompting
manufacturers including Honda, Toshiba Corp. and Fujitsu Ltd. to
cut their profit forecasts last month. Zurich Financial Services
AG said last week its fourth-quarter profit fell 46 percent
after losses from the floods and other natural disasters.  The Ministry of Commerce has targeted a 15 percent increase
in exports this year, compared with a 17.2 percent gain in 2011.
Overseas sales may cease their decline in January, according to
a  Bloomberg News survey . The data is due this week.  “Exports will continue to improve as plants resume
production,” Kampon Adireksombat, an economist at Tisco
Securities Co., said before the report. “Still, we need to
accept the truth that the growth this year can’t be as high as
two years ago because of faltering global demand.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 Suttinee1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tony Jordan at 
 tjordan3@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  