-- Alfa’s Altimo Says It Could Seize Cukurova Stake in Turkcell
-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y
-- 2012-02-20T15:10:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/alfa-s-altimo-says-it-could-seize-cukurova-stake-in-turkcell.html
Altimo, the indirect owner of 13.2
percent of  Turkcell Iletisim Hizmetleri AS (TCELL) , Turkey’s biggest
mobile-phone operator, said it may seize another 13.7 percent if
Cukurova Holding AS fails to pay $1.45 billion in debt by early
March.  The potential seizure is based on a  decision  in September
by the Eastern Caribbean Court of Appeal, said Mustafa Kiral,
vice president for mergers and acquisitions at Altimo, the
telecommunications investment firm controlled by Russian
billionaire  Mikhail Fridman ’s  Alfa Group . According to Istanbul-
based Cukurova, the court order doesn’t allow Altimo to take the
shares in dispute.  Cukurova Holding, owned by Chairman Mehmet Emin Karamehmet,
controls Turkcell Iletisim through a complex structure. Alfa and
 TeliaSonera AB (TLSN) ,  Sweden ’s largest telephone company, are fighting
Cukurova for control of the Turkish mobile operator.  Cukurova signed a $3.3 billion agreement with Altimo in
2005 to finance payment of debt owed to the Turkish government
because of its collapsed Pamukbank AS. Altimo bought an indirect
13.2 percent of Turkcell Iletisim for $1.6 billion from Cukurova
and lent it $1.7 billion after Cukurova pledged 13.7 percent of
Turkcell as collateral. Cukurova repaid $350 million and Altimo
later said Cukurova defaulted on repayments of the rest, while
Cukurova said Altimo didn’t take installments after it borrowed
$1.5 billion from international markets.  “According to the court decision, Cukurova must pay $1.45
billion to the court or may face the seizure of the Turkcell
stake to Altimo,” Kiral said in an interview. The figure
includes principal and interest, and the ruling is on appeal to
the Privy Council in  London .  Cukurova Response  Cukurova expects to pay the money owed and believes that
Moscow-based Altimo can’t seize shares in the meantime,
according to a Cukurova executive who declined to be identified.  “Cukurova was concerned to ensure that, during the appeal
process, and while ownership of the Turkcell shares is yet to be
finally determined, Alfa could not take any steps which would
have a potentially damaging or irreversible effect on those
shares,” the executive said in a statement today.  “What the Court of Appeal’s order does not do is to say
that if Cukurova does not make the payment into court, its main
appeal to the Privy Council falls away and Alfa takes ownership
of the shares in dispute,” he said. “Compliance or otherwise
with the condition to make payment into court does not affect
Cukurova’s main appeal to the Privy Council, which will continue
regardless.”  Turkcell Holding, which owns 51 percent of Turkcell
Iletisim, is 53 percent owned by Cukurova Telecom Holding, with
TeliaSonera holding the remainder. Altimo’s parent Alfa Telecom
 Turkey  Ltd. owns 49 percent of Cukurova Telecom Holding and
Cukurova Holding controls 51 percent, which is the stake Altimo
may potentially seize, Kiral said.  Turkcell shares rose 1.4 percent to 9.90 liras at 4:46 p.m.
in Istanbul trade, the highest level almost in a year.  Independent Board Members  Altimo is also seeking to increase the number of members on
the Turkcell board to 10 from seven with the addition of three
or four independent members, in line with the market regulator’s
decision, Kiral said. The capital market board required all
listed Turkish companies to have independent board members,
proportional to their free float, in December. The candidates
must be approved by the regulator.  “We want Turkcell to make decisions on expansion outside
Turkey,” he said. “With the current management structure, it
can’t do that. Turkcell can grow in the Middle Eastern and
African markets.”  Altimo wants to remain as a minority shareholder in
Turkcell, Kiral said.  Investors TeliaSonera and Altimo blocked a decision on
dividend payments in a series of shareholders’ meetings in 2011,
after failing to oust Chairman  Colin Williams  from the board.
They claimed he hampered Turkcell’s growth by favoring
Karamehmet. Williams denied the allegations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  