-- Henry Tang Vows to Stay in Hong Kong Leadership Race as Ip Joins Contest
-- B y   S o p h i e   L e u n g   a n d   M i c h e l l e   Y u n
-- 2012-02-21T10:53:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/tang-s-scandal-opens-way-for-ip-to-join-hong-kong-leader-race.html
Henry Tang  vowed to stay in the race
to be  Hong Kong ’s next leader, as a scandal over a basement
built illegally at his wife’s property drove down his popularity
and prompted lawmaker Regina Ip to join the contest.  Tang, backed by business executives, filed papers to run
yesterday after obtaining nominations from 379 representatives
on the 1,200-member election committee. Ip said she plans to
contest in the March 25 election to offer voters more choice.  The former chief secretary’s refusal to quit highlights the
growing divide between the city’s business elites and residents,
as surging  property prices  stoke discontent and an influx of
mainland visitors spurs street protests. The scandal is
threatening to derail a smooth handover from outgoing Chief
Executive Donald Tsang to a candidate backed by the Chinese
government and the richest men in Hong Kong.  “After Beijing, the business community has the largest say
and they are opting for Henry Tang because he’s one of them,”
said  Joseph Cheng , a professor in political science at the  City
University  of Hong Kong. “Public opinion is a factor, but there
are many others. A lot of people in the election committee are
waiting on Beijing’s signal.”  Since the British handover to  China  in 1997, the city of
7.1 million has picked its leader through an election committee
comprising of executives, lawmakers and representatives from
China. More than half of Hong Kong people polled by the South
China Morning Post said Tang should quit the race after he
admitted knowing about the basement that was built without
government approval.  Business Lobby  Tang, 59, has the backing of the business lobby on the
election committee, with Bank of East Asia Chairman David Li and former Hong Kong Monetary Authority Chief Executive
 Joseph Yam  supporting him. He’s also nominated by  Li Ka-shing ,
Hong Kong’s richest man, Lee Shau Kee, the chairman of
Henderson Land Development Co., and  Thomas Kwok , co-chairman of
Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd., according to the papers filed.  “I know my way of handling the illegal structure has
pulled down my popularity,” Tang told reporters today. “But I
will still go ahead because I believe my political platform
could cater to the needs of the people in Hong Kong.”  Tang already faced public dissatisfaction for being part of
a government that failed to address a 60 percent property price
surge since the start of 2009 quickly enough.  He was trailing Leung Chun-ying, a former government
adviser, in public-opinion polls before papers  including  Apple
Daily  and the  South China Morning Post , reported on the basement.
The government has started an investigation on the basement,
which the papers said contained a wine-tasting room, gym and
Japanese-style bath.  Public Anger  “His refusal to quit the race shows that he’s ignoring the
opinion of people in Hong Kong,” said Cheung Chor-yung, a
senior teaching fellow in public administration at the  City
University of Hong Kong , who is on the election committee. “How
could he govern Hong Kong? Many people may take to the streets
before he can start his term.”  The poll of 513 people commissioned by the South China
Morning Post showed 51.3 percent of respondents thought Tang
should quit, while 79.5 percent said the incident reflected
poorly on his integrity.  “As Mr. Tang continues to run for the election despite his
low popularity because of his integrity problem, I decide to
take part in the race,” Ip said at a press briefing yesterday.
“I want to offer another choice to Hong Kong people.”  Security Bureau  Ip was the first woman to run the city’s security bureau.
She left government in 2003 after 500,000 people took to
the streets protesting her attempt to introduce an anti-
subversion law in the former British colony. Jasper Tsang Yok
Sing, chairman of the Legislative Council, yesterday also said
he will decide early next week whether to run.  A separate poll by the University of Hong Kong conducted
last week showed Tang’s approval rating fell 4.8 percentage
points to 21.3 percent. Leung had the backing of 49 percent of
respondents.  The  Liberal Party  won’t vote for the former chief secretary
should he fail to win support from the public, Honorary Chairman
 James Tien  said yesterday on Commercial Radio Hong Kong.  Public anger in Hong Kong has pressured the city’s previous
leaders. Tung Chee-hwa, Hong Kong’s first chief executive,
stepped down early after protests by 500,000 people in 2003 and
hundreds of thousands in 2004.  Family Issues  Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  has criticized  Donald Tsang ’s
government for failing to address social “contradictions” that
are stoking discontent in the autonomous territory.  Tang said he didn’t intervene in the construction of the
basement as he was having marital issues with his wife at the
time. In October, he said he was forgiven by his wife for a
transgression, after the Eastweek magazine published an
interview in which the couple was questioned about speculation
he had an affair.  “I admit that I handled the family issues in a bad way,”
Tang said yesterday. “These are all my fault. I will bear all
the responsibility.”  Tang’s father is Tang Hsiang Chien, ranked the 40th-richest
person in Hong Kong in 2010 by Forbes Magazine.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sophie Leung in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Yun in Hong Kong at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net ;
Tan Hwee Ann at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net  