-- Anglo Is More Likely to Sell Platinum Mines Than Unit, Deutsche, Avior Say
-- B y   C a r l i   C o o k e
-- 2012-02-20T11:21:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/anglo-more-likely-to-sell-platinum-mines-than-unit-analysts-say.html
Anglo American Plc (AAL)  is more likely to
sell or shut platinum mines than spin off its stake in the
world’s largest producer of the metal after a review, analysts
at Deutsche Bank AG,  RBC Capital Markets , Panmure Gordon & Co.
and Avior Research Ltd. said.  “Closure of shafts is most likely given the structural
position” of the platinum group metals market, Deutsche Bank
analysts Grant Sporre,  Tim Clark  and Rob Clifford wrote in a
note to clients today.  Selling all of Anglo American Platinum would cut Anglo’s
market value by about $15 billion, making it an “easier
takeover target” for parties including a combined Glencore
International Plc-Xstrata Plc, Clinton Duncan of Johannesburg-
based Avior said by e-mail.  Anglo Chief Executive Officer  Cynthia Carroll  said Feb. 17
the company’s platinum unit isn’t yielding the returns Anglo
expects and it will review the business. Anglo American Platinum
last week cut its 2012 output target and put a freeze on
employment after annual profit slid 64 percent to 3.59 billion
rand ($468 million) and as Europe’s debt crisis weighs on metal
prices.  “I would be surprised and disappointed to see Anglo sell
off its equity in Anglo Platinum at what is still effectively
the bottom of the platinum market,” Alison Turner, a London-
based analyst at Panmure, said by e-mail.  The metal, used in devices that cut car emissions and to
make jewelry, added 0.8 percent to $1,646.75 an ounce by 10:50
a.m. in  London , 28 percent below the 2008 record of $2,301.50.  “I think that right-sizing and focusing on most profitable
ounces is the target,” Des Kilalea, a London-based mining
analyst at RBC, said in an e-mail. “This could include a review
of some assets for sale.”  Anglo American, which produces metals and minerals from
Africa to Brazil, owns 79 percent of  Anglo American Platinum (AMS) ,
the platinum company said in an e-mailed response to questions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Cooke (nee Lourens) in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  