-- Laos Sates Culture Lust With Luang Prabang’s Papaya Body Scrubs
-- B y   W i l l i a m   M e l l o r
-- 2012-02-20T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/laos-sates-culture-lust-with-luang-prabang-s-papaya-body-scrubs.html
Wandering the corridors of the
stately royal palace in Luang Prabang, I get a sense of deja vu
as I peer into the bedroom of the last king of  Laos .  Savang Vatthana lost his throne -- and later, in still-
unexplained circumstances, his life -- after communists seized
control of the former French colony in 1975.  His palace on the banks of the Mekong River is now a
museum, and his possessions, including two Lincoln Continentals
in the garage, are on public display, Bloomberg Pursuits
magazine reports in its premiere issue.  It’s the royal boudoir that catches my attention. The bed
looks like a copy of the canopied four-poster I’ve been sleeping
in since arriving in this remote  city  of Buddhist temples and
elegant European-style villas. “Just like my room at the
resort,” I say sotto voce.  Overhearing this, my tour guide skeptically raises an
eyebrow. “Are you sure?” she asks. “Actually, I heard that your
resort is much better.”  She has a point. The monarchs of the kingdom once known as
“Land of a Million Elephants” undoubtedly lived in splendor in
the palace built for them by their French overlords. Guests at
the nearby  Amantaka resort , itself a restored French colonial-
era treasure where room rates range from $700 to $1,500 a night,
do enjoy certain additional comforts.  Private Pools  For a start, Amantaka’s 24 suites, with their terraces and
louvered windows, are bigger than the royal bedrooms. And most
have their own individual swimming pools measuring 9 meters by 5
meters (30 feet by 16 feet) in courtyards shaded by mango and
tamarind trees.  If guests aren’t impressed by the private pools, they
probably will be when the room attendant asks what temperature
they would like the water adjusted to in readiness for their
morning laps.  For aficionados of the Aman chain of resorts, the pools and
other luxuries are only part of the attraction. Since 1987,
Singapore-based Amanresorts International Pte has built 25
discreet hideaways for well-heeled guests who, its  website  says,
have “a lust for faraway cultures.”  Starting with destinations such as Phuket,  Thailand (THHOVATL) , and
 Bali ,  Indonesia , founder Adrian Zecha, an entrepreneur of
Indonesian and Czech descent, later ventured into ever more
exotic regions.  Saffron-Robed Monks  Eventually, that quest took Zecha, 78, to the misty,
densely forested mountain ridges of northern Laos, not far from
where the border meets Thailand and Myanmar (formerly known as
 Burma ) at one end of the once-notorious opium-producing Golden
Triangle.  There, at the confluence of the Mekong and its tributary,
the Nam Khan, nestles the sleepy former royal city of Luang
Prabang.  With a population of 28,000, it no longer boasts large
herds of elephants; fewer than 2,000 of the animals remain in
all of Laos. Its role as capital was long ago surrendered to
Vientiane.  Still, it does have 36 temples and some 700 saffron-robed
monks, who, at dawn each morning, pad barefoot through the
silent streets with their alms bowls to collect donations of
sticky rice. And the laid-back citizens -- monks and laity alike
-- remain as courteous and welcoming as when I first visited 18
years ago.  Splendid Temples  A former feudal city-state, Luang Prabang fell on hard
times in the late 19th century. In 1893, after attacks by
Chinese bandits, the king sought protection from the French,
whose colonial administrators built their own grand, European-
style buildings alongside the existing temples.  The result is a townscape of Asian and European
architecture so unique that in 1995 it was included on the
 Unesco World Heritage List  along with sites such as  Machu Picchu 
in  Peru  and the Piazza del Duomo in Pisa,  Italy .  Of the temples, 16th-century Wat Xieng Thong, with its
sweeping, multitiered roofline, and the richly decorated Wat Mai
Suwannaphumaham are the most splendid.  Among the French buildings, the palace, an intriguing
fusion of French Beaux-Arts and Laotian styles, stands out.  Then there’s the magical  Mekong . In the late afternoon, I
take Amantaka’s wooden longboat upriver, past wiry fishermen and
mahogany-skinned farmers tilling the rich alluvial soil.  Then the boatman turns around, cuts the engine and lets the
vessel drift back downstream.  Mekong Riverweed  Reclining on cushions, Laotian-style, I sip hoppy Beerlao
and nibble on Mekong riverweed -- a local delicacy -- as the sun
sets behind an amphitheater of lush limestone peaks.  Amid this architectural and natural splendor, Amanresorts
found a French-built former hospital with low-slung buildings.
With the grounds transformed into a tropical garden estate, it
opened in 2009 as Amantaka.  There are plenty of places to stay in Luang Prabang. A good
proportion of the restored colonial buildings -- even a former
jail -- have been converted into hotels and guesthouses.  For a combination of pampering and intellectual
stimulation, it’s hard to beat the Aman formula. Guests have the
choice of Laotian and European dining, a spa offering papaya
body scrubs, a well-stocked library and those private pools.  The location is excellent. Markets, palace and temples are
a short walk away. It makes for a jarring patchwork of riches
and poverty in a country with a  gross domestic product per
capita  of only $1,204 as of 2011.  Flavorsome Orlam  Luang Prabang’s Asia-Europe fusion also encompasses the
cuisine.  The Laotian people, whose culture and language are similar
to the neighboring Thai, eat sticky rice, curries and other
dishes found in  Thailand ’s northern and northeastern provinces,
plus local specialties such as flavorsome orlam, a dish
featuring jungle ingredients, including pieces of aromatic wood.  The French also taught them well. Stop for breakfast in a
market and you will find Parisian-quality baguettes, omelets and
good Laotian coffee.  If Luang Prabang is so wonderful, how come so few people
know about it?  That’s explained by Laos’s tragic recent past. A landlocked
country with 6.7 million people, Laos adjoins  Vietnam ; it was
dragged into the Indochina conflict and became the most-bombed
nation per capita in history, according to the Manchester, U.K.-
based  Mines Advisory Group .  Lethal Legacy  Almost a third of the 2 million tons of ordnance dropped on
Laos failed to detonate immediately, leaving a lethal legacy
that has since claimed an estimated 20,000 postwar casualties.  After the communists seized power, the king, queen and
crown prince were consigned to remote Xam Neua near the
Vietnamese border for re-education. They’re believed to have
died there in the 1980s.  Under the new regime, Laos was about as welcoming to
tourists as  North Korea  is. The stretch of the Mekong dividing
it from U.S.-backed Thailand became the Iron Curtain of  Asia .  More recently, Laos’s rulers, though still communist, have
relaxed somewhat, partly because they can’t obliterate deep-
seated Buddhist values.  “The government is strict, but the people are liberal,” a
student who didn’t want to give his name says with a chuckle
over coffee.  55-Minute Hop  Visitors can now obtain visas on arrival at Luang Prabang
airport. There are direct  flights  from  Hanoi  in Vietnam,  Siem
Reap  in  Cambodia , the northern Thai city of  Chiang Mai  and
Bangkok. I chose the Chiang Mai option, a 55-minute hop on a
French-built ATR-72 turboprop that costs about $300 round-trip.  The best time to visit is during the dry season from
November to February, when days are balmy and the evenings cool.
The world is discovering Luang Prabang. Go soon, before it
becomes just another tourist destination.  A Long Weekend in Luang Prabang  Friday: Arrive at Luang Prabang  airport  (visa on arrival)
via Bangkok,  Chiang Mai , Hanoi, Vientiane or Siem Reap. Check
into Amantaka resort. Take part in the traditional Lao Baci
welcome ceremony led by Nithakhong Somsanith, Amantaka’s
 cultural adviser  and a member of the former Laotian royal
family. Explore the night market for handicrafts. Dinner
alfresco at Coconut Garden Laotian restaurant.  Sleep In  Saturday morning: “Make merit” by kneeling at roadside to
place sticky rice in the alms bowls of passing Buddhist monks.
Take a walking tour of the morning market, the National Museum
(the former royal palace) and temples. Lunch on Laotian baguette
sandwiches and coffee at stalls. Evening: Sample Laotian set
dinner at Amantaka resort. Have a nightcap listening to live
music in front of an open fire at Lao Lao Garden restaurant.  Sunday: Sleep in, swim in your private pool, get massage at
the Amantaka  spa  or visit the resort’s cooking school on an
organic rice and vegetable farm 10 minutes outside town. Late
afternoon: Cruise the Mekong at sunset. Dinner: Cross the
Nam Khan River by bamboo footbridge or ferry for a traditional
Lao hot pot at  Dyen Sabai  restaurant (dyensabai.com).  Monday: Make the 20-minute, 328-step climb up sacred Phousi
Hill for final panoramic views. Fly back home to the 21st
century.  Editors: Stryker McGuire, Jonathan Neumann  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Mellor in Sydney at 
 wmellor@bloomberg.net . 