-- Stocks Climb for Fourth Day as Metals Rally on China Measures, Greek Talks
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   L y n n   T h o m a s s o n
-- 2012-02-20T22:15:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/asian-stocks-climb-dollar-weakens-as-china-cuts-reserve-ratio-oil-gains.html
Stocks rose for a fourth day and
metals rallied after  China ’s central bank cut reserve
requirements for lenders. The euro and Italian bonds gained as
European leaders prepared to discuss a Greek rescue.  The  MSCI All-Country World Index (MXWD)  added 0.6 percent to a
six-month high at 5:10 p.m.  New York  time. Standard & Poor’s 500
Index futures added 0.5 percent. U.S. markets are closed for a
holiday. The euro appreciated 0.8 percent to $1.3243, and the
yield on the 10-year Italian note fell 10 basis points. Copper
broke a six-day losing streak in  London . Oil climbed to a nine-
month high as  Iran  said it halted some crude exports.  Finance ministers gathering today in Brussels will try to
settle remaining disputes to wrap up a 130 billion-euro ($173
billion) bailout to fend off a Greek default. The proportion of
cash that Chinese lenders must set aside will be cut by half a
percentage point, the central bank said Feb. 18.  “The market is once again hoping and expecting a deal in
 Greece , and that’s lifting risk appetite,” said Niels Christensen, chief currency strategist at Nordea Bank AB in
Copenhagen. Investors “are looking to China to generate growth,
so it’s very important that officials are supporting the growth
outlook. It also fits into the broader picture with most central
banks in an easing mode, very focused on securing monetary
conditions that are stimulating to growth,” he said.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  climbed 0.8 percent to the
highest since July as almost five companies rose for each the
fell. TNT Express NV surged 60 percent after  Europe ’s second-
largest express-delivery service rejected a $6.43 billion
takeover offer from United Parcel Service Inc. PostNL NV, which
owns 29.9 percent of TNT Express after a spin off from Dutch
postal operator TNT NV in May, rose 50 percent.  Euro, Yen  The euro climbed 0.9 percent versus the yen. The  Dollar
Index (DXY) , which tracks the U.S. currency against those of six
trading partners, declined 0.4 percent.  The yield on the Greek bond due October 2022 declined 54
basis points to 33.84 percent. The Spanish 10-year yield slipped
10 basis points, while the German 10-year bund yield rose four
basis points.  Copper added 0.7 percent in London. Oil in New York jumped
as much 2.1 percent to $105.44 a barrel, the highest price for a
most-active contract since May 5. Iran will supply crude to
“new customers” instead of companies in the U.K. and France,
according to the oil ministry’s news website, Shana, citing
Alireza Nikzad Rahbar, a spokesman.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  increased 0.4 percent,
climbing to the highest level since Aug. 4. Russia’s  Micex Index (MICEX) 
rose 0.7 percent on higher oil. Benchmark gauges climbed 1.1
percent in Hungary and 0.6 percent in Turkey. The  Shanghai
Composite Index (SHCOMP)  added 0.3 percent, while the Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index of Chinese stocks listed in  Hong Kong 
retreated 0.4 percent. India was closed for a public holiday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Lynn Thomasson in Hong Kong at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  