-- Ministers Back Australia’s Gillard as Coup Speculation Mounts
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2012-02-20T01:29:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/australia-ministers-back-gillard-as-unrest-mounts.html
Senior Cabinet ministers rallied
behind Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  today as
speculation intensified that Foreign Minister Kevin Rudd would
seek a comeback and challenge for the premiership.  A lawmaker in the governing Labor Party, Darren Cheeseman,
broke ranks yesterday to openly call for Gillard, the nation’s
first female leader, to quit and hand the job back to Rudd. The
foreign minister used an interview broadcast at the weekend to
say he’s changed the autocratic style that helped lead to his
downfall in a back-room party coup in June 2010.  Rudd has “either got to put up or shut up,” Simon Crean,
a former Labor leader who is minister for regional Australia,
told Australian Broadcasting Corp. radio today. “If  Kevin Rudd 
can’t be part of the team, let him exit the team.”  Since forming a minority government after the August 2010
election, Gillard, 50, has seen her popularity slump in the
polls after forging agreements with the Greens party and
independent lawmakers on proposed legislation such as a 30
percent tax on coal and  iron-ore  profits. While she has pushed
signature bills through parliament, Gillard has struggled to
sell them to the public, including implementing a carbon tax she
said before the 2010 election she would oppose.  A “small group” of Labor lawmakers is destabilizing the
government with speculation about the leadership, Trade Minister
Craig Emerson told the ABC.  ‘Showdown Is Needed’  “There’s an incredible amount of instability in the party
and a showdown is needed to stem it,” John Wanna, a professor
of public administration at the Canberra-based  Australian
National University , said in an interview. “Gillard’s not a
quitter so Rudd is going to have to try to beat her.”  Labor lawmaker Cheeseman said yesterday the party couldn’t
win the next election, due late-2013, with Gillard in charge.
His seat, in the same state of Victoria as Gillard’s, is the
most marginally held in Australia.  “Certainly, it would be interest-of-party for Julia to
stand down and allow Cabinet to select a strong candidate,”
Cheeseman said in an interview in the Sunday Age yesterday. Rudd
would be a better leader “second time around,” he said.  A comeback for Rudd, 54, would be a spectacular turnaround
in fortunes. Labor lawmakers, spurred by his autocratic style of
leadership, moved to depose him on poor poll ratings that were
driven by a battle with  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and other miners over
his plans for a 40 percent tax on resources profits.  YouTube Video  Rudd said at the weekend he has learned to better delegate
and consult with staff. A video, uploaded on YouTube on Feb. 17,
shows him during his term as prime minister swearing and blaming
others for having the wrong wording as he tried to  pre-record a
speech in Chinese. The former diplomat is fluent in Mandarin.  The foreign minister will be overseas for meetings in
 Mexico ,  Washington ,  London , Tunisia and  Malaysia  until about
Feb. 26, according to his office. Parliament returns in the
national capital, Canberra, the next day.  “We have a prime minister who is leading us,” Rudd said
in an interview with  Sky News  broadcast yesterday. A challenge
is not “on,” he said.  Rudd has the support of 40 of the 52 Labor lawmakers he
needs to win a challenge and may do so as soon as next month,
the Australian newspaper reported Feb. 18, without saying where
it obtained the information. Gillard’s backers estimate she has
45 votes, with the rest of the 103 Labor lawmakers undecided, it
said.  Tallying Support  “Kevin hasn’t got the numbers to challenge,” Crean told
the ABC today.  “He’s well short of anywhere near a majority.”  Gillard’s support among voters as preferred prime minister
fell 3 percentage points to 37 percent, with opposition leader
 Tony Abbott  rising 3 points to 40 percent, according to a
Newspoll survey conducted Feb. 10-12. The  Labor Party ’s primary
vote rose 2 points to 32 percent, behind 46 percent for Abbott’s
Liberal-National coalition. The survey of 1,141 people had a
margin of error of plus or minus 3 percentage points.  “I have the strong confidence of my colleagues, their
strong support, and my focus is on getting on with my job as
prime minister,” Gillard, a former union lawyer, told reporters
in Darwin yesterday. She denied her office was responsible for
leaking the YouTube video.  Gillard faced hurdles last month including independent
lawmaker  Andrew Wilkie ’s decision to withdraw support for the
government, reducing its parliamentary majority to one, and
opposition demands for an inquiry into Labor’s role in clashes
between police and aboriginal protesters.  Legislative Record  “I would find it easier to work with Kevin Rudd than Julia
Gillard,” Wilkie told Sky News yesterday, adding he had
discussed the possibility of Rudd returning as prime minister in
a meeting with him in November. “Kevin clearly wants the job
back.”  Gillard’s legislative record is more successful than
Rudd’s, whose government had an absolute majority in parliament.
She plans to implement taxes on  carbon emissions  and coal and
iron ore profits from July 1 as her government strives to return
the budget to surplus by 2012-13.  The government will charge about 500 polluters A$23 a ton
for discharges until the set price gives way to a cap-and-trade
system in 2015. A 30 percent tax on iron ore and coal profits is
forecast to raise A$7.7 billion ($8.3 billion) in the first two
years.  Gillard had another legislative victory on Feb. 15 when
 Australia ’s lower house passed legislation to introduce means-
testing of rebates for private-health insurance. That and the
mining tax bill are expected to be approved in the upper house,
where the Greens hold the balance of power.  Growing Economy  Australia’s A$1.4 trillion economy grew 2.5 percent in the
year through the third quarter of 2011, a period that spans the
first full 12 months of Gillard’s leadership, according to the
latest figures available from the Australian Bureau of
Statistics.  Gillard’s bid to trumpet her government’s economic
credentials has been offset by criticism from Abbott, who says
Australians can’t afford the carbon tax. The opposition leader
has highlighted that last year the nation recorded its worst
jobs growth in 19 years as currency appreciation made
manufacturers uncompetitive.  “Every day the coalition is preparing for government while
the government is preparing for another leadership change,”
Abbott told reporters in Sydney today. “What we need is a
government that is getting on with the job, not a government
that’s in the business of cannabalising itself.”  Job Losses  The Australian dollar has strengthened more than 60
percent against the  U.S. dollar  in the past three years, making
products less competitive in overseas markets.  BlueScope Steel
Ltd. (BSL) , the country’s largest steel producer, in August shuttered
its export division. Toyota Motor Corp. and General Motors Co.
have cut jobs in Australia this year, citing the currency’s
strength, while Alcoa Inc. is reviewing the future of an
aluminum smelter.  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia, which unexpectedly left its
key rate unchanged at 4.25 percent on Feb. 7 after judging that
two cuts late last year would help the economy weather  Europe ’s
debt crisis, sees average growth of 3.5 percent in 2012, down
from its Nov. 4 estimate of 4 percent.  Australian bookmaker Sportsbet, which says it’s the
nation’s largest online betting agency by revenue, is offering
to return A$2.35 on every A$1 bet should Rudd be Labor leader at
the next election. A bet on Gillard gets the same price.  “Most Australians are getting pretty sick of the
leadership speculation federally,” said Queensland Premier Anna Bligh, who is campaigning for state elections on March 24. “The
sooner this is resolved one way or the other the better.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  