-- Australia’s Ponting to Play On in Test Cricket, Says One-Day Career Over
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-02-21T06:19:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/australia-drops-ricky-ponting-from-one-day-cricket-squad-after-form-slump.html
Ricky Ponting ,  Australia ’s record
run-scorer and most-successful cricket captain, said he wants to
continue playing elite Tests a day after being dropped from the
one-day squad.  A regular in the national team since making his debut in
1995, the three-time World Cup winner said that although he
doesn’t fit into the selectors’ plans for the shortened format,
he’ll remain available for five-day matches.  “Now that international one-day cricket’s not there, what
I have left is Test match cricket and I’ll make sure that I’m as
well-prepared as possible to play every game,” Ponting, 37,
said at a news conference at the Sydney Cricket Ground. “I’m
still firmly of the belief that I’ve got a lot to offer any team
I play in.”  Selectors dumped Ponting from the one-day squad yesterday
after his worst batting slump in the format, where he scored 18
runs in five innings. That followed the third-most prolific Test
series of his career, during which he amassed 544 runs in a
four-match series against  India  that concluded Jan. 28.  It was the first time Ponting had gone five straight
innings without reaching double figures in 375 one-day games for
Australia. His omission came even after he stood in as captain
for the injured  Michael Clarke  in the past two matches. Ponting
said he’d been given no indication by the selectors that he was
about to lose his place in the team, adding that he wasn’t
officially retiring from one-day internationals.  “It’s a little bit hard to come here and say I’m retiring
when I’ve already been left out of the side,” he said. “I
don’t expect to play one-day international cricket for Australia
anymore.”  Test Target  Australia is scheduled to play three Tests against the West
Indies in April. It then hosts  South Africa  and  Sri Lanka 
starting in November before tours to India and England in 2013.  James Sutherland,  Cricket Australia ’s chief executive
officer, told reporters that Ponting would be an automatic pick
for the Caribbean tour.  “I don’t think there’s any question about his selection
for the West Indies,” Sutherland said at the SCG. “You just
need to look at the summer he’s had in Test cricket.”  Ponting said he’d taken a lot of satisfaction from his
performances against India over the past two months, which
included a drought-breaking century and double hundred.  ‘Proved to Myself’  “I proved to myself and I proved to my teammates that I
can still win games for Australia,” he said.  While his one-day exit will give him more time to focus on
Tests, he’s an outside chance to tour  England  next year,
according to sportsbet.com.au. The on-line bookmaker rates
Ponting a 1-2 chance to not play another Ashes Test, meaning a
successful $1 bet returns a profit of 50 cents.  “With his dismissal from the one-day side the writing
might be on the wall that the selectors want to go in another
direction,” said Sportsbet.com.au spokesman Shaun Anderson.  Ponting began playing for the Tasmania state team as a 17-
year-old and made his national debut in a one-day match against
South Africa in 1995 at age 20.  As well as scoring an Australian-record 13,200 Test and
13,704 one-day runs, Ponting has the second-most career catches
by a non-wicketkeeper in both formats with 193 and 160.  His Test run tally puts him third behind India’s Sachin Tendulkar and  Rahul Dravid  on the all-time list. Only Tendulkar
has scored more career runs in the 50-over format. His total of
71 centuries in both formats is second to Tendulkar’s 99.  World Cup Wins  He won 48 of 77 Tests, more than any other skipper in 135
years of elite cricket, and also captained Australia to the 2003
and 2007 World Cup titles. He featured in four finals at the
four-yearly championship, winning three.  “I just can’t think of a player that has made a greater
contribution and been a better one-day cricketer, particularly
in the big moments,” Sutherland said.  The winner in more Tests and one-day games than any other
international player and captain, Ponting stood down from the
role for both formats 11 months ago following the team’s
quarterfinal exit at the 2011  World Cup .  After surviving calls for his axing from the Test team last
year, the right-hander averaged 108.8 in the series against
India, hitting 221 and 60 not out in the final match in
Adelaide. He followed that with scores of 2, 1, 6, 2 and 7 in
Australia’s first five games of the three-nation one-day series.  Ponting said while his performances hadn’t warranted a spot
in the one-day team, his desire to extend his 162-Test career
hadn’t wavered.  “The passion for the international game of cricket for me
has not died or changed one little bit,” he said. “I’ve made
it very clear right through the Australian summer that I still
don’t see a finish line as far as my international career is
concerned.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  