-- Bank of Ireland CEO Says Home Loan Arrears to Peak in 2012
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2012-02-20T10:16:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/bank-of-ireland-swings-into-profit-after-bond-exchange-gain-1-.html
Bank of Ireland Plc  Chief Executive
Officer Richie Boucher said he expects the bank’s home-loan
arrears to peak this year and loan-loss impairments will
“reduce over time” as the Irish economy recovers.  Shares in the largest Irish lender advanced. The proportion
of Irish home mortgages more than 90 days in arrears rose to 5.6
percent at the end of December from 3.76 percent a year earlier,
Boucher told reporters today as the bank posted a narrower loss.  “We don’t anticipate” that arrears have “peaked yet,”
Boucher said. Still, the Dublin-based bank expects “the ratio
of increase will start to ease in 2012 and will peak in 2012.”  While impairment losses rose to 1.94 billion euros ($2.56
billion) last year from 1.86 billion euros in 2010, they were
below the 2.9 billion-euro level in 2009, which the bank said
marked a peak. Bank of Ireland is alone among the country’s six
largest lenders in escaping control by the state, which sold a
34.9 percent stake last year to five investors, including
Toronto-based Fairfax Financial Holdings Ltd. and WL Ross & Co.  “Irish loan books and operating profitability will be
tested most severely in the coming months, but it is our
estimation that a solid enough foundation has now been put in
place to weather this storm,” said Karl Goggin, an analyst with
Dublin-based NCB Stockbrokers, who rates the  shares (BKIR)  “buy.”  Bank of Ireland shares rose as much as 8.6 percent in
Dublin trading and were up 7.1 percent to 15 euro cents at 10
a.m. local time.  Loan Arrears  The stock has rallied more than 80 percent this year after
 plunging  78 percent and 55 percent in 2011 and 2010,
respectively. The shares peaked at 11.88 euros five years ago.  The bank aims to “prudently” disengage from the state’s
bank-guarantee plan after paying 449 million euros of fees for
this protection last year, Chief Financial Officer Andrew
Keating said.  Bank of Ireland’s so-called underlying pretax loss narrowed
to 1.52 billion euros from 3.45 billion euros a year earlier,
according to a statement today. The 2010 figure was boosted by
2.47 billion euros of losses on risky real-estate loans it sold
to the National Asset Management Agency, the nation’s so-called
bad bank.  Bank of Ireland said home-loan arrears increased in the
second half as lenders implemented a new code of conduct amid
“considerable public speculation” about potential government
assistance for homeowners struggling to pay debts incurred in
the nation’s property boom. Boucher said the bank set aside
about 1 billion euros of provisions for bad  mortgage loans .  Government Mortgage Policy  Ireland is reshaping its bankruptcy and insolvency laws
after its real-estate bubble collapsed in 2008 and unemployment
tripled to 14.2 percent as of December. Some 14 percent of the
country’s private residential mortgages were either more than 90
days in arrears or had been restructured at the end of
September, the country’s central bank said Feb. 17.  Boucher criticized a Moody’s Investors Service estimate
that as much as 25 percent of the country’s mortgage debt is
open to writedowns as a result of the government’s proposals.  “I don’t know where they got their figure from,” Boucher
said. “The legislation doesn’t provide for mandatory writedowns
of mortgages, and I think the government have been pretty clear
about that.”  Irish homeowners seeking to get their mortgages at least
partially written off need agreement from lenders under the
proposed new laws. Any agreement will require support from at
least 75 percent of creditors who have security on their loans.  ‘Significant Uncertainty’  Bank of Ireland expects its impairment losses to be
“higher” than the central bank’s base case set out last year,
as the domestic economy is expected to be weaker this year than
originally forecast, Keating told reporters. The impairment
losses will still be “well within” stress-case assumptions, he
said.  The bank raised 5.2 billion euros of capital last year
following a  stress test  in March.  “Forecasts at Bank of Ireland are fraught with significant
uncertainty, given the macro headwinds, domestically and
internationally,”  Eamonn Hughes , an analyst at Dublin-based
 Goodbody Stockbrokers , said in a note today.  While the bank said last year it plans to rebuild its net
interest margin, the difference between its funding costs and
lending rate, to more than 200 basis points by the end of 2014,
the timing of the recovery has become “much more challenging”
as  interest rates  remain low and competition for deposits
remains “intense” in Ireland, Boucher said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  