-- Bill Haas Wins Northern Trust Open in Playoff Over Mickelson, Bradley
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2012-02-20T05:00:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/bill-haas-wins-northern-trust-open-in-playoff-over-mickelson-bradley.html
Bill Haas  rolled in a 43-foot birdie
putt on the second playoff hole to beat  Phil Mickelson  and
Keegan Bradley at golf’s Northern Trust Open, his fourth victory
on the U.S. PGA Tour.  The 29-year-old Haas, who in September captured the 2011
season-ending Tour Championship and a $10 million bonus for
winning the FedEx Cup, is now second to Dustin Johnson in PGA
Tour victories among players younger than 30. He received about
$1.2 million for yesterday’s victory at Riviera Country Club in
Pacific Palisades,  California .  “I never expected to make a 40-footer, and especially in
that situation,” Haas said at a news conference. “I felt like
I put a good roll on it, and it was meant to be I guess.”  With the victory, Haas prevented Mickelson from becoming
the first golfer to win  PGA Tour  events in back-to-back weeks
since  Tiger Woods  in 2009. Mickelson, who won the Pebble Beach
National Pro Am on Feb. 12, was tied with Bradley for the lead
entering yesterday’s final round.  Haas, who was two shots back after the third round, had a
2-under-par 69 to finish at 7-under 277. Mickelson and Bradley
each shot even-par rounds of 71 and both needed to birdie the
last hole in regulation play to force the playoff.  All three players made par at the first extra hole, the
par-4 18th. At the next, the 312-yard par-4 10th that can be
reached from the tee, Mickelson left himself a pitch over a
bunker, Bradley landed in a bunker in front of the green and
Haas found rough on the other side of the green.  Birdie Chances  Haas played to the center of the green more than 40 feet
from the cup, Mickelson’s lob shot rolled through the putting
surface into a bunker and Bradley finished closest to the hole,
stopping on the back edge. Haas then drained his putt and
Mickelson, a two-time Northern Trust Open winner, and 2011 PGA
Championship winner Bradley missed their birdie chances.  “I thought I put myself in the best position to give
myself the best case to continue the playoff,” Haas said. “It
just happened that I won right there.”  Mickelson, who claimed his 40th PGA Tour title at  Pebble
Beach , lost his lead yesterday when he bogeyed the 14th and 15th
holes with his only three-putt greens of the tournament. He made
the playoff with a 27-foot birdie putt at the 18th, while
Bradley made a birdie of about half the distance.  “It was very defensive because the greens were so firm,
the pins were tough,” Mickelson said about the course setup at
Riviera. “Although there was no rough, it had kind of a U.S.
Open feel.”  Sergio Garcia  had two eagles and two birdies over his final
nine holes to end with a 7-under-par 64 that took him to 5-under
par and a tie for fourth place. The Spaniard began the last day
in 45th position.  The tour now moves to the Ritz-Carlton Golf Club’s Dove
Mountain course in Marana,  Arizona , for the Accenture Match
Play, the year’s first World Golf Championships tournament.
Mickelson and  Paul Casey  are the only golfers in the top 64 of
the Official World Ranking not in the field. The Mayakoba Golf
Classic,  Mexico ’s only PGA Tour event, also takes place this
week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas at 
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  