-- Boeing Apache Fights Tiger in $10 Billion Asian Helicopter Demand Contest
-- B y   S a b i n e   P i r o n e   a n d   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 2012-02-20T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/boeing-apache-fights-tiger-in-10-billion-asian-helicopter-demand-contest.html
Boeing Co. (BA) , Sikorsky, Eurocopter and
 Bell (TEXTRON) , the top four helicopter makers, are focused on Asia as
1,000 orders from states spanning  India  to Korea are set to make
it the fastest growing military-chopper market by 2015.  Tenders in half a dozen nations should produce sales worth
$10 billion over the next three years, Norbert Ducrot, executive
vice president for the Asia-Pacific region at Eurocopter, the
world’s No. 1 manufacturer of rotorcraft, said in an interview.  “Asia has the ingredients to grow into one of the largest
markets worldwide,” said Christophe Nurit, regional vice
president at Sikorsky, a United Technologies Corp. unit that’s
the No. 1 maker of military helicopters. Key bids include naval
tenders in  Korea  and India, for which the company is pitching
its Seahawk antisubmarine model, a version of the Black Hawk.  Asian military spending rose 14 percent last year, funded
by the world’s fastest growing regional economy. The helicopter
market is surging as nations race to replace aging western,
Soviet and home-grown models, led by emerging powers seeking the
means to extend their military reach, according to Craig
Caffrey, a defense analyst at IHS Jane’s DS Forecast in  London .  “In  China  and India the market is being driven by attempts
to improve the mobility of their ground forces, which requires
the procurement of large quantities of tactical transport
helicopters,” said Caffrey, adding that  Asia  represents “one
of the most open and diverse” markets for the aircraft.  U.S. Slide  While the U.S. will remain the biggest military-helicopter
market over the next decade, its share of sales will dip from 50
percent to 38 percent, with the exit from Iraq last year and a
withdrawal from  Afghanistan  planned for 2014 likely to “signal
a damping in demand,” according to London-based  Visiongain .  At the same time,  South Korea  will jump from ninth in the
world to second, displacing the U.K., India to third from fourth
and China to seventh from 13th as its market doubles, led by
attack helicopters, the forecaster said in a report on Feb. 6.  “There’s a bubble of activity,” said Douglas Barrie, an
analyst at the International Institute for Strategic Studies in
London. “Rotary-wing procurement doesn’t tend to be high on
must-have lists, so there’s also an element of this having been
deferred to the point where things really need updating.”  Showdown  Competition intensified last week in  Singapore , with major
manufacturers pushing their products at the last major air show
before a series of contract announcements begins with an Indian
order for 197 light helicopters valued at about $1.5 billion.  Eurocopter (EAD) , based in Marignane,  France , is offering its
AS550 C3 Fennec in the competition to replace aging Aloutte
models built by predecessor Sud Aviation, which sold its first
helicopter in Asia in 1962.  Russian Helicopters , formed to
consolidate the country’s rotorcraft industry, is offering the
Kamov Ka-226 -- which has the NATO reporting name ‘Hoodlum’ --
with a winner to be declared in March or April, Ducrot said.  India, whose existing chopper fleet is dominated by Soviet
models, also has a contest underway for 55 naval helicopters,
worth $2.2 billion, for which Eurocopter is pitching the NH90
against Sikorsky’s Seahawk and  Textron Inc. (TXT) ’s Bell 429.  The south Asian nation is also seeking 22 attack choppers
in a tender for which Chicago-based Boeing says its AH-64 Apache
has been selected as preferred bidder over the Russian Mil Mi-28
Havoc, together with 15 heavy-lift models that have attracted
proposals from the Boeing Ch-47 Chinook and the Mi-26 Halo.  Combat-Proven  Boeing is offering the Chinook model used in Afghanistan,
defense spokesman Hal Klopper said. That may enhance its
credentials for operation in the Himalayas, where Indian and
Pakistani forces are ranged against each other at high altitude.  With India also due to issue proposals for coastguard
helicopters this year, “there are potential tenders for all the
armed forces,” said Ducrot at Eurocopter, a unit of European
Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. which lifted revenue 13 percent
last year a record 5.4 billion euros ($7 billion).  The surge in Asian helicopter purchases mirrors a jump in
combat-plane orders led by an $11 billion Indian contract for
126 fighters, the biggest in years, provisionally awarded to
Paris-based  Dassault Aviation SA (AM) ’s Rafale last month.  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) , the world’s biggest defense company,
won a deal to supply 42 F-35 Joint Strike Fighters to  Japan  on
Dec. 20 and is competing with Boeing, Eurofighter GmbH and Saab
AB for a $7 billion, 60-plane contract from South Korea.  Tiltrotor Interest  Korea’s chopper requirements are led by the $1.5 billion
AH-X tender for 36 attack helicopters, which pits the Apache
against Eurocopter’s EC665 Tiger and the Bell AH-1Z, a twin-
engine variant of the Cobra series known as the Viper.  Proposals are due to be submitted in May, Jeffrey Lowinger,
Bell’s executive vice president for engineering, said at the
Singapore show, adding that Asia’s “tremendous growth” is
spurring interest in a range of products, including the Bell-
 Boeing V-22 Osprey  “tiltrotor,” which can also fly like a
plane.  Sikorsky (UTX) ’s Nurit said in Singapore that Korea is also
poised to request tenders for an antisubmarine contract which
the company is “actively pursuing” with the Seahawk.  Among other bids, Eurocopter’s Tiger is competing for a
Malaysian contract, and the company is promoting the NH90 and
EC725 Super Cougar to Singapore as replacements for 30 of its
Super Puma transport choppers purchased in 1985. The EC725 is
also competing for a six-aircraft Indonesian order, Ducrot said.  Successful Asian bids generally require local partnerships,
he said, with Eurocopter manufacturing the NH90 in  Australia ,
the Super Puma in  Indonesia  and teamed with  Korea Aerospace
Industries Ltd. (047810)  to develop the KAI Surion utility helicopter,
for which South Korea placed 250 orders last year and which
could be qualified for export to  Europe  from July onwards.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sabine Pirone in London at 
 spirone@bloomberg.net ;
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net ;
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  