-- Baby Boomers Push Hepatitis Deaths Past HIV, Study Finds
-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2012-02-20T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/boomers-drug-use-pushes-hepatitis-deaths-past-hiv-study-finds.html
Deaths attributed to hepatitis in
the U.S. rose during the past decade to surpass those from HIV,
posing a future public health burden as most people aren’t aware
they are infected.  The baby boom generation, those born from 1946 to 1964, are
the most at risk to the bloodborne virus, said John Ward,
director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s
hepatitis division, and an author of the study.  “Injection drug use was frequent in this age group, and
even one-time exposure to injection drug use carries a high
risk,” Ward said in an interview. “Seventy-five percent of the
mortality is in this age group, and that mortality is
increasing. That’s the sobering facts for the baby boom
generation.”  Hepatitis  is a viral infection that can cause swelling and
inflammation of the liver and can lead to damage of the organ,
cancer and death, according to the  National Institutes of
Health . The virus has different forms -- A, B and C -- which are
further broken down into subgroups called genotypes.  Researchers studied 22 million death records from 1999 to
2007, finding 15,000 died from hepatitis C alone, compared with
13,000 from HIV. As many as 1.4 million people are living with
chronic hepatitis B, according to the study, and 3.2 million
have hepatitis C, with two-thirds born from 1946 to 1964. The
results were reported today in the  Annals of Internal Medicine .  ‘So Little Attention’  “Few diseases of such morbidity and mortality in the
 United States  have received so little public attention and
funding as chronic viral hepatitis,” the researchers wrote in
the study.  A vaccine for hepatitis B was first  approved  by the U.S.
Food and Drug Administration in 1981, and has been recommended
for all infants since the early 1990s, Ward said, eliminating
its prevalence among younger generations. Hepatitis C wasn’t
discovered until 1989 and has no vaccine, he said.  “It’s an infection that doesn’t always cause you to become
ill when you become infected,” Ward said. “It progresses
silently over decades, and many people do not become symptomatic
or sick until their liver damage is quite advanced, or they
develop  liver cancer , and so for those reasons, the scope of the
problem is underappreciated.”  As many as 170 million people worldwide are chronically
infected with the hepatitis C virus, according to the  World
Health Organization .  HIV Cases  While the number of people infected with HIV rose to 34
million globally in 2009, the virus that leads to AIDS, once a
death sentence, can be reduced to low levels in the blood with
use of combination antiviral medicines. About 1.2 million
Americans have HIV, with about 43,000 new cases reported in
2008, according to the CDC.  The standard treatment for hepatitis C for the past decade
has been a combination of the antiviral drug ribavirin with
interferon, an immune-boosting protein sold by  Merck & Co. (MRK)  as
PegIntron and by  Roche Holding AG (ROG)  as Pegasys. Patients receive
weekly shots of Interferon for as long as a year, which can
cause side effects such as fatigue and flu-like symptoms.  A new class of drugs were introduced last year called
protease inhibitors, including Victrelis from  Whitehouse
Station , New Jersey-based Merck and Incivek by  Vertex
Pharmaceuticals Inc. (VRTX)  of Cambridge,  Massachusetts . These
medicines attack the virus itself, and have been shown to cure
more patients in less time with fewer side effects, although
they still must be combined with Interferon shots.  Potential Breakthrough  A further breakthrough in treatment may come this year with
the development of the experimental drug class called nucleotide
polymerase inhibitors, which bind to a different part of the
virus than the protease inhibitors. These drugs are pan-
genotypic -- meaning they are effective across the different
types of hepatitis C. They could become the backbone for an
Interferon-free combination.  Abbott Laboratories,  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY) ,  Gilead
Sciences Inc. (GILD) ,  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , Merck and Vertex are among the
drugmakers acquiring and developing these new therapies as they
seek a potential combination that may lead to a cocktail pill to
control the disease, similar to the approach taken with HIV
drugs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  