-- BP Spill Deal Possible This Week After Mitsui, Analyst Says
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2012-02-20T16:46:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/bp-spill-deal-possible-this-week-after-mitsui-oppenheimer-says.html
BP Plc (BP/) , operator of the Macondo well
that caused the U.S.’s worst oil spill, may reach a settlement
for the disaster this week after a partner agreed on fines, an
Oppenheimer & Co. analyst said.  Mitsui & Co. (8031) ’s MOEX Offshore 2007 LLC will pay $90 million
to the U.S. and five states to settle pollution violations
related to 2010 spill. While BP will probably have to accept
different terms as the operator, the settlement suggests that BP
would pay $585 million for violations, less than 20 percent of
what the company has provisioned, said  Fadel Gheit , an analyst
at Oppenheimer in  New York . BP rose to the highest in London in
more than a year.  “This is only the civil part and does not include possible
criminal charges and penalties,” Gheit said in an e-mailed
response to questions. “The trials will begin later this month
and all parties are eager to settle before then. So there could
be very important decisions this week.”  BP shares remain 24 percent below their level in  London 
before the spill and the company has claimed about $40 billion
in charges to cover the costs of litigation and cleanup. Chief
Executive Officer Bob Dudley said Feb. 7 that the company would
like to reach a settlement if the terms are right.  Shares rose 2.1 percent to 499.25 pence in London, the
highest close since Jan. 19, 2011. BP’s U.S.-traded shares rose
2 percent after the MOEX announcement on Feb. 17, which came
when trading in London had closed.  The MOEX settlement doesn’t affect claims against or
potential recoveries from other companies over the spill, the
U.S. Justice Department said Feb 17. MOEX, a unit of Tokyo-based
Mitsui, no longer owns a share of the lease.  Well Ownership  BP had a 65 percent interest in the Macondo well, MOEX had
10 percent and  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  had a 25 percent stake.
The settlement suggests that Anadarko will be liable for about
$225 million in Clean Water Act fines if the terms are the same,
Gheit said.  “We can’t really read across anything with certainty,”
said  Jason Kenney , an analyst at  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  in
Edinburgh. “But this implies that a settlement is possible and
perhaps more likely for others, too.”  The settlement is the first of what may be a series of
agreements with the U.S. as lawsuits over the 2010 spill
approach a trial set for Feb. 27. The U.S. Justice Department
sued MOEX, BP, Anadarko and  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , which owned the rig
that exploded, in December 2010, seeking fines for each barrel
of oil discharged.  New Orleans Trial  U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier  in  New Orleans , who’s
overseeing much of the spill litigation, has scheduled a non-
 jury trial  to determine liability and apportion fault for the
disaster.  A U.S. motion to hold BP, Anadarko and Transocean liable by
law for  Clean Water Act  violations is pending before Barbier. A
ruling against the defendants would allow the U.S. to seek fines
against each company of as much as $1,100 per barrel of oil
spilled, without having to prove the issue of liability at
trial.  The Clean Water Act also allows the government to seek
fines of as much as $4,300 for each spilled barrel on a finding
of gross negligence. The government estimates that 4.1 million
barrels were spilled before the well was capped, putting BP at
risk of fines of as much as $17.6 billion.  Set Aside  BP set aside $3.5 billion for Clean Water Act fines,
assuming $1,100 a barrel and its own estimate of 3.2 million
barrels spilled, according to an annual report extract posted on
the company website. The company is negotiating with the U.S.
over settlement of the Clean Water Act claims, according to a
person familiar with the talks.  Daren Beaudo, a BP spokesman in Houston, declined to
comment on Feb. 17 on the MOEX settlement or any possible BP
agreement with the U.S. on pollution law claims.  “You cannot extrapolate a number for BP, but it is
positive in both being proportionate and timely,” said Stuart Joyner, an analyst at Investec Securities Ltd. in London. “It
suggests a moderate to good chance of a settlement pre-
commencement of the hearings on the 27th.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  