-- Breathable Caffeine From Canisters Will Get U.S. Review
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-02-20T16:49:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/breathable-caffeine-from-canisters-will-get-fda-review.html
Inhalable caffeine that may be
used as a “club drug” by teenagers, according to a  New
York  senator, will be reviewed by U.S. regulators after
going on sale last month.  The AeroShot Pure Energy caffeine inhaler became
available over the counter last month in New York and
 Boston  and delivers 100 milligrams of caffeine, the same
amount in a large cup of coffee.  Though the product didn’t require clearance because
it’s classified as a dietary supplement, New York
Democratic Senator  Charles Schumer  requested a  Food and
Drug Administration  review, saying it could pose hazards to
teens if taken with alcohol. Doctors say it may carry
neurological and cardiovascular risks.  The FDA will review information about the product and
respond directly to Schumer on the issues he raised, the
agency said in a statement.  Last year, at Schumer’s urging, the FDA stopped sales
of caffeinated alcoholic beverages after they were linked
to hospitalizations and deaths.  AeroShot, which is also sold in  France , was created by
David Edwards, a professor at Harvard University’s School
of Engineering and Applied Sciences, who also invented Le
Whif, a calorie-free inhalable chocolate.  Energy Boost  The yellow and gray canister resembling a tube of
lipstick is priced at $2.99 and not intended for anyone
younger than 18, according to the product’s website.  The inhaler is sold online by Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based Breathable Foods Inc. and The Lab
Store, in Paris. Breathable Foods says it’s a safe product
that delivers caffeine and a mix of B vitamins to the mouth
without containing chemicals found in other energy
products, such as taurine or glucuronic acid.  Breathable Foods will cooperate fully with the FDA
review to address the issues Schumer raised, Tom Hadfield,
the company’s chief executive officer, said in a statement.
The company is confident regulators will conclude AeroShot
is a safe, effective product that complies with U.S.
regulations, he said.  AeroShot advertising in  Europe  focuses on drinking and
partying, Schumer said in December, when he requested FDA
Commissioner  Margaret Hamburg  review its safety and
legality.  “The product is nothing more than a club drug
designed to give users the ability to drink until they
drop,” Schumer said.  Schumer noted the  American Academy  of Pediatrics
discourages the non-medical use of caffeine by children and
adolescents. The Elk Grove Village, Illinois-based doctor’s
group wrote AeroShot’s manufacturer in December about
concerns over caffeine’s effect on developing neurologic
and cardiovascular systems and the potential for the
product to exacerbate asthma.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in  Washington  at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 