-- Canada’s British Columbia to Beat Deficit Targets, Finance Minister Says
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2012-02-21T05:01:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/british-columbia-to-beat-deficit-targets-finance-minister-says.html
British Columbia’s budget deficit
will narrow faster than forecast as the Canadian province
returns to surplus in the next two years, Finance Minister Kevin Falcon said.  Canada’s third-most populous province is starting to
benefit from signs of economic recovery in the U.S., the
destination for about half its exports, Falcon said in an
interview in Victoria, British Columbia’s capital.  “That’s giving me confidence to say we can get back to
balance by 2013-2014,” he said. “Even though we’re the most
diversified economy in Canada, seeing the U.S. showing some
improvement was really a tipping factor.”  Falcon, who is scheduled to unveil his first budget today
after 5:30 p.m. New York time, said that as recently as November
he was concerned a deepening of  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis
would further delay the U.S. recovery, undermining the western
Canadian province’s effort to restore fiscal balance.  The government  forecast  in a November update that it would
have a shortfall of C$3.1 billion ($3.12 billion) in the year
ending March 31; C$805 million in 2012-2013 and a surplus the
following year.  The current fiscal year’s deficit had originally been
forecast at C$925 million. That figure widened to cover the cost
of  reversing  the merger of B.C.’s provincial sales tax and the
federal Goods-and-Services tax that was rejected by voters in a
referendum in August.  Falcon  announced  Feb. 17 that the so-called Harmonized
Sales Tax, or HST, will be ended by the end of March next year.  Outperforming Targets  “We intend to get back to where we’ve always been, which
is outperforming our targets,” Falcon said Feb. 16 in his
office at the provincial legislature. “That means in this
current fiscal, next year and the year after.”  It’s not yet clear how Falcon will balance revenue with
expenses on schedule, said Mary Webb, a Toronto-based senior
economist at Bank of  Nova Scotia .  “I’ll be looking for him to map out a plan,” Webb said
Feb. 17 in a telephone interview. “This is a government that
always likes to have a contingency cushion.”  While the theme of the budget will be the need for “real
caution and prudence” in  government spending , Falcon, who is
also deputy premier, said he will emphasize the province’s
fiscal strength compared with other jurisdictions.  Triple-A rated British Columbia has a ratio of debt to
gross domestic product of 17.5 percent, compared with about 85
percent for  France , 120 percent for  Italy  and 160 percent for
 Greece , according to B.C. government figures.  Ontario Comparison  British Columbia’s benchmark 5.75 percent bond maturing in
January 2039 yields 3.52 percent, or 5 basis points less than
comparable debt sold by Ontario,  Canada ’s most-populous
province.  Ontario is grappling with a C$16 billion deficit, a net
debt-to-GDP ratio of about 37 percent and an unemployment rate
of 8.1 percent. B.C.’s  jobless rate  was 6.9 percent in January.  The Canadian dollar has traded near parity against the U.S.
currency, reducing the competitiveness of Ontario manufacturers.
At the same time, British Columbia’s economy has benefited from
higher prices for commodities such as copper and metallurgical
coal, aiding firms such as  Teck Resources Ltd. (TCK/B)  and Westshore
Terminals Investment Corp. The province has been hurt by falling
natural gas prices and weak demand for lumber for U.S. home-
building.  The next election in British Columbia is scheduled for May
2013. Liberal Premier Christy Clark’s popularity has fallen
behind that of opposition  New Democratic Party  leader Adrian
Dix, according to an Angus Reid Public Opinion poll published
this month in the  Vancouver Sun  newspaper.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  