-- Carlsberg Reports Lower Profit, Forecasts No Improvement as Sales Weaken
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2012-02-20T11:22:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/carlsberg-profit-drops-on-weaker-russia-sales.html
Carlsberg AS (CARLB) , the world’s fourth-
largest brewer, said full-year profit declined 4.2 percent
because of a weaker Russian market and forecast no improvement
this year as sales fall in northern and western  Europe .  Operating profit excluding some items fell to 9.8 billion
kroner ($1.74 billion) last year, the Copenhagen-based company
said today, adding that earnings on that basis this year will be
“at the level of 2011.” Carlsberg also said it plans to
acquire the minority shares in its Russian Baltika unit at a
maximum cost of 4.4 billion kroner ($781 million).  Carlsberg rose as much as 3.7 percent in Copenhagen trading
after “it took the market some time to realize that guidance
was just cautious and that there was nothing nasty lurking in
the background,” said  Trevor Stirling , an analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein in  London .  Buying the rest of  Baltika (PKBA)  will be “immediately earnings-
enhancing” and provide “greater operational flexibility,” the
company said. Carlsberg owns 85 percent of Baltika, Russia’s
biggest brewer, which has struggled with increased levies on
beer and more stringent regulation of alcohol sales in Russia.  Carlsberg was  up  3.5 percent at 444.1 kroner as of 12:16
p.m., reversing a decline of as much as 3 percent.  Russian Contraction  The brewer said it expects “modest growth” in the Russian
market this year, while northern and western Europe will show
low single-digit declines, and Asian markets will probably grow.  Economic turmoil across Europe and Russian regulation have
weighed on sales at Carlsberg, which cut its full-year profit
forecast in August after bad weather in the region and high
commodity prices reduced profitability.  Russia ’s beer market contracted by about 3 percent last
year, Carlsberg estimated. The brewer’s market share in the
country slid to 37.4 percent in 2011 from 39.2 percent in 2010,
it said, citing data from Nielsen Holdings NV. Market-share
losses were due to increasing prices earlier than competitors,
which engaged in high levels of discounting, Carlsberg said.  “We see the greatest risk for Carlsberg into 2012 that it
continues to lose volume share in Russia,”  Melissa Earlam , an
analyst at UBS AG in London, wrote in a note published before
the results were released.  ‘Not Satisfactory’  Chief Executive Officer Joergen Buhl Rasmussen said today
that Carlsberg is in a better position to reverse Russian share
losses. Speaking in a Bloomberg television interview, the CEO
described last year’s decline as “not satisfactory.”  Sales in Russia got a temporary boost in the fourth quarter
as suppliers and drinkers stocked up on beer in advance of a
Jan. 1 tax increase. Beer production in December rose 17.6
percent from a year earlier, then slid 17.7 percent in January,
according to the Federal Service of State Statistics of Russia.
Carlsberg’s fourth-quarter organic revenue rose 11 percent.  The Danish brewer said it will make a voluntary offer for
the remaining outstanding shares of Baltika and will delist the
unit from trading “as soon as possible.”  The cost of increasing ownership will be as much as 6.5
billion kroner, with the maximum net cost being less “due to a
positive impact from financial arrangements,” Carlsberg said.  Operating profit last year was in line with the 9.78
billion-kroner median estimate of eight  analysts  surveyed by
Bloomberg, though less than the company’s forecast for profit on
that basis of about 10 billion kroner.  Cost of Production  Net revenue at Carlsberg was 63.6 billion kroner, a so-
called organic increase of 6 percent. That beat the average
estimate for growth of 5.4 percent. Organic revenue excludes
acquisitions, disposals and currency fluctuations.  The brewer expects “low single-digit” increases in the
cost of goods used to produce beer, Rasmussen said on a call
with analysts. Prices of commodities including malting barley, a
key beer ingredient, have risen, especially in eastern Europe
because of disappointing harvests last year.  Carlsberg, which increased its interests in companies in
 China ,  India ,  Vietnam  and  Laos  last year, said it will “explore
acquisition opportunities in growth markets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at   smarley1@bloomberg.net  