-- China’s Stock Index Climbs on Reserve-Ratio Cut; ICBC Advances
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-20T07:40:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/china-s-stocks-rise-extending-gains-to-sixth-week-on-reserve-ratio-cut.html
China’s benchmark stock index  rose,
extending its longest weekly winning streak since 2010, after
the central bank announced a cut in  reserve requirements  for the
first time this year to bolster economic growth.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd.  and  Bank of
China Ltd. (3988)  paced gains for financial stocks after reserve ratios
were lowered by a half percentage point. China Vanke Co. led a
gauge of real-estate companies to a one-week high after a
central bank adviser said the nation needs targeted “fine-
tuning” of its property market. China CNR Corp., the nation’s
second-biggest train maker, dropped after the regulator approved
a plan to sell new shares.  “The market will react positively to the reserve-ratio
cut,” said Wu Kan, a Shanghai-based  fund manager  at Dazhong
Insurance Co., which oversees $285 million. “The turning point
for liquidity has appeared. What we want to see next is if the
slowdown in economic growth can be halted after these measures
are implemented.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  climbed 6.42 points, or 0.3
percent, to 2,363.60 at the close. The  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  rose 0.1
percent to 2,540.71. The  Bloomberg China-US 55 Index (CH55BN) , the
measure of the most-traded U.S.-listed Chinese companies, slid
0.2 percent on Jan. 17 in  New York .  The  Shanghai  Composite advanced 0.2 percent last week,
capping a fifth week of gains and the longest winning streak
since Nov. 5, 2010, on speculation the government would reduce
the reserve ratio a second time after cutting them Nov. 30.  Investors Waited  The proportion of cash that lenders must set aside will
fall half a percentage point from Feb. 24, the central bank said
Feb. 18 on its  website . A 50 basis-point cut may add 400 billion
yuan ($63 billion) to the financial system, according to
 Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  The previous
reduction was the first since 2008.  “The markets have been awaiting this RRR cut since
end-2011,” Lu Ting, a Hong Kong-based economist at the Merrill
Lynch unit of Bank of America, wrote in a report. “This RRR cut
is to some extent a surprise and will definitely be positive for
markets in the coming week.”  The Bank of America economist, who had forecast a reserve-
ratio cut in the first quarter, said the central bank will
reduce the ratio twice more before the end of this year. Bank of
America was rated first for Asia research in 2011 by
Institutional Investor magazine.  The Shanghai Composite has rebounded 7.5 percent this year,
after falling a combined 33 percent in the previous two years.
The gain lags behind a 16 percent jump for the  MSCI Emerging
Markets Index (MXEF)  and a 17 percent rally for the  Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese companies that are publicly traded
in  Hong Kong .  Top Buys  China’s A-share market may start to catch up once the
easing cycle is confirmed, Minggao Shen and Ben Wei, analysts at
Citigroup, wrote in a report dated yesterday.  ICBC, the nation’s biggest Chinese bank, gained 0.2 percent
to 4.40 yuan.  Bank of China , the third largest, added 0.3
percent to 3.03 yuan.  Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. , the
fourth biggest, climbed 0.7 percent to 2.72 yuan.  “We believe RRR cuts are positive for banking shares
mainly because monetary easing is a key catalyst for a valuation
re-rating in our view,” Citigroup analysts said in a report.
“We expect earnings at the bigger banks to be more resilient
and hence our preference for the big banks.”  PetroChina Co., the nation’s biggest oil company, rose 1.1
percent to 10.29 yuan.  Property Outlook  The reserve-ratio cut will be “great news” for stocks as
it signals the government is encouraging banks to lend to small
companies hurt by the nation’s credit crunch,  Gavin Parry ,
managing director of Hong Kong-based Parry International Trading
Ltd., wrote in an e-mail yesterday.  The reduction is further evidence that liquidity will
improve after the government set a higher target for 2012 money
supply growth, he said. China’s M2 will probably grow by about
14 percent this year, the central bank estimates. That compares
with a 13.6 percent increase in 2011.  A gauge of property stocks in the Shanghai Composite added
0.6 percent, its highest close since Feb. 10. Vanke, the largest
developer, gained 0.5 percent to 7.83 yuan. Rival Poly Real
Estate Group Co. advanced 0.6 percent to 10.77 yuan.  China needs targeted “fine-tuning” of its  property
market , while maintaining its property control directions,  Li Daokui , an adviser to the central bank, said on his blog on Feb.
19. His comments came after China’s January home prices recorded
their worst performance in at least a year, with none of the 70
cities monitored by the government posting gains.  Prices in 47 of the cities fell, while home values in the
remaining 23 were unchanged from December, the National
Statistics Bureau said in a statement on Feb. 18. New home
prices in the nation’s four major cities of Shanghai, Beijing,
Shenzhen and Guangzhou declined for a fourth month.  China CNR slipped 0.2 percent to 4.55 yuan. The railcar
maker received approval from the  China  Securities Regulatory
Commission for a placement of about 2.1 billion new shares, it
said in an exchange statement.  --Zhang Shidong. Editors: Allen Wan, Richard Frost  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  