-- China Cuts Reserve-Ratio for Growth as Inflation Deters Interest-Rate Move
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-20T04:19:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/china-to-add-to-reserve-ratio-cuts.html
China  is seen making more cuts to
banks’ reserve requirements to fuel lending and sustain economic
growth as the housing market cools and  Europe ’s sovereign-debt
crisis weighs on exports.  The proportion of cash that lenders must set aside will
fall half a percentage point from Feb. 24, the central bank said
Feb. 18 on its  website . Standard Chartered Plc forecasts at
least three more reductions this year, while  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) 
sees a minimum of two.  The ruling Communist Party aims to sustain the nation’s
expansion without undermining a campaign to tame inflation that
saw home prices drop in 47 of the 70 biggest cities in January.
Policy makers may refrain from interest-rate cuts until nearer
mid-year when consumer-price gains have slowed to below 3
percent from 4.5 percent last month, HSBC economist  Qu Hongbin 
said yesterday in  Hong Kong .  “We expect further easing measures from Beijing in the
coming months, such as bigger new loans and at least two
additional 50 basis point reserve-ratio cuts,” Qu said.
 Interest rates  will “remain a secondary monetary policy tool.”  The Shanghai Composite Index rose 0.9 percent as of 11:30
a.m. local time, extending a five-week winning streak. Asian
stocks rallied and metals gained.  Jin Qi, an assistant governor of the central bank, said
that monetary policy will remain “prudent” in the face of a
“grim” international situation and price pressures and
imbalances in the domestic economy. Her comments were in a
statement on the central bank’s website yesterday.  Extra Cash  A 50 basis-point cut may add 400 billion yuan ($63 billion)
to the financial system, according to  Australia & New Zealand
Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  UBS AG says the move frees up about 350
billion yuan and may have been triggered by tight interbank
liquidity. The previous reduction was the first since 2008.  Data reported the day of the central bank announcement
showed the effect of government curbs to deflate property
bubbles and make housing more affordable. Prices failed to rise
in any of the 70 cities, according to the statistics bureau.  A deteriorating outlook for the European Union and a
“sharper-than-expected” deceleration in property investment in
China are the biggest risks for the economy, according to Chang Jian, a Hong Kong-based economist at Barclays Capital Asia Ltd.
who previously worked for the  World Bank . Chang predicted two
more reserve-ratio cuts this year and no change in rates, adding
that the government has more room to use fiscal policy to
support growth.  Money-Supply Estimate  A central bank estimate that M2, the broad measure of  money
supply , will increase 14 percent this year implies that reserve
ratios must fall further, according to analysts at lenders such
as  China Construction Bank Corp. (939)  The latest reduction means the
nation’s largest lenders must set aside 20.5 percent of
deposits, down from 21 percent, based on previous statements.  While some economists had predicted a cut before last
month’s Lunar New Year holiday, the People’s Bank of China
instead used reverse-repurchase contracts to add money to the
financial system.  China follows  Japan  in expanding monetary easing even as
global equity markets are buoyed by signs of strength in the
 U.S. economy  and optimism that Europe’s fiscal crisis will be
contained. In the U.S., the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has
climbed to near the highest level since 2008 after that nation’s
jobless rate fell and as  Greece  moved closer to securing another
bailout.  Official Concern  “Chinese policy makers are very much concerned about a
possible deeper slowdown in domestic growth,” said Yao Wei, a
Hong Kong-based economist with Societe Generale SA.  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , Europe’s largest carmaker, says sales in
China, the company’s biggest market, fell 4.5 percent last
month.  Gross domestic product  grew 8.9 percent in the fourth
quarter from a year earlier, the slowest pace since the first
half of 2009.  Inflation was at a three-month high last month, boosted by
holiday spending, while exports and imports fell for the first
time in two years and new lending was the lowest for a January
in five years.  While China’s commerce ministry describes the trade outlook
as “grim,” Vice President  Xi Jinping  said Feb. 17 that there
will be no “hard landing” for the world’s second-biggest
economy.  Economic ‘Fine-tuning’  Before the reserve-ratio move, Premier  Wen Jiabao  had said
that “fine-tuning” of policies was needed this quarter, with
the economic conditions deserving attention.  “We have to make a proper judgment as early as possible
when things happen and take quick action,” Wen was cited as
saying in a Xinhua News Agency report published Feb. 12.  Before the central-bank announcement,  Ken Peng , a Beijing-
based economist at BNP Paribas SA, said the Chinese government
needs to be “careful not to overshoot monetary loosening, as it
did in the financial crisis.”  Besides inflation risks, lingering effects of record
lending in 2009 and 2010 include the danger that local-
government financing vehicles will default, saddling banks with
bad loans.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  