-- China Swaps Fall by Most Since December After Reserve-Ratio Cut
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2012-02-20T08:48:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/china-swaps-fall-by-most-in-11-weeks-after-reserve-ratio-cut.html
China ’s interest-rate swaps fell by
the most since December after the central bank cut reserve
 requirements  for lenders to help ease a cash shortage in the
financial system.  The People’s Bank of China said over the weekend it will
reduce the proportion of cash that banks must set aside by half
a percentage point to 20.5 percent from Feb. 24. Standard
Chartered Plc forecasts at least three more reductions this
year, while HSBC Holdings Plc sees a minimum of two.  “The cut itself wasn’t a surprise, but markets had
slightly scaled down their expectations for near-term action,”
 Frances Cheung , a strategist at Credit Agricole CIB in Hong
Kong, wrote in a research note today.  The one-year swap rate, the fixed cost to receive the
seven-day repurchase rate, fell 10 basis points, or 0.10
percentage point, to 3.32 percent in  Shanghai , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The decline was the most since Dec. 16.
Cheung forecast further reserve-ratio cuts of up to 200 basis
points this year.  A 50-basis point cut may add 400 billion yuan ($64 billion)
to the financial system, according to Australia & New Zealand
Banking Group Ltd. UBS AG says the move frees up about 350
billion yuan and may have been triggered by tight interbank
liquidity. The previous reduction in December was the first
since 2008.  Repo Rate Steady  The Communist Party aims to sustain the nation’s expansion
without undermining a campaign to tame inflation that saw home
prices drop in 47 of the 70 biggest cities in January. Policy
makers may refrain from interest-rate cuts until nearer mid-year
when consumer-price gains have slowed to below 3 percent from
4.5 percent last month, HSBC economist  Qu Hongbin  said yesterday
in  Hong Kong .  The People’s Bank of China gauged demand for 28- and 91-day
 repurchase agreements  this week, according to a trader at a
primary dealer required to bid at the auctions. The central bank
didn’t gauge demand for bill sales, the trader said. The
monetary authority has suspended one-year bill sales for seven
weeks and three-month securities for eight weeks.  The  seven-day repurchase rate , a gauge of funding
availability in the financial system, rose six basis points to
5.38 percent, according to a weighted average compiled by the
National Interbank Funding Center. The yield on government debt
due August 2021 was down three basis points at 3.52 percent.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 