-- China Curbing Overcapacity Helps GM Set Goal for Doubling Deliveries: Cars
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-20T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/china-curbing-overcapacity-helps-gm-set-goal.html
China  is clamping down on
overcapacity in the world’s biggest automobile market,
benefiting companies with entrenched production and sales, such
as  General Motors Co. (GM) , while hurting newcomers to the market.  Foreign automakers received preferential treatment for
seven years on their Chinese plants as the country sought
foreign investment. Now, the carmakers will only be eligible for
incentives on factories approved by the government before Jan.
30, the nation’s top economic planner said on its  website  Dec.
29. More important, the rules signal that China will be less
inclined to sign off on new applications, according to research
firm LMC Automotive.  “The message is that you’re not welcome here anymore; we
have enough guests,” said  John Zeng , Shanghai-based director of
Asian forecasting at LMC Automotive.  The push may result in China shutting its doors to new
foreign carmakers, benefiting earlier entrants including GM and
 Volkswagen AG (VOW) , as their future expansion plans were probably
approved by the government already, according to consulting firm
Booz & Co.  “For existing players, it’s helpful because you slow down
the excess competition you have here in China, which is
ferocious,” said Ivo Naumann, Shanghai-based managing director
at AlixPartners.  GM, the top foreign automaker in China, on Feb. 16 reported
record net income of $9.19 billion for 2011. Its market share in
the country climbed above 13 percent last year, more than triple
the 4.1 percent it held in 2001, according to the company.  Room for Growth  GM is betting demand will accelerate in China. Vehicle
ownership in China was equivalent to 4.7 percent of the
population, compared with about 51 percent in  Japan  and 81
percent in the U.S., according to 2009 figures from the Japan
Automobile Manufacturers Association.  The Detroit-based company plans to double deliveries in the
country to 5 million by 2015. It is close to receiving approval
to build a 7 billion yuan ($1.1 billion) factory, the Hubei
Environmental Protection Bureau said on its website this month.  China’s policy change comes as the government looks to move
external investment into different industries, said  Kevin Wale ,
GM’s China president, on Feb. 15.  “In the near term, I don’t see a dramatic change in the
way the Chinese government wants to run the automotive
industry,” he said in Shanghai.  China Absentees  Volkswagen said on Jan. 6 the company will add a seventh
car plant in China as it expands production capacity to 3
million vehicles a year.  Those who haven’t begun manufacturing cars in the country
may be the most hurt by China’s move to control capacity,
according to Tzeshen Cheam, a Hong Kong-based analyst at CIMB
Securities HK.  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT) ’s Jaguar Land Rover, Subaru-
maker  Fuji Heavy Industries Ltd. (7270) ,  Renault SA (RNO)  and  Fiat SpA (F) ’s
Chrysler Group LLC don’t make vehicles in China.  While Renault and Chrysler have expressed interest in
building cars in the country, Jaguar may be first to test the
government’s resolve to limit capacity in a country where
foreign carmakers are required to partner with a domestic
company before making vehicles.  Jaguar is in talks with Wuhu, China-based Chery Automobile
Co. to form a venture to jointly build vehicles there, two
people with direct knowledge of the matter said Feb 3. Del
Sehmar, a Jaguar spokesman in Mumbai, declined to comment on the
company’s China plans.  Partner Limits  Fuji Heavy has failed to win regulatory approval to build
in China because the government considers the company part of
Toyota, which already has the limit of two manufacturing
partners, three people familiar with the matter said in
September. President Yasuyuki Yoshinaga said this month the
Subaru maker, which is 16 percent owned by Toyota, will keep
pursuing its China plans until the end of the fiscal year in
March.  “Foreign automakers need China more than the country needs
them,” said CIMB Securities’ Cheam.  China has reason to be concerned about overcapacity.
Passenger-vehicle sales slowed last year, trailing growth in the
U.S. for the first time in at least 14 years. The market is
crowded with more than 70 producers, some of which failed to
sell a single car last year. The market share of Chinese brands
in January fell almost 4 percentage points from a year earlier,
according to the China Association of Automobile Manufacturers,
even as German and U.S. carmakers increased their share by at
least 1.5 percentage points.  Overcapacity Looms  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411) , a Tokyo-based financial
services firm, estimated in December that overcapacity in the
nation’s  auto industry  began emerging last year and the glut
will worsen every year through 2015.  The incentives including exemptions of  import duties  on
plant equipment and lower taxes expired Jan. 30, the first
business day of the Chinese lunar year, after the  National
Development and Reform Commission  removed auto manufacturing
from catalog of industries in which external investment is
“encouraged.” A fax to the NDRC’s press office for comment was
unanswered.  “Inclusion in an encouraged foreign investment category is
a signal to officials throughout the government to green-light a
project,” said Lester Ross, a Beijing-based partner at  Wilmer
Cutler Pickering Hale & Dorr LLP (1221L) . “A project which is not
listed in the catalog is merely deemed to be ‘permitted,’ so the
relevant officials have to be persuaded to approve the project,
effectively slowing it down as well as reducing its eligibility
for preferences, like driving through a series of yellow
lights.”  Longer Waits  Bill Russo , a senior adviser at Booz & Co. who was formerly
Chrysler Group LLC’s China head, said the rule changes mean
carmakers may lose out on cost savings of about $20 million to
build a factory and wait longer than the average one to two
years needed to receive approvals and business licenses.  Russo said projects that focus on hybrid or electric cars,
invest in the lesser-developed regions of China or bring in key
technologies may have an easier time obtaining approvals after
the NDRC kept low-emission vehicles on the “encouraged” list.  The policy shift doesn’t mean China is cutting off the flow
of foreign investment into the automotive industry, LMC’s Zeng
said. Premier  Wen Jiabao ’s government wants to divert investment
into other areas such as into auto components and nurturing
local research and development capability, especially in hybrid
and electric vehicles, he said.  “China is still encouraging development of the auto
industry in China,” Zeng said. “The government focus has just
shifted from made-in-China to create-in-China.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Liza Lin in  Shanghai  at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  