-- U.S., Mexico Sign Accord for Joint Oil Exploration in Gulf
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2012-02-20T17:40:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/clinton-signs-accord-in-mexico-for-oil-exploration-with-state-owned-pemex.html
U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary
Clinton  and Mexican Foreign Minister Patricia Espinosa signed an
agreement today for development of oil and gas reservoirs that
straddle the two nations’ boundaries in the  Gulf of Mexico .  The agreement is the first of its kind signed by the U.S.,
establishing a legal framework and creating incentives for U.S.
energy companies to develop oil and gas resources jointly with
 Petroleos Mexicanos , the Mexican state oil company known as
Pemex. When it comes into force, the agreement will end the
current moratorium on oil exploration and production in the
Western Gap portion of the Gulf of Mexico.  “With this, we are setting aside the old fear that
honestly exists among many Mexicans that  Mexico ’s oil could be
extracted from the other side,” said Mexican President Felipe
Calderon. “Any joint reservoir will be jointly exploited,” and
we will all gain the benefits.  U.S. Secretary of the Interior Kenneth Salazar called the
agreement an historic step that “opens to door to previously
off-limits areas in the Gulf of Mexico,” an area larger than
the state of  Delaware .  ’Under a Moratorium’  Salazar told reporters on a conference call that the area
has “essentially been under a moratorium” because of the
uncertainty about who owned the resources and how potential
revenue would be shared.  “These reservoirs could hold considerable reserves that
would benefit the  United States  and Mexico alike,” Clinton said
at the signing ceremony in Los Cabos, Mexico, on the sidelines
of an informal meeting of Group of 20 foreign ministers. “But
they don’t necessarily stop neatly at our maritime boundary.
This could lead to disputes if a company discovers a reservoir
that straddles the boundary -- disputes, for example, over who
should do the extraction and how much they should extract.”  The agreement will help to resolve issues such as whether
oil extracted from the Mexican side of the Gulf but sent
directly to crude terminals in the U.S. is considered Pemex
output and imported crude, and whether Mexico will charge
royalties on it.  Both Sides Now  If no joint exploration deals are made between U.S.
companies and Pemex, the agreement allows each side to exploit
its share of hydrocarbons while protecting the other nation’s
interests, according to the U.S. State Department.  The agreement also allows for joint inspection teams to
ensure compliance with safety laws and environmental rules. The
U.S. would also help Mexico, which is interested in drilling in
deeper waters, develop the capability to respond to spills,
Salazar said.  A shortage of investment in technology, exploration and
production, and a ban on private-sector involvement has hindered
Mexico’s petroleum production in recent years. Mexican law
banned private companies from exploring, producing and refining
crude oil until legislation championed by Calderon passed in
2008, allowing performance-based service contracts.  Calderon’s government has said deep-water offshore
exploration and production in regions such as the transboundary
area may be Mexico’s best chance to reverse declining output
from the country’s largest reserves.  Second-Largest Source  Mexico was the second-largest source of U.S. oil imports in
2010,  exporting  1.3 million barrels a day to its northern
neighbor, according to the U.S. Energy Information
Administration.  The oil sector generated 14 percent of Mexico’s export
earnings in 2010, according to Mexico’s central bank, while oil
earnings account for 32 percent of Mexican government revenue,
according to the EIA.  At the G20 meeting yesterday, Clinton called on developed
and emerging economies to eliminate unfair advantages in the
global financial and trade systems, such as those enjoyed by
state-owned enterprises and sovereign wealth funds.  Underscoring the “need to update the rules of the road”
so businesses and economies compete on a level playing field,
Clinton warned that free economies face an mounting challenge
from “‘state capitalism,’’ which she defined as ‘‘the rise of
sovereign wealth and the growing presence and influence of
state-owned and state-controlled enterprises that operate
globally.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Los Cabos, Mexico at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  