-- Commerzbank Defends Reneging on Bonus After German Lender Fell Off ‘Cliff’
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2012-02-20T16:10:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/commerzbank-defends-cutting-dresdner-bonuses-after-bank-fell-off-a-cliff-.html
Commerzbank AG (CBK)  didn’t act
dishonestly in going back on a promise to pay bankers from a
guaranteed bonus pool, the German lender’s attorney said in a
London trial over payments to Dresdner Kleinwort staff.  Commerzbank, which took over Dresdner in 2009 and cut
bonuses by 90 percent or more, is defending a lawsuit brought by
104 Dresdner bankers who want individual payouts of as much as 2
million euros ($2.7 million).  Stefan Jentzsch, Dresdner’s former CEO, had promised at a
2008 company meeting to set aside 400 million euros for
discretionary pay. Dresdner’s record loss that year justified
changing the policy and Jentzsch’s pledge wasn’t legally
binding, Commerzbank lawyer Thomas Linden said.  “It may be perfectly honorable to withdraw from a non-
binding commitment in circumstances when the business has fallen
off a cliff,” Linden told the judge in closing arguments today.
“Every banker, we say, in the U.K. knows that until you have a
document which sets out the award, you don’t have an
entitlement.”  European banks face pressure from governments and
regulators over pay. Executives at  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  and
 Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  should have to give up bonuses
so individuals are not rewarded for failure, the U.K. Treasury
said today, while European financial services chief  Michel Barnier  has called for new curbs on excessive compensation.  Unpopular Bonuses  The case “comes at a time when the words ’banker’s bonus’
are perhaps not the most popular in the English language,”
Andrew Hochhauser, a lawyer representing some of the Dresdner
claimants, said in his closing arguments.  Nonetheless, the 2008 bonus pool promise had been agreed
with then-owners  Allianz SE (ALV)  in consultation with the U.K.
Financial Services Authority as a way to stop staff leaving
Dresdner, he said.  “It’s not just a mere declaration; it’s not just a
unilateral management policy,” Hochhauser said. “It’s giving
something, something of value, added to what they already
have.”  Commerzbank Chief Executive Officer  Martin Blessing  told
the court last month that while he had disappointed staff by
reducing bonuses, the bank, which took an 18.2 billion-euro
bailout from the German government during the credit crunch, had
to consider the interests of other employees, shareholders and
the general public.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  