-- Copper Gains as Top Consumer China Eases Policy Further to Stoke Lending
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2012-02-20T18:25:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/copper-rises-as-demand-may-strengthen-after-china-s-latest-policy-easing.html
Copper rose in London, rebounding
from the longest losing streak since September, after  China 
eased  reserve requirements  to stoke lending in the world’s
biggest consumer of the metal.  The proportion of cash that Chinese lenders must set aside
will fall half a percentage point as of Feb. 24, the People’s
Bank of China said Feb. 18. The reduction was the second in
three months. Copper also climbed after money managers  increased 
bets on price gains to the highest level since August.  “The cut is certainly a step in the right direction,” Nic Brown, head of commodities research at Natixis Commodity Markets
Ltd. in London, said by e-mail.  Copper for three-month delivery settled 0.7 percent higher
at $8,235.50 a metric ton on the  London  Metal Exchange. Prices
slid 6.7 percent over six sessions before today. Copper for May
delivery rose 1.1 percent to $3.7565 a pound by 1:06 p.m. on the
Comex in  New York , where floor trading was closed today for the
Presidents’ Day holiday.  Managed-money funds held net-long positions, or wagers on
rising Comex copper prices, of 14,817 futures and options
contracts as of Feb. 14, versus 12,298 a week earlier, according
to the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission.  Snowfall in Chile  Collahuasi , the world’s third-biggest copper mine, was
operating normally after snowstorms disrupted operations at the
mine site in northern  Chile , company spokeswoman Bernardita
Fernandez said today by phone.  European governments moved toward a second rescue of
 Greece , calculating that the cost of a fresh bailout is a price
worth paying to prevent a default that could shatter the euro
area. Finance ministers will weigh terms of new Greek loans and
a possible contribution by central banks at a meeting today.  “There are still risks for a retracement in the near term
as long as Chinese consumers remain absent,” Stefan Graber, an
analyst at Credit Suisse AG, said in a report today.  Aluminum, zinc, lead, nickel and tin rose in London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  