-- Daiwa SB Australia Set to Pass Kokusai Global as Asia’s Biggest Bond Fund
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-02-21T07:18:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/daiwa-sb-australia-set-to-pass-kokusai-global-as-asia-s-biggest-bond-fund.html
Daiwa SB Investments Ltd.’s
Australian bond  fund  is poised to overtake Kokusai Global
Sovereign Open as  Asia ’s biggest mutual fund this year,
bolstered by demand for the nation’s short-term yields that are
higher than those of riskier long-term bonds.  The Daiwa SB Short-Term Australian Dollar Bond Open Fund
increased assets almost 10 times from 2009 through 2011 to 1.18
trillion yen ($14.8 billion) as of Dec. 31.  Global Sovereign
Open (.KKASSET)  shrank from 4.7 trillion yen to 1.85 trillion yen in the
same period. Daiwa’s Australia fund handed investors an annual
average gain of 16 percent the past three years. Kokusai, which
invests in currencies and bonds in the world’s biggest markets,
delivered returns of less than 1 percent.  Daiwa SB’s Tokyo-based fund buys Australian dollars and
invests them in short-term debt that earns interest based on
what  Reserve Bank  Governor  Glenn Stevens  does with the target
for overnight lending. Even after the bank cut the rate twice
last year to 4.25 percent, it’s still higher than the yields on
any of the nation’s bonds except for 15-year debt, the longest
maturity. The benchmark rate compares with almost zero percent
in  Japan  and the U.S.  Simple Appeal  “My fund is simple,” said Yoshisada Ishide, 43, who
manages the investment for Daiwa SB in  Tokyo , part of Japan’s
second-biggest brokerage after Nomura Holdings Inc. “The yield
is getting lower, but it’s still attractive compared to other
major nations. The Reserve Bank won’t cut rates aggressively.
It’s still attractive to Japanese investors. Currently we are
getting good inflows.”  Australian employers added 46,300 jobs in January, the most
in 14 months, according to a government report Feb. 16. The gain
led traders to reduce bets on the size of central bank interest-
rate cuts over the year ahead by the most among the Group of 10
developed nation currencies.  The RBA will lower its target rate by 45 basis points
within a year, interest-rate swaps show, versus 100 basis points
forecast on Jan. 31, according to Credit Suisse Group AG
indexes.  Australia  is attractive to investors because it’s one of
only 12 countries that still hold AAA grades from all three
major ratings companies. Economic growth in China is helping
drive demand for Australia’s goods. China consumes 28 percent of
its merchandise exports including coal and iron ore.  Daiwa SB is drawing interest as it grows, said Hideo Shimomura, who competes against it as chief fund investor at
Mitsubishi UFJ Asset Management Co., a unit of Japan’s biggest
publicly traded bank.  Seen as Safe  “A fund of 1 trillion yen has status,” Shimomura said.
“It’s a type of brand. Australia funds are the only type of
bond funds that are drawing money. They’re quite popular. People
think that Australia is a safe haven, and they offer a lot of
return, not only from the yield but also from the currency.”  Kokusai’s Global Sovereign Open is also betting on
Australia, with 10.8 percent of its assets there versus 1
percent in the Citigroup World Government Bond Index, the
benchmark it uses to gauge performance, as of Feb. 16, according
to the company’s website.  Global Sovereign’s annualized gain of 0.4 percent over the
past three years lags behind 52 percent of its peers, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Interest Rate Held  The Daiwa SB Australia  fund  surged 7.3 percent in the past
month and Kokusai Global increased 4 percent after the RBA’s
Stevens on Feb. 7 unexpectedly refrained from cutting rates,
sending the local currency to a six-month high against the  U.S.
dollar .  A rally in the Australian currency to a record $1.1081 in
July is coming to an end, according to Bloomberg surveys of
economists, making it tougher for Daiwa SB to maintain its pace
of growth. The currency will buy $1.04 by year-end, the survey
shows, versus $1.0724 as of 7:15 a.m. in  London .  “The Daiwa SB fund’s total return has made it popular,
beating Kokusai Global Sovereign Open,” measured by
performance, Ryo Watanabe, a Tokyo-based analyst at fund
research company Morningstar Japan K.K., wrote in an e-mail.
“Daiwa SB’s Australia’s assets may grow, but it’s doubtful they
can keep up the current pace because the Australian dollar may
fall.”  Ishide said there’s a possibility that inflows will slow in
2012 as the RBA trims rates, even if the cuts are less than
investors expected at the start of the year.  Size hasn’t been a problem so far, he said.  “I don’t have any trouble investing in Australia,” Ishide
said. “The fixed-income market is growing rapidly. We can find
inventory any time.”  Australia’s debt market is equivalent to $247 billion,
outranked only by Japan,  China ,  India  and  South Korea  among
nations in Asia and the Pacific.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  