-- Disputed Sudan Oil Can Unload After Court Ruling, Trafigura Says
-- B y   J a r e d   F e r r i e
-- 2012-02-20T15:43:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/disputed-sudan-oil-can-unload-after-court-ruling-trafigura-says.html
A crude oil cargo that’s been
stranded at sea because of a dispute between Sudan and  South
Sudan  can unload in Japan after a court ruling in  London , oil
trader Trafigura Beheer BV said.  “We can confirm that the English court has ordered that
the delivery can be made,” Trafigura, which bought the disputed
cargo, said in a statement. “The court will hold all proceeds
related to the cargo until ownership is legally established.”  South Sudan declared independence in July, taking control
of fields producing of about 75 percent of Sudan’s 490,000
barrels a day of crude output. The division of oil resources has
become a subject of contention between the two countries as
South Sudan claims the Sudanese government in Khartoum is
illegally selling the crude.  The oil tanker Ratna Shradha has been sitting off the coast
of southern  Japan  since Feb. 14 and hasn’t docked, according to
AISLive data compiled by Bloomberg. The ship loaded about
600,000 barrels of Nile Blend in Sudan on Jan. 19.  The tanker’s owner asked the court to rule on the matter
because ownership of the cargo is disputed, said  Pagan Amum ,
South Sudan’s chief negotiator in talks with Sudan.  “We will leave no stone unturned to recover the value of
oil stolen by the government of Sudan,” Amum said. “We are
encouraged by the steps taken by owners of the ship taken in the
English court.”  An employee of Chambal Fertiliser and Chemicals Ltd., the
Indian company that owns the ship, who answered the phone today,
said nobody was available to comment. JX  Nippon Oil (5001)  and Energy,
scheduled to take delivery of the oil, also declined to comment.  Ordered Shutdown  South Sudan ordered a shutdown of crude production after
accusing Sudan of diverting fuel to its refinery, forcing
companies to load oil onto ships it controlled, and blockading
other shipments. Sudan said it confiscated crude to cover unpaid
fees it’s owed for allowing the landlocked country to transport
oil via a pipeline to  Port Sudan  on the  Red Sea .  Sudan’s foreign ministry spokesman, al-Obeid Murawih,
dismissed the dispute over Trafigura’s purchase.  “Whether we sold the oil or we did not, consumed it or not,
the buyers are willing to buy or rejecting -- all these don’t
help solving the core problem, which is reaching an oil deal
between two countries,” he said by phone yesterday from
Khartoum.  Dar Blend  Sudan put 1.9 million barrels of Dar Blend onto three
tankers, comprised of 650,000 barrels on the Sea Sky, 750,000
barrels on the Al Nouf and 600,000 barrels on the ETC Isis,
according to letters from  oil companies  that were provided by
Amum. Sudan also loaded 600,000 barrels of Nile Blend onto the
Ratna Sharada, the documents showed.  The Sea Sky and Al Nouf remain in the Fujairah area, on the
coast of Sudan, according to AISLive data. The ETC Isis is
located off  Singapore .  The U.K. court decision for the sale to take place with the
funds kept in escrow is “significant,” said Marc Mercer, an
Africa associate with the Eurasia Group in London.  “The Trafigura experience makes the north’s sale of
southern oil even more difficult to other such companies,” he
said today in an e-mailed response to questions. “Litigation in
court as well as the possibility of further proceedings should
the oil be determined as stolen will be costly for all sides --
financially and reputation wise.”  Sudan and South Sudan are scheduled to meet in the coming
weeks in the Ethiopian capital,  Addis Ababa , for the next round
of negotiations on issues outstanding since the south separated.
These include determining the status of the region of Abyei and
disputed sections of the border, as well as agreeing on an oil
revenue sharing arrangement.  Amum told reporters Feb. 15 that South  Sudan  will not begin
pumping oil again until a comprehensive agreement is reached,
which includes Sudan paying for southern oil it has confiscated.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jared Ferrie in Juba, South Sudan at 
 jferrie1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  