-- Medvedev Adviser Says Kudrin Would Be Better Prime Minister
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2012-02-20T13:09:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/medvedev-adviser-says-kudrin-would-be-better-prime-minister.html
An adviser to  Dmitry Medvedev  said
the outgoing Russian president should abandon plans to become
premier and make way for the man he fired last year as finance
minister,  Alexei Kudrin , who would do a better job.  Medvedev, 46, in September agreed to give up the chance of
a second term to allow Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin , 59, to
reclaim the Kremlin. Putin offered Medvedev the premier’s job in
return, a move that turned the president into a diminished
political figure, said  Igor Yurgens , who heads a research group
created by Medvedev, in an interview in Moscow Feb. 17.  Medvedev wouldn’t be “very successful in the job” because
Putin’s allies in the Cabinet would “tear him apart,” Yurgens
said, abandoning his support for the president for the first
time publicly. “Kudrin would be an ideal prime minister for an
interim period because he’s a highly regarded professional and
obviously enjoys the trust of future President Putin,” he said.  Middle-class anger at Putin’s planned Kremlin return and
allegations of fraud in Dec. 4 parliamentary elections in which
Putin’s party retained its majority ignited the largest anti-
government protests since the 1990s. Putin, who has been in
power for 12 years, is seeking a new six-year term in the March
4 election.  Forecast to Win  The Russian leader is forecast to win in the first round
with 58.6 percent of the vote, according to an opinion poll
published today by the All-Russian Center for the Study of
 Public Opinion . The state-run pollster interviewed 1,600 people
on Feb. 11-12 and had a margin of error of 3.4 percentage
points.  Putin can only overcome distrust of his rule among well-
educated Russians by delegating some power to a decisive Cabinet
that will implement economic and political changes demanded by
protesters, said Gleb Pavlovsky, who heads the Moscow-based
Effective Policy Foundation and has advised the Kremlin for more
than a decade.  “The main thing that Putin needs to do after the election
is to create a strong government, but everything that Medvedev
does makes that task harder,” Pavlovsky said in an interview in
the Russian capital last week.  Protégé Medvedev  Putin served as president from 2000 to 2008 and then moved
to the premiership to comply with constitutional  term limits ,
backing his protégé Medvedev to take his place.  As late as September, Yurgens, who heads the Institute of
Contemporary Development, was urging Medvedev to ignore Putin’s
wishes and seek a second term to implement his promises on
fighting corruption and diversifying the economy away from oil
and gas. Yurgens said he is now helping Kudrin set up a new
political party.  Medvedev discredited himself by ceding the Kremlin to
Putin, said Yurgens, who characterized Kudrin as being capable
of keeping a check on  government spending  while maintaining some
independence from the president.  “We wouldn’t have to worry about the government and its
spending and he would carry out political reforms,” said
Yurgens.  Firing Kudrin  Kudrin, 51, was the longest-serving finance minister in the
Group of Eight major economies until he was forced out by
Medvedev after publicly opposing increases in military spending.
During his tenure,  Russia  cut state debt to less than 10 percent
of gross domestic product and posted budget surpluses from 2000
to 2008.  Kudrin, in a radio interview broadcast in December, said
being offered the premiership was a possibility, adding that
Medvedev’s authority had decreased “significantly” after
agreeing to make way for Putin. The prime minister is aware of
Kudrin’s plans to set up a new party, said Yurgens.  Medvedev’s spokeswoman, Natalya Timakova, said she had
nothing to say about Yurgens’ switch in support to Kudrin.
“This is Yurgens’ personal opinion,” Timakova said today.
“There’s nothing here for me to comment on.” Putin’s
spokesman,  Dmitry Peskov , said that it’s too early to say
whether such a party would be a good development as he isn’t
aware of the details of the project. “The last legislative
initiatives are in fact aimed at activating political life in
the country,” Peskov said. The government responded to the
protests by promising to make it easier to register political
parties.  Opposition  Kudrin said Feb. 14 on his Twitter Inc. account that he had
held talks in January with pro-democracy groups involved in the
protests to consolidate them into a single entity, without
reaching an agreement. His spokesman, Pavel Kuznetsov, declined
to comment further on those efforts.  If Putin’s opponents don’t agree to join Kudrin’s movement,
that won’t deter him, said Yurgens, adding that billionaire
 Mikhail Prokhorov , who’s running in the presidential race on a
pro-business and pro-democracy ticket, would be welcome to take
part in the project.  A new Kudrin party may take part in parliamentary elections
if Putin agrees to hold a new vote, offering him the chance to
establish himself as a political leader, said Yurgens.  Medvedev this month swiped at Kudrin for his efforts to set
up the party, dismissing him as “no real opposition figure.”  Any new political movement needs to be led by “strong
people supported by the part of the population that believes in
liberal values, and not only by people who just decided to get
in on it,” Medvedev said in remarks posted on the Kremlin’s
website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  