-- Emerging-Market Stocks Head for 6-Month High as China Cuts Reserve Ratios
-- B y   J a s o n   W e b b   a n d   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2012-02-20T17:38:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/emerging-market-stocks-head-for-6-month-high-as-china-cuts-reserve-ratios.html
Emerging-market stocks rose, with
the benchmark index poised to close at a six-month high, as
European finance ministers moved toward a second rescue of
 Greece  and after  China  cut banks’ reserve requirements.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  increased 0.4 percent to
1,066.39 at 12:28 p.m. in New York, which would be the strongest
close since Aug. 4. The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  added 0.3
percent. The  Micex  (MICEX) rose 0.6 percent in  Russia  after Iran halted
some oil exports to  France  and the U.K. Mexico’s benchmark added
0.6 percent and Chile’s fell 0.2 percent.  Financial stocks were among the biggest gainers in MSCI’s
developing-nation index after the People’s Bank of China said it
will reduce the amount of cash lenders must set aside by half a
percentage point beginning Feb. 24. European leaders are meeting
in Brussels today to discuss a 130 billion-euro ($170 billion)
Greek rescue package.  “What this reserve requirement cut shows is the commitment
of the Chinese authorities toward monetary easing, and that
should secure a soft landing for the Chinese economy,” John
Lomax, an emerging-markets strategist at HSBC Holdings Plc, said
by phone from  London . The European meeting raises the
“possibility of some kind of Greek deal,” he said.  China Construction Bank Corp. (939)  and  China Life Insurance Co. (2628) 
each gained 1.1 percent in  Hong Kong .  OTP Bank Nyrt. (OTP) , the biggest bank in  Hungary , jumped 1.5
percent after rising as much as 2.6 percent as the  BUX Index (BUX) 
added 1.1 percent.  Greek Meeting  European officials attempting to fend off the euro area’s
first sovereign default will try to settle remaining disputes
today as they close in on a Greek bailout.  Finance ministers met at 3:30 p.m. in Brussels, joining
Greek Prime Minister Lucas Papademos, who arrived on the eve of
the gathering. Their talks on his country’s second bailout in
two years will aim to reconcile demands on Greek leaders, a
private-creditor debt swap, the role of the  European Central
Bank  and setting up an escrow account for interest payments.  OAO Sberbank (SBER) , Russia’s biggest lender, rose 0.8 percent,
and  OAO Novatek (NVTK) , the country’s second-largest natural gas
producer, increased 1 percent. Oil jumped 1.8 percent in New
York.  Alsea SAB, Mexico’s largest fast-food chain operator,
gained 2.1 percent and was poised for the highest closing price
since October 2007. Organizacion Soriana SAB, Mexico’s second-
biggest grocery store chain, gained 0.2 percent.  South Africa  The  ISE National 100 Index (XU100)  advanced 0.6 percent in
Istanbul, its highest level since Aug. 2. The  FTSE/JSE Africa
All Share Index (JALSH)  climbed 0.1 percent in Johannesburg as metals
prices gained.  The  Philippine Stock Exchange Index (PCOMP)  advanced 1.3 percent,
to a record high, and in  Vietnam  the  VN Index (VNINDEX)  jumped 2.7
percent. Taiwan’s  Taiex Index (TWSE)  rose 0.8 percent.  Markets in India and Brazil were closed today for public
holidays.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries increased one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 375, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  The  Markit iTraxx SovX CEEMEA Index  of eastern European,
Middle East and Africa credit-default swaps eased five basis
points to 296, according to data provider CMA.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Webb in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net ;
Ksenia Galouchko in  New York  at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  