-- Lend Lease Profit Falls as Europe, U.S. Sales Drop
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2012-02-20T21:49:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/lend-lease-profit-falls-3-8-on-declines-in-earnings-at-europe-u-s-units.html
(Corrects earnings per share in second paragraph of story
that was published yesterday.)  Lend Lease Group (LLC) ,  Australia ’s
biggest property developer, posted a 3.8 percent drop in first-
half profit after sales in Europe and the U.S. declined and said
it is in due diligence with potential partners on the funding of
its Barangaroo project in Sydney.  Net income  in the six months ended Dec. 31 fell to A$217.8
million ($235 million), or 38.1 Australian cents a share,
compared with A$226.5 million, or 40 cents a share, a year ago,
the Sydney-based company said in a statement to the Australian
stock exchange. The company’s dividend for the half fell to 16
cents from 20 cents a year ago.  “As a sign that Lend Lease may need to reinvest more
equity into Barangaroo, distribution per security was down,
despite flat earnings per share,” Winston Sammut, managing
director of Sydney-based Maxim Asset Management, said in an e-
mail. “Comments on Barangaroo are non-specific, and needed more
detail.”  Lend Lease   shares  rose 0.3 percent to A$7.31 at the close
of trading in Sydney. They’ve gained 2.1 percent so far this
year,  compared  with a 4.9 percent increase in the benchmark
S&P/ASX 200 index.  Lend Lease said it has been in exclusive due diligence
since November with potential investors to help fund Barangaroo.
It is also “progressing well” on leasing discussions with
prospective tenants, it said.  Clear Priorities  Media and analysts had speculated an agreement with
potential tenants and investors for Barangaroo may be delayed
after Lend Lease failed to make an announcement by the end of
December after flagging it would do so.  “The group has clear priorities and is focused on the
delivery of its major projects,” Steve McCann, managing
director of Lend Lease, said in the statement. “The group made
significant progress implementing its strategy including the
commencement of construction at Barangaroo South in Sydney.”  The company remains “cautious” about its outlook in the
medium term due to the uncertainty in global markets and its
impact on availability of funding, McCann said.  Lend Lease’s results were “ahead of expectations, with
stronger construction results,” Anthony Passe-de Silva, an
analyst at JP Morgan Chase & Co., who has an “overweight”
rating on the stock, wrote in a report. “The diverse
development pipeline should help the group grow earnings over
the medium term.”  Profit Breakdown  Operating profit rose 51 percent at the company’s
Australian business, and jumped 82.3 percent in its Asian unit.
It dropped 54.6 percent in its European business and was down
37.4 percent in the U.S., it said today.  The company reduced its exposure to the U.S. and  Europe ,
with Americas unit accounting for 6 percent of its total
business, from 10 percent a year ago, Lend Lease said. European
business made up 14 percent, compared with 34 percent a year
ago, while Australia accounted for 70 percent, up from 50
percent a year ago, it said.  Lend Lease also appointed Colin Carter, one of the founding
partners of the  Boston Consulting Group  in Australia, to its
board of directors, it said in a separate statement. Carter,
non-executive director of Wesfarmers Ltd. and Seek Ltd., will
join the board on April 2, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 Nsaminather1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  