-- Merkel as Europe’s Debt Crisis Iron Lady Bucks German Street on Greek Aid
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   L e o n   M a n g a s a r i a n
-- 2012-02-20T08:03:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/merkel-as-europe-s-debt-crisis-iron-lady-bucks-german-street-on-greek-aid.html
Angela Merkel  is having a Margaret Thatcher moment.  Having spent six years in office defying comparison with
Britain’s first woman prime minister, Merkel is being likened to
Thatcher as she steers Europe’s response to the financial crisis
with demands for debt reduction and tighter economic controls.
Media including the  Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung , the
newspaper of record in Germany’s financial hub, dub her
“Europe’s Iron Lady.”  Strengthened by record-low  joblessness  at home, Merkel has
rejected calls to either cut Greece loose from the euro area or
ease her conditions for aid. By bucking the German street and
steering the middle course, she is gambling that policy makers
will continue to prevent a euro meltdown, helping her win re-
election next year and match Thatcher’s third term.  “If Merkel were to go into elections with a collapsed euro
zone she’d have a lot of difficulty winning,” Giles Merritt,
head of Friends of  Europe , a Brussels-based research group that
promotes debate on the European Union, said in an interview.
“Finally her statesman side is kicking in.”  Merkel may be homing in on her platform for the election
next fall: enforcing the budget discipline that Germans want,
while fending off the breakup of the euro area as too risky to
contemplate for a country that has staked its post-World War II
role in Europe on promoting consensus. She has quashed an anti-
euro groundswell in her coalition, saying the solution is
“more, not less, Europe.”  ‘Doesn’t Arise’  “I don’t want Greece to leave the euro, and therefore the
question doesn’t arise,” Merkel, 57, told a student audience in
Berlin on Feb. 7. The costs of a crack in the euro region are
“incalculable,” she said.  The balancing act is paying off. Even as Germany bankrolls
bailouts from  Athens  to Dublin, the yield on the country’s 10-
year government bond on Jan. 13 dropped to a two-month low of
1.74 percent, after reaching an all-time euro-era low of 1.67
percent on Sept. 22.  Merkel’s poll ratings have risen since December to the
highest of her second term as she prodded French President
 Nicolas Sarkozy  to forge a  united front  favoring spending rigor
across the euro area and expanding the defense against crisis
contagion. Twenty-five of the EU’s 27 states have signed up to
her plan.  “She realizes that only with sticks, the European project
is not going to move forward,” Henrik Enderlein, a political
economist at the Hertie School of Governance in Berlin, said by
phone. “She also needs carrots. And the carrot is that  Germany 
is a pro-European country that wants to build something with the
other countries in a concerted fashion.”  ‘Leading With Others’  As Greeks chafe at a perceived German diktat, Merkel wants
to signal that “it’s not Germany leading the others, it’s
Germany leading with others,” Enderlein said. “This is the
message she wants to convey to her European partners.”  That means Merkel is facing down calls for dumping Greece
by business leaders such as Commerzbank AG supervisory board
chairman Klaus-Peter Mueller, who said Jan. 30 that Greece
should be freed of its “shackles” of the single currency.
 Franz Fehrenbach , chief executive officer of German auto-parts
supplier Robert Bosch GmbH, told Manager Magazin on Feb. 14 that
 Greece  should be ousted if it doesn’t quit voluntarily.  The chancellor’s unyielding stance is prompting the
comparisons with Thatcher, who famously dismissed criticism of
her budget cutting 18 months into her premiership, telling
members of her  Conservative Party  in 1980 that “the lady’s not
for turning.”  ‘Tough as Nails’  “Thatcher and Merkel are both tough as nails,” Gary Smith, executive director of the  American Academy  in Berlin, a
trans-Atlantic research institute, said in an interview. Both
conveyed that “they’re resolute and not flip-floppers.”  Like Thatcher, who  took on the miners  as she sought to
clamp down on Britain’s trade unions, Merkel hasn’t shied from
confrontation. Unlike Thatcher, she appeals to Germans because
she’s “cautious, modest and discreet,” Smith said. “With
Merkel at the helm, things are calm and Germany is doing well on
a global scale.”  What’s more, the two leaders’ respective attitudes to
Europe couldn’t be farther apart. Almost a quarter of a century
after Thatcher used a speech in the Belgian city of Bruges to
warn against a “European super-state exercising a new dominance
from Brussels,” Merkel is pressing for economic and political
union. That drive has sidelined the U.K. as Conservative Prime
Minister  David Cameron  refuses to join the German-inspired
European budget-discipline pact.  Kohl Protégée  Merkel, 57, a protégée of former Chancellor Helmut Kohl who
grew up in communist East Germany, didn’t come naturally to
building a united Europe, the goal of German leaders since the
aftermath of World War II. At a Christian Democratic party rally
last year, Merkel accused Spaniards and Portuguese of working
too little.  Kohl, who reunited East and  West Germany  in 1990 against
Thatcher’s wishes, warned in a journal article in September that
Germany can’t afford to disconnect its future from Europe’s.
Last July, Merkel lost her train of thought when a reporter
asked her about her passion for Europe. “What was the question?
Oh right, that passion,” she said.  Now, Merkel rebuffs national caricatures that pit
industrious against lazy Europeans and presents austerity as the
best hope of competing in the global economy for EU’s 500
million people.  ‘Lazy Germans’  “There are lazy Germans and there are hard-working
Germans,” Merkel said in a Sueddeutsche Zeitung newspaper
interview posted on her  party’s website  Jan. 26. “We can bury
the old stereotypes.”  Ten-year bond spreads with Italy and  France  have declined
from the euro-era highs reached in November as Merkel has won
support for her fiscal pact also championed by European Central
Bank President  Mario Draghi  -- while not standing in the way of
ECB bond buying.  Merkel’s Christian Democratic Union party is benefiting
from German economic data including the lowest jobless rate in
two decades and  business confidence  at a five-year high. A Feb.
2 poll for ARD television showed Merkel’s personal popularity at
64 percent, the highest since 2009. The same poll showed 70
percent against offering more financial guarantees for Greece.  Backing for Merkel’s CDU held at 38 percent, the highest
since before her reelection in September 2009, a separate weekly
Forsa poll showed Feb. 15. The opposition  Social Democrats 
dropped one percentage point to 26 percent.  State Vote Defeats  Shielding Germans from the turmoil has helped reverse
Merkel’s fortunes after public anger at bailouts for Greece,
Ireland and  Portugal  sent support for her bloc as low as 29
percent in the fall of 2010. Last year, her national coalition
was defeated or lost votes in all seven German state elections.  “The Germans aren’t against the EU, but they do fear for
their money,” Ulrich Deupmann, a partner at management adviser
Brunswick Group Inc. in Berlin, said in an interview. “That’s
why Merkel’s hard line on Greece is popular with voters.”  Markets are going Merkel’s way for now, easing political
pressure. Even so, she can’t bank on an end to the turmoil and
the next state election looms on March 25 in Saarland, where a
Christian Democrat-led government collapsed on Jan. 6.  With Greece’s ability to shoulder its austerity in a fifth
year of recession unresolved and Portugal’s debt sustainability
in doubt, any resurgence of the crisis would probably revive
calls for joint euro-area bonds and a bigger firewall, putting
Merkel on the defensive.  Oscar Winner  “It’s a risky strategy,” Enderlein said. “Now that the
crisis is calming down she can say more Europe is needed, as
long as this Europe picks up the German ‘stability culture.’ If
this works, it will be extremely successful.”  While Merkel attempts to follow Thatcher and win a third
term on the back her debt-crisis handling, Merkel the Movie may
have to wait. Oscar-winning actress  Meryl Streep , in Berlin on
Feb. 14 to promote her role as Thatcher in “The  Iron Lady ” at
the Berlinale festival, said she’s not tempted to play Merkel.  All the same, “seen from a distance, she’s an extremely
strong woman,” Streep told Die Welt newspaper in an interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Leon Mangasarian in Berlin at 
 lmangasarian@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  