-- Tesco Seeking Up to $598 Million for Thai Property Fund
-- B y   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n   a n d   J o y c e   K o h
-- 2012-02-20T09:43:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/tesco-thai-unit-plans-to-raise-18-billion-baht-for-property-fund.html
Tesco Plc’s (TSCO)  Thai unit plans to raise
as much as 18.4 billion baht ($598 million) from the sale of a
fund that will buy shopping malls owned by the retailer, in what
may be Thailand’s biggest initial public offering since 2006.  Ek-Chai Distribution System Co., controlled by the U.K.’s
 largest retailer , will offer 1.77 billion shares in the Tesco
Lotus Retail Growth Freehold and Leasehold Property Fund at
between 9.65 baht and 10.4 baht apiece, according to a
presentation distributed by Ek-Chai today.  The fund will use the proceeds to buy 17 malls anchored by
Tesco Lotus stores from the retailer. It will earn revenue by
leasing the stores back to Tesco and expects to pay a total
distribution of 6.5 percent to 7 percent each year, according to
the statement. Cheshunt, England-based Tesco has been selling
and leasing back its outlets since 2004.  “This property fund will offer investors a way to
capitalize on the growth of Thai economy and retail sector,”
said Christopher Bush, chief executive officer of Ek-Chai at a
press conference in Bangkok. “We have a very strong pipeline of
good assets that we can inject into the fund in the future.”  Tesco generated $2.5 billion in sales from Thailand in the
six months through August, making the country its third-largest
revenue source after the U.K. and  South Korea , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The company operates more than 900
stores, of which 133 are hypermarkets, and employs about 38,000
staff in the country, Ek-Chai said.  Consumer Spending  Tesco holds 86 percent of the  voting rights  in Ek-Chai,
according to its annual report. Six of the 17 properties to be
purchased by the fund are in Bangkok, three in tourist
destinations that the retailer didn’t name, and eight in
“burgeoning cities with growing disposable income,” according
to the statement.  “The outlook for the retail sector is pretty good this
year as the situation has returned to normal after last year’s
flood crisis.” said Preeyanun Tripetchchuporn, an analyst at
Phillip Securities Pcl in Bangkok. “People will start spending
again, boosted by promotions by many shopping centers.”  If Tesco raises the maximum amount sought, the IPO will be
 Thailand ’s biggest since Rayong Refinery Pcl raised 25.2 billion
baht in May 2006. Tesco expects to inject an additional two
assets into the property fund before the end of fiscal
2012/2013, and plans to add at least one to two assets to the
fund annually, according to the statement.  Phatra Securities Pcl will manage the sale in Thailand, and
Bank of America Merrill Lynch, Nomura Holdings Inc. and Royal
Bank of Scotland Plc will help sell shares to overseas
investors, Ek-Chai said.  Krung Thai Asset Management Pcl, a unit of Krung Thai Bank
Pcl, will manage the property fund. Ek-Chai will set the price
of the units on March 5, it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net ;
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tony Jordan at 
 tjordan3@bloomberg.net  