-- EU Could Gain Power to Order Bank Stress Tests Under Draft Law
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2012-02-20T18:21:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/eu-could-gain-power-to-order-bank-stress-tests-under-draft-law.html
European Union regulators in
Brussels would gain additional powers to seek banking data and
order financial-system stress tests under draft legislation to
tighten control over budgets in the 17-nation euro region.  The measure is part of a two-pronged budget oversight
proposal that the finance ministers of all 27 EU nations are
slated to discuss tomorrow at a meeting in Brussels.  Denmark ,
which holds the EU’s rotating presidency, aims to reach a
preliminary agreement as a basis for negotiations with the
European Parliament.  The European Commission, the EU’s regulatory arm, could
request countries to offer detailed banking data on a regular
basis, accompanied by an assessment of potential vulnerabilities
by national supervisors, according to a copy of the draft
legislation obtained by Bloomberg News. The EU also could order
stress tests, which analyze how a bank would react to various
financial shocks, and it would monitor assessments by other
regulators.  The draft places more oversight powers with the commission
than the commission’s original proposal, which specified a more
prominent role for the European Banking Authority. The document
says bank supervisors should “assess the resilience of the
financial sector to various macroeconomic and financial shocks,
as specified by the commission and the  European Central Bank ”
and other relevant authorities.  The commission in November proposed adding the right to
screen national budgets earlier and more closely monitor nations
such as  Italy  where rising borrowing costs threaten financial
stability. The EU also asked for tighter fiscal surveillance of
nations such as Greece, Ireland and  Portugal  after they exit
rescue programs.  `Serious Difficulties'  If adopted, the new measures would apply to countries whose
financial stability faces “serious difficulties.” They also
would require countries to submit to more oversight of their
budget planning as part of efforts to correct “excessive
deficit” conditions.  Last year, European governments gave final approval to a
package of six laws that make commission-backed sanctions more
automatic against euro-area nations that breach deficit and debt
limits. In a report last week, the EU said 12 nations need in-
depth reviews of their macroeconomic imbalances.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  