-- EU Must Boost Aid Fund, End ‘Too Many Cooks,’ Ex-IMF Aide Says
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2012-02-20T12:08:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/eu-must-boost-aid-fund-end-too-many-cooks-ex-imf-aide-says.html
Europe  needs to bulk up its planned
permanent euro rescue fund, take politics out of its decision-
making and use it as a building block in a global financial
firewall, a former International Monetary Fund official said.  Euro leaders should raise the 500 billion-euro ($660
billion) limit on lending once the permanent fund, the European
Stability Mechanism, goes into operation in July, said
 Alessandro Leipold , a former acting director of the IMF’s
European department who is now chief economist of the Brussels-
based  Lisbon Council , an independent research group.  To avoid the “too many cooks” syndrome that has plagued
Europe’s crisis response, more of the fund’s decision-making
must be delegated to its day-to-day managers with the overall
lead coming from the IMF, Leipold said.  “The costs of Europe’s learning-by-doing have been evident
in many areas of the present crisis,” Leipold wrote in a Lisbon
Council policy brief. “The ESM’s governance structure appears
doomed to continue to yield slow decision-making, poor
communications, and a dominance of national preoccupations.”  European leaders will decide in March whether to boost the
lending limit once the permanent fund starts running in parallel
with the existing temporary fund, the  European Financial
Stability Facility .  EFSF Loans  At the very least, Leipold said, the EFSF’s outstanding
loans shouldn’t be counted against the limit and governments
should expedite the setup of the new fund by paying in two
annual installments in the first year.  The ESM’s ground rules also set too high a bar for
countries to qualify for precautionary lending and make it
difficult to put together a standby  credit line  in an emergency,
Leipold said.  “Some key crisis-prevention or management tools do not
appear to be readily available in the ESM’s arsenal -- or, in
any event, their deployment risks being subject to lengthy
negotiations,” he wrote.  Because Europe’s ability to provide its own crisis
insurance is undercut by the risk of domino effects within the
tightly integrated monetary union, the ESM should be
complemented by a global firewall, Leipold said.  “A European stability mechanism can be helpful and succeed
only as part of a broader system of multilateral co-insurance,”
Leipold wrote. He urged the revival of talks over a global
restructuring mechanism that was considered in the 1990s.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  