-- EU Ministers Mull Climate Aid From Airlines, Ships, Draft Shows
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-02-20T11:34:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/eu-ministers-mull-climate-aid-from-airlines-ships-draft-shows.html
European Union finance ministers
will ask the bloc’s regulator to analyze how putting a price on
carbon from aviation and shipping could help raise funds to
fight  climate change , according to a draft EU document.  Finance ministers from the 27-nation EU are scheduled to
meet in Brussels tomorrow, after a gathering of euro-area
ministers scheduled to start later today. One of the issues on
the agenda is financing the battle against global warming after
a United Nations conference in Durban,  South Africa , last year
approved an instrument governing a fund to channel climate aid.  Ministers will say that putting a price on emissions from
global airlines and shipping would generate a signal to cut more
 greenhouse gases  by those industries and has the potential to
generate “large financing flows,” according to draft
conclusions from the meeting obtained by Bloomberg News.  EU governments will also invite the European Commission,
the bloc’s regulatory arm, “to prepare a reflection paper by
June on carbon pricing of global aviation and maritime
transportation” taking into account developments at the
 International Maritime Organization  and  International Civil
Aviation Organization , the draft document showed.  The UN agencies have been unable to agree on measures to
curb emissions from ships for more than a decade. The European
Union, which runs the world’s biggest carbon trading system,
expanded its carbon curbs to include aviation at the start of
this year and has said it may present its own proposal to limit
shipping pollution if IMO doesn’t find a solution.  ‘Substantial, New, Reliable’  “We need to see  Europe  behind a global deal that raises
cash for climate action in poor countries from international
aviation and shipping,” said Lies Craeynest, an EU climate
change expert at development charity Oxfam. “People in poor
countries desperately need substantial, new and reliable flows
of money to help them adapt to the damaging impacts of a
changing climate and to develop in a low carbon way.”  Ministers will also commit to continue work with other
countries and institutions to determine ways to raise $100
billion a year in aid that rich nations have promised by 2020 to
help developing countries fight climate change, according to the
draft document.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alessandro Vitelli at   avitelli1@bloomberg.net  