-- EU Nations Split on Climate Goals Before March Ministers Meeting
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-02-20T16:25:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/eu-nations-split-on-climate-goals-before-march-ministers-meeting.html
European Union governments remain
split on whether to support a pathway to long-term climate goals
drafted by the bloc’s regulator that some investors say could
bolster carbon prices, according to an EU document.  Environment ministers from the 27-nation EU will discuss
the so-called 2050 low-carbon road map when they meet on March 9
in Brussels. The policy paper by the European Commission, the
bloc’s regulatory arm, showed the most cost-effective way to
achieve the European political pledge of cutting  greenhouse
gases  by at least 80 percent in 2050 would be to lower
discharges by 40 percent in 2030 and 60 percent in 2040.  Following three meetings on a statement to be adopted after
the March gathering, Denmark, which holds the EU rotating
presidency in the first half of this year, proposed governments
“welcome” the commission’s roadmap and “recognize” its
findings regarding climate milestones for 2030, 2040 and 2050,
according to draft conclusions obtained by Bloomberg News.  “While most delegations can support the presidency text,
five delegations want to include a 25 percent milestone for the
year 2020 in the text and three delegations cannot accept the
mentioning of any numbers in relation to the milestones,”
according to a note accompanying the draft conclusions.  The draft statement will be discussed by senior diplomats
from member states later this week. Some delegations signaled
their ministers would wish to raise the matter of the milestones
at the March 9 gathering.  25 Percent  The 27-nation bloc, which wants to lead the global fight
against  climate change , is on track to meet its headline goal of
cutting greenhouse gases by 20 percent in 2020. It may exceed
the target and reduce pollution by 25 percent should member
states deliver on their energy-efficiency pledges, according to
the roadmap.  Ministers could also invite the commission “to present
timely and cost-effective policy proposals for delivering the
reductions in the ‘Low-Carbon Economy Roadmap to 2050’ for the
period to 2030; including an assessment of the impacts at the EU
and the member states’ level,” according to the draft
conclusions.  Support for a policy paper sketching out the most cost-
efficient way to long-term  climate  goals could help the EU
bolster the price of allowances in its emissions trading system,
the world’s largest, Martin Lidegaard,  Denmark ’s climate
minister, said last month.  ‘Ambitious’ Package  Dutch energy company Eneco Holding NV, Denmark’s Dong
Energy A/S and U.K.’s second-largest electricity producer SSE
Plc in November urged EU regulators to propose an “ambitious”
climate and energy package for 2030, saying the power industry
requires long-term predictability to make the necessary
investment in technological innovations.  The prices of carbon allowances in the EU emissions trading
system, the world’s largest, dropped to a four-year low of 6.38
euros ($8.46) a metric ton in January before rising to as high
as 9.47 euros today on bets policy makers will act to curb
oversupply of permits. The EU ETS is the cornerstone of the
region’s climate policy and leads to a cap on utilities and
factories in 2020 that will be 21 percent below 2005 levels. It
expanded this year into aviation.  In the draft document Denmark proposed EU ministers note
that “robust ETS allowances prices” are needed to spur
investment and invite the commission to “further consider
practical modalities that may be needed” to ensure the cap-and-
trade system continues to reward  energy efficiency  and low-
carbon projects.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  