-- EU Says It Has Enough Oil Stocks as Nations Cut Iran Imports
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-02-20T10:22:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/eu-says-it-has-enough-oil-stocks-as-nations-cut-iran-imports-1-.html
The European Union said the bloc’s
nations are reducing purchases of oil from  Iran  and have enough
reserves to face potential supply disruptions even if the
Persian Gulf country halts crude sales before an EU embargo
enters into force on July 1.  Some of the EU’s 27 nations have already stopped purchasing
oil from Iran and others are buying less, according to Marlene Holzner, energy spokeswoman for the European Commission, the EU
executive. Her comments come after the Iranian Oil Ministry’s
news website reported the country halted oil sales to French and
British buyers to pre-empt the EU ban.  “The U.K., Austria and  Portugal  had stopped already before
that to import from Iran,” Holzner said by e-mail today in
response to questions from Bloomberg. “For  France , we have no
official confirmation, but the French company Total said it
stopped imports.”  The U.K., Austria and Portugal did not import any oil from
Iran in the period from January to September 2011, according to
EU data.  Belgium , the Czech Republic and  Netherlands , which
bought a total of 2.38 million tons of Iranian crude in that
period, have now stopped purchases and  Italy ,  Spain  and Greece
are currently reducing imports, Holzner said.  The EU decided on Jan. 23 to ban imports of Iranian oil as
of the beginning of July because of concerns that Iran is
developing nuclear weapons. The five-month phase-in period,
during which existing contracts are allowed to continue, is
meant to give member states such as  Greece  that are relatively
dependent on Iranian crude time to find alternative supplies.  Long-Term Contracts  Iran threatened to halt oil shipments to Italy, Spain,
Portugal, Greece, France and the Netherlands when it summoned
their ambassadors to the Foreign Ministry on Feb. 15 to protest
the EU’s punitive measures, state media reported. Iran would end
sales of crude to the six countries unless they agreed to long-
term contracts and payment guarantees, state-run Press TV
reported that day, without citing anyone.  Iran “will give its crude oil to new customers instead of
French and U.K. companies,” the Oil Ministry’s news website
 Shana  reported, citing Alireza Nikzad Rahbar, a ministry
spokesman. France got 4 percent of its oil imports from Iran in
the first half of last year, while the U.K. bought 1 percent,
according to the  U.S. Energy Information Administration .  European nations together bought a total of 22.4 million
tons of oil from Iran in the first nine months of last year,
accounting for 5.8 percent of the bloc’s external crude imports,
according to the EU data. Greece ranked first, having purchased
4.14 million tons from Iran, or 34 percent of its oil imports.  Emergency Stocks  Current EU emergency stocks are at 136 million tons,
equivalent to 120 days of consumption, or 4.5 years of the
region’s imports from Iran, Holzner said, adding that so far no
member state has asked for a release of reserves. EU  rules 
require countries to hold emergency fuel stocks of at least 90
days of the average daily domestic consumption in the previous
calendar year.  “The continuity of supplies of crude oil and petroleum
products to European consumers should therefore not be
immediately affected, even in case of an abrupt halt of all
imports from Iran,” Holzner said. “The commission continues to
monitor the situation and stands ready to respond if needed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  