-- Euro Area Leaders Consider Greek Exit at Their Own Peril: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-02-20T00:01:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/euro-area-leaders-consider-greek-exit-at-their-own-peril-view.html
Leaders of the euro area’s wealthier
nations are increasingly raising a provocative question: Might
the common currency now be strong enough to end the bailout
agony and let  Greece  go?  The short answer is no. In fact, the euro area is probably
more vulnerable to a Greek disaster than ever.  Until recently, European officials dismissed the idea of
Greece leaving the euro as unthinkable. They seemed to recognize
that such a move would amount to mutually assured destruction.
Aside from the horrendous legal complications, the exit of one
country would raise concerns that further departures would tear
apart the euro -- a fear that would become self-fulfilling as
market turmoil overwhelmed governments’ finances.  Now, officials in  Germany  and other northern European
nations are saying a disorderly Greek default and return to the
 drachma  aren’t so unthinkable after all. Last week, German
Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said the euro area was now
better equipped to handle the potential repercussions than
before. Luxembourg Finance Minister Luc Frieden also chimed in.
Of course, this could all be a bluff, designed to pressure Greek
leaders into accepting harsher austerity measures.  Face Value  Maybe, but such ruminations need to be taken at face value.
With Greece’s outlook darkening and everyone suffering from
bailout fatigue and political pressures back home, the idea
might gain momentum even after the ink on the latest inadequate
deal has dried. Finance ministers from all 17 euro-area
countries are scheduled to meet today in Brussels to finalize a
Greek aid package, after Greece yesterday identified 325 million
euros ($427 million) in spending cuts to secure a bailout.  On the surface,  Europe  is looking more resilient than it
did only a few months ago.  Business confidence  in Germany is on
the rise. The  European Central Bank  has calmed markets by
providing nearly 500 billion euros in emergency three-year loans
to the region’s banks. Yields on Italian and Spanish bonds have
fallen, creating the impression that investors are less
concerned about troubles in Greece spreading to those countries.  The improvement, though, is largely cosmetic. The ECB has
brought down bond yields by offering banks a no-brainer trade:
Buy European  government bonds  yielding more than 5 percent with
money borrowed from the central bank at a rate of 1 percent. The
resulting demand from banks has buoyed bond prices and helped
Spain and Italy issue more new debt. It also leaves financial
institutions -- and the ECB itself -- more exposed to losses in
the event of sovereign defaults or renewed market turmoil.  The banks’ exposure wouldn’t necessarily be a problem if
overall confidence in financially strapped countries was
genuinely recovering. Sadly, that’s not the case. In  Italy ,
capital flight to other European countries is accelerating. At
the end of December, the net claims of euro-area central banks
on the  Bank of Italy  stood at nearly 200 billion euros, up from
89 billion euros in October and 19 billion in July. Such
liabilities arise when Italians move their money out of the
country, or when foreign investors stop putting theirs in.  Either way, the trend reflects just how fragile the euro
area has become. If investors and regular account holders
already see a difference between a euro deposited in Italy and a
euro deposited in Germany, there’s a real danger that Greece’s
withdrawal from the common currency would trigger bank runs and
freeze government-debt markets. Should an economy as large as
Italy,  Spain  or even  France  come under attack, the question
wouldn’t be whether German taxpayers want to pay for a bailout,
as is the case for Greece, but whether they are able to.  Germany itself is increasingly exposed to a Greek exit. As a
result of capital inflows -- the mirror image of the movements
out of Italy and other struggling countries -- euro area central
banks now owe the German central bank nearly 500 billion euros.
It’s hard to imagine how Germany would collect those debts from
any country that left the common currency. More likely, as
French economist Eric Dor of the IESEG School of Management
notes in a recent  paper , its own taxpayers would be left with
the bill.  Avoiding such a dire outcome won’t be easy. European leaders
will have to recognize some difficult truths: Greece and
 Portugal  need a lot more debt relief to get their finances and
economies on track, banks need to raise hundreds of billions of
euros in capital to restore confidence, and only an overwhelming
guarantee fund -- more than 3 trillion euros, by our estimate --
will protect solvent governments from speculative attack.  Keeping the euro together will be costly. It will also be a
lot cheaper than the alternative.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 