-- Yen Falls in Longest Streak in Two Months; Euro Gains on Greece Bailout
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-02-21T22:22:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/euro-trades-near-three-month-high-versus-yen-on-greece-bailout-optimism.html
The yen fell for a fourth day versus
the dollar, the longest losing streak in more than two months,
as investors sold the Japanese currency to buy higher-yielding
assets.  The euro rose against the majority of its most-traded
counterparts as Greece won a second international bailout and
its government submitted debt-swap and austerity measures to the
country’s parliament for approval. Gains in the dollar were
limited as U.S. stocks rallied to the highest levels since 2008
before retreating. The yen has declined against all its major
peers since  Japan ’s central bank increased its asset-purchase
fund to 30 trillion yen last week.  “As the market conditions calm down a little and we have
less volatility, there is more interest in selling the yen
against non-major currencies,” said  Nick Bennenbroek , head of
currency strategy at  Wells Fargo & Co . in New York. “What we’ve
seen with dollar-yen has a lot to do with  Bank of Japan 
easing.”  The yen fell 0.1 percent to 79.74 at 5 p.m. in New York,
after touching 79.89 yesterday, the weakest since Aug. 4. The
euro declined less than 0.1 percent to $1.3234 after reaching
$1.3293, the highest level since Feb. 9.  Europe ’s currency rose
0.1 percent 105.54 yen after earlier rising to 106.01 yen, the
most since Nov. 14.  The  implied volatility  of three-month options for Group of
Seven currencies fell as low as 9.97 percent, the least since
Feb. 13, according to the JPMorgan G7  Volatility Index . A
decrease makes investments in currencies with higher benchmark
lending rates more attractive as the risk in such trades is that
market moves will erase profits.  ‘Risk Being Taken’  The  S&P 500  rose less than 0.1 percent after climbing as
much as 0.5 percent to 1,367.76, the strongest since June 2008.
The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  rose above 13,000 for the first
time since May 2008.  Benchmark interest rates are 10.5 percent in Brazil and
1.75 percent in Sweden and Norway compared to near zero percent
in Japan.  “You’re seeing risk being taken in the equity markets and
some of the money that was parked in yen moving out and removing
support for the local currency,” said  Samarjit Shankar , a
managing director for the foreign-exchange group in  Boston  at
Bank of  New York  Mellon. “There is an isolation of euro-
denominated risk in global portfolios, especially on the bond
and currency side, but that has not deterred investors from
making tactical plays elsewhere.”  Krona Rallies  Sweden’s krona rose against most of its major counterparts
as the central bank borrowed 10 billion kronor to restore
reserves. The krona fell 0.1 percent to 6.6570 per dollar and
was little changed versus the euro at 8.8099.  The Australian dollar weakened as policy makers “judged
that if demand conditions were to weaken materially, the
inflation outlook would provide scope for a further easing in
monetary policy.” The central bank unexpectedly held rates at
4.25 percent this month after two quarter-percentage-point
reductions late last year  Australia’s currency fell 0.9 percent to $1.0663. The
Aussie dropped 0.8 percent to A$1.2411 per euro and declined 0.7
percent to 85.02 yen.  Euro-area finance ministers awarded 130 billion euros ($173
billion) in aid to  Greece  and reached an accord for greater debt
relief from investor representatives in an exchange offer to
tide the nation past a bond redemption next month.  Greek Debt Swap  Greece’s government submitted two separate laws on a
voluntary debt swap known as private-sector involvement, or PSI,
and collective action clauses and on fiscal measures in return
for international financing to the country’s parliament for
approval. The laws were posted on the Hellenic Parliament’s
website.  Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  said the debt-swap
process should be complete by March 10. The goal is for the
nation to escape the full 14.5 billion-euro cost of a March 20
bond redemption.  “The euro reaction, we have seen for the most part, is
extremely lackluster,” said  Kathy Lien , director of currency
research at online currency trader GFT Forex in New York.
“Investors want to get the all-clear from the PSI and they want
to see how many private bondholders actually participate in the
deal. If we have less participation and the  ratings agencies 
deem it a  credit event , we’re back on the slippery slope.”  The so-called three-month 25-delta risk reversal rate was
at minus 2.6275 percent today, rising from minus 2.98 percent on
Feb. 16. A negative rate signals greater demand for euro puts
relative to calls. Calls grant the right to purchase a currency,
while puts allow for sales.  The euro depreciated 4.5 percent in the past three months,
the most after the yen’s 6 percent decline, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track 10
developed-market currencies. The dollar slipped 2.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  