-- Mexican Peso Rises on Optimism European Ministers to Reach Greece Accord
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2012-02-20T23:47:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/mexican-peso-rises-on-optimism-ministers-to-reach-greece-accord.html
Mexico ’s peso rose, extending the
biggest rally among major currencies this year, as investors
stepped up purchases of higher-yielding assets on speculation
that European leaders will agree on a bailout for  Greece .  The peso strengthened 0.5 percent to 12.6934 per  U.S.
dollar  at the close in Mexico City, from 12.7593 on Feb. 17. It
has gained 9.8 percent this year, the most among 16 major
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  European finance ministers meet in Brussels today in an
attempt to avoid a Greek sovereign default. The ministers are
weighing the terms of new loans to Greece and a possible
contribution by central banks at a meeting today in Brussels.
They also aim to start a bond exchange with private investors
meant to stave off a Greek bankruptcy next month.  Speculation that leaders “were about to reach an agreement
made the markets take on a positive trend,” said  Ramon Cordova ,
a currency trader at Banco Base SA in Monterrey, Mexico. Recent
“good data” signaling a U.S. economic recovery also is fueling
the peso’s rally, he said.  Reports last week showed the index of U.S. leading
indicators rose in January and the cost of living climbed less
than forecast, pointing to sustained economic growth with
limited price pressures. Markets in the U.S., the destination
for 80 percent of Mexican exports, are closed today for the
Presidents’ Day holiday.  The yield on peso-denominated debt due in 2024 declined
three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 6.47 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The price of the
securities rose 0.27 centavo to 130.66 centavos per peso.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  