-- Forint Gains for Fourth Day to Five-Month High as Bonds Climb
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2012-02-20T16:06:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/forint-gains-for-fourth-day-heads-for-strongest-in-five-months.html
The forint appreciated for a fourth
day to the strongest close since September and bonds rallied as
global appetite for riskier assets increased and  Hungary  moved
closer to obtaining international aid.  The currency of Hungary, the European Union’s most indebted
eastern member, advanced 1 percent to 287.15 per euro as of 4:38
p.m. in Budapest, the strongest on a closing basis since Sept.
27. Gains in the government’s benchmark 10-year bonds cut yields
six basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 8.478 percent.  Hungary accepted the majority of the European Commission’s
demands on three infringement procedures against the country
which have blocked talks for European Union and International
Monetary Fund assistance, Foreign Minister Janos Martonyi said
in a HirTV interview late yesterday. The MSCI Emerging Market
Index jumped as much as 0.6 percent after  China  cut banks’
reserve requirements and ahead of a meeting of euro-area finance
ministers to discuss a Greek bailout.  “The forint may sustain its strong performance because of
the potential positive turn in sentiment on the Greek
solution,” Levente Blaho and Adam Keszeg, Budapest-based
analysts at Raiffeisen Bank International AG, wrote in a
research report today.  The forint has rallied more than 11 percent, the biggest
gains worldwide, since Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  said Jan. 5
he was ready to discuss steps needed to obtain a “quick”
bailout after a dispute with the EU and IMF on areas including
monetary-policy independence.  ‘Constructive Recommendations’  Hungary made “constructive recommendations” on issues,
including the early retirement of judges, Martonyi said in
yesterday’s interview. The government suggested allowing judges
to continue working past the new general retirement age of 62
years on a case by case basis, Martonyi said, following a
dispute with the EU on whether an age limit was discriminatory.  The cost of insuring against default on Hungary’s debt with
credit-default swaps was little changed at 552 basis points
according to data provider CMA.  Hungary may obtain IMF aid in June or later as the
government needs to bridge “deep differences” with the
organization on fiscal policy,  Daniel Hewitt  and Piotr Chwiejczak, London-based economists at  Barclays Capital , wrote
in a report today after visiting Budapest.  “With a bumpy road ahead in the IMF negotiations and
credit being the asset class likely to be hit first and hardest
if Hungary runs into serious external financing problems without
IMF disbursements, we maintain our ‘underweight’ stance on
Hungary credit at this stage,” the economists wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  