-- Frankfurt Airport Cuts 20% of Flights as Ground Controllers Extend Strike
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b   a n d   K o n s t a n t i n   R i f f l e r
-- 2012-02-21T11:59:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/frankfurt-aims-to-operate-70-of-flights-on-day-four-of-strikes.html
Frankfurt airport  ground controllers
extended a strike until 11 p.m. on Feb. 24, prolonging a dispute
that may force the cancellation today of as many as 20 percent
of flights at  Europe ’s third-busiest hub.  So far, 187 of the 1,200 flights planned for today have
been scrapped, airport owner  Fraport AG (FRA)  said in a statement. The
Gewerkschaft der Flugsicherung union said late yesterday that
the 200 strikers will stay away from their jobs an extra three
days instead of returning to work at 5 a.m. tomorrow.  Walkouts started on Feb. 16 in the GdF’s dispute over wages
and terms for contracting out taxiway-traffic and plane-parking
operations. Fraport halted 240 takeoffs and landings in
Frankfurt yesterday, or 20 percent of the 1,250 scheduled,
mostly on short-haul routes.  The GdF has said stoppages will continue until Fraport
makes a better offer. The airport, the main hub for  Deutsche
Lufthansa AG (LHA) , reiterated today that it’s willing to talk if the
union makes compromises.  “It is conceivable that if no offer is received, the air
traffic controllers at the airport could strike in solidarity,”
Dirk Vogelsang, the GdF’s chief negotiator, said by telephone
today. “We will have to see what happens when the current
strike ends on Friday.”  Fraport is looking at hiring emergency employees from other
airports, and qualified ground-control workers have been drafted
in from administrative posts, Juergen Harrer, a spokesman at the
Frankfurt-based company, said yesterday.  The GdF, which has struck deals with airports in Munich and
Berlin, has said it accepted a recommendation from mediator Ole von Beust for a two-step increase in monthly wages of between
200 euros ($265) and 1,600 euros. It also wants any outsourced
jobs to move to a single company on a single contract. Fraport
reiterated today that the union’s demands for wages and benefit
increases are too costly.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Webb in  Frankfurt  at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net ;
Konstantin Riffler in Frankfurt at 
 kriffler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  