-- French Business Sentiment Halts Seven-Month Drop on Rebound Signs: Economy
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n   a n d   F e r g a l   O ’ B r i e n
-- 2012-02-20T10:55:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/french-business-sentiment-stops-decline-on-hints-of-rebound.html
French  business confidence  arrested
a seven-month decline in February, the latest sign that  Europe ’s
second-largest economy may be starting to recover after
unexpectedly expanding in the fourth quarter.  Sentiment among factory executives held at 92 after
January’s reading was revised from an initially reported 91,
Paris-based statistics office Insee said today. The reading
matched the median forecast of 18 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. A gauge of the outlook among businesses rose to
a six-month high.  Business confidence in Germany, Europe’s largest economy,
probably also rose in February, economists said before a report
on Feb. 23. Finance ministers meet in Brussels today to conclude
talks on a second Greek bailout as they seek to end a debt
crisis that began more than two years ago and has undermined
sentiment and growth across the region.  The indicator “suggests further stabilization in the
business climate with upside surprises possible,” said Fabrice Montagne, an economist at  Barclays Capital  in London. “Looking
ahead, however, we are still worried about a below long-term
average reading in the first quarter and see room for the
economy to contract slightly.”  The February confidence reading of 92 is the lowest in
almost two years. Still, the order books gauge rose to minus 26
from minus 28 and the production outlook increased to minus 27
from minus 36.  Cautious Start  After predicting in December that the French economy would
shrink in the fourth quarter of 2011 and the first quarter of
2012, Insee said last week that the economy grew 0.2 percent in
the three months through December, helped by external trade and
business investment.  “The word for the start of the year is ‘caution,’” Air
Liquide SA Chief Executive Officer Benoit Potier said on Feb.
17. In November and December, the big companies “closed their
taps. Now they’re starting to come back” and we’re seeing a
“return to normality.”  The Ifo institute’s business climate index for  Germany 
climbed to 108.8 from 108.3 in January, according to the median
of 37 forecasts in a Bloomberg survey. The  European Central Bank 
is set to allot a second tranche of three-year loans this month
after a previous measure in December helped ease liquidity
strains in the financial system.  Italy’s industrial orders rose 5.5 percent in December from
November, the country’s statistics institute said today. From a
year earlier, orders were down 4.3 percent.  Japan Deficit  In  Asia  today, Japan posted a record trade deficit in
January as the yen’s strength and weaker global demand eroded
manufacturers’ profits and slowed the nation’s recovery from
last year’s earthquake and tsunami. The gap widened to 1.48
trillion yen ($19 billion) as  shipments dropped  9.3 percent from
a year earlier and energy imports surged, the Ministry of
Finance reported in  Tokyo .  Shipments to  China ,  Japan ’s largest market, fell 20 percent
from a year earlier, the biggest decline since Aug. 2009.
Exports to the European Union slid 7.7 percent and shipments to
the U.S. advanced 0.6 percent.  Thailand Shrinks  Elsewhere in Asia,  Thailand ’s economy shrank 9 percent in
the fourth quarter compared with the year earlier on the worst
floods in almost 70 years. In  New Zealand ,  producer input prices 
gained 0.5 percent in the same period from the three months
through September, the smallest increase since the fourth
quarter of 2009,  Statistics New Zealand  said in Wellington.  Asian stocks advanced after China cut banks’ reserve
requirements to fuel lending and buoy economic growth, boosting
demand for riskier assets. The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  rose 0.8
percent as of 10:26 a.m. in London. The Stoxx 600 Europe Index
gained 0.7 percent. U.S. markets are closed for the Presidents’
Day holiday.  In Europe, finance ministers will try to settle remaining
disputes at a meeting today as they close in on a 130 billion-
euro ($172 billion) bailout for  Greece , which the country needs
to make a bond payment on March 20.  The euro rose against the dollar for a third day on
speculation of an accord. Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos said his country has delivered on everything needed to
be able to get approval for the package. The euro gained 0.6
percent to $1.3218.  “We expect today to close a long period of uncertainty
that has not been to the benefit of either the  Greek economy  or
the euro area as a whole,” Venizelos said.  French Finance Minister  Francois Baroin  said that euro-area
countries should be able to reach a deal.  “We have all the elements for an agreement,” Baroin said
today on Europe 1 radio. “There are many structural reforms
under way. We can’t wait because of the payment that is due in
March.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net ;
Fergal O’Brien in  London  at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  