-- U.K. Stocks Climb to Seven-Month High; Misys Shares Rally
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-02-20T17:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/ftse-100-stocks-post-advance-after-china-cuts-banks-reserve-requirements.html
U.K. stocks  rose to a seven-month
high as China cut banks’ reserve requirements to spur growth and
euro-area finance ministers met to discuss a Greek bailout.  Rio Tinto  Group and  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  advanced more than 2
percent as China’s decision boosted demand for base metals.  CSR
Plc (CSR) , the U.K. maker of chips used in Nokia Oyj mobile phones,
jumped 21 percent after reporting a narrower-than-estimated
loss.  Misys Plc (MSY)  soared 6.6 percent after attracting a bid from
Vista Equity Partners.  The benchmark FTSE 100 Index gained 40.18, or 0.7 percent,
to 5,945.25 at the close in  London , the highest level since July
8. The gauge has advanced 20 percent from its low in October as
the  European Central Bank  increased lending to banks and U.S.
economic reports exceeded estimates. The FTSE All-Share Index
also rose 0.7 percent today and Ireland’s ISEQ Index advanced
0.9 percent.  “The Chinese central bank cutting reserve requirements for
 China ’s banks has fueled speculation that this will help
industrial production, boosting U.K. commodity shares,” said
David Jones, the chief market strategist at IG Index in London.
“Although we can all be allowed a degree of skepticism
regarding an imminent solution to the Greek bailout, investors
still seem happy to look for excuses to buy, and stock markets
still seem to have plenty of momentum, even considering how far
they have come in recent months.”  European Crisis  The FTSE 100 tumbled 19 percent from last year’s highest
level in February through October, when it reached 4,944.44, the
lowest level since July 2010, as the debt crisis engulfed the
larger euro zone economies of Italy and Spain.  China (CHRRDEP)  cut the amount of cash that banks must set aside as
reserves for the second time in three months to spur lending.
 Reserve requirements  will fall by 50 basis points effective Feb.
24, the People’s Bank of China said.  Euro-area finance ministers began meeting in Brussels today
to prevent the region’s first sovereign default through a
bailout for Greece. They joined Greek Prime Minister Lucas Papademos who arrived on the eve of the gathering. The talks are
seeking to reconcile demands made on Greek leaders, a debt swap
among private creditors, the role of the European Central Bank
and concerns the measures won’t be enough to contain the crisis.  Rio Tinto, the world’s third-largest mining company,
advanced 2.3 percent to 3,706 pence.  BHP Billiton  rose 2.7
percent to 2,077.5 pence. Copper, lead, nickel and tin prices
increased on the London Metal Exchange.  CSR Climbs  CSR rallied 21 percent to 275 pence, the largest gain since
2004, after also announcing a buyback of as much as $50 million.
Chief Executive Officer Joep van Beurden said he’s
“comfortable” with analysts’ earnings estimates for 2012.  Misys, the financial-software maker that agreed to merge
with Swiss competitor Temenos Group AG this month, rose 6.6
percent to 330.1 pence. Misys received a non-binding proposal
from Vista to acquire all outstanding shares in cash, Misys said
today.  Cove Energy Plc (COV)  advanced 5.2 percent to 156.75 pence. Bids
for the London-based oil and gas explorer which put itself up
for sale last month will be led by India’s state-owned Oil &
Natural Gas Corp. and GAIL India Ltd., the Sunday Times
reported, without saying where it got the information.  ONGC and GAIL have appointed Bank of America Merrill Lynch
to advise them on a joint bid, the newspaper said. State-backed
firms from Thailand,  South Korea  and China are also interested,
according to the newspaper.  Cable & Wireless Worldwide Plc (CW/)  advanced 2.5 percent to
27.82 pence. The Sunday Times reported that Vodafone Group Plc
may have to offer at least 1 billion pounds ($1.6 billion) for
the wireless services provider.  IP Group Plc (IPO)  rallied 12 percent to 113 pence. Oxford
Nanopore Technologies Ltd. is entering the gene-sequencing race
with a new portable device that will allow people to analyze DNA
on the go. IP Group owns 21.5 percent of Oxford Nanopore.  JJB Sports Plc (JJB)  jumped 15 percent to 11.5 pence as the
retailer’s comparative sales and cash gross margin improved.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  