-- Futures Fall on Doubt Over Medvedev’s Future: Russia Overnight
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2012-02-21T03:18:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/futures-fall-on-doubt-over-medvedev-s-future-russia-overnight.html
Russian  stock futures  fell after an
adviser to President  Dmitry Medvedev  said he should abandon
plans to become premier after leaving his current role, casting
doubt on the outlook for the country’s political landscape.  Futures expiring in March on Moscow’s dollar-denominated
 RTS (RTSI$)  index retreated 0.2 percent to 167,010 in U.S. trading hours
yesterday. The  RTS Volatility Index (RTSVX) , which measures expected
swings in the contracts, fell for the third day, dropping 0.8
percent to 30.65 points.  “Speculation about Medvedev not being the prime minister
is increasing uncertainty,” Ivan Tchakarov, the chief economist
for Russia and the Commonwealth of Independent States at
Renaissance Capital, said by phone from Moscow. “People had
expected that the swap between Putin and Medvedev was a done
deal.”  Medvedev in September agreed to give up the chance for a
second term to allow Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  to reclaim
the Kremlin. Putin offered Medvedev the premier’s job in return,
a move that turned the president into a diminished political
figure, said  Igor Yurgens , who heads a research group created by
Medvedev and serves as an adviser to him, in an interview in
Moscow on Feb. 17.  Medvedev wouldn’t be “very successful in the job” because
Putin’s allies in the Cabinet would “tear him apart,” Yurgens
said, abandoning his support for the president for the first
time publicly. Medvedev should make way for the man he fired
last year as finance minister,  Alexei Kudrin , who would do a
better job, Yurgens said.  Greek Bailout  Medvedev’s spokeswoman, Natalya Timakova, said she had
nothing to say about Yurgens’ switch in support to Kudrin.
“This is Yurgens’s personal opinion,” Timakova said.  United Co. Rusal, the world’s largest aluminum producer,
dropped 3.3 percent to HK$6.50 in Hong Kong trading as of 11:14
a.m. local time. The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  fell 0.2 percent
amid haggling on a Greek aid package. The stock gauge pared a
0.7 percent advance after a European Union official said Euro-
area finance ministers have reached agreement on a second
bailout for the country.  Urals crude, Russia’s chief export oil blend, rose 0.5
percent to $120.49 yesterday as Iran stopped sales of crude to
French and British buyers to pre-empt a European Union ban on
imports of its oil and as OPEC’s second-biggest producer
negotiates contracts to supply  China .  Oil Prices  Crude for March delivery rose 1.7 percent in electronic
trading today on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Futures
gained as much as $2.20 to $105.44 a barrel, the highest
intraday price since May 5.  Brent crude  for April settlement on
the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange climbed 47 cents to
$120.05 a barrel. U.S. stock markets were closed yesterday for
Presidents’ Day.  Russia ’s ruble-denominated, 30-stock advanced 0.7 percent
to 1,579.19 as European governments continued discussions about
a second rescue of Greece, calculating that the 130 billion-euro
($172 billion) cost of a fresh bailout is a price worth paying
to prevent a default that could shatter the euro area. The  RTS (RTSI$) 
gained 1.1 percent to 1,674.27.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in New York at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  