-- German Stocks Advance Before EU Decision on Greek Debt Bailout
-- B y   K o n s t a n t i n   R i f f l e r
-- 2012-02-20T13:22:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/german-stocks-advance-before-eu-decision-on-greek-debt-bailout.html
German stocks rose to a six-month
high ahead of a euro-area finance ministers meeting to try to
settle terms for a second Greek bailout, and as China cut banks’
reserve requirements.  Banks led gains, with Commerzbank AG increasing 2.9 percent
and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  adding 2.3 percent.  BASF SE (BAS)  rose 2.4
percent, following advances in European chemical makers.
ThyssenKrupp AG,  Germany ’s largest steelmaker, also climbed.  Germany’s benchmark  DAX Index (DAX)  gained 1.4 percent to
6,945.55 at 1:58 p.m. in Frankfurt, its highest level since Aug.
1. Of the 30 companies listed on the index, 28 rose and two
fell. The broader HDAX advanced 1.4 percent.  Euro-area finance ministers meet in Brussels today to
hammer out a deal to prevent the region’s first sovereign
default through a bailout for  Greece . They will join Greek Prime
Minister  Lucas Papademos . Discussions will seek to reconcile
demands made on Greek leaders, a debt swap among private
creditors, the role of the  European Central Bank  and concerns
that austerity will fail.  China cut the amount of cash that banks must set aside as
reserves for the second time in three months by 50 basis points
effective Feb. 24, according to People’s Bank of  China . The cuts
are aimed at fueling lending and sustaining economic growth as
the housing market cools and Europe’s sovereign debt crisis
weighs on exports.  ThyssenKrupp Gains  Commerzbank (CBK)  rose 2.9 percent to 2.14 euros, while Deutsche
Bank gained 2.3 percent to 34.60 euros.  ThyssenKrupp, Germany’s largest steelmaker, climbed 3.3
percent to 21.23 euros, as basic resources companies on the
Stoxx Europe 600 rose 1.8 percent.  “The Chinese central bank has lowered the minimum reserves
at banks, so that there is hope that the boom will not weaken
too strongly; that gain is more due to these things,” said
Hans-Peter Wodniok, an analyst at Fairesearch Gmbh & Co.  BASF, the world’s largest chemical manufacturer, rallied
2.4 percent to 64.51 euros, while Stoxx  Europe  600 chemical
makers advanced 1.7 percent.  Siemens AG increased 1.1 percent to 75.23 euros. The
engineering company sold a blocking stake in OAO Power Machines,
Russian billionaire Alexey Mordashov’s turbine producer, for no
more than $280 million, below the market price,  Russia ’s
Kommersant reported today, citing an unidentified person
familiar with the terms of the transaction.  Infineon Technologies AG, Europe’s second-largest
semiconductor maker, climbed 3 percent to 7.80 euros. The
company is among attractive names on the DAX, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Konstantin Riffler in Frankfurt at 
 kriffler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net . 