-- German Offshore Wind-Energy Delays Threaten Energy Overhaul
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2012-02-21T09:56:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/german-offshore-wind-energy-delays-threaten-energy-plan-overhaul.html
Germany ’s offshore wind parks, being
built to replace most of the nuclear reactors closing in the
next decade, are headed to miss construction targets because of
delays in connecting turbines to the  power grid .  EON AG (EOAN)  and  RWE AG (RWE) , the country’s biggest utilities, have
threatened to halt investment in wind projects unless obstacles
are removed, which RWE blames mainly on slow permitting and
problems with acquiring cables and transformer stations.  The difficulties undermine the government’s aim to have 10
gigawatts of sea-based turbines, or the equivalent of about nine
atomic plants, installed by the end of this decade, according to
the wind industry’s main lobby group. About 0.2 gigawatts were
in place at the end of last year.  “We won’t reach 10 gigawatts by 2020, and everyone in the
industry knows that,” Hermann Albers, the head of the BWE wind-
energy lobby, said in an interview in Berlin. Grid operators,
which are responsible for the connections, and their suppliers
have underestimated the challenges of connecting projects that
can cost upward of 1 billion euros ($1.3 billion), he said.  The sluggish start to Germany’s offshore wind expansion is
a setback for  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s plan to transition to a
nuclear-free energy mix based on 80 percent renewable sources by
2050. It signals greater reliance on other energy sources and
delays for wind-project suppliers including  Siemens AG (SIE) ,  Europe ’s
biggest engineering company, and  ABB Ltd. (ABBN)  of  Switzerland , the
largest maker of power-distribution equipment.  ‘Not in Danger’  The German government says the delays won’t affect its goal
of shutting all nuclear reactors by 2022 and raise the share of
renewables to 35 percent of the total installed capacity from
about 20 percent last year.  “The energy overhaul is not in danger,” as installations
of land-based turbines and solar panels exceed expectations and
“overcompensate” for the offshore wind delays, Juergen Maass,
a spokesman for the German Environment Ministry, said by phone.  The government’s longer-term target of 25 gigawatts of
offshore wind generators by 2030 “will be met, just the curve
to get there may look different,” he said.  The utilities say the delays may affect longer-term
commitments. Fritz Vahrenholt, chief executive officer of RWE’s
Innogy unit for renewable energy, predicted a possible
“collapse in investment activities” in German offshore wind
farms unless the issues are resolved.  Grid Delays  Grid operator TenneT TSO GmbH told RWE that hooking the
utility’s 1 billion-euro Nordsee Ost wind farm up to the grid
will take 12 months longer than expected, Vahrenholt said last
month in Essen, Germany, where RWE has its headquarters.  EON’s Amrumbank West project in the  North Sea  will be
delayed by about 15 months, said Carsten Thomsen-Bendixen, an
EON spokesman. The Dusseldorf-based utility said it can’t make
an  investment decision  on two other projects in planning in
Germany because of the problems.  The utilities are concerned about who will compensate them
for the delays, which in the case of RWE’s Nordsee Ost farm may
cause damages in the “three-digit million-euro range,”
Vahrenholt said. They also want to cut red tape in permitting
wind farms.  German Developer Windreich AG rejected the utilities’
warnings as “doom-mongering.” TenneT will connect “nearly on
time” Windreich’s Global Tech I, MEG 1 and Deutsche Bucht
projects with a combined capacity of about 1 gigawatt, Chief
Executive Officer Willi Balz said in a statement late yesterday.  ‘Exceeding Projections’  Germany’s environment and economy ministries last month set
up a group that will also include grid operators, regulators and
industry officials to discuss issues including permitting and
liability to speed up grid connection. The group will make
recommendations to Environment Minister Norbert Roettgen at the
end of next month, said Thorsten Falk of the Offshore Stiftung,
a group that promotes offshore  wind energy .  “The 10-gigawatts can be reached in principle if a broad
solution for the grid connection issue can be brought on its way
quickly,” Falk said in e-mailed remarks. “Whether this will be
a precision landing or delayed by two years doesn’t matter for
the overhaul of the electricity supply. The actual power output
is what matters, not the megawatt figures. Initial experience
shows that those are exceeding projections.”  TenneT has earmarked 5.5 billion euros for nine grid
connection projects, Ulrike Hoerchens, a spokeswoman, said by
phone. Two projects, HelWin 1 and BorWin 2, which are each able
to connect several wind farms, are delayed by eight months and
three months, respectively, she said.  As much as 55 additional wind farms may ask for approval in
TenneT’s grid in the coming months, Hoerchens said. “That shows
the kind of challenges we as a grid operator are facing,” she
said.  Siemens Setback  The start of construction of the  HelWin 1  converter
platform will be delayed by about a year to May 2013 as the
licensing and permitting process “turned out to be more complex
than planned,” Torsten Wolf, a spokesman for Siemens, the main
contractor for both projects, said by phone.  Siemens, which booked 203 million euros in charges in the
first quarter on the delays, is “pulling out all the stops” to
start construction for BorWin 2 in September, about three months
later than planned, he said.  German authorities should draft a long-term offshore grid
development plan and clarify who’s legally responsible to
compensate for grid connection delays, TenneT said in a
statement posted on its  website  yesterday. It suggested forming
a “German direct-current network operator” that would plan,
finance, build and run  power lines  to connect the wind farms and
bring their output south, where companies including Daimler AG
and BASF AG run factories.  “The current structure is not suitable to accomplish the
ambitions of the energy transition,” it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  