-- Gillard Vows to Stay Australia Leader Amid Rudd Speculation
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2012-02-20T20:30:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/gillard-says-she-will-survive-as-australia-premier-amid-rudd-speculation.html
Julia Gillard  predicted she will
survive 2012 as Australia’s leader and Foreign Minister Kevin Rudd played down speculation he is planning a challenge, after
days of wrangling that undermined the governing Labor party.  “I’m getting on with the job with the strong support of my
caucus colleagues,” Prime Minister Gillard told reporters in
Canberra today. Rudd, who is attending a Group of 20 foreign
ministers’ meeting in Los Cabos,  Mexico , told reporters that
reports of his challenging Gillard are “based on an untruth”
and denied he has sought anyone’s support for the job.  Cabinet ministers rallied behind Gillard after a lawmaker
in the governing Labor party, Darren Cheeseman, broke ranks
yesterday to call for the prime minister, the nation’s first
female leader, to quit and hand the job back to Rudd. The
disarray in Labor may boost the opposition Liberal-National
coalition which is gearing up for an election next month in the
state of Queensland that opinion polls say it will win.  Rudd, asked if he would challenge Gillard if there were a
“leadership spill” in which she opened the floor for
contenders within the party, told reporters: “That is not a
prospect because we have a prime minister and I am the foreign
minister.”  ‘Completely Distracted’  The leadership rivalry has “the entire government -- from
backbenchers to ministers -- completely distracted and is
absolute political manna from heaven for Mr. Abbott,” said
Haydon Manning, an associate professor in the Department of
Politics and Public Policy at Flinders University in Adelaide,
referring to opposition leader  Tony Abbott . “The constant
speculation just cripples the government.”  Australian equities rose in tandem with shares across the
region on signs  Europe  is nearer a deal for a second Greek
bailout. The  S&P/ASX 200 Index (AS51)  rose 1.4 percent to 4,256.1 at
the close, compared with a 0.8 percent gain for the MSCI Asia
Pacific Index as of 5:07 p.m. in  Tokyo . The so-called Aussie
dollar, the world’s fifth most-traded currency, rose 0.6 percent
to $1.0773.  “It has the potential to sneak up on investors and at some
stage people will have to reassess the risk they apportion to
investing in  Australia ,” said  Tim Schroeders , who helps manage
$1 billion in equities at Pengana Capital Ltd. in Melbourne,
referring to the political strife.  Since forming a minority government following an August
2010 election, Gillard, 50, a former union lawyer, has seen her
party’s support drop in polls after she pushed legislation on
climate change and natural-resources taxes. Gillard has
struggled to sell the initiatives, which were one condition for
gaining support from independent and Green party lawmakers.  Running Behind  The decline, with a Newspoll survey this month putting
Labor 14 percentage points behind the opposition Liberal-
National coalition, has been seized on by opponents of Gillard.
Labor lawmaker Cheeseman said yesterday the party couldn’t win
the next election, due in late 2013, with Gillard in charge. His
seat, in the same state of Victoria as Gillard’s, is the most
marginally held in Australia, according to the Australian
Electoral Commission.  Rudd, 54, said in an interview broadcast over the weekend
that he’s changed the autocratic style that helped lead to his
downfall in a late-night party coup in June 2010, and has
learned to better delegate and consult with staff.  “We have a prime minister who is leading us,” Rudd said
in an interview with  Sky News  broadcast yesterday. A challenge
is not “on,” he said, without ruling out the possibility of
one.  Rudd Leads Poll  A Feb. 2 to Feb. 4 Nielsen poll revealed 57 percent of
voters surveyed preferred Rudd as Labor leader, compared with 35
percent for Gillard. The survey of 1,400 people had a margin of
error of plus or minus 2.6 percentage points.  Rudd has “either got to put up or shut up,” Simon Crean,
a former Labor leader who is minister for regional Australia,
told Australian Broadcasting Corp. radio today. “If  Kevin Rudd 
can’t be part of the team, let him exit the team.”  A Galaxy poll conducted Feb. 15 to Feb. 16 showed Labor,
led by Queensland Premier Anna Bligh, trailing the opposition by
20 percentage points ahead of the Queensland vote on March 24.
The survey of 800 people, which gave no margin of error, shows
the Liberal-National coalition with 60 percent and Labor with 40
percent in the two-party preferred voting system.  In contrast with the fortunes of some leaders, Gillard is
facing the internal political strife amid economic strength.
 Consumer confidence  in the country rose to the highest level
since November, a private survey showed last week, and the
nation’s unemployment rate dropped to 5.1 percent, compared with
the 7.9 percent average for advanced economies last year
measured by the  International Monetary Fund .  Econony’s Growth  Australia’s A$1.4 trillion ($1.51 trillion) economy grew
2.5 percent in the year through the third quarter of 2011, a
period that spans the first full 12 months of Gillard’s
premiership, according to the latest figures available from the
Australian Bureau of Statistics.  “One of the ironies of it all is this isn’t a
dysfunctional government -- it’s getting things done,” said
 Nick Economou , a political analyst at Melbourne’s Monash
University and co-author of “Media, Power and Politics in
Australia.” Any failure to resolve the leadership issue
“distorts the message they’re trying to get across,” he said.  Carbon Tax  Among Gillard’s legislative achievements is a carbon tax
that she said before the 2010 election she would oppose, along
with a 30 percent tax on coal and iron-ore profits. Mining
companies including  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  have warned the measures
will hurt investment and job growth in the nation, which has
seen its exports led by Chinese demand for its natural
resources.  Gillard had another legislative victory on Feb. 15 when
Australia’s lower house passed legislation to introduce means-
testing of rebates for private-health insurance. That and the
mining tax bill are forecast to be approved in the upper house,
where the Greens hold the balance of power.  A “small group” of Labor lawmakers is destabilizing the
government with speculation about the leadership, Trade Minister
Craig Emerson told the ABC.  ‘Be a Mug’  A comeback for Rudd would be an historic turnaround. Labor
lawmakers who opposed his autocratic style of leadership moved
to depose him on poor poll ratings driven by his own effort to
pursue a tax on resources profits.  “I’ve certainly reflected a lot on the last several years
and you’d be a mug if you didn’t learn something from the
past,” Rudd said in the interview with Sky, which followed a
video uploaded on YouTube that shows him during his term as
prime minister swearing and blaming others for having the wrong
wording as he tried to pre-record a speech in Chinese. The
former diplomat is fluent in Mandarin.  Gillard, who has denied her office was responsible for
leaking the YouTube video, faced setbacks last month including
independent lawmaker  Andrew Wilkie ’s decision to withdraw
support for the government, reducing its parliamentary majority
to one, and opposition demands for an inquiry into Labor’s role
in clashes between police and aboriginal protesters.  Rudd has the backing of 40 of the 103 Labor lawmakers in
the party caucus, the Australian newspaper reported Feb. 18,
without saying where it obtained the information. Gillard’s
backers estimate she has 45 votes, the paper said. The foreign
minister will be overseas for meetings in Mexico,  Washington ,
 London , Tunisia and Malaysia until about Feb. 26, according to
his office. Parliament returns in the capital, Canberra, the
next day.  ‘Well Short’  “Kevin hasn’t got the numbers to challenge,” Crean told
the ABC today. “He’s well short of anywhere near a majority.”  Gillard’s support among voters as preferred prime minister
fell 3 percentage points to 37 percent, with opposition leader
Abbott rising 3 points to 40 percent, according to the Newspoll
survey conducted Feb. 10 to Feb. 12. The  Labor Party ’s primary
vote rose 2 points to 32 percent, behind 46 percent for Abbott’s
Liberal-National coalition. The survey of 1,141 people had a
margin of error of plus or minus 3 percentage points.  “I would find it easier to work with Kevin Rudd than Julia
Gillard,” Wilkie told Sky News yesterday, adding he had
discussed the possibility of Rudd returning as prime minister in
a meeting with him in November. “Kevin clearly wants the job
back.”  Abbott has said Australians can’t afford the carbon tax.
The opposition leader has highlighted that last year the nation
recorded its worst jobs growth in 19 years as currency
appreciation made manufacturers uncompetitive.  ‘Cannibalizing Itself’  “Every day the coalition is preparing for government while
the government is preparing for another leadership change,”
Abbott told reporters in Sydney today. “What we need is a
government that is getting on with the job, not a government
that’s in the business of cannibalizing itself.”  The Australian dollar has strengthened more than 60 percent
against the  U.S. dollar  in the past three years, making products
less competitive in overseas markets.  BlueScope Steel Ltd. (BSL) , the
country’s largest steel producer, in August shuttered its export
division. Toyota Motor Corp. and General Motors Co. have cut
jobs in Australia this year, citing the currency’s strength,
while Alcoa Inc. is reviewing the future of an aluminum smelter.  Australian bookmaker Sportsbet, which says it’s the
nation’s largest online betting agency by revenue, is offering
to return A$1.90 on every A$1 bet should Rudd be Labor leader at
the next election, down from A$2.35 yesterday. A winning bet on
Gillard would return $2.10.  “Most Australians are getting pretty sick of the
leadership speculation federally,” said Queensland Premier
Bligh, who is campaigning for state elections on March 24. “The
sooner this is resolved one way or the other the better.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  