-- Gillard Refrains From Calling Vote as Australia Ruling-Party Woes Persist
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t   a n d   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-02-21T01:21:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/gillard-refrains-from-calling-vote-as-australia-ruling-party-woes-persist.html
Australian Prime Minister Julia Gillard and predecessor  Kevin Rudd  failed to quash speculation
they will face off in a party leadership contest, raising the
prospect of a prolonged showdown.  Rudd, whom Gillard ousted in 2010 and is now foreign
minister, said “that is not in prospect” when asked at a press
briefing whether he would participate if a leadership
competition occurs. Gillard told reporters in Canberra she has
the “strong support” of her Labor caucus, while declining to
specify whether she’d call an internal vote.  Lack of a clear resolution over speculation Rudd harbors
comeback plans would hamper Gillard’s strategy to build support
based on a legislative record of success from climate-change and
mining-tax measures to a health insurance overhaul. With
parliament resuming session next week and a state election
looming in Queensland, public focus on Labor infighting would
aid opposition leader  Tony Abbott .  “If Labor’s political stalemate stays in limbo, public
support for the government will continue to drop off,”  Andrew Hughes , who conducts research in political marketing at the
 Australian National University  in Canberra, said after the
remarks by Gillard and Rudd. “The longer they delay, the more
airtime is given to the negatives of Labor. Abbott just has to
sit back and wait.”  Gillard’s minority government relies on Green party and
independent members for support, so any leadership change could
heighten the risk of an early election, before her signature
climate-change and mining-tax initiatives are planned to take
effect July 1. Companies including  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  have warned
the measures risk hurting investment and job growth.  Cheeseman Conversation  “I enjoy the strong support of my colleagues,” Gillard,
50, said at a news conference in Sydney today. She confirmed she
spoke yesterday to Labor lawmaker Darren Cheeseman, who broke
ranks over the weekend to openly call for the prime minister to
quit and hand the job back to Rudd. She declined to give details
of their conversation.  Australia’s economic strength offers inducements to
investors even amid political turmoil, according to Chris Dickman, a senior  money manager  at Altius Asset Management Pty
Ltd. in Sydney, which started a fixed-income fund in June.  The nation’s 5.1 percent  unemployment rate  compares with
the 7.9 percent average for advanced economies last year. Its
government debt was 23 percent of gross domestic product in
2011, against 104 percent for advanced nations, International
Monetary Fund data show.  Bonds, Stocks  “Regardless of who is leading the government,  Australia ’s
fiscal imbalance is far smaller than many industrialized
nations,” Dickman said. “For bond investors, that outweighs
any possible short-term negative impacts of the leadership
uncertainty.”  Yields on benchmark 10-year government notes were little
changed after the Australia’s central bank said in minutes
released today that it has the scope to ease policy if
demand were to “weaken materially.” The bonds yielded 4.11
percent at noon, down from 4.12 percent yesterday, having
yielded 4.05 percent on Feb. 17. The S&P/ASX 200 Index of
equities rose 0.6 percent to 4,281.6 at 12:19 p.m., while the
Australian dollar fell 0.3 percent to $1.073.  Business leaders said lack of clarity on the political
outlook may hurt confidence as world growth slows.  “We need to make sure that there are as few distractions
introduced as a result of our own domestic politics as
possible,” said Peter Anderson, chief executive officer of the
 Australian Chamber of Commerce and Industry , in an interview
with Australian Broadcasting Corp. “We have a very tough global
environment in which Australian business needs to compete.”  ‘Nation-Changing’  Gillard and Rudd each flagged achievements during their
tenures as prime minister in public appearances in recent days,
amid calls from some party members for a vote when parliament
opens Feb. 28.  The prime minister, a former labor lawyer who’s also the
nation’s first female head of government, yesterday said her
record includes “nation-changing reform” through carbon levy
and mining-tax legislation.  Rudd, 54, highlighted in an interview with Australia’s  Sky
News  broadcast Feb. 19 that as leader from 2007-2010, Australia
stayed out of recession during the global financial crisis and
prevented “mass unemployment.” Speaking to reporters ahead of
a Group of 20 meeting in  Mexico , he said Australia “has a seat
at the top global economic table” because of the steps his
government took in 2008 and 2009.  Some Rudd backers in the caucus are drafting a petition to
force a leadership ballot after parliament resumes in Canberra
next week, Sky reported today, without citing sources.  ‘Getting Smaller’  “It is a small group,” Trade Minister Craig Emerson told
Sky today. “It is not getting bigger. If anything, the small
group is getting smaller.”  “The reality is you’ve got two people running for this
position, whether Kevin wants to admit it or not,” former
Queensland state Labor Premier Peter Beattie said in an
interview with ABC Radio yesterday. “It’s time there was a
caucus meeting and the matter is dealt with once and for all,”
he said, with the Feb. 28 resumption of parliament the most
“practical” date. “Otherwise the damage to the  Labor party ’s
campaign in Queensland will be simply immeasurable.”  Labor is on course to lose Queensland in a March 24 vote,
polls indicate. A Galaxy poll conducted Feb. 15-16 showed Labor,
led by Queensland Premier Anna Bligh, trailing the opposition by
20 percentage points ahead of the election. The survey of 800
people, which gave no margin of error, shows the Liberal-
National coalition with 60 percent and Labor with 40 percent in
the two-party preferred voting system.  ‘Pretty Sick’  “Most Australians are getting pretty sick and tired of the
leadership speculation federally,” said Bligh. “The sooner
this is resolved one way or the other, the better.”  A Queensland loss would follow Labor’s defeat last year in
New South Wales, the most populous state. The next federal
election isn’t due until next year.  Cabinet ministers have rallied behind Gillard. “There is
no doubt in the minds of lots of caucus members that the
leadership speculation is a real distraction,” Minister for
Workplace Relations  Bill Shorten  said in an ABC interview last
night. “She will sort out the issues of leadership speculation
but she will do it at a time when she thinks it isn’t taking too
much away from everything else that we’ve got to get done.”  Rudd, attending a Group of 20 foreign ministers’ meeting in
Los Cabos, Mexico, told reporters yesterday that reports of his
challenging Gillard are “based on an untruth” and denied he
has sought anyone’s support for the job.  Rudd Preferred  A Feb. 2-4 Nielsen poll revealed 57 percent of voters
surveyed preferred Rudd as Labor leader, compared with 35
percent for Gillard. The survey of 1,400 people had a margin of
error of plus or minus 2.6 percentage points.  “If I was Rudd I would hold my fire right now because I
think there are two more flash points where he would be in a
much better position to challenge -- one is after the Queensland
election, the other one is after the introduction of the carbon
tax” in July, said  Nick Economou , a political analyst at
 Melbourne ’s Monash University and co-author of “Media, Power
and Politics in Australia.”  Gillard’s support among voters as preferred prime minister
fell 3 percentage points to 37 percent, with Abbott rising 3
points to 40 percent, according to a Newspoll survey conducted
Feb. 10-12. The Labor Party’s primary vote rose 2 points to 32
percent, behind 46 percent for Abbott’s Liberal-National
coalition. The survey of 1,141 people had a margin of error of
plus or minus 3 percentage points.  Former Boxer  Abbott, 54, a former amateur boxer who studied for the
priesthood in the 1980s, has said Australians can’t afford the
carbon tax. The opposition leader has highlighted that last year
the nation recorded its worst jobs growth in 19 years as
currency appreciation made manufacturers uncompetitive.  The Australian dollar has strengthened more than 60 percent
against the  U.S. dollar  in the past three years, making products
less competitive in overseas markets.  BlueScope Steel Ltd. (BSL) , the
country’s largest steel producer, in August shuttered its export
division.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and  General Motors Co. (GM)  have cut
jobs in Australia this year, citing the currency’s strength,
while  Alcoa Inc. (AA)  is reviewing the future of an aluminum smelter.  “Every day the coalition is preparing for government while
the government is preparing for another leadership change,”
Abbott told reporters in Sydney yesterday. “What we need is a
government that is getting on with the job, not a government
that’s in the business of cannibalizing itself.”  ‘Great Reformer’  The opposition chief is the “big beneficiary” of Labor
strife, former Victoria state Labor Premier Steve Bracks wrote
in an opinion piece in the Australian newspaper yesterday. While
initiatives that “place  Julia Gillard  as one of Labor’s great
reformers” haven’t been popular, an early election would forego
advantages from tax cuts kicking in later this year, he wrote.  Greens leader Bob Brown today called on Gillard to assert
her authority as she had the backing of the majority of the
party. Australians were tired of the leadership turmoil, he said
in an ABC Radio interview today.  “I’m picking it up everywhere,” he said. “People want to
get on with the good governance of this country.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Scott in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  