-- Gold Imports by India Seen Dropping From Record to Make China Top Consumer
-- B y   M a d e l e n e   P e a r s o n   a n d   S w a n s y   A f o n s o
-- 2012-02-21T09:33:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/gold-imports-by-india-seen-declining-from-record-on-high-prices.html
Gold imports by  India (INMOGOLD)  are poised to
decline for the first time in three years as rising prices deter
jewelry buyers and investors, potentially allowing  China  to
overtake the country as the world’s largest consumer.  Purchases may drop 7 percent to 900 metric tons this year,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of
eight analysts, brokers and jewelers including  Rajesh Exports
Ltd. (RJEX) , the biggest gold-jewelry exporter.  India  bought a record
969 tons in 2011, according to the World Gold Council.  Bullion is climbing for the 12th year as investors seek a
store of wealth amid volatility in stock markets, depreciating
currencies and the threat of inflation. China’s consumption may
surpass India this year after surging 20 percent to 769.8 tons
in 2011, the council says. Use in India fell 7 percent to 933.4
tons last year as the currency slumped to a record low, cooling
purchases for festivals and marriages.  “With the prices of gold going up, nothing fits into the
budget of the customer,” Ramesh Pahlajani, partner at Mumbai-
based Bherumal Shamandas Jewellers, said in an interview.
“Demand for gold has been quite subdued.”  Imports plunged 44 percent in the fourth quarter to 157
tons as jewelry and investment demand declined, the council said
on Feb. 16. Bullion futures in India rallied 32 percent last
year, exceeding the 10 percent advance in global prices.  Bridal Trousseau  In India, gold is traditionally bought during the festival
season and for weddings as part of the bridal trousseau. The
number of days this year considered to be auspicious for
marriages will be the fewest since 2004, potentially trimming
demand, Ajay Mitra, managing director,  Middle East  and India at
the council, said on Feb. 16.  “The amount of gold I buy has been reduced and we have to
budget our expenses,” said Khushboo Jain, 24, while shopping in
Zaveri Bazaar, Mumbai’s main jewelry market, ahead of her April
wedding. “I am buying for my marriage and in the future it will
be an investment for me in times of financial crisis.”  Gold for immediate delivery climbed 0.4 percent to
$1,742.02 an ounce at 2:46 p.m. in Mumbai today. The metal
reached a record $1,921.15 an ounce in September.  “Gold is still something that every household believes in
owning,” said S. Subramaniam, chief financial officer at  Titan
Industries Ltd. (TTAN) , India’s biggest retailer of gold jewelry.
“Gold is not just about an ornament or adornment, it’s about
investment as well.”  Gold holdings in exchange-traded products were 2,388.683
tons on Feb. 17, near the record 2,392.976 tons reached Dec. 13,
according to data tracked by Bloomberg. In India, investors held
a record 96.14 billion rupees in funds backed by gold as of Jan.
31, according to the Association of  Mutual Funds  in India data.  “Demand in India has been slow as expenses have been
rising because of inflation,” Rakesh Jain, owner of Mohanlal
Otarmal Jewellers in Mumbai, said in an interview at his store
in Zaveri Bazaar. “People do not have much savings to spend on
gold. The buying capacity of people has gone down.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Madelene Pearson in Melbourne at 
 mpearson1@bloomberg.net ;
Swansy Afonso in Mumbai at 
 safonso2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  