-- Goldman Sachs Said to Boost Samurai Bond Offer After Delay
-- B y   Y u s u k e   M i y a z a w a   a n d   R a c h e l   E v a n s
-- 2012-02-20T10:52:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/goldman-sachs-said-to-increase-proposed-samurai-bond-offering.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  plans to
increase its first sale of Samurai bonds in more than four years
to at least 75 billion yen ($943 million) from an original
target of 50 billion yen, according to a person with direct
knowledge of the matter.  The brokerage will offer at least 70 billion yen of five-
year notes priced to yield 205 basis points more than the yen
swap rate, the person said, asking not to be identified because
the details are private. Goldman also intends to sell at least 5
billion yen of five-year, floating-rate notes at 220 basis
points more than the three-month London interbank offered rate
for yen, said the person. The bonds could price as soon as
tomorrow, the person said.  New York-based Goldman Sachs delayed the sale last week
after Moody’s Investors Service placed it under review for
downgrade, another person familiar with the matter said at the
time. The bank last sold Samurai bonds in January 2008, when it
raised 148.5 billion yen, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “I thought the spreads would be tighter than this,”
Yoshihiro Nakatani, a Tokyo-based senior fund manager at Asahi
Life Asset Management Co., said in a phone interview today.
“The five-year maturity of the fixed-rate bonds is a
disadvantage for investors, given their price volatility.”  Record Start  Goldman Sachs initially marketed the fixed-rate notes to
yield 170 basis points to 195 basis points more than the yen
swap rate before price guidance was raised to a 195 basis point
to 210 basis point spread, the person said on Feb. 17.  Hiroko Matsumoto, a spokeswoman at Goldman Sachs in  Tokyo ,
declined to comment on the sale when contacted by telephone
today.  Goldman Sachs’ sale would make 2012 the busiest start to
the year on record for yen-denominated notes issued by overseas
companies, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yusuke Miyazawa in Tokyo at 
 ymiyazawa3@bloomberg.net ;
Rachel Evans in  Hong Kong  at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  