-- Greek Rescue in Prospect as Ministers Meet
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2012-02-21T01:24:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/greece-moves-toward-second-bailout-as-default-risk-spurs-european-leaders.html
European governments moved toward a
second rescue of  Greece , calculating that the 130 billion-euro
($172 billion) cost of a fresh bailout is a price worth paying
to prevent a default that could shatter the euro area.  Finance ministers haggled into the night in Brussels over
the terms of new loans to Greece and a possible contribution by
central banks, and leaned on investors to accept bigger write-
offs in a bond exchange that is vital to staving off a Greek
bankruptcy next month. Prospects for reaching a deal are good,
though more talks are necessary, a European diplomat said.  Bondholders’ response to the swap, Greece’s ability to
prolong two years of austerity, and a series of parliamentary
approvals in northern European countries gripped by an anti-
bailout mindset loom as risks to the latest salvage operation.  “We still have a bit of work to do,” German Finance
Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  told reporters yesterday as he
arrived for the meeting of euro-area finance chiefs. “We’ve set
out to wrap up the decision on a new aid program for Greece. I’m
confident.”  No time was set for a press conference after the meeting,
which began at 3:30 p.m. yesterday. The euro dipped as the
bartering dragged on. It bought $1.3220 at 2 a.m. Brussels time,
down from as much as $1.3277 yesterday.  Euro leaders point to declining bond yields in Italy and
 Spain  as evidence that investors are less fearful that the
turmoil in Greece, representing 2.4 percent of the continental
economy, will spill across borders.  Summit-Level Pledge  Finance chiefs from the 17 euro nations convened two years
and nine days after Greece’s fiscal woes prompted a summit-level
pledge of “determined and coordinated action, if needed” to
safeguard the currency.  Since then, creditor countries and Greece have sought
leverage over each other. Rich countries led by Germany have
tied aid to ever-stricter conditions, while Greece counts on
 Europe ’s fear that letting it go bust would destabilize, and
possibly wreck, the 13-year-old monetary union.  Finance ministers tried to make Greece’s aid numbers add
up, considering lower  interest rates  or longer loan maturities
to bring Greek debt down to a target of 120 percent of gross
domestic product in 2020, two officials said last week.  IMF Estimates  Unchanged terms would leave the debt at 129 percent of GDP
by 2020, too high to be “sustainable,” according to European
and International Monetary Fund estimates that were first shown
to the ministers on a Feb. 15 conference call.  Greece’s debt might balloon to as much as 160 percent of
GDP by 2020 if the economy fails to rebound, the selloff of
state assets falls short of targets and bureaucratic snags stall
reforms, the European-IMF analysis showed.  “Given the risks, the Greek program may thus remain
accident-prone, with questions about sustainability hanging over
it,” the analysis concluded.  By midnight, the ministers were looking to settle for Greek
debt in the range of 123 percent or 124 percent of GDP as long
as bondholders offer greater-than-planned debt relief, said an
Italian government official who declined to be named.  Previously, investors offered to take a net present value
loss of 70 percent on Greek bonds. Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  led the bargaining with the bondholders, represented
by  Charles Dallara  and  Jean Lemierre  of the  Institute of
International Finance .  Mid-March Deadline  European governments need to weld together the program to
give enough time for the bond exchange -- designed ultimately to
write off about 100 billion euros of Greek debt -- to go ahead
by a mid-March deadline.  The target is for the swap offer to run from Feb. 22 to
March 9, so the exchange takes place in time for Greece to
escape the full 14.5 billion-euro cost of a March 20 bond
redemption, German lawmakers were told last week by government
officials.  “We are here today ready to conclude this long process,”
Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos said. “I am
optimistic, but in any case we need a clear political
approval.”  Also up for debate at the meeting, attended by European
Central Bank President  Mario Draghi , is the role of the
politically independent ECB and its national branches in the
bailout that follows 110 billion euros awarded in May 2010.  ECB Options  The ECB could funnel profits from crisis-driven purchases
of Greek bonds back to national governments and on into the
Greek package. Such a maneuver would knock 5.5 percentage points
off Greece’s debt by 2020, the debt analysis showed.  Another option is for national central banks to join
private investors in taking losses on Greek bonds held in their
investment portfolios. That would cut Greece’s 2020 debt by 3.5
percentage points, according to the analysis.  Central-bank contributions and bigger-than-planned write-
offs by private bondholders would be two ways of drumming up the
extra funds, Austrian Finance Minister Maria Fekter said.  “Governments can’t make more tax money available -- that
would overburden the states,” Fekter told reporters. “We in
 Austria  would have problems getting it through parliament.”  Fekter said she is also on guard against the IMF springing
a surprise tonight by cutting its share of the  Greek loans  from
its previous practice of delivering one third of the total.  ‘Significant Strides’  Christine Lagarde , who was French finance minister when the
crisis began and took over the IMF last year, declined to say
how much the Washington-based fund will steer toward the new
package.  “Greece has manifestly made very significant strides and
now the work has to go on,” Lagarde said on her way in. “The
IMF is here to be part of the work.”  Frustrated with Greece’s inability to meet two years of
targets for cutting the deficit and selling off state assets,
donor countries are also insisting on more control over how
Greece spends the money.  Germany ’s Schaeuble said Greece accepts the idea of paying
the international funds into a special account, which would give
priority to keeping Greece solvent before releasing money for
the country’s  budget .  The Netherlands, one of four euro states still ranked as
AAA borrowers, is pushing for monitors from the “troika” of
 European Commission , ECB and IMF to set up a full-time
observation post in  Athens .  ‘Permanent Troika’  “I am myself in favor of a permanent troika in Athens,”
Dutch Finance Minister  Jan Kees de Jager  said before the
Brussels meeting. “When you look at the derailments in Greece
which have occurred several times now, it is necessary that
there is some kind of permanent presence.”  Greece upheld part of its side of the bargain by spelling
out 325 million euros in additional spending cuts, the latest of
the unpopular measures that have provoked street protests in
Athens.  The  Greek economy  shrank 7 percent in the fourth quarter
from a year earlier as unemployment surged past 20 percent in
November. The country’s output is forecast to shrink for the
fifth straight year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Black in Brussels at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  