-- Greece Moves Toward Second Bailout as Default Spooks Europe
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2012-02-20T15:16:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/greece-moves-toward-second-bailout-as-default-spooks-europe.html
European governments moved toward a
second rescue of  Greece , calculating that the 130 billion-euro
($172 billion) cost of a fresh bailout is a price worth paying
to prevent a default that could shatter the euro area.  Finance ministers will weigh the terms of new loans to
Greece and a possible contribution by central banks at a meeting
today in Brussels. They also aim to start a bond exchange with
private investors meant to stave off a Greek bankruptcy next
month.  Bondholders’ response to the swap, Greece’s ability to
prolong two years of austerity and a gantlet of parliamentary
approvals in northern European countries gripped by an anti-
bailout mindset loom as risks to the latest salvage operation.  “We still have a bit of work to do,” German Finance
Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  told reporters today as he arrived
for the meeting of euro-area finance chiefs. “We’ve set out to
wrap up the decision on a new aid program for Greece. I’m
confident.”  No time was set for a press conference after the meeting,
under way since 3:30 p.m.  Euro leaders point to declining bond yields in Italy and
 Spain  as evidence that investors are less fearful that the
turmoil in Greece, representing 2.4 percent of the continental
economy, will spill across borders.  The euro gained as much as 1 percent to $1.3277 today,
bringing its climb against the dollar this year to more than 2
percent. European stocks rose, with the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP) 
advancing 0.9 percent to a six-month high.  Summit-Level Pledge  Tonight’s meeting is two years and nine days after Greece’s
fiscal woes burst upon the 17-nation  euro zone , prompting a
summit-level pledge of “determined and coordinated action, if
needed” to safeguard the currency.  Since then, creditor countries and Greece have sought
leverage over each other. Rich countries led by Germany have
tied aid to ever-stricter conditions, while Greece counts on
 Europe ’s fear that letting it go bust would destabilize, and
possibly wreck, the 13-year-old monetary union.  “It is the intention of nobody to have Greece outside the
euro area,” Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  said
as he arrived to chair the meeting. The size of the public aid
is “still open.”  Finance ministers will try to make Greece’s aid numbers add
up, possibly offering lower  interest rates  or longer loan
maturities to bring Greek debt down to a target of 120 percent
of gross domestic product in 2020, two officials said last week.  IMF Estimates  Unchanged terms would leave the debt at 129 percent of GDP
by 2020, too high to be “sustainable,” according to European
and International Monetary Fund estimates that were shown to the
ministers on a Feb. 15 conference call, two officials said.  “We are here today ready to conclude this long process,”
Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos said. “I am
optimistic, but in any case we need a clear political
approval.”  Up for debate at the meeting, attended by European Central
Bank President  Mario Draghi , is the role of the politically
independent ECB and its national branches in the bailout that
follows 110 billion euros awarded in May 2010.  Central-bank contributions and bigger-than-planned
writeoffs by private bondholders would be two ways of drumming
up the extra funds, Austrian Finance Minister Maria Fekter said.  “Governments can’t make more tax money available -- that
would overburden the states,” Fekter told reporters. “We in
 Austria  would have problems getting it through parliament.”  Previous Practice  Fekter said she is also on guard against the IMF springing
a surprise tonight by cutting its share of the  Greek loans  from
its previous practice of delivering one third of the total.  Christine Lagarde , who was French finance minister when the
crisis began and took over the IMF last year, declined to say
how much the Washington-based fund will steer toward the new
package.  “Greece has manifestly made very significant strides and
now the work has to go on,” Lagarde said on her way in. “The
IMF is here to be part of the work.”  European governments need to weld together the program
tonight to give enough time for the bond exchange -- designed
ultimately to write off about 100 billion euros of Greek debt --
to go ahead by a mid-March deadline.  The target is for the swap offer to run from Feb. 22 to
March 9, so the exchange takes place in time for Greece to
escape the full 14.5 billion euro cost of a March 20 bond
redemption, German lawmakers were told last week by government
officials.  State Assets  Frustrated with Greece’s inability to meet two years of
targets for cutting the deficit and selling off state assets,
donor countries are also insisting on more control over how
Greece spends the money.  Germany ’s Schaeuble said Greece accepts the idea of paying
the international funds into a special account, which would give
priority to keeping Greece solvent before releasing money for
the country’s  budget .  Greece upheld part of its side of the bargain yesterday by
spelling out 325 million euros in additional spending cuts, the
latest of the unpopular measures that have provoked street
protests in  Athens .  The  Greek economy  shrank 7 percent in the fourth quarter
from a year earlier as unemployment surged past 20 percent in
November. The country’s output is forecast to shrink for the
fifth straight year.  “It’s like a puzzle: all the pieces are on the table, we
have to put them together,” French Finance Minister  Francois Baroin  said. “That’s what we’re going to do this afternoon.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
Rainer Buergin in Brussels at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  