-- Gucci Using Python as Rich Drive Profit Margin Above 30%: Retail
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2012-02-20T23:00:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/gucci-using-python-as-rich-drive-profit-margin.html
For  Gucci  Chief Executive Officer
Patrizio Di Marco, attracting the wealthiest clientele comes at
a higher price.  Since joining Gucci from sister company  Bottega Veneta  in
2009, Di Marco has put more emphasis on precious materials and
craftsmanship amid concerns the label was becoming less
exclusive. This “fine-tuning,” as he puts it, accompanied by a
30 percent increase in average selling prices for handbags, is
boosting sales and margins even as  Europe ’s debt crisis weighs
on consumer confidence and growth slows in  China .  “In any possible psychological swing, you’ll always have
the upper tiers of the pyramid that stay there, that keep on
being wealthy, and they stick to you,” Di Marco, 49, said in an
interview in Paris. “The important thing is to do whatever it
takes to have this loyalty base increase.”  Gucci is using its double-G logo more sparingly, producing
bags in python and adding crocodile and leather trim to printed
fabric purses as it seeks to appease its wealthiest and most
demanding clients as well as others like them. About 5 percent
of the Florence, Italy-based label’s customers account for “a
good deal” of sales, the CEO said, declining to elaborate.  At Gucci, “if you look at the price and you look at the
products, you say that this is definitely worth more,” he said.
“No one has a crystal ball and we try to do our best with
consumers, but they are the kings and they decide.”  Record Revenue  Revenue at the maker of $4,100 green python shoulder bags
climbed 19 percent on a comparable basis to a record 3.14
billion euros ($4.16 billion) in 2011, though the fourth-
quarter’s 12 percent gain disappointed analysts including CA
Cheuvreux’s Thomas Mesmin. Total sales at owner PPR SA’s luxury
unit, of which Gucci is the largest brand, rose 19 percent in
the last three months of 2011. The division’s growth was
slightly higher in January, according to PPR.  Moving average prices higher should help Gucci’s operating
margin widen to 31.8 percent in 2013 and lift so-called organic
sales 9 percent this year and next, estimates  Antoine Belge , an
analyst at HSBC. Gucci’s profit as a percentage of sales was
30.2 percent in 2011 compared with a 35.3 percent margin at  LVMH
Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC) ’s fashion and leather goods unit,
which is adopting a similar strategy at its Vuitton brand.  Di Marco started shifting Gucci upscale in 2009 as the
luxury industry endured its worst year. Economic turmoil has
deepened with  Italy  in its fourth recession since 2001 and
European finance ministers pressing  Greece  to implement cuts to
secure another rescue payment.  Cash Crackdown  Europe isn’t “a picture of health and happiness,” which
is a concern, particularly regarding local consumption, Di Marco
said. In Italy, local traffic is down at Gucci’s stores and
legislation limiting cash purchases to 1,000 euros hurt sales in
December and January, he said. Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  introduced the cap in December to wean Italians off using
so much cash, which makes it easier to evade the taxes needed to
shore up the country’s finances.  Still, store visits by Gucci’s best customers in Italy are
“stable if not increasing,” showing that efforts to “go
deeper” with these clients are working, he said. Moreover, an
increase in the number of tourists from  China (PP)  and  Russia  is
helping boost European sales, the CEO said. Gucci gets less than
50 percent of sales from tourists in Europe, he said.  China Breather  In China, sales are “fine” so far this year, Di Marco
said, declining to specify further. After expanding rapidly in
the region since the second half of the last decade, “we need
to breathe a minute and consolidate the structure,” he said.
The labor market in China, where Gucci employs 1,500 people, is
very mobile and it takes time to train staff, Di Marco said.  “You may have the best religion in the world, but if you
don’t have preachers and missionaries, you’ll go nowhere,” he
said.  The label will open 45 stores in 2012, of which about 20
will be in Asia Pacific region, excluding  Japan , according to
PPR. Chinese expansion will focus on so-called second- and
third-tier cities, while Gucci will also renovate or relocate
some units in Beijing and  Shanghai , Di Marco said.  “The challenge is to keep the competitive edge that you
have when you open first,” he said. Gucci opened 59 stores in
2011, net of closures, taking to 376 the number of boutiques it
operated as of Dec. 31. It has about 9,000 employees worldwide.  Gucci will maintain “pretty much” the same product mix in
2012 as it has in the last two years, Di Marco said. Leather
goods accounted for 56 percent of 2011 sales, while footwear
accounted for 13 percent and apparel for 12 percent.  Retail Sales  The company aims to increase the portion of sales its gets
from retail from 74 percent as it continues taking over some of
its so-called corners in department stores as well as investing
in e-commerce and digital initiatives, Di Marco said. He
declined to quantify the goal for the distribution mix.  PPR said Feb. 16 it’s seeking 54 percent of revenue from
retail by 2020 and will raise luxury prices this year without
specifying by how much.  Hermes International SCA (RMS) , the French
maker of Birkin bags and silk scarves, plans to increase prices
by as much as 5 percent this year, according to Mesmin.  While higher prices and more favorable product and
distribution mixes will help drive margin improvement at Gucci,
the shift upscale will take time as consumer perceptions aren’t
“something that can be dramatically improved in the course of
one day,” Di Marco said.  To drive change, coherence is key, he said.  “Sometimes when I go to bed, I have a lot of concerns,” 
Di Marco said. “The important thing is to wake up in the morning 
and be optimistic, not on how things will go or happen but about 
being very much consistent in what you do.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at   smarley1@bloomberg.net  