-- Libya to Create Reconstruction Fund, Stock Exchange Chief Says
-- B y   S a l e h   S a r r a r
-- 2012-02-20T14:18:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/libya-to-create-reconstruction-fund-stock-exchange-chief-says.html
Libya  will create a real-estate fund
to help rebuild the country after last year’s war to oust
 Muammar Qaddafi , said Ahmed Karoud, the general manager of the
Libyan Stock Market.  The fund will be set up within six months, drawing
investment from individuals and non-government companies, and
will be traded on the exchange, Karoud said in an interview in
Tripoli. Another fund for Islamic financial products will be set
up within the same period, though it won’t be traded, he said,
declining to give further details because the matter is still
under discussion.  “This will give an indication to the world that the Libyan
economy is beginning to recover,” Karoud said.  Libya’s five-year-old bourse was shut down due to the
conflict that broke out last year and ended after Qaddafi was
driven from Tripoli in August and killed by rebel fighters some
two months later. The resumption of trading has been delayed by
“liquidity-related problems” and is scheduled this month,
Karoud said.  Thirteen companies were listed on the exchange, including
the bourse itself, with a combined market capitalization of
about 3.9 billion dinars ($3.1 billion). The biggest companies
include Gumhouria Bank, Sahara Bank and Wahda Bank, accounting
together for about half of the market capitalization.  The bourse aims to expand beyond the banking and insurance
industries, Karoud said. “Our economy was closed and the public
sector was monopolized, now we want to activate the private
companies,” he said.  Al-Madar and Libyana, the country’s two mobile telephone
operators, are in talks over possible initial public offerings,
Karoud said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saleh Sarrar in Tripoli via the Dubai newsroom  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  