-- Icelandic Anger Brings Debt Forgiveness in Best Recovery Story
-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 2012-02-20T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/icelandic-anger-brings-record-debt-relief-in-best-crisis-recovery-story.html
Icelanders who pelted parliament
with rocks in 2009 demanding their leaders and bankers answer
for the country’s economic and financial collapse are reaping
the benefits of their anger.  Since the end of 2008, the island’s banks have forgiven
loans equivalent to 13 percent of gross domestic product, easing
the debt burdens of more than a quarter of the population,
according to a report published this month by the  Icelandic
Financial Services Association .  “You could safely say that  Iceland  holds the world record
in household debt relief,” said  Lars Christensen , chief
emerging markets economist at Danske Bank A/S in Copenhagen.
“Iceland followed the textbook example of what is required in a
crisis. Any economist would agree with that.”  The island’s steps to resurrect itself since 2008, when its
banks defaulted on $85 billion, are proving effective. Iceland’s
economy will this year outgrow the euro area and the developed
world on average, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development estimates. It costs about the same to insure against
an Icelandic default as it does to guard against a  credit event 
in  Belgium . Most polls now show Icelanders don’t want to join
the European Union, where the debt crisis is in its third year.  The island’s households were helped by an agreement between
the government and the banks, which are still partly controlled
by the state, to forgive debt exceeding 110 percent of home
values. On top of that, a Supreme Court ruling in June 2010
found loans indexed to foreign currencies were illegal, meaning
households no longer need to cover krona losses.  Crisis Lessons  “The lesson to be learned from Iceland’s crisis is that if
other countries think it’s necessary to write down debts, they
should look at how successful the 110 percent agreement was
here,” said Thorolfur Matthiasson, an economics professor at
the  University of Iceland  in Reykjavik, in an interview. “It’s
the broadest agreement that’s been undertaken.”  Without the relief, homeowners would have buckled under the
weight of their loans after the ratio of debt to incomes surged
to 240 percent in 2008, Matthiasson said.  Iceland’s $13 billion economy, which shrank 6.7 percent in
2009, grew 2.9 percent last year and will expand 2.4 percent
this year and next, the Paris-based OECD estimates. The euro
area will grow 0.2 percent this year and the OECD area will
expand 1.6 percent, according to November estimates.  Housing, measured as a subcomponent in the  consumer price
index , is now only about 3 percent below values in September
2008, just before the collapse.  Fitch Ratings  last week raised
Iceland to investment grade, with a stable outlook, and said the
island’s “unorthodox crisis policy response has succeeded.”  People Vs Markets  Iceland’s approach to dealing with the meltdown has put the
needs of its population ahead of the markets at every turn.  Once it became clear back in October 2008 that the island’s
banks were beyond saving, the government stepped in, ring-fenced
the domestic accounts, and left international creditors in the
lurch. The central bank imposed  capital controls  to halt the
ensuing sell-off of the krona and new state-controlled banks
were created from the remnants of the lenders that failed.  Activists say the banks should go even further in their
debt relief. Andrea J. Olafsdottir, chairman of the Icelandic
Homes Coalition, said she doubts the numbers provided by the
banks are reliable.  “There are indications that some of the financial
institutions in question haven’t lost a penny with the measures
that they’ve undertaken,” she said.  Fresh Demands  According to Kristjan Kristjansson, a spokesman for
Landsbankinn hf, the amount written off by the banks is probably
larger than the 196.4 billion kronur ($1.6 billion) that the
Financial Services Association estimates, since that figure only
includes debt relief required by the courts or the government.  “There are still a lot of people facing difficulties; at
the same time there are a lot of people doing fine,”
Kristjansson said. “It’s nearly impossible to say when enough
is enough; alongside every measure that is taken, there are
fresh demands for further action.”  As a precursor to the global Occupy Wall Street movement
and austerity protests across  Europe , Icelanders took to the
streets after the economic collapse in 2008. Protests escalated
in early 2009, forcing police to use teargas to disperse crowds
throwing rocks at parliament and the offices of then Prime
Minister Geir Haarde. Parliament is still deciding whether to
press ahead with an indictment that was brought against him in
September 2009 for his role in the crisis.  A new coalition, led by Social Democrat Prime Minister
Johanna Sigurdardottir, was voted into office in early 2009. The
authorities are now investigating most of the main protagonists
of the banking meltdown.  Legal Aftermath  Iceland’s special prosecutor has said it may indict as many
as 90 people, while more than 200, including the former chief
executives at the three biggest banks, face criminal charges.  Larus Welding, the former CEO of Glitnir Bank hf, once
Iceland’s second biggest, was indicted in December for granting
illegal loans and is now waiting to stand trial. The former CEO
of Landsbanki Islands hf, Sigurjon Arnason, has endured stints
of solitary confinement as his criminal investigation continues.  That compares with the U.S., where no top bank executives
have faced criminal prosecution for their roles in the subprime
mortgage meltdown. The Securities and Exchange Commission said
last year it had sanctioned 39 senior officers for conduct
related to the housing market meltdown.  The U.S. subprime crisis sent  home prices  plunging 33
percent from a 2006 peak. While households there don’t face the
same degree of debt relief as that pushed through in Iceland,
President  Barack Obama  this month proposed plans to expand loan
modifications, including some principal reductions.  According to Christensen at Danske Bank, “the bottom line
is that if households are insolvent, then the banks just have to
go along with it, regardless of the interests of the banks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  