-- Bharat Heavy Gains as India Plans Power Import Tax: Mumbai Mover
-- B y   K a r t i k a y   M e h r o t r a
-- 2012-02-21T05:59:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/india-may-levy-19-import-tax-on-power-gear-including-from-china.html
Bharat Heavy Electricals Ltd. (BHEL) ,
India’s biggest power equipment maker, was set to climb to a
three-month high on expectations the government will increase
duty on imports to help it compete with overseas rivals.  Bharat Heavy  surged  as much as 4.6 percent to 317.55 rupees
and traded at 315 rupees as of 10:42 a.m. in Mumbai, poised for
the highest level since Nov. 14. The benchmark  Sensitive Index (SENSEX) 
gained 0.5 percent.  India’s cabinet may approve a proposal to increase duty on
imports of generation equipment to 19 percent to help local
manufacturers Bharat Heavy and  Larsen & Toubro Ltd. (LT) , a
government official said. Chinese suppliers have won orders from
Reliance Power Ltd. and Adani Power Ltd. as  India  seeks to add
100,000 megawatts in generation capacity by 2017.  “There could be some cancellation of orders from Chinese
equipment makers, which could flow to Bharat Heavy or any
domestic player,” said Rohit Singh, an analyst with IDBI
Capital Market Services Ltd. “Chinese equipment is cheaper and
the percentage of their discounts comes to 15-20 percent, so
this will make private players like Reliance and Adani think
twice before ordering from abroad.”  A panel headed by Planning Commission member Arun Maira
recommended in 2010 a levy of 14 percent in  import duties  to
“bridge the disadvantage” faced by local manufacturers
competing with overseas rivals, especially from  China . India
currently imposes a 5 percent duty on import of equipment for
projects with less than 1,000-megawatt capacity.  No Special Protection  Bharat Heavy isn’t asking for any special protection,
Chairman B. Prasada Rao said in November after India’s power
equipment makers met Heavy Industries Minister Praful Patel
seeking the 14 percent duty.  “I have received feedback from the concerned ministries
and am confident that the cabinet will approve our proposal some
time in the next two weeks,” Power Secretary P. Uma Shankar
said on Feb. 19 by telephone from  New Delhi .  Chinese suppliers won 34 percent of new equipment orders
for additional capacity that’s planned in  Asia ’s second-fastest
growing major economy in the five years ending March 31,
according to the Ministry of Power.  Chinese equipment makers such as Shanghai Electric Group
Co. and Dongfang Electric Corp. want to tap into Prime Minister
 Manmohan Singh ’s $1 trillion infrastructure investment plan,
including $400 billion for power.  The federal budget is scheduled to be presented in India’s
parliament on March 16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartikay Mehrotra in New Delhi at 
 kmehrotra2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sam Nagarajan at 
 samnagarajan@bloomberg.net  