-- Investors Worth $10 Trillion Say Carbon May Hinder Profit
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e
-- 2012-02-20T14:39:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/investors-managing-10-trillion-say-co2-emissions-hinder-profits.html
Investors with about $10 trillion
under management, including  Banco Santander SA (SAN) , Henderson Group
Plc and Axa SA, urged companies to cut carbon-dioxide emissions
to protect themselves against future climate policies.  The Carbon Disclosure Project wrote to 415 of the world’s
biggest carbon-dioxide polluters on behalf of 92 banks, asset
managers, pension and insurance funds, according to an e-mailed
statement from the not-for-profit project in  London .  “The external costs of greenhouse gas emissions will
become internalized into company cash flows and profitability,
Paul Abberley, chief executive officer at Aviva Investors in
London said in the statement today. ‘‘Managing greenhouse gas
emissions is therefore essential to delivering sustainable
shareholder returns.’’  Utilities, manufacturers, transport companies, retailers
and communications firms are among businesses that were sent
letters, the project said, while declining to name the companies
targeted.  Banks and funds are increasingly seeking information on the
environmental policies of companies they invest in. Investors
who ignore the cost of emitting carbon are at risk of making a
mistake akin to those who invested in subprime mortgages, former
U.S. Vice President  Al Gore  said on Feb. 16. The  Bank of England 
said on Feb. 7 it will evaluate whether U.K. investments in
emitting industries pose a risk to financial stability.  ‘‘For investors it’s important to identify companies that
can manage carbon risk and turn it into a competitive advantage
rather than those that just use greenwash,’’ Anna Hyrske, head
of responsible investments for Ilmarinen Mutual Pension
Insurance Co., said by telephone from Helsinki.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Airlie in London at 
 cairlie@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  