-- Liquidity-Versus-Capital Debate Divides Stanford: Simon Johnson
-- B y   S i m o n   J o h n s o n
-- 2012-02-20T00:03:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/liquidity-versus-capital-debate-divides-stanford-simon-johnson.html
Top researchers at the Stanford
University Graduate School of Business are taking diametrically
opposing views on the Volcker rule, one of the most important
issues in financial reform. The sharp distinctions can be seen
in their public  comments  to U.S. bank regulators writing the
rule, the part of the Dodd-Frank law that restricts proprietary
trading by very large banks.  Far from being of purely academic interest, the debate
between these research teams cuts to the heart of the real
economic and political issues at stake. (For more background on
the proposed Volcker rule, I strongly recommend this comment
 letter  by Better Markets, a nonprofit group that advocates
stricter oversight.)  Darrell Duffie , a Stanford finance professor, is arguing
that the Volcker rule will significantly undermine liquidity --
meaning how easy it is to buy and sell securities without moving
prices -- in debt markets in the short run. He also says the
rule probably will increase financial-stability risks over time,
and potentially raise funding costs for nonfinancial companies.
He proposes dropping the rule in favor of making sure banks have
sufficient capital. Duffie seems confident that banks will have,
or will be close to having, adequate capital because of the
stricter requirements of the Basel III framework, the  agreement 
by the Group of 20 countries and others on how banks should be
funded.  Duffie’s work was  commissioned  by the Securities Industry
and Financial Markets Association, which will pay $50,000 to a
charity in lieu of compensating him. (Duffie discloses this
point in his paper; I am not implying that anything about this
debate is shaped by monetary payments. Duffie was also a
founding member last year of the Academic Advisory Council of
the Clearing House Association, a financial-sector lobby group;
he is no longer on that Council.)  Three other Stanford finance professors -- Anat Admati,
Peter DeMarzo and Paul Pfleiderer -- working with Professor
Martin Hellwig from  Germany  agree on the importance of
increasing capital, but  insist  that Basel III is just as poorly
designed as its predecessors. In their  assessment , there is
virtually no chance that the largest banks will have adequate
capital anytime soon. As a result, they have good reason to
support the Volcker rule. These professors, experts on market
microstructure and liquidity issues, believe the implications of
inadequate capital trump everything else.  The key point made by Admati and her colleagues is that it
isn’t enough to say vaguely “we’ll have more capital,” because
the executives at big banks fight strenuously against higher
 capital requirements , for good reason (to them). Bank executives
prefer relatively little equity financing and relatively more
debt, meaning they have less capital (a synonym for equity in
this context) and more leverage (meaning higher total assets
relative to their loss-absorbing shareholder equity).  Less equity and more debt means higher payoffs when things
go well, but bigger losses when mistakes are made or when
traders are unlucky. Big banks benefit from implicit downside
protection provided by the government. This is what it means to
be “too big to fail.” Global banks have become a thinly
disguised form of government-sponsored enterprise -- and it is
natural that the people running them want their subsidies to
continue and even increase over time.  Arguably, bank executives also represent the best interests
of shareholders when they seek to protect subsidies, although
the  evidence  from the last boom-bust cycle is that shareholders
did poorly compared with the cash compensation received by
insiders. Requiring 20 percent to 30 percent equity relative to
total assets would work for Admati. (You can listen to her on
this Planet Money  podcast  by  National Public Radio .) Under Basel
III, this measure, also known as the  leverage ratio , is a mere 3
percent.  Switzerland, with about a 20 percent capital requirement,
comes close to what the Admati team recommends, but it would be
tougher than even the Swiss on the risk weights that banks can
assign to various assets. Under Basel III, if banks put a lower
risk weighting on some assets, it allows them to lower their
capital, and thus effectively increase their borrowing capacity
-- and ultimately the danger of a collapse.  This is a big part of what went wrong in the U.S. with
mortgage-backed securities, and in  Europe  with sovereign debt.
In both cases, the risk weightings proved completely wrong. The
U.K. is discussing moving in the same direction as  Switzerland ,
although the pushback from bankers is enormous. The reality in
the U.S. is that capital, properly measured, is much lower and,
even under Basel III, likely to be woefully inadequate for
future cycles.  Duffie prefers to focus on liquidity and argues that the
Volcker rule will have two main effects. First, in the short
run, very big banks will do less market making, which will
reduce liquidity and presumably increase bid-ask spreads.
Second, over time, new market makers will enter the business,
but they won’t be banks and hence not subject to the Volcker
rule.  He is surely right that there will be new entrants, but why
should we fear this? The Dodd-Frank law stipulates that any firm
must be designated as systemically important if its failure
would damage the rest of the system. This isn’t just about size,
although size matters. MF Global Holdings Ltd., with about $41
billion in assets, failed without systemic implications even
though it was a broker-dealer. Goldman Sachs Group Inc., with a
balance sheet of around $900 billion, would surely pose systemic
risks whether or not it remains classified as a  bank holding
company , a status it was granted by the  Federal Reserve  in
September 2008 to prevent it from following Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. into collapse.  How much capital would be enough from Duffie’s perspective?
His comment letter doesn’t give a number and I haven’t found a
number or range in his other work or public remarks to compare
with the position of the Admati group. My private discussions
with him have not clarified matters, either. To me, his position
on capital remains frustratingly vague and very close --
although not identical -- to what I hear from financial industry
groups (some of whom have cited Duffie favorably in my
presence).  Even if Duffie is correct that the Volcker rule would have
a short-term impact on liquidity, how large would this be?
Again, I don’t find any estimates in his papers, so it’s hard to
know what could guide policy here. In congressional testimony,
other securities-industry representatives are similarly vague.  In any case, is maximum liquidity the right goal? Not
necessarily, because a high degree of liquidity in good times
can lull investors into a false sense of safety and reduce their
incentive to do careful credit analysis.  The Admati team has it exactly right on the incentives of
bank executives. Their ability to keep equity levels low is the
Achilles’ heel of our system. They devote great resources
through political contributions and other means to persuading
policy makers to keep these subsidies in place.  Duffie instead devotes his efforts to emphasizing the
importance of liquidity. But would restricting the proprietary
trading of megabanks really have significant -- or any --
negative effects? Without question, the industry is solidly on
his side, but it likes the existing subsidy structure. Why would
we want to bet the house again on this industry’s special
interest now being miraculously aligned with our broader social
interest?  I’m going with the Admati, DeMarzo, Hellwig and Pfleiderer
work on capital requirements and the analysis by Better Markets
on the Volcker rule. Regulators would do well to push back hard
against the financial-sector lobby as it seeks to undermine or
undo a key component of the Dodd-Frank reforms.  ( Simon Johnson , who served as chief economist at the
 International Monetary Fund  in 2007 and 2008 and is now a
professor at the  MIT Sloan School of Management  as well as a
senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International
Economics, is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Simon Johnson at  sjohnson@mit.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Paula Dwyer  at  pdwyer11@bloomberg.net  