-- Misys Draws Rival Acquisition Offer to Temenos From Vista Equity Partners
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2012-02-20T18:17:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/misys-gets-rival-takeover-offer-from-vista-shares-advance.html
Misys Plc (MSY) , the financial-software
maker that agreed to merge with Swiss competitor  Temenos Group
AG (TEMN) , rose as much as 12 percent in London trading after drawing a
rival bid from Vista Equity Partners.  Misys received a non-binding proposal from Vista to acquire
all outstanding shares in cash, the company said in a statement
today. Misys, based in London, had attracted interest from
buyout firms and would consider alternatives to the Temenos
deal, two people familiar with the matter said on Feb. 14.  A Vista bid would threaten Misys’s tie-up with Geneva-based
Temenos, a deal set to create the largest vendor of banking
software in the world. Misys agreed to the transaction this
month, which would give its  shareholders  about 54 percent of the
combined company. Vista may put forward an indicative 1.2
billion-pound ($1.9 billion) bid, or 360 pence a share, the
Financial Times reported today, citing people close to the deal.  “If I were a Misys shareholder, they’re on balance going
to savor a knock out cash bid,” said Milan Radia, an analyst at
Jefferies International Ltd., in  London . “If you’re getting
close to 4 pounds despite the market getting worse then that
probably does the job.”  Vista, based in  San Francisco , said in a separate statement
today that a potential offer will depend on the completion of
due diligence and a recommendation from Misys’ board of
directors.  Misys rose 20.5 pence, or 6.6 percent, to 330.1 pence in
London. Temenos dropped 0.3 percent to 17.9 Swiss francs on the
Zurich exchange.  Banking Regulations  A spokeswoman for Temenos declined to comment. Vista has
until March 19 to declare interest in Misys, according to
today’s statement.  Companies that sell financial software for businesses are
proving attractive to private-equity firms as mounting banking
regulations increase demand for up-to-date systems. In August
 Bain Capital  agreed to buy a majority stake in MYOB Pty Ltd., an
Australian provider of  business software  that had also attracted
a bid from Sage Group Plc.  Misys makes software for cash, wealth and risk management
as well as for syndicated lending, over-the-counter derivatives
trading and post-trade processing. It has more than 1,300
banking customers. Temenos’s products include software for data
management and payments, according to its website.  Failed Fidelity Talks  ValueAct Capital, Misys’s largest shareholder, previously
indicated its “strong support” for the merger, Misys said Feb.
8.  Sales at Temenos advanced 16 percent to $225.6 million in
the six months ended June 30, while revenue at Misys, boosted by
an acquisition, increased 22 percent to 197 million pounds in
the half year ended Nov. 30.  Under the terms of the Temenos merger, the Swiss company’s
shareholders would receive 4.1 Misys shares for every Temenos
share they hold.  Six months ago, Misys’s talks to sell itself to Fidelity
National Information Services Inc. collapsed after the two
failed to agree on price, a person with knowledge of the matter
said then.  U.K. deals tend not to include breakup fees, typically
included in U.S. transactions, meaning a company that terminates
a deal to pursue a more convenient opportunity doesn’t
necessarily incur extra costs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Browning  in London at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  