-- Italy’s Economic Overhaul Marked by Women Wrestling Over Labor
-- B y   A l e s s a n d r a   M i g l i a c c i o   a n d   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2012-02-20T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/italy-s-economic-overhaul-marked-by-three-women-wrestling-over-labor-laws.html
In a country that for almost a
decade was led by a man who publicly referred to his passion for
female conquests,  Italy  is now relying on three women to help
overcome the European debt crisis.  Less than four months after the resignation of  Silvio Berlusconi , the former prime minister known for his “Bunga
Bunga” parties, new Italian Labor Minister Elsa Fornero is
mediating between  Emma Marcegaglia , head of the employers’
lobby, and Susanna Camusso, leader of the biggest union.  At stake are changes to labor laws to make it easier to
hire and fire, a highly-charged issue in Italy, where previous
attempts at an overhaul have been marred by protests, violence
and even murder. The reforms aim to bring down a decade-high
jobless rate of 8.9 percent and are central to Prime Minister
 Mario Monti 's efforts to convince investors he can revive Italy’s
economy and trim its 1.9 trillion-euro ($2.5 trillion) debt.  “The country needs to persuade markets that it is making
changes and these three women are right on the front lines,”
Alberto Mingardi, an economist and head of the pro-free market
Bruno Leoni research center in Turin, said in an interview. “If
Italy is the key to making or breaking  Europe , then this reform
needs to be watched carefully.”  Firing Rules  The fact that three women are driving the debate is unusual
in a country that ranks 74th of 135 in the  World Economic
Forum ’s 2011  Gender Gap Index , trailing Malawi and  Kazakhstan .  Talks between them resumed yesterday, with negotiations
focused on the revamp of  unemployment benefits  and training
programs. They will continue on Feb. 23, Marcegaglia said
yesterday. The thornier issue of easing firing rules will be
left for the final stage in early March.  An academic, a union stalwart and the daughter of a steel
magnate, the three come from diverse backgrounds, and it may not
be easy to forge a labor agreement. Monti said yesterday that
his government would pass the legislation by the end of March
even without the backing of unions.  The fact that we are women “doesn’t necessarily change
anything” in our relationship, Camusso said in a Feb. 10 e-
mailed response to questions. “Our experiences are all very
concretely rooted into our respective roles as we represent
precise and usually conflicting interests.”  Professor  Fornero, 63, is an economics professor at the University of
Turin and a former vice president of the supervisory board at
Intesa Sanpaolo SpA, Italy’s second-biggest bank. When she
accepted the additional portfolio of equal opportunity minister,
Fornero succeeded Mara Carfagna.  A lawyer, Carfagna, was better known for posing topless and
being a Miss Italy contestant. Berlusconi publicly said that he
would marry her immediately if he wasn’t already committed,
prompting a public scolding from his now ex-wife Veronica Lario.  Fornero declined to be interviewed for this story,
according to her office. At a conference last week, Fornero said
it was “no accident” that the heads of the biggest union, the
business lobby and labor policy were all women.  Camusso, 56, is the first woman to lead the 6 million-
member CGIL union. The chain-smoking leader started her career
in 1977 as representative for metalworkers.  Her rival, Marcegaglia, 46, is a staunch supporter of
reforms aimed at boosting competition as head of Italy’s most
influential business lobby and her family’s steel company.  End of Berlusconi  Berlusconi once introduced Marcegaglia as a “good-looking
chick” at a conference in  Rome  in February 2011. She told
reporters that she didn’t mind being called attractive as long
as the government pushed ahead with economic reforms. When
change didn’t come, she voiced her opposition eventually calling
for Berlusconi’s resignation.  Monti, 68, whose government of non politicians took over
from Berlusconi, 75, in November, has repeatedly said that
easing firing rules can no longer be “taboo” and pledged to
push through changes.  The sticking point is whether to modify Article 18 of the
labor code, the part that bans firing without just cause and
forces employers to rehire and compensate workers deemed to be
unjustly released. Employers, led by Marcegaglia, say it makes
them reluctant to hire because it becomes almost impossible to
cut staff during tough economic times, while Camusso refers to
the measure as “a norm of civilization.”  Advisers Assassinated  Berlusconi also tried to overhaul the law in 2002, backing
down after millions protested across the country.  The demonstration came four days after  Marco Biagi , an
adviser to the government on labor law, was gunned down outside
his home in Bologna. The killing was claimed by the New Red
Brigades, which took their name from the terrorist group in the
1970s. The murder of Biagi followed the 1999 slaying of another
labor law consultant, Massimo D’Antona, by the same group.  Their killers were apprehended in 2003 and police say they
have wiped out the remnants of the Red Brigades. Still, concerns
about violence remain after envelopes containing bullets
addressed to Fornero, union leaders and Marcegaglia were
intercepted by the postal service last month.  Article 18 was implemented 40 years ago, and critics say it
has led to a two-tier job market where older workers can’t be
fired and employers increasingly resort to temporary contractors
when taking on new workers. More young people are excluded from
the market, with joblessness among them topping 30 percent,
almost four times the main rate.  Romano Prodi, the former Italian prime minister and
European Commission president, said that having the three women
leading the talks might yield an agreement.  Because women “generally have more common sense,” he said
in an interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alessandra Migliaccio in Rome at 
 amigliaccio@bloomberg.net 
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net 
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net ; 