-- Mitsubishi Rises After Buying Stake in Canadian Gas Field: Tokyo Mover
-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 2012-02-20T07:14:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/mitsubishi-shares-rise-as-canada-gas-purchase-boosts-reserves-tokyo-mover.html
Mitsubishi Corp. (8058) ,  Japan ’s biggest
commodity supplier, rose the most in four months in Tokyo
trading after buying a stake in a Canadian gas field that may
hold enough fuel to sustain  Asia ’s No. 2 economy for 37 years.  The shares jumped 4.8 percent, the largest gain since Oct.
27, to close at 1,970 yen. The benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock
Average increased 1.1 percent.  Mitsubishi agreed to pay  Encana Corp. (ECA)  C$1.45 billion ($1.46
billion) for 40 percent of Cutbank Ridge, the Japanese company’s
second shale gas asset in  Canada , and will further invest the
same amount over five years to develop the area. The field
covers 409,000 net acres of the undeveloped Montney shale
formation, and is estimated to hold 130 trillion cubic feet of
gas resources, Calgary-based Encana said Feb. 17.  “With the acquisition of additional natural gas resources,
Mitsubishi will accelerate LNG studies” to allow the export of
the fuel to Asia, the Tokyo-based company said in a statement.  Mitsubishi is already developing the Cordova Embayment
project in British Columbia, leading the first shale gas project
by Japanese gas and power utilities in Canada.  Korea Gas Corp. (036460) 
in June joined the project, operated by Penn West Petroleum Ltd.  Cordova Embayment and Cutbank Ridge, which straddles the
provinces of British Columbia and Alberta, can provide feedstock
for Mitsubishi’s ambition to export liquefied natural gas to
Japan and other Asian nations, the company said. Mitsubishi
plans to have a liquefaction plant and export terminal ready for
export to Asia from 2018, the Nikkei said Jan. 18, without
saying where it got the information.  Japan, which relies on overseas gas for almost all of its
needs in the fuel, imported 99 billion cubic meters, or 3.5
trillion cubic feet, in 2010, according to the International
Energy Agency.  Cutbank Ridge  The total “recoverable” resources from Cutbank Ridge
exceed 35 trillion cubic feet, according to Mitsubishi. Daily
output can reach 3 billion cubic feet in the next decade, and
the project can produce gas for more than 50 years, it said.  Securing investment from Mitsubishi eight months after
 PetroChina Co. (857)  walked away from the deal allows Encana to fund
development of the 635,000 net acres in British Columbia and
Alberta. The Canadian company announced $3.5 billion in asset
sales last year and started to look for partners to share costs
after gas prices in  North America  declined.  The Mitsubishi transaction is expected to close this week,
Encana Chief Executive Officer Randy Eresman said on a
conference call Feb. 17.  Barclays Capital  is acting as Mitsubishi’s financial
adviser on the deal, while Bennett Jones LLP is providing legal
advice.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net . 