-- Japan’s Trade Deficit Widens to a Record as Export Slump Deepens: Economy
-- B y   A n d y   S h a r p
-- 2012-02-20T03:15:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/japan-s-trade-deficit-widens-to-a-record-as-exports-slump-for-fourth-month.html
Japan  posted a record trade deficit
in January as the yen’s strength and weaker global demand eroded
manufacturers’ profits and slowed the nation’s recovery from
last year’s earthquake and tsunami.  The gap widened to 1.48 trillion yen ($19 billion) and
shipments  dropped  9.3 percent from a year earlier as energy
imports surged, a Ministry of Finance reported in Tokyo today.
The median estimate of 28 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
was for a shortfall of 1.46 trillion yen.  The drag from trade risks countering the boost from
reconstruction work that JPMorgan Securities forecasts will
drive a return to growth this quarter after the economy shrank
in the final three months of last year. The government is seeing
progress in its campaign to rein in the yen, with the  currency
trading  at the weakest in seven months against the dollar after
the  Bank of Japan  last week announced extra monetary stimulus.  “The recovery pace may be slow,” said  Kiichi Murashima ,
chief economist at Citigroup Global Markets Japan Inc. in Tokyo.
“That’s because a recovery in exports may be dull and
reconstruction demand may not come out as strongly as some
people expect.”  The yen traded at 79.48 per dollar as of 12:12 p.m. in
Tokyo, from 79.83 before the report. Japan sold a record 8.07
trillion yen on Oct. 31 after the currency reached a postwar
high of 75.35 against the  U.S. dollar . The Nikkei 225 Stock
Average climbed 1.4 percent.  Contraction in Thailand  Asian stocks also advanced after  China  cut banks’ reserve
requirements to fuel lending and buoy economic growth, boosting
demand for riskier assets. The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  rose 1.1
percent to 128.31 as of 11:57 a.m. in Tokyo.  Elsewhere in  Asia , a report today showed  Thailand ’s economy
shrank 9 percent in the fourth quarter compared with the year
earlier on the worst floods in almost 70 years. In  New Zealand ,
producer input prices gained 0.5 percent in the same period from
the three months through September, the smallest increase since
the fourth quarter of 2009,  Statistics New Zealand  said in
Wellington.  Japan’s trade figures may have been skewed by a Lunar New
Year holiday falling in January instead of February this year,
reducing business days in Asian markets.  Sony Corp., which gets 21 percent of its revenue from
 Europe , widened its loss forecast to 220 billion yen on Feb. 2.
Besides the yen, it also cited cuts to production because of the
flooding in Thailand, and the cost of exiting a venture with
Samsung Electronics Co. for what will be its fourth annual loss
in a row.  China, European Union  Shipments to China , Japan’s largest market, fell 20 percent
from a year earlier, the biggest decline since Aug. 2009.
Exports to European Union slid 7.7 percent and shipments to the
U.S. advanced 0.6 percent.  Japan’s GDP contracted an annualized 2.3 percent last
quarter. Net exports, or overseas shipments less imports,
subtracted 2.6 percentage points from this figure, the
government said in a report last week.  In other parts of the world,  France  may say an index of
business confidence was little changed in February compared with
January, when it fell to the lowest in almost two years,
according to a Bloomberg survey of economists. A separate index
on the outlook for production probably stayed negative for a
seventh month, economists predict.  Italy’s industrial orders rose 0.4 percent in December from
November, economists surveyed by Bloomberg said ahead of a
report from the Italian statistics institute.  Markets are closed in the U.S. for the Presidents’ Day
holiday.  Current Account  In Japan, the country’s trade deficit of 2.49 trillion yen
in 2011 was the second largest since World War II. That also
contributed to the nation’s current-account surplus sliding to a
15-year low in 2011.  March’s earthquake and tsunami led to the idling of nuclear
plants and a surge in energy imports that contributed to the
arrears. Japan’s liquefied natural gas imports rose 12.2 percent
to a record in 2011 as power utilities increased thermal power
generation by 12.6 percent from the previous year between April
and September. Energy needs accounted for most of the gain in
imports in January.  “The deficit is still expanding against a background of
increasing energy imports.” said Masaaki Kanno, chief Japan
economist at  JPMorgan (JPM)  Chase & Co. in Tokyo and a former BOJ
official. “Unless we see a significant increase in the
operating rate of nuclear  power plants , eventually the rising
cost of power will be translated to the corporations. This is
likely to accelerate the pace of shifting production abroad.”  Temporary Factors  BOJ Governor Masaaki Shirakawa said last month the trade
deficit “won’t become a firmly established trend” because it
is driven by “temporary factors.”  Shirakawa’s board on Feb. 14 unexpectedly expanded an
asset-purchase program to 65 trillion yen from 55 trillion yen,
and set a price stability goal of 1 percent inflation.  “Clearly Japanese manufacturers are struggling,”  Hiroshi
Shiraishi , an economist at BNP Paribas SA in  Tokyo , said before
the report. “We aren’t really expecting a major pick-up in
external demand because the U.S. and Europe are undergoing
balance sheet adjustments.”  The euro area’s economy contracted in the fourth quarter
for the first time in 2 1/2 years. Europe’s woes were again
highlighted Feb. 13 when Moody’s Investors Service cut the
ratings of six European countries including Italy, Spain and
 Portugal .  European Exports  Japan’s exports to the EU, its third-largest export region,
fell 39 percent from 2007 to last year, according to Ministry of
Finance figures.  The competitiveness of South Korean companies against
Japanese has been enhanced as the yen rose 7.8 percent against
the won in the past 12 months.  Elpida Memory Inc. (6665) , Japan’s biggest maker of dynamic random
access memory and supplier to Apple Inc., said last week it has
been unable to secure financing from the government and is
“uncertain” whether it can stay in business.  South Korea ’s Samsung Electronics, which has the largest
share of the global DRAM market, had 7.34 trillion won ($6.5
billion) in operating profit from selling chips last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Sharp in Tokyo at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  