-- Japan’s AA- Credit Rating May be Cut if Economic Outlook Weakens, S&P Says
-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 2012-02-20T08:37:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/japan-s-aa-credit-rating-may-be-cut-if-economic-outlook-weakens-s-p-says.html
Standard and Poor’s affirmed  Japan ’s
sovereign-debt rating at AA- while maintaining a negative
outlook and warning that a downgrade is likely if medium-term
growth prospects weaken.  The ranking is supported by an “ample net external asset
position, relatively strong financial system, and diversified
economy,” S&P said in a statement today, also citing the yen’s 
role as a “key international reserve currency.” S&P has cut the 
ratings of European nations including France and  Italy  this 
year, along with reducing both the U.S. and Japan last year.  Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  is struggling to tame the
world’s biggest public debt burden while supporting an economy
that was hurt by last year’s earthquake and tsunami and shrank
an annualized 2.3 percent in the fourth quarter. He’s yet to
secure lawmakers’ support for a  sales-tax  increase intended to
put the nation on a stronger financial footing.  “S&P’s rating decision will be put off further into the
future, possibly until it will see whether the nation’s
consumption tax bill will gain support at the parliament or
not,” said  Soichi Okuda , chief economist at Sumitomo Shoji
Research Institute in Tokyo.  Moody’s Investors Service cut Japan by one step to Aa3 on
Aug. 24, citing “the build-up in Japanese government debt since
the 2009 global recession.”  Fitch Ratings  has the nation at AA-
with a negative outlook.  Bond Yields  So far, reductions in Japan’s rating haven’t led to a drop
in bond prices. The benchmark 10-year government bond yield was
at 0.945 percent as of 5:29 p.m. in  Tokyo , the second lowest in
the world after  Switzerland .  In the U.S., Treasuries returned 9.8 percent in 2011, the
most in three years, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
data. Bonds rallied even as S&P stripped the U.S. of its AAA
rating in August. Benchmark 10-year yields were 2 percent at the
end of last week, versus the record low of 1.67 percent set
Sept. 23 and the 10-year average of 3.89 percent.  The negative outlook for Japan means a more than one-third
chance of the nation being downgraded by S&P within two years,
 Takahira Ogawa , director of sovereign ratings in  Singapore , said
in a teleconference today.  A report today showed a record trade deficit in January as
fuel imports surged because of nuclear shutdowns, and yen
strength and weakness in global demand capped exports.  Standard & Poor’s  has had Japan’s debt rating on a negative
outlook since April after lowering it to AA- in January 2011.  Growth Projection  A downgrade is likely if medium-term growth falls from a
current projection of 1.2 percent in real terms per capita, the
ratings company said today. “We would also consider lowering
the long- and short-term ratings if the government’s debt
trajectory remains on its current course or begins to erode the
nation’s external position,” it said.  The ruling  Democratic Party  of Japan has proposed raising
the 5 percent consumption tax to 8 percent in April 2014 and 10
percent in October 2015 to help pay for soaring welfare costs as
the population ages. Lawmakers opposing the increase have said
it may hamper the recovery from last year’s disaster.  Even if the proposed increase in the  consumption tax  is
implemented, structural problems like a “mismatch between the
social security system and an aging population and current low
macroeconomic growth” will remain in the Japanese economy, S&P
said. Social-security expenses have more than doubled over the
past two decades and will account for 52 percent of general
spending in the year starting April, Finance Ministry data show.  “No matter how high the sales tax is raised, there’s no
point unless the government does something with the social-
welfare system,” S&P’s Ogawa said in an interview last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  