-- Jeremy Lin Says ESPN’s Offensive References Weren’t Intentional
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-02-20T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/jeremy-lin-says-espn-s-offensive-references-weren-t-intentional.html
Jeremy Lin of the  New York Knicks 
said he doesn’t think the “offensive and inappropriate”
comments made about him on ESPN were intentional.  The  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  network issued an apology yesterday and
fired an employee responsible for a headline on the ESPN mobile
site that used a phrase that could be construed as a racial slur.
It also suspended ESPNews anchor Max Bretos for 30 days for
using a similar comment while discussing Lin, who is the first
Taiwanese- or Chinese-American to play in the  National
Basketball Association .  “I don’t think it was on purpose or whatever, but they
have apologized and so from my end I don’t care anymore,” Lin
said in a televised interview after leading the Knicks to a 104-
97 win over  Dallas  yesterday. “Have to learn to forgive and I
don’t even think that was intentional. Or hopefully not.”  ESPN apologized to Lin and said in a  statement  yesterday
that his accomplishments are a “source of great pride to the
Asian-American community, including the Asian-American employees
at ESPN.”  The network said the headline, which appeared early
yesterday after the Knicks’ 89-85 loss to the  New Orleans
Hornets , was removed 35 minutes after it was posted.  While Bretos was suspended for one month for his comment
about Lin, ESPN said no action was taken for a similar reference
made Feb. 18 on ESPN Radio in New York because the commentator
wasn’t an ESPN employee. ESPN described the comments as
“offensive and inappropriate” in its statement.  Lin, a 23-year-old Harvard University graduate, was cut by
two NBA teams before joining the Knicks in late December. He’s
helped  New York  to a 7-1 record since becoming the starting
point guard and had 28 points and a career-high 14 assists in
yesterday’s win over the defending champion Dallas Mavericks.  Lin has averaged 25 points and 9.5 assists since taking
over as a starter, making him a team leader and an international
sensation. He’s also helped the Knicks even their record at 16-
16 on the season.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  