-- Kingfisher Air Cuts Flights After India Tax Office Freezes Bank Accounts
-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m   a n d   M a l a v i k a   S h a r m a
-- 2012-02-20T13:56:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/kingfisher-air-cuts-flights-after-india-tax-office-freezes-bank-accounts.html
Kingfisher Airlines Ltd. (KAIR) , the Indian
carrier seeking new funds after losses, cut flights after the
tax office froze the company’s bank accounts affecting the
airline’s ability to make payments.  “The prime reason for the current disruption in our flight
schedules is the sudden attachment of our bank accounts by the”
income tax department, the Bangalore-based company said in an e-
mailed statement today. The carrier, controlled by billionaire
Vijay Mallya, said it’s in talks with tax authorities to agree
on a payment plan and “get the bank accounts unfrozen at the
earliest.”  Kingfisher, which Feb. 18 said it cut about 13 percent of
flights after bird strikes and other “unexpected events”
forced airplanes out of service, said it will submit to  India ’s
aviation regulator tomorrow a plan to restore the full schedule.
The groundings following damage to engines after they sucked in
birds may also reflect a shortage of  power plants  cited by the
regulator last month.  “If you’ve got a spare engine that’s a one-to-two day
problem,” said Neil Hansford, chairman of Strategic Aviation
Solutions, an adviser to airlines based in Port Stephens,
 Australia . Cutting flights may also cause costs as the carrier
will have to find other flights for passengers or refund them,
he said.  As many as 32 daily flights were canceled starting Feb. 17,
Kingfisher said Feb. 18. The carrier plans to resume its full
schedule of 240 flights a day this week, it said at the time.  Full Refund  “About 15 percent of our flights operating consistently
for the past 3 months have been canceled and we have done and
are doing our best to inform guests in advance,” it said today,
without elaborating. Kingfisher offered a full refund.  Kingfisher Feb. 18 denied closing any operations
permanently in a bid to reassure customers about its viability
after posting more than 10 straight quarterly  losses , having
accounts frozen by authorities and cutting flights last year.  The airline has  plunged  39 percent in the past 12 months in
Mumbai trading. It dropped 1.3 percent to 26.65 rupees on Feb.
17. Markets are closed today because of a holiday. The
Directorate General of Civil Aviation has summoned Sanjay Aggarwal, the airline’s chief executive officer, to explain
tomorrow the reasons for the cancellations, the  Press Trust of
India  reported earlier. The carrier had not informed the
regulator about cutting flights, the  news agency  cited Director
General E.K. Bharat Bhushan as having said.  Three calls by Bloomberg News to Bhushan’s office and
mobile phone today, a national holiday, weren’t answered.  Kingfisher said it had kept the regulator informed of the
disruptions and would provide all details tomorrow.  New Investor  Kingfisher,  Jet Airways (India) Ltd., (JETIN)  the nation’s biggest
carrier, and discount airline  SpiceJet Ltd. (SJET)  all posted third-
quarter losses as higher  jet fuel  costs and price wars eroded
gains from rising travel. Kingfisher’s loss in the quarter ended
Dec. 31 widened to 4.44 billion rupees ($90 million) from 2.54
billion rupees.  The airline is seeking new investment as it struggles under
$1.3 billion of  debt . Kingfisher has also met with banks and
requested additional working capital. The carrier hasn’t asked
the government for any “bail out,” it said today.  Brand, Office Furniture  “New investors in Kingfisher haven’t yet materialized,”
said Binit Somaia, a Sydney-based director at CAPA Centre for
Aviation, an industry consultant. “A serious investor would
only enter after having carefully understood the risks
associated with the transaction.”  The airline, which fell to fifth in the Indian market in
December from second in October, has grounded 12 of its existing
27 Avions de Transport Regional planes and delayed  Airbus (EAD)  SAS
A380 deliveries beyond 2016. ATR, a maker of turboprop aircraft,
said last month it canceled a 38-plane order from Kingfisher
after the carrier missed payments.  The airline has pledged its brand, office furniture and
other assets against a debt of about $1.3 billion. Kingfisher
said Jan. 19 it’s in talks with potential investors including SC
Lowy Financial Services.  India may soon let airlines import jet kerosene directly to
save on local sales taxes as high as 30 percent, the Civil
Aviation Ministry said in a Feb. 16 statement.  In November, chiefs of Indian carriers met Prime Minister
 Manmohan Singh  as they sought government assistance to stem
industry losses. The nation’s airlines will probably lose $2.5
billion in the year ending March, according to CAPA.  Kingfisher had a fleet of 64 planes ranging from ATR
turboprops to Airbus A330s as of Dec. 31, according to a Feb. 15
company statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in  New Delhi  at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net ;
Malavika Sharma in New Delhi at 
 msharma52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  