-- Korean Won Gains, Bonds Fall on China Monetary Easing, Greek Aid Optimism
-- B y   J i y e u n   L e e
-- 2012-02-20T06:34:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/korean-won-gains-bonds-fall-on-china-monetary-easing-greek-aid-optimism.html
South Korea ’s won rose to a one-week
high and government bonds fell after China cut banks’ reserve
requirements to support growth in Asia’s biggest economy,
spurring demand for higher-yielding assets.  The proportion of cash that lenders must set aside will
fall half a percentage point from Feb. 24, the People’s Bank of
China said on its website over the weekend. The won was also
supported by optimism that  Europe ’s finance ministers will agree
to a second bailout for  Greece  when they meet today. South Korea
held live-fire naval drills from around 10 a.m. today for about
two hours despite North Korea’s threat of retaliation.  “Optimism about Greece receiving aid and  China ’s reserve-
requirements cut is supporting risk appetite, but investors may
refrain from taking strong positions ahead of a big European
event,” said Byeon Ji Young, a currency analyst at Woori
Futures Co. in Seoul.  The won rose for a second day, strengthening 0.2 percent to
1,123.40 per dollar at its close in Seoul, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. It touched 1,120.48 earlier, the
strongest since Feb. 10. The won’s gains were limited by
geopolitical risks on the Korean peninsula, which discouraged
investors from selling dollars aggressively, according to Ryoo Hyun Jung, a Seoul-based chief currency dealer at Citibank Inc.  The  Kospi (KOSPI)  Index of shares gained less than 0.1 percent as
overseas investors bought more of the nation’s shares than they
sold today, building on net purchases of $8.2 billion this year
through Feb. 17.  The yield on South Korea’s 3.25 percent bonds due December
2014 climbed three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to
3.48 percent, Korea Exchange Inc. prices show. That’s the
highest rate since the note began trading in December. Three-
year futures declined 0.07 percent to 104.12. The one-year
interest-swap rate was little changed at 3.49 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jiyeun Lee in  Seoul  at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Harvey at 
 sharvey6@bloomberg.net  