-- Murdoch’s News Corp. to Start Sunday Edition of Sun Tabloid This Weekend
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n   a n d   B l a n c h e   G a t t
-- 2012-02-20T13:03:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/news-international-to-start-the-sun-on-sunday-on-feb-26.html
Rupert Murdoch ’s News Corp. will
begin a Sunday edition of British tabloid the Sun this weekend,
seven months after shutting another Sunday newspaper rocked by a
phone-hacking scandal.  News International, the company’s U.K. publishing arm,
plans to publish the Sun on Sunday on Feb. 26, spokeswoman  Daisy Dunlop  said by telephone. The Sun’s editor, Dominic Mohan, will
also be in charge of the Sunday edition.  Murdoch’s announcement may soothe anger in the newsroom
after the company’s Management and Standards Committee, formed
by News Corp. to assist police in their investigations of phone-
hacking and bribery, handed over information to police. It may
also spark more clashes with U.K. politicians, with Murdoch
announcing the decision before legislators publish a report into
why  News Corp. (NWSA)  executives didn’t stop illegal activities.  “The Sun’s future can now be reshaped as a unique, seven-
day proposition in both print and digital,” Mohan said in a
 statement  in the Sun today. “Our readers’ reaction to the
announcement of a seventh-day Sun has been huge and we won’t let
them down.”  News Corp. has “made clear its determination to sort out
what has gone wrong in the past and we are fundamentally
changing how we operate as a business,” News International
Chief Executive Officer  Tom Mockridge  said in an e-mail to
employees yesterday. Murdoch will stay in London to oversee the
start of the Sunday newspaper, Mockridge said.  ‘Unwavering Support’  During a visit to the Sun’s newsroom on Feb. 17, Murdoch,
News Corp.’s chairman and CEO, said he will stay in  London  for
several weeks to give his staff “unwavering support.” He spent
two hours talking to journalists on the newsroom floor with son
Lachlan, said a person familiar with the matter. James Murdoch,
the former CEO of News International and now deputy chief
operating officer of New York-based News Corp., didn’t fly to
London because he had other commitments, the person said.  The News of the World was the best-selling Sunday paper in
Britain when it was closed last July and its readers have
dispersed to competing tabloids or stopped buying Sunday papers
altogether. Its circulation reached 2.66 million in May 2011,
more than twice its closest competitor in the national Sunday
market, the Sunday Mirror, according to media researcher ABC.  The Sun had an 8.7 percent lift in circulation in January
as News Corp. sold an average of 2.75 million issues of the
tabloid a day, up from 2.53 million a month earlier. Overall
daily newspaper sales rose 3 percent, according to the report.  Ethics  The Sun, whose coverage includes celebrity news and soccer,
is still selling fewer copies than a year ago as the industry
grapples with readership and advertising declines.  Maurice Levy , CEO of the world’s third-biggest advertising
company Publicis Groupe SA, said last year that News Corp. may
quickly regain advertisers if the company creates “a new News
of the World with much more ethical behavior.”  The closing of the News of the World was “just cynical,”
said  Chris Bryant , a lawmaker from the opposition  Labour Party ,
who had sued the News of the World over phone-hacking. Tom Watson , the lawmaker who is helping prepare the report into News
Corp. executives, said “this will not draw a line under the
crisis faced by News Corp. in the U.K.”  Lawmaker Probe  Following the News of the World’s closure, Murdoch and his
son James had to appear before Parliament to explain how much
they knew.  In his testimony on July 19, Rupert Murdoch told lawmakers
that this is “the most humble day of my life.” He added that
he may have “lost sight” of the paper because it was “so
small in the general frame of the company.”  The police investigation ultimately widened beyond the News
of the World to News Corp.’s other U.K. titles including the Sun
and the Times.  The U.K. lawmakers probing whether News Corp. covered up
phone hacking are at least two months behind schedule with their
report, as they debate how critical they can be of  James Murdoch , two people with knowledge of the panel’s discussions
said last week.  Calling on employees to “seize the opportunity to pull
together and deliver a great new dawn for the Sun on Sunday,”
Mockridge said the “commitment of News Corporation to invest in
a new edition is the strongest possible message of support we
could wish for.”  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net ;
Blanche Gatt in London at 
 bgatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  