-- Nigeria’s Naira Advances to Three-Month High on Dollar Sales
-- B y   E m e l e   O n u
-- 2012-02-20T16:18:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/nigeria-s-naira-advances-to-three-month-high-on-dollar-supplies.html
The naira gained to the strongest
level in more than three months as central bank sold dollars at
an auction and on speculation Nigeria’s currency may appreciate
further.  The currency of  Africa ’s biggest oil producer appreciated
as much as 0.6 percent to 156.57 against the dollar, the highest
since November, before trading less than 0.1 percent stronger
at 157.53 per dollar as of 4:40 p.m. in Lagos, the commercial
capital. The naira has climbed 3 percent this year, the fourth-
biggest gain among 22 currencies in Africa tracked by Bloomberg.  “ Oil companies  were initially supplying dollars only at
the end of the month but this has changed due possibly to fear
of losses as dollar demand whittles down,” a development that
continues to strengthen the naira against the U.S. currency,
Edgar Ebinum, analyst at Lagos-based Cowry Asset Management
Ltd., said in e-mailed response to questions. “The naira will
remain strong against the dollar on continued dollar inflows
from the oil industry.”  Nigeria  sold $145.3 million at a foreign-currency auction
today, less than $250 million on offer, the Abuja-based  Central
Bank of Nigeria  said in an e-mailed statement. The marginal
rate, which is also used as the prevailing exchange rate
strengthened 0.3 percent 156.10 naira, compared with 156.40
naira, at the previous sale on Feb. 15.  The Central Bank of Nigeria offers dollars at twice-weekly
auctions and interbank trading to maintain exchange rate
stability. The oil industry is the second major source of dollar
supplies in the country after the central bank, which will hold
its next auction on Feb. 22.  Reserves Climb  Nigeria’s foreign-exchange reserves have increased 6.1
percent this year to $34.9 billion as of Feb. 16, according  data 
compiled by Bloomberg. Oil has advanced 6.2 percent so far this
year. The annual  inflation  rate rose to 12.6 percent in January
from 10.3 percent a month earlier, the National Bureau of
Statistics said in an e-mailed  statement  today.  “Persistent dollar inflows into the  interbank market 
continue to support a downward trend in the dollar against the
naira,” Celeste Fauconnier and Nema Ramkhelawan-Bhana, Africa
analysts at Rand Merchant Bank in Johannesburg, wrote in an e-
mailed note today.  Ghana ’s cedi appreciated for the third straight day, up 0.2
percent to 1.7003 per dollar as of 3:40 p.m. in Accra, the
capital.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emele Onu in Lagos at 
 eonu1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dulue Mbachu at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net  