-- Nigerian Finance Minister Says Attacks Don’t Deter Investors
-- B y   L e i g h   B a l d w i n   a n d   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2012-02-20T13:45:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/nigeria-terrorism-fails-to-dent-investment-okonjo-iweala-says.html
Nigerian Finance Minister Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala said increased terror attacks in the country have
failed to deter foreign investment as  Africa ’s largest oil
producer presses ahead with plans to sell power companies and
keep spending under control.  General Electric Co. (GE)  Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Immelt 
visited Nigeria for the first time last week, pledging to invest
in power, health and rail industries, including a locomotive
assembly plant, Okonjo-Iweala, 57, said in an interview in
Zurich on Feb. 17. San Francisco-based Del Monte Foods Co. is
also considering investing, she said.  Nigeria is facing an insurgency in the north by an Islamist
group known as Boko Haram that’s claimed responsibility for
killing hundreds of people in bombings and shootings since 2009.
President Goodluck Jonathan has pledged to invest in power
plants and roads to boost economic growth.  At the  World Economic Forum  in Davos “what CEOs were
asking was: Do you have a strategy?” Okonjo-Iweala said.
Investors “realize that the terrorism is just focused in one
part of the country and as long as they feel we have an approach
to deal with it, they are more or less comforted,” she said.  The West African nation is getting help from the U.S., U.K.
and  France  to ramp up security and fight terrorism, she said.
Jonathan is willing to hold talks with Boko Haram and is working
with state administrations in the north to create jobs and
improve education and health, Okonjo-Iweala said.  Christmas Day Attacks  Boko Haram, which seeks to impose Islamic religious rule in
the north, claimed responsibility for the Jan. 20 coordinated
blasts that killed at least 256 people in Kano, the biggest city
in northern Nigeria, according to Civil Rights Congress. It also
bombed a church near Abuja, the capital, on Christmas Day,
killing 43 people, and is responsible for the Aug. 26 suicide
bombing of the United Nations building that left 24 dead.  A roadside explosion outside a church yesterday in Suleja,
about 50 kilometers north of Abuja, injured at least five
people. Police are investigating and no group has claimed
responsibility yet, said Richard Oguche, a spokesman for the
police in Suleja.  Nigeria is the fifth-biggest source of U.S. oil imports.
 Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Chevron Corp. (CVX) , Total
SA and  Eni SpA (ENI)  operate joint ventures with the state-owned
Nigerian National Petroleum Corp. that pump about 90 percent of
the country’s crude. Oil accounts for more than 80 percent of
government revenue and 95 percent of foreign-currency income.  Naira Currency  The naira gained for a fourth day, advancing less than 0.1
percent to 157.5150 per dollar on the  interbank market  as of
2:42 p.m. in Lagos, the commercial capital, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Europe ’s first recession in three years and a slowdown in
global demand are putting pressure on Nigeria to make its power
industry more efficient and cut corruption, Okonjo-Iweala said.  “What will make reforms succeed is that Nigerians are
realizing the world has become very uncertain,” she said. “The
emerging realization that the world is not what it used to be is
giving us more impetus and support.”  Jonathan, who partially scrapped a fuel subsidy last month,
wants to sell six  power plants  and 70 percent stakes in 11
power-distribution companies to end a state monopoly. The
government plans to boost electricity prices by 25 percent to 88
percent for high-income households by April to help attract
investors, Power Minister Bart Nnaji said Feb. 12  Power, Corruption  Blackouts are a daily occurrence in Africa’s most-populous
country of more than 160 million people, where demand for
electricity is double the current supply.  “There has been corruption,” said Okonjo-Iweala. “People
will be supportive of anything we can do in the power sector to
disband the power authority because it has not proven capable of
supplying power.”  Annual inflation accelerated to 12.6 percent in January
from 10.3 percent a month earlier after the government reduced
gasoline subsidies, boosting fuel prices, the Abuja-based
National Bureau of Statistics said today.  Nigeria  increased its target for this year’s budget deficit
to 2.97 percent of gross domestic product, from a 2.77 percent
forecast in December after a weeklong general strike last month
forced the government to backtrack on fully scrapping fuel
subsidies.  The government plans to cut spending by 100 billion naira
($634 million) on administration, training, transport and other
costs to offset spending on fuel subsidies,  “In the 2013 budget we’ll be looking at closing
agencies,” Okonjo-Iweala said. “At the moment we’re cutting
out all the soft things, all the excess.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Leigh Baldwin in Zurich at 
 lbaldwin3@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  