-- Nokia Extends Gains on Product Plans in Barcelona Show
-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 2012-02-20T18:13:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/nokia-extends-gains-on-trade-show-re-entry-plan-helsinki-mover.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  rose a fifth consecutive
trading day in Helsinki, the longest streak of gains in 14
months, as the world’s largest maker of mobile phones prepared
to return to the biggest European trade fair in its industry.  Nokia  rose  2.5 percent to 4.18 euros at the close of
trading in Helsinki, pushing the stock 11 percent higher since
Feb. 13. That’s the most consecutive increases since a seven-day
streak in December 2010. The Espoo, Finland-based manufacturer
will display products at the  Mobile World Congress  in Barcelona,
 Spain , starting Feb. 27, its first appearance on the show floor
in three years.  New products that Nokia may introduce at the trade fair
include an expansion of the Lumia line that runs on  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT) ’s Windows Phone, the Techradar and Pocketnow blogs said in
reports starting Feb. 13. The models may include a global
version of the Lumia 900, which was announced in the U.S. in
January, as well as a low-priced handset called the Lumia 610,
according to the industry blogs.  “People are turning more positive in the short term
because there should be plenty of announcements,” said Sami Sarkamies, a Helsinki-based analyst at Nordea Bank. “The share
was perhaps oversold after the fourth-quarter report, which was
followed by downgrades and target-price reductions.”  Lower-Priced Models  The Finnish company is also expected to introduce three
low-priced models in its Asha line and one smartphone running
its 10-year-old Symbian software, Pocketnow reported. Nokia said
on Jan. 26 that it’s scrapping a target of 150 million more
devices based on Symbian that the company had set during a
strategy change in February 2011. It didn’t provide a new goal.  There has also been speculation about a CDMA-technology
version of the Lumia 800 handset and an LTE version of the Lumia
710, providing a cheap handset for fourth-generation networks,
Nordea Bank’s Sarkamies said.  Doug Dawson , a Nokia spokesman, declined to discuss any
products the company will put on display at the show.  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , the third-largest maker of mobile phones and
the biggest vendor of smartphones, doesn’t participate in Mobile
World Congress.  Nokia last had a booth at the congress in February 2009.
Since then, the company has held off-site press conferences
during the show, including an announcement two years ago of an
alliance with  Intel Corp . to produce the MeeGo smartphone
software and Chief Executive Officer Stephen Elop’s session last
year to explain details of his decision to adopt Windows Phone
and other elements of Nokia’s strategy shift.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  