-- Nudes, Boozers Jostle in Paris Exhibit of Finnish Artist: Review
-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 2012-02-20T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/nudes-boozers-jostle-in-paris-exhibit-of-finnish-artist-jorg-von-uthmann.html
Akseli Gallen-Kallela did with his
paintings what Jean Sibelius accomplished with his music: He put
 Finland  on the map.  Finland is a young country. From the Middle Ages it was a
part of  Sweden , then was annexed by  Russia  in 1809. Only after
the demise of the Czars and their empire, in 1917, did it become
independent.  Before political independence was achieved, a literary and
artistic movement sought to create a national identity. Gallen-
Kallela (1865-1931) was a key player in that drive.  Although he is virtually unknown outside Finland, the show
at the  Musee d’Orsay , the first ever in Paris devoted to his
work, is worth seeing. It opens our eyes to a world of
picturesque lakes, infinite forests and eerie folk tales.  Gallen -- he added the second part of his name only in 1907
to make it sound more Finnish -- studied in Paris where he
acquired a solid technique. Early paintings, such as
“Unmasked,” a nude with an enigmatic smile, demonstrate that
he learned more from the realists in the Courbet tradition than
from contemporary trends.  The Impressionists left him indifferent.  In the 1890s, he had a change of heart. He decided that
competing with the French, who dominated the art market, was
pointless and immersed himself in his own country’s folklore.  National Epic  Half a century earlier, Elias Lonnrot, a country doctor,
had collected old Finnish ballads, songs and incantations
memorized and handed down by word of mouth for generations. The
result of his research, published in 1835 and again, in an
enlarged edition, in 1849, was greeted with enthusiasm:
“Kalevala” became Finland’s national epic.  Like the German “Nibelungenlied,” which inspired  Richard Wagner , “Kalevala” turned out to be an inexhaustible source
for Gallen-Kallela’s imagination.  We already know many of the characters and locations from
Sibelius’s tone poems -- Pohjola, the land in the north;
Kullervo, the tragic serial killer; Lemminkainen, the carefree
adventurer whom his mother brings back from Tuonela, the island
of the dead.  Gallen-Kallela and Sibelius were friends. “Symposium,” a
canvas in the exhibition, shows them drinking at a Helsinki
watering hole with the conductor Robert Kajanus while a fourth
boozer is already fast asleep.  Vibrant Colors  For his mythological paintings, Gallen-Kallela developed a
new style. It became flatter and simpler with vivid colors and
strong outlines not unlike Diego Rivera’s murals.  They impressed the members of Die Bruecke in Dresden
sufficiently to invite him to join their group of artists.  The show also includes furniture, textiles and carpets that
Gallen-Kallela designed for his home in central Finland. The
influence of William Morris and the U.K. Arts and Crafts
Movement is obvious although the Finn’s work is more rustic.  The show ends abruptly in 1910 with his trip to what is now
 Kenya , where he stayed for 16 months. Of his later work, which
often rehashes his old themes, we see nothing.  Although he was already in his 50s, he volunteered to fight
in the war of independence against Russia. After the conflict
was over, he was charged with designing the flag, currency,
stamps and uniforms of the new country.  In the end, you may prefer his landscapes. Looking at them,
it’s hard not to think of Sibelius’s hymns to the mystery and
majesty of Finland’s lakes and woods.  “Akseli Gallen-Kallela: Une Passion Finlandaise,” which
is supported by  Fortum Oyj (FUM1V) , is at the Musee d’Orsay, Paris,
through May 6. From June 1 to Sept. 2, it will be at the Museum
Kunstpalast in Dusseldorf. Information:  http://www.musee -
orsay.fr.  (Jorg von Uthmann is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Jorg von Uthmann in Paris at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 