-- Oil Rises to 9-Month High; Iran Says Halts Europe Exports
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   Y e e   K a i   P i n
-- 2012-02-20T20:31:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/oil-rises-to-9-month-high-iran-says-halts-europe-exports.html
Oil rose to a nine-month high in  New
York  after  Iran  said it halted some crude exports and investors
bet that fuel demand will increase as Europe moves closer to
bailing out Greece.  Futures climbed as much as 2.1 percent for a fourth day of
gains, the longest rising streak since December. Iran will
supply crude to “new customers” instead of companies in the
U.K. and France, the oil ministry’s news website, Shana, said,
citing Alireza Nikzad Rahbar, a spokesman. Prices also advanced
as European finance ministers prepared to meet to discuss a 130
billion-euro ($172 billion) aid package for Greece, the
country’s second rescue in less than two years.  “The heightened level of tension surrounding  Iran’s
nuclear program  continues to support prices, as does
satisfactory growth in the U.S. and  China ,” said  Christopher Bellew , a senior broker at Jefferies Bache Ltd. in  London , who
correctly predicted last week that the price of Brent crude
would advance to $120 a barrel.  Crude for March delivery rose as much as $2.20 to $105.44 a
barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , the highest intraday price since May 5. The contract,
which expires tomorrow, last traded at $104.92 at the 1:15 p.m.
New York close of Globex electronic trading. The more actively
traded April contract gained $1.66 to $105.26. Prices increased
4.6 percent last week and are up 6.2 percent so far this year.  Brent oil for April settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures  Europe  exchange climbed as much as $1.57, or 1.3
percent, to $121.15 a barrel before settling at $120.05. The
European benchmark contract was at a premium of $15.13 to New
York-traded crude. The gap was a record $27.88 on Oct. 14.  Preempting Ban  Iran’s suspension of exports followed a warning by its oil
minister that Tehran might preempt a European Union ban on
purchases of the nation’s crude planned to start July 1, Rahbar
said without giving further details, according to the Shana
report yesterday. The EU and U.S. imposed sanctions on Iran, the
second-largest oil producer in the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries, in an attempt to halt its nuclear program.  EU nations bought a combined 18 percent of Iran’s crude and
condensate exports, or 452,000 barrels a day, in the first half
of 2011, according to the most recent data on the website of the
U.S. Energy Information Administration.  France  purchased 2
percent of Iran’s shipments, or 49,000 barrels a day, while the
U.K. took less than 1 percent, the data showed.  Sufficient Stockpiles  The EU said it has sufficient supplies of oil and petroleum
products to weather a disruption in Iranian supplies. Stockpiles
are at 136 million tons or 120 days of consumption, “well above
the 90-day minimum,”  Marlene Holzner , an EU spokeswoman, said
today in an e-mailed statement.  “The continuity of supplies of crude oil and petroleum
products to European consumers should therefore not be
immediately affected, even in case of an abrupt halt of all
imports from Iran,” Holzner said.  Total SA, France’s biggest oil company, has stopped buying
Iranian crude, Chief Executive Officer Christophe De Margerie
told Bloomberg Television in a Jan. 27 interview in Davos. A
Total spokesman didn’t respond to calls to his mobile phone or
an e-mail yesterday.  BP Plc doesn’t buy crude from Iran, David Nicholas, a
London-based spokesman, said by phone. An official for Royal
Dutch Shell Plc, Europe’s largest energy company, said she had
no comment when contacted by phone in London, asking not to be
identified due to internal policy.  Finance Ministers Meeting  European governments moved toward a second rescue of
 Greece , calculating that the 130 billion-euro ($172 billion)
cost of a fresh bailout is a price worth paying to prevent a
default that could shatter the euro area.  Finance ministers will weigh the terms of new loans to
Greece and a possible contribution by central banks at a meeting
today in Brussels. They also aim to start a bond exchange with
private investors meant to stave off a Greek bankruptcy next
month.  Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  told ministers this
weekend he found all the extra spending cuts needed to secure a
bailout, according to an e-mailed transcript of a Feb. 18
cabinet meeting in  Athens .  “Sentiment in the market has changed in the last week,”
said  Tetsu Emori , a commodity fund manager at Astmax Ltd. in
 Tokyo  who predicts oil will reach $110 a barrel in the near
term. “We had news that Iran stopped some exports so that might
have pushed up prices. The euro countries have no choice but to
accept an agreement; otherwise everything will collapse.”  Oil also increased with stocks after China cut reserve
ratios at its banks to boost lending and economic growth as the
country’s housing market cools and the European debt crisis
weighs on exports. The MSCI Asia Pacific index was up 0.8
percent at 128 in Tokyo, extending the longest run of weekly
gains since 2005.  Technical Resistance  China accounted for about 11 percent of global oil demand
in 2010 and the 27 EU member states consumed 16 percent,
according to BP’s annual Statistical Review of World Energy.  Crude in New York opened today’s trading above long-term
technical resistance at $103.39 a barrel, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. On the weekly chart, that’s the 61.8
percent Fibonacci retracement of the drop to $32.40 in December
2008 from a record high of $147.27 in July that year. Buy orders
tend to be clustered above chart-resistance levels.  “With the break in resistance, probably some fresh buying
is coming into the market,” said Emori at Astmax. “Crude
completely broke $100 so I think that will now be a very
important support level.”  Hedge Funds  Hedge funds  and other large speculators boosted their net-
long position in crude futures to the highest level in nine
months, according to the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission. Managed-money bets that prices will rise, in futures
and options combined, outnumbered short positions by 233,889
contracts in the week ended Feb. 14, the Washington-based
regulator said in its report on Feb. 17. Net-long positions rose
by 28,180 contracts, or 13.7 percent, from a week earlier.  Money managers raised bullish bets on  Brent crude  by 6,818
contracts last week, according to data from the ICE Futures
Europe exchange. Speculative bets that prices will rise, in
futures and options combined, outnumbered short positions by
97,213 lots, the London-based exchange said today in its weekly
Commitment of Traders report. That’s up from 90,395 lots the
previous week.  March-delivery gasoline rose 3.55 cents, or 1.2 percent, to
$3.0511 a gallon on the Nymex. Prices gained 1.4 percent last
week, and are up 14 percent so far this year.  Heating oil for March delivery gained 2.73 cents, or 0.9
percent, to $3.2162 a gallon on the exchange.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net ;
Yee Kai Pin in Singapore at 
 kyee13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  