-- Oil Profits Slide Fastest Since Lehman Collapse on Gas: Energy
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 2012-02-21T09:29:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/oil-profits-falling-fastest-since-lehman-from-exxon-to-chesapeake-energy.html
Profits for the biggest U.S. energy
producers including  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  are poised to decline the
most since the financial meltdown of 2008-09 as the drilling
technique known as fracking collapses natural gas prices.  Exxon and  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK) , which today reports 2011
earnings, will see net income in 2012 slide about 8 percent and
10 percent, respectively, according to the mean of analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. That would be the biggest drop
since 2009 for the companies, the largest U.S. gas producers.  While higher global demand for transportation fuels has
driven up crude prices 32 percent since 2009, the domestic gas
glut is pinching earnings for producers even as it pushes the
U.S. toward energy independence. Especially hurt are Chesapeake
and  ConocoPhillips (COP) , which amassed gas assets before the full
impact of fracking on supply growth was apparent, said Michael McMahon, a managing director for energy investments at Pine
Brook Partners LLC, a private equity firm in  New York .  “Fracking has opened up vast areas of development on a
scale that’s practically overwhelming for the industry,” said
William Dutcher, president of Dutcher and Co., an Oklahoma City-
based operator of 1,300 oil and gas wells.  Oil output  from U.S. fields including in shale rock is at a
nine-year high and gas production hasn’t been this robust in
almost four decades, Energy Department figures show.  “Shale has driven the gas price down to where it’s
creating economic hardship for producers, especially those that
made acquisitions in 2006 and 2007, when gas was so expensive,”
Dutcher said.  Share Performance  As a result, the U.S., which burns more than one-fifth of
the world’s crude and natural gas, will become largely energy
self-sufficient by 2030,  Robert Dudley , BP Plc’s chief executive
officer, said last month.  The surge in gas supply in the shorter term weighs on the
shares of drillers most dependent on the fuel for revenue.  Chesapeake underperformed the 43-member  Standard and Poor’s
500 Energy Index  in the two years through yesterday. It fell 10
percent in the period, while Exxon matched the benchmark’s 30
percent gain, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Gas futures traded in New York plunged 32 percent in 2011
to end the year at $2.989 per million British thermal units for
the largest annual decline in half a decade. Since then, gas
fell another 12 percent, thanks to mild North American weather
that crimped demand for the fuel to run furnaces and added to
the surfeit. The peak of $15.78 was reached in December 2005.  Shift Toward Oil  Chesapeake was one of the first gas explorers to announce
production curtailments last month in response to tumbling
prices. The Oklahoma City-based company today is expected to say
net income for last year was little changed at $1.67 billion,
helped by a shift toward more oil drilling that eroded reliance
on lower-priced gas.  Facing a 2012 cash-flow shortfall that Raymond James &
Associates Inc. analysts estimated at $3.5 billion, Chesapeake
announced $10 billion to $12 billion in asset sales on Feb. 13
aimed at raising money. The planned sales are equivalent to 30
percent of the company’s total asset value.  Stung by free-falling  gas prices , Chesapeake is burdened by
a net debt load that is twice the size of Exxon’s, a company 27
times larger by market value.  Horizontal drilling techniques and advances in hydraulic
fracturing, or fracking, developed in north  Texas  during the
past 15 years have enabled energy producers to unleash oil and
gas from rock formations such as shale.  Reserves in places like  North Dakota  and  Pennsylvania  that
were once regarded as untouchable will make most energy imports
superfluous during the next two decades, Dudley said.  Exxon-XTO  “Significant changes in U.S. supply and demand prospects,
for example, highlight the likelihood that import dependence in
what is today’s largest energy importer will decline
substantially,” Dudley said in the company’s annual long-term
global energy outlook on Jan. 18.  Exxon has been expanding its presence in shale and other
so-called unconventional gas formations since its $34.9 billion
purchase of XTO Energy in June 2010. The acquisition, which
targeted XTO’s fracking expertise and gas fields, was Exxon’s
largest transaction since buying Mobil Corp. in 1999.  Exxon’s output was 49 percent gas last year, up from 38
percent five years earlier, according to U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission filings. By contrast, for Chesapeake gas
accounts for about 84 percent of output, down from 91 percent in
2006, a reduction driven by the company’s push to focus drilling
on oil prospects.  ‘Hurt Themselves’  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and ConocoPhillips, the second- and third-
largest U.S. energy companies by market value, also are expected
to post their largest full-year profit declines in 2012 since
2009, when worldwide fuel markets were reeling from the collapse
of demand in the wake of the financial crisis.  “In a sense, they’ve hurt themselves,” Leonard Coburn,
president of Washington-based Coburn International Energy
Consultants LLC and a former director of Russian and Eurasian
affairs at the Energy Department. “But that’s why we’re seeing
them shifting away from gas toward more oil.”  Shale formations will account for 49 percent of total U.S.
gas production by 2035, up from 23 percent in 2010, the Energy
Department said in a Feb. 14 report. When other geologic
formations such as tight sands that require the same intensive
drilling techniques are added in, unconventional fields will
pump 77 percent of domestic supply by 2035, the department said.  The supply bonanza of gas and oil made possible with
fracking means the U.S. will become increasingly independent of
foreign energy producers at the same time as burgeoning economic
powers such as  China  grow more reliant on overseas supplies,
said Jonathan Chanis, managing member of New Tide Asset
Management LLC in Torrington,  Connecticut . That outlook assumes
lawmakers and regulators at the federal and state levels won’t
place expensive restrictions on drillers, he said.  “With the right policy decisions in  Washington  and places
like Harrisburg and  Albany , the  United States  will be in an
extremely positive position,” Chanis said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Carroll  in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net 
CHK US <Equity>
COP US <Equity>
CVX US <Equity>
XOM US <Equity>
APC US <Equity>
APA US <Equity>
EOG US <Equity>
DVN US <Equity>
MRO US <Equity>
NBL US <Equity> 