-- London House Prices Surge to Near Record High in February, Rightmove Says
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2012-02-20T11:55:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/london-house-prices-surge-to-near-record-as-supply-shortage-helps-sellers.html
Asking prices  for  London  homes rose
to close to a record in February, helping push national values
up the most in almost a decade, Rightmove Plc said.  Average asking prices in the U.K. capital rose 2.5 percent
from January to 449,252 pounds ($710,300), less than 1,000
pounds below the record reached in October, the operator of
Britain’s biggest property website said in a report today.
Prices in England and Wales rose 4.1 percent on the month, the
most since April 2002.  “Confidence in bricks and mortar in the capital seems set
to continue, with ‘seller-power’ twice as strong in London
compared to the rest of the U.K.,”  Miles Shipside , commercial
director of Rightmove, said in a statement. “Upwards price-
pressure is likely to be maintained in 2012.”  A lack of supply is helping to prop up prices, while an
increase in retail sales in January and better-than-expected
services and manufacturing surveys suggest Britain won’t plunge
back into a recession.  Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King  said
this week the economy should “gradually” recover this year.  The number of new property listings in London fell 9
percent in January from a year earlier, Rightmove said. This is
an “early indication that shortage of sellers and upwards price
pressure will again feature in 2012,” it said.  Nationally,  home prices  rose 1.4 percent in January from a
year earlier to an average 233,252 pounds. In London, the annual
price increase was 4.3 percent.  Capital Leaders  The London districts of Richmond-upon-Thames, Kingston-
upon-Thames and Wandsworth recorded the largest monthly
increases in asking prices within the capital, Rightmove said.
Nationally, all 10 regions of England and  Wales  tracked by the
company showed asking prices gained. The southeast led the
increase, up 6.9 percent.  While  Britain’s economy  shrank 0.2 percent in the fourth
quarter and unemployment held at a 16-year high of 8.4 percent,
U.K. retail sales unexpectedly rose for a second month in
January. Meanwhile, manufacturing returned to growth in January
and expansion in services accelerated.  “The onset of the spring moving season generally leads to
more ambitious pricing of properties coming to market, partly
due to estate agents vying for new seller instructions,”
Rightmove said. Search activity on the company’s website
“indicates a pent-up desire to move that out-weighs the
uncertain economic outlook,” it said.  In a separate release today, the  Council of Mortgage
Lenders  said that while U.K. gross mortgage lending fell 14
percent to 10.5 billion pounds in January from the previous
month, it was up 10 percent from a year earlier. A seasonal
decline is expected in January, the London-based CML said.  “Should inflationary pressures continue to fall back, the
squeeze on household finances should ease progressively and help
support stronger economic recovery going into the second half of
the year,” CML chief economist Bob Pannell said in the
statement. “This can only be good news for the housing market
further down the track.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  