-- Hong Kong Lawmaker Regina Ip Joins City’s Leadership Race
-- B y   S o p h i e   L e u n g
-- 2012-02-20T11:59:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/hong-kong-lawmaker-ip-declares-to-join-city-s-leadership-race.html
Regina Ip,  Hong Kong ’s former
security secretary, plans to run for the city’s top leadership
position after front runner  Henry Tang  became embroiled in a
scandal over an illegal basement.  Ip, the first woman to run the city’s security bureau,
declared her candidacy for next month’s election at a press
briefing this evening.  “As Mr. Tang continues to run for election despite his low
popularity because of his integrity problem, I have decided to
take part in the race as I want to offer another choice to Hong
Kong people,” she said.  Ip left the Hong Kong government in 2003 after 500,000
people took to the streets in protest at her attempt to
introduce an anti-subversion law in the former British colony.
Tang, formerly Hong Kong’s No. 2 official, is facing calls to
quit the contest after newspapers reported the illegal
construction of a basement at a property owned by his wife.  Ip would also be competing against Leung Chun-ying, a
former government adviser, and Albert Ho, a lawmaker with the
 Democratic Party . Tang shouldn’t lead the city, Ip said Feb. 17,
a day after he apologized for the illegal property addition.  Hong Kong, which won’t have universal suffrage until 2017,
will have its top official picked by a 1,200-strong election
committee made up of the city’s richest men, professionals and
representatives from  China . All candidates need to get at least
150 nomination votes by the end of February to stand for
election on March 25.  Ip was elected to the Legislative Council, Hong Kong’s
lawmaking institution, in 2008. She later founded the New
People’s Party.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophie Leung in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in Hong Kong at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  