-- LontohCoal Targets China, India Power Plants With Low-Grade Supply Type
-- B y   D i n a k a r   S e t h u r a m a n
-- 2012-02-20T02:15:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/lontohcoal-targets-china-india-power-plants-with-low-grade-supply-type.html
LontohCoal Ltd. (LONTOZ) , the first African
miner to sell shares in  Hong Kong , plans to start shipping lower
grade coal to  China  and  India  to take advantage of demand for
the less expensive type at power plants.  The Sandton, South Africa company plans to start exporting
70,000 metric tons a month later this year from a mine in South
Africa, Chief Executive Officer Tshepo Kgadima said in an
interview in New Delhi. Supplies from the Johannesburg-based
 company  will have a heat value of about 5,500 kilocalories and
20 percent ash content, he said.  “Large coal producers in the world are interested to see
the demand fundamentals of China and India,” Kgadima said.
“The power sector is driving demand in Asia.”  China, the world’s biggest coal consumer, surpassed  Japan 
as the largest importer of the fuel in 2011, according to
customs data from both countries. India, which uses the mineral
to fire more than half of its power plants, imported 81.1
million tons of the steam type last year, according to shipping
data from New Delhi-based Interocean Group.  Lontoh may boost output of the steel-making, or coking, and
power-plant, or steam, varieties of coal to 46 million tons by
2017 at the Lubimbi mine project in  Zimbabwe , he said.  The $8 billion project includes a coal-to-liquids plant, a
1,200-kilometer (746-mile) pipeline and a port in  Mozambique , he
said. The company will ship the supplies by reducing the coal to
a watery mixture called a slurry and pumping it through the pipe
and then on to customers in China and India, Kgadima said.  China Market  “China will be our biggest supply market for coking coal
while India will likely be for thermal coal,” Kgadima said.  Steam coal output at Lubimbi will be around 26 million tons
and will have a heat content of more than 6,500 kilocalories per
kilogram.  Australia ’s Newcastle coal grade, a benchmark type for
 Asia , releases about 6,700 kilocalories of energy and has a
typical ash content of 10 percent to 12 percent.  Lontoh is in the midst of a capital-raising process, which
is expected to close in the middle of March, ahead of its
initial public offering in Hong Kong, said Kgadima.  Coal export  prices  at South Africa’s Richards Bay decreased
to the lowest level in three weeks to an average $104.83 a ton
in the week ended Feb. 10, according to data on Bloomberg from
IHS McCloskey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dinakar Sethuraman in New Delhi at 
 dinakar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Schmollinger at 
 christian.s@bloomberg.net  