-- How the U.S.-Iran Standoff Looks From Israel: Efraim Inbar
-- B y   E f r a i m   I n b a r
-- 2012-02-20T00:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/how-the-u-s-iran-standoff-looks-from-israel-efraim-inbar.html
The upheaval in the Arab world has
damaged  Israel ’s strategic environment. Its peace treaty with
 Egypt , a pillar of national security for more than three
decades, is in question. More important, the events in the Arab
world have deflected attention from Israel’s most feared
scenario, a nuclear Iran, playing into the Iranian strategy to
buy time in order to present the world with a nuclear fait
accompli. Israel’s leaders fear that the international response
is now unlikely to impact Iranian policy, at a point when its
nuclear program is so advanced.  Only in November 2011 did the  International Atomic Energy
Agency , an institution that for years refused to call a spade a
spade, publish a  report  voicing its concern over Iranian
activities that do not easily fit with those of a civilian
program. And only in January, did the European Union and the
U.S. declare new sanctions that could have a significant effect
on  Iran ’s economy. For Israel, this may have come too late.  Officials in  Tel Aviv  have tried to alert the West to the
dangers of a nuclear Iran for more than a decade. They argued
that Iran would cause the technology to proliferate in the
region as states such as  Turkey , Egypt and  Saudi Arabia  sought
such weapons, turning a multipolar nuclear Middle East into a
strategic nightmare. A nuclear-armed Iran would strengthen its
hegemony in the energy sector by its mere location along the
oil-rich  Persian Gulf  and the Caspian Basin.  It would also result in the West’s loss of the Central
Asian states, which would either gravitate toward Iran or try to
secure a nuclear umbrella with Russia or  China , countries much
closer to the region than the U.S. is. A regime in Tehran
emboldened by the possession of nuclear weapons would become
more active in supporting radical Shiite elements in  Iraq  and
agitating those communities in the  Persian Gulf states .  Bombs to Proxies  Worse, since Iran backs terrorist organizations such as
 Hezbollah ,  Hamas  and  Islamic Jihad , it may be reckless enough to
transfer nuclear bombs to such proxy organizations. They would
have no moral constraints on detonating such a device in a
European or American harbor.  Iran’s nuclear program  -- coupled
with further improvements in Iranian missiles -- would initially
put most European capitals, and eventually North American ones,
within range of a potential attack.  Such arguments are nowadays more acceptable, but a large
part of the Western strategic community, particularly on the
European side of the Atlantic, views Iran as a rational actor
that still can be dissuaded by economic sanctions. Moreover,
even if Iran gets the bomb, it is argued that “it can be
contained and deterred,” rejecting the “alarmist” view from
officials in  Jerusalem .  Israel is increasingly exasperated with Western attitudes
for several reasons. First, it doesn’t believe that when Iran is
so close to the bomb, sanctions are useful. Indeed, the history
of economic sanctions indicates that a determined regime is
unlikely to be affected by such difficulties. Moreover, the
stakes that Iran’s ruling elite have in the nuclear program are
inextricably connected to the regime’s political, and even
physical, survival. The bomb is a guarantee for the government’s
own future. Destabilizing a nuclear state, which may lead to
chronic domestic instability, civil war or disintegration, is a
more risky enterprise than undermining a non-nuclear regime.  Weak U.S. President  Unfortunately, American statements that all options are on
the table, hinting at military action if sanctions fail, don’t
impress the Iranians. The perception of most Middle Easterners,
be it foes or friends of the U.S., is that President  Barack Obama  is extremely weak, hardly understands the harsh realities
of the  Middle East , and that American use of force is highly
unlikely. Perceived American weakness undermines the chances of
economic sanctions being effective.  Second, Israel’s threat perception is much higher than in
the West, particularly after the recent Middle East turmoil.
Actually, all Middle East leaders wear realpolitik lenses for
viewing international affairs and tend to think in terms of
worst-case scenarios. Israel’s leadership, in addition, sees
through a Jewish prism and is unlikely to take a nonchalant view
of existential threats to the Jewish state. Israeli fears have
been fed by explicit statements from Iranian President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  and Supreme Leader  Ayatollah Ali Khamenei , who
advocated the destruction of Israel. Jewish history taught
Israel that genocidal threats shouldn’t be dismissed.  Third, the strategic community in Israel questions the
possibility of establishing a stable deterrence between Israel
and Iran, modeled on the relationship between the two
superpowers during the  Cold War . Mutual deterrence between two
nuclear protagonists is never automatic. Maintaining a second-
strike capability is an ongoing process, which is inherently
uncertain and ambiguous. Moreover, before an initial “effective”
second-strike capability is achieved, a nuclear race may create
the fear of a first-strike attack, which might itself trigger a
nuclear exchange.  In a multipolar environment, achieving stable deterrence
would be even more difficult. Middle Eastern powers would also
have to establish early-warning systems that monitor in all
directions. These are complicated and therefore inherently
unstable, particularly when the distances between enemies are so
small. The influence of haste and the need to respond quickly
can have dangerous consequences. The rudimentary nuclear forces
in the region also may be prone to accidents and mistakes.  While it can be argued that Middle East leaders behave
rationally, many of them engage in brinkmanship leading to
miscalculation. More important still, the value they place on
human life is lower than in the West, making them insensitive to
the costs of attack. Iranian leaders have said they are ready to
pay a heavy price for the destruction of Israel, anticipating
only minimal damage in the Muslim world.  As a result, the strategic calculus in Jerusalem indicates
that preventing a nuclear Iran is important and urgent,
justifying risks and considerable costs. Delaying Iran’s nuclear
ambitions by even a few years would be a worthwhile achievement.
Moreover, the feeling in Israel is that the fears many analysts
express of regional repercussions from an Israeli military
strike are exaggerated.  The debate in Jerusalem is whether to allow more time for
covert operations, or to initiate a pre-emptive strike against
Iran’s nuclear installations. This is not an easy decision to
make. An unexpectedly muscular Western move may spare Israel’s
government the deliberations, but there is little hope that such
a scenario will materialize. Once again, the Israelis would be
left to go it alone.  (Efraim Inbar is a professor of political studies at Bar-
Ilan University and the director of the Begin-Sadat (BESA)
Center for Strategic Studies. This is the fourth in a series of
op-ed articles about Iran, from writers in countries that have a
direct interest in the escalating debate over how to rein in its
alleged nuclear weapons program. The opinions expressed are his
own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Efraim Inbar at  Efraim.Inbar@biu.ac.il   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Marc Champion at   mchampion7@bloomberg.net  