-- Lloyds Former Chief Daniels to Forfeit 40% of Bonus After Insurance Losses
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2012-02-20T14:11:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/lloyds-former-ceo-to-forfeit-25-of-bonus-after-insurance-losses.html
Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) ’s former
chief executive officer,  Eric Daniels , will lose 40 percent of
his final bonus as he and 12 other current and former executives
were penalized for improper sales of insurance products.  Daniels, 60, will lose about 580,000 pounds ($920,000) of
his 1.45 million-pound bonus for 2010, Lloyds said in a
statement today. All the reductions apply to their deferred
stock payouts.  Tim Tookey, Lloyds’s finance director, Truett Tate, the
head of the wholesale unit, Helen Weir, the former head of the
retail bank, and Archie Kane, the bank’s former group insurance
director, will have 25 percent of their 2010 bonuses clawed
back, according to a person familiar with the matter who
declined to be identified because the individuals’ names weren’t
made public. The reductions follow the bank’s decision to set
aside 3.2 billion pounds for loan-insurance sales practices that
were found improper by regulators.  The other eight people affected by the decision, members of
the bank’s group executive committee, will have their bonuses
cut by 5 percent.  “The bonus pool for 2011 will reflect a further
reduction” as the insurance provision “will affect all
individuals eligible to be considered for a discretionary bonus
for that year,” Lloyds said in the statement. “The board
wishes to emphasize that its decision is based entirely on the
principle of accountability, and in no way on culpability or
wrong-doing by the individuals concerned.”  First Clawbacks  It’s the first time clawbacks have been applied to U.K.
bank board members since the policy was agreed on by Group of 20
leaders in Pittsburgh in September 2009. Inappropriate sales of
payment protection insurance, used to cover payments on credit
cards and mortgages in case of illness or unemployment, will
push Lloyds into a 2.6 billion-pound net loss for 2011,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Kane was in line to receive a bonus of 767,000 pounds, Tate
a payment of about 1 million pounds, Tookey 942,000 pounds and
Helen Weir 875,000 pounds, according to the bank’s 2010 annual
report.  Daniels stepped down as CEO of Lloyds in February last year
and remained on the payroll until September. In 2008, he led the
bank’s takeover of HBOS Plc, the U.K.’s biggest mortgage lender,
whose losses led Lloyds to cede a 41 percent stake to the
government and seek a taxpayer-funded bailout of more than 20
billion pounds.  Lloyds Chairman Win Bischoff said in June that the lender
had had “no occasion” to consult Daniels since he left the
CEO’s post, even though he remained on the payroll.  Lloyds is scheduled to report its full-year results on
Friday. Last month, Lloyds CEO Antonio Horta-Osorio said he was
turning down his 2011 bonus to reflect the bank’s performance
and his nine-week absence last year for exhaustion.  Customers who bought PPI rarely compared prices and terms
or switched providers and usually weren’t aware they could buy
it from a firm other than their lender, the U.K.’s Competition
Commission has said. The mis-selling of PPI is “likely to lead
to a redress” of 9 billion pounds across the industry,
Financial Services Authority CEO Hector Sants said in June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  