-- Super-PAC Backing Romney Began Month With $16 Million
-- B y   G r e g   G i r o u x   a n d   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2012-02-21T15:45:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/paul-super-pac-pulls-in-2-4-million-in-january-with-thiel-help.html
Restore Our Future, a U.S. political
action committee supporting Republican presidential candidate
 Mitt Romney , started this month with about $16 million in cash -
- 26 times more than its chief competitor’s camp.  Red White and Blue Fund, the super-PAC supporting former
U.S. Senator  Rick Santorum  of  Pennsylvania , raised $2.1 million
in January and finished the month with $626,607 to spend. Even
so, the PAC has continued to raise money in February and today
announced an additional $600,000 advertising buy in  Michigan ,
Romney’s birthplace and the site of a Feb. 28 primary.  The emergence of super-PACs has altered the dynamics of the
presidential campaign, aiding candidates when they run short of
money or running negative ads so the White House hopefuls can
stay positive.  Restore Our Future has helped Romney “respond
overwhelmingly and negatively to a challenger that threatens”
his lead, said Stephen Wayne, a professor of government at
 Georgetown University  in Washington.  With the additional ad buy, the Red White and Blue Fund
will have spent about $1.3 million on Santorum’s behalf in
Michigan, said Stuart Roy, a spokesman for the group.  Sources of Cash  More than three-fourths of the pro-Santorum money in
January came from two donors -- William Dore, president of Dore
Energy Corp. in Lake Charles, Louisiana, who contributed $1
million; and Foster Friess, a  fund manager  based in Jackson
Hole, Wyoming, who donated $669,000 last month after giving
$331,000 to the PAC last year, bringing his total to $1 million.  The pro-Romney group, which raised $6.6 million last month,
also began February with about seven times as much in the bank
as a super-PAC supporting former U.S. House Speaker Newt Gingrich. That PAC, Winning Our Future, had $2.4 million coming
into February. Almost all of its $11 million in donations last
month came from  Sheldon Adelson , chairman of the  Las Vegas Sands
Corp. (LVS) , and his wife, Miriam, each of whom gave $5 million, and
Texas billionaire Harold Simmons, who donated $500,000.  Priorities USA Action, which backs President Barack Obama’s
re-election and was founded by former White House aides, raised
just $58,816 in January and ended the month with $1.3 million in
the bank. The lack of cash may have helped spur Obama’s campaign
manager, Jim Messina, to e-mail supporters on Feb. 6 that White
House and Cabinet officials would begin helping the super-PAC
raise money to take on Republican groups.  40 Donors  Unlike the pro-Santorum and pro-Gingrich super-PACs, which
have been dependent on a few wealthy individual donors, the
super-PAC backing Romney raised most of its money, $5.8 million,
from 40 donors who gave at least $50,000 each, according to a
filing the group submitted yesterday to the Federal Election
Commission.  Bruce Kovner , co-founder of the New York-based hedge
fund Caxton Associates LP, and two other people gave $500,000
each.  The figures were released as Romney, a former Massachusetts
governor, campaigned in Cincinnati, focusing on the economy and
criticizing Santorum for voting to raise the debt ceiling
without offsetting spending cuts. “When Republicans go to
 Washington  and spend like Democrats, you’re going to have a lot
of spending,” Romney said.  Restore Our Future commercials have made similar charges
against Santorum. The super-PACs aren’t allowed to coordinate
with the candidates, yet they are often run by allies, including
former staff members, who mount helpful advertising campaigns.  ‘Attack Dogs’  “They have been the attack dogs in this year’s cycle,
helping to make or seal the fates of various contenders in
several contests,” said Costas Panagopoulos, director of the
Center for Electoral Politics and Democracy at Fordham
University in  New York .  They have also helped Gingrich and Santorum compete with
the better-funded Romney through the early primaries and
caucuses. Both Santorum, who won Iowa, and Gingrich, who won
 South Carolina , saw their campaign fundraising tick up last
month after their victories.  “They’ve helped facilitate a robust, competitive primary
campaign by giving candidates like  Newt Gingrich , who may
otherwise have run out of steam, additional visibility and time
to build up a viable campaign,” said  David Primo , a political
science professor at the University of Rochester in New York.  Restore Our Future spent more than $11 million in January
to buy advertisements as the primary season officially began.
That made up most of the almost $14 million spent during the
month. Money also went to direct mail, polling and calls to
voters.  Top-Dollar Donors  The group continued to benefit from Romney’s ties to the
financial world as a former private equity executive.  David Tepper  of Appaloosa Management LP gave Restore Our Future
$375,000 last month. The group also got $250,000 from Julian Robertson, co-founder of the hedge fund Tiger Management LLC.  J.W. Marriott Jr., the chairman and chief executive officer
of the hotel operator  Marriott International Inc. (MAR) , and Richard Marriott, chairman of  Host Hotels & Resorts Inc. (HST) , gave $250,000
apiece. Both companies are based in Bethesda,  Maryland . Palo
Alto, California-based  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  CEO Meg Whitman
contributed $100,000.  Spreading the Wealth  Simmons, who gave $500,000 to the pro-Gingrich super-PAC,
also gave $100,000 to Restore Our Future. He and his Dallas-
based holding company, Contran Corp., have spread their money
around this political season, also giving $1 million to the
super-PAC supporting the presidential campaign of Texas Governor
Rick Perry, who dropped out of the race last month. In addition,
Simmons and Contran gave $12 million to American Crossroads, a
super-PAC advised by  Karl Rove , the top political aide to former
President  George W. Bush .  A super-PAC supporting Romney rival Ron Paul, a Texas
congressman, said it raised $2.4 million last month, with $1.7
million coming from Peter Thiel, the co-founder of PayPal Inc.,
now owned by San Jose, California-based  eBay Inc . The group,
Endorse Liberty, spent more than $2.9 million during the month
and ended up with $60,181 in cash.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Greg Giroux in Washington at 
 ggiroux@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  