-- PGS Surges on Oilfield Surveyor’s Demand: Oslo Mover
-- B y   S t e p h e n   T r e l o a r
-- 2012-02-22T08:51:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/pgs-surges-on-higher-prices-as-marine-contract-market-tightens-oslo-mover.html
Petroleum Geo-Services ASA (PGS) , the
world’s third-largest surveyor of oil and gas fields,  surged  the
most in four months in Oslo trading after it saw tightening in
the North Sea marine contract market, buoying sales.  Petroleum Geo-Services, or PGS, rose 9.2 percent to close
at 87.65 kroner, its highest since July 29, as fourth-quarter
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
beat analysts’ estimates. That was the  biggest  gain in the OBX
index, extending this year’s advance to 34 percent.  “We expect the North Sea marine contract market to be
tighter this year with higher prices being achieved,” Chief
Executive Officer Jon Erik Reinhardsen said in a statement.
“Market activity has increased significantly over the last
couple of months with bid activity close to early 2007 levels.”  Marine contracts are “what is important here and the
outlook for pricing,” Thomas Oerner, an analyst with RS Platou
Markets AS, said by phone. “The fact that multiclient sales are
so high could also give analysts room to increase their
estimates.”  PGS’s seismic studies estimate energy reserves in areas
including the  Gulf of Mexico  and the  North Sea . It sells some of
the data through non-exclusive, or multiclient, user licenses.  “PGS was pretty clear in their outlook and how they see
the market,” Oerner said. “The market has been waiting for
this sector to rebound for three years and we’re closer now than
we’ve ever been.”  EBITDA for the fourth quarter were $145 million, beating
the $127 million estimate of 17 analysts  surveyed  by Bloomberg.
It fell 11 percent from a year earlier. Net income for the
quarter of $5.5 million was hurt by a $9.6 million-impairment on
shares that the company is seeking to sell.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Treloar at 
 streloar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  