-- Philippine Peso Rises on China Easing, Greece Bailout Optimism
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2012-02-20T08:24:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/philippine-peso-rises-on-china-easing-greece-bailout-optimism.html
The  Philippine peso  advanced after
China relaxed lenders’ reserve requirements, supporting growth
in Asia’s biggest economy, and speculation heightened that
 Greece  will secure a second bailout. The government’s 10-year
bonds gained.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas expects sustained foreign-
currency inflows to support the peso and judges recent gains to
have been “broadly in line” with other currencies in the
region, Governor Amando Tetangco said on Feb. 18. Greece’s prime
minister,  Lucas Papademos , said on Feb. 18 his government had
identified the cuts necessary to lower spending by 325 million
euros ($429 million), helping fulfill the terms needed to obtain
financial aid from euro-area members.  “There’s some optimism in the works that Greece has been
able to come up with extra cost savings,” said Radhika Rao, an
economist at Forecast Pte in Singapore. “Plus there’s the
reserve-requirement cut by  China . All these are supporting the
peso.”  The peso appreciated 0.1 percent to 42.575 per dollar in
 Manila , contributing to a 3 percent advance for this year,
according to Tullett Prebon Plc.  The proportion of deposits that Chinese lenders must set
aside as reserves will fall half a percentage point from Feb.
24, the People’s Bank of China said Feb. 18 on its website.  The yield on the government’s 6.375 percent bonds due
January 2022 declined two basis points, or 0.02 percentage
point, to 5.05 percent, according to noon fixing prices from the
Philippine Dealing & Exchange Corp.  The Bureau of the Treasury will sell a minimum 15 billion
pesos ($352 million) each of 15- and 20-year retail bonds to
banks at tomorrow’s price-setting auction, Deputy Treasurer
Eduardo Mendiola said today. It has cancelled next week’s
auction of 10-year bonds, he said.  The sales will likely receive “high demand” given market
liquidity, Mendiola said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in  Singapore  at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Harvey at 
 sharvey6@bloomberg.net . 