-- Plastic Surgery Does ‘Turn Back the Clock’
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2012-02-20T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/plastic-surgery-really-does-turn-back-the-clock-study-finds.html
A face lift can make a person look
seven years younger, according to a study that asked volunteers
to guess the ages of patients who had cosmetic surgery.  Shown photos of 60 people who had the procedures, the
volunteers, composed of first-year medical students, estimated
the patients to be an average of 8.9 years younger than their
actual age, according to the study published online today in the
Archives of Facial Plastic Surgery. Before surgery, the medical
students perceived the patients to be 1.7 years younger,
yielding an age difference of 7.2 years after plastic surgery.  Americans spent almost $10.7 billion on cosmetic procedures
in 2010, according to the  American Society for Aesthetic Plastic
Surgery . The most common  surgeries  that year were breast
augmentation, at 318,123, liposuction, at 289,016, and
blepharoplasty, or eyelid surgery, at 152,123. The study offers
objective evidence of cosmetic surgery’s success and may help
doctors when counseling patients, researchers said.  “The goal of aesthetic facial surgery is to improve one’s
appearance and to ‘turn back the clock,’” wrote the study
authors, Nitin Chauhan and  Peter Adamson  of the  University of
Toronto  in Ontario, Canada, and Jeremy Warner of the  NorthShore
University Health System  in Evanston,  Illinois . “Our data
demonstrate a significant and consistent reduction in perceived
age after aesthetic facial surgery.”  The study today evaluated only facial cosmetic surgeries,
by showing photos to volunteers.  Patients in the study, mostly women, were 45 to 72 years.
Those who had the greatest number of procedures -- face- and
neck-lift, upper and lower eyelid surgery and forehead-lift --
had the biggest perceived difference from their actual age, the
researchers reported.  One of the authors, Adamson, is a medical consultant for
 Allergan Inc (AGN) . in  Canada . Allergan, based in  Irvine ,  California ,
sells the wrinkle therapy Botox, which generated $1.42 billion
in 2010 revenue.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  