-- Gordhan May Miss South Africa’s Deficit Target as Economic Growth Slows
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 2012-02-21T08:31:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/pravin-gordhan-may-miss-south-africa-deficit-target-as-growth-stumbles.html
South African Finance Minister
 Pravin Gordhan  may push back next year’s budget deficit target
for the second time in four months as economic growth fails to
meet projections and cuts into  tax revenue .  The government will probably forecast a shortfall of 5.4
percent of gross domestic product in the year through March 2013
in the budget tomorrow, according to the median estimate of 10
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Gordhan estimated a deficit of
5.2 percent in October.  South  Africa  is moving further away from a budget surplus
of four years ago as  Europe  heads into recession, slowing growth
in Africa’s biggest economy to less than 3 percent. That’s
crimping tax earnings at the same time the government ramps up
spending on rail and ports projects to boost exports.  Fitch
Ratings  and Moody’s Investors Service have cut the outlook on
South Africa’s credit rating to negative from stable in the past
three months.  “There is certainly a concern,”  Leon Myburgh , Citigroup
Inc.’s sub-Saharan Africa strategist, said in a phone interview
from Johannesburg. “We have seen a constant delay in bringing
the deficit down.”  Investors were more pessimistic about South African debt
than other  emerging markets  in the past six months. The cost to
protect the country’s debt against non-payment for five years
increased 43 basis points, or 0.43 percentage point, to 179 over
the period, according to data provider CMA. Mexico swaps dropped
19, while  Brazil  declined 27 and Russia gained 8 during the same
period.  Job Targets  President  Jacob Zuma  is under pressure from his labor union
allies and members of the  African National Congress  to boost
jobs as he bids for a second term to lead the ANC in a December
ruling party election. Zuma has pledged to create 5 million jobs
by 2020 in order to cut the  unemployment rate  to 14 percent. The
jobless rate of 23.9 percent is the highest of 61 nations
tracked by Bloomberg.  Gordhan is due to begin his budget speech at 2 p.m. in
Parliament in  Cape Town . In the mid-term statement, he raised
the estimated deficit for 2012-13 from 4.8 percent.  Zuma on Feb. 9 announced “massive” spending on rail and
ports infrastructure projects to revitalize the economy, adding
to state debt as the government borrows more. South African
Airways and South African National Roads Agency Ltd. are seeking
additional funds from the government to pay debts and fund
expansion plans.  Budget Slippage  The risk is that the government takes on some of these
costs, adding to spending and the deficit, said Andre Roux, head
of fixed income at Investec Asset Management,  South Africa ’s
biggest independent fund manager.  “My worry is that he has said for several years he is
going to bring down the deficit, Roux said. ‘‘There are so many
promises out there that if he allows slippage in this budget’’
that will be a concern for the market, he said.  Gordhan will probably cut his forecast for economic growth
this year to below 3 percent, less than half the 7 percent
expansion the government says is needed to meet its jobs target.
The  economy  expanded an annualized 1.4 percent in the third
quarter, close to a two-year low, as Zuma’s 39-billion rand
stimulus plan last year did little to spur the economy and
mining and manufacturing slumped.  Plans for a compulsory health insurance program over the
next 10 years may require the government to find savings to keep
the deficit in check. Gordhan has pledged to narrow the fiscal
deficit to 3.3 percent within three years and achieve a balanced
budget over time.  Ratings Outlook Cut  Fitch lowered the outlook on South Africa’s BBB+ rating to
negative from stable last month as government debt and
unemployment increased. Moody’s cut its outlook in November,
citing ‘‘heightened political risk.”  “It is clear that over the last 18 months there has been a
more relaxed view of a long-run deficit,” Peter Attard Montalto, an economist at Nomura Holdings Inc. in  London , said
in a phone interview. If  economic growth  slows to 2.3 percent
this year, the deficit may widen to 6 percent of GDP, he said.  Transnet SOC Ltd., the state-owned ports and freight-rail
operator, will spend 300 billion rand over seven years to expand
capacity of  iron ore , coal and manganese rail lines, Zuma said
this month. South African Airways is seeking 6 billion rand for
expansion, the Public Enterprises Ministry said on Feb. 16,
while Limpopo’s provincial government asked the government for
an extra 1 billion rand to pay salaries.  Gordhan may be forced to introduce new taxes on mining or
other industries to narrow the deficit,  Colen Garrow , an
economist at Brait SA in Johannesburg, said.  “I don’t see any other way out of it but to announce an
increase in taxation,” Garrow said. The ratings companies are
“a little edgy about the deterioration of the fiscal side.”  The currency has gained 5.3 percent this year, paring an 18
percent decline last year, the most of 16 major currencies
tracked by Bloomberg. It weakened 0.1 percent to 7.6836 against
the dollar by 10 a.m. in Johannesburg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  