-- Putin Calls for $772 Billion Upgrade to Rebuild Military
-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v   a n d   S t e p a n   K r a v c h e n k o
-- 2012-02-20T15:57:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/putin-calls-for-772-billion-upgrade-to-rebuild-russian-military.html
Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  said
 Russia  will spend 23 trillion rubles ($772 billion) over the
next decade to upgrade its military with the latest weaponry and
forge a “smart” defense system against new threats.  The outlays are “suitable to the country’s capabilities
and resources,” Putin said in an  article  published today in the
government’s Rossiiskaya Gazeta today, part of a series the
premier is publishing to lay out his campaign platform for the
March 4 presidential elections. “We shouldn’t tempt anyone with
our weakness.”  The spending spree will add hundreds of intercontinental
ballistic missiles, military satellites, warships and submarines
to the country’s arsenal over the next decade, according to
Putin. The buildup is needed to extend the military reach of the
world’s biggest country by area, countering conflicts near its
borders and the development of non-conventional, non-nuclear
weapons, he said.  Putin is backing a military overhaul initiated by his
successor, President  Dmitry Medvedev , after a five-day war with
 Georgia  in 2008 revealed the shortcomings in Russian technology.
Putin served as president from 2000 to 2008 and then moved to
the premiership to comply with constitutional  term limits .  The Candidate  “Putin is the only presidential candidate to articulate
Russian defense strategies,” Igor Korotchenko, head of the
 Defense Ministry ’s Civil Council, said by phone today. “The
military electorate including the army, veterans and defense
industry workers is about 10 million people -- after reading
this article, they’ll definitely see Putin as the candidate
they’ll vote for.”  Russia is ramping up spending after years of cutbacks in
the 1990s decimated the armed forces. The country’s military
spending has increased in ruble terms every year since 1998,
according to Stockholm International Peace Research Institute
 data . The Obama administration plans to trim U.S. defense
spending by 8.5 percent in the coming decade.  Former Finance Minister  Alexei Kudrin  clashed with Medvedev
in September and was dismissed after criticizing the arms spree
for creating “additional risks for both the budget and the
economy as a whole.”  “We aren’t talking about the militarization of Russia’s
budget,” Putin wrote, adding that the government is making up
for years of underfinancing the armed forces.  The importance of nuclear arms as a strategic deterrent
will soon begin to recede as cyber and space capabilities grow,
Putin said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net ;
Stepan Kravchenko in Moscow at 
 skravchenko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  