-- Quadra FNX Shareholders Approve Bid Giving KGHM Global Reach
-- B y   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z   a n d   P a w e l   K o z l o w s k i
-- 2012-02-20T19:49:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/quadra-fnx-shareholders-approve-bid-giving-kghm-global-reach-1-.html
Quadra FNX Mining Ltd. (QUX)  shareholders
approved a C$2.87 billion ($2.9 billion) takeover by  KGHM Polska
Miedz SA (KGH) , in the nation’s biggest bid abroad designed to deepen
the Polish copper producer’s global reach.  Quadra shareholders cast 78.58 percent of shares in favor
of the deal, the Canadian company said today at an extraordinary
meeting in  Vancouver .  The takeover by the Lubin, Poland-based company, with
 Europe ’s largest mine output, is “attractive,” Quadra Chief
Executive Officer Paul Blythe told Polish daily Rzeczpospolita
on Feb. 16. Institutional Shareholder Services, which advises
pension and mutual funds on proposals in shareholder meetings,
backed the bid, Quadra said on Feb. 6.  “This is the first spectacular takeover deal by a Polish
company and it’s being noticed,” said  Leszek Iwaszko , a Warsaw-
based analyst at Societe Generale SA. “KGHM still has a long
way to go to join the world’s premier league, but this purchase
will help it become a global player.”  Companies from Poland, the biggest post-communist country
in the European Union, have stepped up expansion plans in the
last decade, fighting for supremacy in central Europe. PKN Orlen
SA bought Czech and Lithuanian refiners,  Asseco Poland SA (ACP) 
acquired software developers in most countries in the region,
while Rovese SA, Poland’s largest ceramic tile producer,
expanded into Romania, Ukraine and  Russia .  ‘Huge Deal’  Vancouver-based Quadra is KGHM’s second Canadian
transaction since 2010 after the company bought a stake in a
joint venture with Abacus Mining & Exploration Corp. for $37
million. KGHM, which is buying miners outside Poland to cut
production costs and raise output, will pay cash for Quadra as
it is set to report a record 11.2 billion zloty ($3.56 billion)
in net income for 2011.  KGHM shares climbed 0.7 percent today in Warsaw, extending
their advance to 13.3 percent since Quadra’s deal was announced
on Dec. 6 and valuing the Polish company at 27.7 billion zloty.  “It’s a huge deal for KGHM,” Tomasz Krukowski, a Warsaw-
based analyst at Deutsche Bank AG said by phone. “We won’t
probably see more transactions of this size as KGHM now needs to
focus on efficient management of its purchased assets.”  KGHM may seek further purchases outside Poland, Chief
Executive Officer  Herbert Wirth  told Dziennik Gazeta Prawna on
Dec. 27. It is looking for companies in  South Africa , Namibia
and Botswana and does not rule out the purchase of copper
reserves in  Canada , the newspaper reported.  Quadra was created in 2010 when Quadra Mining Ltd. acquired
FNX Mining Co. for about C$1 billion. The company owns the
Robinson mine in Nevada, Carlota in Arizona, Franke in Chile and
the Morrison and Podolsky operations in Canada’s Sudbury basin.  Copper Output  Its purchase will help KGHM raise annual copper output from
its own deposits by 50 percent to 635,000 tons by 2018. KGHM
estimates it will have 37.4 million tons of copper in deposits,
more than BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s biggest mining company,
or Anglo American Plc after the acquisition, according to a
presentation on its website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maciej Martewicz in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net ;
Pawel Kozlowski in Warsaw at 
 pkozlowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  