-- Rand Gains for Second Day as Metals Rally on China Reserve Cut for Banks
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d   a n d   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-02-20T16:10:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/rand-gains-for-second-day-as-metals-rally-on-china-reserve-cut-for-banks.html
The rand strengthened for a second
day and yields on  South Africa ’s nine-year bonds reached the
lowest in two weeks after metal prices advanced as  China  eased
 reserve requirements , boosting export prospects for the world’s
largest producer of platinum.  South Africa’s currency appreciated as much as 1.3 percent
and traded 0.9 percent stronger at 7.6733 as of 4:43 p.m. in
Johannesburg. It gained 0.1 percent to 10.1683 against the euro.
Bonds climbed for a second day and the cost of insuring the
nation’s debt fell to a 3 1/2-month low.  The rand and bonds benefited as China, South Africa’s
biggest single trading partner, said the proportion of cash that
lenders must set aside will fall half a percentage point from
Feb. 24, the second reduction in three months to sustain growth.
South Africa, which also has the world’s largest reserves of
manganese and chrome, derived 64 percent of exports from
commodities in 2011, according to government data.  “When one of South Africa’s biggest sources of demand for
resource-related exports is looking to protect its strong growth
rate this must be positive for the rand,”  George Glynos , an
analyst at ETM Analytics in Johannesburg, said in e-mailed
comments. “Any effort to bolster growth will be supportive of
the rand.”  Standard & Poor’s GSCI  index  of commodity prices rose for a
third day to its highest in more than six months as the prices
of metals including platinum, copper and nickel gained.  Risk Appetite  “With risk very much back on, the rand is likely to extend
its gains in the short term,” Nomvuyo Guma, a currency
strategist at Standard Bank Group Ltd. in Johannesburg, said in
e-mailed comments.  Credit default swaps for South Africa’s dollar-denominated
sovereign bonds fell 5.3 basis points to 172.4 today, according
to data compiled by CMA, a unit of CME Group Inc. The contracts,
which drop as perceptions of creditworthiness improve, traded
below default swaps from higher-rated  France  and  Israel  at 180.9
and 187.2, respectively.  South African bonds gained ahead of consumer data and
Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan ’s budget speech, both due on
Feb. 22. The consumer inflation rate probably rose 6.2 percent
in January, according to the median estimate of nine economists
in a Bloomberg survey. The central bank aims to keep inflation
below 6 percent.  Transnet SOC Ltd., South Africa’s state-owned ports and
freight-rail operator, will raise as much as 100 billion rand
($13 billion) of planned capital expenditure in domestic and
international bond markets, Chief Executive Officer Brian Molefe
said today. The expenditure is part of a 300 billion rand
infrastructure plan announced by President  Jacob Zuma  on Feb. 9.  Bonds  The yield on South Africa’s 77 billion rand of 6.75 percent
bonds due 2021 dropped three basis points, or 0.03 percentage
point, to 7.78 percent, the lowest on a closing basis since Feb.
7.  “The major focus for bonds in the week ahead will be the
January CPI data and Finance Minister Gordhan’s budget speech,”
Glynos said. “Players will be keeping an eye on how the
government intends to finance the R300 billion worth of
infrastructure.”  The nation’s $1.5 billion of 4.665 percent bonds due 2024
gained the most in a week, driving the yield down 6.6 basis
points to 4.23 percent. The extra yield investors demand to hold
the bonds rather than U.S. Treasuries of similar maturity
narrowed six basis points to 2.24 percentage points. The spread
has narrowed from 2.7 percentage points when the bonds were
first sold on Jan. 17.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net 
Stephen Gunnion at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  