-- Transocean Declines Most in Two Months on Dividend: Zurich Mover
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2012-02-20T16:59:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/transocean-declines-most-in-two-months-on-dividend-zurich-mover.html
Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , the world’s biggest
operator of offshore drilling rigs, fell the most in two months
in Zurich trading after saying it won’t recommend a dividend
payment at its 2012 annual shareholder meeting.  The company, based in Vernier,  Switzerland , declined by 5.1
percent in Zurich, the biggest drop since Dec. 14. It also plans
to book a charge on a “substantial” portion of the goodwill on
its contract drilling services reporting unit. The total
goodwill associated with the unit was about $8 billion.  “For a short time Transocean was a relatively high
dividend yield play for some investors, which now will
disappear,” said Martin Schreiber, an analyst at Zuercher
Kantonalbank AG in Zurich. “The amount of the impairment is not
known for the time being but if it’s markedly above $1 billion,
it’s likely to lead to some additional pressure on the stock.”  Transocean slid 2.35 Swiss francs to 43.57 francs by the
close in Zurich, eroding its gain for the year to 20 percent.  Transocean owned a rig that exploded in the  Gulf of Mexico 
in April 2010, killing 11 workers and spewing crude for 87 days
in the worst spill in the U.S. The country’s  Justice Department 
sued Transocean, BP Plc, the operator of the Macondo well
drilled by the rig, and partners Anadarko Petroleum Corp. and
Mitsui & Co.’s MOEX Offshore 2007 LLC seeking fines for
pollution, with a trial set for Feb. 27.  Some industry analysts forecast BP and other parties in the
litigation may reach a settlement after Mitsui’s unit agreed
last week to pay at least $90 million to the U.S. and five
states for pollution claims.  Investor Speculation  “Investors’ reaction to the news is to sell the shares as
the market may now speculate on the reason for not paying out a
dividend, for example that Transocean either struck a deal with
BP or that they are about to receive a fine,” said Anders Bergland, head of equity research at RS Platou Markets AS in
Oslo. “In addition, they fear the impairment charge may
jeopardize its investment grade rating. We still believe there’s
significant value in the company, but the management does not
provide the visibility to support those values.”  The company has rallied this year as oil gained on signs of
an improving U.S. economy and progress on a bailout for  Greece .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  