-- Transistor Made Using a Single Atom May Help Beat Moore’s Law
-- B y   R e g   G a l e
-- 2012-02-20T00:16:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/transistor-made-using-a-single-atom-in-australia-may-help-beat-moore-s-law.html
Scientists have taken an early
step toward surpassing the limits of a technological principle
called Moore’s Law by creating a working transistor using a
single phosphorus atom.  The atom was etched into a silicon bed with “gates” to
control electrical flow and metallic contacts to apply voltage,
researchers reported in the journal  Nature Nanotechnology . It is
the first such device to be precisely positioned using a
repeatable technology, they said, and may one day help ease the
way toward creation of a so-called quantum computer that would
be significantly smaller and faster than existing technology.  Moore’s law states that the number of transistors that can
be placed on an integrated circuit doubles every 18 months to
two years, and it’s predicted to reach its limit with existing
technology in 2020. Cutting the size of a transistor to a single
atom may defeat that concept.  “We really decided 10 years ago to start this program to
try and make single-atom devices as fast as we could, and beat
that law,” said  Michelle Simmons , director of ARC Center for
Quantum Computation and Communication Technology at the
University of New South Wales,  Australia . “So here we are in
2012, and we’ve made a single-atom transistor roughly 8 to 10
years ahead of where the industry is going to be.”  Moore’s Law is named for Gordon Moore, the co-founder of
 Santa Clara , California-based  Intel Corp ., the world’s largest
chipmaker. He first described the phenomenon in a 1965 report
that was later cited by others with his name attached to it.  Finding Limitation  There is a limitation to the latest finding: The atom must
be kept at minus-391 degrees Fahrenheit to keep it from
migrating out of its channel, the report said. Because of this,
the result should be seen as a proof of principle rather than an
initial step in a manufacturing process, the researchers said.  “These results demonstrate that single-atom devices can in
principle be built and controlled with atomically thin wires,
where the active component represents the ultimate physical
limit of Moore’s Law,” the researchers wrote in the report.  Simmons’s group, which included scientists from the
 University of Melbourne  and from  Purdue University  in  West
Lafayette ,  Indiana , isn’t the first to create a single-atom
transistor. Previous efforts, though, came about as the result
of chance and carried a significant margin of error, the
researchers said.  The New South Wales scientists used a device called a
scanning tunneling microscope to manipulate the atoms on the
surface of the crystal in a way that allowed them to precisely
pair one up with the electrode needed to control it.  ‘Lots’ of Atoms  “If you want to make a practical computer in the long term,
you need to be able to put lots of individual atoms in,”
Simmons said in a video supplied by the university.  “And there
you find that the separation of the atoms is quite critical.”  So-called quantum computers would operate by controlling
the movement of electrons in an atom. While the latest finding
brings science closer to determining whether quantum computing
may be successful at a large-scale level, it remains an open
question.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Reg Gale in  New York  at 
 Rgale5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reg Gale in New York at 
 Rgale5@bloomberg.net . 