-- Record Bank Bonds Fueling Lending Ease Slump Risk: Turkey Credit
-- B y   S i b e l   A k b a y
-- 2012-02-21T17:46:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/record-bank-bonds-spur-loan-growth-easing-risk-of-recession-turkey-credit.html
Turkish banks  are increasing bond
sales to a record this year, helping to sustain the growth in
lending that’s keeping the economy out of recession.  Just two years ago, banks didn’t sell any bonds. So far in
2012, they’ve issued the equivalent of $4 billion, four times
the amount a year ago, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Akbank
TAS (AKBNK) , the biggest by market value, said Feb. 17 it plans to raise
the equivalent of as much as $1.5 billion of foreign bonds,
triple its single sale in 2011.  Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS (GARAN) , the
No. 2 lender, issued 1 billion liras ($600 million) of local
bonds last month yielding 11 percent.  Central Bank of the Republic of Turkey Governor Erdem Basci, 45, had sought to limit bank credit as recently as two
months ago as a record 40 percent growth in lending fueled the
world’s second fastest economic growth after  China  and fanned
inflation and the trade deficit. Concern since January switched
to averting a recession. Basci said Jan. 31 he’s now
“comfortable” with the pace of lending, which he expects to be
about 15 percent for 2012, adjusted for currency variables.  “The central bank wants this market to develop,” Selim Gulkan, a fixed-income trader at Turk Ekonomi Bankasi AS, a unit
of BNP Paribas SA, said by telephone from his office in Istanbul
yesterday. “If the market situation was very volatile, the
private sector wouldn’t be able to do this kind of borrowing.”  Rate Cuts  Yields on benchmark two-year lira bonds fell 14 basis
points, or 0.14 percentage point, to 9 percent, the lowest
since October, after the central bank unexpectedly cut its
highest lending rates by one percentage point to 11.5 percent.
The lira weakened 0.3 percent to 1.7482 against the dollar at
6:40 p.m. in Istanbul.  Yapi & Kredi Bankasi AS (YKBNK) , a partnership between  UniCredit
SpA (UCG)  of  Italy  and Turkey’s  Koc Holding AS (KCHOL) , was the last Turkish
bank to sell debt on the international markets, issuing $500
million of five-year bonds on Feb. 1 to yield 6.86 percent in
the first day of trading. The yield fell 2 basis points to 6.63
percent today, the lowest since the sale, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Akbank’s borrowing plan follows a sale of 650 million liras
of 178-day and three-year lira debt on Jan. 19 at an 11.6
percent yield. The yield on the 178-day debt was 60 basis points
greater than on Garanti’s 178-day bonds sold a week later, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Istanbul-based Akbank, which is 20 percent owned by
 Citigroup Inc. (C) , hired UBS AG and Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc to arrange investor meetings in Switzerland after getting
regulatory approval to sell the $1.5 billion of bonds, the bank
said in a Feb. 17 statement.  Akbank Offers  Akbank will borrow more from abroad this year in bonds and
syndicated loans to help finance lending to small and medium-
sized businesses, Chief Executive Officer Sabri Hakan Binbasgil
told reporters in Istanbul on Feb. 7. That will help expand
Akbank’s loan book “a few percentage points” faster than the
average of 15 percent this year, he said.  Garanti has applied to sell 5 billion liras of bonds this
year in “different maturities and spreads,” Oben Savas, the
bank’s head of corporate investment in Istanbul, said in an e-
mailed response to questions yesterday.  Garanti will expand loans by about 20 percent in 2012,
helped by “privileged access to alternative funding sources,”
the bank said in a report on Jan. 13.  Akbank and Garanti’s bonds are rated Ba1 by Moody’s
Investors Service, one step below investment grade, and BBB- by
 Fitch Ratings , the lowest investment-grade ranking.  Lagging Russia  Turkey ’s market for bonds issued by banks in local and
foreign currencies totals $10 billion, less than half the $25
billion from  Russian lenders  and $34.5 billion for  South
Africa (JBNKS) ’s while topping the $3.5 billion from  Polish banks , data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The Turkish bond market has a lot of scope for
development,” Ercan Uysal, head of research at the Turkish unit
of South  Africa ’s Standard Bank Group Ltd., said in a phone
interview from Istanbul on Feb. 17. “It’s very small at the
moment and volume will definitely increase.”  Loan growth last year contributed to the  current account
deficit  widening to a record 10 percent of economic output,
prompting the central bank to raise  interest rates  to the upper
end of a corridor between the  benchmark one-week repurchasing
rate  of 5.75 percent and the overnight lending rate of 12.5
percent.  Basci reversed that policy last month, lending mostly at
the lower rate, after economists from banks including New York-
based Bank of America Merrill Lynch and Goldman Sachs Group
Inc., pointing to the record deficit, warned that the nation’s
 growth rate  threatened to send the economy off the rails. He
reduced the upper lending rate to a maximum of 11.5 percent
today.  Growth Target  More bond sales financing loan expansion would support the
goal of Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan, 57, to grow
Turkey’s $735 billion economy by 4 percent this year. Economists
currently expect the rate of expansion to slow to 2.7 percent in
2012, according to the median of seven estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  Basci has advocated increasing local bond sales to help
reduce companies’ reliance on syndicated loans in foreign
currencies. Dependence on foreign-currency borrowing means the
economy is partly dollarized and the central bank needs to play
more of a role in managing the exchange rate, Basci said in an
interview with Istanbul-based  Bloomberg HT  television at the
 World Economic Forum  in Davos,  Switzerland  on Jan. 29.  First Bonds  The  Banking Regulation and Supervision Agency  kick started
the market for local bonds in 2010 by permitting lenders to have
as much as 51 billion liras ($29 billion) of total debt
outstanding at any one time. There is no limit for foreign bond
sales. The regulator’s decision Feb. 10 to allow banks to add
half of the bonds they issue to their liquidity adequacy ratio
may encourage more bond sales.  Banks’ local bonds help fund managers provide additional
yields over Turkish Treasuries,” Elif Cengiz, a deputy general
manager at investment firm Is Portfolio Management, said in a
phone interview on Feb. 17. “The only problem is lack of
liquidity in the secondary market though this situation will
improve as the sales increase.”  Bondholder demand is improving after the lira had the
third-best currency rally in  Europe , the  Middle East  and Africa
this year. The exchange rate’s 7.8 percent advance trailed only
the forint’s 11 percent gain and the zloty’s 8.8 percent
appreciation in 2012.  Yields Fall  The lira’s rally helped send  yields  down from 11.48 percent
at the end of last year, according to a Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc  index  of the securities.  The  extra yield  investors demand to hold Turkey’s dollar-
denominated bonds rather than U.S. Treasuries declined 44 basis
points to 341 since the end of 2011, JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI
Global index shows. Serbia, whose debt carries the same BB
rating from  Standard & Poor’s  as Turkey, had a spread of 568
basis points yesterday, 33 basis lower than the end of last
year.  Turkish credit-default swaps traded at 251 basis points
today in Istanbul, compared with a spread of 208 for  Russia ,
rated three levels higher by S&P, and 212.5 for Poland, rated
five levels higher, according to CMA, which is owned by CME
Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately-negotiated market.  As of last week, Turkish default swaps cost 29 basis points
less than the average for countries in central and eastern
Europe, the Middle East and Africa included in the Markit iTraxx
SovX CEEMEA Index. The contracts pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a government or company fail to adhere to its debt
agreements.  Deposit Growth Slower  Banks are stepping up borrowing after their deposits grew
at about half the pace of loans last year, according to 2011
earnings published by lenders including Akbank and Garanti this
month. Akbank’s deposits grew 14 percent to 76.8 billion liras,
lagging loan growth of 33 percent to 70.2 billion liras.
Garanti’s deposits expanded 16 percent compared with the 30
percent pace of its loan growth.  Total lending by banks grew by an average 30 percent last
year and an annual 39 percent in the year to August, according
to data published by the banking regulator yesterday.  Turkiye Is Bankasi (ISATR)  AS, the biggest bank in Turkey by
assets, has $500 million of five-year bonds maturing in February
2016 yielding 5.15 percent, declining 4 basis points today,
compared with 5.2 percent at issue, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. The Istanbul-based lender last sold 1 billion liras of
six-month bonds on Jan. 24 at a yield of 11.46 percent.  Turkey’s expanding bond market is helping spur economic
growth and its significance will increase in the coming years,
said Mine Kumcuoglu, a director at  Anadolu Hayat Emeklilik AS (ANHYT) ,
the country’s biggest provider of life insurance and pensions
that manages more than $3.3 billion.  “After the negative market conditions of 2011, we actually
started 2012 much better -- there’s a decreasing trend in
interest rates and everything’s more stable,” she said in a
phone interview from Istanbul.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sibel Akbay in Istanbul at 
 aeksin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
Riad Hamade at 
 rhamade@bloomberg.net  