-- Robusta Coffee Premium Vanishes as Vietnamese Sales May Rise
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-02-20T17:04:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/robusta-coffee-premium-vanishes-as-vietnamese-sales-may-rise-1-.html
Robusta coffee for March delivery
erased its premium to the May contract on speculation farmers in
 Vietnam , the world’s biggest grower of the variety, will
accelerate sales to take advantage of higher prices.  March-delivery beans and the May robusta contract both
traded at $1,978 a metric ton by 4:47 p.m. on NYSE Liffe in
 London , data compiled by Bloomberg showed. March robusta reached
a record-high premium of $208 a metric ton on Feb. 15, according
to the figures.  “Origin hedging has been evident in the current rally as
growers and exporters take advantage of high futures prices to
lock in margins,” Keith Flury, an analyst at Rabobank
International in London, said in a report e-mailed today.  Robusta jumped 14 percent in the two weeks before this week
as supplies from Vietnam were lower than first estimated.
Shipments of 6.2 million bags from October to January were down
25 percent from a year earlier, Rabobank said. They plunged 48
percent in January alone, according to government data.  Robusta may fall further in the second and third quarters,
Rabobank said, citing expectations of improved supplies from
Vietnam and  Indonesia . Vietnam is set to harvest a record 21.5
million bags in the 2011-12 crop year, the bank estimates. The
harvest in Indonesia, the third-biggest robusta grower, usually
starts in April.  “Further origin selling is anticipated in the coming
months, and this hedging pressure will likely occur without the
short-covering that has been supportive, implying prices will
correct lower,” Flury said. Short-covering denotes purchases
made to close out bets on lower prices.  A bag of coffee weighs 60 kilograms (132 pounds).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 