-- Romney and Santorum to Vie for Advantage in Debate in Arizona Tonight
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r   a n d   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-02-22T20:57:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/romney-focuses-on-economy-while-stumping-for-votes-cash-in-ohio.html
Mitt Romney  called for a 20 percent
across-the-board cut in individual income tax rates today as
part of an effort by his campaign to turn the focus of the
Republican presidential primaries back to economic issues.  Romney’s plan would lower the top tax rate to 28 percent
for individuals from 35 percent now, cut corporate taxes to 25
percent from 35 percent, eliminate the estate tax and scrap the
alternative minimum tax. It also would limit the deductions,
exemptions and credits that are currently available to higher-
income Americans.  “We are going to cut back on that so we make sure the top
1 percent keeps paying, paying the current share they’re paying
or more,” Romney told a campaign rally in Chandler,  Arizona .
“We want middle-income Americans to be the place we focus our
help, because it’s middle-income Americans that have been hurt
by this Obama economy.”  The campaign hasn’t specified how deductions and other tax
breaks for high-income taxpayers would be limited. The top tax
rates on capital gains and dividends would remain at 15 percent.  The plan wouldn’t cost any more than would extending the
Bush-era tax rates that expire at the end of 2012,  Glenn Hubbard , a Romney economic adviser, told reporters on a
conference call today. That assertion of revenue neutrality uses
a different definition than the one that nonpartisan
congressional scorekeepers would use.  Stronger Growth  The campaign assumes that some of the revenue will come
from stronger economic growth, not solely from eliminating or
curtailing tax breaks. Hubbard didn’t specify how much of the
offsetting revenue would come from growth.  To offset the cuts and reduce the federal  budget deficit ,
Romney said he’d trim $500 billion in spending by 2016.  He’s working to regain momentum in the race as he strives
to take back his front-runner status from  Rick Santorum  before
the Feb. 28 Michigan and Arizona primaries.  As Santorum has surged, social issues have become a central
topic in the race. By releasing his proposal today, hours before
a potentially crucial televised debate tonight in Mesa, Arizona,
Romney is seeking to return the conversation to the economy and
his business background.  ‘Welcome to the Party’  Santorum said today Romney was seeking to cut taxes to
levels he has already proposed.  “Welcome to the party, governor, it’s great to have you
along,” Santorum said at a Tea Party rally in Tucson.  Statewide polls show a close contest in  Michigan (BEESMI)  and that
Santorum, a former senator from  Pennsylvania , is narrowing
Romney’s edge in  Arizona (BEESAZ) . A Romney loss in Michigan, his boyhood
home, would deal a severe blow to his campaign.  Romney’s announcement also comes as President  Barack Obama 
called for cutting the U.S. corporate tax rate to 28 percent.
Obama’s plan would remove tax breaks for companies to help
offset lost revenue and make other structural changes to the  tax
code , including limits on the deductibility of interest.  Speaking in Arizona this morning, Romney said Obama’s plan
would raise taxes on small businesses that pay personal income
tax rates rather than corporate taxes. Many small businesses --
and some large ones -- pay taxes on their profits on their
individual tax returns.  “President Obama’s plan is to raise taxes on those
enterprises,” he told voters gathered in a high school gym.
“My plan is to lower them by 20 percent.”  September Plan  Reducing the top corporate tax rate to 25 percent was a
central point of an economic proposal Romney offered in
September. The former  Massachusetts  governor’s plan, which would
eliminate taxes on interest, dividends and  capital gains  for
individuals making $200,000 or less per year, had come under
criticism over a lack of details.  Tonight’s debate on  CNN  -- which will include former U.S.
House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  and U.S. Representative  Ron Paul  of
 Texas  -- will be the last direct exchange among the candidates
scheduled before Super Tuesday on March 6, when 11 states hold
contests that should play a major role in determining who
secures the Republican nomination.  For Santorum, 53, it is a chance to reintroduce himself to
voters who may have written off his candidacy weeks ago when he
was lagging in polls and fundraising. Romney, 64, is trying to
reinvigorate his bid and reiterate his campaign theme that he’s
a strong and steady executive best positioned to defeat Obama in
November’s election.  Gingrich, Paul  Gingrich, 68, is pressing for the type of strong debate
performance that periodically has boosted his candidacy and that
he needs now to gain some momentum heading into Super Tuesday.
Paul, 76, also will be looking ahead to the March 6 contests,
which include caucuses that give supporters attracted by his
libertarian agenda stressing a limited federal government their
best chance of accruing convention delegates.  The importance of the  Michigan  primary is underscored by
escalating advertising by political action committees aligned
with Santorum or Romney.  A new commercial being aired in Michigan by the Red White
and Blue Fund, a super-PAC supporting Santorum, charges that
Romney increased spending, taxes and fees as governor of
Massachusetts and implemented a “blueprint” for the U.S.
health-care law.  “How can Mitt Romney beat Barack Obama when, on the vital
decisions, they’re not much different?” a narrator asks.  Michigan Ad Buy  The group, which can raise and spend unlimited amounts on
Santorum’s behalf, purchased an additional $600,000 in
commercial time in Michigan, spokesman Stuart Roy said
yesterday. That brings the super-PAC’s total expenditures on the
state’s airwaves to boost Santorum to about $1.3 million, he
said.  Restore our Future, the pro-Romney super-PAC, also began
airing new negative ads yesterday in Michigan, according to New
York-based Kantar Media’s CMAG, which tracks advertising.  The commercial attacks Santorum for voting during his time
in Congress to raise the federal debt-ceiling and for securing
federal funds for parochial spending projects known as earmarks.
It also criticizes Santorum’s 2002 Senate vote to authorize ex-
convicts to vote in federal elections.  Romney’s campaign and Restore Our Future spent $810,980 on
broadcast television ads in Michigan as of Feb. 18, compared
with what was then $262,260 by Santorum’s campaign and Red White
and Blue Fund, CMAG data show.  ‘Radical Islamists’  Santorum, in remarks yesterday at a party luncheon in
Phoenix, highlighted what he termed “a track record of cutting
spending and taking on the big entitlements,” of fighting
“radical Islamists” and “of standing up for the basic
foundational pillars of our society: faith and family.”  He drew implicit contrasts with Romney and Gingrich,
calling himself an “authentic conservative” and saying: “I’m
not a manager. I’m not a visionary. I’m a guy from a steel town
who grew up understanding what made this country great.”  At a rally last night in Phoenix, Santorum indirectly
responded to a fresh focus on a 2008 speech he gave in which he
said Satan was targeting America.  “I’ll defend everything I’ll say, because it comes from
here,” Santorum said, pointing to his heart. He compared his
sometimes strong language to when  Ronald Reagan , during his
presidency, branded the former  Soviet Union  as an “evil
empire” and was criticized for doing so.  Running-Mate Promise  Romney yesterday touted his commitment to socially
conservative principles such as opposing abortion rights.  “My vice presidential nominee will be pro-life,” he told
voters in Shelby Township, Michigan, when asked about his
running-mate. “If I’m fortunate enough to become the nominee, I
will also choose someone who is conservative to the core.”  In Michigan, where Romney’s father served as governor,
Santorum’s support rose after he swept contests in Colorado,
Minnesota and  Missouri  on Feb. 7 -- victories that also spurred
the increase in his national backing.  Polls  in the last few days
in Michigan have shown a neck-and-neck race between the two.  In Arizona, Romney leads Santorum by 36 percent to 32
percent, according to a CNN/Time/ORC poll. The  Feb. 17-20 survey 
of likely voters in the Republican primary has an error margin
of plus-or-minus 4.5 percentage points. Most other recent polls
showed Romney with a larger lead.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net ;
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  