-- Bakries Seek to Add Tan as Bumi Chairman, Replace Rothschild
-- B y   F i t r i   W u l a n d a r i   a n d   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2012-02-20T12:32:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/rothschild-likely-to-remain-on-bumi-plc-board-bakrie-group-says.html
Nathaniel Rothschild , the
billionaire founder of  Bumi Plc (BUMI) , may be deposed as co-chairman
of the company while retaining a seat on the board, according to
the joint largest  shareholder  of the Indonesian coal producer.  Samin Tan, president director of Indonesian coal supplier
PT Borneo Lumbung Energi & Metal, will be nominated as chairman
at a March 26 board meeting, Bakrie Group spokesman Chris Fong
said in an interview in Jakarta today. The Bakrie Group and
Tan’s Borneo Lumbung jointly own 47.6 percent of London-listed
Bumi, and have  voting rights  over 29.9 percent.  Rothschild founded Bumi last year after striking a $3
billion deal in 2010 with two Indonesian coal companies
including PT Bumi Resources, which was controlled by the Bakrie
family. He said last month that relations with co-chairman Indra
Bakrie had improved after he previously criticized the family’s
PT Bumi Resources.  The only son of U.K. financier  Jacob Rothschild  raised
707.2 million pounds ($1.1 billion) with former Anglo American
Plc executive  James Campbell  in July 2010 with a plan to buy a
mining asset for as much as $5 billion. A spokesman for
Rothschild said Feb. 10 the move by Borneo and the Bakries had
been “disastrous for  shareholder  value” and urged them to
“see sense and stop damaging the company.”  ‘Excellent Meeting’  Rothschild said today that Tan and the PT Borneo team had
“made a made a great impression during their visit to London
last week” in what was an “excellent meeting,” according to
an e-mailed statement.  The addition of Tan to the board was “in line with the
relationship agreement between Bumi Plc and Bakrie Borneo and I
think the introduction of PT Borneo management can only be
viewed as a positive,” Rothschild said.  London-listed Bumi said on Feb. 3 that shareholder Borneo
Bumi Energi & Metal, the venture jointly owned by Bakrie Group
and Tan’s Borneo Lumbung, had called an extraordinary general
meeting to seek the removal of Rothschild and Chief Executive
Officer Ari Hudaya.  “The Independent Directors have provided a solution that
we hope resolves any uncertainties so we can move forward,” the
Bakrie Group’s Fong said, highlighting the prospect of further
announcements on the issue. “For us it’s important about how
we’re perceived. We want to be perceived correctly.”  As well as proposing to appoint Tan as  chairman , Borneo
Bumi said it was seeking to appoint Nalinkant Amratlal Rathod as
CEO and Scott Merrillees as chief financial officer to replace
Andrew Beckham. On Feb. 14 Borneo Bumi said it had dropped a
proposal for an EGM in favor of using a March 26 board meeting
to raise its proposals.  ‘Different Way’  “We are still getting what we want,” Fong said today.
“It’s just being approached in a different way. We expect that
these nominations will be accepted” at the board meeting.  A spokesman for Bumi declined to comment. Bumi fell 0.8
percent to 742 pence at 11:27 a.m. in London trading.  “We also expect that Nat will remain on the board,”
though his future role with the company will be for him and Tan
to decide, Fong said. “It’s not about Nat. It’s about a board
100 percent focused on the asset.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fitri Wulandari in Jakarta at 
 fwulandari@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Riseborough in  London  at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  