-- Russian Oil Boom’s End Means Lower Tax That Risks Unrest: Energy
-- B y   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n
-- 2012-02-20T14:02:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/russian-oil-boom-s-end-means-lower-tax-that-risks-unrest-energy.html
Russia’s 12-year oil boom is nearing
its peak, forcing the next president to decide whether to cut
taxes and revive production or use the windfall from $100 oil to
boost public spending and quell mounting unrest.  As Vladimir Putin campaigns for a second stint in the
Kremlin, the nation’s existing fields are losing pressure and
oil companies OAO Rosneft, OAO Lukoil and  TNK-BP (BP/)  say production
taxes give little incentive to invest. Since Putin first became
president in 2000, crude output has grown 57 percent to 10
million barrels a day, surpassing  Saudi Arabia  and flooding the
state treasury.  “The cream has been skimmed off the top,” said  Leonid Fedun , the billionaire deputy chief executive officer of Lukoil,
Russia’s second-largest oil company. “Further steps require
taxes based on different principles,” or production will start
falling within three years, he said.  Any cuts in the oil and gas industry’s 5.64 trillion rubles
($190 billion) in taxes mean less cash to combat the biggest
anti-government protests since the 1990s. Deputy Energy Minister
Sergey Kudryashov said Feb. 2 the need to strike a balance
between revenue and oil output levels is one of the most
difficult questions facing the state.  “Being the world’s largest energy producer keeps  Russia  at
the top table of global politics, that’s why it is non-
negotiable,”  Chris Weafer , chief strategist at Moscow-based
investment bank Troika Dialog, said in a phone interview.
“While a lot of rhetoric will be about reform and
diversification, maintaining oil output is so important that it
doesn’t have to be stated.”  Opinion Polls  Putin, seeking a return to the presidency in March 4
elections, leads polls with about 55 percent voter support,
according to a survey of 1,600 voters by the All-Russian Center
for the Study of  Public Opinion . Communist leader  Gennady Zyuganov  polled 9 percent and  Vladimir Zhirinovsky  of the
nationalist Liberal Democrat Party 8 percent.  The oil and gas industry accounted for almost 50 percent of
the state’s income in 2011, and Rosneft’s tax bill last year ran
to about half its $92 billion revenue.  Russia’s Soviet-era Siberian fields are maturing, and
producers face eroding profitability related to the higher cost
of maintaining output. Crude extraction in the Khanty Mansiysk
region of western Siberia, which began in 1964 and now
contributes roughly half of Russia’s oil, fell 1.7 percent in
2010, according to the regional government’s  website .  Declining Prospects  The prospect of decline can be seen on the Moscow stock
exchange. Rosneft, the state-controlled company that’s the
biggest oil producer, dropped 17 percent in Moscow trading over
the past year, a time when crude prices gained by 13 percent to
about $120 a barrel.  The Moscow-based company was downgraded at  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS) , Citigroup Inc., Deutsche Bank AG and Troika Dialog
this year on concern capital spending is rising on fields and
refineries as production stalls.  “We have difficulty finding catalysts for the stocks amid
elevated capex levels,” analysts at Troika said. Lukoil slid
4.3 percent during the past year, while TNK-BP gained 3.2
percent.  Oil producers want tax breaks to boost returns from
bringing new fields online and spending on existing deposits.
Rosneft has pushed for tax breaks before deciding to develop the
Yurubcheno-Takhomskogo site in East Siberia.  OAO Gazprom (GAZP)  Neft,
the oil arm of the world’s largest gas producer, has threatened
to slow work on three remote fields because of taxes.  Tax Talks  Talks on  tax reform  are unlikely to produce a windfall for
the  oil companies , as the state will take as much as it can
without ruining investment, said  Eric Kraus , an asset manager at
Nikitsky Capital. At the same time, Russian oil producers are a
low-risk investment because taxes rise and fall with crude,
Kraus said. The state bears price risk, he said.  The stocks with the highest dividends are the best picks,
such as preferred shares in OAO Surgutneftegas, TNK-BP, and OAO
Bashneft, Kraus said. They are “pretty much the only thing in
Russian equity which pays its own rent,” Kraus said. The
Surgutneftegas preferred stock traded today at its highest since
January 2008.  Without tax holidays five years ago Russia would already be
in decline, Lukoil’s Fedun said.  Russia used windfall revenue to build two oil funds to more
than $225 billion in December 2008, cash Putin used to bail out
the banking industry during the global credit crunch and fund
deficits that grew from increased spending on weapons, pensions
and railways.  Oil Reserve Funds  Putin, who wants a return to the presidency after four
years as prime minister, is unlikely to receive a second oil
windfall. Reserves in the two funds dropped to $150 billion at
the end of January.  “Two to three percentage points of our annual growth used
to come from the oil and gas sector,” then Finance Minister
 Alexei Kudrin  said during a meeting with members of Putin’s All-
Russia People’s Front in June. “That’s just gone now.”  Russia’s strategy to keep output above 10 million barrels a
day for the next decade will initially depend on its ability to
increase the amount recovered from existing fields, Kudryashov
said. No major projects are scheduled to come on stream in the
next four to five years, he said.  Pinning Hopes  After that, Russia is pinning its hopes on the development
of untapped deposits in eastern Siberia and the Arctic. The
state will create a special regime for its offshore deposits,
Kudryashov said.  Reductions in tax rates on crude exports, introduced last
year, which increased profitability of mature deposits, have
helped. Producers’ ability to slow decline rates at older fields
underpinned Russia’s surprise record output last year,  Troika
Dialog  wrote in research on Jan. 10. The bank expects the trend
to continue and forecasts marginal output growth this year to
10.4 million barrels a day.  It may be difficult for companies to sustain this without
accelerating developments, said  Alexei Kokin , an analyst at
Uralsib Financial Corp. said.  Forecasts for a plateau in oil production around current
levels for the next decade “may be a bit optimistic,” said
Kokin. “All the risks are to the downside.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Bierman in Moscow at 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  