-- Saleh’s 33-Year Rule in Yemen Ends Today With Vote That Benefits His Party
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r   a n d   M o h a m m e d   H a t e m
-- 2012-02-21T15:19:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/saleh-s-33-year-yemen-rule-ends-today-with-vote-that-benefits-his-party.html
Yemenis voted today in a
presidential election that formally ends the 33-year rule of Ali Abdullah Saleh, who becomes the fourth Arab leader to succumb to
a popular uprising -- albeit on some of his own terms.  As part of the Gulf-brokered accord that concludes Saleh’s
reign, the vice president for the past 18 years, Abdurabu Mansur Hadi, is running uncontested. Hadi was appointed leader after
Saleh signed a power transition accord in November in return for
immunity for himself and his inner circle.  “The importance of the election is that it’s a symbolic
turning point,” April Longley Alley, senior analyst for the
Arabian peninsula at the  International Crisis Group , said in a
telephone interview from Sana’a, the capital. “It’s a way to
allow for a symbolic break from a past era so that there could
be an opportunity to move forward.”  Polls opened at 8 a.m. local time, with about 12 million
eligible voters. In the southern city of Aden, a child and a
soldier were killed as militants from a southern secessionist
movement, which has rejected the vote, fired in the air to
prevent voters from heading to polling stations, said Abdul-
Raqeeb Mohammed, a 28-year-old university student, in a phone
interview. One soldier was killed and four officers injured in
an attack in Hadramout, state-run Saba News Agency said.  Hadi’s Challenge  Houthi rebels in the north have also called for a boycott.
Elections officials said some disruptions were reported,
including removal of ballot boxes and attacks on soldiers.  “We had expected more,” Khamees al-Deeni, deputy head of
the elections committee, said in a news conference. Turnout
exceeded expectations in some cities, including Sana’a and Taiz
in the south, and ballot papers were flown to some centers that
had run out, he said. Some incidents weren’t triggered by
opposition to elections, he said: a ballot box was seized by
residents of Omran, north of Sana’a, because they said the
government owes their tribal leader money.  In the capital, men in white robes, with traditional
daggers on their waist, and women covered in black with only
hands and eyes exposed crowded into a polling center.  “I hope Hadi will be up to the challenge we’re entrusting
him with,” said dentist Amal al-Ahjari, 27, showing her ink-
stained thumb.  ‘Full of Obstacles’  Many said they were voting to formalize the end of Saleh’s
rule. “I voted for Hadi to remove Saleh and his family from
power for good,” Nashwan al-Faqih, 30. “We don’t want to see
this man again.”  The disruptions highlighted the accord’s frailty and the
outstanding issues that could doom it. Saleh’s influence will
also remain after his departure -- his son and relatives command
the country’s strongest military units.  Jamal Benomar, the  United Nations ’ envoy to Yemen, said the
transition is moving forward and most of the accord’s provisions
have been implemented on time.  “There’s a long road ahead that could be full of
obstacles,” Benomar told reporters yesterday.  In a speech yesterday, Saleh, who is in the U.S. for
medical treatment, urged Yemenis to leave the past behind and
rebuild what the country’s political and economic crisis has
destroyed.  Hadi will lead Yemen during a two-year transition that will
end with a new parliament and constitution. Saleh will return
after the vote to lead his party, the General People’s Congress,
as it prepares to contest the next presidential election, party
spokesman Tareq al-Shami said in an interview.  “We are going to be the strongest party in Yemen and we
will win with a big majority,” al-Shami said.  Spare More Deaths  Saleh agreed to relinquish power in the Arab world’s
poorest country after months of protests inspired by the revolts
that forced out leaders in Tunisia, Egypt and  Libya . Tunisia’s
Zine El Abidine Ben Ali fled to Saudi Arabia in January 2011,
Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak  was toppled a month later and
is currently on trial, while Libya’s Muammar Qaddafi was killed
in October.  “Of all the Arab leaders who faced the protest of the Arab
Spring, Saleh is the only one who left through a negotiated
settlement to a certain degree on his own terms,” Alley said.
“The settlement spared the country more bloodshed and that is a
very positive aspect of the agreement.”  The post-election transition must include a reorganization
of security forces, stable economic growth and strong government
institutions, which are “all critical elements in achieving
success against al-Qaeda and extremism in general,” U.S.
Ambassador Gerald Feierstein said in a Feb. 20 interview in
Sana’a.  Saudi Arabia , the world’s largest oil exporter, shares a
1,800-kilometer (1,100-mile) border with Yemen and has been
targeted in the past by Yemen-based militants from al-Qaeda.
Yemen is the home of Osama bin Laden’s ancestors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu Nasr in Sana’a, Yemen at  dabunasr@bloomberg.net ;
Mohammed Hatem in Sana’a at 
 mhatem1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  