-- Samsung to Spin Off LCD Business to Focus on Technology for Thinner TVs
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 2012-02-20T06:16:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/samsung-to-spin-off-lcd-business-to-focus-on-new-tv-technology.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , the world’s
largest maker of flat panels, said it will spin off its
unprofitable liquid-crystal-display division as the company
focuses on making thinner, brighter TVs.  The new company, provisionally named Samsung Display Co.,
will be set up April 1 with paid-in capital of 750 billion won
($668 million), Samsung said in a filing today.  Samsung’s LCD business had an operating loss of 750 billion
won last year as global TV sales slowed. The spinoff company may
eventually merge with the Samsung Mobile Display venture that
makes organic light-emitting diode, or OLED, panels, as Samsung
prepares to meet growing demand for the new technology, said
James Song, an analyst at Daewoo Securities Co.  “It’s a good decision for Samsung Electronics,” Seoul-
based Song said by telephone. “The long-term direction for
their display business is going OLED. They can improve
efficiency of investment by combining similar businesses.”  Samsung is reviewing an eventual merger of its LCD and OLED
operations, Nam Ki Yung, a Seoul-based spokesman, said by phone.  Samsung fell 0.1 percent to 1,175,000 won at the 3 p.m.
close of trading in  Seoul , while the Kospi index gained 0.1
percent. The consumer electronics maker has climbed 22 percent
in the past 12 months, compared with a 0.6 percent gain for the
benchmark.  Wafer-Thin Screens  While OLED displays are mostly used in mobile devices such
as Samsung’s Galaxy smartphones, the Suwon, South Korea-based
company and competitor  LG Electronics Inc. (066570)  are looking to use
the technology in TVs and may start selling sets this year. The
new models can be wafer thin and produce richer colors than LCD
sets.  The  OLED display market  may grow to more than $20 billion
by 2018, accounting for about 16 percent of the total panel
market, from an estimated $4 billion, or 4 percent of industry-
wide revenue, last year, according to  Santa Clara , California-
based DisplaySearch.  Samsung plans to spend 6.6 trillion won on its display
business this year, the company said last month, without
elaborating on how the money will be spent. Spending on LCDs
won’t be “significant,” Robert Yi, senior vice president for
 investor relations , said on a conference call after the release
of fourth-quarter earnings in January.  Investment in the OLED business will probably amount to
about 5 trillion won this year, Song said.  Samsung Mobile Display was set up in 2009 by Samsung
Electronics and affiliate Samsung SDI Co.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  