-- Schroder Likes Korean Bonds in ‘Quite Good’ Asian Debt Year
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2012-02-20T05:41:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/schroder-favors-korean-corporate-bonds-in-quite-good-year-for-asian-debt.html
Schroder Investment Management Ltd.
said it favors South Korean company bonds and expects a “quite
good” year for Asian debt as regional currencies appreciate.  The extra yield investors demand to own Asian dollar-
denominated bonds instead of Treasuries has narrowed 31 basis
points to 347 basis points since Jan. 25, when the  Federal
Reserve  signaled plans to keep U.S. interest rates at near-zero
levels through 2014, an  HSBC Holdings Plc index  shows. All of
Asia’s 10 most-used currencies excluding the yen have
strengthened this year, with the won advancing 2.5 percent.  “Korean corporates are at the top of my mind,” Rajeev De Mello, the Singapore-based head of Asian fixed-income assets at
Schroder, said in a Feb. 17 interview. “They still have wide
spreads and will remain attractive. The outlook for Asian
currencies is still good. We are seeing inflows and that will
continue.”  The region’s developing economies may expand 7.3 percent
this year, compared with 1.8 percent growth in the U.S. and a
contraction of 0.5 percent in the euro area, according to
estimates released last month by the  International Monetary Fund .
Emerging-market bond funds saw record inflows of $2.1 billion in
the first week of February, data from Cambridge, Massachusetts-
based research firm EPFR Global showed. The funds have attracted
$3.8 billion in 2012, up 41 percent from the year-earlier period.  Local-currency bonds in Asia’s 10 largest economies
excluding  Japan  handed investors a return of 4.3 percent in
dollar terms this year, while the region’s dollar-denominated
notes gained 2.2 percent, according to an index compiled by HSBC
Holdings Plc. Treasuries lost 0.5 percent, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch data show.  Chasing Yield  Investors including pension funds are allocating money
“from zero-yield areas to higher-yielding regions,” said De
Mello, who works for a unit of the 200-year-old London-based
 Schroders Plc. (SDR)   The company’s $1.1 billion  Asian Bond Absolute Return fund 
is targeting a gain of as much as 9 percent this year, said De
Mello, who moved from Western Asset Management Co. in July. It
has returned 2.4 percent so far in 2012, beating 64 percent of
its peers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. As of end-
January, 19 percent of its assets were in Korean securities,
followed by 12 percent in  Malaysia .  De Mello, 45, said the won, Malaysia’s ringgit and the
 Singapore dollar  are among his favorite currencies this year.
The  fund manager  said he recently reduced holdings of rupee-
denominated assets because the Indian currency’s rally was “too
fast” given the nation’s “huge” current-account deficit and
the prospect of interest-rate cuts in the second quarter.  India Deficit  India ’s  current-account  shortfall has increased every year
since 2007, surging almost fivefold to $44.4 billion last year
from $9.8 billion four years ago, official data show. The rupee
has led gains among emerging-market Asian currencies this year,
rising 7.7 percent against the dollar. The ringgit is the next
best, with a 5 percent advance, followed by the Singapore dollar,
which has strengthened 3.4 percent.  De Mello said he expects “selective” Chinese property
bonds to offer good returns and that he’s “interested” in  Hong
Kong ’s offshore yuan bond market, which is likely to be “very
good.”  The  average yield  on Dim Sum bonds dropped 78 basis points
this year to 5.17 percent, after rising 157 basis points in the
second half of 2011, according to Bank of  China  (Hong Kong) Ltd.
data. Higher yields, combined with growing issuance, are
attracting more global investors and the prospect of a stronger
yuan has spurred buying of the securities,  De Mello  said.  China Recovery  China’s gross domestic product increased 8.9 percent in the
fourth quarter from a year earlier, the smallest increase since
2009, official data show. The yuan is little changed against the
dollar this year after rallying 4.7 percent in 2011.  “The market has developed enough that it’s now more of a
bond story than just a currency story,” De Mello said. “We had
a moderate economic slowdown last quarter in China, following
the excessive negativism at the end of last year. We will have a
recovery in the first and second quarters and that should be
good for corporate bonds.”  Asian economies have proven “generally resilient” to
turbulence in global markets stemming from  Europe ’s debt crisis
and most have scope to boost spending and cut borrowing costs if
that proves necessary, Anoop Singh, the IMF’s Asia-Pacific
department chief, said Jan. 31. An upbeat growth outlook and
sound public finances are drawing funds from investors seeking
diversification and higher returns, De Mello said.  “ Asia  does offer higher returns in terms of yields that
will attract inflows,” he said. “Asian countries have smaller
deficits and their total debt-to-gross-domestic-product ratios
are lower than the U.S., Japan and most countries in Europe.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 