-- SEC Surrender Continues With Bear Bankers Deal: William D. Cohan
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D .   C o h a n
-- 2012-02-20T14:16:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/sec-surrender-goes-on-with-bear-fund-deal-commentary-by-william-d-cohan.html
Once again, the Securities and
Exchange Commission has embarrassed itself. Last week it let off
the hook two hotshot former Wall Street hedge-fund managers who
lost a bundle for the investors trusting them to manage their
money responsibly.  Instead of going to court on Feb. 13 and laying bare the
sordid facts for a jury, at the last minute the SEC settled a
civil suit against  Ralph Cioffi  and  Matthew Tannin  of the now
defunct  Bear Stearns Cos (2942331Q) . These were the hedge-fund managers who
five years ago loaded up their two funds with billions of
dollars of lousy mortgage-backed securities and collateralized-
debt obligations, leveraged them to the hilt and, when the
market for the securities soured in July 2007, liquidated the
funds.  According to the SEC’s 2008 civil complaint against the men,
the collapse of the funds cost investors at least $1.6 billion.
These problems were among the very first indications that
serious trouble was looming in the housing market and securities
tied to it. The liquidation of the two funds led to the
effective bankruptcy of Bear Stearns itself in March 2008 and
the subsequent financial crisis that nearly wiped Wall Street
off the face of the earth.  But the price the SEC extracted from Cioffi and Tannin as
part of a settlement -- after previously telling the court it
intended to go to trial -- was a mere pittance, “chump
change,” according to the federal judge in  Brooklyn  overseeing
the case. Cioffi, who made $22 million in 2005 and 2006 at Bear
Stearns, will pay just $800,000 and agree to a three-year ban
from the securities industry. Tannin, who was paid $4.4 million
in his last two years at Bear, will pay $250,000 and agree to a
two-year ban. Neither has to admit to wrongdoing. The agreement
will deter absolutely no one from trying to pull off a similar
stunt.  In combination with their November 2009 jury acquittal on
criminal charges in federal court, the SEC civil settlement
provides a major victory for the defendants’ attorneys, Hughes
Hubbard & Reed LLP (for Cioffi) and Brune & Richard LLP (for
Tannin). The American public, on the other hand, is left with
the trillion-dollar bill for  Wall Street ’s financial crisis
caused by the Wall Street bankers and traders who walked off
with billions in bonuses.  This outcome is beyond outrageous. In its  complaint , the
SEC flat-out stated that Cioffi and Tannin mislead their
investors: “Particularly during the first five months of 2007,
as the funds suffered increasing losses to the value of their
portfolios and faced growing margin calls and redemptions …
senior portfolio manager Cioffi and portfolio manager Tannin
deceived their own investors, as well as the funds’
institutional counterparties, by fraudulently concealing from
them the full extent of the funds’ deepening troubles.”  One of the ways Cioffi and Tannin did this was by
displaying, graphically, on the monthly account statements the
percentage of the funds invested in subprime mortgages. For
instance, according to an investor’s statement from March 2007,
the amount of the funds invested in subprime mortgages was
stated clearly as 6 percent. But when the funds blew up, Bear
Stearns created internal “talking points” memos for how to
deal with investor complaints. A memo from June 2007 pointed out
that one of the questions deemed likely to be asked was: “I
thought the fund was diversified, and now it turns out it seems
to have had a fair amount of exposure to the subprime mortgage
market. What exactly was the exposure?” The answer: “60
percent.”  In other words, Cioffi and Tannin told their investors the
funds were diversified -- and raised billions of dollars based
on that representation -- but in reality they were highly
concentrated in subprime mortgages. And now, thanks to the SEC’s
settlement, the two men may never even be held remotely
accountable.  Even Frederick Block, the judge who was to preside at the
trial but instead has been asked to bless the settlement, openly
questioned whether the terms fit the crime. He not only called
the monetary settlement “chump change,” but also said the
SEC’s injunctive provision was “silly” and asked, “Am I just
a rubber stamp here or is there some inquiry I ought to be
making about these provisions?”  In this, he was echoing the well-known views of the
outspoken federal Judge Jed Rakoff, who last year rejected an
agreement between the SEC and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  where the give-up
by the bank was relatively small -- $285 million -- and the firm
was allowed to settle without denying or admitting guilt. In the
Cioffi-Tannin case, the penalty is even smaller and the
investors’ loss greater. Go figure.  John Worland, the SEC’s attorney, defended the agency by
saying that it has no ability to sue for damages, only for the
disgorgement of ill-gotten gains. While technically correct,
it’s not the whole story: The SEC certainly figured out a way to
penalize  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  to the tune of $550 million in
the so-called Abacus case in 2010, when the firm actually lost
some $90 million on the deal.  Then Worland delivered this stunner: “Neither Mr. Cioffi
or Mr. Tannin got rich.” You know how far things have gone
downhill when a lawyer for the SEC, making a bureaucrat’s salary
-- God bless him -- can’t seem to see that two hedge fund
managers are in fact quite rich and got that way in the course
of losing their investors a fortune.  We are all worse off for the SEC’s continued lax
enforcement of wrongdoing on Wall Street. If it won’t protect us
from charlatans, who will? Judge Block, please deny the proposed
pathetic settlement and send the parties back to the negotiating
table or, even better, your court room.  (William D. Cohan, a former investment banker and the
author of “Money and Power: How Goldman Sachs Came to Rule the
World,” is a Bloomberg View columnist. Read his previous column
on Wall Street arbitration online. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Read more online opinion from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
William D. Cohan at  wdcohan@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at 
 tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 