-- Singapore Air Budget Arm Scoot to Serve Five Cities in 2012
-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k   a n d   H a s l i n d a   A m i n
-- 2012-02-21T11:05:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/singapore-air-s-budget-arm-scoot-to-serve-five-cities-this-year.html
Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA) ’s Scoot Pte.
plans to fly to at least five cities by the end of the year as
the group adds long-haul budget services to compete with Jetstar
and AirAsia X Sdn.  Scoot  intends to announce destinations in China and  Japan ,
Chief Executive Officer Campbell Wilson, 40, said in a Feb. 17
Bloomberg TV interview in Singapore. The carrier, which is due
to start flights in June or July, has already said it will fly
to Sydney and the  Gold Coast  in  Australia .  Singapore Air is forming Scoot after low-cost carriers won
26 percent of passenger at its  Changi Airport  home, contributing
to waning load factors and declining profit. The new unit may do
little to help revive earnings amid a long-haul travel slowdown,
said K. Ajith, an analyst at UOB-Kay Hian Research.  “The market has low expectations from Scoot,” Singapore-
based Ajith said in a note today. “Meanwhile, SIA will be
plagued by weak outbound travel out of  Europe  and increased
competition at its Changi hub.”  Singapore Air’s passenger numbers rose 1.3 percent last
year, trailing an 11 percent surge for Changi.  Leisure Travelers  Scoot will fly services as long as nine hours and offer
fares as much as 40 percent cheaper than full-service carriers,
according to Wilson, who was born in  New Zealand  and has worked
at Singapore Air for more than 15 years. The unit will
complement the company’s full-service business by either tapping
new customers on existing routes or by adding new destinations
that are predominately leisure markets, he said.  “Singapore Airlines set us up to provide incremental
traffic,” Wilson said. The carrier is “missing out” on about
a quarter of passengers at its hub, he said.  Scoot will start operations with four Boeing Co. 777-200s,
purchased from its parent. The fleet will increase to 14 777s by
the middle of the decade.  Singapore Air also helped formed  Tiger Airways Holdings Ltd. (TGR) 
to offer budget flights on short-haul routes beginning in 2004.
The carrier, which is now listed,  lost money  in the last three
quarters as its Australian unit pared flights after safety
violations. Singapore Air also owns regional carrier  SilkAir .  Singapore Air, the world’s second-largest carrier by market
value, filled 77 percent of seats last month, a 1.1 percentage
point decline from a year earlier and the 18th straight drop.  The carrier rose 0.3 percent to S$11.00 at the close of
trading in Singapore. It has fallen 23 percent in the past year,
compared with a 20 percent decline for Hong Kong-listed  Cathay
Pacific Airways Ltd. (293)  and a 32 percent jump for  AirAsia Bhd. (AIRA)  in
 Kuala Lumpur .  Profit Expectations  Scoot has said it has startup capital of S$283 million
($226 million). It will spend as much as S$60 million in the
run-up to the start of flights, Wilson said Nov. 2. The carrier
plans to have about 50 pilots and 250 cabin crew by the end of
next year. It expects to fill 75 percent to 80 percent of seats,
Wilson said.  “Our business plan ensures that we are profitable in the
medium term,” he said, without elaboration.  Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN) ’s Jetstar has a hub in Singapore from
where it flies to destinations including Beijing, Auckland and
Melbourne. Overseas budget airlines serving the city-state
include Indian carrier IndiGo and the Philippines’ Cebu Air Inc.,
which operates as Cebu Pacific.  AirAsia Bhd., the region’s biggest budget carrier, flies to
 Singapore  from its base in Kuala Lumpur and from hubs operated
by overseas ventures. The carrier’s long-haul affiliate AirAsia
X flies from Kuala Lumpur, a four-hour bus trip from downtown
Singapore.  Scoot doesn’t plan to fly to Europe soon, as economic
uncertainties and the region’s debt crisis damp  consumer
spending . AirAsia X also last month said it would stop
operations to London and Paris.  “The demand scenario in Europe is very weak for obvious
reasons,” Wilson said. “It’s not a particularly attractive
market at the moment.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net ;
Haslinda Amin in Singapore at 
 hamin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  