-- Spain Sinks Deeper Into Periphery on Debt Rise
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2012-02-20T11:01:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/spain-descends-deeper-into-periphery-as-debt-burden-explodes-euro-credit.html
Spain ’s debt load is set to double
from where it was when  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis began,
eroding the economic advantages that distinguished it from the
region’s periphery and helped shield it from  Greek (1004Z)  contagion.  Finance chiefs meet in Brussels today in the latest effort
to save  Greece  from default. Spain went into the crisis with
public debt of 40 percent of its gross domestic product,
compared with an average ratio of 70 percent in the euro region.
The European Union forecasts its debt will have almost doubled
by next year, as Moody’s Investors Service says Spain is losing
one of its “key relative credit strengths.”  Investors give Spain a discount of just 30 basis points on
borrowing for a decade compared with what they charge  Italy ,
down from 200 basis points at the end of last year. Spain’s 10-
year  yield  is 5.18 percent, up 33 basis points since Feb. 1.  “Time is working against Spain and that is why deficits
have to be brought down sharply before the critical 100 percent
debt-to-GDP mark is breached,” said Georg Grodzki, who helps
oversee $515 billion as global head of credit research at Legal
& General Investment Management in London.  Aaa to A3  The European Commission forecasts Spain’s debt load will
climb to 78 percent of GDP in 2013, compared with a euro-area
average that will have swollen to 91 percent. Spain’s
indebtedness will have increased almost two-fold since 2008,
while Italy’s jumps by just 13 percentage points to 119 percent,
EU forecasts show. Moody’s, which in 2001 rated Spain Aaa and
Italy three steps lower at Aa3, now rates both nations at A3,
four notches above junk grade.  Spain’s deficit-reduction efforts are being hobbled by a
relapse into its second recession in as many years. The
 International Monetary Fund  expects the economy to contract 1.7
percent this year, preventing the nation from meeting its budget
goals. The deficit, which the government estimates amounted to 8
percent last year, will narrow to 6.8 percent this year and 6.3
percent in 2013, the Washington-based lender forecasts. The goal
for this year agreed with the EU is 4.4 percent.  The debt load may also swell as the government offers
support to lenders as it tries to clean up a banking system
saddled with 175 billion euros ($230 billion) of troubled assets
linked to  real-estate .  Bank Support  The government plans to buy from banks bonds that convert
into equity under certain conditions, it said on Feb. 2, without
saying how much it may have to spend. The bank-rescue fund,
known as the FROB, has the capacity to borrow as much as 90
billion euros and the debt it sells counts as public borrowing.  “The problem with Spain lies with the hidden risk from the
potential transfer of banks’ debt to the state’s balance
sheet,” said Thomas Costerg, an economist at Standard Chartered
Bank in  London . “The government is skating on thin ice.”  Members of Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy ’s government, in
power since Dec. 21, have said the nation will struggle to meet
the 4.4 percent deficit target this year while the economy
shrinks. The 8 percent shortfall estimated for last year
compares with the previous administration’s target of 6 percent.  Abundant Liquidity  A “discussion” on the goals between Spain and its
European partners will start after the commission publishes its
growth forecasts on Feb. 23, Economy Minister Luis de Guindos
said last week. EU Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner
 Olli Rehn  urged Spain on Feb. 14 to spell out what additional
austerity steps it will take on top of the 15 billion euros of
tax increases and spending cuts announced in December.  “For now, abundant liquidity is overwhelming fundamental
concerns such as deficit over-shooting, but the latter will
again come into sharp focus later this year,” said Michael Derks, chief strategist at FXPro Financial Services Ltd. in
London.  As three-year loans to banks by the  European Central Bank 
underpin demand for  government bonds , Spain has raised about 30
percent of its planned bond issuance for 2012, according to UBS
AG. Still, the Treasury paid an average of 3.332 percent to sell
three-year bonds at its most recent auction on Feb. 16, compared
with 2.861 percent two weeks earlier, reflecting the 33 basis-
point rise in yields on the existing 2015 bonds.  “The markets have been paying insufficient attention to
the fundamentals,” said Nicholas Spiro, managing director of
Spiro Sovereign Strategy in London. “The recent uptick in the
secondary market could be a foretaste of things to come if the
Greek crisis escalates further.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid  at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Gilbert  at 
 magilbert@bloomberg.net  