-- Hedge Funds Boost Bullish Wagers to 5-Mo. High
-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y
-- 2012-02-20T18:23:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/speculators-boost-bullish-wagers-to-highest-since-september-commodities.html
Hedge funds  increased commodity bets
to the highest in almost five months on signs that a rescue plan
for  Greece  and faster U.S. growth will buoy demand as supplies
shrink for everything from soybeans to copper.  Money managers boosted net-long position across 18 U.S.
futures and options by 2.9 percent to 956,313  contracts  in the
week ended Feb. 14, the most since Sept. 20, government data
show. Soybean wagers jumped 29 percent to a five-month high.
Silver holdings rose for a seventh straight week, the longest
advance in almost three years.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 commodities
reached a six-month high on Feb. 17 as euro-area leaders
expressed confidence that an agreement on a Greek bailout can be
reached. Reports last week on U.S. housing and manufacturing
beat analysts’ forecasts, and claims for jobless benefits
dropped to a four-year low.  Investments (.CMDOI)  in raw-material futures
have jumped 13 percent this year, exchange data show.  “We are seeing confidence return to the market,” said
 James Paulsen , 53, the Minneapolis-based chief investment
strategist at Wells Capital Management, which oversees about
$330 billion of assets. “The U.S. is doing well.  Europe  is
trying to resolve its issues. Going forward, we will see
commodities move up significantly.”  Cocoa, Natural Gas  The S&P GSCI gauge rose 2.2 percent last week. The MSCI
index of equities ended the week 1.5 percent higher, and the
yield on 10-year Treasuries rose 1.6 basis points, or 0.016
percentage point, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  Sixteen of the raw materials tracked by S&P advanced last
week, led by cocoa’s 8.5 percent gain.  Natural gas  climbed 8.4
percent, and cattle prices rose 3.2 percent, touching a record.  Claims for jobless  benefits  unexpectedly dropped in the
week ended Feb. 11 to 348,000, the lowest level in four years,
the Labor Department said on Feb. 16. Manufacturing in the
Philadelphia region expanded at the fastest pace in four months
in February, topping economists’ expectations. Builders broke
ground on more homes than forecast in January, the Commerce
Department said last week.  Supplies of copper will trail demand by 376,000 metric tons
this year,  Barclays Capital  said in a report on Feb. 16.
Consumption will outpace production for tin and palladium, the
bank said. Copper for three-month delivery in  London  gained 0.7
percent to $8,235.50 a ton today.  Shortages are also forecast for soybeans, coffee and cocoa,
Rabobank International said in its latest monthly outlook report
from January.  $357 Million  Investors pulled $357 million out of commodity funds in the
week ended Feb. 15, according to Cambridge, Massachusetts-based
EPFR Global, which tracks money flows. Gold and precious-metals
inflows totaled $102 million, said  Cameron Brandt , the director
of the research firm.  “The  U.S. economy  has shown improvement, but the Europe
overhang remains,” said Dan Denbow, a co-fund manager of the
$2.1 billion USAA Precious Metals and Minerals Fund in  San
Antonio . “Until the problems in Europe are resolved, people
will continue to be in risk-on, risk-off mode.”  Funds sold holdings of corn, cocoa, cotton, heating oil,
coffee, hogs, wheat and gold last week, the CFTC data show.
While open interest across the 24 commodities tracked by the S&P
GSCI is up this year, investments fell 0.2 percent last week
through Feb. 16, heading for the first loss since mid-December,
according to the most recent exchange data.  “People are thinking that there are signs that the economy
is improving, but that is because of central bank
interventions,” said  Stanley Crouch , who helps oversee $2
billion as chief investment officer at New York-based Aegis
Capital Corp. “The underlying fundamentals are very weak. The
credit-bubble impact will be worldwide.”  Crude Bets Jump  Wagers on higher crude-oil prices jumped 14 percent to
233,889  contracts , the government said. That’s the highest since
May. Futures in  New York  climbed to nine-month high on Feb. 17
as improving growth prospects bolstered the outlook for fuel
demand. The commodity has also gained on concern that shipments
will be disrupted by tension between  Iran  and the West over the
country’s nuclear program.  Soybean holdings jumped by 18,186 contracts to 81,042, the
highest since Sept. 20. U.S. exporters made the biggest one-day
sale ever to  China , the world’s top consumer, the government
said on Feb. 17. Prices rose to the highest in almost five
months.  China Deal  Last week, U.S. and Chinese officials signed a five-year
accord to cooperate on agricultural production and trade and
food security as Vice President  Xi Jinping  visited  Iowa . Soybean
prices have jumped 6.2 percent in February as dry weather
threatened crops in Brazil and  Argentina , boosting demand
prospects for U.S. supplies.  A  measure  of 11 U.S. farm goods showed speculators lowered
bullish bets in agricultural commodities by 0.4 percent to
453,637 contracts, CFTC data show. Declines were led by cotton.
The gauge is still up 66 percent this year.  Bets on higher cattle prices climbed 2.2 percent to 88,091
contracts, the highest since mid-November. Futures advanced to a
record on Feb. 17 as rising demand for U.S. beef tightens supply
and increases costs for restaurants including Chipotle Mexican
Grill Inc.  The U.S. cattle herd as of Jan. 1 was the smallest for that
date since 1952, and beef exports surged 21 percent in 2011,
government data show. Global  food prices  rose in January by the
most in 11 months, according to the  United Nations .  “The market wants to go up, and we have had a good start
even if it’s with low conviction,” said  John Stephenson , who
helps manage $2.7 billion of assets at First Asset Investment
Management Inc. in Toronto. “The macro headwinds may soon turn
to tailwinds for the commodity market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Debarati Roy in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  