-- Stephon Marbury Hails Lin, Says More NBA Players Should Consider China
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-20T06:44:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/stephon-marbury-hails-lin-says-more-nba-players-should-consider-china.html
Stephon Marbury, the two-time
National Basketball Association All-Star who’s now the starting
point guard for the Beijing Ducks, said more U.S. players should
consider coming to China as he hailed Jeremy Lin’s performances
for the  New York Knicks .  Playing in the Chinese Basketball Association has been
“revitalizing,” Marbury, 35 today, said in interviews on Feb.
18 and 19 in Guangzhou. Marbury, who played 13 seasons in the
NBA including five years with the Knicks, helped Beijing reach
the playoffs with a second-place finish in the regular season
that finished last week.  “You’ve got to be in the right frame of mind when you come
here ’cause it’s something totally different,” said Marbury.
“I hope more players come. It’d be good for them to come here.
It’s an opportunity for them to have another place to play
basketball other than playing in the NBA or  Europe .”  Marbury has become one of the CBA’s most-recognized players
since arriving in 2010 and has brought “credibility” to the
league, said Benedikt von Dohnanyi of Infront Sports & Media.
His decision to play in  China  is helping to “open the door”
for other athletes to follow, von Dohnanyi said.  “He’s basically making a statement saying it’s not bad to
play here,” said von Dohnanyi, the business development
director for Zug, Switzerland-based Infront Sports, which
provides marketing services to the Chinese league.  Post-NBA Move  Marbury arrived in China after being told to stay away from
the Knicks during  Mike D’Antoni ’s first year as head coach. The
Knicks reached an agreement to buy out Marbury’s contract in
February 2009 after he was suspended one game for what the team
said was his refusal to play against  Detroit  in November 2008.
Marbury then played the remainder of the season with the  Boston
Celtics  before before coming to China.  Lin, D’Antoni’s current starting point guard, has helped
the Knicks win eight of their last nine games. The Harvard
University graduate’s rise from bench-warmer to stardom has been
dubbed “Linsanity.”  “That’s great for basketball,” Marbury said of Lin while
in the southern Chinese city of Guangzhou for the CBA All-Star
Game ahead of the start of the postseason. “He’s playing
extremely well. If he can continue playing consistently the way
he’s been playing, that’ll be great.”  Lin’s success in  New York  is also benefiting the CBA by
encouraging more people in China to start playing basketball and
giving other Asian players hope of making it to the NBA, von
Dohnanyi said.  “I’m sure the NBA is not minding it either,” von Dohnanyi
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 John Liu  in Beijing at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Engle in Beijing at 
 sengle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Bruce Grant  at 
 bruceg@bloomberg.net  