-- STMicro Polishes Indoor Navigation for $4.3 Billion Market
-- B y   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i
-- 2012-02-21T09:00:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/stmicro-adds-polish-to-indoor-navigation-for-4-3-billion-market.html
STMicroelectronics NV (STM)  will show
improved indoor navigation tools and technology that can stop
handsets taking blurred photos as it tries to keep leadership
in a market that may reach $4.3 billion in 2015.  Europe ’s biggest  chipmaker  plans to demonstrate the world’s
“most accurate” indoor measurement system for mobile-phone
location at the  Mobile World Congress  in Barcelona next week,
said Benedetto Vigna, the Geneva-based company’s general manager
of MEMS and sensor products. It will also use the trade fair to
unveil image-stabilization components.  MEMS, or microelectromechanical systems, are becoming
ubiquitous in smartphones and tablets such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s
iPhones and iPads, providing motion-sensing for turning, tilting
and tapping devices. STMicroelectronics’s indoor navigation
system uses data from Wi-Fi access points, motion sensors and
satellite-based positioning, and tackles the issue of “urban
canyons” and indoor environments where signals from GPS
satellites can’t be received, Vigna said.  “It will allow a new wave of location-based services,”
Vigna said in a phone interview. “Your cell phone will be able
to guide you to a Gucci store within a mall, or to your parking
lot. You can get information and advertising targeted on your
location” in places such as underground trains, airports and
museums.  Apple Benefit  STMicroelectronics (STM)  has reinforced its position as the
world’s biggest supplier of consumer MEMS, and is benefiting
from the success of iPhones and iPads, for which it is the sole
source for accelerometers and gyroscopes, according to
researcher IHS iSuppli. Apple accounted for half of the MEMS
business of the company in 2011, IHS iSuppli said.  Global MEMS revenue for consumer and mobile applications
will rise to $4.3 billion in 2015 from about $2.16 billion last
year, IHS iSuppli predicted this month.  MEMS are becoming “the new mice for touch devices,” Vigna
said. “Now there are two trends driving demand: optical image
stabilization and location-based services. Indoor navigation
will be a killer app.”  STMicroelectronics Chief Executive Officer  Carlo Bozotti 
has said that 2011 was “a year of record revenue” for MEMS,
which includes gyroscopes and accelerometers for motion-sensing
in smartphones and tablets.  Camera Features  As handsets’ built-in cameras become capable of taking
higher-definition pictures with more pixels, the greater
exposure time required for bright and sharp images may increase
the effect of users’ movements, resulting in blurred pictures.
Optical image stabilization, to detect handshake and stabilize
the optical components of cameras, will become a standard
feature in such devices, Vigna said.  “The market for OIS is big as it will be a must-have for
next-generation cameras,” he said. “More pixels mean greater
stabilization is required.”  At Barcelona, the company will demonstrate OIS for mobile
devices based on so-called shape memory alloy smart material.  This year, STMicroelectronics introduced the first dual-
core gyroscope, which can handle both user-motion recognition
and camera-image stabilization. This allows device makers to use
a single gyroscope for the two different functions, reducing the
size, complexity and cost in mobile phones and tablets.  “We see a lot of interest for using motion sensors for
indoor navigation,” said Jeremie Bouchaud, a Munich-based
senior MEMS and sensors analyst at IHS iSuppli. “The future of
navigation is with the mobile handset. Content for indoor
navigation is rapidly growing.”  Lighter Devices  MEMS is used in motion-activated user interfaces in mobile
and consumer devices including  Nintendo Co. (7974) ’s Wii gaming
console. The latest sensors and modules are smaller and use less
power, enabling new features to be added to thinner and lighter
smartphones and tablets without impairing battery life.  “Miniaturization is a powerful driver in mobile
electronics and indeed in the semiconductor industry as a
whole,” said Adib Ghubril, a Toronto-based analyst at
researcher Gartner Inc. “Devices have to meet form factors that
are getting tighter and tighter; they have to consume less and
less power, run cooler and cooler and do more.”  STMicroelectronics  shares fell  0.9 percent to 5.64 euros at
9:56 a.m. in Paris, giving the company a market value of 5.13
billion euros ($6.8 billion). The stock has climbed 23 percent
this year after declining 42 percent in 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  