-- European Stocks Rise as Ministers Discuss Greek Bailout; TNT Express Gains
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2012-02-20T16:51:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/stock-index-futures-in-europe-post-gain-before-eu-s-greek-bailout-decision.html
European (SXXP)  stocks rose for a fourth
day, extending a six-month high, as euro-area finance ministers
met in Brussels to discuss a Greek bailout and China cut banks’
reserve requirements to boost growth.  TNT Express NV surged 60 percent after rejecting a takeover
offer from United Parcel Service Inc. PostNL NV, a shareholder
in TNT, jumped 50 percent.  BP Plc (BP/)  advanced after an Oppenheimer
& Co. analyst said the company may reach a settlement this week
on the Gulf of Mexico oil spill.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  climbed 0.8 percent to 268.16 at
the close of trading. The benchmark gauge has rallied 9.7
percent this year amid optimism that the euro area will contain
its debt crisis and as the  U.S. economy  continued its recovery.  “It is in most countries’ interest to preserve the
 European (SXXP)  Union and the euro,” said Peter Garnry, an equity
strategist at Saxo Bank AS, in an interview on Bloomberg
Television. “We think there will be a deal, the Chinese will
come into the game and play a more stabilizing role for  Europe 
because it is one of their largest export markets.”  Finance ministers are meeting in Brussels to weigh the
terms of new loans to Greece and a possible contribution by
central banks. They also aim to start a bond exchange with
private investors meant to stave off a Greek bankruptcy next
month.  “We still have a bit of work to do,” German Finance
Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said. “We’ve set out to wrap up the
decision on a new aid program for Greece. I’m confident.”  China Eases Policy  China cut the amount of cash that banks must set aside as
reserves for the second time in three months to spur lending.
Reserve requirements will fall by 50 basis points effective Feb.
24, the People’s Bank of  China  said.  National benchmarks gained in 17 of the 18 western European
markets. France’s CAC 40 Index advanced 1 percent, while
Germany’s DAX index added 1.5 percent. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index
rose 0.7 percent.  TNT Express surged 60 percent to 10.18 euros after Europe’s
second-largest package-delivery company rejected a $6.43 billion
takeover offer from UPS. PostNL, which owns almost 30 percent of
TNT according to data compiled by Bloomberg, jumped 50 percent
to 4.96 euros.  The “highly conditional” bid of 9 euros a share, 42
percent more than the Feb. 17 closing price in Amsterdam, was
turned down by TNT’s supervisory and executive boards. UPS said
it continues talks.  Oil Companies  A  gauge  of European energy companies rose 1 percent as oil
rose to a nine-month high in  New York  after Iran said it halted
some crude exports and investors bet that fuel demand will
increase.  BP added 2.1 percent to 499.3 pence. The operator of the
Macondo well that caused the U.S.’s worst oil spill may reach a
deal this week after a partner agreed on fines, said  Fadel Gheit , an analyst at Oppenheimer in New York.  Of the 173 Stoxx 600 companies that have reported  quarterly
earnings  since Jan. 9, as many as 76 exceeded analyst estimates,
compared with 86 that missed projections, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Petroleum Geo-Services ASA (PGS)  jumped 9.2 percent to 87.65
kroner, its highest since Aug. 2, after fourth-quarter earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization beat
analysts’ estimates. CGGVeritas, the world’s largest seismic
surveyor of  oil fields , gained 4.1 percent to 23.66 euros.  Commodity Shares  An index of mining stocks advanced 1.6 percent for the
 third-best performance  on the Stoxx 600 as metals rallied in
 London . BHP Billiton Ltd. climbed 2.7 percent to 2,077.5 pence,
while Rio Tinto Group added 2.3 percent to 3,706 pence.  Misys Plc advanced 6.6 percent to 330.1 pence. The
financial-software maker that agreed to merge with Swiss
competitor Temenos Group AG said it received a rival bid from
Vista Equity Partners. Vista may put forward an indicative 1.2
billion-pound ($1.9 billion) bid, the Financial Times reported
today, citing people close to the deal.  Bayer AG (BAYN)  added 2 percent to 57.31 euros after reporting
progress in the testing of its treatment for macular edema.  Ageas, the Belgian insurer, slipped 1.5 percent to 1.69
euros after reporting a fourth-quarter net loss of 44.5 million
euros.  Veolia Environnement SA (VIE)  retreated 3.1 percent to 9.29 euros
after  Les Echos  reported the company’s directors are seeking to
replace Chief Executive Officer Antoine Frerot.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in London at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  