-- Sweden Krona Rises Most in Two Weeks on Greek Optimism; Krone Advances
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2012-02-20T17:13:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/sweden-krona-rises-most-in-two-weeks-on-greek-optimism-china-reserve-rate.html
Sweden’s krona rose the most in four
weeks against the dollar as optimism European finance ministers
will settle their differences over a Greek bailout boosted
demand for higher-yielding assets.  Norway’s krone climbed to its strongest level since
November versus the U.S. currency as  oil prices  jumped to a
nine-month high. The two Nordic currencies also appreciated
against the yen as stocks gained and China’s central bank cut
reserve requirements for lenders, damping investor appetite for
safer assets.  “There has been an improvement in risk appetite” and that
is helping the Swedish and Norwegian currencies, said  Henrik Gullberg , a currency strategist at Deutsche Bank AG in  London .
Norway’s krone “has benefitted a lot from the rally in oil
prices,” he said.  Sweden’s krona gained 1.1 percent to 6.6436 per dollar at
5:09 p.m. London time after rising as much as 1.4 percent, the
biggest intraday advance since Jan. 19. The currency climbed 0.3
percent to 8.8138 per euro.  The Norwegian krone appreciated 0.8 percent to 5.6671 per
dollar after rising to 5.64, the strongest since Nov. 14.  European officials are meeting in Brussels today to discuss
a 130 billion-euro ($172 billion) aid package for  Greece . Their
talks on the country’s second bailout in two years aim to tackle
demands made on Greek leaders, a debt swap among private
creditors and the role of the  European Central Bank .  China Easing  China’s central bank said on Feb. 18 the proportion of cash
that lenders must set aside will drop half a percentage point
from Feb. 24 as policy makers seek to boost lending and sustain
economic growth.  Sweden’s krona gained 0.6 percent today against a basket of
10 developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Indexes. Norway’s krone rose 0.3 percent.  The Swedish central bank cut its key  interest rate  to 1.5
percent on Feb. 16. Norway’s benchmark is 1.75 percent. Those
compare with at low as zero in the U.S. and  Japan . Norway is the
world’s seventh-biggest oil exporter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  