-- Swiss Stocks Rise a Fourth Day Before Meeting on Greece
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2012-02-20T16:52:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/swiss-stocks-rise-a-fourth-day-before-greece-debt-meeting-clariant-jumps.html
Most  Swiss stocks  climbed as euro-
area finance ministers met to decide whether to approve a second
bailout package for  Greece  and as China cut the  reserve
requirements  for its banks.  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,  Switzerland ’s largest
lenders, gained more than 1.5 percent.  Clariant AG (CLN) , the world’s
biggest maker of printing-ink chemicals, jumped 3.7 percent.
 Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , the largest operator of offshore drilling rigs,
fell 5.1 percent after it said it won’t propose a dividend at
its annual shareholder meeting.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI) , a measure of Switzerland’s biggest
and most actively traded companies, added 0.1 percent to
6,242.99 at the close in Zurich, having earlier advanced as much
as 0.5 percent. More than three stocks climbed for every two
that dropped. The gauge rose to a seven-month high last week and
has rallied  5.2 percent this year  as the  European Central Bank 
lent more money to banks and U.S. economic reports topped
forecasts. The broader Swiss Performance Index rose 0.2 percent.  “A decision for a second rescue package would have a
positive impact on stock markets,” said Kai Fachinger, who
manages about $750 million at SAM Sustainable Management AG in
Zurich. “However, investors don’t fear a Greek default as much
as last year as there’s an improved capital situation for banks.
 China  provides for a positive sentiment, as the prospect of a
hard landing is very unlikely for now.”  Finance Ministers Meeting  Euro-area finance ministers met in Brussels at 3:30 p.m. to
seek an agreement on a 130 billion-euro ($172 billion) bailout
for Greece. Talks on Greece’s second bailout in two years aimed
to reconcile demands made on the country’s politicians, a debt
swap among private creditors, the role of the European Central
Bank and concern that austerity will fail.  If ministers fail to approve the bailout package at today’s
meeting, the decision may be delayed until the European Union
summit on March 1.  China cut the amount of cash that banks must set aside as
 reserves  for the second time in three months to spur lending.
Reserve requirements will fall by half a percentage point from
Feb. 24, the People’s Bank of China said on Feb. 18.  UBS rose 1.6 percent to 13.30 Swiss francs, while Credit
Suisse added 2.9 percent to 25.27 francs. A gauge of European
banks contributed the most to the benchmark  Stoxx Europe 600
Index (SXXP) ’s advance.  Julius Baer Group Ltd. (BAER) , the 121-year-old wealth
manager, increased 0.8 percent to 37.60 francs.  Clariant Jumps  Clariant jumped 3.7 percent to 13.35 francs, its highest
price since July. Chief Executive Officer Hariolf Kottmann said
that one of the company’s priorities is reducing debt, according
to a report in Finanz & Wirtschaft. Clariant doesn’t have to
sell any part of the business to cope with its debt levels,
Kottmann said.  Separately, Citigroup Inc. raised  the stock  to “buy” from
“neutral.”  Transocean declined 5.1 percent to 43.57 francs, its
biggest drop in two months. The company said it will take a
charge on a “substantial” portion of the goodwill associated
with its contract drilling services business. The unit’s total
goodwill was about $8 billion, the company said.  Swatch Group AG (UHR)  advanced 1.2 percent to 413.20 francs and
Cie. Financiere Richemont SA gained 1.3 percent to 55.20 francs.
Kuehne & Nagel International AG, the world’s biggest sea-freight
forwarder, added 1.9 percent to 124.80 francs.  Zurich Financial Services AG retreated 1.3 percent to
229.50 francs after Ralph Hebgen, an analyst at Keefe, Bruyette
& Woods Ltd., cut the company’s shares to “market perform”
from “outperform.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  