-- U.K.’s Hague Says Halt in Iran Oil Sales Will Have ‘No Impact’
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2012-02-20T20:39:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/u-k-s-hague-says-halt-in-iran-oil-sales-will-have-no-impact-.html
Iran ’s decision to halt sales of
crude oil to French and British buyers to pre-empt a European
Union ban on imports will have “no impact on Britain’s energy
security or supplies,” said U.K. Foreign Secretary  William
Hague .  Iran “will give its crude oil to new customers instead of
French and U.K. companies,” the  Shana  oil ministry news website
reported, citing Alireza Nikzad Rahbar, a ministry spokesman.
The announcement came as OPEC’s second-biggest producer
negotiates contracts to supply China.  The action may “prompt further price gains for crude,”
John Caiazzo, president of Acuvest Commodity Brokers Inc. in
Temecula,  California , wrote in a note to clients today.  France got 4 percent of its oil imports from Iran in the
first half of 2011 and the U.K. 1 percent, according to the  U.S.
Energy Information Administration . Iran will raise crude volumes
sent to China “soon,” the state Mehr news agency said Feb. 16.  The producer is suspending exports as tension rises in the
Gulf over its nuclear program, sending oil prices to the highest
level in nine months. The EU and U.S. have imposed additional
sanctions against the country, restricting trade and financial
transactions. Iran, the largest producer in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries after  Saudi Arabia , is also under
four rounds of United Nations sanctions.  “The Iranian government can act to bring sanctions to an
end,” Hague said in comments today to lawmakers in the House of
Commons in London. “Our ultimate goal is a return to
negotiations that addresses all the issues of concern about
 Iran’s nuclear program  and the successful conclusion of those
negotiations.”  Threatened Cuts  The country threatened to halt shipments to  Italy ,  Spain ,
 Portugal ,  Greece , France and the Netherlands when it summoned
their ambassadors to the Foreign Ministry on Feb. 15 to protest
the EU’s punitive measures, state media reported. Iran would end
sales of crude to the six countries unless they agreed to long-
term contracts and payment guarantees, state-run Press TV
reported that day, without citing anyone.  EU nations bought a combined 18 percent of Iran’s exports
of crude and condensates, or 452,000 barrels a day, in the first
half of 2011, according to the EIA’s most recent data.  France 
purchased 49,000 barrels a day and the U.K. 11,000 barrels.  The EU said today its member countries are cutting oil
purchases from Iran and have sufficient reserves to deal with
disruptions. Some of the 27 nations, such as the U.K., Austria,
Portugal,  Belgium  and the Netherlands, have already stopped
buying and others including Italy, Spain and Greece are reducing
imports,  Marlene Holzner , an energy spokeswoman for the European
Commission, said in an e-mailed reply to questions.  Oil Price  Oil for March delivery rose as much as $2.12 to $105.36 a
barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , the highest intraday price since May 5. It increased
4.6 percent last week, taking its gain this year to 6.6 percent.  Total SA, France’s largest oil company, stopped buying oil
from Iran, Chief Executive Officer Christophe De Margerie told
Bloomberg Television on Jan. 27 in Davos. Nobody answered calls
by Bloomberg News to the French foreign ministry yesterday.  An official for  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , the biggest European
energy company, declined to comment to Bloomberg.  BP Plc (BP/)  doesn’t
buy Iranian crude, David Nicholas, a London-based spokesman,
said by telephone.  EU emergency stocks are 136 million metric tons, equivalent
to 120 days of consumption, or 4.5 years of the region’s imports
from Iran, Holzner said, adding that no member state has asked
for a release of reserves. EU rules require countries to hold
emergency fuel stocks of at least 90 days of the average daily
domestic consumption in the previous calendar year.  China Deal  Iran  produced  3.545 million barrels of crude a day in
January, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Iranian exports in
2010 averaged 2.154 million barrels a day, according to the EIA.  China  and Iran have agreed on pricing and sales methods for
a supply contract, Mehr said, citing an unidentified official at
the National Iranian Oil Co. An NIOC official at the company’s
Singapore crude-marketing office, who asked not to be identified
in line with company policy, declined to comment on the report.  Iran held talks last month with China International United
Petroleum & Chemical Corp., the nation’s biggest oil trader,
over the Chinese company’s 2012 supply contract, two people with
knowledge of discussions said Jan. 10. The accords between the
buyer, known as Unipec, and National Iranian Oil were scheduled
to be agreed on last year, according to the people, who declined
to be identified because the information is confidential.  China buys 22 percent of Iran’s exports, according to the
EIA. It has bought an additional 200,000 barrels a day of oil
from Iran in recent months, according to the IEA. The country,
the second-biggest crude consumer, may continue to increase
imports from the country, Didier Houssin, director of energy
markets and security, said today at a conference in  London .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Tehran at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bruce Stanley at 
 bstanley5@bloomberg.net  