-- U.S. Senators Meet Egypt Officials Before NGO Worker Trial
-- B y   M a h m o u d   K a s s e m
-- 2012-02-20T22:20:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/u-s-delegation-meets-egyptian-officials-in-cairo-before-ngo-worker-trial.html
A delegation of U.S. officials
including Senator  John McCain  met with Egyptian officials in
Cairo before a scheduled trial of nongovernmental workers
including 19 Americans that threatens to derail relations
between the two countries.  Speaking today at a meeting of foreign ministers in Los
Cabos,  Mexico , Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  refused to
speculate on possible next steps.  “We are not only deeply concerned about the situation as
it affects Americans, but also other nationalities and even
Egyptians who have been charged in this case,” she told
reporters.  Clinton and other officials are saying little about the
case in public because the U.S. administration is still hoping a
face-saving resolution to the matter can be found before a trial
causes serious damage to relations between the two countries,
said two administration officials involved in the issue. Both
spoke on the condition of anonymity because they aren’t
authorized to talk to the news media.  Criminal Charges  McCain and U.S. senators  Joe Lieberman  and Lindsey Graham
discussed the case today with Field Marshal Mohamed Hussein Tantawi, head of the ruling military council. The criminal trial
of 43 workers for nongovernmental organizations, who face
charges that include illegally accepting payments from abroad,
is due to begin on Feb. 26. The son of U.S. Transportation
Secretary Ray LaHood, who works for the Washington-based
International Republican Institute, is among the accused.  “We hear it said that these NGOs are violating Egyptian
sovereignty and meddling in this country’s internal affairs,”
McCain, an Arizona Republican, told journalists. “Nothing could
be further from the truth. Their work -- which is done at the
request of Egyptian democracy and civil society groups -- seeks
to support these Egyptian partners in pushing for the rule of
law, free elections, a free media, respect for the human rights
of all people, and other core principles of a democratic
society.”  Egyptian politicians and media have issued accusations of
foreign meddling just as the country seeks loans from the
 International Monetary Fund , in which the U.S. is the biggest
shareholder.  Egypt  has applied for $3.2 billion in IMF credit to
help repair an economy that has stagnated since the uprising
against  Hosni Mubarak  a year ago. Tourists and investors have
shunned the country and international reserves have dropped by
more than half.  Foreign reserves plunged to $16.4 billion in January,
covering little more than three months of imports. Finance
Minister Momtaz El-Saieed said this month that Egypt also needs
$11 billion to “fund economic reforms.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mahmoud Kassem in  Abu Dhabi  at 
 mkassem1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  