-- U.S. Stock-Index Futures Advance as China Cuts Reserve Ratio for Lenders
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2012-02-20T17:20:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/u-s-stock-index-futures-advance-as-china-cuts-reserve-ratio-for-lenders.html
U.S.  stock-index  futures rose as
China’s central bank cut reserve requirements for lenders to
support growth and euro-area finance ministers gathered to
decide whether to bail out  Greece  for a second time.  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPH2)  futures expiring in March added
0.5 percent to 1,366.40 at 11:29 a.m. New York time. Dow Jones
Industrial Average futures increased 68 points, or 0.5 percent,
to 12,997. U.S. stock exchanges are closed today for Presidents’
Day. Futures trading will resume at 6 p.m. New York time,
according to CME Group Inc.’s  website .  “We have the  U.S. economy  accelerating with the job data
and housing data also beginning to look pretty good,” said
Peter Garnry, an equity strategist at Saxo Bank A/S, in a
Bloomberg TV interview. “We think it is in most countries’
interest to preserve the European Union and the euro. We think
there will be a deal.”  The  S&P 500  advanced 1.4 percent last week, putting it 0.2
percent away from erasing its losses since April, amid optimism
Greece will get another bailout and reports on manufacturing,
housing and jobless claims that bolstered confidence in the
world’s largest economy. The stock index is less than 3 points
away from completing its recovery from a 19 percent retreat
between April and October. Topping 1,363.61 would put the
measure at the highest level since 2008.  Euro-area finance ministers meet in Brussels today to
discuss the second bailout package for Greece. The country’s
Prime Minister,  Lucas Papademos , will also attend. The talks
will seek to reconcile demands made on Greece’s politicians, a
debt swap for private creditors, the role of the  European
Central Bank  and concern that austerity will fail.  ‘Clear Messages’  “We expect today to close a long period of uncertainty
that has not been to the benefit of either the  Greek economy  or
the euro area as a whole,” Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos told reporters in Brussels, according to an e-mailed
statement from his office in  Athens . “ Europe  knows that what is
of importance now is to send clear messages with decisions that
are completed and implemented, with rules which are consistent
and don’t change all the time.”  China cut the amount of cash that banks must set aside as
reserves for the second time in three months to spur lending.
 Reserve requirements  will fall by 50 basis points from Feb. 24,
the People’s Bank of  China  said on Feb. 18.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  