-- Ukraine ‘Hopes’ to Finish Russia Gas Talks Soon, Klyuev Say
-- B y   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a
-- 2012-02-20T16:59:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/ukraine-hopes-to-complete-russian-gas-talks-soon-klyuev-says.html
Ukraine is seeking to “overcome
disagreements” with  Russia  and hopes to complete talks on
natural-gas price agreements soon, said National Defense and
Security Council Secretary Andriy Klyuev.  Klyuev met with  Sergei Naryshkin , the speaker of Russia’s
lower house of parliament, today in Ukraine’s capital city of
Kiev, according to an e-mailed statement from the council.  “I expect both sides will work out an optimal,
economically grounded and fair gas price formula for Ukraine,”
Klyuev said.  Ukraine ships as much as 80 percent of Russia’s Europe-
bound gas through its Soviet-era pipeline network, and depends
on Russia for more than 70 percent of its gas needs. The
countries signed a 10-year contract in 2009 to end a pricing
dispute that had disrupted winter supplies to  Europe  for the
second time in four years. The next year, Russia agreed to
provide a discount of as much as a 30 percent.  Ukrainian President  Viktor Yanukovych  has said the formula
is “enslaving.” The country wants to cut the price to $250 per
1,000 cubic meters from $416, Yanukovych said Dec. 21.  Russia has asked for control of Ukraine’s gas-transit
pipeline to Europe in return for cheaper supplies of the fuel to
its neighbor. Ukraine has refused, Energy and Coal Minister
Yuriy Boyko said Jan. 13.  ‘Dynamic’ Talks  “Talks are dynamic,” Naryshkin said today after meeting
Ukraine’s Prime Minister Mykola Azarov. “Russia’s Energy
Ministry submitted a new draft agreement to the Ukrainian
side,” he said without providing details.  Russia’s  OAO Gazprom (GAZP)  may give Ukraine a 10 percent discount
on the price of gas,  Kommersant-Ukraine  newspaper reported
today, citing an unidentified person familiar with the matter.
Gazprom expects Ukraine to purchase 33 billion cubic meters of
gas this year in line with the existing contract and not to
request any further price cuts, the Kiev-based newspaper
reported.  Ukraine has planned to cut imports to 27 billion cubic
meters of gas this year compared with 40 billion last year.  The Energy Ministry in Moscow declined to comment on the
newspaper report and  Sergei Kupriyanov , a spokesman for OAO
Gazprom, Russia’s gas exporter, didn’t immediately answer his
phone or respond to messages when called by Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daryna Krasnolutska in  Kiev  at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  