-- Muscadet Vignerons Seek Wine’s ‘Next Big Thing’ in Loire Rocks
-- B y   E l i n   M c C o y
-- 2012-02-20T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/muscadet-vignerons-seek-wine-s-next-big-thing-in-loire-rocks-elin-mccoy.html
As my boots crunch through snow,
Pierre-Marie Luneau hands me a chunk of serpentinite rock in his
vineyard on La Butte de la Roche. Like all the best Muscadet
producers, Luneau is obsessed with how soil affects a wine’s
quality.  Muscadet is typecast as a gulpable, fresh, crisp white wine
ideally paired with oysters. And in this huge region in the west
of  France ’s Loire Valley there’s always been plenty of plonk.  On a recent tasting trek, though, I discovered just how
serious this bargain white is becoming. The Luneaus are among
several dozen vignerons busy reinventing it.  Their  Domaine Pierre Luneau-Papin , like most of the top
estates, is in the smaller Muscadet Sevre et Maine area. It has
more than 30 separate plots with five types of terroir in four
villages.  “Our eight Muscadets,” Luneau says, “express the mineral
personalities of these different spots.”  From La Butte de la Roche, a hill whose rocks were pushed
up millennia ago by underground earthquakes, I can see the ice
on the frozen marsh dotted with small islands sparkling in the
sun.  Later, warmed after our vineyard tour by heaters in the
domaine’s spacious tasting room, we sample his range of
Muscadets over lunch. Luneau describes the terroir of each,
adding that 2009 and 2010 are exceptional vintages.  Thick slabs of foie gras, made by his mother Monique,
accompany the 2009 Terre de Pierre ($23) from the La Butte de la
Roche vineyard. The wine is long and layered, with pineapple and
mineral flavors that seem to shimmer on the palate.  By contrast, the ripe, round 2009 Le ‘L’ d’Or ($20), whose
vines grow on granite, shows more power and richness.  Sea Air  The 2007 Excelsior ($28), from 75-year-old vines on mica
schist, is dense and round, full of finesse and with a briny
edge, reminding me how close we are to the Atlantic. All are
kept on the lees (sur lie) until bottling, which gives them a
richer texture and deepens flavors.  Even so, they’re still made from the modest melon de
Bourgogne grape, which is why you’d think a 10- or 20-year-old
Muscadet would be dead in the bottle.  To my surprise, the 1999 Le ‘L’ d’Or ($28) has gained
weight and softness, developing aromas of honey and a complex
tangy ginger-and-lemon taste. The 1989 has freshness as well as
concentration and depth.  Several U.S. sommeliers tell me aged Muscadet is the next
big thing, so I’m happy the domaine regularly releases older
vintages.  Over the past 15 years, small groups of vignerons have been
working to define Muscadet’s top vineyard sites, based on rocks
and soil, an attempt to take the region’s wines beyond what
people think they’re capable of and build Muscadet’s reputation.  First Crus  Last year, Clisson, Gorges, and Le Pallet became the first
officially recognized crus communaux. (Think of them as
Muscadet’s grands crus.)  Well-fed, I head to nearby Domaine de la Pepiere. Owner
Marc Ollivier, whose wines have a cult following and who has
been one of the cru movement’s leaders, says, “The
classification is a good thing. In two years, we’ll have four
more.”  With his round, bright, blue eyes, frizzy halo of grey-
white curls and matching beard, his cheeks red from the cold,
Ollivier looks like he belongs in Santa’s workshop.  Of course, we traipse off to several vineyards before the
sun sets to examine rocks.  His vines in the granite-based Clisson cru, which are at
least 50 years old, are thick, gnarled, and farmed organically.
As we walk, he outlines the production rules for a cru wine --
lower yields in the vineyard, letting the grapes get riper,
leaving the wine on the lees longer to gain more richness, and a
tasting by an independent committee before bottling to verify
quality.  “It’s necessary for them to have complexity and character,
not just flowers and fruit,” he says.  Stone Cellar  In his rustic stone cellar, mercifully warmed by a wood
fire, Ollivier lines up bottles on the wooden bar to show
differences among his crus.  His powerful 2009 Granite de Clisson ($25) is rich and
complex -- good with cheese, he says -- while the not-yet-
released 2010, with a lemon-lime, savory character, is better
for fish. The 2009  Chateau Thebaud , which Ollivier expects to be
approved as a cru in two years, has more brightness and
minerality, and spends even longer on the lees.  A light, yet intense, anise-flavored 1993 Clos des Briords
is from a single vineyard plot of old vines on schist soils. At
19 years of age, it’s fabulous. (The 2010 is a mere $15).  In the last few years, Muscadet has been in crisis, with at
least 60 vignerons going bankrupt in 2010 alone. While most
wines sell for way less than $10 in France, that doesn’t cover
the costs of fine wine production, which is why the new crus
represent hope.  Mustachioed  Jo Landron , whose Domaines Landron have also
focused for years on finding the best terroirs, says, “Quality
is the way forward. I’d like to see more requirements, like hand
harvesting. The crus are the new conscience in the vineyards.”  ( Elin McCoy  writes on wine and spirits for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are her own.)  To contact the writer of this story:
Elin McCoy at  elinmccoy@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 