-- Vietnamese Stocks May Rally as Inflation Eases, Dragon Says
-- B y   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i
-- 2012-02-20T04:44:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/vietnamese-stocks-may-rally-as-inflation-eases-dragon-says.html
Vietnamese stocks, the second-best
performers in  Asia  this year, are cheap and may rally in the
next two quarters as slowing inflation prompts the central bank
to cut interest rates, Dragon Capital Group Ltd. said.  The market’s “fair-value multiple” is between 10 times to
12 times estimated profit, Dominic Scriven, chief executive of
the Ho Chi Minh City-based fund manager, which oversees about $1
billion in assets, said by phone on Feb. 17. His  Vietnam  Growth
Fund, incorporated in the  Cayman Islands , has  returned  14.4
percent this year, the second-best performance of 18 similar
funds tracked by Bloomberg.  The benchmark VN Index jumped 2.7 percent today. It has
gained 18 percent in 2012, as inflation slowed and the central
bank signaled it may cut borrowing costs. The measure’s 27
percent slump last year helped drag valuations to 6.9 times
estimated profit on Jan. 10, the lowest level for data compiled
by Bloomberg dating back to November 2008. It now trades at a
multiple of 8.65.  “It’s very clear to us that after a number of volatile
years, the monetary and economic policy-making is back on track
and is having results,” Scriven said. “The equity markets are
very inexpensive and trade at a relatively low valuation. One
would expect multiples to return to a mean.”  The  VN Index (VNINDEX) , which tracks 302  companies  traded on the Ho
Chi Minh City Stock Exchange, posted the biggest loss among
Asian benchmark gauges in 2011 as the government took steps to
curb the highest inflation rate in the region.  Slowing Inflation  Vietnam’s  inflation  cooled for a fifth month in January,
with consumer prices rising 17.27 percent from a year earlier,
the slowest pace in 10 months. The rate, which was 18.13 percent
in December, may slow to a single-digit pace as soon as June,
Louis Taylor, Standard Chartered Plc’s chief executive for the
country, said on Jan. 13.  “We expect a bigger and more sustainable stock rally in
the second and third quarter when inflation is expected to reach
single digits,” Dragon Capital’s Scriven said. “We’re looking
at a year-end inflation number of 8 percent to 9 percent with
 interest rates  likely to fall as a consequence.”  Asia’s central banks from  Indonesia  to  Thailand  started
cutting interest rates last year to shield growth as  Europe ’s
debt crisis threatened to push the global economy into a
recession. Vietnam’s central bank lowered its repurchase rate on
July 4 to 14 percent from 15 percent. It raised the  refinancing
rate  to 15 percent by the end of 2011 from 9 percent at the end
of 2010.  Lower Costs  Speculation that inflation will ease helped drive the VN
Index up the most in Asia today. The gauge has climbed this year
by the most of any benchmark gauge in the region after the BSE
India Sensitive Index.  “When interest rates decline, businesses will enjoy lower
borrowing costs,” Pham Thanh Thai Linh, Hanoi-based head of
research at Bao Viet Securities Co., a unit of Vietnam’s biggest
insurer, said by phone today. “Falling interest rates will also
boost the attraction of stocks, compared with other investment
channels like savings.”  The Southeast Asian nation’s government will continue to
implement its Resolution 11 strategy, Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung in December told the Consultative Group on Vietnam, which
has convened annually since 1993 to help the nation’s transition
to a market-based economy. Resolution 11, approved in February,
aimed to tighten fiscal and monetary policies.  Manufacturing Hub  The nation will aim for gross domestic product growth of 6
percent in 2012, Dung said. Vietnam’s economy, a manufacturing
hub for companies including  Intel Corp ., expanded 5.89 percent
last year, down from 6.78 percent in 2010.  Consumer-price growth in 2012 may be less than 12 percent
at worst and 8.5 percent to 9 percent in a “good” scenario,
 State Bank  of Vietnam Governor Nguyen Van Binh said at a press
conference on Jan. 11 and signaled that the central bank may cut
rates to “more suitable” levels after the first quarter.  “With easing inflation, we believe the SBV is likely to
lower rates towards the end of the first quarter of 2012,”
Trinh D Nguyen, a Hong Kong-based economist at HSBC Holdings
Plc, wrote in a note dated Feb. 15.  Vietnam’s five-year government bonds gained for a seventh
week on speculation interest rates will be cut.  Yields (GGVN5YR)  on five-
year notes fell 14 basis points, or 0.14 percentage point, last
week to 12.23 percent, according to a fixing from banks compiled
by Bloomberg.  ‘Hard Line’  “Consensus is growing that inflation is coming down and
this will give the otherwise hard-line State Bank of Vietnam a
chance to ease monetary conditions,” Scriven said. “The  bond
market  is telling you that forward inflation is somewhere
between 5 percent and 10 percent.”  Dragon Capital is positive on companies that are likely to
benefit from a drop in interest rates, the  fund manager  said,
declining to name any stocks. The Vietnam Growth Fund had 71
percent of its assets in listed equities, according to a January
factsheet available on the money manager’s  website . Of this, 34
percent was in shares of diversified financial companies, the
highest for any single industry, and seven percent was in real
estate, the data showed.  “We are optimistic that there will be sufficient basis for
some easing of the extremely tight policies and that is
obviously likely to benefit broad areas of the economy and also
the asset market,” Scriven said. “One would expect some
greater response from stocks in the interest-rate sensitive
sectors like real estate and financials.”  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  