-- Virtual Priest Offers Guidance on Web Browsing at Israeli Museum
-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 2012-02-20T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/virtual-priest-gives-guidance-on-internet-browsing-at-israel-design-museum.html
A virtual priest pops up in a
confessional and offers spiritual guidance to computer users who
routinely spill their guts through Google searches. A neon sign
displays words eavesdropped from mobile-phone conversations.  The Israeli works in the “Decode: Digital Design
Sensations” exhibition at the  Design Museum Holon  comment on
digital traces left by everyday communications, and are
especially poignant given escalating Mideast cyber-attacks.  “There is some kind of critical thinking, and at least in
these installations a need to reveal the mechanism, to say: OK,
this technology is great, but let’s look at it and how it
works,” says  Mushon Zer Aviv , who designed the priest-inspired
browser plug-in “Good Listeners.”  The plug-in, which can be downloaded at home, opens up the
confessional whenever a site is exposing a visitor’s data to a
third-party service. The idea is to present a satirical
visualization of the vast amount of data passively generated by
Web surfers that is collected and mined by Internet forces.  Websites operated by the  Tel Aviv Stock Exchange  and  El Al
Israel Airlines Ltd.  were attacked by hackers on Jan. 16 after a
pro-Palestinian computer group, calling itself “Nightmare,”
warned of imminent assault.  Hacker Assault  “Nightmare” first signaled its plan to attack the two
corporate websites in an e-mail to the Ynet news service, which
reported on its own site that the message was sent by a person
identifying himself as a Saudi Arabian hacker. The same person
had been exposing the numbers of thousands of Israeli credit
cards lifted from locally operated sites.  “Much of Israeli design in the past was influenced by the
military because of the need to find a solution to solve a
problem,” says Eran Lederman, who teaches industrial design at
 Bezalel Academy  of Arts and Design in Jerusalem.  “What is influencing Israeli design is the fact that in
 Israel  there are few manufacturing, industrial companies,” he
says. “Most of the production stems from startup companies
where the purpose is to sell ideas. As a result, Israeli design
stands out for its ideas.” Lederman is also partner and founder
of the Tel Aviv-based  Leor-Lederman Industrial Design Studio .  Israel, whose population of 7.8 million is similar in size
to  Switzerland ’s, has about 60 companies traded on the Nasdaq
Composite Index, the most of any country outside the U.S. after
 China .  Humanized Design  The exhibition, curated by  London ’s  Victoria and Albert
Museum  in collaboration with  onedotzero , explores developments
in digital and interactive design. The Holon museum added three
Israeli installations to the original show.  Electronic flowers light up and make music as they are
touched by passersby, and a Fantasia-like electronic display
features flower-like designs that open and shut based on trading
data from a stock exchange.  “Cubes,” by the Interaction Lab at the  Holon Institute of
Technology , is a hands-on installation of clear cubes that
reveal their inner mechanism as they respond to stimuli from the
viewer, emitting sounds, traveling across an opaque table or
revealing distances.  “The message is that technology design is becoming more
and more humanized,” says Amnon Silber, director of the
museum’s education department. “We don’t need to write a
complicated line of code to operate a device. There are no
manuals.”  Xbox Kinect  As an example, Silber points to Kinect, the  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) 
Xbox game that’s based on technology developed by Israel’s
PrimeSense Inc. On Jan. 18,  General Motors Co. (GM)  said it was
working with the Bezalel Academy on a project that will turn car
windows into interactive displays.  Students have created applications that include an animated
character projected on the window that responds to weather and
landscape as well as a product that allows finger-drawing.  Israeli designers have a good chance of developing an idea
that may be as unique as  Apple Inc. (APPL) ’s iPhone, Lederman says.  “The Israeli eye hasn’t been made used to detail and
design but the ear is sensitive to ideas in material and
technology,” he says. “As such, Israeli designers have a big
advantage in understanding technology and users’ needs.”  “Decode-Digital Design Sensations” runs through March 10
at Design Museum Holon, 8 Pinhas Eilan St., Holon. Information:
 http://www.dmh.org.il .  To contact the writer on the story:
Gwen Ackerman in  Jerusalem  at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 