-- Walter Schloss, ‘Superinvestor’ Who Earned Praise From Buffett, Dies at 95
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2012-02-21T01:22:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/walter-schloss-superinvestor-who-earned-buffett-s-praise-dies-at-95.html
Walter Schloss, the  money manager 
who earned accolades from Warren  Buffett (BRK/A)  for the steady returns
he achieved by applying lessons learned directly from the father
of value investing,  Benjamin Graham , has died. He was 95.  He died on Feb. 19 at his home in Manhattan, according to
his son, Edwin. The cause was leukemia.  From 1955 to 2002, by Schloss’s estimate, his investments
returned 16 percent annually on average after fees, compared
with 10 percent for the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. (SPX)  His firm,
Walter J. Schloss Associates, became a partnership, Walter &
Edwin Schloss Associates, when his son joined him in 1973.
Schloss retired in 2002.  Buffett, a Graham disciple whose stewardship of Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. has made him one of the world’s richest men and
most emulated investors, called Schloss a “superinvestor” in a
1984 speech at  Columbia Business School . He again saluted
Schloss as “one of the good guys of Wall Street” in his 2006
letter to Berkshire Hathaway shareholders.  “Walter Schloss was a very close friend for 61 years,”
Buffett said yesterday in a statement. “He had an extraordinary
investment record, but even more important, he set an example
for integrity in  investment management . Walter never made a dime
off of his investors unless they themselves made significant
money. He charged no fixed fee at all and merely shared in their
profits. His fiduciary sense was every bit the equal of his
investment skills.”  Began as ‘Runner’  To Buffett, Schloss’s record disproved the theory of an
efficient market -- one that, at any given moment, assigns a
reasonably accurate price to a stock. If companies weren’t
routinely overvalued and undervalued, Buffett reasoned, long-
term results like Schloss’s couldn’t be achieved, except through
inside information.  Schloss, who never attended college, began working on  Wall
Street  in 1935 as a securities-delivery “runner” at Carl M.
Loeb & Co. He said Armand Erpf, the partner in charge of the
statistical department, recommended that he read “ Security
Analysis ” by Graham and  David Dodd , published a year earlier.
The book became a classic in the field. The firm then paid for
Schloss to take two courses with Graham sponsored by the New
York Stock Exchange Institute.  Schloss stayed in touch with Graham while serving four
years in the U.S. Army during World War II, then went to work
for Graham before striking out on his own.  The Schloss theory of investing, passed from father to son,
involved minimal contact with analysts and company management
and maximum scrutiny of financial statements, with particular
attention to footnotes.  Focus on Statements  “The Schlosses would rather trust their own analysis and
their longstanding commitment to buying cheap stocks,” Bruce
Greenwald, Judd Kahn, Paul Sonkin and Michael van Biema wrote in
“Value Investing: From Graham to Buffett and Beyond,” their
2001  book .  “This approach,” the authors wrote, “leads them to focus
almost exclusively on the published financial statements that
public firms must produce each quarter. They start by looking at
the balance sheet. Can they buy the company for less than the
value of the assets, net of all debt? If so, the stock is a
candidate for purchase.”  An example was copper company Asarco Inc. The Schlosses
bought shares in 1999 as the stock bottomed out around $13. In
November of that year,  Grupo Mexico SA (GMEXICOB)  bought Asarco for $2.25
billion in cash and assumed debt, paying almost $30 a share.  ‘Guts to Buy’  “Basically we like to buy stocks which we feel are
undervalued, and then we have to have the guts to buy more when
they go down,” Schloss  said  at a 1998 conference sponsored by
Grant’s Interest Rate Observer. “And that’s really the history
of Ben Graham.”  Buffett, in his 2006 letter to shareholders, said Schloss
took “no real risk, defined as permanent loss of capital” and
invested “in about 1,000 securities, mostly of a lackluster
type. A few big winners did not account for his success.”  Edwin Schloss, now retired, said yesterday in an interview
that his father’s investing philosophy and longevity were
probably related.  “A lot of money managers today worry about quarterly
comparisons in earnings,” he said. “They’re up biting their
fingernails until 5 in the morning. My dad never worried about
quarterly comparisons. He slept well.”  Walter Jerome Schloss was born on Aug. 28, 1916, in  New
York City , the son of Jerome H. Schloss and the former Evelyn
Gomprecht, according to a paid notice in the New York Times. He
attended the Franklin School in  Manhattan , now part of the
 Dwight School .  Early Lessons  Schloss learned lessons about earning and saving from his
father, whose radio factory warehouse burned down before a
single unit was sold, and from his mother, who lost her family
inheritance in the 1929 market crash,  Alice Schroeder  wrote in
her 2009  book , “The Snowball:  Warren Buffett  and the Business
of Life.”  He enlisted in the Army on Dec. 8, 1941, the day after
 Japan ’s surprise attack on  Pearl Harbor , and rose to the rank of
second lieutenant. He served in  Iran  as part of the Signal
Corps, then moved to the Pentagon in Washington to complete his
tours of duty.  During this period, he stayed in touch with Graham, who was
looking for a securities analyst just as Schloss was finishing
up his wartime service. Schloss joined Graham-Newman in 1946.  Schloss first met Buffett at an annual meeting of
wholesaler Marshall Wells, which drew both investors because it
was trading at a discount to net working capital, according to a
2008 article in Forbes magazine. When Buffett joined Graham-
Newman, he and Schloss shared an office.  While Buffett became a star inside the firm, Schloss was
“pigeonholed as a journeyman employee who would never rise to
partnership,” Schroeder, a Bloomberg News columnist, wrote in
her book.  Schloss left Graham-Newman in 1955 and, with $100,000 from
an initial 19 investors, began buying stocks on his own.  His wife, Louise, died in 2000. They also had a daughter,
Stephanie. In 2001, Schloss married the former Ann Pearson.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in  Washington  at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  