-- Euro Gains Most in Two Weeks on Greece Aid Optimism; Dollar, Yen Decline
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2012-02-20T17:01:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-20/yen-dollar-drop-versus-major-peers-on-china-easing-progress-on-greek-aid.html
The euro strengthened the most in
almost two weeks against the dollar on speculation European
finance ministers will settle their remaining differences over a
Greek bailout at a meeting today.  The 17-nation currency rose for a third day versus the yen
as German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said he was
“confident” approval would be reached at the meeting on a new
130 billion-euro ($172 billion) Greek bailout. The dollar fell
after China cut  reserve requirements  for banks, reducing demand
for safer assets. The yen weakened to a six-month low against
the greenback after  Japan  posted its largest monthly trade
deficit on record.  “The prices suggest some degree of optimism that the
ministers will be able to agree on something,” said  Lee Hardman , a currency strategist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ
Ltd. in London. “If they reach a deal and Greece is able to
avoid the outright default, the euro should be well supported in
the near term.”  The euro appreciated 0.9 percent to $1.3259 at 4:49 p.m.
 London  time after climbing as much as 1 percent, the biggest
intraday gain since Feb. 7. The currency advanced 0.8 percent to
105.41 yen, after touching 105.75, the strongest level since
Nov. 14. The yen was little changed at 79.50 per dollar,  U.S. financial markets are shut for a public holiday.  Europe Meeting  Euro-area finance ministers are meeting in Brussels to
discuss the terms of new loans to Greece and a possible
contribution by central banks. They also aim to start a bond
exchange with private investors meant to stave off a Greek
bankruptcy next month. Should they fail to agree on the bailout
today, the issue may be delayed until the next European Union
summit on March 1.  More assurances are needed for  Greece  to secure another aid
package, according to Dutch Finance Minister Jan Kees de Jager.
“Money should be in a special blocked account, an escrow
account as it’s known in English,” he said in Brussels.  “The market is cautiously optimistic in terms of what they
expect out of  Europe  this week,” said  Thomas Averill , managing
director in Sydney at Rochford Capital, a currency and interest-
rate risk-management company. “There will be support for the
euro today.”  The euro has gained 0.4 percent in the past month according
to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track 10
developed-market currencies. The yen dropped 5.7 percent, and
the dollar declined 2.4 percent.  Futures Traders  The euro gained even after  futures  traders boosted bets the
currency will decline against the dollar. The difference in the
number of wagers by  hedge funds  and other large speculators on a
drop in the euro compared with those on a gain was 148,641 on
Feb. 14, compared with 140,593 a week earlier, according to the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission.  The yen weakened against 13 of its 16 major counterparts
after Japan’s Ministry of Finance said the trade deficit widened
to 1.48 trillion yen in January. The median estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for a shortfall of 1.46
trillion yen.  Standard & Poor’s  affirmed Japan’s sovereign-debt rating at
AA- today, maintaining a negative outlook and warning a
downgrade is likely if medium-term growth prospects weaken.  The dollar dropped against all but one of its most-active
peers as the People’s Bank of  China  cut banks’ reserve
requirements. The action aims to support lending and sustain
economic growth as the housing market cools.  ‘More Easing’  “The market is probably expecting more easing” from
China, said  Mike Jones , a foreign-exchange strategist at Bank of
 New Zealand  in Wellington. “If we do get the Greek deal on top
of that, it’s likely to provide an additional risk kicker.”  Implied  volatility  of three-month options of Group of Seven
currencies dropped for a third day, declining 0.5 percent to
10.32 percent, according to the JPMorgan G7  Volatility Index . A
decrease makes investments in currencies with higher benchmark
lending rates more attractive as the risk in such trades is that
market moves will erase profit.  The pound rose for a fourth day against the dollar after an
industry report showed U.K. house prices increased in February,
adding to signs the economy is recovering.  Average asking prices for homes in London increased 2.5
percent from January, Rightmove Plc said in a report today.
Prices in England and  Wales  rose 4.1 percent on the month, the
most since April 2002.  Sterling gained 0.2 percent to $1.5853, and advanced 0.1
percent to 126.01 yen.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net ;
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  