-- Adecco Hires Recession-Hit Spanish Engineers for German Jobs
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2012-07-06T14:21:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/adecco-hires-recession-hit-spanish-engineers-to-fill-german-jobs.html
Adecco SA (ADEN) , the world’s biggest
supplier of temporary workers, said it’s hiring Spanish
engineers to fill German jobs as  Europe ’s largest economy lacks
skilled employees and  Spain  is facing a recession.  “We are proactively looking for candidates in Spain,”
Andreas Dinges, the head of Adecco’s German business, said in a
phone interview. “We have already recruited more than 50
engineers from Spain and if the German economy doesn’t worsen,
I am confident we can get several hundreds.”  Germany has an unemployment rate of 5.6 percent compared
with almost 24.6 percent in Spain, the highest in the European
Union, according to the Eurostat statistics agency. Spaniards
are struggling to find work as budget cuts erode consumer demand
and prompt companies to eliminate jobs.  Adecco will provide German language courses for its Spanish
recruits in  Germany  and help with relocation to the country,
Dinges said. The company, based in Glattbrugg,  Switzerland , may
also link up with Spanish universities.  “There are more than 30,000 open positions for engineers
in Germany that cannot be filled,” Dinges said. “The quantity
and quality of the candidates are not meeting fully the demand
of the industry in Germany. We’ve got to get the right people
and make them stay.”  Northern Italy  Adecco will focus on getting skilled workers from  northern
Italy  once its project with Spain “is up and running by
October,” Dinges said. The company is mostly looking for
engineers and information-technology workers for the auto,
aircraft and machine-building industries, he said.  “We moved to Germany because there’s a possibility to find
appealing positions” for people with highly technical training,
said Africa Perianez, 32, who moved from  Madrid  to Frankfurt
with boyfriend Javier Menendez, also 32, in February 2010. Both
have post-graduate degrees in theoretical physics.  “Compared to the offer in our home country, where the
investment in research and development is so small, this is like
paradise for us,” said Perianez, a scientific researcher at the
German weather service. Menendez is a researcher at the
Technical University of Darmstadt.  More than a quarter of working-age immigrants to Germany in
the 1999-2009 period had a university degree, according to a
study published this month by the  Cologne-based IW economic
research institute . That compares with 18 percent for the German
population.  The immigrants’ average age is 32.6 years, more than 10
years younger than the overall German population, IW’s report
shows.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in  Frankfurt  at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  