-- Lagarde Says IMF to Cut Growth Outlook as Global Economy Weakens
-- B y   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s
-- 2012-07-06T06:09:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/lagarde-says-imf-to-cut-global-growth-forecast-as-crisis-lingers.html
The  International Monetary Fund  will
reduce its estimate for global growth this year on weakness in
investment, jobs and manufacturing in  Europe , the U.S., Brazil,
India and China, Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  said.  “The global growth outlook will be somewhat less than we
anticipated just three months ago,” Lagarde said in a speech in
 Tokyo  today. “And even that lower projection will depend on the
right policy actions being taken.” The new outlook will be
announced in 10 days, after an April estimate of 3.5 percent,
she said.  Interest-rate cuts in China and Europe yesterday and the
 Bank of England ’s boost to an asset-purchase program underscored
the fragility of the global recovery as austerity measures and
debt burdens weigh on advanced nations. Lagarde is pressing for
fiscal union in Europe to aid growth and financial stability as
nations such as  Greece  wrestle with balancing their books.  The “key  emerging markets ” of Brazil, China and India are
showing signs of slowdown, Lagarde said. Those three countries
along with  Russia  will comprise more than 20 percent of the
world economy this year, according to IMF data.  “Over the past few months, the outlook has regrettably
become more worrisome,” Lagarde said. “Many indicators of
economic activity -- investment, employment, manufacturing --
have deteriorated. And not just in Europe or the  United
States .”  The IMF has already lowered its U.S. growth estimate to 2
percent from April’s 2.1 percent.  European Union leaders agreed at a June 28-29 meeting to
loosen bailout rules, lay the foundations for a banking union
and break the link between sovereign and banking debt through
the direct recapitalization of lenders.  ‘More Significance’  The summit was “of more significance” than past attempts
to stem the crisis, Lagarde told Bloomberg contributor  Judy
Woodruff  in a July 3 televised interview.  “They need to move towards fiscal union as well,” Lagarde
said then. “But they’re heading in a new direction together and
that’s a clear sign that things are changing.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index was 0.6 percent lower at 3:00
p.m. in Tokyo on concern yesterday’s central bank easing won’t
be enough to boost growth.  As Greece struggles with elevated unemployment and a
recession, the nation has said that it wants to renegotiate its
bailout, something Lagarde said she was not in the mood for, in
a July 3 interview with CNBC. Officials from the IMF, ECB and
the European Commission are assessing the country’s progress in
implementing the terms of a second international rescue package.  Yen Concerns  Japanese Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  told Lagarde that
sustained gains in the yen because of the euro region’s crisis
are damaging his country’s economy, according to a statement
released by his office today.  “The euro zone crisis is the most important problem facing
the global economy at present,” Noda said in the statement. The
strength of the yen “does not reflect the real state of Japan’s
economy,” he said.  Asia’s second-biggest economy needs to sustain a recovery
from last year’s earthquake and tsunami without enlarging a
public debt burden that is already the world’s biggest. Gains by
the yen crimp exporters’ sales and profits, dragging on the
nation’s growth.  The gains in the currency and impact on exports from
slowing European growth are “two risks of primary concern” for
Japan, Lagarde said. She praised the passage of Noda’s bill to
double the  consumption tax  through the lower house of parliament
last month as a “very positive step,” adding that it was
“critical” for it to be implemented. The legislation has yet
to be voted on in the upper house.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  