-- Amazon Said to Plan Smartphone to Vie With Apple IPhone
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n ,   O l g a   K h a r i f   a n d   A s h l e e   V a n c e
-- 2012-07-06T20:30:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/amazon-said-to-plan-smartphone-to-vie-with-apple.html
Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  is developing a
smartphone that would vie with  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and handheld
devices that run  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android operating system, two
people with knowledge of the matter said.  Foxconn International Holdings Ltd. (2038) , the Chinese mobile-
phone maker, is working with Amazon on the device, said one of
the people, who asked not to be identified because the plans are
private. Amazon is seeking to complement the smartphone strategy
by acquiring patents that cover wireless technology and would
help it defend against allegations of infringement, other people
with knowledge of the matter said.  A smartphone would give Amazon a wider range of low-priced
hardware devices that bolster its strategy of making money from
digital books, songs and movies. It would help Chief Executive
Officer  Jeff Bezos  -- who made a foray into tablets with the
Kindle Fire -- carve out a slice of the market for advanced
wireless handsets. Manufacturers led by Samsung Electronics Co.
and Apple  shipped  398.4 million smartphones and other mobile
devices in the first quarter, according to researcher IDC.  Drew Herdener, a spokesman for Amazon, declined to comment.  Mark Mahaney , an analyst at Citigroup Inc., said in
November that Amazon is planning to release a smartphone.  Seattle-based Amazon considered buying wireless patents
from InterDigital Inc. before the King of Prussia, Pennsylvania-
based company said in June that it will sell the assets to Intel
Corp. for $375 million, two people said. Amazon is taking
pitches and setting up briefings with other sellers, the people
said.  Patent Protection  Amazon slipped less than 1 percent to $225.05 at the close
in New York. Foxconn gained 3.7 percent in Hong Kong.  Amazon beefed up its patent prowess recently by hiring Matt
Gordon, formerly senior director of acquisitions at Intellectual
Ventures Management LLC, the company that was founded by former
Microsoft Corp. Chief Technology Officer  Nathan Myhrvold  and
owns more than 35,000 intellectual property assets. Gordon will
be general manager for patent acquisitions and investments at
Amazon, according to his profile on LinkedIn.  Adding patents would help Amazon protect itself against
lawsuits alleging illegal use of technology. Amazon has been
involved in five  patent-related cases  this year, and 20 cases
last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Demand for mobile patents has increased, as shown recently
by Google’s $12.5 billion acquisition of Motorola Mobility
Holdings Inc. and its thousands of patents, which closed this
year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net ;
Olga Kharif in Portland at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net ;
Ashlee Vance in  San Francisco  at 
 avance3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  