-- American Airlines Seeks to Modify Retiree Benefits
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2012-07-06T20:43:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/american-airlines-seeks-to-modify-retiree-benefits.html
AMR Corp.’s  American Airlines , which
is cutting labor costs while in bankruptcy, asked a court to
rule it can unilaterally modify retiree benefits because they
aren’t vested.  American is under “no legal compulsion” to continue to
provide retiree health and welfare benefits, the airline said in
a complaint filed today against a retiree committee in  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court  in Manhattan.  The airline today also proposed changes to company-paid
medical benefits and  life insurance  to the retiree committee
appointed in AMR’s bankruptcy, the Fort Worth, Texas-based
airline said in a statement, without being more specific.  “We understand any changes to these benefits are
concerning to our retirees,”  Bruce Hicks , an American
spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement. “It’s important to
remember the changes we’re proposing are very similar to those
we propose to make for active employees when they retire.”  AMR provides benefits to five groups of retired workers:
pilots, ground workers, flight attendants, nonunion retirees and
retired employees of Trans World Airlines Inc., according to the
court filing. American acquired TWA in April 2001.  AMR has about 40,000 current retirees, including American
and TWA.  For current workers, American plans to end employer-paid
retiree medical benefits, although it will continue to provide
access to medical coverage for retirees who choose to pay for
it, the company said on a website detailing changes planned in
its restructuring.  The main bankruptcy case is In re  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) , 11-15463; the
retiree case is AMR Corp. v. Committee of Retired Employees, 12-
01744, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  