-- Angang Steel Expects First-Half Loss as Product Prices Drop
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-07-06T11:10:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/angang-steel-expects-first-half-loss-as-product-prices-drop.html
Angang Steel Co. (347) ,  China ’s largest
Hong Kong-traded producer of the alloy, said it expects to swing
to a loss in the first half after prices plunged.  The loss was 1.98 billion  yuan  ($311 million) in the six
months ended June 30, compared with a profit of 220 million yuan
a year earlier, Liaoning province-based Angang said today in an
 exchange filing , citing unaudited preliminary figures based on
Chinese accounting standards. Angang had a loss of 2.4 billion
yuan in the six months ended Dec. 31, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Weakening exports and China’s curbs on property have eroded
steel demand and prices. The economy in the second quarter
probably grew 7.8 percent from a year earlier, the slowest
expansion in more than three years, according to the median
forecast of 15 economists in a Bloomberg survey last month.
China cut its benchmark interest rates yesterday as the
government moves more aggressively to revive the economy.  Steel prices in the first half fell more than 12 percent
from a year earlier, squeezing profits even as the company took
measures to cut expenditure, Angang said in the statement. The
average price of hot-rolled coils, a benchmark product, has
fallen for 12 straight weeks, the longest streak since January
2003, based on Beijing Antaike Information Development Co.’s
first available data.  Angang shares  rose 1.1 percent to HK$4.49 today in  Hong
Kong , before the announcement, compared with a 0.04 percent drop
in the benchmark  Hang Seng Index . The stock has fallen 20
percent this year.  Angang was the first major Chinese steelmaker to report
preliminary results. Aggregate profit at China’s steel industry
dropped 57 percent in the first five months from a year ago, the
China Iron and Steel Association said this week, without giving
details.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Yuan in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  