-- Arsenal Tracks Replacements for Robin Van Persie: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-07-06T06:16:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/arsenal-tracks-replacements-for-robin-van-persie-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Van Persie Replacements  Arsenal is looking at Fiorentina forward Stevan Jovetic and
Borussia Dortmund striker  Robert Lewandowski  as potential
replacements for Robin  van Persie , the  Daily Mail reported .  Van Persie is keen to complete his exit before Arsenal’s
Asia tour starts July 24 and is said to want to miss the trip
because it would delay any pending move, the Mail added.  According to the  Daily Express , Arsenal is the front-runner
to sign Real Madrid striker Joselu, who’s yet to play for the
Spanish club’s first team and would cost 10 million pounds
($15.5 million).  Juventus Favorites  Italian champion Juventus is the favorite to sign Van
Persie ahead of Manchester United and  Manchester City , the  Daily
Mirror reported .  Juventus will come back with an improved bid having already
had one offer rebuffed, and is ready to pay Van Persie 180,000
pounds a week, the newspaper added.  Walcott to Walk?  England forward Theo Walcott is “devastated” by Van
Persie’s decision not to renew his Arsenal contract and is ready
to follow him out of the club, the  Sun reported .  Walcott is in an identical position to the Dutch striker as
he’s entering the final year of his agreement and has said he
wouldn’t commit his own future until Van Persie made his
intentions clear, the newspaper added.  Open to Offers  Tottenham Hotspur is ready to listen to offers for  Rafael van der Vaart  with a fee of at least 10 million pounds likely to
be enough to buy the attacking midfielder, the  Mail reported .  Spurs is considering a bid of 7 million pounds for
Birmingham goalkeeper Jack Butland in a deal that may allow the
Blues to keep him on loan for a season, the Mail added.  Ganso Chance  Spurs have been given the chance to sign attacking
midfielder Ganso from Santos after contract talks between the
player and his Brazilian club broke down, the  Mirror reported .  The 22-year-old Ganso, whose full name is Paulo Henrique
Chagas da  Lima , has played seven time for  Brazil ’s senior team,
the newspaper added.  Fryers Fee  Tottenham is heading to a transfer tribunal over  Manchester
United  defender Ezekiel Fryers, who is set to join Spurs next
week, the  Sun reported .  The London club only wants to pay 2 million pounds for the
19-year-old, who has skipped pre-season with United after his
contract ended in June, the Sun added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  