-- Axius CEO Indicted Over Stock-Manipulation Claims
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2012-07-06T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/axius-ceo-indicted-over-stock-manipulation-claims.html
Axius Inc. (AXIU)  Chief Executive Officer
Roland Kaufmann was indicted on charges he participated in a
scheme to bribe brokers and manipulate the share price of the
Dubai-based company.  Kaufmann, 60, was charged in an indictment filed yesterday
in federal court in Brooklyn, New York. He was charged with
conspiracy to commit  securities fraud ,  wire fraud ,  money
laundering  and other crimes. Jean-Pierre Neuhaus, 55, a Swiss
financial professional, was also named in the filing.  Kaufmann and Neuhaus are accused in the indictment of
trying to artificially inflate the value of Axius stock by
enlisting a person who they believed would direct a group of
corrupt stockbrokers to buy shares in exchange for kickbacks of
as much of 28 percent. That individual was an undercover
enforcement agent, prosecutors said.  “Rather than rely on the market to set the true value of
Axius stock, the defendants allegedly sought to buy the best
price possible through bribery and deception,” U.S. Attorney
Loretta Lynch in Brooklyn said in a statement.  No Axius investors were defrauded in the undercover
operation, the  Justice Department  said in the statement.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission filed a related
civil enforcement action against both men yesterday, prosecutors
said. Both men were charged in a criminal complaint and arrested
on March 8, 2012, according to the statement.  Robert Nardoza , a spokesman for Lynch and, Josef Klazen, a
lawyer for Kaufmann, didn’t immediately return voice-mail
messages after regular business hours yesterday seeking comment
on the indictment.  Justin Goodyear, lawyer with the Justice Department’s fraud
section and Shannon Jones, an assistant U.S. attorney in
Brooklyn, didn’t return voice-mail messages after regular
business hours yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in New York at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  