-- Shell Start of Arctic Oil Drilling Slipping to August
-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2012-07-06T21:35:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/barge-flaws-delay-shell-alaska-drilling-coast-guard-says.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ’s drilling off
 Alaska ’s north coast will be delayed until August as the company
waits for ice to clear and modifies a spill-response vessel to
meet U.S. Coast Guard requirements.  “Our largest impediment to time of drilling is persistent
sea ice,” said  Curtis Smith , a spokesman for The Hague-based
company. “We’ve moved our estimation from late July to
potentially the first week of August.”  The company will use the delay to complete renovating a
barge called the Arctic Challenger to add oil-recovery equipment
that will be deployed in the event of a well blowout.  The company, which has spent almost $5 billion in Alaska,
plans to drill as many as five wells this year. Shell’s plans to
tap resources in the Chukchi and Beaufort seas, estimated to
have more than 20 billion barrels of oil, have been thwarted by
environmental groups and native Alaskans who oppose drilling,
citing the risks of an  oil spill  and air pollution.  The Coast Guard said today the barge has deficiencies in
fire-fighting and electrical systems that must be corrected
before getting a permit. The company plans to comply with the
requirements, John Haney, Shell project development and
construction manager, said today in a telephone interview.  Shell is seeking to classify the barge as a mobile
platform, rather than as a vessel anchored in one place and
unable to clear out in case of storms. The change would better
match the type of operations intended for the barge, he said.  A fleet of vessels, led by the Kulluk and Noble Discoverer,
departed  Seattle  en route to Dutch Harbor, Alaska, last month in
preparation for the exploratory work, Shell said in a June 27
statement. The barge, operated by  Superior Energy Services Inc. (SPN) ,
remains in a shipyard in Bellingham,  Washington , the Coast Guard
said.  Besides the Coast Guard certificate, Shell has to obtain a
final permit from the Interior Department’s Bureau of Safety and
Environmental Enforcement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net ;
Carol Wolf in Washington at 
 cwolf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  