-- Basel Group Seeks Tougher Rules for Non-Centrally Cleared Swaps
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n   a n d   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2012-07-07T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/basel-group-seeks-tougher-rules-for-non-centrally-cleared-swaps.html
Banks may have to meet minimum
collateral rules for over-the-counter derivatives trades that
aren’t centrally cleared as part of a push by global regulators
to make the market safer.  The  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  yesterday
published a draft of the standards, which it said would prevent
companies from exploiting rule differences between nations. The
paper sets out a partial list of assets that can count as
collateral, including gold and some equities.  “International consistency with regard to margin
requirements and their implementation is crucial,” the Basel
group said in an e-mailed statement. The measures, which are
being published for public comment, would apply to trades
involving financial-services companies and large businesses in
other industries that trade these securities.  European Union and U.S. regulators are struggling to align
rules for the  $648 trillion market  for OTC derivatives, which
became a target for tougher oversight after the 2008 collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. The Basel committee has already
issued rules that would more than triple the capital banks must
hold to protect against losses.  The draft document’s approach to margin standards “would
lower the risk of financial entities, promote clearing and help
avoid regulatory arbitrage,”  Gary Gensler , chairman of the U.S.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission, said in a separate
statement yesterday.  Crippling Markets  Banks warn  that inconsistencies in rule-making and
overlapping requirements may increase costs and give foreign
competitors an advantage. Lenders also say that making
collateral rules too tough risks crippling markets by forcing
traders to set aside the bulk of their high-quality assets.  Under today’s proposal, regulators would allow companies to
use a range of instruments as collateral, including cash,
government debt, “high-quality corporate and covered bonds,”
gold and equities listed on “major”  stock exchanges .  Extending the list of eligible collateral beyond “the
most-liquid, highest-quality assets” reduces the risk of the
rules damaging markets, according to the draft. The Basel
committee will carry out a study on the plan’s impact.  The proposal gives a standard list of losses imposed on
investors that should be applied to these securities, while
still leaving traders scope to use internal models instead.  The  International Swaps and Derivatives Association 
 estimates that  $3.6 trillion of collateral was in circulation in
the uncleared OTC derivatives market at the end of 2011, an
increase of 24 percent from the previous year.  The rise was attributed to developments including
downgrades of banks by credit-ratings companies, the euro-area
debt crisis and a decline in interest rates.  Margin Rules  The Basel committee, which drafted the paper in
collaboration with the  International Organization of Securities
Commissions , will seek comment until Sept. 28. Basel rules have
no legal force and must be implemented by nations before they
can take effect.  According to the proposal, both parties to a trade should
post so-called initial and variation margins.  Initial margin is collateral posted at the beginning of a
trade. Variation margin may be exchanged daily to offset risk
from incremental price movements.  The Basel group is weighing possible exemptions to the rule
for smaller transactions, though its members are split over how
such a threshold should be “designed and calibrated,”
according to the draft.  ‘Broad Consensus’  The Group of 20 nations called in 2009 for trades in
standard types of OTC derivatives to take place through
clearinghouses as part of an effort to make the market simpler
and more robust. The G-20 then agreed in 2011 to set margin
requirements for transactions that take place away from central
clearing to boost the resilience of the financial system.  Today’s plans would also force firms to ring-fence and not
re-use collateral so that it wouldn’t be lost to the company
that posts it if a trader goes bankrupt.  There is a “broad consensus” among regulators that “the
re-use of initial margin should be prohibited,” the committee
said. Still, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
believes it should be allowed “in very limited circumstances.”  “The dealers are just going to squeal if that right gets
taken away from them,” Christian A. Johnson, a University of
Utah law professor, said yesterday in a telephone interview.
“It’ll put tremendous pressure on dealers. It just
exponentially raises the amount of collateral they’ll have to
have.”  Foreign Exchange  The proposal on margins covers non-cleared credit,  interest
rate , commodity and foreign-exchange derivatives. In the U.S.,
the Treasury Department proposed an exemption for foreign-
exchange swaps and forwards from most of the Dodd-Frank Act’s
clearing and trading rules. The Treasury said there was less
counterparty and settlement risk in foreign-exchange contracts
than other types of derivatives.  “It is unclear whether these characteristics fully offset
the need for margin requirements,” the Basel committee said in
its report. The committee is seeking comment on whether to allow
an exemption for foreign-exchange contracts, such as those with
durations of less than a month or a year.  The Basel committee, which is headquartered at the  Bank for
International Settlements , brings together banking regulators
from 27 nations including the U.S., U.K. and  China .  Madrid-based IOSCO brings together national market
regulators from more than 100 countries to coordinate rules and
share information.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net ;
 Maura Reynolds  at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  