-- Berkshire Buys GM Before Plunge as Backups Pick Stocks
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-07-06T04:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/berkshire-buys-gm-before-plunge-as-backups-pick-stocks.html
Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. (BRK/A)  acquired its largest stake in  General Motors Co. (GM)  before the
automaker slumped 16 percent, as the billionaire chairman hands
more responsibility to deputy stock pickers.  Berkshire accumulated about 8.47 million shares of GM
through Feb. 3 at an average price of $24.35, according to
National Association of Insurance Commissioners data compiled by
Bloomberg. The automaker closed at $20.54 yesterday in  New York .
Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire’s full stake was reported in a
separate  regulatory filing  in May that didn’t disclose the
purchase price or date.  Buffett, the world’s third-richest person, built a
reputation for investing in stocks below intrinsic values and
riding out market swings until prices rose. That strategy has
helped Berkshire amass the  largest holdings  in companies
including Coca-Cola Co. and American Express Co.  “It’s probably an advantage of Berkshire’s model that they
don’t have to” focus on short-term results,  Meyer Shields , an
analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co., said in a phone interview.
“The long-term track record of equities is pretty solid. So if
you get yourself in that position, where you can endure a lot
more fluctuation than almost any other  investment company , then
you should be able to benefit.”  Buffett, 81, has been preparing Berkshire for his eventual
departure, in part by hiring former hedge-fund managers Ted Weschler and Todd Combs to help oversee a portion of the firm’s
$89.1 billion stock  portfolio . Buffett has said he makes
Berkshire’s larger wagers, while the back-up stock pickers are
responsible for smaller bets. Each oversees $2.75 billion,
Buffett said May 5 at the company’s annual meeting.  One Quarter  “Combs, Weschler and Buffett are peas in a pod,”  Jeff Matthews , a Berkshire shareholder and author of “Secrets in
Plain Sight: Business and Investing Secrets of Warren Buffett,”
said in an e-mail. “I hardly think they worry about one
quarter’s performance of one stock.”  Berkshire bought another 1.53 million GM shares through
Feb. 14 for an average of $25.46 each, the insurance filings
show. Taken together, the holdings had lost about $40 million in
value through yesterday, assuming no shares were sold. Most of
Berkshire’s stock portfolio is at insurance units that have
their investments tracked by the NAIC. Buffett didn’t respond to
a request for comment sent to an assistant.  GM’s shares fell  45 percent  last year, even as the company
regained the title of world’s largest automaker and earned a
record annual  profit  of $9.19 billion. The U.S. government still
owns a 32 percent  stake  in the Detroit-based firm after
supporting its 2009 bankruptcy and restructuring.  European Crisis  Dan Akerson, GM’s chief executive officer, has said the
shares have been pressured by troubles in  Europe , which is
struggling with a debt crisis. GM has lost $16.4 billion on the
continent since 1999. A plan to break even last year was on
track until November when the company pulled back its forecast
as the European outlook worsened.  “For the whole sector, Europe is just going to keep
weighing the stocks down at least for the rest of this year,”
David Whiston, an equity analyst with Morningstar Inc. in
 Chicago , said in a phone interview.  GM’s slump may provide Berkshire with another opportunity
to buy shares in a company that could benefit as U.S. consumers
replace aging cars, said  Tom Lewandowski , an analyst at Edward
Jones & Co. GM sales climbed 16 percent in June, beating the
average estimate of a 7.6 percent gain according to 11 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. Shares surged 5.6 percent on July 3, when
the data were released.  More Shares  “If anything, I would put money on them buying more of it
if they have conviction in the investment,” Lewandowski, who
advises clients to buy Berkshire stock, said in a phone
interview. “It’s not going to be cause for concern.”  Berkshire also added to its holdings of  DaVita Inc. (DVA)  in the
first quarter, buying 3.32 million shares at an average price of
$84.04. The Denver-based provider of kidney dialysis care closed
at $97.57 yesterday, delivering Buffett’s firm a $44.9 million
paper profit if the shares are still held.  DaVita agreed on May 21 to acquire HealthCare Partners,
which manages medical groups and physician networks under a
system that rewards lowering costs. The acquisition will give
DaVita an opportunity to profit from a growing part of the
health-care market, Leerink Swann & Co. analysts led by  Jason Gurda  wrote in a June 8 note to clients.  HCP’s Model  “We like HCP’s model, which unlike many other companies in
health care, doesn’t depend on using local market leverage to
drive pricing higher,” they wrote.  Peter Grauer, chairman of Bloomberg LP, the parent company
of Bloomberg News, has served on DaVita’s board of directors
since 1994.  Berkshire’s bets on Wal-Mart Stores Inc., the world’s
largest retailer, have also gained if they’re still intact.
Buffett’s firm added 7.67 million shares in the first quarter.
The largest portion was accumulated at an average price of
$59.92 through March 29, according to NAIC data.  Wal-Mart, based in Bentonville,  Arkansas , climbed to a
record close of $71.08 yesterday after slumping earlier this
year amid a bribery probe at the company’s Mexico operations.
Buffett’s stake, including shares acquired previously, is valued
at more than $3 billion.  “I don’t think the earning power of Wal-Mart five years
from now will be materially affected by the outcome of this
situation,” Buffett said at the meeting on May 5.  Other stock picks that increased from their purchase price
include 1.3 million shares of  Liberty Media Corp. (LMCA)  and 2.65
million shares of  DirecTV. (DTV)  The Liberty Media shares were
purchased at an average price of $83.03 and closed at $91.27
yesterday, while the DirecTV stake was accumulated at an average
price of $44.48 and closed yesterday at $49.24.  The purchase dates and prices, detailed in NAIC statements,
aren’t included in quarterly filings to the Securities and
Exchange Commission. When stakes are built across multiple days,
the NAIC allows companies to consolidate acquisitions under the
date of the last purchase.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  