-- Best Buy Said to Cut 2,400 Jobs
-- B y   K e l l y   B l e s s i n g
-- 2012-07-06T20:58:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/best-buy-said-to-cut-2-400-jobs.html
Best Buy Co. (BBY)  will cut 2,400 jobs, or
about 1.4 percent of its workforce, starting immediately,
according to a person familiar with the plans.  About 600 Geek Squad tech support jobs will be eliminated
along with 1,800 store positions by Aug. 1, said the person, who
declined to be identified because the plans are private. Those
eliminated will qualify for job-placement assistance and
severance packages, said the person.  The job cuts come as Best Buy struggles to compete with the
likes of Amazon.com Inc.,  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  In
March, Best Buy reported a $1.7 billion fourth-quarter loss and
said it would close 50 big-box stores.  Best Buy is trying to thwart the so-called showrooming
phenomenon -- when customers try out gadgets in a store and then
buy them online -- by adopting Apple-style minimalism rather
than its traditional big-box approach.  Best Buy also is remaking the Geek Squad. Technicians will
staff in-store booths to fix simple problems -- think Genius Bar
-- instead of providing  service  in customers’ homes.  The Geek Squad job cuts will affect only technicians who
provide in-home service, said the person.  Management Shake-Up  Best Buy is searching for a permanent chief executive
officer to replace  Brian Dunn , who resigned in April after
having an inappropriate relationship with a female employee.  Founder and Chairman Richard Schulze said in May that he
would step down as chairman after an internal investigation
revealed he failed to tell the board about the relationship.  Schulze resigned last month after announcing plans to sell
his 20 percent stake in the company.  Schulze is exploring taking the world’s largest electronics
retailer private, as he considers options that include selling
his stake, a person familiar with the situation said last month.  Best Buy fell 0.7 percent to $21.59 at the close in New
York. The Richfield, Minnesota-based company’s  shares  have
declined 7.6 percent this year.  CNBC reported the 2,400 job cuts earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelly Blessing in  New York  at 
 kblessing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  