-- BOE's FPC Discussed Suspending Liquidity Rules at June Meeting
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-07-06T08:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/boe-s-fpc-discussed-suspending-liquidity-rules-at-june-meeting.html
The Bank of England’s Financial
Policy Committee set aside a proposed recommendation to suspend
liquidity rules to encourage lending at its meeting last month,
citing the benefit to stability from those rules.  The bank’s 11-member FPC recommended after the meeting that
regulators should make clearer that banks can use liquid asset
buffers in the event of stress to encourage lending. At the
meeting, the panel discussed whether there was a case for
“going further” by suspending the liquidity rules.  “Suspension might provide the clearest message to banks
that they could reduce their liquid asset holdings,” according
to the minutes of the June 22 FPC meeting, published today in
 London . “Given, however, the uncertainty about how far
regulatory requirements were the key constraint, and recognizing
the benefits that had accrued from the regime over recent years,
including incentivising safer funding structures, this option
did not command support.”  The FPC unveiled five recommendations on June 29 to enhance
the safety of Britain’s banking system, including that capital
buffers may need to temporarily exceed requirements implied by
the transition to Basel III standards. The recommendation on
liquidity followed concerns that strains in credit markets were
impeding banks’ ability to lend.  The FPC said there were “macroprudential grounds for banks
using their liquid asset holdings to facilitate greater lending,
with positive consequences for the economy and in turn
resilience over the medium term.”  The panel also noted the government’s announcement that it
would amend the Financial Services Bill to give a secondary
objective that the FPC must “support the economic policies of
the government, including its objectives for growth and
employment.”  “It was noted that the primary objective, to protect and
enhance resilience, and the new secondary objective were
compatible,” the minutes said. Still, it would put “more onus
on the committee to articulate the rationale for its policies.”  The FPC is operating on an interim basis while the
legislation to formalize its powers is considered in Parliament.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  