-- BP’s LNG Expansion in Tangguh to Target Japanese, Korean Buyers
-- B y   F i t r i   W u l a n d a r i   a n d   Y o g a   R u s m a n a
-- 2012-07-06T03:26:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/bp-s-lng-expansion-in-tangguh-to-target-japanese-korean-buyers.html
BP Plc (BP/)  is targeting buyers in  Japan 
and  South Korea  for planned supplies of liquefied natural gas
from its Tangguh plant in Indonesia to benefit from a shortage
of regional Asian supplies.  BP may export as much as 60 percent of the LNG from its
third  production line  at Tangguh, according to William Lin, the
company’s Asia-Pacific president. It will build on existing
contracts that Asian buyers have with Indonesian providers and
their strategy of using multiple suppliers, he said.  “Indonesia is very strategic to a lot of markets in
 Asia ,” Lin said in an interview June 29. “For a lot of those
buyers, Japanese and Korean, diversification is very important.
They don’t want to buy all of their requirements for instance
from the  Middle East  because if something adverse happens,
 energy security  could be at risk.”  Asia is expected to remain short of LNG through 2018 as
demand in the region surges, Wood Mackenzie Ltd., an Edinburgh,
U.K.-based consultant, said in a June 6 report. Gas consumption
in Japan, the world’s biggest importer of the fuel, will jump 53
percent by 2017 to 127 billion cubic meters a year, the
 International Energy Agency  said in its Medium-Term Gas Market
Report last month.  Tangguh’s third line, known as a train, is projected to
start production as early as 2018 after construction begins in
2014, Lin said. The facility will cost $11 billion and produce
as much as 3.8 million metric tons a year of the fuel.  New Projects  Tangguh has proven gas reserves of around 14.4 trillion
cubic feet and the two existing LNG trains can produce at least
7.6 million tons a year, according to BP’s website. The plant
shipped 250 cargoes from its first delivery in July 2009 through
mid-June this year, according to a company factsheet provided
during the interview.  BP has a 37 percent interest in Tangguh. Other partners
include CNOOC ltd with about 14 percent and Nippon Oil
Exploration (Berau) Ltd. with 12 percent.  Indonesia  is seeking new LNG projects as its older
facilities at Arun in Aceh province and Bontang in East
Kalimantan start to run out of supply.  “With Bontang and Arun going down, buyers see Tangguh as
the next big LNG center with Train 3 and possibly future trains
if we can find more gas in the area,” said Lin.  BP is talking with customers about long-term supply from
the third train, Lin said without giving details on the
potential buyers.  The company signed a memorandum of understanding in May to
supply as much as 40 percent of the production from the third
 Tangguh  train, or 230 million standard cubic feet a day, to PT
Perusahaan Listrik Negara, the state electric utility. Indonesia
is trying to increase gas use by power stations and vehicles to
offset declining oil output and cut the cost of fuel subsidies.  Domestic Market  “We need some gas going to the domestic market because we
know the domestic market is growing and needs gas but we also
want to diversify our market exposure,” Lin said. “A 40
percent to 60 percent ratio of domestic to export balance on
Train 3 is very reasonable.”  Jakarta-based Listrik Negara will receive as much as 150
million cubic feet a day from the existing trains at Tangguh
starting 2014 and will get the full amount when the third line
starts, according to Lin. BP plans to negotiate the contract and
agree on the price in the next few months, he said.  Under the same agreement, BP will also supply as much as 4
megawatts of electricity immediately to the community around the
project, Lin said. Electricity from the plant could increase to
70 megawatts and extend to other areas, he added.  Future Expansion  “Our proposal to the Indonesian government is very much
about local needs in Papua and Bintuni through power” as well
as meeting the requirements of shareholders, stakeholders and
partners for export to “attractive” markets in  East Asia , he
said.  BP is also increasing oil and gas exploration in Indonesia
after picking up two deep-water blocks in Maluku last year,
according to Lin. The company has committed to invest $10
billion over the next 10 years to finance development of Tangguh,
a coal bed methane project, and exploration in Indonesia.  “We’re continuing to pick up more exploration blocks,” he
said. “We like eastern Indonesia because that’s where we have
been operating with Tangguh but we’re also looking at other
areas.”  BP, through its VICO venture with  Italy ’s  Eni SpA, (ENI)  is
carrying out testing at its coal-bed methane project in East
Kalimantan’s Sanga-Sanga and may see early production in 2014 to
2015, Lin said. The gas will be compressed into LNG at the
Bontang plant, he said.  If the project works, Indonesia could be the first country
that produces LNG from coal-bed methane, he said. The nation has
an estimated 453 trillion cubic feet of coal-bed methane
resources, the energy ministry’s Geology Agency said last year.  LNG is natural gas chilled to minus 260 degrees Fahrenheit
(minus 162 degrees Celsius), putting it in a liquid state for
shipping by tanker.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fitri Wulandari in Jakarta at 
 fwulandari@bloomberg.net ;
Yoga Rusmana in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  