-- Branch Banking & Trust Wins Overdraft Fees Ruling
-- B y   S u s a n n a h   N e s m i t h
-- 2012-07-06T21:59:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/branch-banking-trust-wins-overdraft-fees-ruling.html
BB&T Corp. (BBT) ’s Branch Banking & Trust
unit won reversal of a lower-court decision, allowing it to
require arbitration in a consumer lawsuit claiming the bank
charged excessive overdraft fees.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in Atlanta today ordered U.S.
District Judge James Lawrence King in Miami to send the case of
a South Carolina customer of the bank to arbitration.  The panel’s ruling prevents customers of the Winston-Salem,
North Carolina bank from suing as a group. A class action allows
plaintiffs to share the costs of gathering evidence and pursuing
claims. When cases are bundled together, plaintiffs may have
greater leverage in trying to persuade defendants to settle.  The appellate court agreed with the judge that a portion of
the bank’s customer agreement was “unconscionable.”  The court said that portion, which requires the customer to
pay for any dispute, even if the consumer wins, could be
eliminated while the rest of the agreement is enforced.  “We are pleased that the 11th Circuit Court of Appeals has
agreed with our position and recognized that arbitration is a
proper and reasonable means to resolve a dispute of this
nature,” Merrie Tolbert, a spokeswoman for the bank, said in an
e-mail statement.  ‘Basic Unfairness’  More than 30 banks have been sued over overdraft fee
policies and more than a dozen have settled the cases including
PNC Bank, a unit of PNC Financial Services Group Inc., which
agreed last week to pay more than $90 million. The cases have
been consolidated in Miami before King for pre-trial
proceedings.  “We are pleased that the court ruled that BB&T’s bank
services agreement contained unconscionable provisions and we
were disappointed that merely by severing them, the customer can
be forced into arbitration,” said Bruce Rogow, one of the lead
attorneys for the plaintiffs in the Branch Banking case. “This
case underscores the basic unfairness of these consumer
contracts that overwhelmingly favor the banks’ interests to the
detriment of the customer.”  Rogow said today’s ruling didn’t necessarily affect other
pending cases. Not all the banks have arbitration clauses in
customer service agreements and some decided not to bring up the
arbitration issue at all, he said.  Supreme Court  The U.S.  Supreme Court , in a decision last year in ATT
Mobility v. Concepcion, ruled companies can use arbitration
clauses to block class action claims.  “There’s no question that Concepcion tilts the field
decidedly toward arbitration,” Rogow said. “It is still an
individual, case by case analysis. If there had been no
severability clause in this contract, we would have won.”  The appellate ruling is Barras v. Branch Banking and Trust
Co., 11-14318, U.S. Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit
(Atlanta). The lower-court case is In Re Checking Account
Overdraft Litigation, 09-cv-02036, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of  Florida  (Miami).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susannah Nesmith in Miami at  susannahnesmith@yahoo.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  