-- Brazil Main Sugar Region to Miss Output Forecast: Raizen
-- B y   L u c i a   K a s s a i
-- 2012-07-06T18:05:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/brazil-main-sugar-region-to-miss-output-forecast-raizen.html
Sugar production in  Brazil ’s center
south, the world’s largest producing region, will be lower than
previously estimated after rain eroded the cane’s sugar levels,
according to a venture between  Cosan SA Industria & Comercio (CSAN3)  and
 Royal Dutch Shell Plc. (RDSA)   “Rainfall in May and early June will result in more cane,
but less sugar,” Pedro Mizutani, head of sugar and ethanol at
the venture known as Raizen, said in a telephone interview
yesterday. “Sugar content of the cane is quite low.”  Sugar output in the center south region is estimated at
31.5 million metric tons in the crop year that started April 1,
Mizutani said from Sao Paulo. That compares with a 33.1 million-
ton forecast made April 12 by industry group Unica, which
represents producers including Raizen.  Brazil is the world’s largest producer and exporter of
sugar.  Latin America ’s largest economy accounts for about half
of global shipments of the sweetener.  The sugar cane harvest in the center south will probably be
extended until December, after rain slowed picking in May and
early June as harvesters can’t work in muddy fields, Mizutani
said. The harvest typically ends in November.  Ethanol output is forecast at 22.5 billion liters (5.9
billion gallons), more than the 21.5 billion liters expected by
Unica, Mizutani said. Sugar-cane output is estimated at 520
million tons, he said. That’s up from as much as 505 million
tons for this season, Unica Chairman Pedro Parente said June 14.  Raw sugar for October delivery rose 0.7 percent to 22.08
cents a pound in ICE Futures U.S. in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucia Kassai in  Sao Paulo  at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  