-- Brazil’s June Inflation Rate Declines to Lowest Since 2010
-- B y   D a v i d   B i l l e r   a n d   M a t t h e w   M a l i n o w s k i
-- 2012-07-06T16:15:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/brazil-june-inflation-rate-falls-to-lowest-since-2010-correct-.html
Brazil’s  inflation  rate in June fell
to the lowest level in nearly two years as economic growth
falters in the face of the  European debt crisis , opening room
for the central bank to continue cutting  interest rates .  Consumer prices, as measured by the benchmark IPCA index,
rose 0.08 percent in June from a month earlier, the smallest
jump since a 0.04 percent increase in August 2010, the
government’s statistics agency said in  Rio de Janeiro  today. The
median estimate from 48 economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for
inflation of 0.13 percent. Prices in June rose 4.92 percent from
a year earlier, the lowest  annual increase  since September 2010.  The deceleration coincides with diminished growth prospects
for the second-biggest emerging market and suggests the central
bank will continue cutting the benchmark rate after its meeting
next week, when it will probably lower the Selic to 8 percent
from the current 8.5 percent, said  Luciano Rostagno , chief
strategist for Banco WestLB do Brazil.  “The IPCA numbers create the possibility of cuts beyond
the July meeting,” Rostagno said in a telephone interview from
 Sao Paulo . “It gives tranquility to the central bank to leave
the door open to continue cutting in August. The Selic could go
below 7.5 percent or even 7 percent by the end of the year.”  Half-Point Cuts  Brazil plans to maintain the pace of rate reductions at
half-point intervals, a government official familiar with the
bank’s deliberations said on July 4. Policy makers have lowered
the Selic 400 basis points since August.  Brazil’s  annual inflation  has slowed from 7.31 percent in
October 2011, while remaining above the central bank’s 4.5
percent target since September 2010. Central bank President
Alexandre Tombini has repeatedly said inflation will converge to
the target by year-end even as the government attempts to kick
the economy into gear with stimulus spending, tax cuts and lower
borrowing costs.  “The impact of the rate cuts will be a little delayed,”
said  Roberto Padovani , chief economist at Votorantim Ctvm Ltda,
in a telephone interview from Sao Paulo. “Brazil will probably
feel more inflationary pressure in 2013, when the economy gets
going again.”  Three of nine consumer price categories experienced
deflation in June, led by a 1.18 percent decline in
transportation costs that reflected lower gasoline prices.  The yield on interest rate future contracts maturing in
January 2014, the most traded in Sao Paulo today, fell three
basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 7.88 percent at 11:26
a.m. local time. The real fell 1 percent to 2.0399 per  U.S.
dollar .  Brazil’s gross domestic product expanded 2.7 percent in
2011, down from 7.5 percent in 2010. Analysts have reduced their
2012 growth forecast for eight straight weeks to 2.05 percent,
according to the latest central bank survey.  Lower Taxes  President  Dilma Rousseff ’s administration has lowered taxes
on  consumer goods  ranging from cars to home appliances to spark
demand. When Petroleo Brasileiro SA, Brazil’s state-controlled
oil company, announced price increases for gasoline and diesel
last month, the government eliminated the so-called Cide tax on
such fuels so consumers wouldn’t pay more at the pump.  “These measures are useful at the margin, as we saw in
terms of what’s happening in cars,” said  Tony Volpon , Nomura
Securities’ managing director and head of  emerging markets 
research for the Americas, in a telephone interview from  New
York  on July 5. “Car sales are rising. But the measures are
insufficient by themselves to take Brazil growth this year above
2 percent.”  Industrial Output  Brazil ’s industrial production fell in May for a third
month, as weakening global demand offset gains from a weaker
currency. The real has fallen 10 percent against the dollar in
the past three months, the most among 16 major currencies
tracked by Bloomberg.  As the government has tried to boost domestic demand, a
rising consumer loan default rate has raised concern that
Brazil’s credit-driven growth model could be running out of
steam.  The consumer default rate in May rose to a 30-month high in
May, reaching 8 percent, up from a revised 7.8 percent in April.
Confidence among businesses in the retail sector fell 3.7
percent in the three months ending in June from the year before,
after declining in May by 2.4 percent, according to figures
published by the Getulio Vargas Foundation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Biller in Boston at 
 dbiller1@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Malinowski in Santiago at 
 mmalinowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  