-- Bristol-Myers Gets U.S. Approval for Wider Erbitux Use
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-07-06T20:16:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/bristol-myers-gets-u-s-approval-for-wider-erbitux-use.html
Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  and  Eli
Lilly & Co. (LLY)  won U.S. regulatory approval to expand the use of
Erbitux as an initial treatment against colorectal cancer that
has spread for patients who are first given a genetic screening.  Erbitux should be taken only by patients who have used an
agency-approved test to predict whether the drug will work,
according to the  medicine’s label  posted on the  Food and Drug
Administration ’s website. The agency also cleared the
threascreen test made by Venlo, Netherlands-based  Qiagen NV (QGEN) , the
first FDA-approved diagnostic that will evaluate each patient’s
likelihood of responding to the cancer treatment, Michelle
Bolek, a spokeswoman for the agency, said in an e-mail.  Erbitux also is an initial treatment for head and neck
cancer and was previously approved to treat patients with
colorectal cancer that has spread and who have tried other
drugs. The Qiagen test is intended to weed out the 40 percent of
colorectal cancer patients who have a Kras gene mutation that
makes them unresponsive to Erbitux, according to the company.
The approvals are at least the third time in the past year the
agency has backed a cancer drug and an accompanying genetic test
to better target the most appropriate patients.  “We are proud to be helping to make health care more
effective, providing ways for payers to more efficiently use
health-care resources and, most important, making a positive
impact on the care of patients,” Qiagen Chief Executive Officer
Peer Schatz said today in a statement.  Regulatory Backing  While there are tests available that don’t require FDA
approval, Qiagen sought clearance because such government
validation benefits the product’s market potential, Schatz said
in an April earnings call. The market potential for the test is
$20 million.  “FDA is clearly making signals that they want to see more
FDA-approved products and reimbursement is also going in that
direction,” Schatz said. “So all of these things together make
us feel quite good.”  Erbitux generated $691 million in  sales  for New York-based
Bristol-Myers last year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The expanded use of the drug for colorectal cancer
isn’t expected to add much in terms of sales,  Les Funtleyder , a
 fund manager  at the hedge fund Poliwogg in New York, said.  Sales Effect  “It’s always a positive but it very rarely amounts to
anything dramatic in terms of revenue, especially for a drug
that’s been on the market a long time like Erbitux,” Funtleyder
said. Merck KGaA sells Erbitux outside the U.S.  Cancer of the colon or rectum is the fourth-most common
cancer in men and women, according to the  National Institutes of
Health . More than 143,000 people will be diagnosed with the
disease this year.  Qiagen has more than 15 projects under way to co-develop
and market companion diagnostics with drugmakers including  Amgen
Inc. (AMGN) , based in  Thousand Oaks , California, Indianapolis-based
Lilly and New York-based  Pfizer (PFE)  Inc., according to the company.  “It’s not a one-off,” Stephen Little, vice president of
personalized medicine at Qiagen, said in a telephone interview.
“It’s part of a much bigger trend in medicine.”  The next companion diagnostic Qiagen will introduce
probably will be with Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH for a  lung
cancer  treatment, Little said.  Genetic Testing  The FDA convened a meeting on the oversight of diagnostic
tests made by laboratories ranging from Madison, New Jersey-
based  Quest Diagnostics Inc. (DGX)  to small individual operations. The
agency generally hasn’t regulated tests that tended to be low
risk and were developed and performed in labs.  The FDA said more complex tests are playing an increasing
role in patient care, leading regulators to determine they may
need to review some tests before they are on the market. Labs
make many of the tests for the Kras gene mutation in use now.  “It’s appropriate to be sure these tests work well and
understand what the information means and we’re really behind
the regulators here,” Little said.  Qiagen tested its diagnostic during the final phase of
clinical trials on Erbitux for the expanded use in colorectal
cancer, he said.  About  10 percent  of marketed drugs recommend genetic
testing for optimal treatment, according to the Washington-based
Personalized Medicine Coalition, whose members include
drugmakers, diagnostic companies, patient advocacy groups and
research institutions.  The FDA approved  Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s Zelboraf for a life-
threatening form of skin cancer and Pfizer’s Xalkori to treat a
rare form of lung cancer both in August with a test to detect a
gene mutation to determine whether patients will respond to the
drugs.  Unapproved Tests  An unapproved test “undermines the approval process that
has been established to protect patients, fails to ensure that
physicians have accurate information on which to make treatment
decisions, and decreases the chances that physicians will adopt
a new therapeutic-diagnostic approach,” FDA Commissioner
 Margaret Hamburg  and National Institutes of Health Director
 Francis Collins  wrote in a July 2010 article in the New England
Journal of Medicine.  Jeffrey Shuren , director of the FDA’s Center for Devices
and Radiological Health, told senators during a November hearing
that guidelines for FDA oversight of lab-developed diagnostic
tests were under administrative review by the Office of
Management and Budget. The guidelines are still under
administrative review, said Bolek, the FDA spokeswoman.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  