-- Buy Real Versus Chilean Currency to Hedge Downturn, Moran Says
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2012-07-06T15:29:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/buy-real-versus-chilean-currency-to-hedge-downturn-moran-says.html
Investors who expect the global
economy to keep slowing may profit by selling the Chilean peso
and buying  Brazil ’s real,  Mike Moran , a strategist at Standard
Chartered Plc in  New York , said yesterday in a phone interview.  The Chilean peso appreciated to a six-year high against the
euro today on a closing basis, indicating the Andean currency,
which closely tracks the country’s main export, copper, may be
overvalued, Moran said.  Colombia ’s peso rose to a 10-year high
against the euro today.  Moran was the top forecaster of Latin American currencies
in the 18 months through December 2011, according to Bloomberg
rankings. He has an overweight recommendation on the Peruvian
sol, an underweight on the Chilean and Mexican pesos and market-
weight recommendations on the real and the Colombian peso.  On  Chile ’s Economic Risk:  “As a small, open economy, Chile’s starting to look a
little at risk. Copper may test its lows for the year again and
that’s not especially good for Chile, and there are more and
more signs that  China  is slowing more than expected. If you’re
looking for a bearish Chile position, long real, short peso
could be better. You’re going to get the Brazilian central bank
defending the real around 2.09, 2.10 and 2.11 per dollar while
the Chileans would let the peso go to 520 per dollar.”  On Colombia’s Peso:  “The Colombian peso is a pretty strong story and it has
performed very well in the last couple of months. So I can see
the benefits of being long in Colombian pesos and funding it in
euros. The problem is that as the Colombian peso approaches
1,750 per dollar you could expect the central bank to step up
the rhetoric.”  On Euro as Funding Currency:  “There seems to be an increasing consensus around using
the euro as a funding currency.”  On  Mexico ’s Peso:  “On the Mexican peso, we like the local story, which has
been resilient and has fed off the U.S. data quite well. The
election removes some of the uncertainty and is probably a
positive as the PRI may have more success in coming up with a
reform agenda.  ‘‘The fly in the ointment is Mexico’s correlation with
global risk parameters like the S&P, the Vix and the euro. The
Mexican peso tends to get hit regardless of how well the
domestic economy is doing.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  