-- HTC Profit Slide Continues Amid Apple, Samsung Competition
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 2012-07-06T08:28:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/htc-second-quarter-profit-nt-7-4-billion-third-straight-drop.html
HTC Corp. (2498) , Asia’s second-largest
smartphone maker, posted its third consecutive drop in profit
after cutting its revenue forecast amid competition from  Apple
Inc. (AAPL)  and Samsung Electronics Co.  Second-quarter  net income  declined 58 percent from a year
earlier to NT$7.4 billion ($247 million), the Taoyuan, Taiwan-
based company said in a statement on its  website  today. The
average of 13  analysts’ estimates  compiled by Bloomberg after
the company last month cut its guidance was for profit of
NT$7.59 billion.  HTC slashed its sales forecast for the second time in three
quarters after the maker of One, Sensation and Desire handsets
suffered from steeper competition in  Europe  and shipments into
the U.S. were delayed. New models from Samsung and Apple in the
second half could hamper efforts by HTC to regain sales and
market share.  “We expect HTC to continue to see severe ASP and margin
pressure and a potential risk of running into operating losses
in 2013,” Citigroup Inc. Taipei-based analysts  Kevin Chang  and
Jonathan Gu wrote in a July 5 report, referring to average
selling price. “HTC is likely to survive in the long term but
things are likely to get much worse before they get better.”  Revenue for the quarter dropped 27 percent from a year
earlier to NT$91 billion, compared with the NT$91.3 billion
average of nine analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg and
HTC’s revised  guidance  of NT$91 billion.  Samsung’s Profit  HTC lost 5.2 percent to NT$322 at the close of trade today
in Taipei before the earnings announcement, taking its slide
this year to 35 percent after dropping 42 percent last year. The
stock is rated sell by 21 of 37 analysts compiled by Bloomberg,
with four recommending buy and 12 saying hold.  Earlier today, Samsung reported a better-than-estimated 79
percent increase in operating profit on higher sales of its
Galaxy smartphone.  HTC replaced its Chief Financial Officer in April and last
month announced the closure of offices in  Brazil  and  North
Carolina  after posting a record profit drop in the first
quarter.  Weaker-than-expected sales in Europe were the main reason
for the forecast cut while a delay in the U.S., where customs
officials checked for patent-infringements against Apple, also
hurt revenue, new CFO Chang Chialin said in a  conference call 
last month.  New Models  New models which are tailored for China have helped it
continue boosting sales in the world’s largest mobile phone
market. Its models climbed to 4.8 percent of the market in May,
Barclays Plc wrote in a July 4 note citing data from SINO-MR.
HTC had 2.7 percent of the market in the first quarter,
 according  to the Beijing-based researcher.  “ China  is the fastest growing market and also the most
important market for HTC given that it has lost market shares in
the U.S. and Europe,” Barclays’ Taipei-based analyst Dale Gai
wrote. “HTC could face more severe price competition because
its current low-end models lag the functionality of those of its
China competitors.”  HTC no longer provides shipment numbers, and will provide
third-quarter guidance and discuss second-quarter results in a
conference call to be held later this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net . 