-- Canada Dollar Declines as U.S. Employment Growth Trails Forecast
-- B y   L i n d s e y   R u p p
-- 2012-07-06T21:08:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/canada-dollar-extends-losses-as-u-s-jobs-growth-trails-forecast.html
The Canadian dollar weakened against
its U.S. counterpart even as a report showed  employment
increased  faster than forecast in the world’s 10th-largest
economy.  The loonie, as the currency is nicknamed, strengthened
versus most of its 16 major peers after the nation’s payrolls
rose by 7,300 in June,  Statistics Canada  said today from Ottawa,
and the jobless rate fell to 7.2 percent from 7.3 percent in
May. Employers in the U.S. hired fewer workers than forecast in
June, showing the labor market is making scant progress toward
reducing joblessness in America, which is Canada’s largest
trading partner.  “Global factors dominate for the Canadian dollar,” said
Andrew Cox, a currency strategist in  New York  at Citigroup Inc.
“A situation where the global economy is growing slowly, but
not decelerating enough to warrant further unorthodoxy from the
Fed, is likely a U.S. dollar-positive scenario.”  Canada’s dollar fell 0.5 percent to C$1.0196 per  U.S.
dollar  at 5 p.m. in Toronto. One Canadian dollar buys 98.08 U.S.
cents.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.9 percent and
futures on crude oil, Canada’s largest export, tumbled 3.5
percent to $84.14 a barrel in New York.  Bonds Gain  Government bonds  rose, with the yield on the nation’s 10-
year benchmark bonds dropping three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, 1.69 percent. The  Bank of Canada  will sell
C$3.4 billion ($3.3 billion) of five-year notes on July 11. The
bonds mature Sept. 1, 2017 and carry a coupon of 1.5 percent.  Today’s jobs data add to evidence Canada’s economy picked
up momentum in the second quarter, following a slowdown that
began at the end of last year. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg
predicted the  unemployment rate  would remain unchanged and
employment would rise 5,000.  “It’s a mixed report, not bad news, but far from great
news,” Citigroup’s Cox said. “The particulars of the report
will likely have only a minor influence on the trajectory of the
Canadian dollar in the coming weeks.”  Canada’s economy expanded at an annualized pace of 1.9
percent during the past two quarters, after averaging growth of
3 percent growth since the country emerged from its recession in
2009. The country has added 155,500 jobs since February.  Central Bank  Investors have been paring bets Bank of Canada Governor
 Mark Carney  will lower  interest rates  as concerns over Europe’s
debt crisis ease. Swaps trading suggest investors are pricing in
a 31 percent chance that Carney will lower borrowing costs by at
least 25 basis points this year, down from 76 percent odds on
June 1.  Carney has held the benchmark rate at 1 percent since
September 2010, the longest pause since the 1950s. The BOC will
update its forecasts in a monetary policy report to be published
July 18.  The loonie reached a two-year high against the euro
yesterday as the  European Central Bank  cut interest rates to
stimulate the bloc’s economies yesterday, while China cut
interest rates for the second time in a month and the  Bank of
England  said it would expand its asset purchase program.  U.S. payrolls rose 80,000 last month after a 77,000
increase in May, Labor Department figures showed today in
Washington. Economists projected a 100,000 gain, according to
the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey. The unemployment
rate held at 8.2 percent.  “I think everyone expected a sluggish number,” said  John Doyle , director of markets in Washington at currency-trading
firm Tempus Consulting Inc., said in a telephone interview.
“There’s really no reason to be owning higher-yielding
currencies this week.”  The loonie has gained 2 percent this year among 10
developed-nation currencies in Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Indexes, with the U.S. dollar also adding 1.8 percent.  -- Editors:  Paul Cox , Greg Storey  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsey Rupp in New York at 
 lrupp2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  