-- Canada May Building Permits Report (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2012-07-06T12:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/canada-may-building-permits-report-text-.html
Following is the text of the
May building permits report from  Statistics Canada .  Municipalities issued building permits worth $7.0 billion
in May, a 7.4% increase from April and the highest level since
May 2007. The increase followed a 4.4% decline in April.  The gain in May was largely the result of higher
construction intentions for institutional buildings in  Alberta ,
British Columbia and Saskatchewan, and for multi-family
dwellings in British Columbia.  The value of residential building permits increased 8.5% to
$4.1 billion, following four consecutive monthly declines. The
advance recorded in the residential sector came from five
provinces, led by British Columbia, Ontario and Alberta.  Non-residential construction intentions rose 6.0% to $2.9
billion after a 7.0% decline the previous month. The increase
was the result of higher construction intentions in six
provinces, led by Saskatchewan and British Columbia.  Residential sector: Intentions up for both multi-family and
single-family dwellings  The value of permits for multi-family dwellings rose 17.7%
to $1.8 billion, the second monthly increase since the beginning
of the year. The gain was mainly attributable to higher
construction intentions in British Columbia, Ontario and  Nova
Scotia .  Contractors took out $2.3 billion worth of single-family
dwelling permits, up 2.1% following four consecutive monthly
decreases. Increases in Alberta and Ontario offset declines in
six other provinces.  Nationwide, municipalities authorized the construction of
18,682 new dwellings in May, a 13.2% increase from April. The
gain was particulary attributable to multi-family dwellings,
which increased 22.0% to 11,801 units. Single-family dwellings
rose 0.9% to 6,881 units.  Non-residential sector: Significant increase in the
institutional component  In the institutional component, the value of permits
increased 69.4% to $945 million after falling 42.7% in April.
All provinces registered increases, except Ontario and
Newfoundland and Labrador. The increase was largely a result of
higher construction intentions for medical facilities in British
Columbia, government buildings in Alberta and Saskatchewan, and
educational institutions in  Quebec  and Alberta.  The value of permits in the commercial component fell 12.4%
to $1.4 billion in May, following three consecutive monthly
advances. The largest declines occurred in Alberta and British
Columbia and were a result of lower construction intentions for
office buildings, which had posted significant gains in April.
Ontario and New Brunswick reported decreases as a result of
lower construction intentions for a variety of buildings,
including retail buildings, warehouses and recreational
facilities.  In the industrial component, the value of building permits
declined 4.5% to $549 million, following a 40.0% increase in
April. This was a result of lower construction intentions for
manufacturing plants and transportation-related buildings, which
had recorded increases the previous month. Declines were posted
in five provinces, led by Quebec, Manitoba and British Columbia.  Intentions up in British Columbia, Saskatchewan and Alberta  The value of building permits increased in seven provinces
in May, led by British Columbia, Saskatchewan and Alberta.  The increase in British Columbia was the result of higher
construction intentions for multi-family dwellings and
institutional buildings. In Saskatchewan, the gain was
attributable to higher construction intentions for non-
residential buildings, particularly institutional structures.
The increase in Alberta came from institutional, residential and
industrial buildings.  Quebec posted the largest decrease, mainly as a result of
lower construction intentions for industrial buildings and
single-family dwellings. The decline in  New Brunswick  came
particularly from commercial and industrial buildings and multi-
family dwellings.  Permits value up in half of census metropolitan areas  In May, the total value of permits rose in 17 of the 34
census metropolitan areas.  The largest increases occurred in  Vancouver ,  Edmonton  and
Ottawa. In Vancouver, the gain was mainly attributable to multi-
family dwellings and institutional buildings. In Edmonton,
residential and institutional buildings accounted for most of
the advance. Higher construction intentions for institutional
and commercial buildings and multi-family dwellings were largely
behind the increase in Ottawa.  Calgary, Thunder Bay and Montréal posted the biggest
declines. In Calgary, the decrease came from commercial
buildings and, to a lesser degree, institutional buildings.  In Thunder Bay, the decline was attributable to
institutional buildings, which had recorded a significant
increase in the previous month. Lower construction intentions
for commercial, industrial and residential buildings were behind
the decline in Montréal.  Note to readers  Unless otherwise stated, this release presents seasonally
adjusted data, which facilitates comparisons by removing the
effects of seasonal variations.  The Building Permits Survey covers 2,400 municipalities
representing 95% of the population. It provides an early
indication of building activity.  The communities representing the other 5% of the population
are very small, and their levels of building activity have
little impact on the total.  The value of planned construction activities shown in this
release excludes engineering projects (for example, waterworks,
sewers or culverts) and land.  For the purpose of this release, the census metropolitan
area of Ottawa-Gatineau (Ontario/Quebec) is divided into two
areas: Gatineau part and Ottawa part.  Revision  Preliminary data are provided for the current reference
month. Revised data, based on late responses, are updated for
the previous month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  