-- McCafferty Will Succeed Posen on BOE Rate-Setting Committee
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-07-06T13:42:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/mccafferty-will-succeed-posen-on-boe-rate-setting-committee-1-.html
Ian McCafferty , chief economic
adviser at the  Confederation of British Industry , will join the
Bank of  England ’s Monetary Policy Committee as the panel regains
a business specialist after a year without one.  McCafferty, 56, will start at the central bank on Sept. 1,
replacing Adam Posen, the U.K. Treasury in  London  said in a
statement today. The CBI, Britain’s biggest business lobby
group, hasn’t said who will take over the economics role.  McCafferty replaces one of the Bank of England’s most vocal
policy makers and one who led calls for more than a year for the
MPC to expand stimulus until it restarted its bond-purchase
program last October. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne , who appointed McCafferty, said his experience working
with companies may help with some of the trials facing Britain
as it struggles to shake off a recession.  “We assume he is broadly in agreement with the path that
the MPC is taking, but will not be the cheerleader for it that
 Adam Posen  was,” said Philip Rush, an economist at Nomura
International Plc in London. He will become “the closest thing
to an industrialist the MPC has,” he said, adding it was too
early to forecast what policy stance McCafferty might take.  Posen, 45, is leaving after one three-year term as an
external member of the MPC to become president of the Peter G.
Peterson Institute for International Economics in  Washington .
The announcement in May of his departure lengthened the list of
key central bank staff that Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne had to appoint in the next year.  Academics Leaving  In addition to Governor Mervyn King, who is retiring after
the maximum two five-year terms at the end of June 2013, Deputy
Governor  Charles Bean ’s term ends the same month. They, along
with Posen, have academic backgrounds.  “I had been expecting them to try and appoint an academic
on the basis that they’ve lost Posen and are set to lose  Mervyn
King  and Charlie Bean,” said Richard Barwell, an economist at
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc and a former Bank of England
official.  The last business specialist on the MPC was  Andrew Sentance , who left at the end of May 2011. McCafferty has been
the CBI’s chief economic adviser since 2001. He was formerly
head of macroeconomics at  BP Plc (BP/)  and Director of International
Economics for Natwest Markets. He has a degree in economics from
the University of Durham and a post-graduate diploma in European
economics from the University of Amsterdam.  “His broad professional experience in business and
industry, as well as his knowledge of the U.K. economy, will be
extremely valuable to the committee in dealing with the
challenges it faces now and in the future,” Osborne said.  External Members  As a so-called external member of the nine-person MPC,
McCafferty will be one of four part-time appointees who vote on
the quantitative-easing program and set  interest rates . King and
Bean are among the five full-time bank staff setting policy.  During his time, Posen’s pronouncements often presaged
shifts in officials’ stance. He led calls to expand stimulus
from September 2010 and spent the next year pushing alone to
increase the size of the  QE program . His colleagues joined him
in voting unanimously to restart asset purchases in October as
the euro-area crisis worsened and Britain’s economy slipped back
into a recession.  In September, Posen proposed the creation of a new public
institution that would increase credit to small- and medium-
sized companies as banks continued to curtail lending after the
financial crisis. The  Bank of England  and the Treasury last
month unveiled plans for a program to increase lending.  McCafferty’s View  McCafferty said in May that the CBI expected the U.K.
recovery “to be on a firmer footing in the second half of the
year, as inflation eases and the global economy strengthens.”
He added that while inflation had been higher than expected, it
should fall toward the central bank’s 2 percent target by the
spring of 2013. In January last year, he said the Bank of
England will probably have to raise its  benchmark rate  by the
middle of 2011 as inflationary pressures build. The rate has
been at a record low of 0.5 percent since March 2009.  “At a time when the private sector is so vital to the
future of the British economy, it is good news that Ian’s
excellent understanding of the economy will be available to the
bank,” CBI Director-General  John Cridland  said in an e-mailed
statement.  A panel comprising Dave Ramsden and Tom Scholar from the
Treasury and  Kate Barker , an external MPC member between 2001
and 2010, interviewed candidates and made recommendations to
Osborne. Twenty-nine applications were received, of which seven
were from women. There have been no women on the MPC since
Barker left and the Treasury said it would like to see a greater
number of women apply for future appointments.  There is a history of movement between the CBI and the Bank
of England. Both Barker and Sentance worked at the business
lobby before joining the Bank of England, while  Richard Lambert 
became director general of the CBI after leaving the MPC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  