-- CFTC Said to Exempt Banks Under $10 Billion From Clearing
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2012-07-06T16:23:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/cftc-said-to-exempt-banks-under-10-billion-from-clearing-1-.html
The U.S.  Commodity Futures Trading
Commission  is poised to exempt banks with assets of less than
$10 billion from Dodd-Frank Act requirements to guarantee swap
trades at clearinghouses, two people briefed on the matter said.  The CFTC, the main U.S. derivatives regulator, is scheduled
to consider a final rule July 10 allowing those banks and other
companies an exception from the 2010 law’s clearing mandate
designed to limit risk in trades, the people said on condition
of anonymity because the plan hasn’t been made public. The
agency’s five commissioners are also scheduled to propose an
exemption for farm credit banks and other cooperatives, the
people said. The rules could change before the vote.  “We understand and appreciate that the CFTC plans to
provide a clearing exemption for banks, but we believe a risk-
based measurement is more appropriate because it will better
reflect potential risk to the market,” Diana Preston, vice
president and senior counsel at the American Bankers
Association, said in a telephone interview today.  Banks with as much as $50 billion in assets have urged the
CFTC to exempt them from the clearing requirement, saying that
their trades don’t pose the financial-system risk the law meant
to reduce. Dodd-Frank was enacted after largely unregulated
swaps helped fuel the credit crisis and the bailout of companies
including insurer  American International Group Inc. (AIG)   Clearinghouses’ Role  Clearinghouses reduce risk in derivatives by accepting
collateral from buyers and sellers to guarantee their trades.  Steven Adamske , spokesman for the CFTC, declined to comment
on the exceptions yesterday.  Lenders including Los Angeles-based City National Bank, San
Antonio-based Frost National Bank  and  Susquehanna Bancshares
Inc. (SUSQ)  of Lititz, Pennsylvania, have told regulators they should
be considered swaps end-users, which rely on the products to
hedge or mitigate their commercial risks.  “These small institutions use derivatives in a limited --
but necessary -- fashion,” U.S. Senator Robert Casey told the
CFTC in an Aug. 2 letter. “Small institutions do not engage in
trades of the size or scope necessary to create systemic risk,”
the Pennsylvania Democrat wrote.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Bank of
America Corp. ,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  controlled 96
percent of cash and derivatives trading for U.S. bank holding
companies as of March 31, according to the Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency.  Dodd-Frank calls for most derivatives trades to be moved
into clearinghouses. The law authorizes the CFTC to consider
exempting banks and other financial institutions with assets of
$10 billion or less. Congressional lawmakers have told
regulators that the asset threshold is flexible.  The CFTC is also scheduled to hold a final vote on July 10
on a joint rule determining which derivatives are considered
swaps and are subject to new Dodd-Frank rules.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  