-- Chilean Inflation Estimates Plummet on June CPI Surprise
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d   a n d   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 2012-07-06T18:42:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/chilean-inflation-estimates-plummet-on-june-cpi-surprise.html
Chilean breakeven inflation rates
plunged and traders started betting on deflation through August
after consumer prices unexpectedly dropped last month.  One-year breakeven, a measure of swaps traders’
expectations for average future price rises, fell 21 basis
points to a two-year low of 2.07 percent at 2:21 p.m. in
Santiago. Two-year breakeven inflation fell 12 basis points to
2.31 percent. A drop in  interest-rate swaps  signaled traders
expect the central bank to lower borrowing costs  faster and
sooner  than they did yesterday.  Consumer prices fell 0.3 percent in June, confounding
economists whose  median estimate  was for a 0.1 percent rise in
prices. The steepest decline in prices since 2009 came after
Chilean economic growth accelerated in May to 5.3 percent.  “This was a surprise,” said Benjamin Sierra, financial
markets economist at Scotiabank  Chile  in Santiago. “We’re
seeing very strong deflationary pressure coming from abroad,
principally from food and fuel.”  The Chilean peso fell 0.6 percent to 498.45 per  U.S.
dollar , trimming its weekly gain to 0.5 percent.  The cost of living dropped as the price of oil fell. The
price of West Texas Intermediate crude oil expressed in pesos
fell 12 percent to an average 41,810 pesos per barrel in June
from an average 47,534 pesos per barrel in May. Annual inflation
will end 2012 at 1.48 percent, according to the forwards market
today.  Prices fell in eight of the 12 areas the government
measures in its consumer price survey, the National Statistics
Institute said in today’s report. Clothing and footwear prices
led the decline, falling 2.2 percent from the previous month,
followed by a 1.1 percent drop in utilities and 0.5 percent fall
in transportation, it said.  Rate Cut  The one-year interest-rate swap fell nine basis points to
4.62 percent today. The two-year rate fell nine basis points to
4.44 percent. Swap rates reflect expectations for average future
 interest rates , and having  all the maturities  between three
months and 10 years below the current rate of 5 percent shows
traders expect the central bank to cheapen borrowing costs.  Traders in the forwards market for unidades de fomento,
Chile’s inflation-linked accounting unit, had bet on a June
price decline while economists estimated an increase.  Annual inflation may slow to 1.35 percent in February
before rising again toward the central bank’s target of 3
percent, according to forwards prices today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net ;
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  