-- China’s Developers Surge After Interest Rate Cut: Shanghai Mover
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-07-06T08:25:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/china-s-developers-surge-after-interest-rate-cut-shanghai-mover.html
China’s property shares rose the most
in four months after the nation’s central bank cut  interest
rates  for the second time in a month to bolster the country’s
economic growth.  The  gauge  tracking developers on the Shanghai Composite
Index added 3.5 percent, the most since March and the biggest
gain among five industry groups on the benchmark, at the close
of trading. China Vanke Co., the biggest listed developer on the
mainland, climbed 3.9 percent to 9.65 yuan in Shenzhen, the
highest since November 2010.  Poly Real Estate Group Co. (600048) , the
second largest, surged 5 percent to 12.82 yuan, the highest in 2
1/2 years.  China cut its benchmark interest rates yesterday as the
country moves more aggressively to promote growth. Last month’s
rate cut was the first since 2008, after the government imposed
curbs designed to cool the property market in the past two years
that included higher mortgage rates and down-payment
requirements.  “The momentum of the property market had already picked up
as developers reported good June sales,” said  Nicole Wong , a
Hong Kong-based property analyst at CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets.
“The second round of interest rates cut will just drive the
momentum better and better.”  China Vanke said July 4 its contracted sales were 13.3
billion yuan ($2.1 billion) last month, a 24 percent jump from
May.  Longfor Properties Co. (960)  reported yesterday that June sales
rose 36 percent from May.  In Hong Kong, five of the 10 best performers on the  MSCI
China Index (MXCN)  were Chinese developers.  Sino-Ocean Land Holdings
Ltd. (3377)  jumped 5 percent to a four-month high of HK$4.38.
 Evergrande Real Estate Group (3333) , China’s biggest developer by sales
volume, rose the most in a month, adding 6.6 percent to HK$4.39.  Curbs Intact  Still, the central bank signaled the government isn’t
relaxing restrictions on the  property market .  “All financial institutions must continue to strictly
implement a differentiated housing credit policy to continue
curbing property buying for speculation and investment
purposes,” the central bank said in its interest-rate statement
yesterday.  Jinsong Du, a Hong Kong-based property analyst at Credit
Suisse Group AG, in a note to clients yesterday wrote investors
or speculators will increasingly re-enter the housing market,
pushing up housing prices “meaningfully in the next few
months.”  “It may trigger the government to implement new measures
to curb housing prices around late September or early October,
depending on the economy status,” he said.  --Bonnie Cao. Editor: Malcolm Scott, Tomoko Yamazaki  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  