-- China Swaps Fall, Yuan Weakens After Rate Cut: Shanghai Mover
-- B y   F i o n   L i   a n d   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2012-07-06T09:03:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/china-swaps-fall-most-in-a-month-after-rate-cut-shanghai-mover.html
China ’s  interest-rate swaps  fell the
most in four weeks after the central bank cut  interest rates  for
the second time in a month, while the yuan dropped ahead of data
forecast to show slowing growth.  The People’s Bank of China lowered the one-year lending
rate 31 basis points to 6 percent late yesterday and the one-
year deposit rate 25 basis points to 3 percent, effective today.
The monetary authority  pumped  225 billion yuan ($35.3 billion)
into the financial system this week, the biggest injection since
January, by conducting reverse-repurchase operations, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Consumer prices  climbed 2.3 percent
in June from a year earlier, the least in 29 months, according
to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of economists
before an official report on July 9.  “The PBOC is likely to put forward a combination of tools,
with the rate cuts showing its stance to support the economy,
and liquidity tools to release funds,” said  Frances Cheung , a
Credit Agricole CIB strategist in  Hong Kong . “The policy-rate
cuts, ahead of a slew of economic data releases next week, may
not be taken sanguinely by the markets.”  The one-year swap rate, the fixed cost to receive the
seven-day repurchase rate, fell 11 basis points, or 0.11
percentage point, to 2.46 percent as of 16:31 a.m. in  Shanghai ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the biggest one-
day drop since June 8, when the PBOC’s first interest-rate cut
in three years became effective. The rate fell 13 basis points
from June 29, a second weekly decline.  Slower Growth  The  seven-day repurchase rate , a gauge of funding
availability in the financial system, fell 54 basis points to
3.48 percent, according to a weighted average compiled by the
National Interbank Funding Center. That’s the biggest drop since
Feb. 27. The yield on the five-year  government bonds  declined
five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 2.76 percent,
according to the Interbank Funding Center.  Growth in the world’s second-largest economy probably
slowed to 7.7 percent in the second quarter from 8.1 percent in
the preceding three months, according to a Bloomberg survey of
economists ahead of official data due July 13. That would be the
least since the first quarter of 2009. Export growth is expected
to slow to 10.6 percent in June from a year earlier, compared
with 15.3 percent in May, according to another Bloomberg survey
before a report next week.  China will cut interest rates twice more this year, by 25
basis points each time, Lu Ting, head of greater China economics
at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in Hong Kong, wrote in a note
to clients today. Lu also expects banks’ reserve-requirement
ratios to be lowered by 150 basis points before year-end.  Weaker Yuan  The  yuan  weakened 0.13 percent to close at 6.3644 per
dollar in Shanghai, according to the China Foreign Exchange
Trade System. It fell 0.16 percent from June 29, the first
decline in four weeks. One-month implied volatility, a measure
of exchange-rate swings used to price options, was unchanged at
1.58 percent. The PBOC lowered the  reference rate  by 0.09
percent to 6.3249. The currency is allowed to trade as much as 1
percent on either side of the daily fixing.  The Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback against the
currencies of six major trading partners, has  climbed  1.2
percent in two days as China’s rate cut and one by the  European
Central Bank  failed to assure investors that the moves would be
enough to boost global economic growth.  “The yuan’s outlook will be obviously even dimmer given
the recognition of a softer domestic economy and a stronger
dollar,” said Andy Ji, a Singapore-based strategist at
 Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) , the most-accurate forecaster of
the yuan in the past six quarters. Ji said in a separate
interview this week that he’s currently reviewing forecasts for
the yuan and will probably trim estimates as he expected the
PBOC to curb gains.  In Hong Kong’s offshore market, the yuan dropped 0.16
percent to 6.3658 per dollar, the lowest level in more than a
week. Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards slipped 0.12 percent
to 6.4105, a 0.72 percent discount to the onshore spot rate.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net ;
Kyoungwha Kim in Beijing at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  