-- China Banks Drop as Rate Cut, Looser Loan Rules Hurt Profit
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-07-06T04:46:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/china-banks-tumble-as-rate-cut-looser-loan-rules-squeeze-profit.html
Chinese  banking shares  tumbled in
 Hong Kong  and  Shanghai  after the central bank cut interest rates
for the second time in a month and allowed a deeper discount on
the lending rate, squeezing margins.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd ., the nation’s
largest, dropped 1.4 percent to HK$4.23 as of 12:00 p.m. break
in Hong Kong, and lost 1 percent in Shanghai.  China Construction
Bank Corp. (939) , the second biggest, fell 2.3 percent in Hong Kong
and Bank of Communications Co., the fifth largest, declined 3.1
percent after losing as much as 4.6 percent.  Shares of Chinese banks have underperformed the benchmark
 Hang Seng Index  this year and are trading close to record-low
valuations as an economic  slowdown , an increase in bad loans and
 interest-rate  liberalization threaten to curb profitability. The
central bank yesterday reduced the benchmark one-year lending
and deposit rates and allowed banks to widen the discount on
borrowing costs to 30 percent from 20 percent.  “The regulators are increasingly relying on banks to
indirectly spur corporate profitability by reducing financing
costs,” Sheng Nan, a Hong Kong-based analyst at CCB
International Securities Ltd., said in a phone interview today.
“The banking industry will need to play a greater role in
helping bolster economic growth, which may come at the expense
of the sector’s profitability.”  The People’s Bank of  China  yesterday  lowered  the one-year
deposit rate by 0.25 percentage point and the one-year lending
rate by 31 basis points.  Weaker Growth  China’s economy  may grow at 7.8 percent in the second
quarter, the weakest in three years, according to consensus
forecast in a Bloomberg survey.  Yesterday’s move may cut listed banks’ net interest margins
by 10.4 basis points and their pretax profits by 6.1 percent,
Deutsche Bank AG forecasts. About two-thirds of the impact comes
from the interest rate cut, with the rest resulting from
deregulation, analysts Tracy Yu and Judy Zhang said in a note.  China’s four biggest banks today set their one-year deposit
rate at 3.25 percent, compared with the 3 percent benchmark,
according to their websites. Lenders are allowed to pay a
maximum of 1.1 times the rate set by the central bank.  The People’s Bank of China in June cut interest rates for
the first time since 2008. The two reductions may lower banks’
average net income by 5 percent to 8 percent this year and by 24
percent to 34 percent in 2013,  Barclays Capital  said.  Economic growth has slowed for five straight quarters, with
gross domestic product expanding 8.1 percent in the three months
ended March 31. That’s the weakest in almost three years. The
government is accelerating approvals for investment projects
even as it has refrained from introducing stimulus on the scale
unleashed during the global financial crisis.  New loans this year may be as low as 7.3 trillion  yuan  to
7.5 trillion yuan, short of a target of 8 trillion yuan to 8.5
trillion yuan, according to an estimate by Mizuho Securities
 Asia  this week.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jun Luo in Shanghai at 
 jluo6@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  