-- Coking Coal Exports From U.S. May Slow on BHP Labor Accord
-- B y   M a r i o   P a r k e r
-- 2012-07-06T16:55:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/coking-coal-exports-from-u-s-may-slow-on-bhp-labor-accord.html
Coking coal exports from the U.S. may
slow after  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and labor unions in Australia
reached an accord, according to Raymond James Financial Inc.  U.S.  shipments  of the steelmaking component in the first
quarter were about 17.5 million short tons, up 2.1 percent from
a year earlier, Energy Department data show, as producers
benefited from a void caused by rolling strikes at the world’s
biggest coking coal exporter since June 2011.  BHP and the unions, after beginning mediation July 3,
agreed on a framework that will guide the finalization of an
enterprise pact, the Melbourne-based company said in an e-mailed
statement today.  “There’s the fear that this has been keeping supply out of
the market,” said Jim Rollyson, an analyst at Raymond James
Financial Inc. in Houston. “You have to assume that slows down
a bit.”  Rollyson estimates that the global benchmark contract for
coking coal could fall at least 6.7 percent to $210 a metric ton
in the next quarter from $225 a metric ton for the July-to-
September period, because of the increased supply.  Gerard McCloskey, chairman of Merlin Trade and Consultancy
Ltd and founder of IHS’s McCloskey Group, a Petersfield, U.K-
based coal-market research company, estimated June 21 that
harmony between BHP and its unions could pour an additional 20
million tons of the steelmaking fuel into the global market.  Force Majeure  The BHP Billiton Mitsubishi Alliance, or BMA, is the
world’s biggest exporter of steelmaking coal. About 3,000 miners
at seven operations stopped work for a week in March and in
April, BHP declared force majeure because of the strikes and
inclement weather.  Metallurgical coal represented 65 percent of the U.S.’s
exports of the fuel in 2011, according to Energy Department
data.  In the U.S. the component is mined in Appalachia, which
covers parts of  Kentucky ,  Ohio ,  Virginia ,  West Virginia  and
 Alabama .  The BMA joint venture supplies about 18 percent of global
coking coal exports, according to a March 22 report by Goldman
Sachs Australia Pty.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mario Parker in Chicago at 
 mparker22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 