-- Comcast Said Near $3 Billion Deal to Sell Stake in A&E
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-07-07T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/comcast-said-near-3-billion-deal-to-sell-stake-in-a-e.html
Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s  NBC Universal 
entertainment business is near an agreement to sell its 15.8
percent stake in A&E Networks for about $3 billion, according to
a person with knowledge of the talks.  NBC Universal is negotiating with  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  and
Hearst Corp., the other owners of A&E, the cable-TV company that
includes Lifetime and the History Channel, said the person, who
sought anonymity because the discussions are private.  A sale at that price would value all of A&E at about $19
billion. Comcast, based in Philadelphia, valued its stake at
$2.02 billion as of March 31, according to a quarterly filing.  “It fits in with Comcast’s strategy to sell assets which
it does not control operationally,”  Marci Ryvicker , an analyst
with Wells Fargo Securities, said yesterday in a research note.  Jennifer Khoury , a Comcast spokeswoman, declined to
comment.  The existing arrangement was created when New York-based
NBC Universal, Disney and Hearst merged the Lifetime and A&E
cable channels in 2009. The accord included a provision for NBC
to leave the partnership if it chooses and for Disney and Hearst
to become 50-50 owners. Comcast exercised its option to sell the
stake on March 26.  Comcast, the largest U.S. cable-system, declined 0.3
percent to $31.36 yesterday in New York. The shares have gained
32 percent this year. The company acquired control of NBC
Universal in January 2011 from  General Electric Co. (GE)   NBC Universal  Proceeds from the sale of A&E may help Comcast buy the 49
percent stake in NBC that GE still owns, Ryvicker said in the
note. GE can put half of its holding to Comcast in June 2014 and
the rest in January 2018, she said.  “According to our calculations, we estimate that half of
GE’s remaining stake would ‘cost’ Comcast $7 billion to $8
billion in 2014,” Ryvicker wrote.  The price of the A&E stake was reported yesterday by the
Wall Street Journal. Bloomberg News reported on May 5 that
Comcast was selling a “substantial” amount of A&E.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in  New York  at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  