-- Commodities Fall Most in Two Weeks as Demand Outlook Dims
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-07-06T20:46:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/commodities-fall-most-in-two-weeks-on-u-s-europe-economic-woes.html
Commodities fell the most in two
weeks as signs of a faltering U.S. economy and escalating debt
woes in  Europe  signaled less demand for energy and metals.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot  Index (MXWD)  of 24  raw materials 
declined 2.4 percent to settle at 605.15 at 4:17 p.m. in  New
York , the biggest decline since June 21. Crude oil and gold
dropped the most in two weeks, and industrial metals including
lead, aluminum and copper slumped.  Employers in the U.S. hired fewer workers than forecast in
June, indicting the labor market is making little progress
toward reducing joblessness, government data showed today.
Global equities extended losses, and  Spain ’s 10-year bond yields
reached 7 percent as industrial production fell for the ninth
straight month. The  dollar  rallied, eroding the appeal of raw
materials.  “We had some weakness in Europe in the form of rising
rates on Spanish debt, and then we had the disappointing payroll
number here,” Walter “Bucky” Hellwig, who helps manage $17
billion of assets at BB&T Wealth Management in Birmingham,
 Alabama , said in a telephone interview. “Going into the
weekend, it’s ‘risk off’ for commodities.”  The GSCI index has dropped 6.2 percent this year, led by
cotton, coffee and oil. The MSCI All-Country World Index has
gained 3.9 percent, and Treasuries returned 2 percent, a Bank of
America Corp. index showed.  Wheat, corn and soybeans posted the first losses in a week.
Grains surged in the past month as a heat wave in the U.S.
Midwest eroded prospects for crops.  The “whole global growth issue” on the economy means
agriculture products joined other commodities in today’s slump,
Hellwig said.  “We’re going to go into a weekend where people aren’t sure
whether it’s going to be better or worse on Monday,” Ron Lawson, a managing director at Logic Advisors, a commodity
consultant in Sonoma,  California , said in a telephone interview.
“When in doubt, you sell.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 