-- Employers Get More From U.S. Workers as Job Gains Lag
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a   a n d   R i c h   M i l l e r
-- 2012-07-07T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/companies-using-overtime-temporary-staff-to-meet-u-s-demand.html
Companies in the U.S. are relying on
existing workers and temporary employees instead of hiring,
helping to explain why payrolls grew less than forecast in June.  The average workweek rose for the first time since February
and  temporary  staffing climbed for a third consecutive month,
according to Labor Department figures issued in Washington
yesterday. The report also showed payrolls advanced by 80,000
workers, less than the median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey of economists, and the jobless rate held at 8.2 percent.  The need to boost hours and add provisional employees is a
sign that sales are holding up in the face of a deepening slump
in Europe and a slowdown in China and the rest of the world.
Nonetheless, businesses may lack conviction that revenue gains
will be sustained in light of the threats, making them reluctant
to permanently expand payrolls.  “Firms are still seeing an increase in demand, and there
is a need for more labor,” said  Nigel Gault , chief U.S.
economist at IHS Global Insight in Lexington, Massachusetts.
“But there are so many risks out there that businesses don’t
want to commit to hiring full-time employees.”  The median estimate of 84 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
projected a 100,000 gain in payrolls. Forecasts ranged from
increases of 35,000 to 165,000. The May advance in employment
was revised to 77,000 from a previously reported 69,000.  The lack of a pickup in hiring fueled concern the world’s
largest economy was slowing, pushing stocks down. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index dropped 0.9 percent, erasing a weekly gain, to
close yesterday at 1,354.68.  Longer Workweek  The average workweek climbed by six minutes to 34.5 hours
in June, the report showed. Temporary staffing rose by 25,200,
the biggest increase since February.  Candace Bailey, 24, has adapted her job-hunting strategy to
weaker employment conditions.  “I’m primarily looking for full-time, but since it’s been
a while, I’m definitely open to temporary work as well,” said
Bailey, who lost her marketing job in Washington two months ago.
“In the past two weeks or so, I’ve been definitely looking at
temporary work until I find a full-time job.”  The pickup in hours “suggests there might be a little
better momentum in the economy,” Bruce Kasman, chief economist
for JPMorgan Chase & Co. in New York, said on a conference call.
At the same time, there is “an absence of a real desire by
firms to act on that in terms of hiring.”  The increase in the average workweek would be equivalent to
a 325,000 gain in payrolls, according to estimates by economists
at Nomura Securities International Inc. headed by Lewis Alexander.  Auto Sales  Automobiles are one area where demand is holding up. Cars
and light trucks sold at a 14.1 million annual rate in June, up
from May’s 13.7 million pace, Ward’s Automotive Group data
showed.  General Motors Co. (GM) ,  Ford Motor Co. (F)  and Chrysler Group
LLC reported U.S. sales that topped analysts’ estimates, helping
the industry surpass projections and stay on pace for the best
year since 2007.  “We’re seeing strong demand for our current products as
well as for our new models,”  Bill Krueger , vice chairman of the
Americas for Nissan Motor Co., said in a telephone interview
yesterday. The Yokohama, Japan-based automaker plans to boost
hours, add shifts or increase payrolls at plants in Tennessee
and Mississippi “to really have the supply catch up with
demand,” he said.  Manufacturers were among those asking existing employees to
put in a longer workweek last month.  Factory overtime  climbed to
4.7 hours in June on average, the most in five years,
yesterday’s report showed.  Hourly Earnings  In another bright spot, workers’ average hourly earnings
rose to $23.50 in June from $23.44 in the prior month,
yesterday’s report showed.  “For the 92 percent of folks who have jobs, their incomes
are rising, raises are still happening,” said  Chris Varvares ,
senior managing director of Macroeconomic Advisers LLC in  St.
Louis .  Consumers are benefiting from falling gasoline prices and
lower inflation. The cost of living dropped in May by the most
in more than three years, Labor Department figures showed last
month. A gallon of regular  fuel  at the pump cost an average
$3.36 as of July 5, down from this year’s peak of $3.94 in early
April, according to AAA, the biggest U.S. auto group.  Retailers reported this week that same-store sales rose 0.3
percent in June from a year earlier, based on results from more
than 20 companies tracked by Retail Metrics Inc. Luxury chains
such as  Saks Inc. (SKS)  and discounters like TJX Cos. topped analysts’
expectations, while stores targeting middle-income consumers
trailed projections.  Lowe’s Cos.  “What we are seeing today from an income perspective is
our economy is modestly adding jobs,”  Robert Hull , chief
financial officer at Lowe’s Cos., the second-largest U.S. home-
improvement retailer, said at a June 26 consumer conference in
 Boston . “That’s the good news. The bad news is it’s not
sufficient to have a material impact on the  unemployment rate .”  The “mixed” jobs report suggests that Federal Reserve
policy makers are unlikely to take further action to boost the
economy at their next meeting, such as a third round of so-
called quantitative easing, said  David Greenlaw , a managing
director and economist at Morgan Stanley in New York.  “We don’t think the report was quite bad enough to tip the
scales toward doing something like QE3,” Greenlaw said. “But I
certainly think there’s plenty of fodder for discussion and
definitely some indication that the Fed needs to be more worried
about prospects for growth going forward.”  Presidential Election  Yesterday’s report deprived President  Barack Obama  of
progress on voters’ overriding concern with just four months
before the election.  Obama, speaking yesterday at a campaign stop in Poland,
Ohio, called the addition of new jobs “a step in the right
direction” though the economy has to grow “even faster.”  Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  called the
report “another kick in the gut.”  While Romney has suggested that Obama has done a worse job
managing the economy than President  Jimmy Carter , investors have
given the U.S. a vote of confidence.  The  S&P 500  has surged 68 percent under Obama, more than
three times the 19 percent increase during Carter’s first 3-1/2
years in office starting in 1977.  Although unemployment is higher than the 7.5 percent level
in May 1980, inflation is lower. Consumer prices rose 1.7 in May
from a year earlier, compared with a 14.4 percent increase in
May 1980.  Longest Stretch  Still, unemployment has exceeded 8 percent since February
2009, the longest such stretch since monthly records began in
1948.  Among those also having trouble finding full-time work is
 Dave Marshall  of Tampa,  Florida . The 23-year-old Army reservist,
who works part-time for two security firms in the area, said he
has been unable to find a job that utilizes his degree in
sociology from the University of Florida in Gainesville.  “I am getting edged out by people with experience,”
Marshall said. “There have been some entry-level positions that
I have applied for, but the economy is so bad that the people
who have been let go are also applying for entry-level positions
and a lot of them have two, three years of experience.”  Nicole Sandler, 52, lost her job at Air America in January
2010 when the radio station closed. She was ineligible for
 unemployment benefits  because she was a contractor.  Temporary Jobs  Sandler moved in with her fiance in Coral Springs, Florida,
in April 2011 when she lost her house in Miami. She gets about
$1,000 a month from a webcast she puts together five nights a
week and takes temporary radio jobs when she can get them.  “I work but I’m still technically unemployed,” said
Sandler. “I guess I could try to find a job doing something
else, but at 52 to take an entry-level job I may as well do what
I’m doing. What am I going to do, work in a supermarket?”  The jobs figures showed private employment, which excludes
government agencies, increased 84,000 in June, the weakest in 10
months. Retailers cut payrolls by 5,400, while manufacturers
added 11,000 workers.  The report “reminds everyone that confidence matters,”
said  Joel Naroff , president of Naroff Economic Advisors in
Holland, Pennsylvania. “In June, the European debt issue
reached a boil and a meltdown could not be ruled out. That had
to have a major impact on business confidence.”  Uncertainty about the U.S. government’s fiscal outlook may
also be hampering hiring plans. Congress has yet to resolve the
so-called fiscal cliff, which represents more than $600 billion
in higher taxes and reductions in defense and other government
programs in 2013 that will take place without action.  The best strategy for companies to follow when confronted
with such uncertainty ahead of Dec. 31 is to “stay lean and
keep your inventories taut,” Sandy Cutler, chief executive
officer of industrial equipment-maker  Eaton Corp. (ETN)  in Cleveland,
told a conference May 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rich Miller in Washington at 
 rmiller28@bloomberg.net 
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  