-- Congo Rebels Kill UN Peacekeeper in Raid on Border Town
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 2012-07-06T15:42:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/congo-rebels-kill-un-peacekeeper-in-raid-on-border-town-1-.html
Rebels in the  Democratic Republic  of
Congo killed a United Nations peacekeeper as they fought the
national army for control of a key town on the Ugandan border, a
UN official said.  An Indian peacekeeper was killed by an exploding shell in
the town of Bunagana during the fighting today, Madnodje
Mounoubai, a spokesman for the UN peacekeeping mission in Congo
said by phone from Kinshasa, the capital.  Rebel leader Colonel Sultani Makenga said in an e-mailed
statement his troops conquered Bunagana and its surroundings in
the morning.  “We remind the government that our intention is not to
conquer land, much less pursue war,” Makenga said. “We’re
asking them not to force war as a solution the present crisis.”  The phone of Congolese army spokesman Lieutenant-Colonel
Sylvain Ekenge did not connect when called for comment by
Bloomberg today.  The rebels began deserting the army in April, claiming the
government had not adhered to a 2009 peace agreement and amid
rumors that one of their leaders, General Bosco Ntaganda, would
be arrested. Ntaganda is wanted by the  International Criminal
Court  for  war crimes .  Neighboring  Rwanda  allegedly provides support and recruits
for the rebels, according to the Congolese government and a June
report by the UN’s Group of Experts on Congo. Rwanda has denied
any involvement.  Operations Base  Bunagana was a base of operations for Ntaganda’s former
rebel group, which was also backed by Rwanda. The group
integrated into the army in 2009. The deal marked a turning
point in relations between Congo and Rwanda, which fought a
series of wars directly or via rebel proxies since the late
1990s.  More than 218,000 people have fled the fighting in North
Kivu province since April, according to the UN. Its troops
remain in Bunagana to protect civilians, Mounoubai said.  The death of the Indian peacekeeper brings to 44 the
members of the UN mission killed since it arrived in the country
in 1999, according to its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Kavanagh in Kinshasa at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  