-- Corn Price Gain Seen Prompting Higher Meat, Soda Costs
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2012-07-06T20:46:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/corn-price-gain-seen-prompting-higher-meat-soda-costs.html
Corn prices near a nine-month high
will mean higher costs for U.S. restaurants and foodmakers if
the surge is sustained, hurting their efforts to lure budget-
minded Americans.  Eateries including Popeyes Louisiana Kitchen and  McDonald’s
Corp. (MCD)  may see higher meat costs, while cereal and beverage
makers, such as  General Mills Inc. (GIS)  and  Coca-Cola Co. (KO) , may face
elevated corn and sweetener prices. Consumer sentiment slumped
to a six-month low in June, signaling companies will have a
tough time passing along price increases.  “Corn is king, and corn is a commodity that drives every
other commodity,” Alice LeBlanc, chief global supply chain
officer at Popeyes, owned by  AFC Enterprises Inc. (AFCE) , said in an
interview. “Unless we get some precipitation across the corn
belt, the corn prices will stay high.”  Corn prices jumped to a nine-month high of $7.13 a bushel
on the Chicago Board of Trade yesterday and have surged 37
percent since June 15 as a damaging drought plagued the U.S.
Midwest. Today, corn futures for December delivery fell 2.2
percent to settle at $6.93 at 2 p.m. in Chicago amid speculation
that cooler temperatures next week will stem yield losses.  The crop’s condition deteriorated for the fourth straight
week as of July 1, with 48 percent of corn rated good or
excellent, the worst for that date since 1988, the  U.S.
Department of Agriculture  said July 2.  “We were all anticipating a wonderful, wonderful crop this
year,” LeBlanc said. “It has kind of caught us a little bit by
surprise.”  Corn, the biggest U.S. crop and  worth  $76.5 billion last
year, is the main ingredient in chicken, cattle and hog feed.
Atlanta-based AFC sells chicken wraps, sandwiches and chicken
and sausage jambalaya at its restaurants.  Commodity Hedges  Restaurants and food sellers, which typically lock in
commodities months in advance to protect against price spikes,
may face higher food costs in 2013 if corn prices remain
elevated. McDonald’s, which has recently promoted Spicy Chicken
McBites, bought 727 million pounds of chicken and 800 million
pounds of beef in the U.S. in 2010.  Meat, poultry and fish prices surged 7.4 percent last year
and are expected to gain as much as 4.5 percent this year as
rising corn prices make animal feed more expensive. U.S. retail
beef prices, a composite that includes choice and other beef and
hamburger values, climbed to a record $4.687 a pound in May,
according to government  data .  “The key question is just how hedged and protected these
companies are,”  Jack Russo , an analyst at Edward Jones & Co. in
 St. Louis , said in an interview. “The packaged-food companies
would be the most impacted” by higher corn prices because fast-
food chains are largely operated by franchise owners, who bear
the increased commodity costs, he said.  Corn Syrup  Coca-Cola and  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP)  beverages use high-fructose corn
syrup, while General Mills and  Kellogg Co. (K) , the maker of Corn
Flakes and Pop Tarts, put corn starch and corn meal in cereals
and granola bars.  Kent Landers , a spokesman for Atlanta-based Coca-Cola, and
Kirstie Foster, a spokeswoman for Minneapolis-based General
Mills, declined to comment. The cost of goods sold will rise 7
percent this year, mostly due to commodity inflation, at  Battle
Creek , Michigan-based Kellogg, Chief Financial Officer Ron Dissinger said during a conference call on April 26.  Jeff Dahncke, a spokesman for Purchase, New York-based
PepsiCo, said the snack and drink maker uses forward buying to
manage volatility and that no single commodity makes up more
than 10 percent of the total. He declined to comment on
PepsiCo’s specific strategy on corn prices.  Rebecca Hary, a spokeswoman for  Oak Brook , Illinois-based
McDonald’s declined to comment on commodities.  Price Increases  Food sellers may not be able to pass along those costs as
price increases to their customers, according to Kenrick Jordan,
senior economist at BMO Capital Markets in Toronto. Consumers
are “pretty cautious about how they spend, and that affects
food prices.”  If corn prices stay elevated, “the food manufacturers or
food retailers would probably have to swallow some of the
increased commodity costs,” Jordan said. Retail prices usually
take six to 12 months to reflect the higher commodity costs, he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in  Chicago  at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  