-- Credit Swaps in U.S. Climb as Payrolls Rise Less Than Forecast
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2012-07-06T21:38:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/credit-swaps-in-u-s-climb-as-payrolls-rise-less-than-forecast.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate debt risk
rose for a second day after U.S. employment increased less than
forecast, fueling concerns that labor-market growth is cooling.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark used to hedge against losses on
corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness, increased
3.7 basis points to a mid-price of 112.7 basis points at 5 p.m.
in New York, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.
Contracts tied to  Seagate Technology Plc (STX)  increased after it said
fourth-quarter earnings would be lower than earlier reported.  The swaps rose as concern mounted that a faltering labor
market may derail economic growth and imperil profits, making it
harder for borrowers to meet debt payments. Payroll gains missed
estimates by 20,000 and private corporate hiring was the weakest
in 10 months, Labor Department data showed today.  “This number, while it’s only a slight miss, is still
indicative of an economy that’s growing very, very slowly,”
Brian Reynolds, chief market strategist for institutional
brokerage firm Rosenblatt Securities Inc., said in a telephone
interview.  Payrolls increased by 80,000 workers in June, after a
revised gain of 77,000 in May, according to the Labor
Department. The median forecast of 84 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News called for an advance of 100,000. The
 unemployment rate  held at 8.2 percent as private employment
increased by 84,000.  Fed Action  The  Federal Open Market Committee  decided June 20 to extend
its program to lower borrowing costs by replacing short-term
bonds with longer-maturity debt, known as Operation Twist.
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  signaled after the
announcement that the central bank will consider additional
stimulus, including asset purchases, if employment stalls.  “This number it’s not great, but it’s not horrible, so it
may not force the Fed into immediate action,” Reynolds said.
“The central bank is probably on the sidelines for the next
month or so and that leaves investors with not much to make them
want to buy risky assets. The result is we’ve started to see
some spread-widening this morning.”  Seagate, the world’s largest maker of computer disk drives,
expects to report fiscal fourth-quarter sales of $4.5 billion,
down from earlier forecasts of at least $5 billion, the Dublin-
based company said today in a statement. The technology firm
will report full earnings results on July 30.  The cost to guard against losses on the debt of a unit of
Seagate increased 7.3 basis points, the most in two weeks, to a
mid-price of 305.8 basis points at 5:02 p.m. in  New York ,
Bloomberg prices show.  The swaps gauge typically rises as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves. Credit swaps pay the
buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations,
less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in New York at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  