-- Cypriot Government Needs Aid to Refinance Debt, Shiarly Says
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s   a n d   S t e l i o s   O r p h a n i d e s
-- 2012-07-06T13:31:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/cypriot-government-needs-aid-to-refinance-debt-shiarly-says-1-.html
The Cypriot government’s need for
emergency aid stems from the need to refinance debt rather than
to fill budget holes, Finance Minister Vassos Shiarly said.  “All we want is refinancing of existing, short-term
Treasury bills,” Shiarly told reporters today in the capital
Nicosia. “We do not need any additional funding for 2012.”  Cyprus, which last month became the fifth euro-area nation
to request a financial rescue since a 2010 bailout of  Greece , is
also negotiating a loan of 5 billion euros ($6.2 billion) from
 Russia , Russian Finance Minister Anton Siluanov told reporters
in Moscow today.  No amount has been specified for the Cypriot bailout, which
will encompass banks weakened by their exposure to the  Greek
economy  as well as the public sector. Cypriot President Demetris Christofias said on June 29 that the requested aid will be
mainly for banks.  The Cypriot government renewed 200 million euros in
maturing debt yesterday. Cyprus may need to refinance as much as
341 million euros by Aug. 15, according to the debt agency.
Daily newspaper Politis reported today that the  Finance Ministry 
asked state-owned organizations, including the Cyprus
Telecommunications Authority and Cyprus Ports Authority, to
participate in a planned sale of 250 million euros of debt.  Shiarly said the recapitalization needs of Cypriot lenders,
which lost more than 4 billion euros in Greece’s debt
restructuring earlier this year, have weakened government
finances also stretched by a 1.8 billion-euro rescue of Cyprus
Popular Bank Pcl.  ‘Fiscal Side’  “They are bound to affect, to some extent, the fiscal side
as well,” he said. “Liquidity is a problem.”  Fitch Ratings Co. cut Cyprus on June 25 to below investment
grade, saying Cypriot banks need “substantial injections of
capital in order to secure confidence in their financial
viability.”  The  European Central Bank  said the next day that Cypriot
government bonds had become ineligible as collateral in
refinancing operations as their rating no longer met minimum
creditworthiness standards. Following the Fitch downgrade,
Cypriot debt is rated junk by all three major rating companies.  Cyprus, shut out of international bond markets for the past
14 months, has sought to narrow the  budget deficit  to 2.5
percent of gross domestic product this year from 6.3 percent of
GDP in 2011. The Cypriot economy has slipped into recession
after expanding 0.5 percent in 2011.  Efforts Welcomed  “I welcome the efforts made so far by the Cypriot
authorities to correct the excessive budget deficit,” European
Commission President  Jose Barroso  said today in Nicosia. “I am
fully aware that consolidation is going on during a recession.”  In addition to a financial rescue from the euro area,
Cyprus has requested aid from the  International Monetary Fund 
and further funding from Russia following a 2.5 billion-euro
Russian loan last December.  Representatives of the commission, ECB and IMF have just
completed a “fact-finding” mission in Cyprus linked to its
need for a rescue, according to Barroso.  “They’ll come back soon for a more detailed mission with
the aim of preparing a program for Cyprus together with the
Cypriot authorities,” he said.  Christofias said his government won’t let the commission,
ECB and IMF -- known as the troika -- dictate the terms of aid,
which is generally provided in return for budget austerity.  “We are now in talks with the troika and it doesn’t mean
that whatever the troika will say we shall agree,” he told
reporters alongside Barroso. “We too have our views.”  Barroso was in Nicosia to mark the start of the Cypriot
presidency of the European Union that will run for six months
through December. The commission is the 27-nation European
Union’s executive arm.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Nicosia, Cyprus, at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net ;
Stelios Orphanides in Nicosia at 
 sorphanides@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  