-- Cyprus Asks Russia for 5 Billion-Euro Loan, Siluanov Says
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e   a n d   S t e l i o s   O r p h a n i d e s
-- 2012-07-06T13:58:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/cyprus-asks-russia-for-5-billion-euro-loan-siluanov-says-1-.html
Cyprus is seeking a second loan from
 Russia  in less than a year to help mitigate threats to its
economy after becoming the fifth of the euro area’s 17 members
to request a bailout.  The east Mediterranean island has asked to borrow 5 billion
euros ($6.2 billion) from Russia, according to Finance Minister
Anton Siluanov, who said the application is being considered.
That’s equivalent to 28 percent of Cyprus’s 17.8 billion euro
($22 billion)  economy  last year.  “We’ve received a request from Cyprus and we’re looking at
it now,” Siluanov told reporters today in Moscow. “Cyprus
didn’t just approach us but also asked the European Union for
help.”  Cyprus last month followed Greece, Ireland,  Portugal  and
 Spain  in seeking help to return to financial health. The third-
smallest euro economy has been hurt by losses from  Greece ’s
recession and is seeking support from the euro region’s firewall
funds to bolster its banking industry.  The Cypriot government’s domestic debt due in January 2016
surged, cutting the yield 2.82 percentage points to 12.48
percent, the lowest since November.  “We shall do everything for the good of our Cyprus and the
EU,” President Demetris Christofias told reporters today in
Nicosia, the capital. Cyprus reserves the right to maintain
relations with other countries and hasn’t heard reservations
from the European Commission about ties with Russia,  China  or
Arab countries, he said.  Russian Capitalism  “In Russia capitalism is being restored,” said
Christofias, the Moscow-educated former leader of the Cypriot
communist party AKEL. “You should not be concerned that we
shall bring communism to Cyprus because of our ties to Russia.”  Russia, which agreed to lend Cyprus 2.5 billion euros in
December, has received requests for financial aid from other
countries and will act to help euro-area nations safeguard the
currency, First Deputy Prime Minister  Igor Shuvalov  has said,
without identifying the nations in question.  The world’s biggest energy exporter had $514.3 billion of
gold and foreign-currency reserves at the end of last month, the
world’s fourth biggest after China,  Japan  and  Saudi Arabia . More
than 41 percent of its currency reserves were in euros as of
Sept. 30, according to the most recent central bank figures.  Russia’s Interest  “We have an interest in seeing the entire euro zone and
everything connected to the EU currency union remain fairly
stable,” Shuvalov said June 28. “If we can, without any damage
to our reserves, offer some assistance, knowing that we’re
stabilizing the situation and thereby helping ourselves -- in
that case the government should do it.”  Russia has begun to examine Cyprus’s request, Konstantin Vyshkovsky, head of the  Finance Ministry ’s debt department, said
today. The government is monitoring whether  Europe  offers Cyprus
aid and will consider that as it decides on the loan, he said.  “We’re looking at whether it’s possible and makes sense to
provide another loan,” he told reporters after Siluanov
addressed the lower house of parliament, or State Duma. “Now
we’ll invite our colleagues and ask them some questions.”  Christofias expressed confidence yesterday that his
government will win a loan from Russia on top of the European
bailout requested last week.  “We do expect a positive reply,” Christofias told
reporters in Nicosia, Cyprus. “We are still waiting for the
reply.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net ;
Stelios Orphanides in Nicosia at 
 sorphanides@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  