-- Defection of Assad Adviser Show Cracks in Syrian Regime
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r   a n d   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2012-07-07T14:46:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/defection-of-assad-advisor-show-cracks-in-syrian-regime.html
The first defection of a member of
President Bashar al-Assad’s inner circle highlights the growing
isolation of the Alawite-dominated regime as the United Nations
considers next steps to usher in a transitional government.  Syrian Brigadier-General Manaf Tlas, a  Sunni Muslim , was a
confidant of Assad, who is Alawite, an offshoot of Shiite Islam.
His defection was announced in Paris by French Foreign Minister
Laurent Fabius at a Friends of  Syria  meeting yesterday.  The decision to abandon Assad “underscores the very real
worry that this war is turning into a civil war drawn along
religious, communal lines,” said  Joshua Landis , director of the
Middle East program at the University of Oklahoma in Norman, in
response to e-mailed questions.  “If that happens, the regime will fall apart,” Landis
said. “The Alawites cannot rule Syria alone.”  An uprising that began peacefully 16 months ago and evolved
into a deadly confrontation has caused the international
community to reconsider its strategy over how to persuade Assad,
whose family has held power for four decades, to leave. Syrian
forces battled with rebels in Aleppo in the north of the country
as they sought to reassert control over the region, the U.K.-
based  Syrian Observatory for Human Rights  said in an e-mailed
statement today. They also were conducting raids in Deraa
province, the group said.  Childhood Friends  More than 70 percent of Syria’s population is Sunni and
Assad and his ruling minority depend on the loyalty of Sunni
Muslim officers.  Tlas, formerly a commander in the elite Republican Guard,
is the son of ex-Defense Minister Mustapha Tlas and was a
childhood friend of Assad. Before leaving the country, he headed
Brigade 105 in the Revolutionary Guard, according to the pro-
government website Syria Steps.  Tlas urged other soldiers, regardless of their rank, to
“quit this bad track,” according to a letter to his troops
with his signature, reported by  Agence France-Presse , which
couldn’t verify the letter’s authenticity.  The rising violence in Syria, even with the presence of 300
UN military observers, will play a role in what the UN Security
Council -- where  Russia  has used its veto to shield Assad --will
do next.  UN Report  In a 25-page report, UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon
recommends a reduction in the number of monitors in Syria, and
having the smaller mission based in Damascus, to encourage a
political dialogue. The UN monitors’ three-month mission expires
July 20.  The drawback to this option is that “popular opinion may
misinterpret intensified advocacy at the central level as
privileging government prerogatives, while reducing access to
opposition groups outside the capital,” Ban’s report said.  The  Security Council  will vote next week on a resolution
based on Ban’s recommendations.  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said at the Paris
meeting that Russia and  China , two veto-wielding members of the
Security Council, are blocking movement toward a settlement in
Syria and urged that they be pressured to end their support of
Assad’s government.  Casualty Numbers  “I ask you to reach out to Russia and China and not only
ask, but demand they get off the sidelines,” Clinton said to
more than 100 delegates at the conference. “I don’t think
Russia and China think they are paying any price at all --
nothing at all -- for standing with the Assad regime.”  Clinton’s remarks were “totally unacceptable,” Chinese
Foreign Ministry spokesman  Liu Weimin  said in a statement on the
ministry’s website today. China has wide international support
for its “just and constructive” stance to resolve the Syrian
conflict, he said.  Russia didn’t attend this Friends of Syria meeting. Russian
representatives were sent to a Syrian opposition meeting in
Cairo on July 2 and 3.  While Ban’s report says the UN can’t verify the number of
casualties, the world body cites non-governmental organizations
as reporting the number of dead since the outset of the
insurrection to be between 13,000 and 17,000. At least 73 people
were killed yesterday, the Local Coordination Committees in
Syria said in an e-mail.  Authorities have portrayed the unrest as a conspiracy and
the protesters as radical Islamists. At the Paris gathering,
opposition figures advocated a no-fly zone and criticized the
group for moving too slowly to help Syrian civilians.  At least two people have been killed and 10 others injured
after shells were fired into north Lebanon from across the
Syrian border, the  Associated Press  said, citing Lebanese
security officials. One woman died and five other people were
hurt when a shell hit a home in the Wadi Khalid area of
northeast Lebanon, the  news agency  said.  ‘Damascus Declaration’  “We fail to understand how it is we have so many friends
and yet so many people are dying every day,” said Riad Seif, a
founder of the “Damascus Declaration,” a call by intellectuals
for a peaceful democratic transition.  Nabil el-Arabi, the secretary-general of the  Arab League ,
said “a declaration of intent is not enough” and that “we
must force the UN to act.”  Assad, in an interview with the Turkish Cumhuriyet
newspaper, said sanctions “no matter how intensified” won’t
make his government change its position, the state-run Sana news
agency reported yesterday.  “The issue is not one of selling principles for money,
food or foreign aid,” the news agency quoted him as saying.
“Otherwise, we would have to justify the attitude of any
corrupt person who sold his honor for money, and this is
categorically unacceptable for us in Syria in principle and from
a moral perspective.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Manama at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net ;
Flavia Krause-Jackson in  United Nations  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  