-- Diamond’s Turbulent Landing Highlights Tory U-Turn
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2012-07-06T11:39:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/diamond-s-turbulent-landing-highlights-tory-u-turn.html
A year ago,  Robert Diamond  was in the
cockpit of  David Cameron ’s plane as it landed in London.  As the chartered Virgin Atlantic Airbus A340-300 taxied
toward Heathrow airport’s VIP suite at the end of an African
trade mission, a crew member joked on the loudspeaker that
“Captain  Bob Diamond ” carried out an “exemplary landing.”
Diamond, who was in the jumpseat, commented, “there is really
no need to ever grow up.”  The July 19 flight from Lagos, Nigeria, marked a high point
of warmth between Cameron’s Conservative government and the
financiers he’d aimed to bolster in the aftermath of the banking
bailout. Now, with Diamond forced out as  Barclays Plc (BARC)  chief
executive officer after the bank was fined for manipulating
 interest rates , Cameron is comparing bankers to hustlers and
warning against golden parachutes.  “He’s not against banking -- he likes good bankers,”
 Steven Fielding , professor of politics at Nottingham University,
said in an interview. “Unfortunately there don’t seem to be
that many good bankers around at the moment.”  Cameron came to office in 2010 promising to reset relations
with the finance industry. Under  Margaret Thatcher , his
Conservative Party created the modern  City of London  with the
1986 “Big Bang” that introduced electronic trading and
deregulation. Instead, the rate-rigging scandal that forced
Diamond out July 3 has left Cameron setting up a parliamentary
inquiry and saying bankers engaged in “spivvy and probably
illegal activity.” A “spiv” is slang for a hustler.  Cameron’s Stockbrokers  Before he won power in May 2010, Cameron was keen to
reassure the City. “My father was a stockbroker, my grandfather
was a stockbroker, my great-grandfather was a stockbroker,” he
told a 2009 gathering of financiers that included Diamond,
according to the Times newspaper.  Hedge-fund executive  Stanley Fink  and  Michael Spencer , CEO
of interbank broker  ICAP Plc (IAP) , helped finance his election as
party treasurers.  “The Tories have always had more of a business grounding
than Labour,” the main opposition party,  Peter Allen , a
researcher at the  University of London’s Birkbeck College , said
in an interview.  Finance Links  Of the Conservatives who first won election in 2010, “13
percent have backgrounds in financial services, and 41 percent
are drawn from what’s very broadly described as a business
background,” Allen said. “Only 8 percent of Labour members of
Parliament are described as having that background.”  That means that 10 percent of all lawmakers are now drawn
from the finance industry, compared with 5 percent when  Tony Blair  won power for Labour in 1997.  Even so, the financial crash and bank rescues of 2008 meant
the Conservatives were already moderating their support of
bankers when they came to office.  George Osborne , then their
Treasury spokesman and now chancellor of the exchequer, said in
2009 the U.K. should look at whether it needed “smaller
banks.”  In June 2010, a month after taking office, he appointed a
panel led by  John Vickers  that last year recommended setting up
firewalls between retail and investment banking. The proposal
will be introduced in Parliament next year.  Low-Key Rhetoric  Still, in 2010, Cameron’s rhetoric toward banks was low-
key. He urged them to lend more to businesses and pay lower
bonuses. His government introduced a levy on banks as it raised
taxes and cut spending in its first budget.  At the start of 2011, Cameron was still trying to assuage
taxpayers over the near-collapse of banks that led to the
government takeover of  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  and
 Lloyds Banking Group Plc. (LLOY)   “I want to make sure the bonuses go down, the lending goes
up, and I want to maximize the amount of tax they pay,” he
said. “We’ve got to work for the balance, rather than just say
let’s get revenge on these people, they’ve made us mad as
hell.”  Bankers became a more tempting target for Cameron as his
own popularity declined amid the fallout from the phone-hacking
investigation into  Rupert Murdoch ’s  News Corp. (NWSA)  and a double-dip
recession. A ComRes Ltd. poll conducted June 29 to July 1 found
only 10 percent of adults saying they trusted bankers to tell
the truth -- the same number as said they trusted politicians.  Hester’s Bonus  In January, Labour introduced a motion calling on  Stephen Hester , chief executive of RBS, to waive his bonus. With a
majority in Parliament, Cameron, who was said by an aide to fear
Hester would quit, could have won the vote. Even so, Hester said
he’d turn the money down. The next day, at Cameron’s
instigation, former Hester’s predecessor,  Fred Goodwin , was
stripped of his knighthood.  Cameron’s approach to Diamond was similarly incremental.  After Barclays agreed to a record 290 million-pound ($450
million) fine for rigging the London interbank offered rate, a
global benchmark, Cameron initially said it was a matter for
regulators.  A day later, Cameron stepped up his rhetoric, telling
reporters in northern England that “the Barclays management
team have some big questions to answer.”  Later that day, after arriving in Brussels for a European
Union summit, he further toughened his message. “People have to
take responsibility for the actions and show how they’re going
to be accountable for those actions,” he said. “It’s very
important that goes all the way to the top of the
organization.” A U.K. official, speaking on condition of
anonymity, later said the prime minister thought Diamond
specifically had questions to answer.  Five days later, Diamond was out and Cameron and Osborne
had turned their fire toward Labour in a successful bid to limit
the scope of the inquiry.  Finance “is an incredibly important industry,” Osborne
said. “It’s Britain’s largest private-sector employer. What we
don’t need is its reputation tarnished, navel-gazing over these
scandals. We know what went wrong, now we’ve got to fix it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  