-- More ECB Non-Standard Policy Not in Cards for Now, Coeure Says
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n   a n d   C a r o l i n e   C o n n a n
-- 2012-07-08T22:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/ecb-sees-no-need-for-more-non-standard-policy-now-coeure-says.html
The  European Central Bank  sees no
immediate need for further non-standard measures to support the
economy or counter the debt crisis, executive board member
Benoit Coeure said.  “The view of the governing council is that we don’t need
additional non-standard measures at the current juncture,”
Coeure said when asked if the ECB may implement quantitative
easing. “It’s not on the table at the current juncture,” he
said in an interview in Aix-en-Provence,  France  on July 6.  The Frankfurt-based central bank’s decision on July 5 to
lower  interest rates  -- including cutting the rate it pays on
overnight deposits to zero -- fueled speculation it may
eventually be forced to follow the U.S. Federal Reserve and the
 Bank of England  with large-scale asset purchases known as
quantitative easing. After the decision, ECB President  Mario Draghi  said the cut may have only a “muted” economic impact.  Coeure said that lowering the deposit rate into the
negative is a “theoretical” possibility, though it also isn’t
a move that the ECB needs to make right now.  “Some central banks have done that,” he said, citing the
Danish central bank. “I don’t think this is appropriate for the
ECB at the current juncture. It’s a theoretical possibility.”  The ECB’s rate cuts came within 45 minutes of  China 
lowering borrowing costs and the Bank of England restarting its
asset purchases, adding to a new round of global monetary
stimulus. With  Europe ’s debt crisis curbing growth across the
continent and damping the outlook for the world economy, the ECB
was under pressure to ease policy even though Draghi last month
voiced misgivings about the effectiveness of a rate reduction.  Rising Yields  Coeure said purchases of Italian and Spanish government
debt may be considered if monetary policy requires it.  The additional yield investors demand to hold Spanish 10-
year bonds rather than benchmark German bunds rose to 563 basis
points on July 6 from 486 basis points on July 2.  Spain ’s 10-
year yield rose 62 basis points in the week that ended July 6,
the most since the five days through June 15, to 6.95 percent.
It reached 7.04 percent on the day, the highest since June 20.  Italy’s comparable debt yielded about 6.03 percent.  Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  said yesterday that the
current level of yield spreads on European sovereign debt
remains a concern and that the Euro Group of finance ministers
should act to counter them.  “This is an issue that the European Council has underlined
as one to be addressed when it met in Brussels,” Monti told
journalists at Aix-en-Provence, France. “It was decided that
the Euro Group should work on this.”  On July 7, Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  said euro-
zone countries must urgently implement decisions including
government bond purchases agreed to in June as the country can’t
finance its deficit under current conditions.  ECB Purchases  The region’s finance ministers gather today in Brussels for
a regular monthly meeting.  “If the governments decide to do it they should go ahead,”
Coeure told a meeting of the Circle of Economists. “That
doesn’t mean the ECB can’t buy Italian and Spanish debt on the
market, but they’ll do it if it needs to for reasons of monetary
policy and not otherwise.”  Asked why the ECB won’t finance the European Stability
Mechanism, he said providing unlimited financing for the bailout
fund to support  government borrowing  would contravene the treaty
agreements that it works under.  While the ECB “may have the right to lend to the European
Stability Mechanism to create bridge financing,” using the
money for “buying  government bonds  in an unlimited manner is
clearly non-compliant with the treaty,” he said.  Coeure said the current priority must be for European
governments to implement the decisions made by their leaders at
a meeting in Brussels.  Euro-region finance ministers will aim to enact the June 29
agreement at a meeting today, European Union President
 Herman Van Rompuy  has said.  “It will take time for the decisions taken by European
leaders to be fully understood by markets and they have to be
implemented,” Coeure said. “For me, the priority is for the
decisions to be taken by European leaders to be quickly
implemented.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Deen in Aix-en-Provence, France at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Connan in Aix-en-Provence, France at 
 cconnan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net ; 