-- Tech ADRs Lead Biggest Slump in Week on Growth: Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o   a n d   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2012-07-08T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/tech-adrs-lead-biggest-slump-in-week-on-growth-china-overnight.html
Chinese equities  traded in the U.S.
dropped last week, and  Sohu.com Inc. (SOHU)  fell the most in seven
weeks, on concern the second  interest rate  cut in a month won’t
be sufficient to spur growth in  Asia ’s largest economy.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese companies in  New York  lost 0.1 percent to 91.12 last
week, after sinking 1.5 percent on July 6. Ambow Education
Holding Ltd. led declines with a record weekly slump after
reporting a first-quarter loss and as its chief financial
officer resigned. Sohu dropped the most among Internet companies
while  Tudou Holdings Ltd. (TUDO)  retreated the most in a month.  China
Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (600028)  sank to a 10-month low.  The People’s Bank of  China  lowered the benchmark one-year
lending rate by 0.31 percentage point on July 5 as waning demand
from  Europe , which buys about 20 percent of the nation’s
overseas shipment, slowed growth in the world’s second-largest
economy. A report due this week will show the economy expanded
at the slowest pace in three years, according to the median
estimate of 15 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  “Investors are swinging from euphoria about rate cuts to
the realization that perhaps the economy is slowing more than we
anticipated,” Komal Sri-Kumar, chief global strategist at TCW
Group Inc., which oversees about $120 billion, said by phone
from  Los Angeles  on July 6. “Specific to equities, there is
concern about the impact the continuing European crisis will
have on Chinese exporters, which stand to be most negatively
impacted by slower-than-expected growth.”  ‘Plenty of Room’  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., lost 1.9 percent on July 6 and
0.6 percent for the week to $33.45. The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP) 
of mainland stocks ended the week little changed, after climbing
1 percent to 2,223.58. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  of U.S.
shares slid 0.9 percent to 1,354.68 on July 6 after an increase
in U.S. payrolls trailed economists’ predictions, completing the
week with a 0.5 percent decline.  China has scope for further reductions in interest rates as
growth and inflation slowed, according to  Stephen Roach , former
non-executive chairman for Morgan Stanley in Asia.  “There’s plenty of room for additional easing, and
actually their interest rates are pretty high in inflation-
adjusted, or real terms,” Roach said in a July 6 interview with
Bloomberg Television.  Slower Growth  Government data due today may show June  consumer prices 
gained 2.3 percent, the slowest pace since January 2010, the
Bloomberg survey of economists showed. The economy expanded 7.7
percent for the three months though June, which would be the
slowest growth since the first quarter of 2009, the survey
indicated.  Beijing-based Sohu, which owns China’s third-biggest online
search engine, dropped 7.1 percent last week to $41.47, the
steepest slump since the week ended May 18.  Sohu bought back an 11 percent stake in its online search
and browser unit Sogou Inc. for $25.8 million from Alibaba Group
Holding Ltd., China’s biggest e-commerce company on June 27, it
said in a  regulatory filing  on July 2.  “The value of Sohu’s search engine reflected in this deal
was lower than most people’s estimates, therefore driving down
the company’s stock price,” Qi Guo, an analyst at ThinkEquity
Partners LLC, said July 6 by phone from San Fransisco.  Tudou retreated 6.6 percent to $31.30 last week, the
biggest five-day drop since June 1.  Ambow Education  Ambow Education (AMBO) , the tutoring and test preparation
provider, tumbled 31 percent last week to $3.21, the lowest
level on record.  Jefferies International Ltd. lowered its recommendation on
the shares to hold from buy on July 6, cutting the 12-month
price target to $5.30 from $10.  The Beijing-based company said it will conduct an internal
investigation in response to an allegation by a former employee
of “financial impropriety and wrongful conduct” related to the
2008 acquisition of a training school, according to a July 5
filing to the Securities and Exchange Commission.  A day earlier, it said in a statement CFO Gareth Kung, who
joined the company in December, resigned and KJ Tan, vice-
president of finance, was appointed as acting finance chief.
Ambow reported a net loss of $12.7 million in the first quarter,
from net income of $2 million a year ago, in a separate
statement on July 5.  Biggest Discount  China Petroleum, Asia’s biggest refiner known as Sinopec,
declined 1.7 percent on July 6 to $85.55 , the lowest level
since Aug. 22. Shares lost 4.1 percent last week, extending its
loss this year to 19 percent. The ADRs, each representing 100
underlying shares in Sinopec, traded 0.6 percent  below  its Hong
Kong stock, the biggest discount since June 25.  Gasoline and diesel prices may be reduced by about 400  yuan 
($62.85) per ton on July 11, state-owned China Securities
Journal reported July 6, citing Xinhua oil price system data.  ShangPharma Corp. (SHP) , a Chinese medical researcher, surged 16
percent on July 6 to $7.95, the biggest jump since Aug. 12.  The Shanghai-based company received a non-binding proposal
from Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Xin Hui and entities
affiliated with him, to acquire all of the company’s outstanding
ADRs for $8.50 to $9.50 per share, according to a July 6
statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net ;
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  