-- Ecuador Seeks Liquidity Loan as Correa Loses Oil Funding
-- B y   N a t h a n   G i l l
-- 2012-07-06T18:55:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/ecuador-seeks-liquidity-loan-as-correa-loses-oil-funding.html
Ecuador is seeking a $515 million
loan from the  Latin American Reserve Fund  to shore up liquidity
as falling oil prices leave President  Rafael Correa  looking for
new ways to fund spending.  FLAR, as the Bogota-based stability fund is known, approved
the loan equal to 13 percent of Ecuador’s international reserves
to allow the government to finance its balance of payments, the
 Finance Ministry  said in a  statement  yesterday. The three-year
loan carries an  interest rate  between 3.6 percentage points and
4 percentage points over the three-month Libor rate. The
ministry didn’t say when the funds would be disbursed.  Ecuador, a member of the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries, is trying to avoid a liquidity crisis like
the one that led to a banking crisis in the 1990s and adoption
of the  U.S. dollar  as its official currency in 2000. Correa, an
ally of Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez , defaulted on $3.2
billion of global bonds in 2008 and 2009 that he considered part
of an “illegitimate” and “illegal” foreign debt.  “It is disturbing that having such important quantities of
funds like those received from oil, that we have to seek
external loans,” Luis Luna, an economist and former Ecuadorean
sub-secretary of trade, said last night in a telephone interview
from Quito. “There’s an excess of public spending.”  The $515 million loan is the biggest of three that Ecuador
has sought since 2005 from the FLAR, which was created to help
regional governments overcome balance-of-payment problems. Only
Bolivia and  Costa Rica , both of which lack Ecuador’s oil wealth,
have sought aid from the organization in the past decade.  Oil Dependence  Ecuadorean Finance Minister  Patricio Rivera , Correa’s fifth
since taking office in 2007, didn’t immediately respond today to
a telephone messages seeking comment.  Ecuador, dependent on oil exports for about 41 percent of
government revenue, forecast  government spending  will jump 9
percent this year to $26.1 billion, or about a 36 percent of
gross domestic product, according to the nation’s 2012 budget.  To fund a fiscal deficit that the government estimates will
reach $4.23 billion this year, or 5.9 percent of GDP, the
government may seek help from  China  as it has done previously,
London-based  Capital Economics  Ltd. wrote in a report this week.  Ecuador’s dollarized economy, and the lack of savings
during years of stronger economic growth, leave it with “little
or no legroom in an environment of falling  oil prices ,” Capital
Economics said.  Slowing Down  First-quarter economic growth in Ecuador was the slowest in
two years, with GDP rising 0.7 percent from the previous three
months. Correa in February said his government was negotiating a
$1.7 billion loan with China, which has loaned the South
American country about $7.3 billion since 2009.  The Andean country’s central bank today lowered its GDP
forecast for 2012 to 4.8 percent from the 5.35 percent estimate
used in this year budget approved in November.  Ecuador’s Oriente crude tumbled 21 percent to $88.62 per
barrel in the three months through June, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Benchmark West Texas Intermediate oil
traded in  New York  dropped 19 percent. Today, Oriente slid 3.2
percent to $86.95 as of 1:27 p.m. Quito time, while WTI fell 3
percent to $84.60 per barrel.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Ecuadorean dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries today widened 2 basis points,
or 0.02 percentage point, today to 872, bringing this year’s
increase to 26 basis points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBIG indexes. That compares with a 56 basis-point decline for
the EMBIG, making Ecuador the third-riskiest economy in  South
America  after Venezuela and Argentina, JPMorgan data show.  Correa, speaking June 30 in his weekly address to the
nation, said Ecuador’s economy is doing “quite well” and that
the government is prepared for any possible slowdown. He said
oil prices would have to fall below $53 per barrel to affect
budgeted spending in 2012.  Recent Upgrade  Standard & Poor’s  upgraded the country’s credit rating last
month for the third time since its default, to B from B-, citing
the government’s willingness and capacity to service its debt
amid higher oil production and economic growth prospects.  The Treasury has saved $600 million from higher-than-
budgeted oil prices this year, Correa said. That would cover
about one-third of the country’s average monthly imports,
according to central bank data.  Ecuador’s Treasury deposits at the central bank fell 16
percent last week to $1.9 billion, the bank said July 2 in a
report on its website. The country’s total international
 reserves , the smallest among South America’s major economies,
fell 4 percent to $3.93 billion, the report said.  FLAR’s seven members are Bolivia, Colombia, Costa Rica,
Ecuador, Peru, Uruguay and Venezuela.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nathan Gill  in Quito at 
 ngill4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 