-- ENN Says Majority of Shareholders Support China Gas Bid
-- B y   A i b i n g   G u o   a n d   P a u l   G o r d o n
-- 2012-07-06T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/enn-says-majority-of-shareholders-support-china-gas-bid.html
ENN Energy Holdings Ltd. (2688) , leading a
$2 billion hostile bid for  China Gas Holdings Ltd. (384) , extended the
offer and said a majority of its shareholders support the plan,
even as investors bought shares in the utility at higher prices.  More than 86 percent of shareholders voted at a meeting
yesterday in favor of the bid with partner  China Petroleum &
Chemical Corp. (600028) , ENN said in a statement to the  Hong Kong  Stock
Exchange. The potential buyers will extend the offer deadline to
Aug. 6 after China’s Ministry of Commerce said it would prolong
its review of the deal and because preconditions haven’t been
fully satisfied, according to the  statement .  ENN Chief Financial Officer Wilson Cheng earlier declined
to comment on whether the company will increase the HK$3.50 a
share offer price. All options are open, he told reporters at
the meeting venue in Hong Kong yesterday.  ENN rose 0.7 percent to HK$28.70 in Hong Kong yesterday.
The benchmark  Hang Seng Index  was little changed. The stock has
gained 15 percent this year.  China Gas, a seller of subsidized fuel in canisters and
pipelines to 160 cities, was unchanged at HK$3.92. It has gained
40 percent since ENN and China Petroleum proposed the HK$15.3
billion ($2 billion) acquisition on Dec. 13.  China Gas has rebuffed the bid, saying it was opportunistic
and failed to reflect the company’s value.  “It is clear from their public statements that a majority
of our shareholders are not willing to accept the offer,” and
the company’s stock is trading well above the offer price, China
Gas Joint Managing Director Eric Leung said in an e-mail
yesterday. “It seems impossible to us that this offer can
succeed and we urge the consortium to allow it to lapse.”  No Access  China Gas has refused ENN and China Petroleum, or Sinopec,
access to conduct due diligence, one of the bid preconditions,
according to yesterday’s statement. ENN and Sinopec said they
haven’t yet decided whether to waive that condition and will
continue to seek cooperation.  The acceptance deadline was extended by a month to allow
further review by regulators and may be extended again, the
statement showed.  China Gas has more than 7 million residential customers and
40,000 industrial and commercial users in the world’s second-
biggest economy, according to the company’s annual earnings
filing on June 28.  Moody’s Investors Services and  Standard & Poor’s  put ENN’s
ratings on review for a downgrade following the bid, saying the
deal would worsen the company’s debt burden.  Buying Shares  ENN had cash and equivalents of 3.35 billion  yuan  and a
restricted bank deposit of 2.52 billion yuan as escrow for the
offer as of Dec. 31, according to its annual report released on
March 28. Total debt was 10.67 billion yuan as of the end of
last year, ENN said.  China Gas’ largest stakeholders bought more shares as they
sought to block the hostile takeover. Beijing Enterprises Group,
owned by the city government, a group led by  Fortune Oil Plc (FTO)  and
 South Korea ’s SK Holdings Co. hold a combined stake of more than
51 percent in the utility, according to filings to Hong Kong’s
Securities and Futures Commission.  Beijing Enterprises, the single largest investor with a
17.96 percent stake, paid as much as 17 percent above the offer
price to add to its holdings.  Zhang Honghai, chief executive officer of  Beijing
Enterprises Holdings Ltd. (392) , the Hong Kong-listed unit of the
group, said on June 11 the parent would consider selling its
stake “at least at a profit.”  Sinopec,  Asia ’s biggest refiner, is “evaluating market
value” before deciding whether to increase the bid for China
Gas, Chairman Fu Chengyu said on June 22. The chairman said
March 26 the offer is fair and a price higher than the market
valuation can’t be paid.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aibing Guo in Hong Kong at 
 aguo10@bloomberg.net ;
 Paul Gordon  in Hong Kong at 
 pgordon6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  