-- Lenovo Drops to 6-Month Low After ICBC Says Outlook Weak
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-07-06T05:53:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/lenovo-drops-to-6-month-low-after-icbc-says-outlook-weak.html
Lenovo Group Ltd. (992) , the world’s
second-largest computer maker, fell to the  lowest in six months 
in  Hong Kong  trading after ICBC International Research Ltd. said
the company’s growth outlook is weakening.  Lenovo fell 4.4 percent to HK$5.70 as of 1:51 p.m. in Hong
Kong trading, headed for the lowest close since Jan. 6.  Global computer shipments will rise 5 percent in 2012,
which will be a “challenging year” because of the debt crisis
in the euro-area economy, researcher IDC forecast last month.
Lenovo shares have  dropped  26 percent in the past two months,
compared with a 6.2 percent decline in the benchmark  Hang Seng
Index  amid concern the economic slowdown hurt computer demand.  “The recent price correction was attributable to the
weakening PC growth outlook and its stretched valuation,” Kary Sei, a Hong Kong-based analyst with ICBC, wrote in the report.
“In view of the slowing global economy, the PC demand surprise
is likely on the downside.”  Even as Lenovo continues to win market share from its
rivals, the company will deliver “a high single digit to mid-
teen”  percentage growth  in  earnings per share  in the fiscal
year ending March, according to the ICBC report. Sei declined to
comment when reached by phone today, citing company policy.  Lenovo can’t comment on today’s share price move, said Jeff
Shafer, a company spokesman.  “We continue to be confident in our strategy and execution
and in our overall performance in PCs,” Shafer said. “As we
have stated before, it remains our expectation to grow faster
than the market, and we continue to make the long-term
investments in areas like product innovation and building our
brand that will enable us to maintain our momentum.”  Lenovo will grow “at a significant premium to market,”
Milko Van Duijl, Lenovo’s president for the Asia-Pacific and
 Latin America , said in a June 28 interview in Hong Kong. He
didn’t give a specific growth forecast at the time.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net ;
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  