-- EU Ministers to Discuss Funding Climate Change Adaptation, Water
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-07-06T11:20:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/eu-ministers-to-discuss-funding-climate-change-adaptation-water.html
European Union ministers will discuss
water management and financing of adaptation to  climate change ,
whose costs to the region are estimated at 20 billion euros ($25
billion) in 2020, at an informal meeting this weekend.  Environment ministers from the bloc’s 27 governments will
hold talks on a planned policy paper on safeguarding water
resources tomorrow, according to a draft agenda of the meeting
hosted by Cyprus.  The second day of the meeting in Nicosia will be devoted to
the use of private and EU funds to adjust infrastructure and
minimize threats from global warming to human health and
ecosystems. The agenda features the presidency priorities in the
area of climate change and doesn’t include any discussion on EU
carbon-reduction goals beyond 2020 or the bloc’s carbon market
after talks on those issues stalled earlier this year.  “The specific characteristics of some adaptation measures,
such as their trans-boundary nature, are requiring good
coordination across borders, and their reliance on environmental
services, by definition difficult to value, make access to
finance more difficult,” the Cypriot government wrote in a
background paper for the meeting.  “Finding adequate sources of financing is therefore
crucial in order to stimulate investments in adaptation
action,” according to the document, published on the EU
presidency website.  Ministers don’t take formal decisions at such meetings,
which are organized twice a year by countries that hold the EU
six-month rotating presidency. Cyprus took over the presidency
at the beginning of this month  The EU wants to lead the global fight against climate
change. The bloc is on track to meet its binding goal of
lowering carbon-dioxide discharges by 20 percent by 2020 and has
repeatedly said it’s ready to tighten it if other countries,
such as the U.S. and  China , follow suit.  At the last round of international climate talks the EU won
support for its road map for a global deal to be adopted by 2015
and enter into force before 2020. Scientists have urged deeper
emission-reduction targets by governments worldwide to contain
the rise in temperatures to 2 degree Celsius (3.6 degrees
Fahrenheit) since pre-industrial times and avoid more heat
waves, flooding and intense storms.  Adaptation to climate change is a “must” to help  Europe 
achieve its policy objectives, including the creation of green
jobs and sustainable growth, Cyprus said.  “While mitigation is absolutely necessary to limit the
impacts of climate change to a manageable degree, even the most
ambitious emission reductions pathways, in line with the 2
degrees Celsius target, would not lead to any reduction in
temperature increases before the 2040s to 2050s below the
business-as-usual scenarios,” it wrote in the background paper.  The U.S., with about 313 million people compared with
Europe Union’s 501 million population, is the largest water
consumer in the world, water and wastewater treatment being at
least a $113 billion annual market, according to international
agency estimates. The  United Nations  says about 800 million
people worldwide don’t have safe drinking water and 2.7 billion
in a world now with 7 billion people lack access to sanitation.  Climate models show parts of Spain and  Italy , with large
agricultural operations, growing drier and drought situations
becoming more common in the coming decades.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  