-- European Stocks Advance for Fifth Week on Stimulus Bets
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2012-07-06T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/european-stocks-advance-for-fifth-week-arkema-rallies.html
European stocks  rose for a fifth week
as investors bet central banks would add to measures to
stimulate economic growth, with the Stoxx Europe 600 Index
paring some gains on concern that risks to a recovery remain.  Arkema SA (AKE)  jumped 15 percent after FT Alphaville reported
the French maker of specialty chemicals and additives received
takeover approaches.  GKN Plc (GKN) , the British maker of parts for
Airbus SAS airplanes, surged 15 percent after buying Volvo AB’s
aircraft-engine unit.  The Stoxx 600 climbed 1.3 percent to 254.4 this week, for
the longest stretch of gains since January. The benchmark
measure has  rallied 8.8 percent  from this year’s low on June 4
after policy makers, meeting in Brussels last month, eased
repayment rules for Spanish banks and relaxed conditions for
possible aid to Italy.  “Monetary easing by the U.K.,  China ’s anticipated rate cut
and the lingering good sentiment after the EU summit supported
the markets,” said  Manish Singh , the London-based head of
investment at Crossbridge Capital, which has more than $2
billion under management. “There’s an accepted view that bad
news is also good news. So bad economic data made some investors
think there’s help on the way.”  National benchmark indexes climbed in 11 of the 18 western
European markets this week. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 increased 1.6
percent, France’s CAC 40 fell 0.9 percent and Germany’s DAX lost
0.1 percent. Italy’s FTSE MIB dropped 3.8 percent and Spain’s
IBEX 35 retreated 5.1 percent.  Central Banks  The  European Central Bank  cut its  main refinancing rate  to
0.75 percent from 1 percent, as predicted by 49 of 64 economists
in a Bloomberg News  survey , and cut its deposit rate to zero
from 0.25 percent.  Speaking after the decision was announced, ECB President
 Mario Draghi  said some “downside risks to the euro-area
economic outlook have materialized” and “economic growth in
the euro area continues to remain weak.”  China cut benchmark  interest rates  for the second time in a
month and allowed banks to offer bigger discounts on their
lending costs. The one-year lending rate fell by 31 basis points
and the one-year deposit rate dropped by 25 basis points.  The Bank of England’s Monetary Policy Committee raised its
 asset-purchase  target by 50 billion pounds ($78 billion) to 375
billion pounds. Thirty out of 41 economists had  forecast  the
move in a Bloomberg survey.  U.S. Payrolls  In the U.S., a Labor Department report showed that
employers hired fewer workers that forecast in June. Payrolls
rose 80,000 last month after a 77,000 increase in May. That
missed the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey that
called for a gain of 100,000. Private hiring added 84,000 in
June, the weakest in 10 months, while the jobless rate held at
8.2 percent.  In China, the government’s  Purchasing Managers ’ Index fell
to 50.2 in June from 50.4 in May, the National Bureau of
Statistics and China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing
reported on July 1. A separate PMI, compiled by HSBC Holdings
Plc and Market Economics, posted a final reading of 48.2 in June
compared with 48.4 in May, according to figures released the
next day.  “There’s still some uncertainty in the air,” Singh said.
“Unless growth measures are put in place or growth picks up,
the struggles of peripheral Europe will keep resurfacing as band
aids gradually come off.”  European Equities  Morgan Stanley’s European Equity Strategy team including
 Graham Secker , Ronan Carr and Matthew German raised the region’s
equities to neutral from underweight on July 2, saying the
decisions at the European Union summit had lowered risk.  Arkema, which sold an unprofitable vinyls business, jumped
15 percent as FT Alphaville reported the company received
takeover approaches valuing it at 5.5 billion euros ($6.8
billion) or more. The company has drawn interest from DuPont Co.
and BASF SE, FT Alphaville reported, citing “usually
knowledgeable sources.”  GKN rallied 15 percent after  agreeing to buy  Volvo’s
aircraft-engine unit for 633 million pounds. GKN said it will
raise 140 million pounds in a share sale to help pay for the
purchase.  Chr. Hansen Holding A/S (CHR)  surged 15 percent after the Danish
maker of natural food colors and cheese cultures reported
earnings that exceeded estimates. Third-quarter net income was
34.6 million euros, beating the average estimate of 33.1 million
euros in a Bloomberg News survey of eight analysts. The company
also predicted higher revenue growth for the fiscal year ending
Aug. 31.  Volkswagen, Porsche  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , Europe’s largest carmaker, climbed 5.5
percent after agreeing to buy the controlling stake in Porsche’s
automotive business for 4.46 billion euros. The transaction
enables VW to fully incorporate Porsche’s automotive business
into its stable of brands. Porsche added 2.1 percent.  Italian and Spanish banks sent a gauge of European lenders
1.4 percent lower for the  second-worst group performance  on the
 Stoxx 600. (SXXP)   UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and  Banco Popular Espanol SA (POP)  slumped 11
percent and 8.8 percent, respectively.  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  fell
9.5 percent, while  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA)  lost 8
percent.  Man Group Plc (EMG)  declined 16 percent as JPMorgan & Chase Co.
cut its price estimate for the world’s largest publicly traded
hedge-fund manager by 55 percent to 45 pence, citing a
“disappointing”  investment performance  by the Man AHL
Diversified fund in the second quarter.  Separately, Credit Suisse Group AG cut the stock to neutral
from outperform and Societe Generale SA downgraded its
recommendation for the stock to hold from buy.  Rhoen Klinikum AG (RHK)  slumped 12 percent as Fresenius SE said
its tender offer failed to win enough shareholder support
because rival Asklepios Kliniken GmbH took a 5 percent stake in
Rhoen. About 84 percent of Rhoen Klinikum shares were tendered
in the offer, Fresenius said after the market closed on June 29.
The 22.50 euro-a-share bid was contingent on garnering at least
90 percent of the stock.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  