-- Europe Recalls Hamilton as Desperation Turns on the Debt
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y   a n d   I a n   K a t z
-- 2012-07-06T14:48:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/europe-recalls-hamilton-as-desperation-turns-on-the-debt.html
As  Europe  struggles to contain its
debt crisis, the name of an American dead for more than two
centuries is being invoked by those who think euro area nations
will have to trade some autonomy for fiscal stability.  Alexander Hamilton , the first U.S. Treasury secretary and
the face on the ten-dollar bill, offered cash-strapped states in
1790 a deal they eventually couldn’t refuse: The federal
government assumed their debts in return for more centralized
power. The alternative risked consigning their creditworthiness
to “burst and vanish,” and a breakup, Hamilton warned.  Europe can learn from Hamilton, said Paul de Grauwe, a
professor at the  London School  of Economics and two-time Belgian
candidate for a European Central Bank post. “His was a first
attempt at pooling debt and as with Germany today there was lots
of resistance.”  Debate over how much Europe should integrate has gone on
for years. It has been given new urgency as first Greece and
then others, including Spain and Italy, have faced borrowing
costs they cannot sustain, while Germany, with the region’s
healthiest economy, has demanded austerity in return for more
assistance.  While policy makers are taking baby steps toward closer
ties, national self-interest and ideology leave them balking at
the  United States  of Europe, viewed by some as the only solution
to the two-year crisis.  ‘Same Arguments’  “We hear all the same arguments Hamilton did, but he had a
project of nation building and we should do something similar”
de Grauwe said in a telephone interview yesterday. “It will, of
course, be more difficult as you don’t have as much
identification with the common project.”  “The Europeans might look to this early history in the
United States as a point of reference for what they’re doing,”
said C. Randall Henning, a fellow at the Peterson Institute for
International Economics in Washington. “They don’t want to
replicate what the United States did, but they want to draw
appropriate lessons from that and apply them.”  De Grauwe and Henning aren’t alone in bringing Hamilton
back to life, 208 years since the soldier-turned-statesman died
in his late forties from wounds in a duel with Aaron Burr.
Thomas Sargent accepted the  Nobel Prize  for economics in
December with a speech titled “United States then, Europe
now.”  Robert Zoellick  used his final days as World Bank
president to advocate a “Hamiltonian Solution” for Europe, a
position echoed by hedge fund Bridgewater Associates LP.  Hamilton Relevant  Hamilton is relevant today because his methods “frame the
choices that are being made now,” Sargent, a professor of
economics at  New York University , said in a telephone interview.
“The only way you’re going to bail people out is if you ensure
that you can take control of things, rewrite laws.”  Underpinning the calls for a European Hamilton and his push
for fiscal solidarity in return for less sovereignty are
parallels which make virtuous Germany a modern Virginia and
cash-strapped Greece a latter-day Massachusetts.  It was at Hamilton’s pressing that the federal government
assumed and honored the debts of states such as Massachusetts, a
precursor of the debate now raging over whether European
capitals should issue joint debt to assist those locked out of
markets. Hamilton argued that the debt was generated fighting
the British and the absolving of it was necessary to avoid
defaults and deliver a stronger, more-creditworthy nation. He
also pushed for the creation, in 1791, of the Bank of the United
States, the forerunner to the  Federal Reserve .  ‘Larger Project’  International Monetary Fund Managing Director  Christine Lagarde , in a Bloomberg TV interview July 3, spoke of a “larger
project” in Europe.  “Monetary, banking and hopefully fiscal union later on,”
said Lagarde, a former French finance minister.  Just as Europe mulls greater centralization over political
decisions and banking supervision, Hamilton won the power for
the federal government to oversee the selling of Treasury bonds
and impose tariffs to cover the costs of the debt assumption.  A proposal from German government advisers for a redemption
fund which would allow sovereign debt exceeding 60 percent of
gross domestic product to be pooled and paid off over time
mirrors a similar initiative for a sinking fund from Hamilton.  Personalities Matter  Personalities and their principles matter as much today as
then. German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  wants countries to
demonstrate greater budget responsibility before she’ll even
consider closer fiscal ties and has sought to put investors on
the hook in the event of default. That echoes how Virginia’s
 Thomas Jefferson  and James Madison kicked back at Hamilton’s
call for taxes, arguing that some states had repaid much of what
they owed and contending his plan to purchase states’ debt at
100 cents on the dollar would reward speculators.  Political compromise was the order of the day for Hamilton.
His first assumption bill was defeated by Congress in April
1790, and he only won after he agreed that the nation’s
permanent capital could be on the Potomac River near Virginia,
not in New York, his home city.  The states that still ran up debts later discovered that
bailouts weren’t on tap when the government let them go bust in
the mid-19th century, limiting the risk of moral hazard.  “Hamilton saw assuming debts as taking control,” said
Garrett Ward Sheldon, author of “What Would Jefferson Say” and
a political science professor at the University of Virginia’s
College at Wise. “Jefferson thought the states were autonomous.
But one thing that hasn’t changed is that whoever pays the piper
calls the tune. Today, that’s Germany. We all know that when
someone bails you out, they tend to end up controlling you.”  Jefferson ‘Duped’  Jefferson later complained to President  George Washington 
of being “duped” by Hamilton into agreeing to assumption,
“and of all the errors of my political life this has occasioned
me the deepest regret.”  In Europe, some policy makers are paying lip-service to the
idea of greater integration.  Leaders last week agreed their permanent rescue fund can
directly aid banks once a single financial supervisor is
created. A report crafted by officials including European Union
President  Herman Van Rompuy  also sought a “criteria-based and
phased” move to joint debt issuance over the next decade. In
return, more centralized decision-making would require countries
to seek approval before issuing government debt beyond agreed-
upon limits.  Euro-area government debt at the end of last year totaled
8.22 trillion euros ($10.1 trillion), a 5 percent increase from
2010, according to European Union data.  Spain’s 10-year bonds declined for a third day today,
pushing the yield to 7 percent. Italian bonds also fell, with
the 10-year yield rising as much as 10 basis points to 6.08
percent. Ten-year yields of 7 percent forced Greece, Ireland and
Portugal to seek sovereign bailouts.  Follow Hamilton  “At the end of the day, if you’re going to save the euro
zone you have to” follow Hamilton’s lead, former Citigroup Inc.
Senior Vice Chairman  William Rhodes  said in a June 22 television
interview on  Bloomberg Surveillance . He is now chief executive
officer of William R. Rhodes Global Advisors LLC.  There is still a long way to go. Merkel, 57, says there
will be no shared liability for debt in her lifetime. French
President  Francois Hollande  is unwilling to cede sovereignty
over budgets. The Italian and Spanish governments led complaints
from the so-called periphery that austerity alone wouldn’t solve
their problems.  There still isn’t the appetite for a “Cultural
Revolution,” in which Europe follows Hamilton’s advice to
“think continental,” said Huw Pill, chief European economist
at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., in a research note to clients.  While this would offer a “rapid and effective resolution
of the crisis,” Pill said the likelihood of it is “low”
because authorities are “in thrall to their national political
constituencies.”  “Thinking national rather than continental is therefore
the most likely result,” said Pill, a former European Central
Bank economist.  Major Obstacle  The Hamilton model “is potentially instrumental,” though
“Europe is not America,” said  Olli Rehn , European economic and
monetary affairs commissioner in a Bloomberg TV interview June
18. “We move in steps.”  A major obstacle is the lack of a Hamilton-like visionary
in Europe or a constitution on which a more federal Europe can
be built, said Nathan Sheets, Citigroup’s New York-based chief
international economist.  “If there is a European Hamilton I’m just not sure who it
is,” said Sheets, a former Federal Reserve official. “If I
have a criticism of Europe’s handling of the crisis it’s that
they’ve never articulated what their vision is to get from today
to a happy prosperous future.”  Niall Ferguson , a professor of history at  Harvard
University , faults Merkel given her economy should lead the way
as the region’s richest. “We have a problem in the lack of
vision,” he said. “It would have to be a German, so Alex Von Hamilton, and that person just isn’t there.”  Other Differences  There are other differences between the Europe of today and
Hamilton’s America, according to John Steele Gordon, the author
of “Hamilton’s Blessing,” a 1997 book on Hamilton and the  U.S.
debt . Finance was much simpler then and the 13 U.S. colonies had
more in common than the euro zone members with the same
language, law and British tradition. Even after assumption, a
civil war had broken out in 70 years.  “I wouldn’t wish a civil war on Europe,” said Steele
Gordon. “The differences between Greece and Germany are much
greater than those between Georgia and Massachusetts.”  Whatever Europe does, it will have to act soon, said Kim Schoenholtz, director of the Center for Global Economy and
Business at the Stern School of Business in New York.  “Europe’s problem is that it’s running out of time,” he
said. “The question isn’t whether it’s plausible to imagine a
Hamiltonian solution. The question is whether it’s plausible to
imagine one that can be organized in the time that monetary
union has.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  