-- Ex-Bankas Snoras Owners Arrested Again in U.K. Over Fraud Claims
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-07-06T11:25:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/ex-bankas-snoras-owners-arrested-again-in-u-k-over-fraud-claims.html
Bankas Snoras AB’s former owners were
arrested again in London today on expanded claims they siphoned
at least 1.7 billion litas ($609.5 million) from the failed
Lithuanian lender to finance luxurious lifestyles.  Russian banker  Vladimir Antonov  and his business partner
Raimondas Baranauskas, who were detained in November and are
fighting extradition to Lithuania, were arrested a second time
after authorities probing the bank’s collapse in the Baltic
country issued another European arrest warrant containing new
allegations,  John Hardy , a lawyer for the prosecution, said at a
scheduled hearing today in London’s Westminster Magistrates
Court.  The case will be limited to the claims in the previous
warrant and the new one, even if additional information is found
by Lithuanian investigators, Judge John Zani ruled today. Both
men deny the claims and declined to comment outside court.  “These men need to know if they are going back to
Lithuania or not” so they can “get on with their lives,” Zani
said. The judge freed the men on their existing bail conditions
and scheduled another hearing for July 27.  Antonov, 37, and Baranauskas, 54, are wanted in  Lithuania 
for allegedly forging documents and fixing accounts in a scheme
that caused the collapse of the country’s third-biggest bank by
deposits and financed purchases of luxury homes, cars and a U.K.
soccer team. Antonov claims the case may be politically
motivated due to articles in newspapers he owned.  The men are fighting the fraud charges in Lithuania, where
prosecutors issued arrest warrants in May doubling the size of
the claims against them.  Snoras filed a separate civil lawsuit on May 18 against the
men in Britain for 395.5 million pounds ($613 million), accusing
them of breaching their duties to Snoras and misappropriating or
misusing its assets. A court order freezing the men’s assets was
granted by the court a day earlier.  Hardy said after today’s hearing that the new claims
increase the amount of money that was taken by the men, but he
wasn’t able to determine by how much.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in  London  at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  