-- Ex-Progress Directors Say Duke CEO Switch Was ‘Deceit’
-- B y   M a r k   C h e d i a k   a n d   B e n j a m i n   H a a s
-- 2012-07-06T22:31:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/ex-progress-directors-say-duke-ceo-switch-was-deceit-.html
Three former Progress Energy Inc.
board members said they would have voted against  Duke Energy
Corp. (DUK) ’s takeover had they known that Duke’s chief executive
officer would remain in charge of the combined companies.  “I wouldn’t have voted for the deal,” James Bostic Jr.,
who served on Progress’s board since 2002, said in a phone
interview today. “I believed that  Bill Johnson  would be able to
run the combined companies in a more efficient manner and offer
a much stronger return to shareholders.”  Duke announced on July 3 that Johnson, the chairman and CEO
of Progress, had resigned and wouldn’t take over as president
and CEO of the combined companies as planned as the $17.8
billion transaction was complete. Duke Chairman and CEO  James
Rogers , who was supposed to be chairman after the merger, was
asked by the board to continue as CEO.  Standard & Poor’s  put Duke, the largest U.S. utility owner
by market value, on negative credit watch after “the abrupt
change in executive leadership.” The surprise decision to
change CEOs as its takeover closed was deceitful, according to
John H. Mullin, who also served on Progress’s board.  “I do not believe that a single director of Progress would
have voted for this transaction as structured with the knowledge
that the CEO of Duke,  Jim Rogers , would remain as the CEO of the
combined company,” Mullin, a former managing director for
investment banker Dillon Read & Co., wrote in a July 5 letter to
the Wall Street Journal.  Regulatory Review  The new Duke board met without Rogers or Johnson and
decided on the switch, Rogers said in a July 3 interview. Under
terms of the merger, the board is composed of 11 Duke
representatives and seven from Progress. Bostic and Mullin were
among eight Progress directors who weren’t added to the new
board.  North Carolina  opened an investigation into the merger to
determine if Duke Energy made misstatements regarding the
takeover, according to an e-mailed statement from Roy Cooper,
the state’s attorney general.  The North Carolina Utilities Commission, which approved the
deal on June 29, is considering what steps it might take in the
wake of Johnson’s exit, Sam Watson, general counsel for the
agency, said in a phone interview today. The commission has the
power to rescind any decision made by it,  according to its
rules.   “We do not comment on our board’s deliberations,”  Tom Williams , a spokesman for  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Duke,
said in an e-mail. The company said on July 3 it wouldn’t
comment further on Johnson’s resignation, which it has said was
done by “mutual agreement.”  Johnson, who signed a non-disparagement agreement with
Duke, didn’t respond to a voicemail message left at his North
Carolina home.  ‘Work Together’  “There was information that Duke didn’t share with us, and
it may have changed the outcome,” Alfred Tollison, another
former Progress director, said in a phone interview today.
“Duke may have fulfilled the letter of the agreement, but they
didn’t fulfill the spirit,” he said, referring to Johnson
occupying the CEO position for one day.  The merger was announced in January 2011 and completed on
July 2 after receiving state and federal approvals. Progress’s
board unanimously recommended that shareholders vote in favor of
the deal, according to a July 2011 regulatory filing.  “I don’t really have any idea what would have happened,”
said Bostic, a former vice president of Georgia-Pacific LLC. “I
expected that Johnson and Rogers were going to work together and
they were going to make this a successful merger.”  Mullin’s letter was reported earlier today by the  New York 
Times and  Wall Street  Journal.  Duke  fell  3.4 percent to $66.23 at the close in New York,
the biggest decline since Aug. 10.  Johnson’s appointment as CEO of the new company was “a
critical element in the merger deliberations,” Mullin wrote in
the letter. “This is the most blatant example of corporate
deceit that I have witnessed during a long career on Wall
Street.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Chediak in  San Francisco  at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net ;
Benjamin Haas in New York at 
 bhaas7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tina Davis at 
 tinadavis@bloomberg.net  