-- Lopez Obrador Questions Mexican Presidential Vote Recount
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n   a n d   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2012-07-06T22:47:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/mexico-s-lopez-obrador-says-recount-of-ballots-is-unsatis.html
Mexican presidential candidate Andres Manuel  Lopez Obrador  said he isn’t satisfied with the partial
recount of ballots that confirmed Enrique Pena Nieto’s July 1
victory and is deciding day by day how to protest the result.  Lopez Obrador reiterated claims that Pena Nieto’s
 Institutional Revolutionary Party , or PRI, used gift cards and
other “well-designed” strategies to buy millions of votes. He
said he would follow legal channels to challenge the results.  “We’re working to demonstrate with seriousness and
precision how many votes were bought, and where and how money
was involved in this immoral, fraudulent operation,” Lopez
Obrador told reporters today at his Mexico City headquarters.
“This is what we’re doing, and we’re going to dedicate all of
the weekend to this.”  Lopez Obrador challenged preliminary results that showed
him trailing Pena Nieto by 6.6 percentage points. His
accusations gained credibility after television images showed
shoppers mobbing supermarkets to use gift cards allegedly
provided by the PRI in exchange for vote promises. Lopez
Obrador’s coalition said it detected irregularities at more than
half of polling stations, though foreign observers have praised
authorities’ handling of the vote.  Lopez Obrador said PRI state governors were the biggest
organizers of vote buying. He said in a press conference
yesterday the practice was widespread in the state of  Mexico ,
where Pena Nieto was governor from 2005 to 2011.  Final Count  A final tally that includes a recount of more than half of
the 50.3 million votes cast was completed today, according to
data on the  website  of Mexico’s Federal Electoral Institute, or
IFE. It showed Pena Nieto received 38.2 percent of votes,
compared with 31.6 percent for Lopez Obrador. That is little
changed on the preliminary count.  When asked by a reporter what he seeks to accomplish
through his challenge of the election, Lopez Obrador said he
hopes to “defend democracy, defend the votes of citizens, and
not accept any electoral falsification.” In response to a
question about whether he wants a new election, he said “we’re
going to be gradually talking about it.”  A group called “I Am Mexico” on its Twitter page called
for marches in the nation’s main plazas tomorrow against Mexican
media coverage of the election, the PRI and electoral fraud.
Lopez Obrador’s campaign said that the march is organized by
citizens and the candidate isn’t involved.  ‘Framed’  The PRI yesterday demanded a probe of what it said were
false claims by Lopez Obrador. The party was “framed” to
appear to be distributing the retail cards, according to an e-
mailed statement.  Pena Nieto, in an interview with CNN International’s
Christiane Amanpour, questioned the accuracy of images
purportedly showing shoppers mobbing supermarkets to use gift
cards provided by the PRI.  “There’s no grounds” for much of these allegations, Pena
Nieto said. “Let’s give the electoral tribunal a chance to
weigh the evidence presented regarding these statements which,
as I repeat, have no grounds.”  Officials in the nation’s capital shuttered two
supermarkets belonging to Organizacion Soriana SAB, Mexico’s
second largest retailer, after they were mobbed by shoppers with
gift cards, citing safety concerns.  Gift Cards  Standing outside one of the closed Soriana stores in Mexico
City, Rogelio Garcia said people wearing PRI T-shirts came to
his home last week and put a party sticker on his front door in
exchange for two gift cards worth a total of 2,300 pesos ($172).
The retailer has denied any involvement in the card
distribution.  “The woman said she came on behalf of the PRI,” Garcia
said on July 4. “People said, ‘don’t take it,’ but why not? I
voted for whomever I wanted in the end.”  While Josefina Vazquez Mota, the ruling  National Action
Party  candidate that placed third, said she would respect the
election’s results, she called on authorities yesterday to
“review, with great detail, campaign spending that evidently
was greater than the limit established by law, and which also
has been associated with buying and forcing votes.”  Vazquez Mota received 25.4 percent of votes, IFE data show.  Buying or Forcing Votes  The number of gift cards involved in the allegations, at
least 9,000, “could make it more probable to formulate that a
crime of buying or forcing votes was committed,” Ricardo
Becerra, a coordinator for IFE’s advisers, said in a phone
interview yesterday in Mexico City.  Nevertheless, “buying or forcing a vote does not appear as
one of the causes for voiding elections,” Becerra said.  The practice of giving out electoral paraphernalia and
gifts is widespread, said Roderic Ai Camp, a Mexico specialist
and government professor at  Claremont McKenna College  in
Claremont,  California .  “It’s true of all parties,” he said by phone. Officials
“at the local level are still using these techniques from years
ago. And of course there’s not empirical data that it actually
affects people’s behavior.”  The practice is only illegal if it is meant to directly
affect how you’re going to vote, “and of course that’s a pretty
vague notion,” Ai Camp said.  Transparent  Mexican authorities are calling the election the most
transparent in the country’s history and a mission of foreign
observers led by former Colombian President Cesar Gaviria also
gave its approval, saying irregularities don’t take away from
what was a well-run election.  Lopez Obrador, 58, lost the 2006 election to current
President  Felipe Calderon  by less than a percentage point. To
protest the result, which he said was fraudulent, his supporters
occupied Mexico City’s central plaza and main business avenue
for weeks with encampments. He also registered legal challenges
with electoral authorities.  The candidate has given no indication he will lead protests
this time, instead saying complaints about the election will be
filed to the electoral institute and tribunal.  “The irony is that if he hadn’t behaved the way he did six
years ago in not recognizing the election results, he would have
very likely won this election,” Ai Camp said.  Congressional Results  A recount of congressional races also began yesterday, and
with close to half of the votes tallied for the lower house, the
PRI-led coalition was falling short of a majority, in line with
preliminary results. Authorities are recounting 61 percent of
ballot boxes for the congressional race and results may be
released this weekend.  Jorge Carlos Ramirez, Pena Nieto’s deputy campaign chief,
estimated July 2 the PRI-led alliance will have about 241
lawmakers in the 500-seat lower house. In the Senate, the PRI
and allied  Green Party  will get at most 61 out of 128 seats,
according to projections by polling company Consulta Mitofsky
based on the preliminary tally.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Martin in Mexico City at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  