-- Fast Retailing Cuts Profit Target on Domestic Sales Decline
-- B y   Y u k i   Y a m a g u c h i
-- 2012-07-06T08:20:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/fast-retailing-cuts-profit-target-amid-domestic-sales-decline.html
Fast Retailing Co. (9983) , the Japanese
retailer that sells Uniqlo branded apparel, cut its forecast for
annual profit amid a decline in domestic clothing sales.  The company projected earnings of 79 billion yen ($989
million) for the year ending August, lower than its previous
forecast of 81.5 billion yen.  The casual clothing maker, led by billionaire President
 Tadashi Yanai , has expanded outside of  Japan  to cut its
dependence on its  home market . The company has been trying to
revive its image in Japan, where same-store sales at its Uniqlo
stores fell 7 percent in June.  Uniqlo’s Japan comparable-store sales fell 5.4 percent in
the three months ended May as lower temperatures hurt demand for
summer clothing, the company said.  For the third quarter ended May, the company’s earnings
rose 26 percent to 14.7 billion yen from 11.7 billion yen a year
earlier, according to Bloomberg calculations based on nine-month
figures reported by Fast Retailing. That compares with a 14.2
billion yen average estimate for the third quarter from three
analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  Domestic Pressures  For August and July, Uniqlo domestic same-store sales are
likely to be in line with a year earlier, Chief Financial
Officer Takeshi Okazaki said at a press conference today. They
are likely to be slightly lower for the fiscal year, he said.  The company has lowered its overseas Uniqlo sales forecast
for the fiscal year by 3 billion yen to 157 billion yen as it
faces more competition in the U.S., the CFO said. It expects the
U.S. business to turn profitable next fiscal year or the year
after.  Fast Retailing plans to open as many as 300 outlets every
year mainly in  Asia  and have more than 2,000 outlets in  Greater
China  and other Asian countries in the next 10 years, Yanai has
said.  The Yamaguchi, western Japan-based company opened the
world’s largest Uniqlo brand casual clothing store in  Tokyo ’s
Ginza district earlier this year, is using English as an
official language and hiring international staff.  The stock closed up 0.06 percent to 15,790 yen in Tokyo
trading today. It is up 13 percent for the year compared with a
5.9 percent gain for the broader Topix index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuki Yamaguchi in Tokyo at 
 yyamaguchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  