-- Murray Ends Britain’s 74-Year Wait for Wimbledon Final Place
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-07-06T20:11:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/federer-defeats-djokovic-to-move-to-eighth-wimbledon-final-1-.html
Andy Murray  became the first British
man in 74 years to reach the Wimbledon final, beating Jo- Wilfried Tsonga for a berth against six-time champion  Roger Federer .  Murray defeated the Frenchman 6-3, 6-4, 3-6, 7-5 on Centre
Court to end a run of three straight semifinal losses. Federer
earlier reached a record eighth men’s final at the All England
Club by beating defending champion Novak Djokovic.  “At the end of the match it was obviously very
emotional,” Murray said in a news conference. “Haven’t really
been like that before in a semifinal match, so obviously it
meant something to me and it was very, very important.”  Oddsmakers installed Federer at the 4-9 favorite for the
title.  Murray won with a forehand return that landed on the line.
It was called out, and he successful appealed the decision to
become the first British man in the Wimbledon final since Henry
“Bunny” Austin in 1938. The victory ends a run of 11 defeats
for British men in the Wimbledon semifinals since Austin’s
success, which occurred when Queen Elizabeth II’s father, King
George VI, was on the throne.  No British man has taken a Grand Slam singles title since
 Fred Perry  won the U.S. Championships in 1936. Perry also won
Wimbledon that year, and his statue is the first thing
spectators see when they enter the grounds.  Murray pointed his index fingers to the sky and dropped to
his knees after the victory. He has lost all three Grand Slam
finals he’s played: the 2008  U.S. Open  and 2010 Australian Open
to Federer, and the 2011 Australian to Djokovic of  Serbia .  Federer Favored  The 25-year-old Murray has won eight of the 15 times he’s
played Federer. U.K. gambling website William Hill gives Federer
odds of 4-9 to win in the championship match on July 8, which
means a successful $9 beat would return $4 plus the original
stake. Murray is the 13-8 underdog.  The 30-year-old from Switzerland beat Djokovic, the top
seed and defending champion, in the day’s first semifinal to
move closer to regaining the top ranking in men’s tennis.  Federer, the winner of a men’s record 16 Grand Slam singles
titles, defeated the 25-year-old 6-3, 3-6, 6-4, 6-3 under the
roof on Centre Court.  ‘Murray Mania’  “Murray Mania” in the British media has been on the
increase with every win, especially after two-time champion
 Rafael Nadal  was upset in the second round by 100th-ranked Lukas
Rosol of the  Czech Republic . Murray, who lost to Nadal in the
two previous semifinals, had been drawn in the same half as the
Spanish left-hander.  Murray played a tactical match against the hard-hitting
Tsonga in the first two sets, pulling him into the net with drop
shots followed by passing shots. Murray won the first set with a
forehand as the crowd roared. The 27-year-old Tsonga asked for
the trainer after he lost the second set, with Murray barely
making an error.  Tsonga, who used powerful ground strokes to beat Federer
from two sets down in the quarterfinals last year, won the third
set as he rushed to the net and dictated the points. Serving for
the third set at 5-3, Tsonga sank to his knees after a serve hit
him in the crotch. He recovered to win the set when Murray
netted a return.  Murray broke for a 3-1 lead in the fourth set, only for
Tsonga to break back with a crushing forehand return at Murray’s
feet.  Oldest Semifinalist  Federer, the oldest semifinalist, hasn’t won a major title
since the 2010 Australian Open. His seventh Wimbledon
championship would tie the men’s record held by  Pete Sampras  and
 William Renshaw . He’d never played Djokovic on grass.  “It was obviously a big occasion,” Federer told
reporters. “These matches only help my confidence. I hope I can
use it then for the finals.”  If he wins the title, he’ll reclaim the top spot in the ATP
World Tour rankings, where he’s one week short of tying
Sampras’s record of 286 weeks at No. 1.  “I’ve got a tough task ahead of me,” Federer said.
“There is a lot on the line for me, the No. 1. There will be
pressure.”  Djokovic said he had felt ill for almost a week.  “I had bad last couple days,” he said in a news
conference. “Last five, six days I wasn’t feeling great. But I
don’t want to talk about it now.”  Royal Box  Under the Centre Court roof and watched by former champion
 Rod Laver  and singer  Kylie Minogue  from the royal box, Djokovic
handed Federer a break point in the first set as he lunged for a
backhand volley that landed in the net. Federer broke as
Djokovic netted another backhand. Serving at 5-3, Federer took
the set in 24 minutes with a forehand winner.  Improving his returns in the second set, Djokovic broke
serve for a 2-0 lead as a backhand down the line forced Federer
into an error. He served out the set with his fifth ace.  At 2-3 down in the third, Djokovic fought off two break
points in a game of baseline rallies as long as 26 shots.
Serving at 4-5 down, Djokovic handed Federer two set points with
a smash that sailed long. He saved one with a forehand winner,
only for Federer to take a two-sets-to-one lead with a smash.  Service Problems  Djokovic kept on struggling with his serve, getting broken
in the opening game of the fourth set. Federer took a 3-0 lead
and served out the match as Djokovic hit a forehand return into
the net, his 21st error. Federer only made 10 errors and
produced 31 winners, three more than his opponent.  “In the start of the fourth set I dropped in the energy
level, I thought,” Djokovic said. “I played really a couple of
sloppy games, very slow, with no pace, very low percentage of
first serves. When you don’t have free points from the first
serve, it’s very difficult to kind of get in the rhythm and the
control of the match when you have an opponent as Federer.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at Wimbledon through the London sports desk at
   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  