-- FedEx Gets Market Upgrade as Web Work Soars: Corporate Finance
-- B y   H e a t h e r   P e r l b e r g
-- 2012-07-06T04:00:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/fedex-gets-market-upgrade-as-web-work-soars-corporate-finance.html
Debt traders are indicating  FedEx
Corp. (FDX) , after an eight-year drought, is headed for a second 2012
credit upgrade as rising online commerce keeps ground deliveries
growing even as the  U.S. economy  shows signs of faltering.  Credit-default swaps linked to debt of the operator of the
world’s largest cargo airline have traded at levels implying it
should be graded A3 since May 7, according to Moody’s Corp.’s
capital markets research group, one level higher than its Baa1
mark from the company’s rating arm. FedEx’s 8 percent bonds due
in January 2019 yield 2.59 percent, less than the 2.85 percent
on all A rated corporates due in five to seven years, according
to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data.  FedEx, founded by Chief Executive Officer  Fred Smith  four
decades ago, is profiting from rising sales at online retailers
such as Amazon.com Inc. that use it to ship goods. The company’s
 ratio  of debt to earnings before income, taxes, depreciation and
amortization has declined to 0.32 times on May 31 from 1.10
times in 2004 as income rose in each of the past three years.  “More people are buoying the e-commerce market, which is
good news for FedEx,” Brian Studioso, an analyst at
CreditSights Inc. in  London , said in a telephone interview.
“They have been working hard on the ground business. Customers
are downshifting from the high margin express business to
ground.”  Operating Margin  The ground business of the Memphis, Tennessee-based company
achieved a 20 percent operating margin in the fourth quarter of
the fiscal year ended May 31. Sales were driven by “the growth
of e-commerce” with increased demand for products ordered from
companies such as Amazon and Wal-Mart Stores Inc.’s online unit,
Chief Financial Officer Alan Graf said during a June 19
teleconference to discuss fourth-quarter results with analysts
and investors. The operating margin was a record, according to a
June 19 company statement.  Jess Bunn, a spokesman for FedEx, declined to comment on a
potential upgrade.  An economic bellwether because it carries everything from
mobile devices to pharmaceuticals, FedEx forecast U.S. economic
growth of 2.2 percent for this fiscal year, Bunn said. That’s
down from 2.3 percent in December, he said.  FedEx, which had  $1.25 billion  of long-term debt outstanding
on May 31, may attract bond investors away from  United Parcel
Service Inc. (UPS)  as they seek to curb risk from the company’s $6.5
billion acquisition of TNT Express NV, which was spun off in May
from Dutch postal operator PostNL NV.  ‘Higher Yield’  The purchase by UPS, the world’s largest package-delivery
company, comes as  Europe ’s economy shrinks toward what the
 International Monetary Fund  predicted in January will be a “mild
recession” in Europe this year. It said this week the U.S.
economy would experience a “tepid” recovery.  FedEx’s $250 million of 7.375 percent notes due January 2014
traded April 30 at 111 cents on the dollar to yield 0.91
percent, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of
the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. UPS’s $1 billion of
3.875 percent notes due April 2014 were quoted at 106 cents for
a yield of 0.57 percent on June 15.  “FedEx has a higher yield and less event risk than UPS
right now,” Studioso said. “TNT is still the fourth-largest
competitor in the industry, so any kind of integration comes
with risks.”  Debt Ratings  Moody’s Investors Service raised its rating on FedEx to
Baa1 from Baa2, in January, citing the shipping company’s
“franchise strength” in the market for express services and
growth in the ground segment, “which has helped it sustain good
earnings and free cash flow generation over the economic
cycle.” It was the first ratings change at Moody’s since 2004,
according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Standard & Poor’s  has rated FedEx BBB, one level below the
current Moody’s grade, since February 2004. UPS is rated Aa3 at
Moody’s and an equivalent AA- at S&P, with “negative” outlooks
at both companies.  Credit-default swaps linked to FedEx borrowings traded
yesterday at 92 basis points, down from 133 basis points on Oct.
4, according to data compiled by CMA and Bloomberg. That means
investors would pay $92,000 annually to protect $10 million of
FedEx debt.  The contracts, which typically rise as investor confidence
deteriorates and fall as it improves, pay the buyer face value
if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the value of
the defaulted debt.  ‘Less Risky’  FedEx, which Smith conceived in a 1965 college term paper
at Yale, purchased the Flying Tigers freight airline in 1989 to
gain routes to 21 Asian countries. More recently, it spent $427
million in 2007 to take over a joint venture with China’s
Tianjin Datian W. Group Co.  Last year, FedEx got 30 percent of its $39.4 billion of
revenue from  international  shipments, has been broadening its
global network though smaller acquisitions than UPS. FedEx
completed the purchase of TATEX, a French express transportation
company this week. The company agreed to buy AFL Pvt. and
affiliate Unifreight India Pvt. In 2010, followed by MultiPack,
a domestic express-delivery company in  Mexico .  While UPS tries to figure out how to integrate its European
operations with TNT, FedEx “should have a much easier time
growing with these smaller, less risky integrations,”  David Ross , an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus in Baltimore wrote in a May
10 report.  FedEx agreed to buy 19 Boeing Co. 767 jets last week, the
first freighters the planemaker has sold in 2012 as shippers
curbed purchases amid the slowing global economy. Air cargo fell
2.3 percent in the first four months of the year from 2011, the
 International Air Transport Association  said.  New jets will help profitability at FedEx by paring fuel
costs as the economy crimps express shipments.  Economic Growth  “Because FedEx is more oriented toward the air business,
their earnings can be somewhat more volatile, but they have more
leverage when things begin to pick up,” Lisa Jenkins, an S&P
debt analyst, said in a telephone interview. “So you might see
more of an improvement with them than UPS when the economy picks
up more.”  Forrester Research Inc. said in a Feb. 27 report that e-
commerce in the U.S. will grow 14 percent annually this year and
next year and 10 percent in 2014.  FedEx last month predicted profit of $6.90 to $7.40 a share
in the fiscal year through May, compared with $6.41 last year
and an average  estimate  of $7.33 from analysts. The company’s
Ebitda rose to $5.43 billion in the year through May 31, up from
$3.93 billion in fiscal 2009.  ‘So Efficient’  Revenue and earnings growth will be impacted by “weaker
economic conditions” such as the  European debt crisis , and
slowing growth in  Asia , Graf said on the earnings call.
Customers are shifting from premium to deferred products as they
seek to reduce shipping expenses, a trend expected to continue
in 2013, executives said.  “The ground network is taking share from domestic express
service because it has just gotten so efficient,”  Kevin Sterling , a Richmond, Virginia-based equity analyst with BB&T
Capital Markets said in a telephone interview. “From a ground
standpoint it’s so much cheaper to ship, and you are seeing
record margins because of e-commerce.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Perlberg in  New York  at 
 hperlberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
James Langford at 
 jlangford2@bloomberg.net  