-- Forest Labs Seen Needing Deal Amid Patent Loss: Real M&A
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2012-07-06T21:03:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/forest-lab-seen-needing-deal-amid-patent-losses-real-m-a.html
Forest Laboratories Inc. (FRX)  needs
acquisitions to counter a projected 80 percent drop in profit
this year as patents on its top-selling drugs start to expire.  About three-quarters of the company’s more than $4.5
billion of sales last year were generated by the antidepressant
Lexapro, which lost exclusivity in March, and Namenda, an
Alzheimer’s treatment facing the end of its patent protection in
2015.  Net income  at New York-based Forest, where costs have
risen faster than sales over the last five years, is projected
to tumble the most in at least 16 years, according to analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  With more net  cash  relative to its $9.5 billion market
value than every other similar-sized specialty drugmaker in the
U.S., Forest should use its $3.2 billion in cash and marketable
securities to fund an acquisition that will give it new drugs to
replace lost sales, according to Robert W. Baird & Co. and Piper
Jaffray Cos. Forest, which is embroiled in a proxy fight with
 Carl Icahn , may find  Salix Pharmaceuticals Ltd. (SLXP) , the $3.2
billion maker of a treatment for travelers’ diarrhea, to be an
attractive target, said Susquehanna International Group LLP.  “The pipeline, as currently constituted, is not nearly
enough to replace the lost revenue from losing Lexapro and
Namenda to generics,”  David Amsellem , an analyst with Piper
Jaffray in  New York , said in a telephone interview. “I think
that if they were to be more aggressive on M&A and not just look
at one-off pipeline assets, but rather look at commercial-stage
assets as well, and were more aggressive in using their balance
sheet, that they can definitely get themselves out of the
hole.”  ‘Strongest Pipelines’  “Forest already has developed one of the strongest
pipelines in biopharma today, which we believe will more than
offset the patent expirations of Lexapro and Namenda over
time,” Forest said in an e-mailed statement. “We maintain an
extremely active and disciplined business development program,
enabling us to identify promising new product license and
acquisition opportunities that will enhance our pipeline and
portfolio even further.”  Forest last month cut its  forecast  for fiscal 2013, which
ends in March, because Lexapro sales are being reduced by  Teva
Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) ’s generic version.  As a result, analysts are projecting Forest’s  revenue  this
year will tumble 28 percent to $3.3 billion, the  lowest  annual
level since 2006. The company will post net income of about $191
million, an 80 percent drop from fiscal 2012,  estimates  compiled
by Bloomberg show.  Generic Competition  Generic versions of Namenda, its other top-seller, can
enter the U.S. market starting in 2015.  “The patent expirations put them in a position of
weakness,” Jay Singhania, a  money manager  at Dallas-based
Westwood Holdings Group Inc., which oversees $13.9 billion, said
in a phone interview. “They’re overleveraged to two products.
They’re in a tougher spot than companies that have another base
of earnings.”  Lexapro had $2.1 billion of  sales  last year, 46 percent of
Forest’s total revenue. Namenda accounted for $1.4 billion, or
about 31 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Of 104 drugs with U.S. patent protection expiring between
2012 and 2016, 44 percent will lose exclusivity this year and
next, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Companies from
 AstraZeneca Plc (AZN)  to  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  are now using their
cash for takeovers to help replace the lost revenue.  Drug Takeovers  AstraZeneca, which will lose exclusive rights to two of its
best-selling medicines by 2014, last month completed the $1.12
billion acquisition of Ardea Biosciences Inc. Bristol-Myers,
which faces patent expirations for three of its top four drugs
within three years, agreed last week to buy  Amylin
Pharmaceuticals Inc. (AMLN)  for $6.5 billion, after earlier this year
paying $2 billion for Inhibitex Inc.  Forest’s $3.2 billion in  cash  and marketable securities --
along with no debt -- is equal to about a third of its market
value, a higher ratio than all 13 other specialty pharmaceutical
companies greater than $1 billion in the U.S., data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  “At some point, you’re going to see them use that balance
sheet,”  Gary Nachman , an analyst with Susquehanna in New York,
said in a phone interview. “I don’t think what they have in
their pipeline is enough.”  Salix, the maker of gastrointestinal  treatments , may be one
attractive target for Forest because its drugs could be marketed
by the same sales force that will sell the irritable bowel
syndrome medication that Forest is developing, he said.  Targeting Salix  Salix is the maker of Xifaxan, an antibiotic used to treat
traveler’s diarrhea and reduce the risk of a rare brain disorder
caused by liver failure. The drug had $372 million in sales last
year and a study is being done to evaluate its safety and
effectiveness as a short-term treatment for irritable bowel
syndrome.  Representatives for Morrisville, North Carolina-based Salix
didn’t respond to phone calls and e-mails seeking comment.  Shares of Salix fell 1.2 percent to $54.91 today, while
Forest declined 0.3 percent to $35.48.  “We’re always looking” for acquisitions, Frank Perier,
Forest’s chief financial officer, said on a Jan. 17 conference
call. “We are looking for opportunities that can add
significant incremental value to the overall earnings potential
of the business.”  Forest’s focus on drugs marketed to primary care physicians
has led to higher costs, according to Tom Russo, a Chicago-based
analyst for Baird. Those medicines face more competition from
generics and require more sales people to target a broad set of
customers, versus selling more specialized medicines, he said.  ‘Irresponsible’ Spending  Selling, general and administrative expenses at Forest have
climbed 48 percent over the past five years, outpacing a 35
percent increase in sales, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “We believe the company overspends in an irresponsible
way,” billionaire investor Icahn, 76, said in a phone interview
yesterday. General and administrative expenses are “way too
high. They’ve got to get the costs down and the earnings up.”  “Consistent with our past commercial successes, Forest has
been actively supporting the development and launch of our ‘next
nine’ products, which we believe will more than offset the
patent expirations of our legacy products,” Forest said in an
e-mailed statement. “We believe this investment is prudent,
necessary and fundamental to the growth of  shareholder value .”  Icahn, Forest’s second-largest  shareholder  with a 9.9
percent stake, is pursuing a proxy fight against the company for
the second year in a row. He has nominated four directors and
last week sued for access to its books and records.  ‘Theatrical Display’  This week, Icahn sent a letter to Forest Chief Executive
Officer Howard Solomon accusing management of making “a savvy
bet against” the drugmaker’s prospects by selling shares before
Lexapro lost patent protection. Following Icahn’s July 2
statement that he would look into the stock sales, Forest issued
a press release saying “we are not surprised by Mr. Icahn’s
theatrical display of self-serving rhetoric, but his public
rants do not serve any useful purpose.”  When asked whether Forest should pursue deals, Icahn said
he’s concerned that “Solomon will swing for the fences, using
company cash to make risky acquisitions.”  Forest already has other new drugs in the pipeline that can
partially offset lost sales. An experimental medicine called
linaclotide, used to treat irritable bowel syndrome and chronic
constipation, may draw $500 million in sales by 2017, according
to Nachman. In April, the U.S.  Food and Drug Administration 
delayed its decision for possible approval of the drug until
September. Forest also acquired the antidepressant Viibryd last
year through the purchase of Clinical Data Inc., valued at as
much as $1.2 billion, after the FDA approved the drug.  ‘High Expectations’  “Management’s excitement and satisfaction with its five-
year business prospects was tangible, and rightfully so,”
Annabel Samimy, a New York-based analyst at Stifel Nicolaus &
Co., wrote in a June 21 report. “Forest’s strategic approach
was well planned and executed. We now turn our sights to
commercial execution, for which we believe there are high
expectations.”  Baird’s Russo says the drugs in the pipeline won’t be
enough. Analysts on average estimate Forest’s stock will be
valued at $35.59 a year from now, only 2 cents more than its
closing  price  of $35.57 yesterday.  “Their two biggest legacy blockbuster products are going
off patent in a short period of time,” Russo said. A sizeable
acquisition “would be an appropriate strategy at this point.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at   srabil@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 