-- Forint Heads for First Week of Losses in a Month: Budapest Mover
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2012-07-06T13:25:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/forint-heads-for-first-week-of-losses-in-a-month-budapest-mover.html
The  Hungarian forint  headed for its
first weekly drop in more than a month on concern a planned tax
on central  bank transactions  will cause further delays in
obtaining an international bailout.  The forint depreciated 0.4 percent to 287.6 per euro by
2:39 p.m. in Budapest, bringing its decline this week to 0.6
percent.  Hungary ’s benchmark forint-denominated bonds maturing
in 2022 weakened the first time in four days, lifting yields 14
basis points to 7.955 percent.  Hungarian legislators today approved amendments to a
disputed central bank law which has blocked negotiations on an
International Monetary Fund loan for more than seven months. A
new tax on financial transactions proposed by the government may
violate European Union rules, the Magyar Nemzeti Bank said
yesterday. A joint IMF-EU mission will visit Hungary on July 17,
the EU said today.  “The transaction tax unnerves investors who are afraid the
IMF may not allow this and the much-awaited aid deal may be
delayed further,” Andras Sovany, a Budapest-based fixed income
trader at ING Groep NV, wrote in an e-mailed response to
questions from Bloomberg today.  The cost of insuring against default on Hungary’s debt with
credit-default swaps rose nine basis points to 508 basis points,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Negotiations Start  “The risk still stands that they could halt negotiations
if the  European Central Bank /EU do not agree with the tax” on
transactions, Thu Lan Nguyen, a Frankfurt-based strategist at
Commerzbank AG, wrote in an e-mailed response to questions from
Bloomberg after the EU announced the start of talks.  Hungary’s industrial output rose a workday-adjusted 1.9
percent in May from a year earlier after a 3.1 percent fall in
April, the Budapest-based statistics office said today, citing
preliminary data. Output fell 0.7 percent in the first five
months of 2012, pushing Hungary toward its second recession in
four years.  “Hungary is stuck in a no-growth rut and we expect the
forint to underperform its regional peers going forward,”
Christian Lawrence, a London-based currency strategist at
Rabobank International, wrote in e-mailed comments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  