-- German Stocks Decline After U.S. Payroll Report
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2012-07-06T16:17:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/german-stocks-decline-after-u-s-payroll-data.html
German stocks  dropped for a third day
as a report showed that the  U.S. economy  created fewer jobs last
month than economists had estimated.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  fell 4.7 percent after Reuters reported
that Germany’s financial regulator Bafin was conducting a probe
into interest-rate manipulation.  SAP AG (SAP) , the largest maker of
business software, lost 4.4 percent after Berenberg Bank said
information-technology companies may lower their earnings
forecasts for the year.  The  DAX Index (DAX)  retreated 1.9 percent to 6,410.11 at the
close of trade in Frankfurt. The gauge has still  climbed 7.4
percent from its 2012 low  on June 5 as Greece formed a new
government and European Union leaders opened the door to
directly recapitalizing lenders using the euro area’s permanent
bailout fund. The broader HDAX Index also slid 1.9 percent
today.  “The DAX reacted negatively to the disappointing U.S. data
because the U.S. market is very important for German
exporters,” said Daniel Zindstein, head of  portfolio management 
at GECAM AG in Wangen, Germany. “The fewer people that have
jobs in the U.S., the less they consume and buy German cars,
consumer goods, building materials, flights, steel, sports goods
and so on.”  In the U.S., payrolls rose 80,000 last month after climbing
a revised 77,000 in May, a Labor Department report showed today.
Economists had projected a 100,000 gain, according to the median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey. The  unemployment rate 
remained at 8.2 percent. Private employment increased 84,000 in
June, the weakest in 10 months.  Central Banks  The European Central Bank yesterday reduced its benchmark
rate to a record low of 0.75 percent and cut its deposit rate to
zero. Also yesterday, China lowered its borrowing costs and the
Bank of England increased its asset-purchase program.  In Germany, a report from the Economy Ministry today showed
that the country’s  industrial output  rebounded in May more than
economists had forecast as construction buttressed Europe’s
largest economy against the sovereign-debt crisis. Production
rose 1.6 percent from April, the release said. Economists had
forecast an increase of 0.2 percent, the  median of 36 estimates 
in a Bloomberg News survey showed. Production was unchanged from
a year earlier when adjusted for working days.  Carmakers Fall  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , the world’s biggest maker of
luxury cars, slipped 4.6 percent to 56.42 euros after Morgan
Stanley downgraded the stock to equal weight, the equivalent of
hold, from overweight.  Daimler AG (DAI) , the third-largest maker of luxury cars, fell
3.3 percent to 35.34 euros. Volkswagen AG, Europe’s biggest
carmaker, fell 2.7 percent to 130.9 euros. A gauge of automakers
posted the biggest decline on the benchmark  Stoxx Europe 600
Index. (SXXP)   Deutsche Bank AG fell 4.7 percent to 27.39 euros. Bafin is
conducting a special probe into possible manipulation of London
Interbank-Offered Rate, or Libor, Reuters reported, citing
people familiar with the matter. The German regulator declined
to comment specifically on whether it was probing Deutsche Bank,
the  news agency  said.  Commerzbank AG (CBK) , Germany’s second largest, bank declined 3.5
percent to 1.25 euros.  SAP lost 4.4 percent to 45.55 euros.  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) , Europe’s second-biggest airline,
gained 0.8 percent to 9.27 euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  