-- Gevo Told Not to Ship Fuel Product Pending Appeal
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2012-07-06T23:38:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/gevo-told-by-judge-not-to-ship-fuel-product-pending-appeal-1-.html
A U.S. judge who told Gevo Inc. last
month it didn’t infringe a patent held by Butamax Advanced
Biofuels LLC, a joint venture of  DuPont Co. (DD)  and  BP Plc (BP/) , today
ordered it not to distribute its renewable-fuel products to any
third party related to automotive use during an appeal.  Butamax sued Gevo, backed by the oil refiner  Total SA (FP)  and
specialty-chemicals maker  Lanxess AG (LXS) , in 2011 alleging misuse of
technology for genetically engineered microorganisms used to
produce biofuels. U.S. District Judge Sue Robinson in mid-June
denied Butamax’s bid to block Gevo’s fuel sales.  “While the court concluded” that Butamax “doesn’t hold a
valid patent” and Gevo doesn’t infringe, “the court readily
acknowledges that the  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal
Circuit could disagree,” Robinson wrote in an order today
staying her earlier ruling and asking for an expedited appeal.  She said Gevo “shall not deliver, provide, distribute,
ship, release or transfer in any way” its yeast product until
the Washington court makes its decision.  Brett Lund, Gevo’s general counsel, didn’t immediately
return a voice-mail message seeking comment on the ruling.  “We are pleased with the reinstatement of the temporary
restraining order while we pursue appeal of the June 20
preliminary injunction decision,” Butamax Chief Executive
Officer Paul Beckwith said in an e-mailed statement. “We are
confident in the merits of our appeal.”  Gevo, based in Englewood, Colorado, is involved in several
patent  lawsuits  with Wilmington-based Butamax. Gevo built a
biofuels plant in Luverne,  Minnesota , to produce renewable
additives for refiners that make diesel and jet fuel.  Gevo fell 8 cents, or 1.8 percent, to $4.44 today in Nasdaq
Stock Market trading. DuPont fell 71 cents, or 1.4 percent, to
$48.90 in  trading in  New York .  The case is Butamax Advanced Biofuels LLC v.  Gevo Inc. (GEVO) , 11-
cv-54, U.S. District Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  