-- Global Policy Easing Shows Pressure for Asia Rate Cuts: Economy
-- B y   S h a r o n   C h e n   a n d   J u s t i n a   L e e
-- 2012-07-06T06:03:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/global-policy-easing-shows-pressure-for-asia-rate-cuts-economy.html
Concerted monetary stimulus by
central banks from  China  to Europe has reinforced the pressure
for Asian policy makers to act as faltering global growth
undermines demand for the region’s exports.  South  Korea , due to decide on its benchmark interest rate
next week, has a growing case to cut borrowing costs, according
to Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. and ING Groep NV.  Singapore ,
Malaysia, Australia, Thailand and India all have room to ease
policy, said  Vishnu Varathan , an economist at Mizuho.  The  European Central Bank  and People’s Bank of China cut
their benchmark borrowing costs yesterday while the  Bank of
England  raised the size of its asset-purchase measure, two weeks
after the U.S. Federal Reserve expanded a program lengthening
the maturity of bonds it holds. Asian stocks fell today as the
gathering pace of stimulus moves underscored the weakness in the
world’s biggest economies, raising concern the policy easing
won’t be enough to boost growth.  “What it does is it gives policy makers a lot more reason
to protect their economies from downside risks,” said Singapore-
based Varathan. “It looks like the pressure to ease policy in
Asia will grow because a lot of those shocks will translate
through the trade channel. We’ve already seen some of that
coming through, we’ll probably see more of it.”  The  Bank of Japan ,  Bank of Korea  and  Bank Indonesia  are all
due to release monetary policy decisions on July 12, a day after
Sri Lanka. While five of six economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News expect South Korea to hold rates this month, yesterday’s
rate cuts in China and Europe have strengthened the case for a
quarter-point reduction in Korean borrowing costs next week,
said Prakash Sakpal, an economist at ING in Singapore.  Korea Holds  The Bank of Korea kept its  key rate  unchanged at 3.25
percent for a 12th month in June, noting elevated inflation
expectations and increasing downside risk due to the situation
in Europe. The country may lower borrowing costs in the second
half of the year as its export-dependent economy is vulnerable
to weakening global demand and inflation has eased, said  Stephen Schwartz , chief economist for Asia at Banco Bilbao Vizcaya
Argentaria SA in  Hong Kong .  “The weaker the external environment is, the more likely
other countries may follow suit” after yesterday’s easing, said
Schwartz, who also expects more rate cuts in Australia and India
this year. China’s move is “a reminder of the challenges on the
growth side the region faces,” he said.  Japanese Stimulus  Forecasts for the  Bank of Japan  meeting next week are mixed,
with RBS Securities saying odds are growing for the BOJ to
refrain from adding stimulus while  Mizuho Securities  sees the
possibility of further easing. Governor Masaaki Shirakawa’s
board will also review their outlook for prices and growth for
fiscal 2012 and 2013.  China, the ECB and England announced their stimulus
measures in a span of 45 minutes yesterday. The People’s Bank of
China cut rates for the second time in a month, saying the one-
year lending rate will fall by 31 basis points to 6 percent
effective today, and lenders can offer loans at as much as 30
percent less than the benchmark.  The ECB cut its main rate by 25 basis points to a record
low of 0.75 percent and said it will no longer pay anything on
overnight deposits as Europe’s sovereign-debt turmoil threatens
to drive the 17-nation euro economy into recession. Bank of
England Governor  Mervyn King  and colleagues raised their asset-
purchase target by 50 billion pounds ($78 billion) to 375
billion pounds in a bid to pull the economy from recession.  Stocks Fall  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  slid 0.7 percent at 1:30 p.m.
in Tokyo. Crude oil was down 1.2 percent in New York as of 12:42
p.m. in Singapore. China’s stocks fell for a third day, led by
banks and energy producers, as the rate cut intensified concern
that the economic slowdown is deepening.  Elsewhere in the Asia-Pacific region, Australia’s
construction industry contracted in June, according to a survey
by the Australian Industry Group and the Housing Industry
Association. Japan’s leading index rose to 95.9 in May, a report
showed today.  Spain  will probably say industrial production fell for the
ninth straight month while France’s trade deficit probably
narrowed in May, according to separate Bloomberg surveys.
Germany will announce industrial production numbers for May.  Employers in the U.S. probably increased nonfarm payrolls
by 100,000 workers last month after a 69,000 gain in May,
according to the median forecast of 84 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News ahead of figures due today. The government will
also report the  unemployment rate  for June.  More Aggressive  “It’s clear that the troubles in Europe are a lot more
acute and probably justify more aggressive easing,” said Chua Hak Bin, a Singapore-based economist at Bank of America Corp.
“We are looking for further easing in the second half of the
year from India as well as Korea. We’re also looking for further
reserve requirement cuts for China. Most of the other central
banks in Asia have room to ease but I think will only pull the
trigger in the event of a catastrophe.”  Indonesia may opt for other measures to support growth as a
declining currency prevents Southeast Asia’s largest economy
from cutting rates, said Varathan. The  central bank  may hold its
 benchmark  at 5.75 percent next week, according to all 15
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The  Central Bank of Sri
Lanka  may also keep borrowing costs unchanged, a separate survey
showed, as inflation accelerated to a 14-month high.  Pressure for stimulus in Asia may ease should China’s
efforts to bolster the world’s second-largest economy bear fruit,
said  Frederic Neumann , Hong Kong-based co-head of Asian economic
research at HSBC Holdings Plc.  “We’re still pretty comfortable other central banks will
not necessarily follow China,” he said. “The growth outlook is
more robust in small economies, and  interest rates  are already
low. The more forceful the stimulus is in China, the more
lifting China does, the less smaller economies have to
contribute at the end of the day.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sharon Chen in Singapore at 
 schen462@bloomberg.net ;
Justina Lee in Hong Kong at 
 jlee1245@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  