-- GreenTech to Take First U.S. MyCar Order From Domino’s
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2012-07-06T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/greentech-to-take-first-u-s-mycar-order-from-domino-s.html
GreenTech Automotive Inc., a startup
maker of battery-powered vehicles led by former Democratic
National Committee Chairman  Terry McAuliffe , said  Domino’s Pizza
Inc. (DPZ)  is the first U.S. customer for its low-speed cars.  GreenTech initially expects at least 20 Domino’s franchise
owners to place orders for its MyCar, McAuliffe said in a phone
interview, ahead of today’s opening of its factory in Horn Lake,
Mississippi. The orders would follow an agreement with
 Greenabout A/S , a Danish distributor of electric cars, for
“thousands” of the two-passenger vehicles, McAuliffe said.  “We’ve got to get 10,000 built over the next year,” he
said, declining to detail how much closely held GreenTech raised
to fund the plant and a second factory that opens next year in
Tunica, Mississippi. “If we can get up to 10,000 the first
year, that’s a big deal.”  McAuliffe’s move into the nascent market for rechargeable
cars follows his role as chairman of  Hillary Clinton ’s 2008
presidential bid. He was also a fundraiser for former President
 Bill Clinton , who’s attending the factory opening in Horn Lake.
Unlike startups  Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA)  and Fisker Automotive Inc.,
which got low-interest federal loans for their operations,
GreenTech says it’s only using private funds.  The McLean, Virginia-based carmaker has no debt and didn’t
apply for or receive federal funds, McAuliffe said. The company
received incentives from the state of Mississippi that were
worth at least $10 million, he said.  Neighborhood Vehicle  MyCar, about the size of  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Smart Fortwo
minivehicle, sells for $15,000 to $20,000, and goes as far as
115 miles (185 kilometers) per charge. The car is a
‘neighborhood electric vehicle’ for urban commuters, which means
it can’t be used on highways. It has a top speed set for 25
miles per hour in the U.S. and for 45 mph in Europe.  The vehicle costs half as much as  Nissan Motor Co. (7201) ’s Leaf
hatchback, the top-selling battery car that starts at $35,200,
and is cheaper than  Mitsubishi Motors Corp. (7211) ’s i-MiEV electric
car that, at a $29,975 base price, is currently the cheapest
battery-powered car in the U.S.  Tesla and Fisker, focused on luxury buyers, sell top-of-the
line rechargeable cars costing more than $100,000.  Under the terms of GreenTech’s  order  with Greenabout, the
Danish company will purchase a “sizeable percentage” of
MyCar’s production through 2014, GreenTech said in September,
without giving details.  Along with Clinton, former Mississippi Governor  Haley Barbour  is to attend the opening of the Horn Lake factory plant.
The factory will employ 426 workers, which will take its total
staff to 845. The company plans to employ as many as 1,500
workers by the end of next year, when the Tunica plant opens,
McAuliffe said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in Los Angeles at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  