-- Gross Losing to Himself as ETF Avoids Gridlock
-- B y   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 2012-07-06T15:36:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/gross-losing-to-himself-as-etf-avoids-gridlock.html
Bill Gross  is losing to a smaller,
more nimble version of himself.  The Pacific Investment Management Co. chief’s $263 billion
Pimco Total Return Fund is getting trounced by the firm’s four-
month-old exchange-traded fund that’s more than 100 times
smaller as the biggest money managers struggle to navigate debt
markets without moving prices. While the world’s largest mutual
fund has returned 3.2 percent since March 1, the  Pimco Total
Return ETF (BOND)  that started Feb. 29 with a similar mandate has
gained 6.8 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The $1.8 billion ETF, part of an industry that has more
than doubled its assets under management to more than $1
trillion since 2008, is seizing on investor demand to own bonds
without having to barter them off exchanges. While that has
allowed the ETF to snap up notes with the biggest-potential
returns, the company’s 25-year-old Total Return Fund is stuck
managing thousands of securities as debt-trading volumes become
less predictable and as dealers cut credit holdings by 82
percent.  “It’s very difficult to beat the market when you are the
market,” said Bonnie Baha, head of global developed credit at
Los Angeles-based DoubleLine Capital LP, which oversees $38
billion. “Any choices you make will have an outsized impact
when you’re smaller and more nimble. It stands to reason that
there will be more opportunities that you can take and fly below
the radar.”  ‘Best Opportunities’  Trading in ETFs is rising as investors seek easier and more
flexible access to the  bond market , even as trading volumes in
the underlying securities drop. ETFs typically hold baskets of
securities while their shares trade throughout the day like
stocks, unlike mutual funds that are priced once daily.  Gross created the exchange-traded fund because he “wanted
to bring the Pimco Total Return concept to the ETF space,” he
said in a March 1 Bloomberg Television interview with  Tom Keene .  A 16-fold increase in shares outstanding since March has
enabled the ETF’s managers to “continually adjust the portfolio
to align with our current outlook, and to invest in the best
opportunities presented each day,”  Mark Porterfield , a
spokesman for the  Newport Beach , California-based firm, said in
an e-mailed statement.  Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost of protecting
corporate debt from default in the U.S. rose for a second day,
with the Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses or to speculate on
creditworthiness, adding 3.7 basis points to a mid-price of
112.6 basis points as of 11:29 a.m. in New York, according to
prices compiled by Bloomberg.  Citigroup Bonds  The index typically rises as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves. Credit-default swaps pay
the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
bond market stress, increased 0.18 basis point to 24.8 basis
points as of 11:29 a.m. in New York. The gauge widens when
investors seek the perceived safety of  government securities  and
narrows when they favor assets such as corporate bonds.  Bonds of Citigroup Inc. are the most actively traded
dollar-denominated corporate securities by dealers today, with
28 trades of $1 million or more as of 11:28 a.m. in New York,
according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  ‘Different’ Way  ETFs typically allow individual investors to speculate on
securities without directly owning them. The funds have grown to
include $1.5 trillion of assets from $724 billion in 2008,
according to ETF Global Insight, a London-based research
company. Fixed-income ETFs have attracted $39.1 billion of
investments this year, compared with $15.6 billion during the
same period in 2011, the data show.  The funds generally don’t buy securities directly when they
receive inflows or sell them to meet withdrawal requests.
Instead, an authorized participant receives cash from investors
and uses it to buy securities in exchange for fund shares.  “The way money comes in and out of the two funds is
different,” said Gary Gastineau, managing director at ETF
Consultants. “I would probably hold, purchase or sell things in
a different way and on a different schedule for the two funds.”  Pimco opened its Total Return exchange-traded fund as
tighter capital rules and the Dodd-Frank financial-regulation
overhaul in the U.S. spur the biggest banks to  pare  their
corporate-bond inventories.  BlackRock Fund  Company-debt securities held by the 21 primary dealers that
trade directly with the Fed fell to $43.3 billion as of June 27
from a peak of $235 billion in October 2007.  Investment-grade trading volumes dropped to a daily average
of $11.38 billion in June, the lowest this year, while the
number of shares in the biggest bond ETF exchanging hands rose 4
percent, Trace and Bloomberg data show.  Activity in BlackRock Inc.’s  iShares iBoxx Investment Grade
Corporate Bond Fund , the largest bond ETF, increased to a daily
average of 1.99 million shares in the past 30 days, equal to
about $235.1 million, compared with a daily average 1.9 million
shares for the past six months, Bloomberg data show.  The second-biggest fixed-income ETF, the iShares Barclays
U.S. Treasury Inflation Protected Securities Fund, recorded a 17
percent increase in trading volumes in the past 30 days compared
with the six-month average, according to the  data .  Gross’s Total Return Fund attracted $1.4 billion in June
and $5.9 billion in new cash during the first six months of the
year, reversing last year’s withdrawals of about $5 billion,
according to Morningstar Inc. The ETF brought in $498.4 million
last month, Bloomberg  data  show.  Asset Breakdown  “Once you get to a certain size, your ability to add value
is constrained almost by definition,” Baha said. “If you
believe in the efficient-market theory, the bigger you get the
more difficult it is to add value because your choices are more
limited.”  About 10.6 percent of the  assets  in Pimco’s Total Return
ETF are corporate debt, compared with 19.9 percent for the
firm’s eponymous  mutual fund , Bloomberg data show. The ETF has
29.5 percent of its funds in government debt, versus 20.9
percent for its older counterpart. Almost 23 percent of the
ETF’s assets are in cash and other investments, compared with
14.4 percent for the Total Return Fund.  Unlike Pimco’s Total Return mutual fund, which uses a
combination of options, futures and swap agreements, Gross’s ETF
can’t invest in derivatives since the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission has frozen approval of new ETFs that make
significant use of the instruments. Should the SEC lift the
temporary ban, the Total Return ETF would invest in derivatives,
Pimco said in its filing last year.  Minimum Investment  While the  Pimco Total Return Fund (PTTRX)  has returned 1.24
percentage points more than its benchmark index in the past four
months, the ETF, which trades under the ticker BOND, has
outperformed by 4.7 percentage points, Bloomberg data show.  Investors may evaluate a fund’s performance after a
relatively short time if the company, team, investment process
and philosophy are the same as an existing fund with a live
track record, said Cleo Chang, a managing director at Wilshire
Associates, a  Santa Monica , California-based consulting firm.  “It is not necessarily a critical factor to wait until a
new fund has a year or two of track record as long as there’s a
preexisting static investment strategy,” she said in a
telephone interview. She declined to comment specifically about
Pimco.  The institutional share class of the Total Return mutual
fund, which requires a minimum investment of $1 million outside
of retirement accounts that make it available, has an expense
ratio of 0.46 percent, or $46 a year for each $10,000 invested.
The Total Return ETF will charge fees of 0.55 percent, Pimco
said in a filing with the SEC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Abramowicz in  New York  at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  