-- Barclays Libor Fine Prompts U.K. Criminal Investigation
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2012-07-06T15:49:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/libor-criminal-investigation-opened-by-u-k-fraud-prosecutors.html
The U.K. Serious Fraud Office opened
a criminal probe into the attempted rigging of  interest rates 
that led to a record fine against  Barclays Plc (BARC) , adding to
pressure on banks already under investigation by regulators
around the globe.  SFO Director  David Green  said he had decided to “accept
the Libor matter for investigation” in an e-mailed statement
today. Barclays  fell  as much as 3.8 percent in London trading.  Politicians including Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  and Opposition Labour leader  Ed Miliband  called for a
criminal probe after Britain’s second-biggest bank was fined
$451 million last week in the U.K. and U.S. for submitting false
Libor rates. Chief Executive Officer  Robert Diamond  and Chief
Operating Officer Jerry Del Missier resigned over the scandal.  “It’s very difficult for us to assess the legal risk,”
said Vivek Raja, an analyst at Oriel Securities Ltd. in London.
“It’s just a big investment uncertainty and the potential legal
liabilities around these issues haven’t been quantified.”  Barclays spokesman Giles Croot didn’t immediately respond
to a voicemail seeking comment. The London-based bank’s shares
 fell  2 percent to 164.75 pence as of 4:35 p.m. in London
trading. The stock has dropped 6.4 percent this year.  Other Probes  The SFO joins the  U.S. Department of Justice  in criminally
investigating how derivatives traders and rate submitters
colluded to rig interbank offered rates. The U.K. Financial
Services Authority is seeking civil penalties against banks and
has said its criminal powers don’t include Libor rigging.  As part of the U.S. and U.K. settlements, Barclays admitted
rigging the London interbank offered rate, or Libor, as well as
Euribor, its equivalent in euros, as early as 2005. In testimony
to Parliament this week, Diamond apologized and said 14 Barclays
traders were involved.  Citigroup Inc.,  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc , UBS AG,
ICAP Plc, Lloyds Banking Group Plc and Deutsche Bank AG are
among the firms regulators are investigating. About 18 banks are
surveyed as part of the process of determining Libor rates.  Osborne told lawmakers last week that the FSA was in touch
with the SFO about a criminal investigation. Prior to that,
 Richard Alderman , who stepped down as director of the SFO over
two months ago, had said the agency wasn’t involved in the
inquiry. People familiar with the FSA probe said last month that
suspects were told to expect civil penalties.  SFO Probes  The SFO was criticized under Alderman for taking on high-
profile investigations, including American International Group
Inc.’s Financial Products unit and convicted swindler  Bernard
Madoff ’s London operations, only to close them later citing a
lack of evidence. The agency has also faced a shrinking budget,
a fight with the  Home Office  to save the SFO from dissolution,
and a staff exodus prior to Green’s arrival.  The SFO is “very brave” to investigate Libor, said
Richard East, a lawyer at Quinn Emanuel Urquhart & Sullivan LLP
in  London . “It’ll cost them a huge amount of money. They’ll
obviously score direct hits with the particular traders, but
will they catch the big fish? I don’t think so.”  Osborne said last week the number of people under formal
investigation by the FSA is “expected to increase.”  Libor, Euribor  Libor and Euribor are calculated by a survey of banks’
daily estimates of how much it would cost them to borrow from
one another for different time frames and in different
currencies. Because submissions aren’t based on real trades, the
potential exists for the benchmark to be manipulated by traders
seeking to profit on where the rate is set. Barclays’s
executives also were downplaying their borrowing costs by making
low submissions to avoid the perception they were struggling to
raise funding, according to regulators.  Barclays is assisting the investigation into other firms
and individuals and was the first to provide “extensive and
meaningful cooperation,” the U.S. Justice Department said.  FSA Chairman  Adair Turner  said this week that its probes
will result in more settlements “before the end of the year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  