-- Libor Needs Transparency, Pimco’s Crescenzi Says: Tom Keene
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-07-06T15:38:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/libor-needs-more-transparency-pimco-s-crescenzi-says-tom-keene.html
While liquidity from central banks
and investigations by regulators may be preventing manipulation
of the London interbank offered rate, the market would benefit
from more transparency, according to Pacific Investment
Management Co.’s  Tony Crescenzi .  Barclays Plc, the U.K.’s second-largest bank by assets, was
fined a record 290 million pounds ($450 million) on June 27 for
rigging Libor, a global benchmark, for profit. Chairman Marcus
Agius, Chief Executive Officer  Robert Diamond  and Chief
Operating Officer Jerry Del Missier subsequently resigned.  “More transparency obviously would be better to see in
fact where banks are offering money,” Crescenzi, a strategist
at Newport Beach, California-based Pimco, which oversees the
world’s largest bond fund, said in a radio interview on
“Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Ken Prewitt. “It
may be that there was a time when the rate could be affected,
but today it’s less likely especially with the scrutiny.”  Central banks from the  Federal Reserve  to the Bank of China
have flooded their markets with cash to support economic growth,
which would likely undermine attempts to manipulate Libor rates,
Crescenzi said.  “No one is bigger than the market,” he said. “The
enormity of liquidity operations of the Federal Reserve,
 European Central Bank , Bank of England,  Bank of Japan (8301) , the Bank
of China have gotten so great that any attempt to manipulate an
 interest rate  has got to be futile.”  Jobs Data  In the U.S., payrolls rose 80,000 last month after a 77,000
increase in May, Labor Department figures showed today in
Washington. Economists projected a 100,000 gain, according to
the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey. The  unemployment
rate  held at 8.2 percent.  The Treasury 10-year yield dropped five basis points, or
0.05 percentage point, to 1.54 percent at 11:34 a.m. in New
York, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 1.75
percent security due in May 2022 rose 15/32, or $4.69 per $1,000
face value, to 101 7/8.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has indicated that more
easing, potentially through buying government securities, is an
option. The central bank bought $2.3 trillion of bonds in two
rounds of so-called quantitative easing, or QE1 and QE2, from
2008 through 2011 to stimulate economic growth and drive down
unemployment.  “The unemployment number shows listlessness in the  U.S.
economy  still,” Crescenzi said. “It’s clearly growing too
slowly to keep the unemployment rate from rising and with
continued figures like this, one would expect the Federal
Reserve to continue to be what it’s been, which is activist and
adopt a QE3.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Keene in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  