-- Liikanen Says ECB Doesn’t Have Target for Overnight Deposits
-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 2012-07-06T13:28:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/liikanen-says-ecb-doesn-t-have-target-for-overnight-deposits.html
European Central Bank Governing
Council member Erkki Liikanen said policy makers aren’t
targeting a specific level of overnight deposits with
yesterday’s rate cut.  “There is no quantitative target,” Liikanen said in an
interview in his hometown of Mikkeli in central Finland today,
when asked about the impact of cutting the deposit rate to zero.
“It was a symmetrical decision that we went down with all
policy rates and that was a consistent policy decision with
standard monetary policy.”  The ECB reduced all its  interest rates  by 25 basis points,
taking the  benchmark  to a record low of 0.75 percent and the
marginal lending rate to 1.5 percent. The zero deposit rate
means banks will no longer be paid interest when they park
excess cash with the ECB overnight. They currently deposit about
800 billion euros ($989 billion) with the ECB each day.  Asked if the reduction in the deposit rate will cause the
amount of liquidity in the facility to decrease, Liikanen said:
“we will see. It’s for the banks to decide.”  The ECB’s new rates take effect on July 11.  With  Europe ’s debt crisis curbing lending and undermining
confidence among investors and executives, the ECB was under
pressure to ease monetary policy further. The central bank has
already injected more than 1 trillion euros into the banking
system to prevent a credit crunch.  Some of the risks to the euro area’s economic outlook
identified by the Frankfurt-based ECB in previous months “have
materialized,” said Liikanen, who heads  Finland ’s central bank.  “2012 will be subdued, it will be weaker than expected a
year ago,” he said. “Beyond that depends on how the world
economy develops, because exports have been one of the factors
in the forecast that could lead to growth. This year will be
weak in the economy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Mikkeli at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  