-- India Rupee Drops Most in 2 Weeks as Europe Stimulus Disappoints
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2012-07-06T04:34:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/india-rupee-drops-most-in-2-weeks-as-europe-stimulus-disappoints.html
India ’s rupee fell the most in two
weeks on speculation stimulus measures announced by European
policy makers will be insufficient to revive global economic
growth.  The currency pared this week’s gain after European Central
Bank President  Mario Draghi  deflected questions yesterday about
further steps such as quantitative easing, after reducing the
benchmark rate to a record low 0.75 percent and the deposit rate
to zero. India sold 402.5 billion rupees ($7.3 billion) of
allocations for purchasing rupee-denominated debt to foreign
investors on July 4, falling short of the 599 billion rupee
target, two people familiar with the matter said.  Speculation that investors would use additional euros to
pump money into emerging-market assets “was dashed when the ECB
refrained from discussing unconventional stimulus measures,”
said  Jonathan Cavenagh , a strategist at Westpac Banking Corp. in
Singapore. “India has its own fundamental issues to deal with,
and so until the nation’s policy makers resolve some of the
structural problems, the currency will be vulnerable.”  The rupee declined 0.9 percent to 55.4787 per dollar as of
9:43 a.m. in Mumbai, the biggest drop since June 22, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. That pared its weekly advance to
0.3 percent. The currency will probably weaken to 57 in the
“coming weeks” and will trade between that level and 54
through this quarter, Cavenagh forecast.  China Rate Cut  One-month implied volatility, a measure of exchange-rate
swings used to price options, rose 30 basis points, or 0.30
percentage point, to 12.20 percent today. It is up 55 basis
points this week.  The People’s Bank of  China  yesterday cut its benchmark
lending rate, while the  Bank of England  raised the size of its
asset-purchase program. Two weeks ago, the  Federal Reserve 
expanded a program lengthening the maturity of bonds it holds
and Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  indicated more measures will be
taken if needed.  Three-month onshore currency forwards traded at 56.47 per
dollar, compared with 56.12 yesterday, and offshore non-
deliverable contracts were at 56.48 from 56.07. Forwards are
agreements to buy or sell assets at a set price and date. Non-
deliverable contracts are settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  