-- India’s Nifty Futures Swing Between Gains, Losses on Cut
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2012-07-06T10:19:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/india-s-nifty-futures-swing-between-gains-losses-on-cut.html
Most Indian stocks declined, paring
the weekly advance, after interest-rate reductions in Europe and
China failed to assure investors the moves will be enough to
boost economic growth.  Infosys Ltd. (INFO) , India’s second-largest software exporter that
gets 98 percent of its sales from abroad, paced declines among
its peers.  Jindal Steel & Power Ltd. (JSP)  slumped the most in a month
after the Wall Street Journal reported the steelmaker halted
work at its Bolivia iron-ore mine. The BSE India  Sensitive Index (SENSEX) 
lost 0.1 percent to 17,521.12, according to preliminary closing
prices.  The European Central Bank yesterday cut its benchmark rate
to a record low and the People’s Bank of China pared borrowing
costs for a second time in a month. ECB President  Mario Draghi 
said the reductions may have only a “muted” effect, and the
 International Monetary Fund  will lower its growth estimate for
the global economy, Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  said.  “Investors want to see how the EU situation stabilizes and
how rate cuts in China translate into growth,” K.K. Mital, a
fund manager at Globe Capital Market Ltd., said by phone from
New Delhi. “They are cautious.”  Indian stocks also declined after the rupee weakened for a
third day as the most-accurate forecaster for the currency said
it will extend the past year’s declines as the country fails to
meet targets for attracting global funds.  The rupee, which fell to a record 57.3275 a dollar on June
22, lost 1 percent to 55.5275 at 12:40 p.m., paring the weekly
gain to 0.2 percent. Asia’s worst-performing currency in the
past 12 months will drop 6.1 percent in three months to 58.5,
according to Credit Suisse Group AG, which had the closest
estimates in the last six quarters as measured by Bloomberg
Rankings.  Overseas  funds  bought a net $55 million of Indian stocks on
June 4, raising their investment this year to $9.4 billion,
according to the nation’s market regulator. That’s a record for
the period, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  