-- Informatica Slumps After Quarterly Sales Miss Estimates
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h a y k o w s k i
-- 2012-07-06T21:00:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/informatica-slumps-after-quarterly-sales-miss-estimates.html
Informatica Corp. (INFA)  slumped the most in
11 years after the provider of data-integration software said
weak demand in  Europe  caused an unexpected  drop  in quarterly
sales and profit, sending down other software stocks.  The shares fell 28 percent to $31.39 at the close in New
York, for the biggest daily decline since July 2001. The  Redwood
City , California-based company had risen 17 percent this year
through yesterday.  Informatica released preliminary second-quarter results
yesterday that trailed its own expectations, saying it didn’t
adapt as rapidly as it should have to a downturn in demand,
especially in Europe. Corporate customers reducing or deferring
orders may also lead other software providers including  Teradata (TDC) 
Corp.,  Citrix Systems Inc. (CTXS)  and  VMware Inc. (VMW)  to reduce forecasts
or miss earnings estimates, said Daud Khan, an analyst at
Berenberg Bank.  “Companies are being far more cautious about spending,”
Khan said in a telephone interview today. “Contracts have to be
signed off by more people, which makes it difficult to get
software deals done.”  Teradata, based in Dayton,  Ohio , fell 10 percent to $65.01
at the close.  MicroStrategy Inc. (MSTR)  decreased 11 percent to
$119.57, while  QLIK Technologies Inc. (QLIK)  fell a record 12 percent,
to $17.97. QLIK has fallen 26 percent this year.  Citrix slid 7.6 percent to $77.45 and VMware fell 6.9
percent.  Software Slump  In Europe,  Software AG (SOW)  and  SAP AG (SAP)  also slumped. Software
companies will probably lower full-year forecasts amid negative
macro-economic data, Khan said in a research report.  Industry-wide trends were responsible for less than half of
Informatica’s earnings miss, said Karl Keirstead, an analyst at
BMO Capital Markets, in a research report.  “It would be a mistake to make a linear extrapolation to
other software names,” said Keirstead, who rates the shares
market perform.  Sales fell to about $188 million to $190 million in the
period ended June 30, and earnings before certain items dropped
to 27 cents to 28 cents a share, Informatica said in a statement
yesterday after the markets closed. Analysts anticipated $217.4
million in revenue and 36 cents in earnings-per-share, according
to predictions compiled by Bloomberg.  Informatica will report complete second-quarter results on
July 26. In the second-quarter last year, the company posted
revenue of $192.7 million on earnings-per-share of 33 cents,
excluding items such as costs and tax benefits related to the
amortization of acquired technology and intangible assets and
stock compensation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Chaykowski in  New York  at 
 kchaykowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  