-- Intel’s $1.3 Billion Rebate Fine Based on EU ‘Experiment’
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2012-07-06T14:57:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/intel-s-1-3-billion-rebate-fine-based-on-eu-experiment-.html
Intel Corp. (INTC)  was used as a guinea pig
by regulators who imposed a 1.06 billion-euro ($1.3 billion)
fine for using rebates to block rivals based on an unproven
case, company lawyers told a European Union appeals court.  The European Commission’s 2009 decision to levy the
biggest-ever antitrust fine against a single company was based
on mistakes and ignored evidence, Intel lawyers have told the EU
General Court in Luxembourg over four days of hearings.  “The commission used Intel as its laboratory experiment”
to try out an economic analysis that served as the foundation
for an erroneous decision, Nicholas Green, a lawyer for Intel,
told the EU’s second-highest court on the final day of hearings.
“It’s as easy to find legal certainty in this case as it is for
scientists to discover the Higgs boson.”  The EU probe concluded Intel impeded competition to cut
 Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD)  out of the market by giving computer
makers rebates from 2002 until 2005 on the condition that they
buy at least 95 percent of their chips for personal computers
from the  Santa Clara , California-based company. Intel imposed
“restrictive conditions” for the remaining 5 percent, supplied
by AMD, which struggled to overcome Intel’s hold on the PC
processor market, the EU said. The infringement continued until
at least December 2007, the EU said.  The EU began investigating after AMD complained in 2000.
Intel agreed to pay AMD $1.25 billion in 2009 to end all civil
litigation. Sunnyvale, California-based AMD is no longer
involved in the case and didn’t participate this week.  Intel ‘Well-Aware’  The Brussels-based regulator rejected that there was no
intentional infringement, saying Intel “was well-aware” its
actions were anti-competitive, lawyer Vittorio Di Bucci said.  The antitrust fine was the EU’s biggest, more than double
the 497 million-euro penalty against Microsoft Corp. in 2004. It
represented about 4 percent of Intel’s $37.6 billion in sales in
2008, below the maximum of 10 percent of annual sales.  The fine was “relatively low compared with the size of the
company and of the market concerned,” Di Bucci told the five-
judge panel. The commission set the amount after a “series of
prudent choices” that were all in Intel’s favor.  Industry group  Association for Competitive Technology ,
which counts Microsoft Corp. among its members and supported
Intel’s appeal, warned about “the increasing level of fines”
in the information technology sector.  “Crossing the symbolic line of 1 billion euros may have
played a role in the determination of this particular fine,”
ACT lawyer Jean-Francois Bellis said.  The commission “has absolutely nothing against IT
companies,” Di Bucci said. “It just turns out that some of
these companies are very large indeed and when they commit
abuses they may attract very large fines.”  Any decision by the EU General Court can be appealed to the
 EU Court of Justice  in Luxembourg.  The case is T-286/09 Intel Corp. v. Commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in  Luxembourg  at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  