-- Turkey Bond Yields in Longest Falling Streak in 3 Years on Rates
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2012-07-06T15:18:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/lira-falls-third-day-to-lowest-in-a-week-yields-rise-correct-.html
Turkey  bond  yields  fell for a ninth
day, the longest losing streak in almost three years, and the
lira weakened as the central bank extended its policy of cheaper
funding, lowering borrowing costs.  The  two-year benchmark debt  yields slid four basis points
to 8.02 percent at the 5 p.m. close in Istanbul, the biggest
stretch of declines since the 10-day rout ended July 30, 2009.
The lira depreciated for a third day, down 0.5 percent to
1.8179, the weakest on a closing basis since June 28.  The central bank lent 4 billion liras ($2.19 billion) today
at its minimum 5.75 percent policy rate for a 24th consecutive
day. The average funding cost for lenders retreated to 8.42
percent yesterday, the least since May 3. One-year interest rate
swaps dropped today to the lowest level since Oct. 20, the fifth
day of declines as traders bet on monetary easing after the
Turkish economy shrunk 0.4 percent in the first quarter and
inflation dropped to 8.9 percent in June from 11.1 percent in
April.  “It is highly probable that the central bank will give
dovish signals for the coming period even if it does not change
its policy in the Monetary Policy Committee meeting on July
19,” Bora Tamer Yilmaz, a vice president at Halk Securities in
Istanbul, said in an e-mailed note today.  The central bank will reduce its 6.5 percent inflation
forecast “slightly” as it seeks to cut two-year inflation
expectations toward the bank’s 5 percent target for this year,
Central bank governor Erdem Basci said. Basci, who expects a
gradual decline in  core inflation , said loan growth may fall to
14 percent this year, the lowest since 2009.  Growth Estimates  The  International Monetary Fund  will reduce its estimate
for global growth this year on weakness in investment, jobs and
manufacturing in  Europe , the U.S.,  Brazil ,  India  and China,
Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  said in a speech in  Tokyo 
today.  Turkey’s first-quarter contraction in gross domestic
product erased a 0.4 percent expansion in the previous quarter,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The retreat in the
January-to-March period was the first since the first three
months of 2009 that capped four quarterly declines in the first
recession since 2001.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  