-- Iranian Exile Group Must Quit Camp in Iraq, U.S. Says
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2012-07-06T21:54:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/iranian-exile-group-must-quit-camp-in-iraq-u-s-says.html
The U.S. State Department will decide
whether to remove the Mujahedin-e Khalq Organization from a list
of terrorist groups based in large part on whether the Iranian
dissident group agrees to vacate a camp in Iraq, an official
said.  Movement out of Camp Ashraf in Iraq to a temporary transit
point “will be a key factor” in Secretary of State Hillary Clinton’s decision on the future status of the group known as
the MEK, Daniel Benjamin, the State Department’s coordinator for
counterterrorism, told reporters on a conference call yesterday.  Clinton was ordered by a  U.S. Court of Appeals  last month
to decide by Oct. 1 if the Iranian group should remain on the
State Department list of foreign terrorist organizations. The
MEK was implicated in the assassination of seven U.S. citizens
in the 1970s and other acts of violence.  The group’s camp about 35 miles (57 kilometers) north of
 Baghdad  is home to Iranian exiles who advocate the overthrow of
the Islamic regime in Tehran. The Iraqi government has said the
camp must be vacated by July 20.  The group’s “relocation will assist the secretary in
determining whether the organization remains invested in its
violent past or is committed to leaving that past behind,”
Benjamin said.  The MEK found a home in Iraq at the invitation of the
country’s former dictator  Saddam Hussein , who supplied the group
with weapons during the eight-year  Iran-Iraq war , the  Washington 
Post reported July 5.  The MEK has enlisted former top U.S. officials to lobby
President  Barack Obama ’s administration to lift the U.S. ban on
the group and has paid a number of them travel and speaking
fees, the Post reported. The group also has pursued an
advertising campaign in Washington calling for its removal from
the terrorist list.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  