-- Italian Bonds Fall From Grace on Contagion Concern: Euro Credit
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2012-07-06T07:02:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/italian-bonds-fall-from-grace-on-contagion-concern-euro-credit.html
Italian bonds turned a first-quarter
rally into the third-worst performance in  Europe  as concern
mounted that government leaders won’t prevent the debt crisis
from spreading to the region’s biggest fixed-income market.  Italy’s debt had the second-best returns after  Portugal  of
the 17 euro-area nations in the three months through March and
then handed investors a loss of 2.2 percent in the past quarter.
Italian bonds fell for a third day with the 10-year yield rising
9 basis points to 6.07 percent after European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  said yesterday a cut in  interest rates  to
a record low may offer little help as the euro-area economy
slides toward recession.  The government led by Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti 
approved 4.5 billion euros ($5.6 billion) of spending cuts for
this year and 26 billion over three years as part of a broader
plan announced early today to trim the size of the public
administration and stave off further tax increases. The rise in
yields has hampered efforts to lower the nation’s 1.9 trillion
euros of debt.  “The political fraternity has done nothing to get Italy
onto a path where its potential growth rates in the future would
make one confident that it could gradually start eating away at
that debt mountain,” said  Marc Ostwald , a fixed-income
strategist at Monument Securities Ltd. in  London .  Italian bond yields fell after the ECB said in December
that it would offer unlimited three-year loans to euro-area
financial institutions. The 10-year rate was as low as 4.68
percent on March 9, down 280 basis points from the Nov. 9 euro-
era record of 7.48 percent.  Spanish Banks  Even as the ECB helped boost Italian bond returns in the
first quarter, the country’s  budget deficit  increased. Italian
yields climbed in the second quarter as  Spain  was forced to
request as much as 100 billion euros ($125 billion) to help
recapitalize its banks.  Yields on both nations’ 10-year debt then slid in the days
following the June 28-29 summit of European leaders in Brussels,
which paved the way for debt relief for Spanish banks. Spain’s
benchmark rate was at 6.9 percent at 9 a.m. in  Madrid , down from
7.01 percent on June 28.  The ECB sought to maintain the stimulus momentum yesterday
when policy makers cut the region’s key interest rate to an all-
time low of 0.75 percent from 1 percent.  “We still expect a gradual, slow recovery around the end
of the year,” Draghi said at a press conference in  Frankfurt ,
adding that the interest cuts will reduce the cost of central
bank loans for struggling  banks . “The baseline scenario hasn’t
changed, although the downside risks are now materializing.”  Yield Gap  The extra yield investors demanded to hold  Italy ’s 10-year
debt over similar-maturity German bunds surged to as much as 490
basis points, or 4.9 percentage points, in June, up about 200
basis points from their March low. It was at 469 basis points
today.  “There is a possibility we could see a 5 percent spread
versus 10-year government bonds by the end of the summer,” said
Yannick Naud, a London-based portfolio manager at Glendevon King
Ltd., who helps oversee $163 million in assets.  Italy’s high level of government debt and low growth make
it more vulnerable to Europe’s financial crisis than other euro
members, the European Commission said May 30. The Mediterranean
nation is mired in its fourth recession since 2001. It also will
post the second-highest debt, according to commission forecasts.  Italy has pledged to reduce its budget deficit to 1.7
percent of gross domestic product this year and trim it to 0.5
percent in 2013. The country had the third-worst performing bond
market after Greece and Spain in the three months through June
as Monti’s administration was forced to push back deficit-
reduction targets.  European Whirlwind  “There was a looming feeling that Italy was going to get
caught up in the whirlwind of stress that affected so many other
of the weaker economies in the euro zone and that’s what has
been undermining Italian debt over recent weeks,” said  John Wraith , a fixed-income strategist at Bank of America Merrill
Lynch in London. “Their macro data has taken a turn for the
worse. There are persistent stories that Italian voters are
starting to lose patience with a technocratic government.”  Monti’s popularity with investors was damaged after he
passed watered-down labor-market legislation on June 27. He was
forced to temper proposals to revive Italy’s  economy  by making
it easier for distressed companies to fire workers after Italy’s
biggest union called a general strike and a key political ally
vowed to oppose the bill.  Concern that Monti will be unable to cut spending and boost
the competitiveness of Italy has driven borrowing costs at
auctions back to 2011 levels. The euro-region’s third-largest
economy paid the most to sell 10-year debt since December on
June 28.  “It’s self-fulfilling,” Glendevon’s Naud said. “Every
day you have to pay high interest to refinance your existing
debt. Slowly that should put pressure on Italian  government
bonds .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 