-- JPMorgan, Goldman Shut Europe Money Funds After ECB Cut
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i   a n d   C h a r l e s   S t e i n
-- 2012-07-06T17:38:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/jpmorgan-shuts-europe-money-market-funds-on-ecb-rate-cut.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. and  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  closed European  money market funds 
to new investments after the  European Central Bank  lowered
deposit rates to zero.  JPMorgan, the world’s biggest provider of money-market
funds, won’t accept new cash in five euro-denominated money-
market and liquidity funds because the rate cut may result in
losses for investors, the company said in a  notice  to
shareholders. Goldman Sachs won’t accept new money in its GS
Euro Government Liquid Reserves Fund, and BlackRock, the world’s
largest asset manager, is restricting deposits in two European
funds.  “The European market environment is in unchartered
territory with such historically low -- or even negative --
yields for high-quality issuance,”  Goldman Sachs (GS)  said in a memo
to fund shareholders, citing the ECB’s rate cut. “It is not
currently feasible for our portfolio managers to deploy capital
without substantially diluting the yield for the existing base
of shareholders.”  The ECB yesterday reduced its benchmark rate to a record
low of 0.75 percent and took its deposit rate to zero. Money
funds have been struggling to invest client assets at a profit
as  interest rates  globally are near record lows and Europe’s
sovereign debt crisis has reduced the supply of available debt.
Managers have been forced to cut fees to keep customer returns
above zero, and some have abandoned the business.  All three firms said the restrictions are temporary and
they will monitor market conditions. Investor redemptions from
the funds are not being limited.  ‘Negative Territory’  JPMorgan’s five closed funds had 23.7 billion euros ($29.2
billion) in assets as of July 5, the bank said in an e-mail,
about 22 percent of all euro-denominated money funds. The funds
are JPMorgan’s  Euro Liquidity Fund (JPMEULC) , Euro Government Liquidity
Fund, Euro Money Market Fund, Euro Liquid Market Fund and
JPMorgan Series II Funds -- EUR.  The deposit rate cut “will almost certainly move cash bids
in short-dated instruments into negative territory, and so we
have taken the step to restrict subscriptions and switches into
the funds in order to protect existing shareholders from yield
dilution,” JPMorgan said on its website.  The company had $417 billion in money fund assets as of May
31, making it the world leader, according to Crane Data LLC, a
research firm based in Westborough,  Massachusetts . The entire
euro-denominated money fund industry has about 108 billion
euros, Crane Data’s statistics show.  BlackRock’s Funds  No other global liquidity funds are at risk of being
closed, “but we will not hesitate to restrict investments if we
feel the market environment warrants such action in order to
protect the interests of existing shareholders,” JPMorgan said
on its website.  BlackRock is restricting subscriptions into two funds in
its Institutional Cash Series, the Institutional Euro Liquidity
Fund and the Institutional Euro Government Liquidity Fund,
Jessica Greaney, a spokeswoman for the firm, said in an e-mail.  “We’re continuing to monitor the situation and evaluate
options that are consistent with the best interest of fund
shareholders,” Greaney said.  $2.5 Trillion  Vanguard Group Inc., the world’s largest mutual-fund firm,
closed two money funds in 2009 and the funds have remained
closed, spokesman  John Woerth  said in an e-mail. The two funds,
Vanguard Admiral Treasury Money Market Fund and the Vanguard
Federal Money Market Fund, have about $18 billion in assets,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The  Valley Forge , Pennsylvania-based firm said at the time
of the closing that the action was taken to protect existing
shareholders. Vanguard has $1.8 trillion in U.S. mutual fund
assets.  Fidelity Investments , based in Boston, restricted
investments in four of its money market funds in December 2008.
The funds were reopened in July 2010, spokesman  Adam Banker  said
in an e-mail.  “We took those measures because we believed they were in
the interests of the funds’ shareholders at the time,” Banker
wrote. Boston-based Fidelity had $403 billion in money fund
assets of May 31, according to Crane Data.  The $2.5 trillion U.S. money fund industry has been
wrestling with the impact of low interest rates since the
Federal Reserve  cut rates  to near zero in December 2008.  Industrywide revenue fell from about $12.5 billion in 2008
to $4.7 billion in 2012, according to Crane Data. Yields that
reached 5 percent in 2007 today average about 0.06 percent,
President  Peter Crane , said in a telephone interview.  “Investors have lost hundreds of billions of dollars of
interest income,” Crane said. While industry profits have been
squeezed, very few major players have left the business, Crane
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in  New York  at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net ;
 Charles Stein  in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  