-- June U.S. Payroll Gain Probably Capped Worst Quarter Since 2010
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-07-06T04:01:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/june-u-s-payroll-gain-probably-capped-worst-quarter-since-2010.html
June’s payroll count probably rounded
out the weakest quarter for U.S. employment in more than two
years, economists said before a government report today.  Employers increased staffing by 100,000 workers last month
after adding 69,000 in May, the least in a year, according to
the median forecast of 84 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.
Company headcounts excluding government agencies may have
climbed by 106,000, concluding the smallest quarterly advance
since the first three months of 2010.  The estimates, albeit improvements from May, offer further
evidence that hiring has shifted into a lower gear, restricting
consumers’ ability to boost spending. The report may also show
the jobless rate held at 8.2 percent last month, underscoring
concern by some Federal Reserve policy makers that the economy
isn’t growing enough to reduce unemployment.  “The labor market is struggling but healing,” said  Bill Cheney , chief economist at John Hancock Financial Services Inc.
in  Boston . “Until we start getting  job creation  reliably in the
250,000 range, I will still feel like the labor market is
fragile.”  The Labor Department will release the employment report at
8:30 a.m. in Washington. Forecasts for total payroll growth
ranged from increases of 35,000 to 165,000.  Estimates for the  unemployment rate , derived from a
separate Labor Department survey of households, ranged from 8.1
percent to 8.3 percent. Joblessness has exceeded 8 percent since
February 2009, the longest stretch in monthly records dating to
1948.  Modest Incomes  “What we are seeing today from an income perspective is
our economy is modestly adding jobs,”  Robert Hull , chief
financial officer at Lowe’s Cos., the second-largest U.S. home-
improvement retailer, said at a June 26 consumer conference in
Boston. “That’s the good news. The bad news is it’s not
sufficient to have a material impact on the unemployment rate.”  The economic and jobs outlook will probably play a major
role in President  Barack Obama ’s bid for re-election. Obama
ascribed labor market weakness in May primarily to an inadequate
response by European governments to the continent’s debt crisis,
saying “our biggest challenge is not here in the U.S. but the
economy overseas.” Republican candidate  Mitt Romney  said Obama
“is always quick to find someone to blame” for the weak
economy.  The slowdown in both economic and employment growth
prompted the Fed to take additional steps to stimulate the
expansion last month. Officials said on June 20 they would buy
securities to extend the maturities of assets on the bank’s
balance sheet, thereby holding down longer-term  interest rates .  Fed Forecasts  The central bankers also lifted forecasts for joblessness,
saying they anticipate the  unemployment rate  will average 8
percent to 8.2 percent in the fourth quarter of this year versus
an April estimate of 7.8 percent to 8 percent.  “After a brighter start to the year, economic momentum has
slowed in the last few months,” Federal Reserve Bank of  New
York  President William C. Dudley said during a June 29 speech.  Repeating language the policy makers used when announcing
the new measures, Dudley said the Fed is “prepared to take
further action as appropriate to promote a stronger economic
recovery and sustained improvement in labor market conditions.”
The crisis in  Europe  and uncertainty over U.S. fiscal policy
remain potential hurdles for business investment, he said.  Investors last month took heart that some progress was
being made across the Atlantic. Stocks surged on June 29,
capping the biggest June gain since 1999, after European leaders
reached an agreement that alleviated concern banks will fail.
The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  climbed 4 percent last month.  At the same time, uncertainty about the government’s fiscal
outlook may still be hampering hiring plans. Congress has yet to
resolve the so-called fiscal cliff, which represents more than
$600 billion in higher taxes and reductions in defense spending
and other government programs in 2013 that will take place
without action.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in  Washington  at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  