-- Junk Bonds Attractive for Investors, BNP’s Fridson Says
-- B y   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2012-07-06T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/junk-bonds-attractive-for-investors-bnp-s-fridson-says.html
Speculative-grade debt offers an
attractive buying opportunity for investors as relative yields
on the securities are elevated, according to  Martin Fridson ,
global credit strategist at BNP Paribas Investment Partners.  The extra yield that investors demand to hold high-yield,
high-risk bonds compared with Treasuries was 108 basis points
wider than their fair value of 532 basis points as of July 5,
according to the Fridson-Kong model. The divergence often
accompanies an increase in the VIX Index, a measure of stock-
market volatility, Fridson’s models show. The deviation from the
fair value has remained even as the VIX recorded its biggest
monthly decline this year in June.  “If high-yield bonds are below fair value because of
general upheaval it doesn’t look like a great bargain,” Fridson
said in a telephone interview. “But here, not only are they
cheap relative to fair value, we are also not seeing a lot of
volatility in equity markets.”  The  VIX Index (VIX) , also seen as a measure of unease in
financial markets, has declined from a 2012 high of 26.7 on June
1 to 17.5 on July 5, about the lowest level in two months.
Relative yields on junk-rated bonds are 48 basis points wider
than the 592 basis points reached on May 3.  Junk bonds  are rated
below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and less than BBB- by
 Standard & Poor’s .  Value Gap  In the first half of 2011 the spread on high-yield bonds
was 11 basis points wider than fair value when the VIX averaged
17 on a monthly basis. Later in the year, when euro-zone turmoil
flared and S&P downgraded the U.S. credit rating, the gap in
actual spread and fair value climbed to an average of 260 basis
points, as the VIX monthly average rose to 30 for the second
half of 2011, Fridson’s research shows.  In May, speculative-grade bonds were undervalued and the
VIX surged as concern that the  European debt crisis  would infect
the global economy mounted. The VIX has since retreated below
its monthly average of 18 in the first four months of 2012 as
European leaders took steps to stem the crisis. The divergence
of high-yield spreads from their fair value has not recorded a
similar decline.  “One possible interpretation is that the equity market has
overreacted to the positive developments in  Europe  and that high
yield has shown greater skepticism,” Fridson said. “But junk
bonds are fundamentally cheap, and if you have a longer-term
horizon there is possibility to make good money.”  ‘Fundamentally Cheap’  The Fridson-Kong model, named after Martin Fridson and BNP
Paribas analyst Vince Kong, takes into account data on
industrial production, capacity utilization, the default rate,
credit availability and the 5-year Treasury yield to determine
the right value of junk debt.  Speculative grade bonds in the U.S. have returned 7.6
percent this year, according to the Bank of America Merrill
Lynch U.S. High Yield Master II index, compared with a 5.5
percent return on investment-grade debt. The  Standard & Poor’s
500  has returned  10 percent  with gross dividends reinvested into
the index.  “To justify their current valuation, there has to be
something going on that directly affects the high-yield market
and not any other asset class,” Fridson said. “There is
nothing going on in this space that can explain this.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sridhar Natarajan in  New York  at 
 Snatarajan155@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  