-- Kidd Agrees to Join Knicks; Rockets’ Offer to Lin Seen Matched
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-07-06T12:26:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/kidd-agrees-to-join-knicks-may-not-get-to-be-jeremy-lin-backup.html
Guard  Jason Kidd , who is No. 1 in
assists among active National Basketball Association players,
agreed to join the  New York  Knicks, who will also match the
Houston Rockets’ offer to Jeremy Lin.  Lin, who rose to prominence when he left the bench to take
over the Knicks’ offense this year, has reached an agreement
with Houston, which let him go from their crowded roster last
season, according to the  Associated Press . The New York Post
reported today on its  website  that the Knicks will match the
offer, which is their right under NBA rules.  The Rockets last season gave up Lin to keep Goran Dragic,
who has reached a deal to return to the  Phoenix Suns  after they
sent point guard  Steve Nash  to the  Los Angeles Lakers . The
Brooklyn Nets are still building with the addition of Mirza
Teletovic, who made 43.1 percent of his three-point shots and
averaged 21.7 points a game last season for Spanish team Caja
Laboral.  None of the players can sign contracts, nor can team
management officially comment on any deals until July 11.  Lin was offered a deal worth $10.2 million over the first
two years and $9.3 million in the third year, AP reported last
night, citing an unidentified person with knowledge of the deal.
A team option on a fourth year is also worth $9.3 million, the
report said.  The Knicks, who have said they would to keep Lin, have
three days after July 11 to offer him a new contact. The Harvard
graduate averaged 14.6 points and 6.2 assists in 35 games,
including 25 starts, before his season ended because of surgery
to repair torn knee cartilage.  No Comment  Knicks spokesman  Jonathan Supranowitz  declined to comment
in an e-mail. Rockets spokesman Nelson Luis didn’t respond to an
e-mail seeking comment.  Kidd, 39, who has been with the 2011 NBA champion Dallas
Mavericks since the 2007-08 season, started for the Nets when
they lost in the NBA Finals in 2002 and 2003.  He has recorded 11,842 assists to hold second place on the
all-time career list behind Hall of Famer John Stockton, who
tallied 15,806 assists.  The Nets are trying to rebuild a team that may include
Teletovic, 26, who will sign a three-year, $15 million contract
under the midlevel exception, the New York Times said, citing
people involved in the deal.  The Nets also agreed to acquire six-time NBA All-Star guard
 Joe Johnson  and bring back point guard and Brooklyn native  Deron Williams , who agreed to a five-year $98 million contract, ESPN
reported. Three-time Defensive Player of the Year Dwight Howard
remains a possibility to join the club, the network said.  Dragic Deal  Dragic agreed to a four-year, $30 million contract with the
Suns who added incentives of $4 million, AP reported, citing a
person with knowledge of the situation. The fourth year is a
player option.  The Suns also reached a three-year, $18 million deal with
free agent forward Michael Beasley, AP reported.  Nash, 38, will get a three-year contract worth more than
$25 million from the Lakers, the Arizona Republic newspaper
said. The Suns will receive 2013 and 2015 first-round picks,
2013 and 2014 second-round picks and $3.1 million, the report
said.  Guard  Jason Terry  has verbally agreed to a three-year deal
worth $5 million annually with the  Boston Celtics , ESPN
reported, citing unidentified people familiar with the
negotiations.  Terry, 34, averaged 15.1 points and 3.6 assists per game
last season for the Mavericks, where he’s played for eight
seasons. He ranks fourth on the NBA’s all-time list with 1,788
3-pointers and in 2009 was named Sixth Man of the Year, awarded
annually to the league’s best non-starter.  The Celtics also have offered  Ray Allen  $6.2 million, twice
the amount the  Miami Heat  have to disburse, the Boston Globe
reported. Still, the Heat are courting Allen, who is first in
career all-time 3-point goals at 2,718.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  