-- Knoedler Art Gallery in N.Y. Sued Over Alleged Fake Works
-- B y   E m i l y   G r a n n i s
-- 2012-07-06T20:22:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/knoedler-art-gallery-in-n-y-sued-over-alleged-fake-works.html
The defunct Knoedler Gallery in  New
York City  was sued and accused of selling $37 million in forged
paintings.  The buyer, John D. Howard, alleged today in a civil
racketeering complaint that in 2007 he paid $4 million for a
painting that Ann Freedman, the gallery’s president, said was
done in the 1950s by Willem de Kooning. Howard alleges the
painting was a forgery done by an associate of Freedman.  The gallery, on East 70th Street in  Manhattan , closed last
year after 165 years in business. It was the oldest in the city,
according to the complaint.  Knoedler employees allegedly misrepresented the ownership
history of the painting, falsely claimed experts had
authenticated the work, and sold it to Howard for more than five
times what the gallery paid for it.  Freedman’s sale of the painting to Howard was part of a
larger conspiracy to market at least 20 forged paintings since
2001, totaling sales of more than $37 million, before the
gallery closed in late 2011, according to the complaint.  The gallery was sued days after closing over a purportedly
forged Jackson Pollock painting. Kathleen Blomquist, a
spokeswoman, at that time called allegations of
misrepresentation “completely baseless.”  Lawyer’s Statement  Nicholas Gravante Jr., a lawyer with Boies, Schiller &
Flexner in  New York  who represents Freedman, said he is
confident Howard’s case, along with the two others pending, will
not succeed.  “This is a copycat case that we believe, like its
predecessor, has no chance of success,” Gravante said. “We
believe the painting at issue is genuine. But even if it’s not,
we are prepared to demonstrate conclusively that Ann Freedman
never misrepresented anything to anyone about this or any other
Rosales-sourced work.”  Glafira Rosales, also named as a defendant in Howard’s
case, supplied Freedman and the gallery with the allegedly
forged paintings, according to the complaint.  The case is Howard v. Freedman, 12-cv-05263, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emily Grannis in New York at   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  