-- N.Y. Yankees Parking Existential Default Hits Creditors
-- B y   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 2012-07-06T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/n-y-yankees-parking-existential-default-hits-creditors.html
The  New York  Yankees, the most
successful franchise in Major League Baseball history, sit atop
their division again. It’s the investors holding about $240
million of municipal debt tied to garages at Yankee Stadium who
are in a slump.  A  reserve fund  used to pay bondholders led by Nuveen Asset
Management and Third Avenue Management LLC may run dry by April.
Bronx Parking Development Co., a nonprofit that operates the
facilities under a lease with New York City, said last week that
the securities must be restructured, requiring investors to take
losses. Debt maturing in 2017 traded as low as 46 cents on the
dollar on June 20, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  More fans are taking public transportation to games, and
attendance at Yankee Stadium has slipped, cutting into the
revenue that backs the bonds. Occupancy at the garages and lots
has dropped to 38 percent from 46 percent last year, according
to securities filings. When the debt was issued in 2007, the
nonprofit projected occupancy of 88 percent.  “The outstanding bonds must be restructured to reflect the
present level of  cash flow  from operations,” Edward Moran, a
financial adviser for Bronx Parking, wrote in a notice filed
with the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board. “Unless debt-
service costs are lowered through a voluntary restructuring,
bankruptcy will eventually be BPDC’s only option.”  Moran also cut projections for the garage’s 2012 operating
income by 7.5 percent, to $6 million.  Five Garages  Bronx Parking issued $237.6 million of municipal bonds in
2007 through New York City’s Industrial Development Agency to
build three garages, renovate two others and refurbish six lots
near the 50,287-seat Yankee Stadium. The facility opened in 2009
adjacent to the site of the team’s old ballpark.  The city isn’t obligated to pay debt service if the bonds
default or Bronx Parking files for  bankruptcy protection . Even
so, the deal may become one of the biggest failures in decades
for debt issued by a  New York City  agency, according to
Municipal Market Advisors, a Concord, Massachusetts-based
research firm.  The project received a $70 million subsidy from New York
State and about $39 million from the city. As of Dec. 31, 2010,
Bronx Parking also owed the municipality $17.8 million in
payments in lieu of taxes, according to a March  audit  by
Comptroller  John Liu .  Ray  Orlando , a spokesman for the city’s Office of
Management and Budget, and Patrick Muncie, a spokesman for the
Economic Development Corp., declined to comment. Steven Polivy,
an attorney representing Bronx Parking, didn’t respond to
requests for comment. Moran said he couldn’t speak without
bondholders’ permission.  Nuveen Holdings  Kristyna Munoz, a Nuveen spokeswoman, said  John Miller , co-
head of fixed-income investment, wasn’t available for comment.  Nuveen held $131.1 million of the parking-garage debt as of
May 31, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Third Avenue
owned $27.5 million as of Jan. 31.  A refinancing where some bondholders accept losses of
principal and extend maturities is likely, said Laurence Gottlieb, Chief Executive Officer of Fundamental Advisors LP, a
New York-based private-equity firm that focuses on municipal
debt.  He declined to say whether Fundamental owned Bronx Parking
debt.  ‘Meaningful Restructuring’  “Achieving a meaningful restructuring of a facility like
Bronx Parking requires a unique level of expertise and
cooperation from investors, advisers and the authorities,”
Gottlieb said. “There are a number of similar muni-related
restructurings unfolding across the county that could benefit
from private-sector proficiency to produce a successful
resolution.”  Municipal bonds issued for a 954-space garage in downtown
 St. Paul ,  Minnesota  and a 2,700-space garage in Cincinnati,  Ohio 
are also in default, according to Bloomberg data.  The Yankee stadium parking garage project has been plagued
from the start.  Bronx Parking increased the number of available spaces to
about 9,300 from 7,425 even though the new stadium had about
7,000 fewer seats than the original ballpark, where  Babe Ruth 
played.  Meanwhile, fans put off by the $35 parking fee -- $48 for
valet service -- have sought cheaper spots at shopping malls and
smaller lots. Operating expenses at the garages and lots are
estimated at about $7.1 million this year, more than $4 million
over projections included as part of the official statement for
Bronx Parking’s 2007 bond sale.  Public Transportation  Cutting prices wouldn’t help much because more people are
taking public transportation, said Marlene Cintron, president of
the Bronx Overall Development Corp., a redevelopment agency in
the borough president’s office. She sits on the Bronx Parking
board.  An average of 3,151 people take the Metro-North Railroad to
the stadium, getting off at a station that opened in 2009,
according to Aaron Donovan, a spokesman for the  Metropolitan
Transportation Authority , which operates the line. That
translates into 500 to 1,000 fewer cars in the garages, he said.
About 15,000 fans per game take the subway, Donovan said.  “I took the train down from  Connecticut  and it was so
easy,” said Matt Fabian, a managing director at Municipal
Market Advisors. “The whole thing was easy and pleasant and
quick.”  Yankee home attendance has slipped to an average of 42,234
per game this year from 45,107 last year, according to the  ESPN
website . The Yankees won 49 games and lost 32 as of July 5 and
lead the  American League East .  Using Reserve  Bronx Parking has used its debt-service reserve since April
2011 to make interest payments. About $5 million remains in the
fund.  In a notice filed with the MSRB on June 26, Moran said
Bronx Parking’s corporate structure had to be reorganized.
Management also needs to better coordinate marketing with the
Yankees, including analyzing programs that would pay commissions
to the team.  Bond attorneys would need to examine the degree to which
the nonprofit Bronx Parking could work with the Yankees, a for-
profit company, because tax-exempt debt was used to finance the
garages, Moran wrote.  Alice McGillion, a spokeswoman for the Yankees, said the
team has suggested ways that Bronx Parking can improve marketing
and pricing to boost revenue. None was accepted, she said.  Hotel Proposal  Bronx Parking has also explored redevelopment
opportunities. Last year, it approved leases with companies that
want to develop affordable housing and retail. Meanwhile, the
Bronx economic-development agency proposed razing a four-level,
750,000-square-foot garage renovated using money from the  bond
issue  and building a hotel and conference center on the site,
one block south of the new stadium.  The agency received seven expressions of interest in the
hotel and conference center proposal, Cintron said in a
telephone interview. Cintron declined to name the companies.  “Can we do better marketing to attract a little bit more?
Probably,” said Cintron. “I think what we need to do is agree
that we have an issue that’s caused by external factors that
aren’t going to change anytime soon.”  Following are pending sales:  METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY plans to borrow $500
million of revenue bonds as soon as next week to help the New
York State agency finance capital projects. Jefferies & Co. will
lead a group of banks. Moody’s Investors Service rates the sale
A2, its sixth-highest grade. (Added July 6)  COLUMBUS, Ohio, will sell $447 million of general-
obligation bonds as soon as July 10 through competitive bidding,
according to Bloomberg data. Proceeds will help the capital city
finance water and sewer system upgrades and transportation
projects, according to offering documents.  Standard & Poor’s 
rates the bonds AAA, its highest grade. (Added July 6)  COLORADO is set to issue $500 million of tax- and revenue-
anticipation notes as soon as July 10 through competitive bids,
according to offering documents. The debt will mature in one
year. Moody’s gives the sale its highest short-term grade.
(Added July 5)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Martin Z. Braun in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  