-- N.Z. Budget Deficit NZ$1.1 Billion Narrower Than Forecast
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2012-07-06T00:01:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/n-z-budget-deficit-nz-1-1-billion-narrower-than-forecast-1-.html
New Zealand ’s budget deficit was
NZ$1.13 billion ($908 million) narrower than forecast in the 11
months through May as tax revenue exceeded expectations,
according to a Treasury Department report.  The government’s operating deficit before gains and losses
on investments was NZ$5.91 billion in the period ended May 31,
compared with a NZ$7.04 billion gap forecast in the budget
published on May 24, the Treasury said in monthly financial
statements released today in Wellington.  New Zealand’s government is cutting non-essential spending
and selling assets to speed up a return to surplus by 2014-15.
Finance Minister  Bill English  presented a budget with very
little new spending over the next four years, and forecast a
deficit of NZ$8.44 billion in the year ending June 30, 2012.  The result “is encouraging, but the global environment
remains uncertain, leading to a number of fluctuations in the
tax take from month to month,” English said in an e-mailed
statement. “These fluctuations reinforce the need for the
government to keep a firm control on its costs, so it can stay
on track to surplus by 2014/15.”  Tax revenue was NZ$667 million more than forecast, the
report showed. Company tax revenue was led higher by levies on
portfolio investment entities and terminal tax assessments, and
the gain is expected to persist in June, it said.  Government expenses were NZ$431 million less than forecast.
Fewer units were allocated under the emissions trading plan and
there were delays in payments for education programs, the
department said.  New Zealand’s  economy  grew at the fastest pace in five
years in the first quarter, boosting company profits and
 consumer spending , which led to better-than-forecast sales tax
revenue, the Treasury said.  “We have seen moderate strength in the economy over the
past year despite considerable disruption from global
uncertainty,” English said. “Balancing the books and returning
to surplus is one of the most important things the government
can do to build that resilience, as well as take pressure off
 interest rates  and the  exchange rate .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  