-- Navistar Falls on Costs for Engines to Meet U.S. Rules
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2012-07-06T18:06:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/navistar-to-introduce-new-engine-to-meet-2010-u-s-rules.html
Navistar International Corp. (NAV) , the
maker of International brand trucks, fell the most in four weeks
after saying it expects additional costs to introduce an engine
that will meet U.S. emission standards after its earlier
technology failed to comply.  Navistar  declined  16 percent to $24.24 at 1:54 p.m. in  New
York , after earlier sliding to $24.04, the biggest intraday
decline since June 7. The shares dropped 24 percent this year
through yesterday.  Navistar said the engine, called In-Cylinder Technology
Plus, adds “urea-based aftertreatment” to its exhaust gas
recirculation, or EGR, technology to meet 2010 U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency rules. A 13-liter engine will be
available in early 2013, with a 15-liter engine to follow, the
company said in a slideshow  presentation .  “We will need to expand our product development efforts,
but we will work hard to minimize this incremental spend,”
Chief Financial Officer Andrew Cederoth said on a conference
call, during which the company did not take questions from
analysts. “When we launch, we anticipate some incremental cost
to accommodate the additional hardware.”  The failure of the company’s previous engines to comply
with EPA regulations helped trigger a fall in the shares and
make Lisle, Illinois-based Navistar, which also makes commercial
and military trucks as well as buses, a potential takeover
target.  Costs, Discounting  “There’s no question that there are going to be some
issues here,”  David Leiker , an analyst at Robert W. Baird & Co.
in  Milwaukee , said today in a telephone interview. “They’re
probably going to have to discount the current technology to
sell it until the new technology is available, and then there’s
the cost to bring this new technology to market. It’d be nice
for them to clarify that, but it’s not going to happen today.”  Leiker rates Navistar shares neutral.  Navistar invested $600 million to develop EGR heavy truck
engines, which failed to meet the 2010 rules. The  U.S. Court of
Appeals  in  Washington  on June 12 threw out a U.S. EPA interim
rule that allowed Navistar to keep selling noncompliant engines
if it paid penalties of as much as $2,000 each.  Navistar didn’t clarify where it stands with EPA
certification of EGR engines or what fines it will have to
pay until the new engine is ready, Brian Sponheimer, an analyst
at Gabelli & Co. in Rye, New York, said in a phone interview.  More Questions  The new engine “reduces some tail risks to the company,
specifically as it relates to bankruptcy and being left with a
stranded strategy in the months ahead,” said Sponheimer, who
recommends buying the shares. The conference call “begged more
questions than it answered,” he said.  The EPA and  California Air Resources Board  are
“supportive” and “willing to engage immediately” in
reviewing the engine’s performance, according to Navistar’s
presentation. The company said it’s in discussions with
regulators about assuring uninterrupted sales during the
transition to the new engines.  Navistar should have announced a dual-sourcing strategy
using its own technology along with engines from  Cummins Inc. (CMI) ,
Sponheimer said. Navistar’s shares surged 11 percent on June 29
after OTR Global LLC said the company may start offering engines
from Columbus, Indiana-based Cummins.  ‘Infield Single’  “That would have been a home run,” Sponheimer said.
“What the company provided today was an infield single.
Providing its customers a choice of engine could only help its
market share and help leverage truck platforms.”  Billionaire investor  Carl Icahn  increased his stake in
Navistar to 11.9 percent in June and hedge fund manager  Mark Rachesky  disclosed a bigger position,  13.6 percent , as Navistar
slumped to a three-year low last month, prompting the company to
adopt a poison pill to help fend off hostile bids.  Navistar’s push to develop its own engine could make an
acquisition by another company “more tricky,” Rob Wertheimer,
an analyst at Vertical Research Partners in New York, wrote in a
research note. The company is a “natural fit” for  Volkswagen
AG (VOW) , which controls truck makers MAN SE and  Scania AB (SCVB) , or  Fiat
Industrial SpA (FI) , said Wertheimer, who revised his rating on
Navistar today to hold from buy.  “Navistar’s timeline and hopes of EPA support don’t take
away all the risk that the company could be out of the market”
until the new engine is ready, he wrote. “On the other hand, if
Navistar can stay in the market through the launch of this
engine, it remains an attractive target, with a very good brand,
dealer network, and technology.”  Profit Forecasts  Navistar last month lowered its full-year profit forecast
to a range of break-even to $2 a share, excluding some costs. In
February, the company forecast 2012 profit of as much as $5.75 a
share, then reduced the figure to a maximum of $5.25 a share in
March.  “It would be best to allow the process with the EPA to
come to completion before we comment further on our financial
forecasts,” the company said in its presentation. “As to
liquidity, our current position remains stable, and we believe
we have access to additional financing sources if appropriate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Bill Koenig  at 
 wkoenig@bloomberg.net  