-- New York May Hit 100 Tomorrow; Storms Threaten Washington
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-07-06T12:40:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/new-york-may-hit-100-tomorrow-storms-threaten-washington.html
New York  City faces “potentially
dangerous heat” tomorrow as high humidity combines with
temperatures near 100 degrees Fahrenheit (38 Celsius), while
another round of damaging thunderstorms may strike Washington
and the U.S. mid-Atlantic region.  Temperatures across New York City are expected to range
from 98 to 101, which may feel as hot as 106 because of
humidity, according to the  National Weather Service  in Upton,
New York. An excessive heat watch and a heat warning were posted
for the area.  “Saturday is definitely looking like the worst day in
terms of unhealthy heat,”  Tim Morrin , a Weather Service
meteorologist, said.  High temperatures boost demand for electricity as people
turn to air conditioning to cool homes and businesses. That can
increase electricity prices on the  spot market  and tax
distribution networks, leading to power outages.  The heat may cause New York and much of the mid-Atlantic to
use about 10 percent more electricity than normal to stay cool
from July 7 to July 13, said  David Salmon , owner of Weather
Derivatives in Belton, Missouri.  There is a slight risk of severe thunderstorms from
 Kentucky  to the mid-Atlantic coast, including Washington,
Richmond and Philadelphia, this weekend, according to the  Storm
Prediction Center  in Norman,  Oklahoma .  High Winds  “The main threat will be damaging wind with isolated hail
possible,” according to the center.  Thousands throughout that region lost power when a wave of
powerful thunderstorms crashed through last week, knocking down
trees, grounding wires and damaging homes and buildings.  According to Weather Service bulletins, people living in
New York and New Jersey face “potentially dangerous heat” and
should limit working outdoors.  If the temperature reaches 100 in Central Park, it will be
the first time that has happened in almost a year, according to
the Weather Service’s website. Since 2001, the temperature has
reached 100 in the park five times, once in 2001, twice in July
2010 and twice last year.  It would be the first time in 57 years the temperature has
hit 100 in Central Park three years in a row, according to the
Weather Service.  Morrin said the combination of high temperatures and
humidity hinders the body’s ability to cool itself, making the
weather feel hotter.  Eastern Heat  Heat is also affecting much of the eastern U.S.  “Very intense hot weather continues in the short range for
the Midwest, Deep South, and East with more record high
temperatures probably in many spots into this weekend,” said
 Matt Rogers , president of Commodity Weather Group LLC in
Bethesda,  Maryland .  Washington is expected to reach 100 today and 101 tomorrow,
according to the Weather Service. Baltimore may peak at 103
tomorrow, with Philadelphia reaching 102 and Richmond
registering 103.  Excessive heat warnings have been issued across the Midwest
from the Great Lakes to southern Missouri, Chicago is forecast
to reach 102 today, while the high in Des Moines, Iowa, may be
102 and  St. Louis  may be 109 today and 110 tomorrow, according
to the Weather Service.  The heat is expected to reach into New England and southern
Canada, as well.  Boston’s High  Boston ’s high may be 95 tomorrow. Toronto is forecast to
reach 97 today and Ottawa 91, according to Environment  Canada .  Since July 1, at least 1,215 daily high temperature records
have been set or tied across the U.S., according to the  National
Climatic Data Center  in Asheville,  North Carolina . The highest
temperature this month was 112 in Tennessee.  Temperatures along the East Coast are expected to cool next
week, Morrin said.  Rogers said seasonal temperatures should blanket the region
from Ohio to  Maine , while it may be cooler than normal from
North Carolina to Florida for July 11 to July 15.  There is potential for heat to return from July 16 to July
20 with temperatures rising to about 5 degrees above normal
across the northern U.S. and 8 degrees above normal in Canada.  For July 10, the normal average temperature in  New York
City  is 77, according to MDA EarthSat Weather in Gaithersburg,
Maryland. It’s 73 in Boston; 80 in Washington; 80 in Atlanta; 75
in Chicago; 84 in Houston; 65 in Seattle and 74 in Burbank,
California.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  