-- New York Gasoline Gains After PBF Oil Refineries Report Issues
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2012-07-06T18:27:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/new-york-gasoline-gains-after-pbf-oil-refineries-report-issues.html
New York  gasoline rose for a fifth
day after  PBF Energy Inc. (PBF)  reported equipment upsets at
refineries in  New Jersey  and Delaware.  The company had a malfunction yesterday at its Paulsboro
plant, according to a filing with the New Jersey Department of
Environmental Protection. The Delaware City refinery flared
gases after a compressor failed, PBF said in a filing yesterday
with state regulators.  Conventional gasoline to be blended with ethanol, or CBOB,
in New York gained 6.13 cents, rising to a premium of 1.88 cents
a gallon versus futures traded on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  at 2:09 p.m., according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Prompt delivery rose 2.05 cents to $2.7428 a gallon.  East Coast gasoline inventories slipped for the third time
in four weeks to the lowest level since Nov. 11, the Energy
Department said yesterday. Gasoline stockpiles in independent
storage in Amsterdam-Rotterdam-Antwerp, Europe’s oil-trading
hub, dropped 5.6 percent to 588,000 metric tons in the week
through yesterday, according to PJK International BV, a
researcher in the Netherlands. That’s the lowest level since
Nov. 10.  The premium for conventional, 87-octane gasoline in the
Midwest, or Group 3, rose 0.5 cent to 1.75 cents a gallon over
futures. It’s the highest level since Jun. 22.  CVR Energy Inc. (CVI)  is working to return a unit to service at
its Wynnewood refinery in Oklahoma, according to a filing with
the National Response Center.  The refinery reported an ongoing release of hydrogen
sulfide since July 3 because of unplanned maintenance, the
filing showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in New York at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  