-- TNK-BP Surges on AAR Stake Acquisition Proposal: Moscow Mover
-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a   a n d   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2012-07-06T15:39:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/tnk-bp-surges-on-aar-stake-acquisition-proposal-moscow-mover.html
TNK-BP jumped for the first time in
three days as AAR, a group representing billionaire partners in
the Russian oil producer, said it will offer to buy half of  BP
Plc (BP/) ’s 50 percent holding within the next two weeks.  TNK-BP surged as much as 3.3 percent earlier before trading
up 0.3 percent at 76.25 rubles by the close in Moscow. BP’s
shares lost 1.4 percent to 428.2 pence in  London .  AAR will notify the U.K. company of an intention to
exercise its right to negotiate for the stake by about July 19,
Mikhail Luskutov, a spokesman for the group, said today by e-
mail. The proposal would leave AAR holding 75 percent of TNK-BP
and BP 25 percent. BP will consider the offer but hasn’t yet
received a bid from AAR, David Nicholas, a London-based
spokesman for the company said in an e-mail.  “We see the news as positive for TNK-BP,” Daria Kozlova,
an analyst at Rye MAN & Gor Securities, said in an e-mailed
research note. “Rebalancing of power to AAR should minimize
risks of further conflicts with BP, which have negatively
affected quotes of the traded subsidiary. It will be also easier
to push forward the international projects as BP directors in
the board used to vote against such.”  BP announced on June 1 that it would pursue unsolicited
approaches from bidders it didn’t identify. AAR said then it had
made a preliminary proposal on buying half of BP’s stake about a
month earlier. The existing 50-50 partnership no longer serves
the shareholders’ interests, billionaire  Mikhail Fridman  said
May 31 after stepping down as TNK-BP chief executive officer
earlier that week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net ;
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  