-- TNK-BP Billionaires Will Offer to Buy Half of BP’s Stake
-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a   a n d   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2012-07-06T16:23:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/tnk-bp-billionaires-will-offer-to-buy-half-of-bp-s-50-holding.html
BP Plc (BP/) ’s billionaire partners plan to
bid for half of the U.K. oil producer’s 50 percent holding in
Russian venture TNK-BP, rather than buying the entire stake
valued at $32 billion last year.  AAR, the group representing the billionaires, will notify
the U.K. company of an intention to negotiate for the stake on
about July 19, Mikhail Loskutov, a spokesman for the group, said
today by e-mail. In June, the London-based company said it was
considering exiting the venture after receiving proposals to buy
its shareholding.  TNK-BP has paid the London-based producer $19 billion in
dividends since 2003 and accounts for a quarter of the company’s
global output. BP Chief Executive Officer Bob Dudley decided to
look for a sale after fighting repeatedly with the Russian
partners, who last year blocked an alliance between the British
company and  Russia ’s OAO Rosneft.  “This would just dilute BP’s position and make it a
running sore,” said Iain Armstrong, an analyst at Brewin
Dolphin Ltd. in  London . “BP wants out. If Dudley agrees to this
kind of scenario, I suspect his job will be on the line.”  TNK-BP’s traded unit gained 0.3 percent in Moscow to close
at 76.25 rubles. BP shares dropped 1.4 percent to 428.2 pence in
London trading.  Preliminary Proposal  “While we haven’t yet seen anything, if AAR do express an
interest we will consider it alongside the indications of
interest that we have already received,” David Nicholas, a
London-based spokesman for BP said in an e-mail.  “We look
forward to receiving their offer and considering it in detail.”  AAR made a preliminary proposal on buying half of BP’s
stake about a month before BP said it was considering selling
its stake, Loskutov said today. The existing 50-50 partnership
no longer serves the shareholders’ interests, billionaire
 Mikhail Fridman  said May 31 after stepping down as TNK-BP chief
executive officer earlier that week.  ‘It is the price that will send a message,’’  Alexei Kokin ,
an oil and gas analyst at Uralsib Financial Corp., said by
telephone from Moscow today. “If the whole company is valued
any less than $40 billion then it is just maneuvering. If it is
higher, then it is probably serious offer.  ‘‘It would be understandable to do the purchase in two
steps because it would be hard to come up with $25 billion in
one tranche,’’ he said.  BP and Rosneft offered to buy out AAR last year for $32
billion, possibly including stock and AAR rejected the bid. That
offer would value 25 percent of the company at $16 billion. AAR
had blocked an alliance between BP Rosneft, saying it violated
TNK-BP’s sharehold agreement.  Under the terms of agreement, the billionaires have 45 days
to consider the acquisition from BP’s June 1 announcement and 90
days to negotiate thereafter, two people with knowledge of the
rights have said. BP can hold talks with other bidders during
that period, they said, declining to be identified because the
matter is confidential.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  