-- NYC’s Savoy Park Apartments $210 Million Loan Modified
-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 2012-07-06T18:59:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/nyc-s-savoy-park-apartments-210-million-loan-modified.html
A real estate fund created by
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  and L&M Development Partners modified the $210
million loan on New York’s Savoy Park apartments after they took
over the property.  The senior mortgage on the rent-stabilized Harlem complex
was split into two, including a $50 million portion on which
payments may be deferred until the property is sold, according
to a note by LNR Partners LLC, the loan’s servicer.  Citigroup and L&M announced last month that they agreed to
buy the seven-building complex, which was valued at $153.3
million in 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. They
took ownership after junior lenders they were affiliated with
gained control when the original borrowers, AREA Property
Partners LP and Vantage Properties LLC, failed to make payments.  “Lenders maybe are less patient than they used to be, and
if they conclude that the borrower is not necessary for the
project to work, maybe they’re going to get aggressive in
getting rid of the borrower,” said  Joshua Stein , principal of
New York-based commercial real estate firm Joshua Stein PLLC,
who was not involved in the deal.  “The trend has been amend, extend, pretend, wait,” he
said in a telephone interview. “And with values recovering,
that has worked pretty well. But rent-stabilized properties in
 New York City  have a pretty steady income stream, and if it
couldn’t service the old debt, that probably isn’t going to
change.”  Mounting Debt  Vantage and AREA bought Savoy Park for $175 million in
2006, near the peak of the commercial real estate market. In
2007, the complex was valued at $420 million on the expectation
of higher rents, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That
same year, the owners borrowed against the property, adding
$367.5 million of debt, including the $210 million senior
mortgage that was packaged into bonds and sold to investors.  The partners were unable to raise apartment rents high
enough to cover the debt service, prompting a transfer in 2010
of the senior loan to a so-called special servicer, Bloomberg
data show. Special servicers negotiate with property owners on
behalf of commercial-mortgage bondholders.  With 97 percent of Savoy Park’s units occupied, Vantage and
AREA generated enough income to cover only half of the about
$1.1 million in monthly interest payments on the mortgage,
according to Bloomberg data from 2009.  Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for Vantage, and Eric
Waters, an AREA spokesman, declined to comment on the loan
transfer. Maya Kriet, a spokeswoman for L&M, didn’t respond to
an e-mail.  Loan Terms  Citigroup and L&M negotiated new terms for the senior
mortgage, splitting it into two, including a $160 million
portion on which the partners will make monthly interest
payments at a reduced rate, LNR said in the note. The owners
won’t be required to pay off the $50 million second loan until
the property is sold or refinanced.  The servicer extended the loan maturity by almost four
years, to December 2017, with the option of another extension to
April 2018, according to the note.  As part of the deal, Citigroup and L&M paid $3.15 million
in fees, LNR said. They also invested $17 million in new equity
in the property, which will accrue interest at 13 percent
annually.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in  New York  at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  