-- NYSE Retail Plan, Japan Probe, Intel Appeal: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-07-06T12:04:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/nyse-retail-plan-japan-probe-intel-appeal-compliance.html
The New York Stock Exchange’s plan to
lure more stock orders from individuals was approved by the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission, dealing a setback to Wall
Street firms that increasingly keep the business for themselves.  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  said in a statement the program will start
Aug. 1. The company  sought permission  in October for the one-
year pilot to lure orders by offering retail brokers potentially
better prices than are available elsewhere. Under the plan, a
class of retail liquidity provider at the NYSE would be allowed
to reserve and keep hidden bids and offers for smaller investors
as long as the prices beat those in the rest of the market.  The exchange operator’s program may help it attract orders
that otherwise would be retained by financial firms and matched
through a process known as internalization. NYSE market share of
trading in  companies  it lists has fallen to less than 25 percent
in May from 82 percent in 2003, data compiled by Bloomberg and
 Barclays Plc (BARC)  show.  Joseph Mecane, executive vice president and chief
administrative officer for U.S. markets at NYSE Euronext, said
in an interview with Bloomberg News that the company expects the
program to result in more liquidity and better prices flowing
back to retail customers.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  EU Parliament Committee Postpones Vote on Financial Markets Law  The  European Parliament ’s economic and monetary affairs
committee has postponed voting on a draft financial markets law
until September at the earliest,  Sharon Bowles , the panel’s
chairwoman, said by e-mail yesterday.  The committee had been scheduled to vote on the law, known
as Mifid, next week, according to the parliament’s website. The
delay allows more time for the assembly’s political groups to
broker compromises on the legislation.  The Mifid law, proposed last year, must be approved by the
parliament and national governments before it can enter into
force.  Separately, the  European Commission  adopted technical rules
governing short-selling and credit-default swaps on sovereign
debt, the commission said in a statement.  The European Union also approved a law to toughen
regulation of over-the-counter derivatives. The legislation will
require standard forms of OTC derivatives to be traded through
clearinghouses, and to be logged in trade repositories.  The law was agreed on by the bloc’s national governments
and by lawmakers in the European Parliament in February, the EU
said in an e-mailed statement.  Euro Finance Chiefs to Seek Political Accord on Spain Bailout  Euro-area finance ministers will seek a political
endorsement of a Spanish bank bailout agreement when they
convene in Brussels on July 9.  The ministers will also discuss Greece’s implementation of
measures required under a second international rescue program
and the situation in Cyprus, which has also sought aid,
according to an e-mailed statement distributed today by the
Luxembourg government.  Finra Requests Comment on Proposed Crowdfunding Activities Rule  The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority is seeking
comment on how its rules should apply to brokerages involved in
sales of securities through so-called crowdfunding, according to
a statement on its website.  Crowdfunding, a practice that lets startup companies raise
capital through social-networking platforms such as Facebook
Inc. and Twitter Inc., is permitted under U.S. legislation
signed into law in April.  The law requires intermediaries to register with the
Securities and Exchange Commission as a “funding portal” and
to sign up with an applicable self-regulatory organization such
as Finra, Finra said.  Germany Wants More Control of High-Frequency Trading, HB Reports  Germany’s Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  wants more
control over high-frequency trading to minimize risks to the
financial system, Handelsblatt reported, citing a draft law.  High-frequency trading accounts for 40 percent of total
trading volumes in Germany, Handelsblatt reported, citing
Bundesbank estimates.  Compliance Action  French Banks Settle With Competition Authority on Payment Fees  French banks reached an agreement with the national
competition regulator to end a probe into interbank commissions
applied to electronic withdrawals and other means of automatic
payments, the agency said in a statement yesterday.  The main interbank fees targeted by the regulator will be
cut in half by Sept. 1 and eliminated a year later, according to
the online statement.  Japan’s DPJ Urges Insider-Trading Probe of 20 Offerings  Japan’s ruling party urged regulators to pursue a wider
investigation of insider trading after finding spikes in
transaction volumes of 20 stocks before public offerings.  The  Democratic Party of Japan  asked the Tokyo Stock
Exchange to provide a list of the 10 investors who sold the most
shares the day before the companies announced issuances between
July 2009 and July 2011, said  Tsutomu Okubo , head of a party
panel studying the issue.  Lawmakers are examining whether insider trading before
stock sales is more widespread than the cases involving four
offerings uncovered by regulators since March. The crackdown has
centered on short-selling based on tips provided by underwriters
including  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) , which last week suspended some
businesses and cut top executives’ pay over the scandal.  Financial Services Minister Tadahiro Matsushita this week
called on 12 local brokerages to review how they handle
confidential data. The Tokyo Stock Exchange plans to inspect
about 30 Japanese and foreign brokerages to determine how they
guard information, a senior bourse official said last month.  Separately, Japan’s banking regulator asked a dozen
securities firms to check whether they leaked information to
hedge fund adviser Japan Advisory Ltd., as part of a government
probe into insider trading.  The Financial Services Agency made the request this week as
part of its call on the 12 brokerages including Nomura and
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  to review how they handle private
information, Financial Services Minister Tadahiro Matsushita
said at a news conference in Tokyo today.  The FSA suspects Japan Advisory sought information from
brokerages on forthcoming share sales in exchange for high
commissions, the Nikkei newspaper reported today, without
attribution. Japan is attempting to restore confidence in the
country’s  financial markets  by cracking down on short-selling
based on tips from underwriters of public offerings.  Calls to a spokesman at Nomura weren’t immediately
returned. Hiroko Matsumoto, a spokeswoman for Goldman Sachs in
Tokyo, declined to comment. Edward Brogan, head of Japan
Advisory, didn’t immediately reply to an e-mail or answer phone
calls.  Goldman Adds Structured Note Value Disclosure After SEC Request  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. has begun disclosing its own
valuations for structured notes in offering prospectuses, after
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission recommended that
banks include such an estimate.  The U.S. regulator advised banks to add “fair value”
disclosures in a  letter  to lenders it didn’t identify that was
posted on its website April 13.  In a May 15 offering from Goldman Sachs of “Absolute
Return Knock-Out Notes,” the bank wrote that the securities are
“equal to approximately  $960 per $1,000 ” note issued. A
similar May 4 deal lacked such details, instead using language
that the price received for the notes may be “significantly
less than the  original issue price ,” according to prospectuses
filed with the SEC.  The bank’s earliest use of valuation estimates was in mid-
May, according to a search of SEC records online.  Tiffany Galvin, a New York-based spokeswoman for Goldman
Sachs, declined to comment.  The U.S. structured-note industry has come under scrutiny
from regulators for the securities’ complexity and lack of
 transparency .  Courts  Intel Calls EU Case for $1.3 Billion Fine ‘Utterly Hopeless’  Intel Corp. (INTC) ’s 1.06 billion-euro ($1.3 billion) fine for
using rebates to block rivals is based on an “utterly
hopeless” and untenable case by European Union regulators,
company lawyers told an EU appeals court.  The 2009 decision by the EU’s antitrust regulator was based
on claims that are “utter nonsense,” an Intel lawyer told the
EU General Court in Luxembourg. Claims that Intel made payments
to  Lenovo Group Ltd. (992)  to cut  Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD)  out of
the market are baseless and should be overturned.  Nicholas Green, a lawyer for Intel, made the remarks at the
EU’s second-highest court yesterday on the third day of the
hearings, which are scheduled to conclude today.  The EU probe concluded Intel impeded competition by giving
computer makers rebates from 2002 until 2005 on the condition
that they buy at least 95 percent of their chips for personal
computers from the Santa Clara, California-based company. Intel
imposed “restrictive conditions” for the remaining 5 percent,
supplied by AMD, which struggled to overcome Intel’s hold on the
PC processor market, the EU said. The infringement continued
until at least December 2007, the EU said.  The 2006 payments “were to win business, not to cancel a
launch” of AMD-based notebooks, Intel’s lawyer Green said.  The commission said evidence showed the deal hinged on
exclusivity.  Any decision by the EU General Court can be appealed to the
EU Court of Justice in Luxembourg.  The case is T-286/09 Intel Corp. v. Commission.  Axius CEO Kaufmann Indicted in Alleged Scheme to Bribe Brokers  Axius Inc. (AXIU)  Chief Executive Officer Roland Kaufmann was
indicted on charges he participated in a scheme to bribe brokers
and manipulate the share price of the Dubai-based company.  Kaufmann, 60, was charged in an indictment filed yesterday
in federal court in Brooklyn, New York. He was charged with
conspiracy to commit securities fraud, wire fraud, money
laundering and other crimes. Jean-Pierre Neuhaus, 55, a Swiss
financial professional, was also named in the filing.  No Axius investors were defrauded in the undercover
operation, the Justice Department said in the statement. The
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission filed a related civil
enforcement action against both men yesterday, prosecutors said.  Robert Nardoza , a spokesman for U.S. Attorney Loretta Lynch
in Brooklyn and, Josef Klazen, a lawyer for Kaufmann, didn’t
immediately return voice-mail messages after regular business
hours yesterday seeking comment on the indictment.  Interviews: Libor Probe  Balls Slams Osborne for ‘Utterly False’ Libor Comments  Ed Balls , the U.K. Labour Party’s top Treasury spokesman,
accused U.K.  Chancellor of the Exchequer   George Osborne  of
“utterly false and untrue” allegations linking Balls to Libor
rigging.  Osborne also spoke in this report. The exchange took place
during a House of Commons debate on whether there should be a
judge-led probe on the rate-fixing scandal.  For the video, click here.  Large Banks ‘Fraught With Conflicts,’ Schlosstein Says  Ralph Schlosstein, president and chief executive officer of
 Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR) , talked about the broadening
investigation into alleged collusion by banks in setting
interbank lending rates, public and investor confidence in the
financial system, and the outlook for industry regulation.  Schlosstein, who spoke with  Erik Schatzker  and  Trish Regan 
on Bloomberg Television’s “Market Makers,” also discussed the
U.S. economy and Evercore’s performance.  Arthur Levitt , former
chairman of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and a
Bloomberg LP board member, also spoke.  For the Schlosstein video, click here.  Separately, Levitt also talked about the credibility of the
London interbank offered rate and Barclays Plc’s rate-rigging
scandal.  For the Levitt video, click here.  Cohan Calls Libor Scandal ‘Wildfire’ That Could Spread  William Cohan, author of “Money and Power: How Goldman
Sachs Came to Rule the World” and a Bloomberg View columnist,
talked about Barclays Plc’s Libor-rigging scandal and its
implications for other banks.  Cohan spoke with  Tom Keene , Scarlet Fu and Sara Eisen on
Bloomberg Television’s “Surveillance.”  For the video, click here.  Skidelsky Says Libor Rigging Shows Banks Lack Integrity  Robert Skidelsky , a member of the U.K. House of Lords,
talked about the culture in London’s financial services industry
amid interest-rate rigging by banks.  He spoke with Maryam Nemazee on Bloomberg Television’s
“The Pulse.”  For the video, click here.  Comings and Goings  Champ Will Succeed Rominger as SEC Investment Management Chief  Norm Champ, a former general counsel to hedge-fund manager
Chilton Investment Co., was appointed director of the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission’s Investment Management unit,
the agency said yesterday.  Champ, who joined the SEC in 2010 as associate regional
director for examinations in its New York office, will succeed
former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. executive Eileen Rominger, who
is retiring, the agency said in an e-mail statement. Champ will
assume his new duties on July 9, the SEC said.  The office Champ will lead is responsible for promoting
capital formation through oversight and regulation of the
multitrillion-dollar investment management industry, the SEC
said in its  statement .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New York at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  