-- Obama Frees More Than Half of States on ‘No Child’ Rules
-- B y   J o h n   H e c h i n g e r
-- 2012-07-06T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/obama-frees-more-than-half-of-states-on-no-child-rules.html
President  Barack Obama  freed more
than half of U.S. states from  No Child Left Behind  education-
testing rules after they pledged to turn around low-performing
schools and tie teacher evaluations to student achievement.  Wisconsin  and the state of Washington today received
waivers from provisions of the statute, the administration
announced. Twenty-six states, including  New York ,  New Jersey  and
Florida, have now have been granted permission to circumvent the
rules in exchange for agreeing to elements of the Obama
administration’s education agenda.  Seeking to fulfill a campaign promise to change 10-year-
old No Child Left Behind program, Obama is sidestepping
Congress, which hasn’t overhauled the law even as Republicans
and Democrats attack it. Obama has said the statute’s focus on
standardized-testing dumbs down teaching, narrows school
curricula and labels even high-achieving schools as failing.  U.S. Education Secretary  Arne Duncan  called the fact that
more than half of the 50 states are now opting out of the law
“a remarkable milestone,” saying the first requests were
granted only in February.  Republicans -- including  John Kline , chairman of the House
Education and the Workforce Committee -- have said No Child
should be changed by Congress through legislation, rather than
by the administration through executive orders.  A bipartisan rewriting of the law “remains the best path
forward in education reform, but as 28 states have now
demonstrated, our kids can’t wait any longer for Congress to
act,” Duncan said in a statement.  Proficiency Tests  States obtaining waivers become exempt from the requirement
that all of their students pass achievement tests by 2014 ---
and that their schools progress toward that goal each year.
Under the law, states that miss the goals risk losing federal
funding. Under No Child Left Behind, each state establishes its
own proficiency tests and determines what constitutes passing.  Almost half of U.S. public schools are considered failing
under the No Child Left Behind law, according to a report in
December by the Center on Education Policy, a  Washington , D.C.-
based nonpartisan research group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Hechinger in Boston at 
 jhechinger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at   lwolfson@bloomberg.net  