-- Obama Fails to Gain as Unemployment Stuck Since March
-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g   a n d   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 2012-07-06T20:58:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/obama-fails-to-gain-as-unemployment-stuck-since-march.html
Job growth remained stuck in June,
depriving President  Barack Obama  of progress on voters’
overriding concern as he campaigned in industrial  Ohio  and
Pennsylvania.  U.S. employers added 80,000 jobs last month, below
economists’ forecasts and up only slightly from a 77,000
increase in May.  As the November presidential election approaches and
voters’ views of Obama’s performance solidify, the encouraging
job gains at the start of the year have stalled. June concluded
the worst quarter for private-sector hiring in more than two
years, with last month’s 8.2 percent  unemployment rate  no better
than in March.  Democrat Obama, speaking today at a campaign stop in
Poland, Ohio, said the new jobs were “a step in the right
direction” though the economy has to grow “even faster.”  Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  called the
jobs report “another kick in the gut.”  “The president’s policies have not gotten America working
again, and the president is going to have to stand up and take
responsibility for it,” Romney said at a hardware store in
Wolfeboro,  New Hampshire , where he’s vacationing this week.  Chances are slipping for an Election Day  unemployment rate 
below 8 percent, a psychological milestone for voters, said
Patrick Sims, a director at Hamilton Place Strategies, a
Washington policy and communications firm co-founded by former
Republican White House and Treasury press aides.  Final Stop  “Time has run out” to reach that goal, Sims wrote in a
note to clients, calculating that the economy would need to add
an average of 219,000 jobs during the next four months.  At the final stop of the two-day bus trip through Ohio and
Pennsylvania, Obama told approximately 6,500 people at  Carnegie
Mellon University  in Pittsburgh that “inch by inch, yard by
yard, mile by mile” the economy is starting to grow again.  He repeated a campaign theme that rebuilding the economy
isn’t from “the top down” but from “the middle class out.”
Obama told the crowd, standing in 93 degree heat, that Romney’s
plan to cut taxes for the wealthy was the same plan tried
“before I took office. We tried it and it didn’t work.”  Obama has “got to be concerned about” the “sideways”
jobs report, said  John Podesta , a White House chief of staff
under Democratic President  Bill Clinton , in an interview for
Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital with  Al Hunt ” airing
this weekend. At the same time, Podesta added, “I don’t think
it’s a disaster either.”  Monthly ‘Referendum’  The monthly report has taken on so much political
significance amid voter discontent with the economy that it
amounts to a regular “referendum” on the president, said
Kathleen Hall Jamieson, a professor at the  University of
Pennsylvania ’s Annenberg School for Communication in
Philadelphia.  “Once every month the public sees it as a signal of either
the competence of the president or his failures,” Jamieson said
in an interview before the report’s release. The  Dow Jones
Industrial Average (INDU)  and “the unemployment rate are among the few
things that voters can see over time as a continuing indicator
that they understand.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slid 0.9 percent to
1,354.67 at 4 p.m. in New York, sending it lower for the week.
Treasury 10-year yields fell five basis points to 1.55 percent.  Underemployment Rises  Private forecasters had expected the Labor Department
report to show 100,000 new jobs last month, according to the
median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Joblessness has exceeded 8 percent since February 2009, the
longest such stretch since monthly records began in 1948.  The so-called  underemployment rate  -- which includes part-
time workers who’d prefer a full-time position and people who
want work but have given up looking -- increased to 14.9 percent
from 14.8 percent.  Obama used his trip to draw a contrast with Romney, who co-
founded Bain Capital LLC, based in Boston.  Romney’s experience “has been in owning companies that
were called pioneers of outsourcing,” Obama said yesterday
while campaigning in Maumee, Ohio. “My experience has been in
saving the American  auto industry , and as long as I’m president,
that’s what I’m going to be doing.”  Shortly before the president’s arrival in Ohio yesterday,
his administration announced that it had filed a complaint with
the  World Trade Organization  accusing China of levying unfair
tariffs on U.S. autos.  The duties cited in the WTO claim cover more than 80
percent of U.S. auto exports to China, including cars made in
the Ohio cities of Toledo and Marysville, White House press
secretary  Jay Carney  told reporters during the flight to Ohio
from Washington yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net ;
Kate Andersen Brower in Pittsburgh at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  