-- Obama Health-Care Assent by Court Precedes S&P Rally
-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t ,   L u   W a n g   a n d   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 2012-07-06T20:56:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/obama-health-care-assent-by-court-precedes-s-p-rally.html
If investors expect President Barack Obama’s health-care reform law to freeze the American economy,
they’re not showing it in the stock market.  About $470 billion has been added to U.S. equity values
since the  Supreme Court  upheld Obama’s plan to provide coverage
to 32 million uninsured citizens on June 28, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index posted its
biggest three-day rally of the year and has risen 2.7 percent
since the decision, with gains in 43 of its 52 health-care
companies.  HCA Holdings Inc. (HCA) , the largest U.S. hospital chain,
has climbed 8 percent.  Equities are rising even as opponents from Republican House
Speaker  John Boehner  to anti-tax advocate  Grover Norquist  warn
the program will stifle free enterprise. While health-insurance
companies are down 7 percent since the ruling, gains in
everything else show investors remain focused on earnings
growth, employment and efforts by European leaders to contain
the debt crisis, according to  David Kelly , who helps oversee
$394 billion as chief market strategist at JPMorgan Funds.  “People have very strong political opinions and very weak
analytical and investment opinions related to health care,”
Kelly said in a telephone interview from New York yesterday.
“The European summit that occurred that Thursday and Friday was
far more important for global financial markets than the
president’s health-care act. You saw that in the market’s
reaction.”  Annual Increase  The  S&P 500 ’s  rally  since the ruling has brought its
increase for 2012 to 8.8 percent and handed investors in
American stocks the only gains over the last 12 months among the
world’s 17 biggest markets, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
S&P 500 climbed 2.2 percent since July 2011, compared with a 9
percent drop in Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average and 5.5 percent
slump in FTSE 100 Index.  Cardinal Health Inc. (CAH)  in Dublin, Ohio, the second-largest
U.S. drug distributor by revenue, is up 5.6 percent, the third-
most in the S&P 500 gauge of companies in the industry, since
the Supreme Court upheld Obama’s health-care law. Madison, New
Jersey-based  Quest Diagnostics Inc. (DGX) , the biggest U.S. operator
of medical laboratories, climbed 4.3 percent.  Health-care stocks  in the S&P 500 have advanced 17 percent
since the day before Congress passed the law, known as the
Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. That compares with
an 18 percent increase for all companies in the full index and a
30 percent rally for a group of health insurers in the gauge.  Europe Crisis  While politicians debate the future of the law, investors
are more interested in the effect Europe’s debt crisis will have
on corporate earnings in the U.S., said E. William Stone, chief
investment strategist at PNC Wealth Management in Philadelphia.
His firm manages about $112 billion. Profits in the S&P 500 are
projected to climb 7.2 percent this year and 12 percent in 2013,
according to more than 10,000 analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  The  European Central Bank  cut  interest rates  to a record
low on July 5 and said it won’t pay anything on overnight
deposits as the sovereign debt crisis threatens to drive the
euro region into recession. Some “downside risks to the euro-
area economic outlook have materialized,” ECB President  Mario Draghi  said at a press conference.  Earnings Season  “When you compare it to the debt crisis in Europe, when
you compare it to worries about the labor market in U.S., when
you compare it to the slowdown in the emerging economy, health
care is just not as important to the market and you’re seeing
that,” Greg Woodard, a strategist at Manning & Napier in
Fairport, New York, which manages about $40 billion, said in a
phone interview on July 5. “That just took a backseat.”  Alcoa Inc. in New York, America’s biggest aluminum
producer, is due to begin the U.S.  earnings-reporting season  on
July 9. Analysts project S&P 500 earnings will contract for the
first time since 2010, dropping 1.8 percent from a year ago,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Republicans led byBoehner have contended the health-care
law will raise taxes, destroy jobs and burden businesses with
rules.  “Let’s stop payment on this check before it can destroy
more jobs and put us in a deeper hole,” Boehner said during his
floor speech in January 2011 when the U.S. House of
Representatives voted to repeal the health-care overhaul. Senate
Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky Republican, said
this month the law amounts to a tax on the American people and
its repeal remains the party’s top priority.  Tax Reform  Norquist, president of Americans for  Tax Reform  in
Washington, said the law includes a number of taxes such as a
penalty starting in 2014 on companies with more than 50 workers
that don’t meet government standards for affordable coverage.
Such legislation may curb their willingness to hire during one
of the worst economic recoveries on record, he said.  “The law will slow economic growth,” Norquist said
yesterday in a phone interview. “It will be disastrous for
hiring. It’s a direct tax on employment.”  Payrolls rose 80,000 last month after a 77,000 increase in
May, Labor Department figures showed today in Washington.
Economists projected a 100,000 gain, according to the median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey. The  unemployment rate  held
at 8.2 percent. Joblessness has exceeded 8 percent since
February 2009, the longest such stretch since monthly records
began in 1948.  The S&P 500’s health-care index fell 0.7 percent to 436.09
today.  Limited Medicaid  While the 5-4 ruling on June 28 gave Obama an election-year
victory by declaring that Congress had the power to make
Americans obtain insurance or pay a penalty, the justices said
an expansion of the Medicaid program for the poor went too far.
They limited the law’s extension of Medicaid by saying the
federal government can’t threaten to withhold existing funds
from states that don’t fully comply.  Jonathan Golub , the chief U.S. market strategist at UBS AG,
cut his forecast for the S&P 500 this year to 1,375 from 1,475
this week, citing a polarized political environment following
the ruling, which makes it difficult for Republicans and
Democrats in Congress to reach agreement on economic decisions.  Partisan Debate  “One of the most important catalysts for our changed view
is the Supreme Court decision on health care, which we believe
will result in a more partisan debate over end-of-year issues,
such as the fiscal cliff and debt ceiling,” New York-based
Golub wrote in a July 2 report to investors.  The fiscal cliff refers to about $607 billion of tax
increases and spending cuts that kick in at the end of the year
without action. Should lawmakers do nothing the economy may fall
into a recession in early 2013, according to the  Congressional
Budget Office .  All six  managed health-care providers  in the S&P 500
slumped since June 27, falling 7 percent on average, amid
concern new regulations may cut into profit margins with
provisions banning insurers from discriminating against people
with pre-existing conditions.  WellPoint Inc. (WLP)  in Indianapolis, the second-largest U.S.
health insurer, sank 12 percent to $61.25 since June 28.
Minnetonka, Minnesota-based  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH) , the
biggest, declined 5.9 percent to $55.81.  Cheap Options  “Obama sees insurance companies as one of the adversaries
and one of the problems with health-care costs,” Joseph Veranth, chief investment officer at Dana Investment Advisors in
Brookfield, Wisconsin, said in a telephone interview. The firm
manages $3.7 billion and owns shares of WellPoint and
UnitedHealth. “I don’t think it’s going to bother Obama if the
prices of insurance companies go down.”  Options traders were paying the cheapest prices in 10
months to protect against swings in health-care stocks compared
with U.S. equities before the court decision, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Since then, the cost of puts relative to
calls on the  Health Care Select Sector SPDR Fund (XLV)  tumbled to its
lowest level since August 2009 as investors boosted bullish bets
on the exchange-traded fund, which tracks stocks such as
UnitedHealth Group and Johnson & Johnson.  “I don’t think the market was concerned with over-
regulation of health care at all,”  Timothy Ghriskey , chief
investment officer of Solaris Group in Bedford Hills, New York,
said yesterday in an interview. He oversees about $2 billion.
“We didn’t see it as a market-moving event. The market is
dealing with other issues.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net ;
Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  