-- Obama Proves No Carter in Romney Linkage as U.S. Favored
-- B y   R i c h   M i l l e r   a n d   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2012-07-06T13:25:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/obama-proves-no-carter-in-romney-linkage-as-investors-favor-u-s-.html
Mitt Romney  has suggested that
President  Barack Obama  has done a worse job managing the economy
than  Jimmy Carter . Investors disagree.  The  Standard & Poor’s  500 Index of stock prices has surged
70 percent under Obama, more than three times the 19 percent
increase seen during President Carter’s first 3-1/2 years in
office starting in 1977. The corporate and government bond
markets also have outperformed, with yields falling rather than
rising. And the  dollar  has fared better, dropping about 4
percent against major currencies since Obama took over, compared
with an almost 20 percent decline under Carter at a similar time
in his tenure.  “We were seen as the weak sister back then,” as the U.S.
struggled to free hostages seized by Iran from the American
embassy in Tehran, said  David Jones , the 74-year-old chief
executive officer of DMJ Advisors in Denver, Colorado. “Now
we’re the safe haven.”  Carter was swept out of office in 1980 by  Ronald Reagan ,
who outpolled the Democrat by an almost 10 percentage-point
margin. By comparing Obama to Carter, Romney is seeking to
replicate Reagan’s success in painting his opponent as a failure
on the economy. Obama leads Romney 48 percent to 44 percent in
the Gallup tracking poll conducted June 27 through July 3.  At a campaign stop in Chantilly, Virginia on May 2, the
presumptive Republican presidential nominee accused Obama of
running an administration that’s been the most antithetical to
small business since Carter’s.  “Who would guess that we’d look back on the Carter years
as the good old days?” asked Romney, the former Massachusetts
governor and private-equity executive.  Misery Index  They were anything but. The misery index, which combines
the  unemployment  and inflation rates, stood at 20.3 percent as
Americans went to the polls in November 1980, just below the
post-World War II high of 22 set in June of that year.  Foreign confidence in the U.S. was so low that Carter had
to issue U.S. government bonds denominated in German marks and
Swiss francs in 1978 to entice investors overseas into buying
them. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note stood at 12.4
percent at the end of 1980, up from 7.26 percent when Carter
took office almost four years before.  “The ’70s were far worse than what we are experiencing
now,” Laurence D. Fink, chairman and chief executive officer of
BlackRock Inc., the world’s biggest asset manager, said on
Bloomberg Television on July 3. “We had double-digit inflation
and you had high unemployment,” Fink, 59, added.  While Obama has acknowledged that the economy still has its
troubles, it is better off than it was back then. The misery
index stands at 9.9 percent, less than half the level in the
comparable 1980 period.  Consumer Prices  Although unemployment is higher -- 8.2 percent in May
versus 7.5 percent in May 1980 -- inflation is much lower.
Consumer prices are up 1.7 percent on a year-over-year basis,
versus 14.4 percent in 1980. Payrolls rose 80,000 last month
after a 77,000 increase in May, Labor Department figures showed
today in Washington. Economists projected a 100,000 gain,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey. The
 unemployment rate  held at 8.2 percent.  “It was a very difficult economy,” said Robert Stovall,
the 86-year-old managing director for Wood Asset Management in
Sarasota, Florida.  Now, foreign demand is helping to push the yield on the
Treasury’s 10-year note down: It stood at 1.6 percent at 4:30
p.m. in New York yesterday after falling to a record 1.44
percent on June 1.  Net foreign purchases of Treasuries rose by $21 billion to
a record $5.16 trillion in April, according to Treasury
Department data released on June 15.  Junk Bonds  Low yields on Treasuries are pushing investors into riskier
securities. The yield on junk-rated corporate bonds fell to 7.2
percent on July 3 from 23 percent in December 2008, just before
Obama took office, according to the Barclays U.S. High Yield
Index. Junk, or high-yield, securities are rated below Baa3 by
Moody’s Investors Service and less than BBB-by Standard &
Poor’s.  With the euro area racked by debt troubles, U.S.
securities are the safest bet for investors -- the “cleanest
dirty shirt” -- according to  Bill Gross , who runs the world’s
biggest bond fund at Pacific Investment Management Co. in
Newport Beach, California.  “Don’t underweight  Uncle Sam  in a debt crisis,” Gross,
68, wrote in his monthly investment outlook on June 28. “Money
seeking a safe haven will find it in America’s deep and liquid,
almost Aaa rated, bond and equity markets.”  In dollar terms, U.S. stocks have been the best performing
major equity market this year, with the S&P Index up almost 9
percent since the start of 2012.  Pimco Fund  Gross raised the proportion of U.S. government and Treasury
debt in Pimco’s $261 billion Total Return Fund to 35 percent in
May, the first increase since January and up from 31 percent of
its holdings in April, according to data on the company’s
website.  Federal Reserve policy has played a major role in the
relative performance of the  bond market  in the Obama and Carter
years. Seeking to curb rising inflation, then-Chairman  Paul Volcker  engineered a six percentage-point rise in the central
bank’s  target interest rate  in 1980, to 20 percent.  “The economy got just clobbered,” said Daniel Fuss, vice
chairman at Boston-based Loomis Sayles & Co., which manages
about $172 billion.  In contrast, “this time, the Fed has been enormously
accommodative,” the 78-year-old Fuss said.  Target Rate  Current Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  cut the target rate
almost to zero in December 2008 and has kept it there since in
order to revive the economy after the worst recession since the
Great Depression.  The trend in the economy also looks more favorable under
Obama than it did under Carter. Gross domestic product
contracted at an annual rate of 7.9 percent in the second
quarter of 1980 and 0.7 percent in the third quarter, after
expanding an average 4.2 percent in the previous 3-1/4 years of
Carter’s term.  The reverse has occurred under Obama. After shrinking 6.7
percent in the first quarter of 2009 as the president took
office and a further 0.7 percent in the subsequent quarter, the
economy has expanded by an average 2.4 percent, based on
Commerce Department data.  “The difference is Carter inherited a pretty good
situation and Obama inherited a terrible situation,” said
Christopher Wlezien, a political science professor at Temple
University in Philadelphia and co-author of the forthcoming book
“The Timeline of Presidential Elections.”  ‘Morning in America’  The economy’s performance this election year though doesn’t
measure up to what it was when Reagan and  Bill Clinton  ran for
second terms. In the first six months of 1984, GDP grew by an
average 7.6 percent. Reagan, proclaiming that it was “morning
in America,” won with 59 percent of the vote.  The economy expanded an average annual pace of almost 5
percent in the first half of 1996, helping Clinton to best
former Kansas Republican Senator  Bob Dole  by 8.5 percentage
points in the popular vote.  GDP expanded at a 1.9 percent rate in the first three
months of this year and is projected to have grown 2.1 percent
in quarter just ended on June 30, according to the median
forecast of 70 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News from June 1
to June 5.  That performance is more in line with what happened in the
first six months of 2004, when then President  George W. Bush  was
running for re-election. The economy in the first half of that
year rose at an average annual rate of just under 2.7 percent.
Bush won a second term, with 50.7 percent of the vote to 48.3
percent for Massachusetts Democratic Senator  John Kerry .  Gray Area  “If the economy during Carter’s re-election campaign
represents one extreme and the economy during Reagan or
Clinton’s re-election campaigns the other, then today’s economy
is probably somewhat of a political gray area,” said  Dan Schnur , a campaign adviser to Republican presidential candidate
 John McCain ’s first bid for the White House in 2000.  “Voters are neither happy nor satisfied about the state of
the economy, but they’re certainly not distraught,” said
Schnur, now director of the Unruh Institute of Politics at the
University of  Southern California  in  Los Angeles . “That makes
the economy an obstacle for Obama but not a disqualifier.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rich Miller in Washington at 
 rmiller28@bloomberg.net 
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net 
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  