-- Lockheed Gets Approval of Next F-35 Production Contract
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-07-06T20:56:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/lockheed-gets-approval-of-next-f-35-production-contract.html
Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  received
approval for a sixth production contract of F-35 aircraft, the
Pentagon’s largest weapons program.  Undersecretary for AcquisitionFrank Kendall in a two-page
Acquisition Decision Memo yesterday approved proceeding with the
next contract for as many as 36 aircraft, including 23 Air Force
versions, seven aircraft carrier models and six Marine Corps
short-takeoff and vertical-landing models. The contract includes
five for international customers.  Kendall approved a strategy that “bases aircraft
procurement quantities upon development and test progress” as
well as progress Lockheed Martin makes reducing the cost to
retrofit aircraft to correct deficiencies uncovered in flight
tests.  Shares of Lockheed Martin fell 14 cents for the day to
$86.86 at the close of  New York  trading, after rising from
$86.44 before Kendall’s approval was reported.  The steps are the latest efforts to control costs for the
$395.7 billion acquisition program. The first four contracts for
63 jets are exceeding their combined target cost by $1 billion,
according to congressional auditors.  “This strategy provides a means to have control on
production that is informed by demonstrated performance”
against this year’s program goals, Kendall wrote.  Control Strategy  Under the plan, the Pentagon F-35 program office could
proceed with putting under contract 25 of the 31 U.S. planes
Kendall authorized. Six wouldn’t be put on contract until the
Bethesda, Maryland-based company meets at least five criteria.  “This strategy provides a means to have control -- a dial
-- on production that is informed by demonstrated performance
against the 2012 plan,” the F-35 program manager, Vice Admiral
David Venlet, told the House Armed Services Committee in May,
previewing the strategy Kendall approved.  It also seeks a reduction in the “concurrency,” or
overlap between production and testing, that has forced
retrofits when problems cropped up, he said.  Venlet said the program’s parallel development and
production have resulted in aircraft retrofits that “are very
real and affect schedule and cost in hardware, software, test
and production.”  The overlap will decline as the program approaches the end
of development in 2016, he said.  Controlling Costs  A fifth contract remains under negotiation. Kendall wrote
that his decision for the sixth contract going forward was
contingent on him receiving an update on a “recommended
agreement” for the fifth contract.  The F-35’s total acquisition cost has increased 70 percent,
to $395.7 billion in April from $233 billion in late 2001 when
the development phase began. The costs are calculated in
comparable, inflation-adjusted “then-year dollars.”  The program’s projected “life cycle cost” -- including
development since 1994, production of 2,443 jets and 55 years of
support -- increased to $1.51 trillion from $1.38 trillion in
2010, Pentagon officials told reporters March 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  