-- Crude Declines for Second Day After Employment Report
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u   a n d   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2012-07-06T19:11:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/oil-drops-for-second-day-on-smaller-than-expected-jobs-increase.html
Oil fell for a second day after a
report showed U.S. employers hired fewer workers than forecast
in June, increasing concern that slower economic growth will
reduce demand for oil.  Oil slipped after the Labor Department said payrolls rose
80,000, less than the 100,000 increase forecast by economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. The  International Monetary Fund  will
reduce its estimate for global growth this year, Managing
Director  Christine Lagarde  said.  “Coming in at 80,000, that’s very disappointing and you
are seeing  oil prices  decline on it,” said Phil Streible, a
Chicago-based commodities broker at RJO Futures. “The  U.S.
economy  is really stagnant right now and there will be no new
increase in oil demand whatsoever.”  Oil for August delivery fell $2.77, or 3.2 percent, to
settle at $84.45 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .
Crude, which fell 0.6 percent this week, is down 15 percent this
year. The weekly decline was the eighth in 10 weeks.  Brent oil for August declined $2.51, or 2.5 percent, to
settle at $98.19 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures  Europe 
exchange.  Private employment, which excludes government agencies,
increased 84,000, the weakest performance in 10 months.  “The market is taking the jobs number negatively,” said
Jason Schenker, president of Prestige Economics LLC, an Austin,
Texas-based energy consultant. “The numbers were below the
consensus but probably not bad enough to trigger a third round
of quantitative easing.”  The  unemployment rate  held at 8.2 percent in June, matching
the median estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Slower Growth  “The global growth outlook will be somewhat less than we
anticipated just three months ago,” Lagarde said in a speech in
 Tokyo . “And even that lower projection will depend on the right
policy actions being taken.”  The new outlook will be announced in 10 days, after an
April estimate of 3.5 percent, she said. The IMF has lowered its
U.S. growth estimate to 2 percent from April’s 2.1 percent.  The “key  emerging markets ” of Brazil, China and India are
showing signs of slowdown, Lagarde said. Those three countries
along with  Russia  will comprise more than 20 percent of the
world economy this year, according to IMF data.  Oil consumption in the U.S., the world’s largest user, will
drop for a second year in 2012, the Energy Department said last
month in its Short-Term Energy Outlook. Demand in Europe will
also decline both this year and next, the department said.  ‘Weaker Demand’  ‘The market is just reacting to the bad jobs numbers,’’
said  Phil Flynn , senior market analyst at the Price Futures
Group in  Chicago . “Weaker demand goes with slower economic
growth.”  Prices also followed declines in equities and the euro. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell as much as 1.4 percent and the
euro weakened to a two-year low against the dollar. A weaker
euro and stronger dollar reduce oil’s appeal as an investment
alternative.  “The dollar has been strengthening in the last couple days
on the actions of central banks overseas, which is also
weakening oil,” Schenker said.  Oil also fell on speculation that Norway’s government will
stop a strike by energy workers after Labor Minister Hanne Bjurstrom told striking oil workers to resume talks with
employers to resolve a strike that has helped push Brent oil
above $100 this week for the first time since June 11.  Oil Loss  The action has led to the loss of 2.58 million barrels of
crude, Jan Hodneland, chief negotiator of the industry
association, said by phone yesterday from Stavanger.  “Production will come back to normal if they stop the
strike,” said  James Williams , an economist at WTRG Economics,
an energy-research firm in London,  Arkansas . “The jobs report
is very bearish.”  Oil may rise next week as U.S. inventories fell the most in
six months, a Bloomberg survey showed. Crude  stockpiles 
decreased 4.27 million barrels last week, the biggest decline
since Dec. 16, the Energy Department reported yesterday.  Thirteen of 27 analysts, or 48 percent, forecast crude
prices will increase through July 13. Eleven respondents, or 41
percent, predicted that futures will drop and three said there
will be little change in prices.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 456,570
contracts as of 3:10 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 675,430
contracts yesterday, 19 percent above the three-month average.
Open interest was 1.42 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in  New York  at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net 
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  