-- Old Master Stolen by Red Army Returns Home to Potsdam
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2012-07-06T12:19:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/old-master-stolen-by-red-army-returns-home-to-potsdam.html
A Baroque painting of the murdered
John the Baptist that belonged to Frederick the Great of Prussia
will return to Potsdam almost 70 years after a Red Army officer
stole it from storage in a palace near Berlin.  The painting is a contemporaneous copy of the 1624-1625
original by Peter Paul Rubens, which shows the head of John the
Baptist with the murderous Salome and a servant, according to
the Foundation for Prussian Palaces and Gardens. The U.S.
ambassador to  Germany , Philip D. Murphy, will hand it over in a
return ceremony at  Sanssouci palace  in Potsdam on July 11.  After World War II, the painting disappeared to the  Soviet
Union  and only resurfaced when a private consignor took it to
auction in the U.S. about 18 months ago, the foundation said.
The painting was identified with the help of the Art Loss
Register database and impounded by the U.S.  Department of
 Homeland Security . The consignor agreed to return it.  “This restitution fills another gap in the sad recent
history of this significant royal collection,” Hartmut
Dorgerloh, the director of the  Foundation for Prussian Palaces
and Gardens , said in a statement sent by e-mail.  “It’s also an important find for Rubens researchers, as
this version of the painting was only known through a black-and-
white photograph for the past 60 years,” he said.  The original Rubens painting is lost, the foundation said,
though there are further copies of it in Dresden and the U.K.
The Potsdam version was housed in Frederick the Great’s ornate,
gilded picture gallery at Sanssouci from 1764, making it part of
the original collection.  Of the 159 paintings that hung in Frederick’s gallery
before the war, 89 are still missing, Samuel Wittwer, the art
historian in charge of the collection, said by telephone.  The Foundation for Prussian Palaces and Gardens, which
manages Sanssouci and other similar sites, is still missing as
many as 4,000 paintings lost in World War II.  Muse highlights include  Zinta Lundborg’s   New York  weekend,
 Craig Seligman  on the arts.  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 