-- Monti Cabinet Backs Spending Cuts to Replace Higher Taxes
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o   a n d   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2012-07-06T10:19:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/monti-cabinet-passes-26-billion-euro-spending-cuts-through-2014.html
Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti 
replaced a looming sales-tax increase with a package of spending
cuts, seeking to counter rising anger over the government’s
demand for revenue.  Monti’s Cabinet approved 26 billion euros ($32 billion) of
spending cuts over the next three years to delay for at least a
year an increase in the value-added  tax rate  to 23 from 21, the
prime minister’s office said in an e-mailed  statement  after a
seven-hour meeting in  Rome  that ended at 1 a.m.  “This is the typical ’Italian-style’ reform that offloads
the biggest chunk of the planned cuts onto the next
government,” said Alberto Mingardi, head of the pro-free market
Bruno Leoni research center in Turin. “The VAT increase is put
back to July next year when this government won’t be in power
anymore”  The plan comes as Monti tries to bring down surging bond
yields by convincing investors he can reduce the euro-region’s
second-biggest debt without relying too heavily tax increases.
The latest round of spending cuts comes a month after a property
levy was imposed, stoking nationwide protests.  The reductions would include 4.5 billion euros this year,
10 billion euros next year and 11.5 billion euros in 2014. With
 Italy  mired in its second recession since 2009, the government
was determined to find enough savings to put off the sales tax
increase slated for October that was included by Monti in a
December austerity package.  “The tax increase would have had serious consequences on
the economy,” Deputy Finance Minister Vittorio Grill said.
“This acted as a powerful incentive for the government, which
stood united in this goal.”  Recession Deepening  The government expects the economy to  shrink  1.2 percent
this year, while employers lobby Confindustria predicts a 2.4
percent contraction. The  yield  on Italy’s 10-year bond rose 8
basis points to 6.05 percent as of 12:15 a.m. in Rome.  The “measures are expected to be neutral on public
finances as additional savings will be mainly used to offset
expected indirect tax shortfalls,” Fabio Fois, a European
economist at  Barclays Capital (JNK)  in  London , wrote in a note to
investors.  The spending review is “a continuing maintenance
exercise,” Grilli said. Former  Parmalat SpA (PLT)  Chief Executive
Officer  Enrico Bondi , who was appointed by Monti in May as a
special commissioner for the program, will help the government
seek another 6 billion euros in savings to cancel the sales tax
increase altogether, the Deputy Finance Minister said.  Government Cuts  The package cuts the budget of the central government by
7.5 billion euros through 2014, trims health care and reduces
transfers to regions by 2.7 billion euros in the next 2 ½ years.
The central and local governments will also have to reduce staff
by 10 percent and senior staff by 20 percent. The number of
provincial administrations will be trimmed by half to about 50
by the end of 2012. The measure was passed by decree, allowing
it to take effect immediately.  “The measures aim at reducing excessive public spending
while raising the administrations’ productivity without harming
the level of services provided,” Monti told reporters at a
press conference.  Italy’s two biggest unions have already threatened to
strike over the cuts.  “Protests against this plan may take place, but we hope
that the need for a reduction of public spending is a shared
goal,” Monti said.  Monti said that the savings will generate 2 billion euros
of funds for the reconstruction of the northern region of Emilia
Romagna that was hit by two fatal earthquakes in May. The plan
will also free up money to cover an additional 1.2 billion euros
for 55,000 retirees who were left without a pension after the
 retirement age  was raised in December.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net ;
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  