-- China Stocks Climb Most in Week as Rate Cut Aids Builders
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2012-07-06T07:42:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/most-chinese-stocks-rise-after-central-bank-cuts-interest-rates.html
China’s stocks  rose, sending the
benchmark index to its biggest advance in a week, as developers
and industrial companies gained on the central bank’s second
interest-rate cut in a month, overshadowing losses by banks.  The  Shanghai  Composite Index climbed 1 percent to 2,223.58
at the close, after slumping as much as 0.7 percent. The index
changed direction at least 10 times as trading volume was 27
percent higher than the 10-day average. A gauge of property
companies rallied 3.5 percent, the most among the five groups,
followed by industrial companies.  “In the morning, there was still panic, as the rate cuts
exemplified concerns the economy may be worse off,” said Zhou
Lin, an analyst at Huatai Securities Co. “This is a worry
that’s been going on in everyone’s mind. In the afternoon,
investors started to calm down and think things are not that
bad.”  China  Vanke Co. and Sany Heavy Industry Co.  climbed  more
than 3 percent as Citigroup Inc. said liberalizing lending rates
will boost capital-intensive companies.  Industrial & Commercial
Bank of China (601398)  Ltd. dropped 1 percent as Barclays Plc said the
rate reductions may cut lenders’ average net income by as much
as 54 percent next year.  The People’s Bank of China yesterday lowered the benchmark
one-year lending rate by 0.31 percentage point and one-year
deposit rate by 0.25 percentage point, effective today. The rate
cut comes before data next week that may show the economy grew
at the slowest quarterly pace since 2009.  Global Stimulus  The Shanghai measure slipped 0.1 percent this week, capping
a third week of losses. The PBOC cut was followed by the
 European Central Bank  which reduced its  main rate  by 25 basis
points to a record low of 0.75 percent and said it will no
longer pay anything on overnight deposits as sovereign debt
turmoil threatens to drive the 17-nation euro economy into
recession. Earlier in the day, the  Bank of England  raised the
size of its asset-purchase program.  “The lending rate liberalization implies lower cost of
capital, and capital intensive sectors should gain from the
policy move,” Citigroup said, referring to property,
infrastructure, capital goods, utility and transportation.  Sany Heavy, the biggest machinery maker, gained 3.3 percent
to 13.14  yuan , the most since May 28. Zoomlion Heavy Industry
Science and Technology Co., the second largest, jumped 5 percent
to 9.70 yuan.  Developers Rally  A gauge of developers in the Shanghai index surged the most
since March 2. China Vanke gained 3.9 percent to 9.65 yuan and
Poly Real Estate added 5 percent to 12.82 yuan. Investors and
speculators will increasingly re-enter the  property market  after
the rate cut and housing prices will rise over the next few
months, Credit Suisse said.  The PBOC signaled the government isn’t relaxing property
restrictions. “All financial institutions must continue to
strictly implement a differentiated housing credit policy to
continue curbing property buying for speculation and investment
purposes,” the central bank said in its rate statement.  A gauge of  consumer staples producers  in the CSI 300 jumped
4.1 percent, the most among 10 industry groups. Kweichow Moutai
Co. , China’s biggest producer of baijiu liquor, rose 3.3
percent to a record high of 259.99 yuan. Wuliangye Yibin Co.,
the second largest, advanced 7.6 percent to 35.01 yuan.  Defensive Stocks  Investors should get defensive and move out of stocks that
are most tied to economic growth, said Hao Hong, head of Chinese
research at Bank of Communications Co. in  Hong Kong .  Economists surveyed by Bloomberg expect the world’s second-
largest economy to have grown 7.8 percent in the second quarter,
the slowest pace since 2009. China’s GDP data is scheduled to be
released on July 13.  UBS AG said there are downside risks to its economic growth
forecasts for China. June economic data will show second-quarter
growth of below 7 percent quarter-on-quarter and 7.6 percent
year-on-year, the lowest since the first quarter of 2009,  Tao
Wang , an economist at UBS, said in a July 4 report.  Citic Heavy Industries Co., the heavy machinery unit of
China’s largest conglomerate, rose 2.6 percent from its offer
price to 4.79 yuan on the first day of trading in Shanghai
today.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese companies in the U.S. rose 0.8 percent at yesterday’s
close in  New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  