-- Most Greeks Support Samaras’s Coalition Government, Poll Shows
-- B y   N a t a l i e   W e e k s
-- 2012-07-06T21:01:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/most-greeks-support-samaras-s-coalition-government-poll-shows.html
A majority of Greeks say the
formation of a coalition government under Prime Minister Antonis Samaras is a positive development, according to the findings of
the first poll released since the June 17 elections.  Of the 801 people surveyed, 57 percent said they supported
the coalition government compared with 36 percent who said it’s
a negative development, according to an e-mailed copy of the
Metron Analysis poll from Athens-based Ependytis newspaper.
Fifty-five percent said Samaras as premier is a positive, with
39 percent saying it was a negative development.  Samaras, leader of the New Democracy party, formed a
coalition government with the socialist Pasok party and
Democratic Left after finishing first in the country’s second
election on June 17. The vote came after an inconclusive May 6
election that raised concerns  Greece  may be forced to leave the
euro area.  Almost one in two respondents, or 48 percent, said Greece
should stick and work to improve terms agreed in return for
bailout funds from the European Union and  International Monetary
Fund . The same number said the bailout should be canceled as the
policies have failed.  Samaras was the second-most popular political party leader
with 52 percent of respondents saying they have a positive view
of him. Democratic Left leader Fotis Kouvelis was the most
popular with 66 percent holding a positive view of him.  Forty-six percent of Greeks believe the coalition will last
as long as two years, while 48 percent said the country will go
to elections again soon.  The poll was conducted between July 3 and July 4. No margin
of error was given.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Weeks in Athens at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  