-- How Abraham Lincoln Helped Shape Modern U.S. Economy
-- B y   M a r c   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-07-06T17:10:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/how-abraham-lincoln-helped-shape-modern-u-s-economy.html
This month marks 150 years since
President  Abraham Lincoln  signed the Pacific Railway Act,
committing the federal government to support a
transcontinental railroad. The federally subsidized
construction of the Union Pacific and the Central Pacific,
culminating in the driving of the famous golden spike in
Utah in 1869, was an epic achievement, cutting weeks off
the travel time between the East and  California , and truly
knitting the continent together.  Although the railroad between Omaha and Sacramento did
much to boost national unity and economic growth, it wasn’t
a boon for everyone. Like any economic change, it created
losers as well as winners.  Nineteenth-century politicians understood full well
that it would do so. That’s why construction began only in
1863 and not, say, 1844, when Asa Whitney offered Congress
the first proposal for a railroad to the Pacific coast.
Whitney, a  New York  merchant, wanted to build a railroad to
current-day Oregon or Washington, to advance trade with
Hawaii and Japan. His price was steep: He wanted the
government to sell him a strip of land stretching 30 miles
on either side of the railroad -- 78 million acres -- at a
paltry 10 cents  an acre.  But Whitney’s plan to place the eastern terminus on
the thinly populated shore of Lake Michigan between what is
now Evanston,  Illinois , and Green Bay,  Wisconsin , was a
political nonstarter, because people in other states saw
little benefit in a railroad originating in Wisconsin
Territory.  Going West  Among Whitney’s most influential critics was Senator
Thomas Hart Benton of  Missouri . Benton was a rabid advocate
of western expansion, but not Whitney’s kind. Benton
envisioned a mile-wide “national central road” to San
Francisco, starting in  St. Louis . This strip was to have
room for a railroad, but Benton wanted to ensure there
would be “a plain old English road,” as he put it, “in
which the farmer in his wagon or carriage, on horse or on
foot, may travel without fear, and without tax.” Benton’s
project, of course, would have been a boon for St. Louis,
far and away the largest city west of the  Mississippi  --
and, by no coincidence, his hometown.  Neither of these projects had much appeal in the
South. One group of Southerners proposed a line starting in
Vidalia,  Louisiana , and running to San Diego. Another plan
put the eastern terminus across from Vicksburg,
Mississippi, 75 river miles north of Natchez. Sam Houston,
then a senator from the new state of  Texas , favored a line
from Galveston, on the  Gulf of Mexico , to San Diego. A
convention in Memphis issued a ringing endorsement of a
transcontinental route that would begin in -- Memphis.  The discovery of gold in California in 1848 made
Whitney’s plan obsolete, but all the other routes remained
in the running. To resolve the matter, in 1853 Congress
directed the secretary of the army, Jefferson Davis, to
study the options.  Davis, a Mississippian, was already on record as
favoring a Southern route, and in 1853 he promoted the
Gadsden Purchase, the federal acquisition of a piece of
Mexican desert that offered the most convenient route
between the South and California. Davis sent expeditions to
examine several routes, and in 1855 concluded that a
Southern route would be the most economical.  Chicago Gamble  Not all Southern politicians concurred.  New Orleans 
officials favored a much shorter railroad across southern
 Mexico , with steamboat connections to California at the
Pacific end and, on the Gulf of Mexico side, to New
Orleans. Officials in  Virginia  and  South Carolina  preferred
no transcontinental railroad at all, lest it divert cargo
and passengers that would otherwise travel from their ports
by ship. Congress took no action.  The decisive step was a gamble by investors in the
young but fast-growing city of Chicago. Envisioning their
city as the commercial hub of the West, they began building
a single-track wooden swing bridge across the Mississippi
River between Rock Island, Illinois, and Davenport,  Iowa  in
1853.  The bridge was hugely controversial, opposed both by
Southerners and by steamboat operators. A steamboat
collided with the bridge and set it afire, perhaps
deliberately, soon after it opened in 1856, and the courts
spent years hearing cases about whether the bridge unfairly
interfered with river traffic. With help from an Illinois
lawyer named Abraham Lincoln, the Chicagoans were able to
push their railroad clear across Iowa to the Missouri
River.  When the Southern states seceded from the Union after
Lincoln’s election as president in 1860, their senators and
representatives left Congress, and hopes that the first
transcontinental railroad would serve the South went with
them.  The Pacific Railway Act, adopted after the Southerners
walked out, specified a route through northern  Kansas  or
the southern part of Nebraska Territory, leaving it to
Lincoln to choose the Missouri River terminus. He could
have directed the railroad southeast to Atchison or
Leavenworth or  Kansas City . All of those routes would have
funneled the California trade to St. Louis. Instead,
Lincoln chose Omaha, where, via a ferry across the
Missouri, there was a rail connection over the Mississippi
River bridge at Rock Island direct to Chicago.  The rest, as they say, is history. Chicago would
become the distribution center for half a continent, its
wholesalers serving markets a thousand miles away, its
stockyards receiving cattle and hogs from across the West,
its railway connections making it the natural home for
mail-order merchants like Sears, Roebuck and Co. and
Montgomery Ward. Less populous than St. Louis in 1860,
Chicago would be three times its size by the end of the
century.  Natchez and Vicksburg, their economic base ravaged by
the Civil War and the end of slavery, would capture none of
the growing western trade. And Memphis, having missed out
on the transcontinental railroad, was left with its main
rail links running north and south. Those made it a
regional center for dealing cotton and lumber, but the
great wealth created by the California trade never did come
its way.  ( Marc Levinson ’s most recent book is “The Great A&P
and the Struggle for  Small Business  in America.” The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more Echoes columns  online .  To contact the writer of this post: Marc Levinson at
 marclevinson1@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this post: Timothy
Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 