-- Payrolls in U.S. Rose 80,000 in June; Jobless Rate 8.2%
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-07-06T20:11:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/payrolls-in-u-s-rose-80-000-in-june-jobless-rate-at-8-2-.html
American employers added fewer
workers to payrolls than forecast in June and the jobless rate
stayed at 8.2 percent as the economic outlook dimmed.  The 80,000 gain in employment followed a 77,000 increase in
May, Labor Department figures showed today in Washington.
Economists projected a 100,000 rise, according to the median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey. Growth in private payrolls
was the weakest in 10 months.  Stocks fell on concern hiring has shifted into a lower
gear, restricting  consumer spending  and leaving the economy more
vulnerable to a global slowdown. The figures underscore concern
among some Federal Reserve policy makers that growth isn’t fast
enough to lower unemployment stuck above 8 percent since
February 2009.  “The job market is soft,” said  David Resler , chief
economic adviser at Nomura Securities International Inc., who
correctly forecast the payrolls gain. “I’d characterize our
reaction as much the same way the Fed will react -- not
surprised but disappointed. It’s just not the kind of growth we
need to see at this stage in the business cycle.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 0.9 percent to
1,354.68 at the close in New York. The yield on the benchmark
10-year Treasury note declined to 1.55 percent from 1.60 percent
late yesterday.  Private Employment  “What we are seeing today from an income perspective is
our economy is modestly adding jobs,”  Robert Hull , chief
financial officer at Lowe’s Cos., the second-largest U.S. home-
improvement retailer, said at a June 26 consumer conference in
 Boston . “That’s the good news. The bad news is it’s not
sufficient to have a material impact on the  unemployment rate .”  Private payrolls increased 84,000 in June after a revised
gain of 105,000 that was larger than initially reported. They
were projected to advance by 106,000 in June, the survey showed.
Last month’s change in private payrolls reflected a 2,000
increase in  education  and health services that was the smallest
in almost two years.  At the same time, an increase in hours worked along with a
pickup in wages last month indicate demand may hold up and keep
the economy expanding. While companies may put off adding more
workers to payrolls because of Europe’s debt crisis, gains in
spending may be prompting them to ask their employees to put in
a longer workweek.  The unemployment rate, derived from a separate survey of
households, was forecast to hold at 8.2 percent, according to
the Bloomberg survey  median .  Underemployment Rate  The so-called underemployment rate -- which includes part-
time workers who’d prefer a full-time position and people who
want work but have given up looking -- increased to 14.9 percent
from 14.8 percent.  Among those having trouble finding full-time work is  Dave
Marshall  of Tampa,  Florida . The 23-year-old Army reservist, who
works part time for two security firms in the area, said he has
been unable to find a job that utilizes his degree in sociology
from the University of Florida in Gainesville.  “I am getting edged out by people with experience,”
Marshall said. “There have been some entry-level positions that
I have applied for, but the economy is so bad that the people
who have been let go are also applying for entry-level positions
and a lot of them have two, three years of experience.”  Nicole Sandler, 52, lost her job at Air America in January
2010 when the radio station closed. She was ineligible for
 unemployment benefits  because she was a contractor.  Temporary Jobs  Sandler moved in with her fiance in Coral Springs, Florida,
in April 2011 when she lost her house in Miami. She gets about
$1,000 a month from a webcast she puts together five nights a
week and takes temporary radio jobs when she can get them.  “I work but I’m still technically unemployed,” said
Sandler. “I guess I could try to find a job doing something
else, but at 52 to take an entry-level job I may as well do what
I’m doing. What am I going to do, work in a supermarket?”  Today’s report deprived President  Barack Obama  of progress
on voters’ overriding concern with just four months before the
election.  Obama, speaking at a campaign stop in  Poland ,  Ohio , called
the addition of new jobs “a step in the right direction”
though the economy has to grow “even faster.”  Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  called the
report “another kick in the gut.”  ‘Stand Up’  “The president’s policies have not gotten America working
again, and the president is going to have to stand up and take
responsibility for it,” Romney said at a hardware store in
Wolfeboro, New Hampshire, where he’s vacationing this week.  While Romney has suggested that Obama has done a worse job
managing the economy than President  Jimmy Carter , investors have
given the U.S. a vote of confidence.  The  S&P 500  surged 70 percent under Obama through
yesterday, more than three times the 19 percent increase during
Carter’s first 3-1/2 years in office starting in 1977.  Although unemployment is higher than the 7.5 percent level
in May 1980, inflation is lower. Consumer prices rose 1.7 in May
from a year earlier, compared with a 14.4 percent increase in
May 1980.  Still, joblessness has exceeded 8 percent since February
2009, the longest such stretch since monthly records began in
1948.  Only one president since World War II,  Ronald Reagan , has
stayed in office with a jobless rate above 6 percent. Reagan won
a second term in 1984 with 7.2 percent unemployment in the month
of the election; the rate had fallen almost three percentage
points in the previous 18 months.  Staples Inc.  Companies like Staples Inc. aren’t anticipating lower
jobless rates anytime soon.  “I don’t think we’re waiting around and holding our breath
for that in the retail space,” Michael Miles, chief operating
officer at the Framingham, Massachusetts-based office-supply
retailer, said at a June 27 investor conference.  Today’s report showed employment at service providers
increased 67,000 in June after a 98,000 gain, today’s report
showed. Construction companies added 2,000 workers, while
retailers cut 5,400 jobs.  Uncertainty about the U.S. government’s fiscal outlook may
still be hampering hiring plans. Congress has yet to resolve the
so-called fiscal cliff, which represents more than $600 billion
in higher taxes and reductions in defense and other government
programs in 2013 that will take place without action.  European Unemployment  Across the Atlantic, joblessness in the 17-nation euro area
rose to 11.1 percent in May, the highest in records that begin
in 1995, from 11 percent a month earlier, data showed this week.  “It is pretty clear that a lot of what is slowing the
economy down are fears of financial catastrophe and what’s going
on in Europe,”  Austan Goolsbee , former chairman of the White
House Council of Economic Advisers under Obama, said on
Bloomberg Television.  Today’s report showed  factory payrolls  in the U.S.
increased by 11,000, more than the survey forecast of a 7,000
increase and following a 9,000 increase in the previous month.
Government payrolls decreased by 4,000.  Manufacturing is getting a boost from rising demand for new
cars. Auto sales accelerated to a 14.1 million seasonally
adjusted annualized rate in June, according to researcher
Autodata Corp., completing the best first half since 2008.  New Models  “We’re seeing strong demand for our current products as
well as our new models,”  Bill Krueger , vice chairman of the
Americas for Nissan Motor Co., said today in a telephone
interview. He said the company will add a shift to its Tennessee
plant to meet demand.  In a bright spot for American workers, average hourly
earnings rose to $23.50 from $23.44 in the prior month, today’s
report showed. The average work week climbed six minutes to 34.5
hours.  The number of temporary workers increased 25,200 in June
after an 18,600 rise.  At the Fed, the slowdown in both economic and employment
growth prompted officials to take additional steps to stimulate
the expansion. The  Federal Open Market Committee  on June 20
extended Operation Twist to the end of the year. The program
aims to push down long-term borrowing costs on everything from
mortgages to  car loans  by extending the maturity of assets on
the Fed’s balance sheet.  Concern Expressed  “This is going to be read as in line with the concern that
they expressed about the labor market,” said Roberto Perli,
managing director of policy research at International Strategy &
Investment Group in Washington, who formerly worked in the Fed’s
Division of Monetary Affairs. “It probably doesn’t contain any
incremental information that leads them to believe that the
situation is worse than they thought.”  At an April 25 press conference, Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said job growth of about 100,000 a month is needed to
keep the jobless rate stable, and increases of 150,000 to
200,000 are needed to reduce it.  Policy makers last month also downgraded their outlook for
jobs and growth, saying they anticipate the unemployment rate
will average 8 percent to 8.2 percent in the fourth quarter of
this year versus an April estimate of 7.8 percent to 8 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  