-- Pennsylvania Voter ID Law May Bar 9% From Presidential Election
-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 2012-07-06T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/pennsylvania-voter-id-law-may-bar-9-from-presidential-election.html
Three-quarters of a million
Pennsylvanians may be denied a chance to vote in November unless
they can come up with an acceptable form of identification, a
tally released by the state suggests.  In a move lawmakers said would deter fraud at the polls,
the Republican-led Legislature passed a law in March requiring
voters to have a photo ID to obtain a ballot. A comparison of
registration lists and state Transportation Department records
showed 758,939 people don’t have either a driver’s license or an
alternative state ID, the secretary of the commonwealth said.  Backed by Governor Tom Corbett, a Republican, the law was
enacted as similar measures in Republican-led states drew
criticism from Democrats who say they disenfranchise minority,
poor and young voters. Those groups have tended to support
Democrats. A voter ID law in  Texas  has been blocked by the U.S.
 Justice Department , while in  Florida , which also has a photo ID
requirement, federal officials have sued to halt state attempts
to bar non-citizens from voting.  “There is a real risk that poor people and minority
voters, among others, will be discouraged from participating,”
said Daniel Tokaji, who teaches at  Ohio State University ’s law
school in Columbus and helps direct its election-law center.
“These laws are likely to have a greater impact on Democratic-
leaning groups of voters. It’s pretty obvious that’s why
Democrats oppose these laws, and Republicans support them.”  Swing State  In Pennsylvania, unless voters have an acceptable
alternative, such as a military ID, or obtain an ID before Nov.
6, as much as 9 percent of the state’s electorate may be denied
a chance to cast a ballot in the presidential election. The
swing state went for President  Barack Obama , a Democrat, 55
percent to 44 percent for Republican  John McCain  in 2008.  Almost 25 percent, or 186,830, of those who lack a driver’s
license or an alternative transportation department ID are
registered to vote in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania’s largest city
by population, according to the state. Obama won 83 percent of
the city’s vote in 2008. He carried the state by 620,478 votes,
fewer than the number who may be barred from the polls Nov. 6.  Republicans taking control or boosting majorities in state
capitols drove “more restrictive” election laws, Tokaji said
yesterday by telephone. At the start of 2011, as legislatures
elected in November 2010 took their seats, only Georgia and
 Indiana  required a photo ID to vote, according to the  National
Conference of State Legislatures  in Denver.  Spreading Requirement  By November, at least 30 states will  require  voters to show
identification to obtain a ballot, according to the conference,
a nonprofit research organization. Most won’t require a photo
ID. Three more --  Mississippi ,  New Hampshire  and Wisconsin--
have enacted such laws and are in varying stages of implementing
them or litigating challenges.  Court action has barred enforcement of such laws in
 Wisconsin  and Texas, where the Justice Department blocked a
voter ID measure under the Voting Rights Act. The agency said
the Texas statute would have a discriminatory effect on
minorities. A South Carolina law that revised an earlier photo
ID requirement was also rejected under the Voting Rights Act.  In Pennsylvania, the  American Civil Liberties Union   sued  in
state court to overturn the law. State Representative Frank Dermody of Oakmont, the Democratic leader in the House, wrote to
U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder July 2 asking him to block the
statute. Dermody said it is designed “to suppress the vote of
traditionally Democratic constituencies, such as minorities, the
elderly and individuals with disabilities.”  Contacting Voters  Carol Aichele, Pennsylvania’s secretary of state, said all
voters who aren’t in the transportation department’s database
will receive letters informing them of the law and how to get
free identification cards so they can vote. Dermody said to get
the state ID, voters need documents proving who they are, and
cited examples of several residents who haven’t been able to
obtain birth certificates or other acceptable papers.  “The goal of this law is to allow every legal voter to
cast a ballot, but detect and deter anyone attempting to vote
illegally,” Aichele said in a statement. Acceptable forms of
identification can be from accredited  Pennsylvania  colleges,
state care facilities, U.S. passports and government employers.  Proponents of the law “have been unable to produce a
scintilla of evidence that voter fraud -- and particularly voter
impersonation fraud -- is a problem in Pennsylvania,” Dermody
said in his letter to Holder. “We need your help to protect the
most sacred right we have as American citizens -- the right to
vote.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  