-- Petrobras Seeks to Stem Fuel Losses by Adding Ethanol
-- B y   M a r i o   S e r g i o   L i m a
-- 2012-07-06T14:42:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/petrobras-stems-fuel-losses-by-adding-ethanol-corporate-brazil.html
Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  plans to stem
losses from fuel imports using cheaper Brazilian-made biofuels
as analysts forecast profit will decline to an eight-year low.  Petrobras, as the company is known, is asking the
government to let it mix more sugarcane-based ethanol into its
gasoline, two officials with knowledge of the discussions, who
asked not to be identified because the matter isn’t public, said
June 29. The move would help halt losses estimated at $375
million as refinery shortages force the company to import fuel.  Chief Executive Officer Maria das Gracas Foster obtained
permission from the government, which controls Petrobras’s
board, for a fuel price increase on June 15 to reduce the
discount to international prices. She started meeting last month
with analysts and investors in Rio de Janeiro,  New York  and
 London  to explain how the company will fund $236.5 billion of
investments over five years and more than double oil production
by 2020.  “ Brazil  just hasn’t got enough refineries to produce
gasoline to meet internal demand,” Erick Scott Hood, an analyst
at SLW Corretora, said by telephone from Sao Paulo. “If
Petrobras reduces gas imports and keeps oil exports at current
levels, it has a bigger chance of boosting profits.”  Petrobras is the second-worst performer among major oil
producers this year, losing 14 percent for investors as
 Colombia ’s  Ecopetrol SA (ECOPETL)  and  China ’s  CNOOC Ltd. (883)  returned 37
percent and 17 percent, respectively, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. lost 15 percent.  Petrobras shares slid 1.6 percent to 19.29 reais at 11:34
a.m. in  Sao Paulo , matching a decline by Brazil’s Bovespa index.  Profit Slide  The company will report second-quarter net income of 3.9
billion reais ($1.9 billion), according to the average  estimate 
in a Bloomberg survey. That would be the worst  result  since the
second quarter of 2004, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Net income slid 16 percent in the first quarter to 9.2 billion
reais from 11 billion reais a year earlier.  The request to increase ethanol levels would reverse a
government decision last year after a drop in output of the
biofuel pushed up fuel prices and threatened to stoke inflation.  Brazilian authorities are considering the request and
reviewing if there’s enough ethanol supply to increase the
mandate, said the two officials.  Fuel imports climbed 46 percent in the first quarter to
406,000 barrels a day from the year earlier, according to
information on Petrobras’s website.  Rising imports will probably reduce earnings by 750 million
reais this year as the company is often forced to buy the fuel
abroad for more than it’s allowed to sell it for in Brazil, said
 Adriano Pires , head of consulting firm Brazilian Center for
Infrastructure.  Pare Imports  Under the proposal being considered by the government, the
ethanol mix in gasoline would be increased to 25 percent from 20
percent, according to the government officials. In August, the
government cut the mandate to 20 percent from 25 percent. A 5
percentage-point increase in the mix would pare Petrobras
gasoline imports by as much as 40 percent, Pires said.  Petrobras’s refineries have been selling fuel at a discount
to average prices in the U.S. Gulf Coast since the start of
2011, according to a June 25 presentation.  The company’s previous business plan called for a 78
percent increase in refinery output to 3.2 million barrels a day
in 2020 to meet growth in domestic demand. The state-run company
removed output targets from the 2012-2016 business plan, simply
stating that it is building or planning to build an additional
1.6 million barrels a day of capacity.  Petrobras originally planned to start production at the
230,000-barrel-a-day Northeast refinery, formerly known as Abreu
e  Lima , last year. The project is 58 percent complete and will
start processing crude in 2014 after construction delays and
cost increases.  ‘Everyone Wins’  “It’s a story that needs to be learned, written about and
read by the company so that it isn’t repeated,” CEO Foster told
reporters on June 25.  Petrobras declined to comment for this story yesterday. The
company hasn’t asked for an increase, Miriam Guaraciaba, a
Petrobras spokeswoman, said by telephone from Rio de Janeiro
last week. The  finance ministry  declined to comment, a press
officer said in an e-mailed response.  Allowing Petrobras to increase ethanol levels in gasoline
may be a short-term solution to its import losses, according to
Marcos Paulo Fernandes Pereira, an analyst at Votorantim CTVM.  ``In the long run, Petrobras’s price policy tends to have a
diluted effect on results,'' he said. ``While they are 
experiencing losses now with imports, they have in the past
gained from importing gas cheaper than what they sold in Brazil.
This reality could turn if  oil prices  fall abroad.''  Price Recovery  Authorities have taken measures to prevent a repeat of the
ethanol shortages that triggered last year’s decision to cut
levels in fuel, such as offering credit to boost output and
storage capacity, said Jose Carlos Vaz, executive secretary for
the agriculture ministry. A recovery in prices of the biofuel is
also encouraging producers, he said in an interview from
Brasilia.  Greater ethanol supplies could also mean that pump prices
wouldn’t be affected by the measure, said Pires.  “Everyone could win with this decision,” Pires said by
telephone from  Rio de Janeiro . “Petrobras could lower its
import losses, the government could avoid an inflation impact
and the environment also wins because a bigger ethanol
percentage on the mix equals cleaner fuel.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mario Sergio Lima in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 mlima11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  