-- Philippine Peso Declines on Plans to Stem Speculative Capital
-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 2012-07-06T08:32:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/philippine-peso-declines-on-plans-to-stem-speculative-capital.html
The Philippine peso fell, paring its
weekly gain, after the central bank said it’s considering
measures to discourage speculative capital from overseas.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas is reviewing guidelines on
special deposit accounts to ensure only local investors have
access to them, Deputy Governor Nestor Espenilla said yesterday.
Inflows via non-deliverable peso forwards are being monitored as
“possible points of entry of speculative activity,” central
bank Governor Amando Tetangco said in an e-mail on July 3. The
currency reached a four-year high on July 4 and has advanced
almost 5 percent this year.  There’s been “a string of cautionary comments by BSP,”
said Radhika Rao, an economist at Forecast Pte in  Singapore .
“Strong gains in the peso add to the exporting community’s woes
and erode overseas Filipinos’ earnings.”  The peso fell 0.3 percent to 41.792 per dollar at the close
in  Manila , data from Tullett Prebon showed. The currency
strengthened 0.9 percent this week. One-month implied volatility,
a measure of exchange-rate swings used to price options, dropped
10 basis points, or 0.10 percentage point, to 5.9 percent.  Two-week and one-month  special accounts  pay more than the
91-day Treasury bills.  Government bonds  climbed after inflation slowed last month
and Tetangco said yesterday the central bank will ensure targets
of 3 percent to 5 percent for this year and next “are not
breached.” Consumer prices rose 2.8 percent in June, slowing
from 2.9 percent the previous month, official data show.  The yield on the 7.375 percent notes due March 2021 fell
three basis points to 5.10 percent, the lowest level since March
12, data from Tradition Financial Services showed. The rate
declined 13 basis points, or 0.13 percentage point, this week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Clarissa Batino at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  