-- Physics Pioneer Higgs Says He Didn’t Expect Particle in Lifetime
-- B y   R o d n e y   J e f f e r s o n
-- 2012-07-06T13:09:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/physics-pioneer-higgs-says-he-didn-t-expect-particle-in-lifetime.html
Peter Higgs, the physicist whose
paper in 1964 sparked the search for the theoretical particle
named after him, said he didn’t expect it to be found in his
lifetime.  Scientists at CERN, the European Organization for Nuclear
Research, working on the origins of matter said this week they
 discovered  a particle that may support the Higgs theory of
physics. They now need to look at the structure of the particle
to see what it’s made of, Higgs said.  “At the beginning I had no idea a discovery would be made
in my lifetime,” Higgs, 83, said at a press conference in the
Old College at the  University of Edinburgh , where he worked from
1960 until his retirement in 1996. “It’s very nice to be right
sometimes.”  The particle is the final piece of the jigsaw in the
 Standard Model , a theory explaining how the universe is built,
and its existence would help scientists gain a better
understanding of how galaxies hold together. The observed
particle is the heaviest boson ever found, said Joe Incandela,
spokesman for one of the experiments at CERN, at a seminar at
its Geneva headquarters on July 4.  Stephen Hawking, a British theoretical physicist who
thought the Higgs boson wouldn’t be found, has said Higgs should
get a  Nobel Prize . Higgs said the awarding committee would have
to change its rules to allow more people to share the prize
because five of the six theorists are still alive. The  Nobel
Foundation ’s  statutes  say the prizes can’t be divided among more
than three people.  Research Center  Scientists will next look at whether the newly discovered
boson is an elemental one or a composite of others, said Richard
Kenway, professor of mathematical physics in Edinburgh. The
university today announced a new Higgs Centre for Theoretical
Physics with an initial budget of 750,000 pounds ($1.2 million)
for academic staff and research programs.  Higgs said there was “lots more to do.” His advice to
scientists taking on the next challenges was to “keep at it.”  Particle physics is the study of the elemental building
blocks that make up matter. These particles, with names such as
quark, fermion, lepton and boson, can’t be subdivided. They
exist and interact within several unseen “fields” that
permeate the universe.  Scientists are trying to prove the existence of the Higgs
field by displaying a physical effect for the Higgs boson, a
particle that lives for less than a trillionth of a second and
is an excitation, or force, within the Higgs field.  The data presented in Geneva this week were the latest from
the $10.5 billion Large Hadron Collider, a 27-kilometer (17-
mile) circumference particle accelerator buried on the border of
France and  Switzerland . CERN has 10,000 scientists working on
the project, in which billions of subatomic particles are hurled
at each other at velocities approaching the speed of light.  The collider will provide more data later this year, giving
scientists a more complete picture of the observed new particle.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rodney Jefferson in Edinburgh  at 
 r.jefferson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  