-- Pimco’s Kashkari Says Earnings Should Remain Strong
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2012-07-06T15:49:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/pimco-s-kashkari-says-earnings-should-remain-strong.html
Slower-than-forecast growth in
employment means labor costs won’t be a threat to corporate
profits, according to Neel Kashkari, head of global equities at
Pacific Investment Management Co.  “Corporate taxes are not going to go up, cost of labor is
going to stay low,” he said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “Market Makers” program today. “Corporate
profits can continue to stay strong in the short term.”  Labor Department figures today showed the U.S. added 80,000
jobs in June, trailing the median economist projection of
100,000. Average hourly earnings increased 0.3 percent from the
previous month. Analyst forecasts compiled by Bloomberg project
that while earnings fell 1.8 percent for Standard & Poor’s 500
Index companies in the second quarter, profits will still
increase 7.2 percent for the full year.  While a slowdown in the economic recovery may affect
earnings in the longer-term, Kashkari said Pimco is not
forecasting a U.S. or global recession.  “We are just forecasting slow growth,” said Kashkari, a
former assistant  Treasury secretary  who was the first
administrator of the $700 billion Troubled Asset Relief Program  Pimco is being very selective when it comes to which stocks
to buy and is focusing on companies that should be more
resilient in the face of a global economic slowdown, Kashkari
said. He cited companies such as Wal-Mart Stores Inc., the
world’s largest retailer, low-fare carrier Spirit Airlines Inc.
and drugmaker Merck & Co.  “There are individual names that should do well in this
environment,” he said. The  Newport Beach , California-based
firm’s Pimco Total Return Fund is the world’s largest mutual
fund.  The risk of economic shocks from  Europe ’s debt crisis and
slowing growth in  China  create a flight to high-quality global
companies, Kashkari said. Investors should stop holding cash and
come back to the market before inflation accelerates as a result
of central bank policies meant to stimulate growth, he said.  “Investors are waiting on volatility, but earnings will
decay as prices around the economy rise,” he said. “Sitting in
cash is not a good option.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  