-- Podesta Says ’Disaster’ to Delay Fiscal Reckoning (Transcript)
-- B y
-- 2012-07-06T20:48:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/podesta-says-disaster-to-delay-fiscal-reckoning-transcript-.html
John Podesta, a White House chief of
staff to former President  Bill Clinton , said in an interview on
Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital With  Al Hunt ,”
airing this weekend, that a significant postponement of spending
cuts and tax-cut expirations set to kick in Jan. 1 would be a
“disaster” for U.S. fiscal credibility and for President
 Barack Obama ’s ability to govern if elected to a second term.  (This is not a legal transcript. Bloomberg LP cannot
guarantee its accuracy.)  AL HUNT: We begin the show with the chairman of the Center
for American Progress, former White House chief of staff under
President Clinton, John Podesta. Thank you for being with us,
John.  Let’s start with the jobs report on Friday, another dreary
jobs report. This is a really sluggish economy for a president
running for re-election, isn’t it?  JOHN PODESTA : Well, certainly a sideways job report. We’ve
had 28 months of job growth, and we’ve had private-sector job
growth now that’s - that’s outpaced the job loss during Obama’s
term. But I think, as I said, it’s sideways. He’s certainly
hoping -  HUNT: And a bad number for his re-election prospects?  PODESTA: Well, I think it’s - you know, it’s - this is all
about expectations, and I think people had begun to think that
we might turn into a recession. And it looks like,
notwithstanding the headwinds that the  U.S. economy  is facing
from the global economy, and particularly from  Europe , the
recovery is still intact and we’re still - and we’re still
putting jobs on the board. Manufacturing was up again.  So I think it’s - it’s a kind of middling jobs report from
him. He’s got to be concerned about it. I think he would have
hoped for more, but - but I don’t think it’s a disaster, either.  HUNT: Republicans say, though, it underscores the point
they’ve been making. You cannot increase taxes with this kind of
weak economy and it’s a gift for them.  PODESTA: Well, you know, I think that - first of all, it’s
the ideas that Romney’s put forward in this campaign and his
record in the past that I think will become the issues in the
fall. And I think that what he’s suggesting for the American
economy would be devastating for  job creation , particularly the
deep structural cuts in innovation and education and places
where, in fact, the economy’s the weakest.  Of course, one of the big overhangs here is we again lost
jobs at the state and local government level in this report. And
what he would do is to tank that even more. So I think with that
level of deep and structural cutting, particularly, again, to
state and local government, I don’t think that this economy can
ever take off.  HUNT: Well, as you know, fiscal D-Day less than six months
away, sequestration, spending cuts supposed to take effect, Bush
- all the tax cuts expire on Jan. 1. There are a number of
people on  Capitol Hill , including some Democrats, who say we
don’t need this kind of uncertainty right after an election. We
ought to - we ought to postpone those effective dates for three
or six months. Should the White House consider that?  PODESTA: Well, you know, I think that the president wants
to get a deal - a framework agreement. I think they’re
considering whether they can do that in the lame-duck session.
You know, I’m skeptical about the timing of that, whether they
can actually put that deal together in the lame-duck. But I
think what they can’t afford to do is kind of keep putting this
day of reckoning off further and further into the future.  HUNT: So it’d be a mistake to take a postponement right now
or a delay right now?  PODESTA: You know, if - yeah, I think you have to judge
these things by the term of the delay, if you will. I would say,
they’re better off trying to use the deadline that’s looming to
get a framework agreement along the lines, at least structurally
along the lines of - of Bowles-Simpson, but I think that I would
definitely not go for a long-term extension. If, you know, the
Republicans were talking about nine-month extension, I think
that would be a disaster for -for the credibility of the - of
the government overall and for the Obama administration’s
capacity to govern in - in a - in a post-election framework.  HUNT: Let me go to the health-care ruling. For all the
Democratic celebration that affordable health care was upheld,
there are some who think it’s a trap. With  John Roberts  calling
it a tax, it has now made Barack Obama look like a big tax
increaser. Is it a trap for the Democrats?  PODESTA: Well, what it’s done in the most immediate
aftermath has made  Mitt Romney  look like a flip-flopper once
again. He can’t really decide whether it’s a tax or a penalty,
whether Massachusetts was a tax or was a penalty. We’re pulling
up videotape in which he said both things. So I think in the
immediate, you know, aftermath, I think it’s been actually more
of a problem for Romney. I think the support for the Affordable
Care Act has strengthened to some extent.  HUNT: But the administration -  PODESTA: So Republicans are going to go back at it and try
to repeal it as soon as this - as this upcoming week, but then
they’re going to have to explain how already the benefits that
are in the act are going to be turned off.  HUNT: But the White House still hasn’t persuaded the
American people of what - what the good parts from their point
of view of the bill are.  PODESTA: Well, you know, I think that they could do a
better job of trying to explain what the good parts are, but as
I said, there’s a lot that’s already kicked in. Denying coverage
to kids with pre-existing conditions, you can’t do that anymore.
Kids - the one part of the population where you’ve seen health
insurance actually uptick are young people, 18 to 25, where you
see an increase in the provision of health care.  HUNT: Because they know - let me -  PODESTA: Because they’re on their parent policy, which has
already come in.  HUNT: Let me turn to the campaign, and the Obama team is
relentlessly going after Mitt Romney on Bain and outsourcing of
jobs. PolitiFact, which is neutral, says that these ads are very
misleading, they’re unfair and untrue, and that - and that the -
the team Obama has really gone beyond the bounds.  PODESTA: Well, look, I think it was the Washington Post,
not the Obama campaign, that said that Bain was a pioneer in
investing in businesses that outsource jobs. Now, you can take
credit for that or you could try to explain it, but I think
that’s just a factual statement of what Bain was doing.  HUNT: They should - they should keep on that? They should
keep on that theme?  PODESTA: You know, I think that the real problem for Romney
going forward with respect to Bain are this incredibly complex
set of financial transactions which have failed to be disclosed
fully. AP is just writing on that this week.  Vanity Fair  had a
big piece about these offshore accounts he has in the  Cayman
Islands . People can’t figure them out. There’s money moving in
and out from Bain.  HUNT: Right.  PODESTA: And I think that, in the end of the day, you know,
how he got an IRA that’s valued at $102 million, when the limits
on how much you can put in was $30,000 a year, people are going
to want some answers to this. And so far I think the Romney
campaign has been - you know, both they’ve been stonewalling the
legitimate reporters’ questions about this, and I think that the
American public is going to kind of scratch their head and say,
how did he make all that money? Where is it? Why is it in all
these foreign offshore accounts? Is he avoiding taxes? Why is
his  tax rate  so low?  And, look, what that says is not so much that he isn’t a
good or a bad businessman, but is he going to be looking out for
me? And I think -  HUNT: Let me ask -  PODESTA: - they’re going to have real questions about that
by the end of this campaign.  HUNT: Let me turn to one question about  Afghanistan . You
and Stephen Hadley,  George W. Bush ’s national security adviser,
wrote a thoughtful piece about how we get out of Afghanistan.
But Dexter Filkins, probably the greatest reporter over there,
wrote a piece in the  New Yorker  last week which said, after 11
years, 16,000 American wounded, $400 billion spent, the U.S.
will leave without the mission accomplished, without nation-
building, without a counter - the counterinsurgency is a
failure, the Taliban is not defeated, corruption is still
rampant, civil war likely.  PODESTA: Well, you know, I think what our piece that - that
we wrote in  Foreign Affairs  and our advice to the administration
is if you don’t pay deep attention to the political transition
that’s going to occur - President Karzai’s term-limited, there
needs to be a presidential election in 2014 - if you don’t build
support for an institution that could bring forth a leader that
has credibility in that country, then everything that Dexter is
predicting will take place.  HUNT: Final quick question. Who do you think Mitt Romney
will pick as his running mate?  PODESTA: I think  Paul Ryan .  HUNT: Paul Ryan? Is that a wish, or is that a prediction?  PODESTA: Both.  HUNT: Both. John Podesta, thank you very much for joining
us. .  ***END OF TRANSCRIPT***  THIS TRANSCRIPT MAY NOT BE 100% ACCURATE AND MAY CONTAIN
MISSPELLINGS AND OTHER INACCURACIES. THIS TRANSCRIPT IS PROVIDED
“AS IS,” WITHOUT EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND.
BLOOMBERG RETAINS ALL RIGHTS TO THIS TRANSCRIPT AND PROVIDES IT
SOLELY FOR YOUR PERSONAL, NON-COMMERCIAL USE. BLOOMBERG, ITS
SUPPLIERS AND THIRD-PARTY AGENTS SHALL HAVE NO LIABILITY FOR
ERRORS IN THIS TRANSCRIPT OR FOR LOST PROFITS, LOSSES OR DIRECT,
INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, SPECIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES
IN CONNECTION WITH THE FURNISHING, PERFORMANCE, OR USE OF SUCH
TRANSCRIPT. NEITHER THE INFORMATION NOR ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN
THIS TRANSCRIPT CONSTITUTES A SOLICITATION OF THE PURCHASE OR
SALE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES. ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN THE
TRANSCRIPT DOES NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT THE VIEWS OF BLOOMBERG
LP.  #<477727.5983423.3.0.2.9.25>#
 