-- Podesta Urges Against Prolonged Action on Fiscal Hurdles
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2012-07-07T04:00:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/podesta-urges-against-prolonged-action-on-fiscal-hurdles.html
A significant postponement of
spending cuts and tax-cut expirations set to kick in Jan. 1
would be a “disaster” for U.S. fiscal credibility and for
President  Barack Obama ’s ability to govern if he is re-elected,
said  John Podesta , a former White House chief of staff to
President  Bill Clinton .  “I would definitely not go for a long-term extension”
such as a nine-month deal, if congressional Republicans push for
that, said Podesta, an Obama supporter and chairman of the
Center for American Progress research center in  Washington .
Podesta was interviewed on Bloomberg Television’s “Political
Capital With  Al Hunt ,” airing this weekend.  Republican and Democratic congressional leaders are
weighing whether and how long to delay $1.2 trillion in
automatic spending cuts over a decade that would be triggered if
Congress fails to reach a deficit-cutting agreement.  While “skeptical” of the administration’s ability to get
a broad bipartisan  fiscal restructuring  deal mixing spending
cuts and tax increases in the lame-duck session of Congress
after the Nov. 6 elections, Podesta said Democrats should use
the year-end deadline to push for a framework agreement.  Podesta said Obama has “got to be concerned” about a
“sideways” jobs report the government issued yesterday
that shows the nation’s  unemployment  rate stalled at 8.2 percent
four months before the election.  Recovery ‘Intact’  “I don’t think it’s a disaster, either,” Podesta said.
“The recovery is still intact,” and “we’re still putting jobs
on the board,” including in the manufacturing sector, he said.  Podesta said the U.S. Supreme Court ruling last week
upholding the health-care coverage mandate in the Patient
Protection and Affordable Care Act so far has been more damaging
for Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  than for
Obama, who championed the law.  Chief Justice  John Roberts ’s justification of the mandate
as a tax opens Obama to criticism he is raising taxes on middle-
class Americans who don’t purchase insurance. Romney, who is
accusing Obama of raising taxes, enacted a similar mandate as
governor of  Massachusetts  and has vacillated between describing
it as a penalty and a tax.  That has made Romney “look like a flip-flopper once
again,” Podesta said. “We’re pulling up videotape in which he
said both things.”  Bain Focus  Podesta said Romney also is facing growing scrutiny of the
“incredibly complex set of financial transactions” through
which he and the Boston-based Bain Capital LLC that he co-
founded made money, including offshore accounts in the  Cayman
Islands .  Podesta said Romney has been “stonewalling” legitimate
calls for more transparency on these issues.  “At the end of the day, you know, how he got an IRA that’s
valued at $102 million, when the limits on how much you can put
in was $30,000 a year, people are going to want some answers to
this,” Podesta said.  “The American public is going to kind of scratch their
head and say, how did he make all that money?” Podesta said.
“Where is it? Why is it in all these foreign offshore accounts?
Is he avoiding taxes? Why is his  tax rate  so low?”  Podesta added that the question for voters is, “Is he
going to be looking out for me?”  Romney Disclosure  Romney in January disclosed that he and his wife, Ann, paid
a 13.9 percent tax rate on 2010 income of $21.6 million, using
the preferential rate for  capital gains  and charitable
deductions. The top rate for ordinary income is 35 percent.  Romney spokeswoman Andrea Saul dismissed Podesta’s
criticism, calling Obama and his allies “desperate to
distract” from yesterday’s government report showing slower-
than-forecast growth in U.S. payrolls last month.  “Since President Obama can’t run on his abysmal economic
record, he and his allies have resorted to false and ridiculous
attacks,” Saul said in an e-mailed response to a request for
comment.  Romney, in a Time magazine interview in May, defended his
record at Bain and said voters care more about Obama’s record in
office than his own background at Bain.  “Has the president made things better for the American
people?” Romney said voters will ask. “Are they better off
than they were four years ago?”  On taxes, Romney told Time he’s looking to provide a lower
rate “across the board for Americans” to boost small
businesses.  Asked whom Romney would choose his vice presidential
running mate, Podesta predicted Representative  Paul Ryan , a
Wisconsin Republican and chairman of the House Budget Committee.
Ryan favors repealing Obama’s health law, overhauling Medicare
and providing refundable tax credits for buying health
insurance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  