-- Post-Qaddafi Libya Has First National Vote in Four Decades
-- B y   B r i g i t t e   S c h e f f e r
-- 2012-07-07T10:28:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/post-qaddafi-libya-begins-first-national-ballot-in-four-decades.html
Libyans vote today in their first
free national election in more than 40 years amid political
infighting and threats of a boycott that may hamper efforts to
rebuild after last year’s uprising against  Muammar Qaddafi .  About 2.8 million registered voters will choose a 200-seat
General National Conference that will pick a Cabinet to replace
the ruling Transitional National Council, which has struggled to
restore order and revive the economy since the end of Qaddafi’s
42-year rule. Two days ago, the council stripped the future
assembly of its powers to name a committee to write a
constitution, saying that Libyans will choose the 60-member
panel in another election.  The pre-election period has been marked by the eastern
region’s push for a measure of autonomy and the NTC’s failure to
wrest power from regional militias that spearheaded the NATO-
backed uprising. Fighting among the armed groups this year has
undermined security and discouraged local businesses.  “All the businesses and industries are waiting for the
elections to finish,” Fawzy Shebany, the general manager of
real estate investment, catering and shipping firm Al-Madina
Holdings Co., said in a July 1 interview in Tripoli. “No
contracts are being awarded at all. This is affecting every
sector.”  A helicopter carrying Libyan election materials was shot at
by gunmen in the eastern city of Benghazi, said Nouri Al-Abbar,
the head of the country’s election commission. The incident at
the airport killed one person and wounded two, the official said
yesterday.  Campaign Posters  Among the 142 parties and 3,700 candidates vying for seats
are Islamist groups seeking to emulate the success of their
counterparts in  Tunisia  and  Egypt . Polls opened at 8 a.m. local
time and are slated to close 12 hours later.  “I am so excited about the elections, finally we get to
choose,” said Nader Al Aswed, former militia fighter from a
Tripoli suburb. “It’s been beautiful to see the campaign
posters everywhere. Before only Qaddafi’s face was allowed.”  While the new assembly will no longer be able to appoint
the body to write a new constitution, it will decide how to
organize the election to choose it, NTC spokesman Salah Al
Torhouni told reporters on July 5.  Libya, the holder of the biggest oil reserves in  Africa ,
boosted crude production to 1.43 million barrels per day last
month, close to prewar levels. Companies operating there include
 Total SA (FP) ,  ConocoPhillips (COP) ,  Repsol YPF SA (REP)  and  Eni SpA. (ENI)   Oil Exports Halted  The country’s political situation hasn’t matched the pace
of the petroleum industry’s revival, with the south joining the
oil-rich east in pushing for semi-autonomy.  Three Libyan ports in the country’s eastern province of
Cyrenaica are unable to export oil because of protests, Arabian
Gulf Oil Co. spokesman Abdul Jalil said. The company’s oil
exports aren’t affected by the closures, Jalil said.  Militants in Libya have forced the closing of three oil
refineries in the country’s east, the  Associated Press  reported
yesterday, citing a rebel commander. The rebels are seeking to
cancel the vote that they say will marginalize the oil-rich
east, the AP reported Fadlallah Haroun as saying. The El Brega,
Tobruk and Sarir refineries have a combined capacity to process
48,000 barrels a day of crude, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  In the east, where the uprising against Qaddafi started,
residents voted to take control of their administrative affairs,
sparking fears of a complete secession.  Militia Gunmen  Armed groups have engaged in clashes in the North African
country. The transitional authorities sent gunmen belonging to
the Zintan and Misrata militias, the two most powerful, to the
southern city of Sebha in April to serve as peacekeepers after
African Tibu tribe clashed with local Arab forces.  The Tibu later threatened to declare autonomy and have said
they may to boycott the vote after roughly 15 percent of their
voters were disqualified. That followed an election commission
ruling stating that they did not hold Libyan citizenship or
valid identification cards, the  Libya  Herald reported, citing a
June 26 decision by election officials.  “The electoral process will undoubtedly be affected by
violence, but we believe that the major militias seek to retain
influence in the country’s new institutions rather than to
overturn them,” Crispin Hawes, director of the Mideast and
North Africa program at the Eurasia Group, wrote in an e-mailed
note from  London .  Among the most powerful parties running are the Islamist
groups, including the Muslim Brotherhood-linked Justice and
Construction Party, mimicking events in other countries where
the so-called Arab Spring protests toppled leaders.  Islamist Ambitions  In Tunisia, the Islamists gained control of the parliament.
In Egypt, the Muslim Brotherhood and Salafi Nour Party dominated
the legislature before it was disbanded and the Brotherhood’s
Mohamed Mursi went on to win the presidency.  Hawes said that he expects some of the Islamist parties to
do well in the race, while others representing exiled anti-
Qaddafi groups probably will fare poorly.  A total of 93 international observers are registered and
more than 9,500 representatives of local non-governmental
organizations and civil societies are monitoring the vote.  “It’s important for the economy that these elections go
ahead and we move on to the next phase” after the revolution,
said Husni Bey, the chief executive of the Husni Bey Group, a
Tripoli-based importer. “While the private sector and the oil
sector are doing well, many other areas of industry and commerce
need a kick-start. It’s almost psychological.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brigitte Scheffer in Dubai at 
 bscheffer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  