-- RBC Says It Didn’t Collude With Other Banks in Libor Rate
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2012-07-06T16:02:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/rbc-says-it-didn-t-collude-with-other-banks-in-libor-rate.html
Royal Bank of Canada , the country’s
largest lender by assets, said it didn’t collude with other
banks in setting the London interbank offered rate, distancing
itself from probes on whether banks rigged benchmark rates.  “We have determined that RBC acted in accordance with the
British Bankers’ Association requirement that our Libor
submissions accurately reflected our perception of our cost of
funds and that we did not collude with other banks,” Katherine Gay, a spokeswoman for the Toronto-based bank, said today in an
e-mailed statement.  Regulators in the U.S., Europe and Asia are investigating
whether banks that help set key rates for $360 trillion of
securities were involved in collusion. Royal Bank is among 16
lenders that participate in setting Libor and one of 18 banks on
the  U.S. dollar  rate-setting panel, according to the  British
Bankers’ Association .  Libor rates are determined by a group of banks’ daily
estimates of how much it would cost them to borrow from one
another for different time frames and in different currencies,
including dollars, euros and yen.  The U.K. Serious Fraud Office is opening a criminal
investigation into the attempted manipulation of interbank
offered rates that led to  Barclays Plc (BARC)  getting a record fine.
SFO Director David Green announced the decision to “accept the
Libor matter for investigation” today in an e-mailed statement.
The U.S. Department of Justice is already conducting a criminal
probe.  Barclays, the U.K.’s second-largest bank by assets, was
fined 290 million pounds ($449.3 million) last week for rigging
Libor for profit. Chairman Marcus Agius, Chief Executive Officer
 Robert Diamond  and Chief Operating Officer Jerry Del Missier
subsequently resigned.  Citigroup Inc. (C) , Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc,  UBS AG (UBSN) ,
ICAP Plc, Lloyds Banking Group Plc and Deutsche Bank AG are
among the firms regulators are investigating.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  