-- Treasuries Rise as Slowing Job Gains Fuel Bets on Fed
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r   a n d   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-07-06T21:42:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/treasuries-rise-as-slowing-job-gains-fuel-bets-on-fed.html
Treasuries rose for a second day
after the  U.S. economy  added fewer jobs than forecast last
month, prompting investors to increase bets the Federal Reserve
will resort to a third round of asset purchases.  Ten-year notes  had their best weekly gain in a month after
the Labor Department report showed the U.S. is making scant
progress toward reducing joblessness. Implied yields on
Eurodollar and federal fund futures fell as the below-
expectations number of jobs added emboldened traders to wager
that the central bank will keep rates locked near zero percent
and is likely to embark on more so-called quantitative easing.  “You do have some further pricing in of QE3,” said Adam Brown, director of Treasury trading at Barclays Plc in  New York ,
one of 21 primary dealers that trade with the Fed. “It’s hard
to tell if it’s a risk-off trade or if it’s QE-specific, but I
think they’re related. If you think QE is going to happen
generally you’re going to be bullish on rates.”  The 10-year  yield  fell five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 1.55 percent at 5:33 p.m. in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 1.75 percent
security due in May 2022 rose 14/32, or $4.38 per $1,000 face
value, to 101 26/32. The yield reached 1.54 percent, the lowest
level since June 5.  The 10-year yield declined 10 basis points this week, the
biggest drop since it tumbled 29 basis points in the five days
ended June 1.  The benchmark note’s record low yield of 1.44 percent was
set June 1 after payrolls climbed less than the most-pessimistic
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey.  Fed Sale  The U.S. central bank sold $7.93 billion of Treasuries
maturing between January and May 2013 as part of its program to
replace holdings of shorter-term securities with longer-term
bonds.  The Treasury will auction $66 billion of notes and bonds at
sales next week: $32 billion of three-year debt on July 10, $21
billion of 10-year securities on July 11 and $13 billion of 30-
year bonds on July 12.  Treasuries have returned 2 percent this year, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch data, compared with a 9.8 return
in 2011.  Treasury 10-year yields  need to fall below 1.55 percent to
confirm a resumption of the notes’ underlying “bull trend” and
decline toward the record low, analysts including  David Sneddon ,
head of technical-analysis research at Credit Suisse Group AG in
 London , wrote in a note to investors.  U.S. payrolls rose 80,000 last month after a 77,000
increase in May, Labor Department figures showed today in
 Washington . Economists projected a 100,000 gain, according to
the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey. The  unemployment
rate  held at 8.2 percent.  Lackluster Jobs  “The unemployment number shows listlessness in the U.S.
economy,” said  Tony Crescenzi , a strategist at  Newport Beach ,
California-based Pacific Investment Management Co., which
oversees the world’s largest bond fund, in a radio interview on
“Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Ken Prewitt.
“It’s clearly growing too slowly to keep the unemployment rate
from rising and with continued figures like this, one would
expect the  Federal Reserve  to continue to be what it’s been,
which is activist, and adopt a QE3.”  Eurodollar futures contracts, which are based off
expectations for the  three-month dollar London interbank offered
rate, or Libor , and changes in central bank monetary policy,
were down between one and three basis points for contracts that
expire through the end of 2015. The implied yield on the
December 2014 contract was 0.745 percent, down two basis points
compared with yesterday and from one basis point just before the
8:30 a.m. payroll report.  Benchmark Rate  The Fed lowered its benchmark  interest rate  to zero in
December 2008 and has said economic conditions will probably
warrant holding the rate low through at least late 2014.  Eurodollar trade in price terms with the implied yield is
derived by subtracting the contract price from 100.  The Federal funds futures contract expiring in December
2012, traded on Chicago-based CME Group electronic exchange, is
down one basis point to 0.165 percent. The futures are settled
at expiration to the average for the fed funds  effective rate 
during the contract month.  “Federal funds futures are trading a little better across
the curve today,” said Kenneth Silliman, head of U.S. short-
term rates trading at Toronto Dominion Bank’s TD Securities unit
in New York. “This data would be another check in the box for
the potential for the QE3 camp down the road.”  Global Action  Central banks, including the Fed, have stepped in to
bolster the economy as global growth has slowed and as hiring in
the U.S. has dropped off from a 19-month high of 275,000 in
January.  The Fed said June 20 that it would enlarge its program of
replacing shorter-term securities from its Treasury holdings
with longer-term securities to $667 billion from $400 billion.
The central bank has purchased in two rounds of QE $2.3 trillion
of  government  and mortgage securities to help lower private
sector and government borrowing costs.  “The Fed may or may not do QE,” said Jason Brady, a
managing director at Thornburg Investment Management in  Santa
Fe ,  New Mexico , which oversees $72 billion. “They stand ready
to do more. My issue as a portfolio manager is I don’t think
it’s going to do very much.”  Treasuries rallied yesterday as the ECB reduced its
benchmark rate to a record low of 0.75 percent and took its
deposit rate to zero. President  Mario Draghi  said “economic
growth in the euro area continues to remain weak with heightened
uncertainty weighing on both confidence and sentiment.”  Yield Forecast  Ten-year yields will climb to 2.12 percent by year-end,
according to a Bloomberg survey with the most recent forecasts
given the heaviest weightings. The yield has averaged 3.2
percent over the past five years.  Unemployment in the U.S. has averaged 9.1 percent since
President  Barack Obama  took office in January 2009. It was 7.8
percent at that time, up from 5 percent in January 2008.  Treasuries climbed this week after the  European Central
Bank  and the People’s Bank of  China  both cut interest rates and
the  Bank of England  increased its asset-purchase program.  “You are seeing coordinated central-bank action across the
globe now,” Silliman said. “There is a lot of liquidity that
is going to be around in global markets for quite a while.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net ;
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  