-- Treasuries Little Changed Before U.S. Employment Report
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-07-06T12:14:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/treasuries-poised-for-weekly-advance-before-jobs-report.html
Treasuries were little changed before
a report forecast to show the  U.S. economy  is struggling to
create enough jobs to bring down unemployment, underpinning
demand for the safest assets.  U.S. securities headed for their biggest weekly gain in a
month after the  European Central Bank  and People’s Bank of  China 
both cut interest rates yesterday and the  Bank of England 
increased its asset-purchase program. Slowing growth and
inflation are increasing pressure on the  Federal Reserve  to
start a third round of bond purchases. The Fed bought $2.3
trillion of debt in two rounds of so-called quantitative easing
from 2008 to 2011 to help cap borrowing costs.  “A weak payroll number has the potential to support
Treasuries,” said  Peter Schaffrik , head of European interest-
rate strategy at Royal Bank of Canada in London. “There’s been
a positive tone in the Treasury market this week as we saw the
central banks cutting rates.”  The benchmark 10-year  yield  declined one basis point, or
0.01 percentage point, to 1.59 percent at 8:12 a.m. in  New York ,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 1.75 percent note
due in May 2022 advanced 1/32, or 31 cents per $1,000 face
amount, to 101 15/32. Yields had dropped seven basis points this
week, the most since the period ending June 1.  U.S. employers hired 100,000 workers last month after a
69,000 gain in May, according to the median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News before the Labor
Department report. The  unemployment rate  stayed at 8.2 percent,
a separate Bloomberg survey showed.  Slower-than-expected job growth in the May data released on
June 1 sent 10-year yields to a record low 1.4387 percent.  ‘High Probability’  “There is a high probability they will do QE3 this year,”
said Hiromasa Nakamura, who helps oversee the equivalent of
$41.2 billion as an investor at Mizuho Asset Management Co. in
 Tokyo . “The economic situation is weak, and the inflation
numbers are declining. These factors will cause U.S. yields to
decline.”  There were signs of improvement in job data released
yesterday. Fewer Americans filed first-time claims for
unemployment insurance payments, a government report showed, and
companies added more workers than economists forecast, based on
an industry survey.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc., one of the 21 primary dealers
that trade directly with the Fed, increased its forecast for
today’s employment figure to 125,000 from 75,000, according to a
report by economists led by  Jan Hatzius  in New York.  ‘Bull Trend’  Ten-year  Treasury yields  need to fall below 1.55 percent to
confirm a resumption of the notes’ underlying “bull trend” and
decline toward the record low, analysts including  David Sneddon ,
head of technical-analysis research at Credit Suisse Group AG in
London, wrote in a note to investors.  Treasuries rallied yesterday as the ECB reduced its
benchmark rate to a record low of 0.75 percent and took its
deposit rate to zero. President  Mario Draghi  said “economic
growth in the euro area continues to remain weak with heightened
uncertainty weighing on both confidence and sentiment.”  German bunds also advanced today, pushing two-year yields
below zero, as investors sought the safest assets.  The Fed will probably increase its efforts to spur growth
before year-end, said Timothy Bitsberger, a managing director in
New York at BNP Paribas SA and a former assistant secretary for
financial markets at the Treasury Department. BNP is also a
primary dealer.  “I would expect the Fed to do QE3 at some point in the
next few months,” Bitsberger said yesterday on Bloomberg
Television’s “In the Loop” with  Betty Liu . “There are some
pretty strong headwinds we need to get through.”  Operation Twist  The Fed on June 20 expanded its program to replace $400
billion of short-maturity Treasuries in its portfolio with
longer-term debt to lengthen the average maturity of its
holdings, known as Operation Twist, by $267 billion and extended
it until year-end.  The central bank plans to sell as much as $8 billion of
Treasuries maturing from January 2013 to June 2013 today as part
of the debt swap, according to the Fed Bank of New York  website .  Chungkeun Oh, who invests in bonds in the biggest markets
for  Industrial Bank of Korea (024110) , South  Korea ’s largest lender to
small- and medium-sized companies, said he trimmed his holdings
of Treasuries in July.  “I’m a bit bearish,” Oh said. “This yield has already
priced in a weak employment report and a slowdown in growth.”  The term premium, a model created by economists at the Fed,
indicates Treasuries are  overvalued . The gauge was negative 0.92
today, the lowest since falling to a record negative 0.94 on
June 1. A negative reading indicates investors are willing to
accept yields below what is considered fair value.  Treasuries have returned 2 percent this year, according to
indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies.  Ten-year yields will climb to 2.12 percent by year-end,
according to a Bloomberg survey with the most recent forecasts
given the heaviest weightings. The yield has averaged 3.2
percent over the past five years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in  London  at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Wes Goodman in  Singapore  at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  