-- Three Children Die as Yacht Sinks After July 4th Fireworks Show
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2012-07-06T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/three-children-die-as-yacht-sinks-after-july-4th-fireworks-show.html
Three children died after a yacht
full of Fourth of July fireworks spectators capsized in  Long
Island  Sound near Oyster Bay, according to Nassau County police.  While 24 people were rescued, the bodies of David
Aureliano, 12, Harley Treanor, 11, and Victoria Gaines, 8, were
found in the cabin of the 34-foot (10-meter) Silverton vessel,
said Maureen Roach, an officer and a spokeswoman for Nassau
County police. Raising the craft may begin today as an
investigation into the sinking continues, Roach said.  The yacht rolled over at 10:10 p.m. July 4 off Bayville,
between Center Island and Lloyd Neck. Police are investigating
whether the incident was caused by another boat’s wake, weather
or overcrowding, said James Imperiale, a police spokesman.  Jim Mercante, a lawyer with  Rubin, Fiorella & Friedman  LLP
in  New York  and a retired merchant marine captain, said he has
been hired by an insurer to represent the boat’s owner, Kevin
Treanor. His relationship to Harley Treanor wasn’t clear.
Mercante declined further comment.  Treanor was a “very recent” member of the Harbor Boating
Club and doesn’t dock his yacht there, Commodore Jerry Nigro
said in an interview at the marina in Huntington, a New York
suburb. He called the sinking an “unfortunate tragedy.”  Candi One  A man identified by News12 Long Island as Sal Aureliano
said he was the uncle of David Aureliano and was operating the
yacht, called Candi One. Aureliano said that he was taking the
boat home after the fireworks when it was hit by a wave that
turned the vessel, according to the report.  “The next thing I knew we were turning,” Aureliano told
the local cable-television station in an interview that aired
yesterday. “We just kept turning and everybody was in the
water. It was chaos.”  No charges are pending in connection with the sinking,
Roach said.  Crews from Nassau County Police, the U.S. Coast Guard, and
the  Oyster Bay  police and fire departments responded to the
sinking, Coast Guard Petty Officer Sondra Rivera said. Boaters
in the area also assisted in rescuing passengers, she said.  Police are investigating how many life jackets were aboard
the craft, Imperiale said. The vessel remains submerged in as
much as 70 feet of water, he said.  “Everything is still under investigation right now,”
Imperiale said.  Coast Guard rules  require  vessels to carry one personal
flotation device for each passenger, while state law calls for
children under 12 to wear them at all times except when in a
boat’s cabin, Imperiale said.  ‘Common Sense’  The Coast Guard doesn’t set maximum-capacity limits for
yachts over 26 feet long, said Petty Officer Erik Swanson.
Boaters should use “common sense” or an overloaded boat can
become unsafe and difficult to handle, he said. Coast Guard
crews often conduct random safety checks, and overcrowded boats
are one of the things they try to spot, Swanson said.  “We do specifically look for overloaded vessels and to see
if there are enough life jackets on board,” he said.  Bruce Lebens, a yacht broker and boat racer from East
Norwich, said he saw emergency trucks responding to the scene as
he and his son drove home from watching the fireworks from land
on Center Island.  There were as many as 100 boats in the area, which may have
contributed to a “cross-chop” of wakes traveling in many
directions as they all left simultaneously, Lebens said in a
telephone interview. Even experienced captains can find
navigating such conditions difficult, he said.  Lebens, who said he’s been involved in boating for almost
six decades, said he spoke to several people connected to the
local sailing community and said the yacht may have been at
double the safe capacity for its size.  “If you’ve got 27 people on a 34-foot boat, you’re
overloaded and the next question is whether there were enough
life jackets,” Lebens said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  