-- Triathletes Nervous About New York Hudson Swim After 2011 Deaths
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2012-07-06T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/triathletes-nervous-about-new-york-hudson-swim-after-2011-deaths.html
Even after competing in about 75
triathlons, including the past seven  New York  City Triathlons,
Timothy Fallon said he gets nervous before jumping in the water.  “You have to realize you’re going to get bumped and
kicked,” Fallon, a 36-year-old mortgage trader at Merrill Lynch
& Co., said in a telephone interview. “Nobody means you any
harm, but it’s going to happen.”  Fallon and 4,000 others will stand on a wharf in the  Hudson
River  on July 8 near Manhattan’s 96th street for the start of
the NYC Triathlon, one year after two competitors died during
the swim portion of the event. Race organizer John Korff,
president of Korff Enterprises Inc., implemented changes this
year in an attempt to ease concerns.  Korff, whose company has staged the race since 2000, made
all entrants commit to completing an open-water swim of at least
a half mile within 18 months of the event in an effort to better
prepare them for what they will encounter in the river.  Korff said he received notes from many competitors after
completing the practice swim.  “It seems like it was a stress-buster for a lot of
people,” Korff said. “It gave them a comfort level. If you
have a case of the yips, we’d rather you do it in a practice
swim than during the race.”  In addition to the open-water swim requirement, the start
of the swim portion this year will be more spread out to avoid
congestion in the river, Korff said.  About 15-20 swimmers will start every 20 seconds, an
increase from last year’s 10-second intervals. Spreading the
participants out may ease the concerns of nervous swimmers,
Korff said.  “There will be a more continuous flow,” he said. “It
sounds small, but when you’re in the water it’s not.”  Panic Attacks  Emily Aldridge, a 27-year-old judicial court clerk in
 Manhattan  who will be competing in the race for the first time,
counts herself among the nervous.  “Just getting in is kind of daunting,” Aldridge said.
“Getting past that is the first big challenge of the race.”  After suffering what she called panic attacks in her first
two triathlons in 2009, Aldridge said she eased her concerns by
competing in a sprint-distance triathlon, with a swim leg of 750
meters (820 yards), last month on  Long Island . Sunday’s race
will be her sixth triathlon.  New York’s Olympic-distance race includes a 1.5-kilometer
swim, followed by a 40-kilometer bicycle leg along the Henry
Hudson Parkway and then a run of 10 kilometers, finishing in
Central Park. Ben Collins won the men’s race last year in 1 hour,
48 minutes and 11 seconds. Rebeccah Wassner won the women’s
title in 2 hours, 3 minutes and 19 seconds.  Nervous Issue  While preparing for the race with open-water practice swims
can help, veteran triathletes said nerves are always an issue,
especially in a race that draws many first-time competitors,
such as the New York event.  “It’s totally different than swimming in a pool,” Fallon
said. “There’s an element of staying calm.”  Michael Kudryk, a 64-year-old from Freehold,  New Jersey ,
and Amy Martich, a 40-year-old investment analyst from the
Chicago area, died last year after suffering heart attacks while
in the Hudson River. The swim is monitored by race personnel in
boats, kayaks, jet skis and about three dozen lifeguards, Korff
said.  “There’s not much more we can do,” Korff said. “We more
than meet the safety standards.”  Dan Arnett, owner and head coach with Atlanta-based
Endurance Concepts triathlon training program, said race
directors can increase safety by creating a “novice swimmer”
category. Those swimmers would go out last in their own group,
preventing them from having to fight for water space with more
experienced racers.  Novice Swimmers  “With the novice swimmers, they would know they need to be
uber-vigilant,” Arnett, 37, said in a telephone interview. “It
will also let these people be comfortable around each other. The
biggest fear factor is the swim. If you stop in the swim, bad
things happen.”  According to a 2010 study in the Journal of the  American
Medical Association , the sudden-death rate for triathlon
competitors was twice as high as the rate for marathon runners.  Between 2006 and 2008, 14 people died during triathlons,
equating to a sudden-death rate of 1.5 per 100,000 competitors,
the study found. The rate for sudden deaths in marathons over a
30-year period was 0.8, according to the study. Of the triathlon
deaths, 13 occurred during the swim portion -- one in a river,
with six in ocean swims. Seven of nine athletes autopsied were
shown to have cardiovascular abnormalities, according to the
study.  Crowd Swim  “With the growth of the sport there probably are people
that get into it that aren’t really familiar with what it’s like
to swim with a lot of people around you,” Kevin Harris, a
cardiologist with the Minneapolis Heart Institute who helped
conduct the study, said in a telephone interview. “It’s a tough
place to discover that in the midst of competition.”  The triathlon, which began in  Southern California  in the
1970s, is one of the fastest-growing sports in the U.S.
Membership in USA Triathlon has grown to about 150,000 in 2012,
compared with about 1,500 in 1982.  Because of that growth, the risk to inexperienced
competitors increases, Fallon said. The best advice is for
entrants to realize the nature of the race and to prepare
themselves physically and mentally for it.  “This is not something you sign up for because you think
it’s cool and you just want to do it,” Fallon said. “You have
to take it seriously. You’re entering a triathlon, you probably
should have done the work.”  Bloomberg Businessweek, whose parent company Bloomberg LP
owns Bloomberg News, is one of the sponsors of the New York City
Triathlon.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  