-- Roach Says China Has Scope for More Rate Cuts as Inflation Slows
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h   a n d   S u s a n   L i
-- 2012-07-06T02:19:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/roach-says-china-has-scope-for-more-rate-cuts-as-inflation-slows.html
China has scope for further
reductions in  interest rates  as growth and inflation slow in the
world’s second-largest economy, according to  Stephen Roach ,
former non-executive chairman for Morgan Stanley in Asia.  “The People’s Bank of China has plenty of ammunition
left,” Roach, a professor at  Yale University  in New Haven,
Connecticut, said in an interview with Bloomberg Television.
“There’s plenty of room for additional easing, and actually
their interest rates are pretty high in inflation-adjusted, or
real terms.”  China cut  rates  last night for the second time in four
weeks and ahead of a report due July 9 that may show the slowest
 inflation  in 29 months, according to a Bloomberg News survey.
The move came as the  European Central Bank  also reduced
borrowing costs and the Bank of England boosted an asset-
purchase program, highlighting concern that worldwide demand is
fading.  “There is weakness around the world, in Europe of
course,” and the U.S. economy is soft, Roach said. “The ECB is
pretty much out of ammunition.”  The ECB yesterday reduced its benchmark rate to a record
low of 0.75 percent and took its deposit rate to zero, with
President  Mario Draghi  saying the cuts may have only a “muted”
economic impact.  China’s gross domestic product probably grew 7.8 percent in
the second quarter from a year earlier, down from 8.1 percent in
the three months through March, a Bloomberg News  survey  showed
before a government report due July 13.  “You’ll see a slower gross domestic product number in the
second quarter,” Roach said. “But I think it’ll still be a
Chinese economy that’s on a soft-landing and not a hard-landing
trajectory, so I don’t think this is a sign of panic. I think
it’s a measured cut to prevent inflation-adjusted, or real
interest rates, from rising sharply in a slower inflationary
climate.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Li in Hong Kong at 
 sli31@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brendan Murray at 
 brmurray@bloomberg.net  