-- Romania President Faces Impeachment Referendum in Power Struggle
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2012-07-06T21:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/romania-president-faces-impeachment-referendum-in-power-struggle.html
Romanian President Traian Basescu has
less than a month to regain public support and defeat a
referendum on his impeachment after the ruling coalition won the
upper hand in a parliamentary vote.  The legislature, dominated by Prime Minister Victor Ponta’s
Social Liberal Union, or USL, voted 256 to 114 to suspend
Basescu yesterday, saying the president overstepped his duties
when announcing budget cuts in 2010 and making other economic
decisions. Romanians will vote on July 29 to decide his fate,
Senate Leader Crin Antonescu said after the vote.  Ponta, riding public anger over austerity measures, is
looking to remove Basescu two months after becoming the third
premier this year in the country preparing for parliamentary
elections in November or December. The impeachment attempt is
fueling political turmoil, which pushed the leu to a record low.  “I have a clear conscience that I fulfilled my duty
towards the country and my people,” Basescu told lawmakers
yesterday. “Please take care of the country, respect the law,
create jobs and -- the most important -- don’t touch the
judicial system or the state institutions.”  The leu has weakened 1.6 percent against the euro this
week, the world’s second-worst performance behind the Sudanese
pound. It sank to a record-low 4.5465 against  Europe ’s common
currency yesterday and traded at 4.5340 at 7:53 p.m. in
Bucharest, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The cost of insuring against a Romanian default for five
years using credit-default swaps rose to 430 basis points from
407 basis points on July 5, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  ‘Get Worse’  “Unfortunately the situation looks set to get worse before
it gets better and could drag on for some time,” Peter Attard Montalto, an economist at  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)  in  London , wrote
yesterday in a note to clients. “With further upside in euro-
leu, we think rate hikes are becoming much more likely. We are
more concerned about the long-run fiscal shifts that can occur
as we move through the second half of the year and towards the
2013 budget.”  Basescu lost public support after announcing budget
measures in 2010. People’s trust in him was about 17 percent in
a March 23-April 1 survey of 1,096 people by polling company
CSOP, which gave a margin of error of 3 percentage points.  Ponta’s coalition was emboldened by its victory in June 10
local elections, when it garnered almost 50 percent of the vote
against almost 16 percent for Basescu’s Democrat-Liberal party.
The ruling alliance would get 60 percent in a parliamentary vote
to 14.5 percent for the Democrat-Liberals, according to a May
9-15 survey of 1,038 Romanians by the IMAS polling company. The
results have a margin of error of 3 percentage points.  Budget Cuts  Basescu’s party cut state wages by 25 percent and raised
taxes to narrow a  budget deficit  and meet pledges to the
International Monetary Fund and the European Union. Former Prime
Minister Emil Boc stepped down Feb. 6 to ease political and
social pressure amid nationwide anti-austerity protests.  His successor, Mihai-Razvan Ungureanu, lost an April 27 no-
confidence vote in parliament as the  Social Democrats  and
Liberals gathered 235 votes to topple his government.  The two sides, which trace their origins to the National
Salvation Front that ruled the country after the collapse of
communism in 1989, have been jostling over budget measures and
control of the judiciary.  The struggle worsened on June 19 after Ponta blamed Basescu
for spreading accusations that he plagiarized his doctoral
thesis. Two days later, Ponta’s mentor and former Prime Minister
Adrian Nastase was sentenced to two-years in prison in a
corruption case. A subsequent suicide attempt by Nastase
prompted Ponta to say “I hope Basescu is happy now.”  EU Warning  The two leaders also argued over who should represent
 Romania  at a meeting of EU leaders and expanded their dispute to
the  Constitutional Court .  The European Commission said yesterday in a statement that
the recent developments in Romania “may be putting at risk the
progress done by the country in the past years under a
Cooperation and Verification Mechanism,” for a judicial
overhaul and the fight against corruption.  The Cabinet is determined to meet all the pledges under the
country’s precautionary agreement with the International
Monetary Fund and the EU, Ponta said yesterday.  ‘Secure Stability’  “The concerns of our European and international partners
are legitimate but we want to assure them that the government
will secure the country’s stability,” Ponta said in a speech
from Romania’s government palace in Bucharest. “The political
conflict won’t affect the state institutions as the government
will respect all the decisions of the Constitutional Court and
the rule of law.”  Starting late-July, a joint mission of the  International
Monetary Fund , the EU and the  World Bank  will review the
country’s progress under a 5 billion-euro ($6.2 billion)
precautionary accord secured last year as a safeguard against
Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis.  Yesterday’s vote is the culmination of maneuvering by the
Social Democrats and Liberals to strengthen their power after
spending the past three years in opposition.  They have pushed through several changes to ease the
impeachment procedure and on July 4 limited the powers of the
Constitutional Court by decree to prevent it from impeding a
suspension procedure. The coalition changed the heads of the two
chambers of parliament, who are the next in line in case the
president is removed. The Democrat-Liberal Party challenged the
changes at the Constitutional Court.  The government on July 5 approved a change in the law
governing referenda, making a balloting for impeachment valid
with a majority of participants, rather than with more than 50
percent of eligible voters.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net ;
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  