-- Romney Declaration on Health Mandate Tax May Boomerang
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2012-07-06T14:59:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/romney-declaration-on-health-mandate-tax-may-boomerang.html
Mitt Romney ’s assertion that
President  Barack Obama ’s mandate to buy health insurance amounts
to a tax increase may boomerang by opening the presumptive
Republican nominee to the same charge.  As governor of Massachusetts, Romney championed a state
health-care plan with a similar mandate to buy insurance -- one
he says today should be described as a penalty not a tax boost.
He also raised hundreds of millions of dollars for the
Massachusetts budget by ending some tax benefits for businesses
and approving higher fees on professional licenses and
identification cards for the blind.  The fees and corporate tax changes allowed Romney to close
a projected $3 billion state budget gap, while preserving his
pledge not to raise taxes. Not everyone saw it that way.  “Any time the government mandates that you buy something
or imposes a penalty, it’s a tax by any other name,” said Matt Kibbe, president of FreedomWorks, a group aligned with the anti-
tax  Tea Party  movement. Kibbe said he still intends to support
Romney.  The shifting political rhetoric means Romney is “playing
defense,” said  Dan Schnur , director of the Jesse M. Unruh
Institute of Politics at the University of  Southern California 
and former communications adviser to Republican  Arizona  Senator
 John McCain ’s 2008 presidential campaign. “Romney doesn’t want
to talk about Massachusetts. He wants to talk about what’s wrong
with the American economy.”  Primary Attack  The line of attack on Romney, the presumptive Republican
presidential nominee, isn’t new: In primary debates, opponent
 Rick Santorum  highlighted the fee increases. An Obama campaign
ad charges him with enacting “over 1,000 fee hikes” on such
services as school bus rides, hospitals and health care.  In an interview with a Cincinnati television station, Obama
framed Romney’s comments as a flip-flop done for political
convenience. Romney’s characterization of the mandate as a tax
reversed six years of calling it a penalty, Obama said.  “The question becomes, are you doing that because of
politics?” the president said in the interview, airing today.
“Are you abandoning a principle that you fought for, for six
years simply because you’re getting pressure for two days from
 Rush Limbaugh  or some critics in Washington?”  Democrats Wary  Still, it’s a turn in the political conversation that
troubles some Democrats, too.  “Why does the Obama campaign want to have a fight over who
raised the most taxes?” said  Tad Devine , a Democratic political
strategist,  Speaking to reporters yesterday, Obama spokeswoman  Jen Psaki  dismissed the discussion over whether the mandate is a
penalty or a tax as a “silly debate.”  The Romney campaign has tried to measure its message,
claiming during the Republican primaries that the mandate in the
Massachusetts law was a penalty, not a tax.  Keeping with that depiction,  Eric Fehrnstrom , a senior
campaign adviser, said in a July 2 interview that Romney held
the same view of the federal mandate to buy insurance. He
described it as a “penalty or a fee or a fine.”  Fehrnstrom’s response conflicted with that of congressional
leaders who said the June 28 Supreme Court ruling upholding the
2010 Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act was based on the
assumption that the mandate is essentially a tax.  Obama’s ‘Tax’  In an interview with  CBS News  two days after Fehrnstrom’s
appearance, Romney brought his position in line with that of his
party, declaring Obama’s mandate a “tax.”  Still, he said the  opinion  written by Chief Justice  John Roberts , an appointee of Republican President  George W. Bush ,
differentiated what he did as governor because states have the
power to constitutionally mandate purchases using mechanisms
other than taxes.  “States have the power to put in place mandates. They
don’t need to require them to be called taxes in order for them
to be constitutional,” Romney said. “As a result,
Massachusetts’s mandate was a mandate, was a penalty, was
described that way by the legislature and by me.”  His campaign has made a similar argument about the higher
fees imposed during his term as governor, saying they can’t be
considered tax increases because they were charges for specific
services. Romney spokeswoman Andrea Saul declined to comment
yesterday.  Increased Fees  A National Conference of State Legislatures study said
 Massachusetts  imposed more than $501.5 million in fee increases
in 2003, more than any other state. Those included raising the
cremation inspection fee to $75 from $50, increasing the
application fee for a pesticide examination to $50 from $25, and
raising the fee for marriage licenses to $50 from $4. Blind
citizens were required to pay a new $15 renewal charge for
identification cards.  The fees were part of Romney’s plan to close the projected
$3 billion budget gap facing Massachusetts when he entered
office in 2003. Romney raised another $309 million between 2003
and 2005 by ending tax breaks for business, according to the
Boston Globe. Those included banning the use of tax-free real
estate trusts and cracking down on the use of shell corporations
to shelter income. Romney described the measures as closing tax
loopholes. Business leaders considered them tax increases.  Republican anti-tax activists now dismiss much of that
criticism.  Grover Norquist , the president of Americans for  Tax
Reform , described Romney’s gubernatorial record as almost
irrelevant, saying his more recent pledges to cut spending and
taxes make the choice in November an obvious one.  “Who cares? That’s yesterday,” he said. “This is now all
about: vote for Obama, get tax increases and massive new
spending. Vote for Romney all of that goes away.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  