-- Peso Leads Gains in Asian Currencies on Global Easing Efforts
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2012-07-06T22:30:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/rupee-leads-gains-in-asian-currencies-this-week-on-global-easing.html
The Philippine peso led gains in
Asian currencies this week on optimism central banks in the
world’s biggest economies will boost efforts to arrest a global
slump.  The People’s Bank of  China  and the  European Central Bank 
 lowered   interest rates  July 5 and the  Bank of England  expanded a
bond-purchase program. The peso reached a four-year high as
 Standard & Poor’s  upgraded the debt rating for the  Philippines ,
while the yuan fell on speculation China will favor a weaker
currency to support exports. The  International Monetary Fund 
will cut its estimate for worldwide growth this year, Managing
Director  Christine Lagarde  said yesterday.  “Developing nations are in an easing mode while this
region’s economic condition is better than other areas,” said
Kozo Hasegawa, a Bangkok-based trader at Sumitomo Mitsui Banking
Corp. “So fund inflows into the region were supporting the
currencies. There remain uncertain factors with Europe’s debt
crisis lingering.”  The peso gained 0.9 percent from a week ago to 41.792 per
dollar in  Manila , according to Tullett Prebon Plc. South Korea’s
won advanced 0.7 percent to 1,137.99 and Thailand’s baht rose
0.4 percent to 31.63, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The rupee rose 0.3 percent to 55.4550. The  yuan  dropped 0.16
percent, the biggest five-day loss in a month, to 6.3644. Nine
of the 11 most-traded Asian currencies declined yesterday.  Global funds pumped $461 million into the Indonesian,
Philippine and South Korean stock markets this week through July
5, exchange data show.  Global Slowdown  China cut the one-year lending and deposit rates after two
local manufacturing indexes fell last month. Services output
shrank in June for a fifth month in the euro area, unexpectedly
contracted in Germany and grew less than forecast in the U.K.,
reports showed this week. The U.S. Institute for Supply
Management said July 5 its non-manufacturing  index  dropped to
52.1 in June, the lowest level since January 2010.  “The global growth outlook will be somewhat less than we
anticipated just three months ago,” IMF’s Lagarde said in a
speech in  Tokyo , referring to an April estimate of 3.5 percent.
“And even that lower projection will depend on the right policy
actions being taken.” The new prediction is due to be announced
in 10 days.  The rupee touched its strongest level since May as global
funds bought $855 million more Indian stocks than they sold in
the first three days of the week, set for the  biggest  weekly net
purchases since the period ended on March 16, according to
exchange data.  Philippines Upgraded  The peso completed a second weekly advance as the
Philippines’s long-term foreign currency-denominated debt was
upgraded one level to BB+ from BB by S&P this week. That’s one
step below investment grade and the highest since 2003.  The won posted a sixth week of appreciation, the longest
winning streak since October 2010, as overseas investors bought
$182 million more Korean stocks than they sold in the last four
days.  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , South Korea’s biggest exporter,
posted a record quarterly profit yesterday that beat analyst
estimates as surging sales of Galaxy smartphones helped it
challenge Apple Inc.’s iPhone. Operating profit totaled 6.7
trillion won ($5.9 billion) in the second quarter, a 79 percent
jump from a year earlier, the company said.  “Foreign money keeps flowing into Korean stocks and this,
coupled with demand from exporters, pushed the won higher this
week,” said Lee Jung Hyun, a currency dealer at state-run
 Industrial Bank of Korea (024110)  in Seoul. “The market’s reaction to
China’s rate cut is muted with traders largely keeping a nervous
eye on what’s going on in Europe.”  Yuan Outlook  The yuan weakened 0.13 percent yesterday in Shanghai,
according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System. The PBOC
lowered the  reference rate  by 0.09 percent to 6.3249. The
currency is allowed to trade as much as 1 percent on either side
of the daily fixing.  “The yuan’s outlook will be obviously even dimmer given
the recognition of a softer domestic economy and a stronger
dollar,” said Andy Ji, a Singapore-based strategist at
 Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) , the most-accurate forecaster of
the Chinese currency in the past six quarters. Ji said in a
separate interview this week that he’s currently reviewing
forecasts for the yuan and will probably trim estimates as he
expected the PBOC to curb gains.  Elsewhere, Indonesia’s rupiah rose 0.3 percent from a week
ago to 9,405 per dollar, while Malaysia’s ringgit slid 0.3
percent to 3.1788. Taiwan’s dollar slid 0.1 percent to NT$29.922
and Vietnam’s dong was little changed at 20,880.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 