-- Sagan Wins Third Tour de France Stage as Schleck Loses Time
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2012-07-06T16:16:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/sagan-wins-third-tour-de-france-stage-as-schleck-loses-time.html
Slovakia’s Peter Sagan won his third
stage in his first week at the  Tour de France  as race contender
 Frank Schleck  lost time.  The 22-year-old Sagan, riding in his first Tour, beat Andre Greipel by a bike’s length at the end of stage six: a 129-mile
ride on flat terrain between Epernay and Metz. Matthew Goss was
third.  Sagan, who rides for the Liquigas team, became the youngest
stage winner since  Lance Armstrong  in 1993 when he took the
first stage on July 1. He kept the green jersey worn by the
leader of the points classification.  Switzerland’s  Fabian Cancellara  kept the race-leading
yellow jersey. He has a  seven-second  advantage over Bradley Wiggins and Sylvain Chavanel. Defending champion  Cadel Evans  is
10 seconds further back.  Schleck, third overall last year behind his younger brother
Andy, was among several riders to fall in a crash 16 miles from
the end. He dropped six places to 37th overall -- 2 minutes, 43
seconds behind Cancellara.  Giro d’Italia winner Ryder Hesjedal was also involved in
the pile-up, and dropped 99 places to 108th overall. He’s 13
minutes, 38 seconds behind Cancellara.  The crash slowed Team Sky’s world champion  Mark Cavendish ,
preventing him from getting in a position to fight for the stage
win. Greipel had recovered after twice falling off his bike
earlier in the stage.  David Zabriskie, who rides for the Garmin-Sharp team,
started a four-man breakaway near the start. He went solo near
the end and tried to take the stage win before being caught with
less than a mile to go.  Zabriskie is one of four former teammates of Armstrong who
agreed to testify in the U.S. Anti-Doping Agency’s case against
the seven-time Tour de France champion and some of his
associates, the New York Times reported today, citing two people
close to the investigation.  The  20-stage race  continues tomorrow with a ride that ends
with a mountain-top finish to La Planche des Belles Filles, a
ski resort in the Haute-Saone region of eastern  France .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  