-- Samaras Pledges Asset Sales to Jump-Start Greek Program
-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s ,   N a t a l i e   W e e k s   a n d   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n
-- 2012-07-06T19:15:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/samaras-pleges-asset-sales-to-jump-start-greek-program.html
Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras
pledged to bring his country’s economic reform plan back on
track, promising sweeping state-asset sales that will boost
investment and jobs, and help break the country’s recessionary
spiral.  “The first battle this government must give is the battle
of the obvious, the self-evident,” Samaras told lawmakers in
Athens today, at the start of three days of debate on a motion
of confidence in his government. “This is a government that
must tell the truth from the very first, such as the truth that,
once again, the fiscal adjustment program has genuinely gone off
track.”  Greece’s coalition government, formed after Samaras’s  New
Democracy  narrowly beat anti-bailout party Syriza in a second
election on June 17, is hoping to renegotiate some of the
tougher austerity measures in the second, 130 billion-euro
($160 billion) rescue as the country suffers through a fifth
year of recession. The concessions may be hard to wring from
some European Union leaders, after the euro area and
 International Monetary Fund  pledged a total of 240 billion euros
in aid for Greece.  Two elections in the space of six weeks have dealt a blow
to Greek progress on cutting deficits and implementing reforms
ranging from a health-care overhaul to tax collection. The
measures are part of a package of promises to the EU,  European
Central Bank  and IMF in return for bailout funds. The political
instability sparked concern that Greece would leave the euro
area.  Recessionary Cycle  Samaras said in his speech that the coalition’s primary aim
was to break the country’s recessionary cycle, not feed it with
more austerity measures. Asset sales not already agreed with
international creditors, including rail transport and energy,
will “bring investments, jobs and growth,” he said.  “With the additional state asset sales measures we will
tackle the additional cost of the program with our own
resources,” he said. He said that the deficit falls by 1
billion euros for each percentage point gained in GDP growth.  Samaras’s government is backed by socialist Pasok and the
Democratic Left party, which gives him 179 seats in the 300-seat
chamber. The parliament will vote on the confidence motion at
midnight on July 8. Finance Minister Yannis Stournaras and the
leader of opposition Syriza will speak tomorrow.  Asset Sales  The government’s emphasis on state asset sales sets up a
clash with Syriza, the second-biggest party in the Parliament,
which has said that negotiations with the so-called troika of
official creditors are pointless.  Syriza will take legal action if the government moves ahead
with asset sales, Syriza lawmaker Dimitris Stratoulis said on
Athens-based Mega TV today. If Syriza becomes  Greece ’s next
government it will “even send to jail those who sell off the
country’s assets for peanuts”, he said.  Unemployment in Greece has soared to a record amid a slump
deepened by austerity measures linked to the two bailouts Greece
has received. Gross domestic product contracted 6.5 percent in
the first quarter from a year earlier.  Samaras said his coalition will close or merge dozens of
state agencies and the country must conquer red tape if it is to
attract investment. The government will show determination to
crack down on corruption and fraud that deprives the state of
revenue.  “We don’t want to change the goals, we want to change
those things that are obstacles to our goals,” he said. “The
recession has to end, not constantly be reinforced.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Petrakis in  Athens  at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net ;
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net ;
Natalie Weeks in Athens at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at   sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  