-- Samsung Denied Request for Immediate Stay of Galaxy Tab Ban
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2012-07-06T23:07:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/samsung-denied-request-for-immediate-stay-of-galaxy-tab-ban-1-.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  lost an
emergency bid to resume selling the Galaxy Tab 10.1 tablet
computer while it has at least another week to sell its Galaxy
Nexus smartphone in the U.S., a U.S. appeals court ruled.  The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit  today 
said a ban on sales of the Galaxy Nexus will be put on hold at
least until it considers  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s response to Samsung’s
appeal of the ban. Earlier today, the court  denied  Samsung’s
request to put the sales ban of the Galaxy Tab on hold. Apple
was ordered to respond to both appeals by July 12.  Apple and Samsung, the world’s two biggest makers of
smartphones, are locked in a battle for market share that spans
four continents. Together, they make more than half of the
smartphones sold worldwide, according to IDC, a Framingham,
Massachusetts-based market researcher.  U.S. District Judge Lucy Koh issued the ban on the Galaxy
Tab June 26 after finding that Apple would probably win its
claim that the Tab copied a patented design owned by the
Cupertino, California-based smartphone maker. She had denied the
request in December, and the Federal Circuit ordered her to
reconsider.  Three days after the Galaxy Tab order, Koh imposed a ban on
the Galaxy Nexus smartphone, saying Apple was likely to win its
claims that Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung infringes four
valid patents, including one for a search feature that captures
results from multiple sources, such as the Internet and e-mail
contacts.  Android System  The Galaxy Nexus is the first phone to run on the Ice Cream
Sandwich version of  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android operating system, the
most popular platform for mobile devices, Koh said in her
opinion.  “We’re going to continue to work the courts process, but
simultaneously we’re working with Google because the patent in
question involves their unified search function,” Teri Daley, a
spokeswoman for Samsung’s mobile unit, said in an interview.  The Galaxy Tab case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics
Co., 12-1506, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit
( Washington ). The lower court Galaxy Tab case is Apple Inc. v.
Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., 11-cv-01846, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of  California  ( San Jose ).  The Galaxy Nexus case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics
Co., 12-1507,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit
(Washington). The lower court Galaxy Nexus case is Apple Inc. v.
Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., 12-cv-00630, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of California (San Jose).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  