-- Samsung Said to Plan Windows RT Tablet for October Debut
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g   a n d   I a n   K i n g
-- 2012-07-07T00:41:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/samsung-said-to-plan-windows-rt-tablet-for-october-introduction.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , the largest
phone maker, will release a tablet that features  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT) ’s Windows RT software when the operating system debuts,
people with knowledge of the matter said.  Samsung has made a handheld computer built on Windows RT,
the first version of Windows that works on  ARM Holdings Plc (ARM) 
technology, said the people, who asked not to be identified
because the plans haven’t been made public. Windows RT devices
will be released in October, one person said.  The decision to support Windows RT follows Samsung’s
earlier announcement that it will back another version of
Windows. It’s a boon to Microsoft’s effort to use multiple
versions of its flagship Windows operating system to challenge
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  in tablets. Microsoft suffered a setback last week
when  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) , the world’s largest computer maker,
said it won’t back Windows RT from the get-go.  Hewlett-Packard plans to introduce a tablet with Windows 8,
the version of the software that works only on so-called x86
chips, made by Intel Corp. and  Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD)   Windows RT is the first mainstream computer operating
system from Microsoft to be built for a touch-screen device and
work on the energy-sipping chips typically used in smartphones.
Most traditional desktop computers are powered by x86
processors.  Samsung’s Windows RT tablet will feature  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) ’s
Snapdragon processor, the people said. Windows RT has created an
opportunity for phone-chip makers Qualcomm,  Texas Instruments
Inc. (TXN)  and  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA)  to compete against Intel and AMD for
orders in the computer industry.  Microsoft’s Shift  Microsoft announced plans last month to release its own
tablet device, the Surface, in a strategy shift that has the
potential to rankle device makers that widely use its software.  Apple led the tablet market at the end of the first
quarter, with 11.8 million units shipped, or a 58 percent share,
according researcher IHS ISuppli Inc. Samsung was second, with
11 percent, followed by Amazon.com Inc., which had 5.8 percent.  The iPad is based on ARM technology, as are most tablets on
sale today. Intel has struggled to make inroads with consumers
purchasing mobile devices with its chips, as ARM-based tablets
have had better battery life. ARM machines running the new
version of Windows will only be able to use new applications
written for Windows 8 and Windows RT, while the x86 machines can
run a much wide range of older Windows apps.  Mark Martin , a spokesman for Redmond, Washington-based
Microsoft, declined to comment, as did Andy Phillips, a
spokesman for Cambridge, England-based ARM. Nam Ki Yung, a
Seoul-based spokesman for Samsung, and Emily Kilpatrick, a
spokeswoman for San Diego-based Qualcomm, also declined to
comment.  Samsung dropped 2 percent to 1,161,000 won yesterday at the
Seoul close. Microsoft fell 1.7 percent to $30.19 at the New
York close.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net ;
Ian King in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  