-- Seven Held in U.K. Terror Probe, Weapons Found in Vehicle
-- B y   S o f i a   H o r t a   e   C o s t a
-- 2012-07-06T12:22:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/seven-held-in-u-k-terror-probe-after-weapons-found-in-vehicle.html
U.K. police detained seven men in a
series of counter-terrorism arrests this week after several
weapons were found in a vehicle in central England.  The men are being held on suspicion of commissioning,
preparing or instigating terrorist acts, the West Midlands
Police said in a statement today. Police on June 30 found
firearms and “offensive weapons” hidden in the vehicle that
was on the M1 highway in South Yorkshire.  Police throughout the U.K. are tightening security in a 66-
day operation to keep the country safe during the  Olympic Games ,
which start July 27. An additional 9,500 police officers will be
deployed in  London  on the busiest days of the games, the
 Metropolitan Police Service  in the city said.  The men in custody range in age from 22 to 43 and the items
found in the vehicle are undergoing forensic analysis, police
said. The arrests followed a routine traffic stop on June 30.  “As soon as the items were discovered in the impounded
vehicle, our priority was to protect the public by pursuing and
arresting those we believed to be involved,” said Detective
Chief Superintendent Kenny Bell, head of the West Midlands
Counter Terrorism Unit, which is leading the investigation.  Six people were arrested in London yesterday as part of a
terrorism probe. The arrests and searches weren’t linked to the
Games, the MPS said.  In a separate incident, police closed a major highway in
central  England  for more than four hours yesterday in what
proved to be a false-alarm. Police stopped the bus and shut the
road after passengers said they saw vapor escaping from a bag
that turned out to be a “health-improvement aid for smokers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sofia Horta e Costa in London at 
 shortaecosta@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  