-- Byrd, Beljan Lead Greenbrier; Woods, Mickelson Might Miss Cut
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2012-07-06T19:25:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/singh-leads-greenbrier-golf-by-one-woods-mickelson-trail-by-8.html
Jonathan Byrd  and Charlie Beljan
share a one-shot lead at the Greenbrier Classic, where  Tiger Woods  and  Phil Mickelson  are in danger of missing the two-round
cut for the first time together as professionals.  Byrd and Beljan are at 8 under for the tournament at the
Greenbrier’s Old White TPC course in White Sulphur Springs,  West
Virginia . They are one-shot ahead of J.B. Holmes and Jeff Maggert.  Byrd shot a 2-under 68 today, while Beljan, a 27-year-old
PGA Tour rookie, had a 62 after being 9-under par through his
first 16 holes. Beljan missed an opportunity to become the sixth
player to shoot 59 on the Tour when he ended his round with a
par and a bogey. Australia’s  Stuart Appleby  was the last player
to accomplish the feat, shooting 59 in the final round to win
the 2010 Greenbrier event.  Beljan has missed the 36-hole cut in six of the 10 full
events he has played on the Tour. His best finish came at last
month’s Travelers Championship, tying for 29th.  Woods is 1 over through his first six holes today and 2
over for the tournament, three shots higher than the projected
36-hole cut. Mickelson is also 2 over after consecutive rounds
of 71, marking his seventh straight over-par round, the longest
stretch of his career.  If Mickelson and Woods both miss the cut, it would mark the
first time that both players failed to qualify for weekend play
in the same event as professionals.  The Greenbrier is Woods’s last event before the British
Open, the third of four annual major championships, which is
scheduled for July 19-22 at Royal Lytham & St. Annes in
northwest England.  Woods won the AT&T National on July 1 for his third title
this year. The victory was his 74th on the Tour, breaking a tie
with  Jack Nicklaus  for the second-most in history behind  Sam Snead ’s 82.  Woods is playing in the 3-year-old Greenbrier event for the
first time. Snead was the head professional at the Greenbrier
Resort from the late 1930s until his death in 2002.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Buteau in Atlanta  at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  