-- Spain Bank Aid to Be Channeled Through Government, EU Aide Says
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2012-07-06T14:46:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/spain-bank-aid-to-be-channeled-through-government-eu-aide-says.html
Europe  won’t obtain the powers to
recapitalize banks directly in time for the injection of as much
as 100 billion euros ($123 billion) into Spain’s  financial
system  by mid-2013, a European official said.  Spain’s bank-aid program, to be endorsed by European
finance ministers next week, will channel the money via a
Spanish state agency, the official told reporters in Brussels
today on condition of anonymity.  No formal decisions will come at the July 9 meeting, which
will also offer a first glimpse of  Greece ’s plea for a
relaxation of its bailout terms and take up Cyprus’s call for
banking aid, the official said.  A three-day slump in Spanish and Italian bonds puts euro-
area governments under mounting pressure to act, especially
after the  European Central Bank  offered no hint of market-relief
measures yesterday.  A delay in the startup of the euro area’s permanent bailout
fund -- originally set to be declared operational at the
gathering -- caps the rescue firepower at about 240 billion
euros for a few more weeks.  Political and legal wrangles in  Germany  and  Italy  put off
the setup of the 500 billion-euro European Stability Mechanism
until at some point in the summer, the official said without
pinning down a date.  Direct capital injections by the ESM into banks are
unlikely to be authorized before two waves of Spanish
recapitalizations are completed by the middle of next year, the
official said.  Supervisor Pledge  While direct infusions would avoid adding debt to the
stressed government’s balance sheet, they won’t be possible
until Europe makes good on a June 29 summit pledge to create a
single banking supervisor.  An agreement in principle on  Spain ’s program next week will
be followed by the signing of a formal memorandum of
understanding by the end of July, the official said. The full
cost won’t be known until an assessment of bank-by-bank needs
due in September.  Greece’s new government, meanwhile, will test creditor
countries’ appetite to ease its bailout conditions when Finance
Minister Yannis Stournaras attends his first euro meeting.  Greece has some leeway to shift the composition of taxing
and spending to meet its  deficit-reduction targets , without
renegotiating the targets themselves, the official said.  Elections Delay  A four-month policymaking hiatus due to two elections has
cost time and Greece can’t count on the next installment from a
240 billion-euro commitment in aid until it proves that its
economic-overhaul strategy is back on track, the official said.  Decisions on the next Greek disbursement aren’t likely
until August, the official said. The same timeline is likely for
Cyprus, which filed for aid after the Greek debt restructuring
hammered its banking system, the official added.  Finance ministers are also likely to fill a vacancy on the
central bank’s Executive Board, in a contest between Yves Mersch
of Luxembourg and Antonio Sainz de Vicuna of Spain, the official
said.  Filling the ECB slot, empty since June 1, will make it
easier to reach agreement on two other posts, the official said.
One is whether to keep Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude
Juncker  as chairman of euro finance meetings or appoint a
replacement. Juncker’s term expires on July 17.  Also in play is the top job at the ESM permanent bailout
fund. Germany has nominated Klaus Regling, head of the temporary
fund, to manage the permanent one as well.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  