-- Statement by the IMF Mission to Ukraine (Text)
-- B y   A i n h o a   G o y e n e c h e
-- 2012-07-06T18:49:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/statement-by-the-imf-mission-to-ukraine-text-.html
Following is the text of the mission
statement from the International Monetary Fund visit to  Ukraine :  IMF Executive Board Concludes 2012 Article IV Consultation with
Ukraine  On June 29, 2012, the Executive Board of the International
Monetary Fund (IMF) concluded the Article IV consultation
with Ukraine.  Background  Ukraine had a strong economic recovery in 2010-11, following
the deep recession ensuing from the 2008-09 global crisis.
However, recovery is now slowing. Lower demand for Ukraine’s
exports and slow credit growth are weighing on economic growth,
which is projected at 3 percent this year. Inflation is projected
to rise to 7.4 percent during the year, reflecting wage pressures
and rising food prices. Weakening external demand is expected to
widen the current account deficit to 6.5 percent of GDP.  Risks remain elevated in an uncertain global environment.
A significant contraction in global demand, commodity price shocks,
or deleveraging by European banks would pose risks to external
stability given Ukraine’s high external financing requirements.  Following a 3.1 percent of GDP government deficit improvement in 2011,
the fiscal position is now under pressure. Public debt fell from 41 to
36 percent in 2011 and pension reform improved medium-term fiscal
prospects. This year, a supplementary budget has increased wage and
pension expenditures and absent increased revenue collection to finance
this, staff projects the general government deficit at 3¼ percent of
GDP, compared to a target of 1.8 percent. The state-owned gas company’s
deficit is projected to reach 2 percent of GDP this year, adding to
the weight of the general government deficit on public finances.  The current tight monetary stance aims at addressing external risks
and containing inflation. However, this combined with deleveraging by
banks has constrained credit growth. Liquidity tightening as well as
prudential and administrative measures have contributed to exchange
rate stability.  Banking sector reforms have advanced although balance sheets remain
week. The banking system appears well capitalized. Nonetheless,
profitability is near zero, nonperforming loans remain high, and
banks balance sheets remain exposed to currency movements. Measures
have also been taken to deregulate the economy and to simplify the
tax and customs codes that have the potential to improve the business
environment.  Executive Board Assessment  Executive Directors welcomed the progress made by Ukraine since the
2008-09 crisis, including the rebound in growth, and the decline in
inflation and in the general government deficit. Directors also
commended the authorities’ efforts to advance several reforms,
particularly the approval of the pension law and the new tax and
customs codes. They noted, however, that the country faces lingering
vulnerabilities due to low reserve cover, large external and fiscal
funding needs, and the difficult external environment. Directors
stressed the need for strengthened policies and reforms to reduce
these vulnerabilities, build buffers for domestic and external
stability, and improve mediumterm growth prospects.  Directors underscored that fiscal consolidation remains a priority.
They welcomed the authorities’ determination to meet the 2012 deficit
target and encouraged them to identify quickly contingency measures
to safeguard against possible shortfalls. Over the medium term,
continued efforts will be needed to strengthen public revenue,
reform the public sector, and reorient spending towards growthenhancing
priorities.  Directors stressed that a comprehensive reform of the energy sector
is critical to reduce the strain on the budget and gain energy
independence. They urged the authorities to gradually increase gas
and heating tariffs and enhance payment compliance. Increases in
domestic energy prices will be essential to bring supply and demand
into balance, alongside increased investment in domestic energy
production. Energy efficiency improvements and bettertargeted subsidies
to protect the poorest should also be important components of the
energy sector strategy.  Directors advised that monetary policy should focus more on  price
stability . They noted that a tighter monetary stance would be warranted
if balance of payments or inflationary pressures intensify. Directors
concurred that gradually increasing exchange rate flexibility would help
mitigate external shocks, strengthen reserves, and preserve competitiveness.
Increased flexibility should be supported by efforts to reduce balance
sheet mismatches in the financial sector, along with fiscal, monetary
and wage policies consistent with maintenance of price stability.  Directors welcomed the progress made in the banking sector. They urged
the authorities to address the remaining weaknesses, notably the high
level of nonperforming loans, low profitability, and currency mismatches,
to allow the sector to fully support economic growth. Directors welcomed
the plans to reduce banking system exposure to foreign exchange risks,
including through limited sales to banks of foreign currency linked
bonds issued by the government. More broadly, Directors encouraged
the authorities to press ahead with their efforts to unwind crisis
era policies.  Directors welcomed progress under the President’s Economic Reform
Plan which aims at promoting growth, improving the business climate,
and attracting investment. Achieving these objectives will require
implementation of comprehensive structural reforms, including stronger
governance and further privatization.  SOURCE:  International Monetary Fund  