-- Statement by the IMF Mission to Indonesia (Text)
-- B y   A i n h o a   G o y e n e c h e
-- 2012-07-06T14:01:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/statement-by-the-imf-mission-to-indonesia-text-.html
Following is the text of the mission
statement from the International Monetary Fund visit to  Indonesia :  Statement at the Conclusion of the 2012 Article IV Consultation
Mission to Indonesia  Mr. Milan Zavadjil, Senior Resident Representative of the
International Monetary Fund (IMF) in Indonesia, released the
following statement today in Jakarta:  “An IMF mission led by Mr. Sanjaya Panth, Division Chief in the
 Asia  and Pacific Department, visited Jakarta during
June 25-July 6, 2012 to conduct the 2012 Article IV Consultation
discussions. The team exchanged views with the government and  Bank
Indonesia  on global economic developments and the Indonesian economic
outlook. The team also met with a wide spectrum of the public and
private representatives. Based on the visit, the team will prepare
a staff report to be presented to the IMF’s Executive Board in
early September.  “Indonesia’s economy continues to perform well. At 6.5 percent,
economic growth in 2011 was the highest in over a decade; inflation
is currently within the central bank’s target range, credit growth
is robust, and measures of business and  consumer confidence  remain
strong.  “In recent months the global economic environment has, however,
shown some signs of renewed weakness, which is having a knock-on
effect on Indonesia. Indonesia’s external current account has turned
from a surplus to a small deficit recently, as exports fell by more
than imports, reflecting a combination of the deteriorating external
environment and continued strong domestic demand. Relatively easy
domestic monetary conditions, combined with the weaker current account,
have contributed to exchange rate pressures during bouts of global
 risk aversion . However, foreign reserves are adequate and the policy
mix of letting the exchange rate adjust and increased supply of
foreign exchange by the central bank is softening the impact.  “Growth is expected to continue to ease modestly in the near term.
The current account should end the year with a deficit of about
1 percent of GDP, which is fully consistent with Indonesia moving
towards its medium-term equilibrium as suggested by fundamentals.
A somewhat widened budget deficit is appropriately helping offset
the impact on growth of slowing external demand. On this basis,
GDP growth is projected at 6.1 percent in 2012 but should pick up again
subsequently. Annual inflation bottomed out at 3.6 percent in January
but has since edged up to 4.5 percent and is expected to reach 5
percent by year-end, still within the authorities’ target range.  “The external environment continues to pose risks to this outlook.
Risks include an intensification of the Euro area problems, as well as
a sharper-than-expected slowdown in  China .  Exchange rate  flexibility,
combined with interventions to smooth temporary sharp mismatches in
supply and demand of foreign exchange, is key to helping buffer the
economy from shocks. A gradual withdrawal of excess liquidity in the
domestic banking system would allow money market rates to continue to
drift back up toward the existing Bank of Indonesia policy rate,
thereby helping strengthen resiliency to capital account pressures.
It would also help arrest any acceleration of inflation and ensure
continued financial sector stability.  “The government remains committed to increase the pace and quality
of economic growth in the medium-term through a sustained increase
in infrastructure investment. While the overall 2012 budget stance
is consistent with the government’s firm commitment to fiscal
sustainability and strong public finances, increasing fuel subsidies
are distorting the structure of the budget. Therefore, fiscal policy
needs to be re-oriented away from poorly targeted subsidies, which
could be replaced with cash transfers to the vulnerable. This would
also free up resources to increase necessary infrastructure and
social spending.  “Implementation of financial sector reforms and improvements to the
supervisory framework are proceeding. Once implemented, they will
enhance financial system stability, promote capital market development,
and widen the domestic investor base. Strengthening investor confidence,
including by maintaining a free and open trade regime and investment
climate, will be important to propel growth further.”  SOURCE:  International Monetary Fund  