-- Statement by the IMF Mission to Vietnam (Text)
-- B y   A i n h o a   G o y e n e c h e
-- 2012-07-06T17:08:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/statement-by-the-imf-mission-to-vietnam-text-.html
Following is the text of the mission
statement from the  International Monetary Fund  visit to  Vietnam :  IMF Executive Board Concludes 2012 Article IV Consultation
with Vietnam  On May 25, 2012, the Executive Board of the International Monetary
Fund (IMF) concluded the Article IV consultation with Vietnam.  Background  As tighter macroeconomic policies were having an effect and the
credibility of the  State Bank  of Vietnam (SBV) was strengthening
significantly, the economy began to stabilize. GDP growth for
2011 decelerated to below 6 percent and declined to 4 percent
year-on-year (y/y) in the first quarter of 2012. Credit growth
slowed to 14.3 percent y/y in 2011, and inflation, after peaking
at 23 percent in August 2011, declined to 10.5 percent in April.
The current account moved to a small surplus of 0.2 percent of
GDP in 2011 from a deficit of over 4 percent in 2010. Confidence
in the Vietnam dong has improved, bringing the informal interbank
 exchange rate  back within the official trading band. Investors,
both domestic and foreign, are shifting into dong assets, allowing
the SBV to increase international reserves significantly in the
first three months of 2012, though they remain low.  The authorities adopted a stabilization package in February 2011
in response to increasing pressures on prices and the exchange
rate in late 2010. As a result, they tightened macroeconomic
policies significantly during 2011. Policy interest rates were
raised, a credit growth ceiling was imposed, and investment by
the government and state-owned enterprises was contained. These
policies had the desired effect, but with the sharper-than-expected
slowdown of the economy and the rapid fall in inflation in early
2012, the SBV reduced policy interest rates three times over three
months since March. The government also began to encourage more
bank credit to strategic sectors (agriculture, SMEs, etc).  The authorities maintained, however, that macroeconomic stability
was of paramount importance. In addition, the authorities have
taken action to address vulnerabilities at a number of small weak
banks. The nine banks classified as weak were placed under the
special inspection, and required to present restructuring and
recapitalization plans for approval by the SBV. The authorities
have also adopted a comprehensive medium-term strategy to strengthen
the financial sector as a whole.  Despite the sharp slowdown in the first quarter, the economy is
projected to stabilize further in 2012 given that the recent
reduction of policy interest rates and a modest fiscal expansion
are expected to cushion adverse effects from slowing domestic and
external demand. As a result, GDP is projected to grow at 6 percent
and inflation to decline to about 10¾ percent for 2012 (8¼ percent
y/y at year-end). International reserves would increase further
from the level reached in March, even as the current account
deficit would rise somewhat. Risks to this scenario are tilted to
the downside. In addition to a slowdown in export markets, there
is a risk that pressures on prices and the exchange rate could
resurface, if the authorities’ commitment to stabilizing the
economy and safeguarding the financial sector is perceived as
waning.  Executive Board Assessment  Executive Directors commended the tightening of macroeconomic
policies in 2011, which contributed to declining inflation,
stabilizing the exchange rate, and a rebuilding of international
reserves. While welcoming the authorities’ commitment to
macroeconomic stability, Directors noted that vulnerabilities
and risks remain. A key challenge will be to balance support for
the slowing economy against the risk of eroding hardwon confidence,
while rebuilding policy buffers. Directors emphasized the need to
resist loosening policies prematurely and to accelerate structural
reforms.  Directors stressed that a cautious monetary policy stance is needed
to build on recent gains in stability. While recognizing that slowing
economic activity and falling inflation provide a basis for policy
easing, Directors recommended that monetary policy give priority to
reducing inflation and rebuilding reserves further. In this context,
Directors emphasized the importance of giving careful consideration
to further cuts in policy rates. In the medium term, the authorities
should move toward marketbased policy instruments and a more
flexible exchange rate regime.  Directors agreed that fiscal policy needs to continue to support
macroeconomic stability, especially in light of the recent sizable
civil service salary adjustment. Noting that some progress has been
made in rationalizing public investment, they recommended focusing
further on containing current nonwage spending and improving the
quality of public spending. They encouraged the implementation of
the planned mediumterm tax reforms to broaden the tax base and
prepare for a decline in oil revenue.  Directors welcomed steps taken to date to contain problems in weak
banks, but urged the authorities to speed up implementation of their
bank restructuring plan. Banks should recognize nonperforming loans,
enhance the size and quality of their capital, and improve corporate
governance. The authorities need to strengthen the supervisory and
regulatory framework, including on bank resolution, and improve
transparency in the banking sector. Directors looked forward to
the forthcoming Financial Sector Assessment Program (FSAP) for
providing reform momentum. They also stressed the importance of
strengthening legislation against  money laundering  and terrorism
financing.  Directors called for intensification of efforts to reform stateowned
enterprises and improve the business environment, both key actions
to enhance growth potential and reduce budgetary and financial sector
risks. They welcomed the plans for equitization and privatization of
a large number of stateowned enterprises, but emphasized that
improving accountability and financial discipline holds the key
for successful reform.  Directors encouraged the authorities to increase the frequency,
quality, and transparency of economic statistics.  SOURCE: International Monetary Fund 