-- Stockton Creditors Hold Few Weapons in Bankruptcy Fight
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-07-06T17:52:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/stockton-creditors-hold-few-weapons-in-bankruptcy-fight.html
Lawyers for Stockton,  California ’s
bondholders, who face a fight with the bankrupt city over
proposed cuts, arrived in court today armed with fewer weapons
than investors owed money by reorganizing companies.  Stockton is trying to become the first American city to use
bankruptcy to successfully impose losses on bondholders.
Bondholders will be limited to two main options if they are to
block Stockton in court, said Lee Bogdanoff, a bankruptcy
attorney: get the case thrown out or defeat the city’s
reorganization proposal.  “The most important power they have is a seat at the
negotiating table,” Bogdanoff, a founding partner of Klee,
Tuchin, Bogdanoff & Stern LLP in  Los Angeles , said in a
telephone interview. “They can try to influence the decision
makers.”  An initial hearing was held today in U.S. Bankruptcy Court
in  Sacramento , where the city proposed a tentative schedule for
the case, which gives bondholders and other creditors until Aug.
24 to decide whether they will try to oppose the city’s
eligibility to remain in bankruptcy. Should any creditor file an
objection to the bankruptcy filing, the city proposed that U.S.
Bankruptcy Judge Christopher Klein, the chief bankruptcy judge
in Sacramento, schedule a hearing for the end of October.  Set Aside  City council members have set aside more than $3 million
for the first year of a bankruptcy court fight with bondholders
and labor unions over how to divide a smaller budget.  Today’s hearing is different from a typical corporate case,
Bogdanoff said. Unlike a company, the city doesn’t need to ask
Klein for permission to pay any bills it ran up before filing
for court protection, such as wages, utility bills or rents. As
a result, creditors won’t be able to use the hearing to pressure
the city on its spending habits, Bogdanoff said.  Chapter 9 of the U.S.  Bankruptcy Code  also bars creditors
from offering their own reorganization plan. Nor are they
entitled to form an official committee with legal fees paid by
the city. Unsecured creditors typically have those rights under
the code’s Chapter 11, which is used by companies to try to stay
in business and reorganize.  Public officials’ fear of alienating the  bond market  may be
bondholders’ most powerful tool, said Jim Spiotto, a bankruptcy
attorney with Chapman & Cutler LLP in  Chicago  who helped write a
book about municipalities in financial distress.  “You have to take into consideration what happens if you
increase the risk perspective in the financial markets,”
Spiotto said. Cutting bond debt today may “increase the cost of
borrowing in the future.”  Jefferson County  Spiotto and Bogdanoff are on opposite sides of the biggest
municipal bankruptcy ever filed in the U.S. Bogdanoff represents
Jefferson County,  Alabama , which is trying to use Chapter 9 to
get bondholders to take less than the $3.2 billion they are
owed. Spiotto represents a group of the county’s creditors.
Neither is involved in the Stockton case.  Stockton on June 28 became the biggest U.S. city to seek
court protection, listing assets of more than $1 billion and
debt of more than $500 million. The collapse of the housing
market left Stockton, a city of about 292,000, to contend with
mounting retiree health-care costs and an eroding tax base in
the wake of the recession, while accounting errors overstated
municipal revenues.  The Chapter 9 petition allows Stockton to suspend payments
to creditors while it seeks court approval for a plan that
balances revenue with debt. Only a negotiated settlement can fix
the city’s finances, Spiotto said. Any city in bankruptcy will
need creditor support to win approval of a so-called plan of
adjustment, he said.  Bloc Vote  “It has to be something where you get creditor buy-in,”
Spiotto said.  William Kannel, a lawyer for bondholder trustee  Wells Fargo
& Co. (WFC) , declined to comment on Stockton’s bankruptcy. Richard Lapping, an attorney who represents creditor National Public
Finance Guarantee Corp., didn’t return a call for comment.  Creditors are particularly powerful when they vote as a
bloc on a plan. Under the bankruptcy code, persuading a judge to
override opposition to a plan from a class of creditors is
harder than defeating objections from individual creditors.  It may be easier for bondholders to make their case outside
of the courtroom by trying to influence elected officials,
Bogdanoff said. Creditors can make campaign contributions to
opposing politicians, or use other forms of political pressure
to persuade officials to compromise, he said.  Great Depression  No U.S. municipality has used bankruptcy to force
bondholders to take less than the full principal due since the
Great Depression in the 1930s, according to Spiotto and  Richard Ciccarone , chief research officer at McDonnell Investment
Management LLC in  Oak Brook ,  Illinois .  The two biggest creditors named in the bankruptcy filing
reflect the groups most likely to face cuts imposed as part of
the case: bondholders and city employees.  Stockton said its biggest unsecured creditor is the
 California Public Employees’ Retirement System , or Calpers, the
largest U.S. pension fund, owed $147.5 million.  It’s followed by Wells Fargo, as trustee for both $124.3
million in pension obligation bonds and for three other sets of
bondholders owed $107 million, according to court papers.  Wells Fargo “expects to take an active role in the
bankruptcy proceedings,”  Elise Wilkinson , a spokeswoman for the
San Francisco-based bank, the nation’s biggest home lender, said
in an e-mail the day Stockton filed bankruptcy. The bank didn’t
lend the city any money, she said.  Failed Talks  Calpers, Wells Fargo and bond insurer  Assured Guaranty Ltd. (AGO) 
were among at least 18 creditors involved in failed talks with
Stockton that began March 27 and were extended to June 25. The
only non-routine question the city has asked Klein to decide
today is whether details about the months-long mediation process
can be made public, according to the court docket.  Assured Guaranty  insured $161.4 million of Stockton’s
bonds, the company said in a statement.  “Assured Guaranty intends to vigorously enforce its rights
as a creditor in any Chapter 9 proceeding, including the right
to contest eligibility and confirmation of any plan of
adjustment proposed by the city,” the company said in a
statement e-mailed by Ashweeta Durani, a spokeswoman.  The case is In re Stockton, 12-32118,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Eastern District of California (Sacramento).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  