-- Stockton Judge Limits Release of Mediation Details
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-07-06T19:35:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/stockton-bankruptcy-judge-limits-release-of-mediation-details.html
The judge overseeing Stockton,
 California ’s bankruptcy limited the amount of information the
city and its creditors can make public about a months-long
mediation process that failed.  On the city’s first day in court, U.S. Bankruptcy Judge
Christopher Klein also said he may ask another judge to be on
call to act as a mediator for a new round of talks between the
city and creditors.  “A successful case will result in what is basically a
consensual plan of adjustment,” Klein said at a hearing in
Sacramento. Under federal law, in order to cut debt and exit
bankruptcy, a city must win court approval for such a plan.  Stockton is trying to become the first American city since
the Great Depression to use bankruptcy to successfully force
bondholders to take less than the principal they are owed. On
June 28, Stockton became the biggest U.S. city to seek court
protection, listing assets of more than $1 billion and debt of
more than $500 million.  Stockton was in court today seeking approval to release all
of the details from a mediation process that ended last month
without a deal. Such talks are required under California law
before a city can file bankruptcy.  Initial Offer  Klein rejected part of the request, which was also backed
by bondholders. Klein said the city can release later this month
its initial 790-page offer to creditors, which the city is
calling its “ask.” Any counteroffers will remain secret, he
said. The city and the bondholders can also release other
details, like how often they met and who was present.  Klein said his goal was to protect the mediation process
and to make sure the bankruptcy case followed federal rules of
evidence, which generally require that offers made during
confidential settlement talks remain secret.  Bondholders and other creditors were given until Aug. 9 to
say whether they will try to force the city out of bankruptcy by
challenging its eligibility to file under Chapter 9 of the U.S.
 Bankruptcy Code .  William Kannel, a lawyer for bondholder trustee  Wells Fargo
& Co. (WFC) , said his clients, who are owed more money than any other
creditor, haven’t decided whether to challenge the bankruptcy
filing.  Lower Rates  No U.S. municipality has used bankruptcy to force
bondholders to take less than the full principal due since the
Great Depression, according to Jim Spiotto, a bankruptcy
attorney, and  Richard Ciccarone , chief research officer at
McDonnell Investment Management LLC in  Oak Brook , Illinois.
Vallejo, California, which exited bankruptcy last year, forced
lenders to reduce their  interest rate .  At least 18 creditors were involved in the failed talks,
which began March 27 and were extended to June 25. They included
the  California Public Employees’ Retirement System , the largest
U.S. pension fund, owed $147.5 million, bond insurer  Assured
Guaranty Ltd. (AGO)  and Wells Fargo, acting as trustee for different
group of bondholders owed $231.3 million.  The case is In re Stockton, 12-32118,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Eastern District of California (Sacramento).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Sacramento at
   schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  