-- Stone’s ‘Savages’; Gruff ‘Ride’; Dueling Brothers: Movies
-- B y   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 2012-07-07T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/stone-s-savages-gruff-ride-dueling-brothers-movies.html
Kneecaps are shot, cars are blown up,
women are abducted, heads roll on the floor and one unlucky suit
gets bullwhipped, doused with gasoline and torched in the Oliver Stone thriller “ Savages .”  It’s about two American hunks ( Taylor Kitsch  and  Aaron
Johnson ) who grow and sell such excellent weed that they attract
the interest of a Mexican cartel.  The body count quickly reached double digits. Then  Salma Hayek  entered as Elena, the head of the cartel, and the movie
ascended to such sublime idiocy that I finally started to enjoy
myself.  Hayek seems to have taken her template from the most famous
of all high-camp performances:  Maria Montez  as the high
priestess of the snake worshipers in the 1944 “ Cobra Woman .”
The high priestess, however, doesn’t have a mall-rat daughter in
L.A. who hates her.  “Savages” comes from a 2010 satirical crime novel by Don
Winslow, who also worked on the screenplay, so the comedy
clearly isn’t unintentional. Still, I doubt that using Brahms on
the soundtrack was Winslow’s idea, or that this solemn excess
was meant to be as funny as I found it.  Stoner Humor  The movie zooms along on a mixture of sex, blood, stoned
humor and mockery of over-privileged California women.  When the cartel kidnaps Ophelia, or O ( Blake Lively ), the
rich, luscious blonde the two growers have happily shared, and
throw her in a cage in  Mexico , she wants to know where the
toothbrush is.  John Travolta  has a good time, as usual, playing a corrupt
DEA agent. Benicio Del Toro, on the other hand, is so convincing
as Elena’s brutal right-hand man that he becomes an unwanted
reminder that the cartels really are killing people in droves.  “Savages” doesn’t have the swagger of self-importance I
associate with Stone. It’s violent, yes; bloated, yes;
ridiculous, absolutely -- which is its saving grace.  ‘Savages,” from  Universal Pictures , is playing across the
U.S. Rating: ***  ‘Last Ride’  One look at Kev ( Hugo Weaving ) and you know that sooner or
later there’s going to be violence. It’s written on his bearded,
surly face.  He and his 10-year-old son, Chook (Tom Russell), are on the
run across  Australia . It takes a while to find out what they’re
fleeing, not so long to perceive that the road they’re on is a
dead end.  Most of Glendyn Ivin’s gruff, laconic “ Last Ride ”is just
Kev and Chook riding, camping and occasionally exchanging a few
words against the forbidding beauty of the bush and the desert.  Yet it’s hard to peel your eyes away from  Greig Fraser ’s
darkly gorgeous camera work. Actually, I did look away more than
once, afraid something terrible was about to happen. It didn’t
(though what happens is bad enough).  Weaving, playing a lowlife who wants to be a passable
father but has no idea how, and Russell, as a kid trying not to
let himself see what a brute his father really is, couldn’t be
better.  You can almost watch Chook’s face closing off -- he’s
learning from his dad, all right.  And Weaving so fully inhabits the hairy-chested jailbird
that it’s startling to think of him pirouetting on stilettos in
his best-known early role, as one of the three traveling drag
queens in “ The Adventures of Priscilla, Queen of the Desert .”  “Last Ride,” from Music Box Films, is playing in  New
York . Rating: ***  ‘Do-Deca-Pentathlon’  Mark ( Steve Zissis ) and Jeremy ( Mark Kelly ) are estranged
brothers who meet again when Jeremy shows up, uninvited, at
their mother’s house for Mark’s birthday.  They’re both still chafing over a 25-event personal
Olympics (arm wrestling, breath holding, etc.) they held 20
years earlier and called “ The Do-Deca-Pentathlon .” Due to a
technicality, no champion was declared.  Now they’re couch potatoes on the verge of middle age.
Jeremy is a cool-cat bachelor who makes a living playing
professional poker; Mark is an overweight stress case.  He and his good-natured wife, Stephanie ( Jennifer Lafleur ),
and their sullen kid, Hunter (Reid Williams), have flown in for
what’s supposed to be a fun, relaxing weekend, so Mark is
quietly furious when Jeremy appears.  Settling Scores  Soon they’re gripped in a new do-deca, with Hunter the
enthusiastic referee. But they have to compete on the sly: Both
Stephanie and their mother (Julie Vorus) know that Mark’s doctor
and his shrink have told him to lower his tension levels.  You can see the dead seriousness with which the brothers
set out to humiliate each other, and you can register the dismay
on Hunter’s face as his dad goes inexorably around the bend. In
a flash, the movie accelerates from silly to painful.  “The Do-Deca-Pentathlon” is about how, no matter what you
do to defend yourself, your siblings can get under your skin in
a way that nobody else can.  Not surprisingly, it was written and directed by two
brothers,  Jay  and  Mark Duplass , who shot it in 2008 (before they
went on to make the bigger-budget “ Cyrus ” and “ Jeff, Who
Lives at Home ”) and finished it this year.  They went back to suburban  New Orleans , where they grew up,
to film at the YMCA, the laser tag center and other places they
competed in as kids. The locations, like everything in this
movie, feel just right.  “The Do-Deca-Pentathlon,” from Red Flag Releasing, is
playing in New York,  Los Angeles , Austin, Seattle and
Washington, D.C. Rating: ***  (Craig Seligman is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  New York Weekend  and  London
Weekend .  To contact the writer on the story:  Craig Seligman  at
 cseligman@mindspring.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 