-- Sucampo Falls After Failing to End Drug Deal With Takeda
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-07-06T20:11:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/sucampo-falls-after-failing-to-end-drug-deal-with-takeda.html
Sucampo Pharmaceuticals Inc. (SCMP) , the
maker of the constipation drug Amitiza, dropped the most in
about 3 1/2 years after losing a bid in arbitration to sever
ties with marketing partner  Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. (4502)   Sucampo  fell  25 percent to $5.23 at the close of trading,
the biggest decline for the Bethesda, Maryland-based company
since Dec. 1, 2008.  The 2004 agreement with  Osaka , Japan-based Takeda for
marketing Amitiza will have to remain in place until October
2020, Sucampo said today in a statement, citing a decision by
the International Chamber of Commerce, a private arbitrator.
Sucampo had sought to end the partnership early because Takeda
breached the agreement by not maximizing U.S. sales of Amitiza,
Kari Watson, a spokeswoman for Sucampo, said in an e-mail.  Sucampo filed a demand for arbitration with the
 International Chamber of Commerce  on March 12, 2010. The ICC
didn’t award Sucampo attorneys’ fees or costs, and said the
royalty rates the company collects from Takeda must stay the
same. The royalty revenue was $41.5 million last year, Sucampo
said in the statement. The company had  $54.8 million in total
sales  last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Amitiza treats chronic constipation that isn’t relieved
through standard treatments and irritable bowel syndrome with
constipation in adult women.  “Through this arbitration process, we have gained a
greater understanding that there is significant potential to
further increase Amitiza’s value, make the product available to
currently underserved patients, and maximize its net sales
revenue by optimizing its marketing and commercialization
efforts,” Ryuji Ueno, Sucampo’s chairman and chief executive
officer, said in the statement.  The company plans to seek approval “in the near-term” for
Amitiza to treat opioid-induced constipation, Ueno said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  