-- Gay Marriage Challenge in New York Thrown Out on Appeal
-- B y   E m i l y   G r a n n i s
-- 2012-07-06T21:23:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/suit-attacking-n-y-gay-marriage-thrown-out-on-appeal.html
A challenge to  New York ’s same-sex
marriage law was turned back by an appeals court that ruled
legislators didn’t violate state open-meeting laws in passing
the measure.  The Rochester-based appellate court today ruled against New
Yorkers for Constitutional Freedoms, an opponent of the June
2011 law that legalized same-sex marriage in the state. The
appeals panel overturned a lower-court decision that had allowed
the open-meetings claim to go forward.  “Defendant New York State Senate did not violate the Open
Meetings Law in enacting the Marriage Equality Act,” the court
ruled. “Marriages performed thereunder are not invalid.”  New Yorkers for Constitutional Freedoms  also argued that
that the Senate improperly suspended its normal voting
procedures and failed to provide a three-day review period
before the vote on the bill.  Acting State Supreme Court Justice  Robert Wiggins  in
Geneseo, New York, dismissed those arguments in November, while
letting the group pursue a claim that the state Senate violated
the requirement for public access when a quorum of public
officials gathers to discuss state issues.  Open Meetings  The state appealed, saying the open-meetings law didn’t
apply to a gathering of senators before the marriage act was
passed. The plaintiffs alleged that lawmakers were pressured at
the meeting to change their votes to support the bill backed by
Governor  Andrew Cuomo .  “The court’s decision affirms that in our state, there is
marriage equality for all, and with this decision New York
continues to stand as a progressive leader for the nation,”
Cuomo said in a statement after today’s ruling.  New Yorkers for Constitutional Freedoms was founded in 1982
to promote religious liberties and moral values, according to
its website. It sued the state Senate the month after the
marriage bill was signed into law.  Mat Staver, founder and chairman of Liberty Counsel, which
represents the lobbying group, said they intend to appeal the
dismissal and push for more transparency in politics.  “This is not the last step in the process,” he said. “I
am disappointed that the court essentially gave a green light to
political strong-arm tactics that froze out the public from our
political process.”  New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman called today’s
decision a “victory for marriage equality.”  “We are pleased that the court upheld the Marriage
Equality Act, and found no defect in the meetings that preceded
the passage of this historic law,” he said in a statement.  The case is  New Yorkers  for Constitutional Freedoms v. New
York State Senate, 807-2011, New York State Supreme Court,
Livingston County (Rochester).  The appeal is New Yorkers for
Constitutional Freedoms v. New York State Senate, 12-ca-00313,
New York Appellate Division, Fourth Department (Rochester).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emily Grannis in New York at 
 egrannis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  