-- Sumitomo Mitsui to Boost Plane Fleet 20% in Three Years
-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r   a n d   T a k a k o   T a n i g u c h i
-- 2012-07-06T01:24:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/sumitomo-mitsui-to-boost-plane-fleet-20-in-three-years.html
Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. (8316) 
aims to expand Asia’s largest aircraft-leasing fleet by about 20
percent, targeting regional growth by building on a $7.3 billion
purchase of  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) ’s aviation unit.  Japan ’s second-biggest lender by market value, in
combination with trading company  Sumitomo Corp. (8053) , will boost the
fleet to 400 planes in three years, from about 335, Hiroshi Minoura, deputy president of Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp., the
lead arranger of the RBS deal, said in an interview on July 2.  Revenue from aviation leasing may rise to $800 million in
three years, and $1 billion two years later, from $700 million,
he said. Sumitomo Mitsui is targeting the Asia-Pacific region
for growth, which is set to buy the most airplanes of any region
over the next two decades.  “Asian aviation demand is expanding at an amazing pace and
low-cost carriers are increasing dramatically,” he said. “We
want to take a chunk of that growing market. The combined fleet
will give us great economies of scale.”  The financial group, which  renamed  RBS’s aviation unit SMBC
Aviation Capital, will merge it with SMFL Aircraft Capital Corp.
within a year and tie up with Sumitomo’s aviation unit  Sumisho
Aircraft Asset Management BV , which owns and manages about 90
planes. Sumitomo Mitsui Finance & Leasing Co. owns a 60 percent
stake in SMBC Aviation, Sumitomo Mitsui Banking holds 30
percent, and the remainder is held by Sumitomo.  Asia Share  Sumitomo Mitsui is aiming to boost the  Asia  share of its
joint sales to about 50 percent, from 30 percent, as regional
demand increases, Minoura said. Asia-Pacific airlines may
receive 12,030 new planes through 2031, the largest tally for
any region, Boeing Co. forecast this week.  A global slowdown in economic growth may help leasing
companies win business, said Paul Sheridan of Ascend Worldwide
Ltd.  China , the world’s second-largest aviation market, may have
grown at the lowest pace in more than three years last quarter,
according to estimates from UBS AG.  “It’s a good time to be in airplane leasing,” said
Sheridan, the Hong Kong-based head of consultancy. “Demand
increases as the economy weakens as airlines tend to lease
planes rather than buy them.”  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial rose 0.3 percent to 2,660 yen as
of 10:06 a.m. in  Tokyo . The stock has gained 24 percent this
year.  ANA, JAL  Sumitomo Mitsui may also look to buy and then lease back
787 aircraft ordered by  All Nippon Airways Co. (9202)  and Japan
Airlines Co., the nation’s two biggest carriers, Minoura said.
The fuel-efficient planes are appealing as they will probably be
easy to sell in the second-hand market at the end of leasing
contracts, he said.  Boeing 787-8s cost  $193.5 million  each, according to list
prices on the aircraft maker’s website.  ANA is the world’s first and largest operator of Boeing
787, and plans to add flights to  Seattle  and  San Jose  after
starting service with the aircraft to  Frankfurt  last year. The
carrier, which has ordered 55 of the planes, said it had
received seven of them by the end of May.  The Tokyo-based carrier earlier this week announced a plan
to raise as much as 211 billion yen ($2.6 billion) to help it
pay for 787s and raise money for possible investments in other
Asian carriers. JAL, which has ordered 45 of the planes, started
flights to  Boston  with its first deliveries in April.  “We’ll ask them if they’d like any help in buying the
planes,” Minoura said. “To buy 10 or 20 of the 787s is a huge
investment. We think there’s a chance they could change their
business model from one where they buy all the planes to leasing
to reduce initial costs.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
Takako Taniguchi in Tokyo at 
 ttaniguchi4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  