-- Suzlon to Build Brazil Plant as Turbine Loans Blocked
-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-07-06T09:54:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/suzlon-to-build-brazil-plant-as-turbine-loans-blocked.html
Suzlon Energy Ltd. (SUEL) , India’s biggest
wind-turbine maker, agreed to build a components factory in
Brazil as the country’s state development bank suspended loans
to developers buying the machines from foreign companies.  Suzlon “has decided to have local manufacturing facilities
based on the requirements,” the Pune-based producer said in its
annual report. The company will do the same in  South Africa  for
similar reasons, it said.  State bank BNDES, Brazil’s main lender to wind farms, this
month halted loans to developers seeking to buy turbines from
overseas companies, including Suzlon, while it verifies whether
the manufacturers are getting 40 percent of their components in
Brazil, as required.  Suzlon, negotiating orders with potential clients in the
country, is diversifying sales as demand is forecast to slow in
China and the U.S., the two largest wind markets. Brazil was the
fastest-growing major wind market in 2011, boosting installed
capacity by 63 percent,  Global Wind Energy Council  data show.  BNDES, which also stopped authorizing loans for turbines
from Denmark’s  Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS) , Germany’s Fuhrlaender
AG, Clipper Windpower Ltd. of the U.S and Spain’s  Acciona SA (ANA) , is
deciding whether to make the ban official. Brazil plans to raise
the local content requirement to 60 percent eventually.  Suzlon Chairman  Tulsi Tanti  said in 2010 that the company
planned to invest about $10 million in a rotor-blades plant in
Brazil. The producer has been buying blades in the country from
local manufacturer Aeris Energy, and hasn’t built its own plant
yet, it said today in an e-mailed response to queries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  