-- Swiss Stocks Fall as U.S. Payrolls Miss Estimates
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2012-07-06T16:09:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/swiss-stocks-fall-as-u-s-jobs-miss-estimates.html
Swiss stocks  dropped after a report
showed U.S. employers hired fewer workers last month than
economists had estimated, adding to signs growth is slowing in
the world’s largest economy.  Adecco SA (ADEN) , the biggest supplier of temporary workers, slid
1.9 percent.  Nobel Biocare Holding AG (NOBN)  fell 3.3 percent after the
second biggest maker of dental implants said its chief financial
officer will leave the company.  Temenos Group AG (TEMN)  dropped 4.3
percent after  UBS AG (UBSN)  downgraded the shares.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  lost 0.3 percent to 6,183.67 at the
close in Zurich. The equity benchmark posted a weekly gain of
1.9 percent, its  fifth  straight weekly advance for the longest
winning streak in more than three years. The broader Swiss
Performance Index dropped 0.4 percent today.  “This job number is not a disaster, but it leaves
investors in a limbo between hoping for more stimulus or
sustainable growth in the economy,” said Henrik Drusebjerg, who
helps oversee $230 billion as senior equity strategist at Nordea
Bank AB in Copenhagen. “The  U.S. economy  is far from as strong
as people believed in the first quarter.”  Employers in the U.S. hired fewer workers than forecast in
June, showing the labor market is making scant progress toward
reducing joblessness.  U.S. payrolls rose 80,000 last month after a 77,000
increase in May, Labor Department figures showed today in
Washington. Economists had projected a 100,000 gain, according
to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey. The
 unemployment rate  held at 8.2 percent. Private employment
increased 84,000 in June, the weakest in 10 months.  German Output  German industrial output  increased 1.6 percent in May,
according to a report from the country’s Economy Ministry in
Berlin.  Economists had forecast  production would climb 0.2
percent. The measure dropped 2.1 percent in April.  In Spain, a report from the National Statistics Institute
in  Madrid  showed that  industrial production  dropped for a ninth
month in May, slumping 6.1 percent from a year earlier. The
average estimate of seven economists surveyed by Bloomberg had
called for an 8.1 percent contraction.  The  International Monetary Fund  will reduce its estimate
for global growth this year, Managing Director  Christine Lagarde 
said today in a speech in Tokyo. “And even that lower
projection will depend on the right policy actions being
taken,” Lagarde said.  Adecco Slips  Adecco fell 1.9 percent to 41.61 Swiss francs.  Nobel Biocare declined 3.3 percent to 9.28 francs. CFO Dirk Kirsten will resign by Jan. 31 to pursue opportunities outside
the company.  UBS and Credit Suisse, the biggest Swiss lenders, slid 2.9
percent to 10.80 francs and 2.4 percent to 17.38 francs,
respectively, as  European banks  contributed the most to the
Stoxx Europe 600 Index’s retreat.  Temenos Group AG, the  software company  that specializes in
applications for the financial industry, lost 4.3 percent to
14.65 francs after UBS cut the shares to hold from buy, meaning
that investors should stop buying the stock.  The volume of shares changing hands in companies listed on
the SMI was 21 percent lower than the average of the last 30
days, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The gauge
yesterday reached its highest level since April 20.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  