-- Syms, Lehman, FirstFed, Global Aviation: Bankruptcy
-- B y   B i l l   R o c h e l l e
-- 2012-07-06T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/syms-lehman-firstfed-global-aviation-bankruptcy.html
Syms Corp. (SYMSQ)  and the discount
retailer’s official shareholders’ committee are opposing a
request by the official creditors’ committee to delay a hearing
related to the global settlement announced last week.  The creditors’ representative said the parties haven’t
“even exchanged drafts of a revised plan and disclosure
statement since the term sheet has not yet been finalized.”  There will be a conference today with the bankruptcy judge
in  Delaware , who will decide whether to push back the hearing to
July 13 from July 9.  In a filing with the  bankruptcy court  on July 3, the
creditors’ committee said there as yet is only a “handshake
deal on the material terms” of a consensual Chapter 11 plan.
Although there has been “significant progress,” there are “a
few open issues” on the documentation necessary to implement
the settlement, the committee said.  The official equity committee, together with Syms and
subsidiary Filene’s Basement LLC, are opposing any delay in the
July 9 hearing, where the bankruptcy court theoretically would
consider approval of disclosure material explaining a prior
version of the plan that is being superseded by the settlement.
The July 9 hearing is also designed to put procedures into
motion for approving the settlement and an accompanying rights
offering to raise about $25 million.  In opposing delay, the shareholders’ committee said that an
adjournment “will remove the pressure of a looming deadline
when one is needed most.”  In general terms, the settlement provides for paying
unsecured claims against Syms in full within “agreed upon time
frames.” Trade and supplier claims against Filene’s will also
be paid in full. Claims arising from terminated leases not
guaranteed by Syms will receive 75 percent payment, also within
specified time frames. For details on the settlement, click here
for the July 3 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  Syms closed yesterday at $7.50 a share in over-the-counter
trading. During bankruptcy, the closing peak was $12.65 on Dec.
12, up from $7.67 immediately before the Chapter 11 filing on
Nov. 2. The stock closed as low as $6.57 in late June.  Syms, based in Secaucus,  New Jersey , purchased Filene’s
through a bankruptcy auction in June 2009 in Filene’s second
Chapter 11 reorganization. At the outset of Chapter 11 case in
November, there were 25 Syms stores and 21 Filene’s locations.  The stores were closed and inventory sold. Leases were
terminated, leaving Syms with owned real estate to form the
cornerstone for a reorganization plan.  Assets were listed in the Chapter 11 petition for $236
million, including real estate valued at $97.7 million.
Liabilities were listed at $94 million, including $31.1 million
owing on a revolving credit with  Bank of America NA  as agent. In
addition, there were $11.1 million in letters of credit
outstanding on the revolver.  The case is In re Filene’s Basement LLC, 11-13511,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Updates  Lehman Wins Squabble in Lawsuit with JPMorgan Chase  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. won a skirmish this week in
the $8.6 billion battle with JPMorgan Chase Bank NA.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  James M. Peck  wrote a 15-page opinion
on July 3 explaining why he won’t strike some of the objections
Lehman raised to the claim of the New York-based bank. In a
related lawsuit, Lehman claims that JPMorgan “abused the power
of its position to improperly extract billions in incremental
collateral and other concessions” before bankruptcy.  This week, Peck denied JPMorgan’s attempt to strike two
parts of the objection to the bank’s claim. Peck said the
dispute was “within the context of an ongoing larger multi-
layered litigation concerning the net amounts that may
ultimately be payable by these parties to one another.”  Peck cited authority from the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in
Manhattan saying that motions to strike are “disfavored” and
won’t be granted unless it “appears to a certainty” that no
state of facts could ever “support the defense.”  In April, Peck handed down a split decision in the lawsuit
that Lehman began in May 2010. In the April ruling, Peck
dismissed Lehman’s claims for recovery of preferential transfers
and so-called constructively fraudulent transfers.  He said Lehman is entitled to a trial on claims alleging
actual fraud and 25 other theories aimed at forcing JPMorgan to
disgorge payments extracted from Lehman in the declining days
before bankruptcy. For details on the April ruling, click here
for the April 20 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  The Lehman holding company and the brokerage subsidiary
began their bankruptcies in New York in September 2008. The
Chapter 11 plan for the Lehman companies other than the broker
was confirmed in December and implemented in March, with a first
distribution in April.  Lehman’s brokerage subsidiary is under control of James
Giddens, a trustee appointed under the Securities Investor
Protection Act. The Lehman brokerage is yet to make a first
distribution to non-customers.  The lawsuit between the Lehman parent and JPMorgan is
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. v.  JPMorgan Chase Bank NA (JPM)  (In re
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.), 10-03266, U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  The Lehman holding company Chapter 11 case is In re Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555, while the liquidation
proceeding under the Securities Investor Protection Act for the
brokerage operation is Securities Investor Protection Corp. v.
 Lehman Brothers Inc ., 08-01420, both in U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Northstar Has Final Approval on $29 Million in Loans  The reorganization of Northstar Aerospace (USA) Inc. is
proceeding without a hitch in advance of an auction on July 17
and a hearing on July 24 for approval of sale.  The bankruptcy court in Delaware gave final approval for
$29 million in financing on July 3. The court also authorized a
management incentive plan.  Northstar’s principal lender,  Fifth Third Bank (FITB) , received
final approval to lend a maximum of $22 million. The bank is
already owed $39.5 million on a revolving credit and $18.9
million on a  term loan . The bankruptcy court also gave final
approval for a $7 million junior loan from  Boeing Co. (BA)   This week, the bankruptcy judge approved a $420,000 bonus
program for 10 executives and managers. Payments are contingent
on completion of a sale to private-equity investor Wynnchurch
Capital Ltd.  Northstar is a manufacturer of gears and gearboxes for
military helicopters. Unless there is a higher bid at auction,
Wynnchurch will buy the business for $70 million in cash.  Northstar filed for Chapter 11 reorganization on June 14.
The sale to Wynnchurch was previously negotiated.  With U.S. operations based in Bedford Park, Illinois,
Northstar makes components and assemblies for Chinook, Apache
and Blackhawk helicopters, as well as the F-22 Raptor fighter.
The company has six facilities in the U.S. and Canada.  Revenue in 2011 was $189.6 million. The two largest
customers are the U.S. military and Boeing.  Northstar’s books show assets of $165.1 million, with
liabilities totaling $147.5 million. Trade suppliers are owed
$21.7 million. Canadian affiliates filed for reorganization in
Canada under the Companies’ Creditors Arrangement Act.  The case is In re Northstar Aerospace (USA) Inc., 12-11817,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  FirstFed Making Second Stab at Plan Confirmation  Creditors of  FirstFed Financial Corp. (FFEDQ)  for a second time are
voting on a proposed Chapter 11 plan.  They rejected the first plan after the explanatory
disclosure statement was approved early last year by the U.S.
Bankruptcy Court in  Los Angeles .  FirstFed was a holding company for a savings and loan taken
over by regulators in December 2009. The largest asset is a
claim for a $30 million income tax refund. The Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp., as receiver for the failed bank, claims that
it’s entitled to the tax refund.  In addition to disputed claims from the FDIC, there are few
aside from the $157.8 million owing on unsecured debentures. The
plan puts the FDIC in separate classes from the debenture
holders.  The new plan is jointly proposed by FirstFed and by Vik
Ghei and Misah Zaitzeff, who own about $20 million of the
debentures through a company named Holdco Advisors LP.  The explanatory disclosure statement tells debenture
holders they will have a maximum 24 percent recovery if the
court rules that the tax refund belongs to FirstFed. The FDIC,
in its separate class, will have a similar recovery if its
unsecured claim is found valid.  The disclosure statement was approved last week by the
bankruptcy court, court records indicate.  The plan will give ownership of the company to debenture
holders and the few other unsecured creditors. In lieu of stock,
debenture holders can receive cash for a predicted 16.7 percent
recovery should the tax refund be ruled an asset of FirstFed.  The disclosure statement accompanying last year’s plan told
debenture holders to expect a 1.3 percent recovery, without
regard for whatever might be collected from tax refunds or
lawsuits.  FirstFed’s Chapter 11 petition listed assets for $4.5
million, with debt totaling $160 million. Liabilities included
$159.5 million on three issues of senior debentures. The bank
subsidiary, First Federal Bank of California, showed $6.1
billion in assets on the balance sheet when it was taken over.  The case is In re FirstFed Financial Corp., 10-10150, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Central District of California (Woodland
Hills).  Creditors Committee Objects to Global Aviation Bonus  The  Global Aviation Holdings Inc. (GLAH)  creditors’ committee and
the U.S. Trustee are both opposing a $137,000 retention bonus
program for five executives who aren’t among the company’s top
officers.  According to the company, the intended recipients are
responsible for creating “safety, maintenance and flight
operation manuals and overseeing the compliance of the
standards.”  The creditors’ committee argued in papers filed this week
with the bankruptcy court that the mere description of their
responsibilities places them within the top echelon of
management, so they must be considered “insiders” for whom
Congress prohibits retention bonuses.  The U.S. Trustee similarly argues that the five managers
haven’t been shown not to be insiders. The bankruptcy judge will
rule on the propriety of the bonuses at a July 11 hearing in
 Brooklyn , New York.  Global is the parent of World Airways Inc. and North
American Airlines Inc. The company says it’s the largest
provider of passenger air transport for the U.S. military.  Global filed for Chapter 11 reorganization in February to
shed 16 of 30 aircraft. Global also said it is attempting to
negotiate new collective-bargaining agreements with three
unions.  The petition listed $589.8 million in assets against debt
totaling $493.2 million. Liabilities include $146.5 million on
14 percent first-lien secured notes and $98.1 million on a
second-lien term loan.  Wells Fargo Bank NA (WFC)  is agent for both.
Trade debt is $109 million, according to a court filing.  Global, based in Peachtree City,  Georgia , is 92.5 percent-
owned by an affiliate of MatlinPatterson Global Advisers LLC.  The case is In re Global Aviation Holdings Inc., 12-40783,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Eastern District New York (Brooklyn).  Georgia Hospital Authority Ineligible for Bankruptcy  The Hospital Authority of Charlton County, Georgia, is
ineligible for bankruptcy in either Chapter 9 or Chapter 11, the
court in Waycross, Georgia, ruled on July 3.  As a result, U.S. Bankruptcy Judge John S. Dalis dismissed
the Chapter 9 municipal bankruptcy begun on April 30.  Three days after the owner of the  Charlton Memorial
Hospital  in Fall River, Georgia, filed in Chapter 9, the U.S.
Trustee filed a motion to dismiss the bankruptcy, saying that
the authority is a governmental unit precluded by Georgia State
law from filing bankruptcy.  In response, the authority filed papers asking the
bankruptcy judge to convert the case from Chapter 9 to a Chapter
11 reorganization.  Dalis ruled that the hospital authority is a governmental
unit ineligible for bankruptcy because Georgia state law “has
not specifically authorized it to file for relief under Chapter
9.” Dalis denied the authority’s request for conversion to
Chapter 11 because, as a governmental unit, it’s ineligible for
any form of bankruptcy aside from Chapter 9.  The authority is part of government, according to Dalis,
because it “possesses a number of traditional government
attributes,” such as the power of eminent domain and the
ability to receive  tax revenue .  The Chapter 9 petition lists assets exceeding $10 million
and debt of less than $10 million.  The case is In re Hospital Authority of Charlton County,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, 12-50305, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern
District Georgia (Waycross).  Hussey Seeks Fourth Extension of Plan ‘Exclusivity’  Hussey Copper Corp.  sold the business for $107.8 million
late last year and for a fourth time is seeking an enlargement
of the exclusive right to propose a liquidating Chapter 11 plan.  If approved by the bankruptcy court in Delaware at an Aug.
24 hearing, the plan-filing deadline will be pushed out by two
months to Sept. 2.  Hussey said it filed a proposed Chapter 11 plan in early
May “to spur ongoing negotiations” intended to result in a
“consensual resolution of outstanding issues.” A prior hearing
for approval of the explanatory disclosure statement was
rescheduled for July 18.  The company previously said that issues to be resolved
include “significant” claims of the Pension Benefit Guaranty
Corp.  Libertas Copper, an affiliate of Patriarch Partners LLC,
bought the business. Before the Chapter 11 filing in late
September, Hussey signed a contract for Kataman Metals LLC to
buy the business for $88.7 million. The higher price paid by
Patriarch resulted from an auction.  Family owned since 1848, Hussey produced copper products
from plants near Pittsburgh and Eminence, Kentucky. Revenue
shrank to $382 million in 2010 from $454 million in 2008.  At the outset of bankruptcy, debt included $38.2 million
owing on a matured revolving credit. There was also a $2.4
million subordinated loan. In addition, the company owed $29
million to trade suppliers, court papers showed.  The case is In re Hussey Copper Corp., 11-13010, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Daily Podcast  Stockton, Hotels-GECC, RoomStore, Cramdown: Bankruptcy Audio  Stockton, California, the largest U.S. city ever to file
for  bankruptcy protection , is the first item on the bankruptcy
podcast with Bloomberg Law’s Lee Pacchia and Bloomberg News
bankruptcy columnist Bill Rochelle. Five hotels spread across
the country are discussed as possible acquisition targets. The
secured lender is General Electric Capital Corp. RoomStore Inc.,
once a 63-store furniture  retailer , is liquidating the last 29
stores and is bent on paying creditors in full following going-
out-of-business sales that will run for five months. The podcast
ends with discussion of an appellate case from California and
Nevada making life easier on a company that intends to cram down
on a fully secured creditor. To listen, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Rochelle in New York at 
 wrochelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 