-- Assad Confidant Syrian Brigadier-General Manaf Tlas Defects
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r   a n d   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2012-07-06T14:56:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/syrian-brigadier-general-tlas-defects-france-s-fabius-says.html
Syrian Brigadier-General Manaf Tlas
became the first member of President Bashar al-Assad’s inner
circle to defect since the uprising against the government began
last year.  French Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius announced the
defection of Tlas, formerly a commander in the elite Republican
Guard, at a Friends of  Syria  meeting today in Paris. The son of
ex-Defense Minister Mustapha Tlas, he headed Brigade 105 in the
Revolutionary Guard, according to the pro-government website
Syria Steps.  “Regime insiders and the military establishment are
starting to vote with their feet,” U.S. Secretary of State
 Hillary Clinton  said of the defection at a press conference in
Paris. “Those who have the closest knowledge of Assad’s actions
and crimes are moving away, and we think that’s a very promising
development.”  Syria’s government is fighting a growing insurrection in
which more than 10,000 people have died, according to United
Nations estimates. At least 36 people were killed today, the
Local Coordination Committees in Syria said in an e-mail.
Authorities have portrayed the unrest as a conspiracy and the
protesters as radical Islamists.  Sunni Muslim  “This will shake the regime to its bones,”  Joshua Landis ,
director of the Middle East program at the University of
Oklahoma in Norman, said in an e-mailed response to questions
about Tlas. “Opposition groups have been complaining that the
elite are not leaving the regime. That complaint can now
officially be put to rest.”  Landis said Tlas was a  Sunni Muslim  and a confidant of
Assad, who is Alawite, an offshoot of Shiite Islam. His
defection “underscores the very real worry that this war is
turning into a civil war drawn along religious, communal lines
with the Alawites remaining loyal and the Sunnis, even highly
ranked Sunnis, going over to the side of the rebels,” he said.  “If that happens, the regime will fall apart,” Landis
added. “The Alawites cannot rule Syria alone.”  Clinton told the Paris meeting that  Russia  and  China  are
blocking progress toward a settlement in Syria and urged they be
pressured to end their support of Assad’s government.  “I ask you to reach out to Russia and China and not only
ask, but demand they get off the sidelines,” Clinton said to
more than 100 delegations at the conference. “I don’t think
Russia and China think they are paying any price at all --
nothing at all -- for standing with the Assad regime,” she
said.  Clinton made her call as opposition figures at the meeting
advocated a no-fly zone and criticized the group for moving too
slowly to help Syrian civilians.  Democratic Transition  “We fail to understand how it is we have so many friends
and yet so many people are dying every day,” said Riad Seif, a
founder of the “Damascus Declaration,” a call by intellectuals
for a peaceful democratic transition.  Nabil el-Arabi, the secretary-general of the  Arab League ,
said “a declaration of intent is not enough” and that “we
must force the UN to act.”  Russia and China, two of the five permanent members of the
UN Security Council, have protected Syria from censure and show
no signs of shifting, even as Clinton and others at the meeting
advocated stronger UN sanctions. The gathering was called to
discuss ways to increase support for the Syrian opposition and
pressure on Assad.  Russia didn’t attend this Friends of Syria meeting. It did
send representatives to a Syrian opposition meeting in Cairo on
July 2 and 3. Fabius said he will discuss Syria when he travels
to China next week.  Changing Position  “I’ll explain to them that there is no greater disorder
than what’s going on right now, and no one can imagine that the
country will make a democratic transition under Bashar al-
Assad,” he told reporters.  Assad, in an interview with the Turkish Cumhuriyet
newspaper, said sanctions “no matter how intensified” won’t
make his government change its position, the state-run Sana  news
agency  reported today.  “The issue is not one of selling principles for money,
food or foreign aid,” the news agency quoted him as saying.
“Otherwise, we would have to justify the attitude of any
corrupt person who sold his honor for money, and this is
categorically unacceptable for us in Syria in principle and from
a moral perspective.”  Fabius told reporters that the defection of Tlas is a “big
blow to the regime.”  Tlas left the country after he learned the authorities
discovered information about “his supervision of terrorist
operations in Syria,” the pro-government Syria Steps cited an
unnamed security official as saying. Syrian Foreign Ministry
spokesman Jihad Makdissi didn’t answer calls seeking comment.  While the defection is a blow to the government,
“unfortunately it won’t bring it down,” Haitham Maleh, a
prominent opposition figure, said by phone from Aachen, Germany,  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Manama at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net ;
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  