-- U.K. Producer Prices Fall Most Since 2008 as Oil Costs Drop
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2012-07-06T09:48:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/u-k-producer-prices-fall-most-since-2008-as-oil-costs-drop-1-.html
The price of goods leaving U.K.
factories fell the most in more than 3 1/2 years in June as a
plunge in crude-oil costs eased pipeline inflation pressures.  Output prices  fell 0.4 percent from May, when they dropped
0.2 percent, the  Office for National Statistics  said today in
 London . It was the biggest decline since November 2008. The
median forecast of 15 economists in a Bloomberg News survey was
for a 0.2 percent drop. Raw-material costs fell 2.2 percent.  The Bank of England increased its  asset-purchase target  to
375 billion pounds ($583 billion) yesterday and said consumer-
price inflation was “more likely than not” to undershoot the 2
percent target without extra stimulus as global growth weakens.
Recent reports suggest the  U.K. economy  remains in a recession,
with manufacturing and building output declining in June and
services expanding at the slowest pace in eight months.  Today’s data “are benign, supporting hopes that consumer
price inflation will head down appreciably,” said  Howard Archer , an economist at IHS Global Insight in London. “This
would give the economy much needed support by easing the squeeze
on consumers’ purchasing power. It would also facilitate further
stimulative action later this year by the Bank of England should
the economy fail to improve.”  The pound was little changed against the dollar after the
report and was trading at $1.5545 as of 10:23 a.m. in London, up
0.1 percent on the day.  Cheaper Oil  Out of the 10 categories of factory-gate prices tracked by
the ONS, four fell in June from May, three were unchanged and
three rose. Petroleum products and chemicals contributed most to
the decline, as crude-oil costs fell 9.1 percent, the biggest
decline since December 2008.  From a year earlier, producer-price inflation eased to 2.3
percent from 2.9 percent in May, the slowest since October 2009.  Core producer prices , which exclude the costs of food,
alcohol, tobacco and petroleum, fell 0.2 percent in June from
the previous month, the most since June 2009. They rose 2
percent from a year earlier, the least since January 2010.  The  Bank of England  also kept its  key interest rate  at a
record-low 0.5 percent yesterday. Explaining its decision, it
said the economy has contracted for the past two quarters and
indicators “point to a continuation of that weakness in the
near term.” It also said that commodity prices have fallen,
“which should help to moderate external price pressures.”  Fuel and raw material costs fell for a third month in a row
in June, leaving input prices 2.3 percent lower than a year
earlier. That was the first annual decline since September 2009.  Still, there are risks after crude-oil prices surged about
11 percent in the past week, said Blerina Uruci, an economist at
Barclays Plc in London.  The slowdown in input-cost inflation in the second quarter
has been “primarily driven by a strong fall in  oil prices ,”
she said. “The pick-up during the last week, if sustained,
poses some risks to the continuation of the downward trend.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  