-- U.S. Shopping Center Rents Climb Amid Little Development
-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 2012-07-06T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/u-s-shopping-center-rents-climb-amid-little-development.html
Rents and occupancies at U.S.
shopping centers rose in the second quarter amid little
development of properties, research company  Reis Inc. (REIS)  said.  Occupied space rose by a net 2.06 million square feet
(191,000 square meters), the third-largest addition since the
slump for neighborhood and community shopping centers began in
the first quarter of 2008, according to a report today by New
York-based Reis. The so-called net absorption figure compared
with a loss of 39,000 square feet a year earlier.  “The second-quarter results provided heartening evidence
that a slow recovery in neighborhood and community shopping
centers is beginning to take root,” Ryan Severino, a Reis
senior economist, said in the report. Still, “we remain
cautious about pronouncing a turnaround until we observe a
couple more quarters of improvement.”  Vacancies are falling from at least a 12-year high -- first
reached in the fourth quarter of 2010 and repeated for most of
last year -- as a low level of shopping-center construction
limits availability, Reis said. About 572,000 square feet of new
space came online in the three months ended June 30, the second-
lowest quarterly figure in Reis records dating to 1999.  Shopping-center vacancies dropped for a second consecutive
quarter to 10.8 percent, down from 10.9 percent in the previous
three months and 11 percent a year earlier, Reis said. Effective
rents, or what’s paid after any landlord discounts, averaged
$16.55 a square foot, up from $16.49 a year earlier.  U.S. same-store sales, excluding  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) 
locations, rose 0.2 percent in June from a year earlier,
following a 1.7 percent increase in May, the  International
Council of Shopping Centers  said yesterday.  ‘Seeing Improvement’  Shares of shopping center owners are the second-best
performing group of real estate investment trusts this year. The
Bloomberg  shopping  center REIT index rose 20 percent this year
through yesterday, trailing only the Bloomberg  mall  REIT index,
which gained 22 percent.  “We’re seeing improvement in occupancy, leasing spreads,
renewals -- all of the different metrics that we measure on a
quarterly basis,”  David Henry , chief executive officer of  Kimco
Realty Corp. (KIM) , the largest U.S. owner of community shopping
centers, said in a June presentation at a conference in  New
York . “They are all getting stronger.”  At regional malls, which typically include department
stores and are larger than neighborhood and community shopping
centers, vacancies fell to 8.9 percent in the second quarter
from 9.3 percent a year earlier, and rents rose to $39.12 a
square foot from $38.77.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  