-- U.S. Said to Be Pleased With Steps by Syrian Opposition
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2012-07-06T00:07:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/u-s-said-to-be-pleased-with-steps-by-syrian-opposition.html
U.S. officials expressed confidence
in Syrian opposition unity and in the National Compact document
that Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s opponents have drafted
to direct the country’s transition after his ouster.  One official, who wasn’t authorized to comment on the
record, spoke yesterday as the “Friends of Syria” group
prepared to meet in Paris. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
arrived in the French capital for the session, the first stop in
a two-week trip that takes her to at least eight nations.  The group today will discuss humanitarian aid and ways to
increase pressure on Assad including, the official said,
increased United Nations sanctions. The potential actions
include those under so-called UN Chapter 7 provisions that allow
for the use of military force to enforce sanctions. Such a step
would have to be approved by Russia and China, permanent members
of the UN Security Council that have twice protected Syria from
censure.  Syrian opposition groups met in Cairo July 2 and 3 to write
a detailed blueprint for transition, an accomplishment that was
overshadowed by reports of fisticuffs and infighting. The
opposition movement, made up of disparate groups inside and
outside Syria, has struggled to establish unity.  The highly publicized discord wasn’t representative of the
meeting, said the U.S. official. The document includes plans for
managing the military, the economy and the shift in power to a
temporary governing body that would draft a constitution and
hold elections within a year.  After Paris, Clinton plans to go to Tokyo for a July 8
international conference on  Afghanistan . After stops in Mongolia
and Vietnam, she will be the first U.S. secretary of state to
visit  Laos  in 57 years. Her stop there is scheduled for July 11.  She plans to attend regional conferences in  Phnom Penh  and
Siem Reap,  Cambodia , before visits in  Egypt  and Israel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Paris at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  