-- U.S. Stocks Retreat as Jobs Growth Trails Forecasts
-- B y   L u   W a n g   a n d   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2012-07-06T20:46:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/u-s-stock-futures-are-little-changed-alcoa-declines.html
U.S. stocks declined, erasing a
weekly gain for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, as slower-than-
forecast growth in payrolls fueled concern that the economic
recovery is slowing.  All  10 industry groups  in the  S&P 500  retreated.  Alcoa
Inc. (AA) ,  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX)  and  Schlumberger Ltd. (SLB) 
slid at least 1.3 percent as commodity shares declined.  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  dropped at least 1.4
percent to pace losses among financial companies. Computer and
software shares slumped after Informatica Corp. and  Seagate
Technology Plc (STX)   said earnings missed their forecasts.  The S&P 500 slipped 0.9 percent to 1,354.68 at 4 p.m. in
 New York , reversing its gain for the week to a loss of 0.6
percent. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  dropped 124.20 points,
or 1 percent, to 12,772.47. Volume for exchange-listed stocks in
the U.S. was 5.1 billion shares, 25 percent below the three-
month average and the second-slowest full trading day of 2012.  “It confirms the view that the  U.S. economy  is slowing,”
said  Jack Ablin , chief investment officer of BMO Harris Private
Bank in  Chicago , which oversees about $60 billion of assets.
“We are creating jobs at about less than half the pace in the
second quarter than we did in the first quarter, either because
of influences from abroad or seasonal adjustments.”  Equities fell as Labor Department figures showed payrolls
rose 80,000 last month after a 77,000 increase in May.
Economists projected a 100,000 gain, according to the median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey. The  unemployment rate  held
at 8.2 percent. Private employment, which excludes government
agencies, increased 84,000 in June, the weakest in 10 months.  ‘Disappointing Report’  “On balance it’s a mildly disappointing report,” Mark Luschini, chief investment strategist for Philadelphia-based
Janney Montgomery Scott LLC, which manages about $54 billion,
said in a phone interview. “It’s hard for investors to get
overly enthused about it unless in this bizarre world you
believe this number gives the Fed more impetus to step up with
QE3,” he said, referring to another round of stimulus action by
the  Federal Reserve .  The Fed has already purchased $2.3 trillion of securities
in two so-called quantitative-easing programs. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , speaking at a June 20 Washington press conference,
said the Fed is focusing “primarily” on the outlook for jobs
in deciding whether to ease further, and more action would be
needed without “sustained improvement in the labor market.”  U.S. stocks declined yesterday, halting a three-day advance
for the S&P 500, amid disappointment over  Europe ’s efforts to
tame the region’s debt crisis. The  European Central Bank  reduced
its benchmark rate to a record low of 0.75 percent and the
People’s Bank of  China  cut borrowing costs for a second time in
a month.  Commodities Tumble  Commodity shares in the S&P 500 slumped 1.2 percent as a
group today. The S&P GSCI Index of commodities lost 2.4 percent
as oil and gold prices declined. Alcoa, the largest U.S.
aluminum producer, tumbled 2.2 percent to $8.73. Freeport-
McMoRan, a copper and gold company, fell 1.3 percent to $35.01
while oilfield services company Schlumberger slid 1.4 percent to
$65.17.  The Morgan Stanley  Cyclical Index (CYC)  of companies most-tied to
economic growth erased 1.3 percent. The Dow Jones Transportation
Average slumped 1 percent. JPMorgan slipped 1.4 percent to
$33.90 while Bank of America lost 2.1 percent to $7.66.  Technology Slump  Technology shares dropped the most among S&P 500 groups,
erasing 1.8 percent.  Informatica (INFA)  plunged 28 percent to $31.39,
the biggest loss since 2001. The provider of corporate data-
integration software reported second-quarter earnings and
revenue that unexpectedly dropped, missing analysts’ estimates.
Informatica said it didn’t adapt as rapidly as it should have to
a downturn in demand, especially in Europe.  Other software companies tumbled.  Teradata Corp. (TDC)  fell the
most in the S&P 500, sinking 10 percent to $65.01, while  Citrix
Systems Inc. (CTXS)  had the second-biggest drop, tumbling 7.6 percent
to $77.45.  Seagate declined 0.5 percent to $24.96. The world’s largest
maker of computer disk drives said fiscal fourth-quarter sales
and profit margin would miss the company’s previous forecast,
citing reduced hard-drive shipments and a “supplier quality
issue” that affected some products.  Acme Packet Inc. (APKT)  slumped 14 percent to $15.74. The maker of
devices that help transmit voice and data over Internet networks
said second-quarter earnings missed its expectation because of
continued weakness in the North American service provider
market.  F5 Networks Inc. (FFIV) , a developer of software for Internet
traffic management, dropped 6.9 percent to $94.49.  Airlines Gain  Navistar International Corp. (NAV)  fell 15 percent to $24.42. The
maker of International brand trucks said it expects additional
costs to introduce an engine that will meet U.S. emission
standards after its earlier technology failed to comply.  Airlines advanced as a drop in oil spurred expectations
that fuel costs will fall.  Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV)  gained 1.3
percent to $9.27 while Delta Air Lines Inc. rose 3.5 percent to
$11.  The government’s previous employment report on June 1
showed the weakest jobs growth in a year, and sent the S&P 500
down 2.5 percent for its biggest drop of 2012. Ten-year Treasury
yields reached a record low of 1.4387 percent that day. The S&P
500 has rallied 6 percent since then.  Earnings Season  The rebound in equities came after a 9.9 percent tumble
from a four-year high in April dragged the S&P 500 to 12.9 times
reported earnings, the  cheapest level  since November. Alcoa is
scheduled to unofficially start the second-quarter earnings
season when it releases results on July 9.  Analyst estimates  compiled by Bloomberg project a 1.8
percent decline in profits for S&P 500 companies in the April-
June period, which would mark the first year-over-year decrease
since 2009, even as revenue increased 2.5 percent. Analysts
still predict profit growth of 7.2 percent for the full year.  Slower-than-forecast growth in employment means labor costs
won’t be a threat to corporate profits, according to Neel Kashkari, head of global equities at Pacific Investment
Management Co.  “Corporate taxes are not going to go up, cost of labor is
going to stay low,” he said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “Market Makers” program today. “Corporate
profits can continue to stay strong in the short term.”  Pimco is being very selective when it comes to which stocks
to buy and is focusing on companies that should be more
resilient in the face of a global economic slowdown, Kashkari
said. He cited companies such as  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the
world’s largest retailer, low-fare carrier Spirit  Airlines (BUSAIRL)  Inc.
and drugmaker Merck & Co.  Largest Fund  “There are individual names that should do well in this
environment,” he said. The  Newport Beach , California-based
firm’s Pimco Total Return Fund is the world’s largest mutual
fund.  The risk of economic shocks from Europe’s debt crisis and
slowing growth in China create a flight to high-quality global
companies, Kashkari said. Investors should stop holding cash and
come back to the market before inflation accelerates as a result
of central bank policies meant to stimulate growth, he said.  “Investors are waiting on volatility, but earnings will
decay as prices around the economy rise,” he said. “Sitting in
cash is not a good option.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  