-- Unwind Options Wager Euro Will Fall Versus Aussie, Barclays Says
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-07-06T19:06:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/unwind-options-wager-euro-will-fall-versus-aussie-barclays-says.html
Investors who followed a
recommendation to bet via options that the euro would slide
against the Australian dollar should take profit on the
position, strategists at Barclays Plc said in a client note.  The Aussie is at risk of depreciating next week if Chinese
economic data signal the pace of growth waned in June, according
to a team that included Singapore-based Olivier Desbarres. The
outlook for no further policy action by the  European Central
Bank  after this week’s interest-rate cut and the outcome of a
meeting of European finance ministers July 9 may provide short-
term support for the 17-nation currency, the strategists wrote.  “We remain constructive on the Australian dollar and
bearish the euro medium term, but think that the risk-reward of
being short euro-Australia is not particularly appealing at this
juncture,” the strategists wrote. A short position is a bet an
asset will decline.  The euro was little changed today versus the Australian
dollar at A$1.2043, after sliding from a 2012 high of A$1.3031
on May 18. The common currency has slumped 7.8 percent over the
past year against nine developed-nation counterparts tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.  The Barclays strategists recommended on June 29 that
investors capitalize on probable depreciation in the euro versus
the Australian dollar by purchasing a so-called put spread. The
strategy, which involves a purchase and a sale of two euro-
Australian-dollar put options with different strike prices, was
designed to profit if the euro weakened. The trade was closed
today with a net gain of 90 basis points, or 0.90 percentage
point, the strategist wrote in the note.  The ECB reduced its  benchmark rate  yesterday to a record
low 0.75 percent and took its deposit rate to zero, as demand in
the economy was weak.  Europe ’s debt crisis has curbed growth
across the continent and damped the outlook for the world
economy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in  New York  at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  