-- Turkish Central Bank Says Keeping Cautious Monetary Stance
-- B y   A l i   B e r a t   M e r i c
-- 2012-07-06T14:47:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/turkish-central-bank-says-keeping-cautious-monetary-stance-2-.html
Turkish central bank governor Erdem Basci said the bank is maintaining its tight and cautious stance
with regard to liquidity.  Monetary policy  will remain cautious and an expected
downward revision in the bank’s  inflation  forecast for this year
shouldn’t be seen as monetary easing, Basci said in a televised
speech to businessmen in  Turkey ’s eastern city of Elazig today.  The central bank wants to see economists’ estimates for
inflation in two years time declining to its target of five
percent, Basci said. Inflation risks are easing and a gradual
decline in  core inflation  is expected, he said.  Basci introduced an interest rates corridor in August where
he lends at rates between  5.75 percent  and 11.5 percent to
control inflation and curb lending. The bank lent at an average
rate of 8.42 percent yesterday, the lowest level in more than
two months.  Yields on two-year benchmark bonds fell four basis points
to 8.02 percent at the close of trading at 5 p.m. in Istanbul
after rising as much as five basis points after Basci spoke.
Yields dropped for a ninth day, the longest streak of declines
in almost three years. The lira lost 0.6 percent to 1.8198 per
dollar, the weakest level this month.  The inflation rate climbed to 8.9 percent in June compared
with an average estimate of 9.5 percent in a survey of nine
economists, data published by the statistics agency in Ankara on
July 3 showed. Basci’s forecast for inflation this year is 6.5
percent.  Inflation is expected at 6.39 percent in 24 months,
according to a fortnightly central bank survey published on June
21.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ali Berat Meric in Ankara at 
 americ@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  