-- Vietnam Budget Income Falls in Challenge to Expansion Target
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-07-06T06:02:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/vietnam-budget-income-falls-in-challenge-to-expansion-target.html
Vietnam ’s state budget income dropped
in the first six months of 2012, making it more difficult for
the government to spur growth in an economy that has expanded at
a pace of below 5 percent this year.  State budget revenue dropped 1.7 percent in the first half
from the same period last year, to 346 trillion dong ($16.6
billion), equivalent to 46.7 percent of the target for the full
year, according to a statement from the Ministry of Finance.  The  economy  expanded 4.66 percent in the three months to
June from a year earlier, and the government faces a challenge
in meeting its 6-percent target in 2012 amid a deepening debt
crisis in  Europe  and a growth slowdown in  China . State income
for the first half fell as slower expansion hurt businesses,
according to the ministry’s statement today, even as the central
bank cut  interest rates  this year.  “Drops in the state revenue will seriously affect the
government’s plan of speeding up spending to boost the economy
toward the end of this year,” said Le Dang Doanh, a former
senior economist at the Ministry of Planning and Investment.
“The government may have to sell more bonds to raise funds,”
said Doanh, who has advised Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung.  Vietnam sold 79 trillion dong of  government bonds  in the
first half, three and half times the amount it raised from bond
sales in the same period last year, the State Securities
Commission said on its website yesterday.  Bond sales have benefited after Vietnam’s rating outlook
was raised last month by  Standard & Poor’s . They have also
increased due to a surplus of funds at banks as lending
decreased, according to Hoang Thanh Tam, head of fixed-income at
Vietnam Maritime Commercial Joint-Stock Bank in Hanoi.  “Banks haven’t given as many loans as they wanted to
because the current economic situation hurt businesses and
trimmed demand for loans,” Tam said before the finance ministry
report.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Nguyen Dieu Tu Uyen in Hanoi at 
 uyen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  