-- VW Taxes, Jones Day, Baker & McKenzie: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-07-06T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/vw-taxes-jones-day-baker-mckenzie-business-of-law.html
For  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , what a difference
a share made.  By paying the purchase price of 4.46 billion euros
($5.58 billion) plus one share of VW for the 50.1 percent stake
in  Porsche SE (PAH3) ’s automotive business it doesn’t already own, VW
is avoiding an additional tax bill of more than 900 million
euros.  The share payment allowed VW to classify the deal as a
restructuring rather than a takeover, a tax-saving plan approved
by German tax authorities, Bloomberg’s Aaron Kirchfeld and
Dorothee Tschampa report.  The deal structure was in large part the brain child of
Michael Schaden, a press-shy tax lawyer at Ernst & Young in
Stuttgart, according to people familiar with the transaction.
The Heidelberg-trained lawyer, who is also an approved attorney
at law in  New York , has been one of Porsche’s closest advisers
for years, said the people, who asked not to be identified
because they were not authorized to discuss it publicly.  The restructuring idea paved the way for VW to proceed with
the transaction two years earlier than planned after reaching an
agreement with German tax authorities, the carmaker said July 4.
The transaction also ends a seven-year takeover saga that
divided two of the most powerful families in  Germany .  The proposal takes advantage of the so-called
Umwandlungssteuergesetz, or reorganization tax act, VW said in
its statement. The idea was developed in conjunction with about
half a dozen Porsche and VW law firms and accountants including
Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP and Flick Gocke Schaumburg,
according to German legal trade publication  Juve Verlag .  VW will now pay “well over” 100 million euros in
transaction taxes on this deal, Chief Financial Officer Hans
Dieter Poetsch told reporters at a press conference at VW
headquarters in Wolfsburg. If VW had completed a traditional
takeover before August 2014, it would have resulted in at least
1 billion euros of taxes, Poetsch said in December 2010.  The restructuring maneuver, applauded by legal and banking
advisers, has drawn the ire of some politicians.  Schaden didn’t respond to an e-mail message and calls
seeking comment.  For more, click here.  Dewey Seeks to Pay Wind-Down Team $450,000 for Eight Weeks  Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP, the bankrupt law firm that owes
secured creditors more than $225 million, is seeking to pay
$450,000 in eight-week incentives, mostly to a team of “wind
down” specialists, according to a  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  filing
in  Manhattan .  Separately, Dewey said it wanted to hire another firm to
liquidate its  Frankfurt  office. The U.S. Trustee who supervises
bankruptcies has faulted Dewey for nine of about 11 proposed
hirings of firms, saying their work was unnecessary or
duplicative.  Dewey failed on May 28 owing more than $225 million to
secured lenders.  The case is In re Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP, 12-12321, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Indian Court Admits Plea Challenging Entry of Overseas Law Firms  India ’s top court admitted for hearing a petition filed by
the Bar Council of India challenging a lower court order
allowing foreign law firms to advise clients in the country,
according to a July 4 judgment by a two-judge panel headed by
R.M. Lodha.  The council is opposing any entry of foreign lawyers both
in litigation and non-litigation sectors as it is against Indian
laws, M.N. Krishnamani, an advocate representing the lawyers’
group, said in New Delhi.  Madras High Court ruled Feb. 21 that foreign law firms and
lawyers can’t be banned from coming to India for international
arbitration proceedings. Foreign law firms and foreign lawyers
aren’t allowed to practice Indian law unless they meet certain
rules, according to the decision.  Deals  Jones Day Advises Bayer CropScience in AgraQuest Acquisition  Bayer CropScience signed an agreement to buy AgraQuest
Inc., a global supplier of pest-management solutions, for
$425 million.  Jones Day Sao Paulo mergers and acquisitions partner Sanjiv Kapur led the team representing Bayer.  Baker & McKenzie  LLP is
advising AgraQuest. Baker partners Matthew Gemello in Palo Alto,
 California , and Dieter Schmitz in  Chicago  led the deal team.  “The Baker & McKenzie cross-border team provided excellent
support on this significant transaction for our company,”
Christina Huben, AgraQuest’s general counsel, said in a
statement. “Matthew’s extensive experience with venture-backed
emerging-growth technology companies and Dieter’s insight into
leading German companies were a perfect complement.”  Ivins, Phillips & Barker partners Jeffrey Moeller and
Rosina Barker represented Bayer on tax and employee-benefits
issues. Partner Tiffany Rose in Palo Alto also worked on the
deal.  The acquisition will enable Bayer CropScience to build a
technology platform for green products and to strengthen its
fruits and vegetables business, while opening opportunities in
other crops and markets, the firm said  “The growing fruits and vegetables market, which today
accounts for more than 25 percent of our sales, is of strategic
importance for us,” Sandra Peterson, chief executive officer of
 Bayer CropScience , said in a statement. “With the acquisition
of AgraQuest we are underlining our growth ambitions.”  Products made by AgraQuest, based in Davis, California,
include Serenade, Rhapsody, Sonata and Ballad fungicides and
Requiem insecticides.  Moves: International Round-Up  Jones Day expands Global Disputes Practice in London  Jones Day hired global disputes partners Christopher
Braithwaite and Baiju Vasani in  London .  Braithwaite, a finance litigation lawyer, will join from
Simmons & Simmons LLP in mid-July, the firm said. Vasani was
previously at Crowell & Moring LLP.  Braithwaite advises banks, financial institutions and other
clients on finance litigation and arbitration, regulatory
investigations and enforcement proceedings, and insurance
coverage issues and litigation.  Vasani serves as trial counsel in international
arbitrations involving common and civil-law legal systems,
national political establishments and inter-governmental
organizations, state-owned enterprises and sovereign
governments, the firm said.  “We are committed to strengthening our global disputes
offering in London and worldwide,” London Partner-in-Charge
John Phillips said in a statement.  Jones Day  has more than 2,400 lawyers in 35 offices
worldwide.  Dechert Hires Corporate Partner Friedl in Frankfurt  Dechert LLP said Dr. Markus J. Friedl joined the firm’s
corporate and securities group as a national partner in the
Frankfurt office. Friedl was most recently counsel at SZA
Schilling, Zutt & Anschutz, the firm said.  “Since opening in Frankfurt in January 2012, we have been
determined to continue expanding our corporate practice in one
of the world’s key financial centers,” Sven Schulte-Hillen, a
corporate partner who joined the firm in March, said in a
statement. “A talented lawyer such as Markus with a real focus
on M&A is exactly what we need to make our German corporate
practice even stronger.”  Friedl focuses on advising companies and financial
investors on national and cross-border mergers and acquisitions
transactions and restructurings, as well as on general corporate
and corporate finance law matters.  Dechert has more than 25 lawyers in Germany working in the
firm’s Munich and Frankfurt offices, which were established in
2004 and 2012, respectively. The firm has 26 offices in 12
countries across the U.S.,  Europe ,  Asia  and the  Middle East .  K&L Gates Adds to Brussels Office with Food Law Partner  The Brussels office of K&L Gates LLP hired Sebastian Romero
Melchor as a partner in its food, drugs, medical devices and
cosmetics practice.  Romero Melchor joins from Food Law Consultants, a Brussels-
based boutique firm focused on European Union food and nutrition
law, where he was founder and managing partner, the firm said.  Romero Melchor represents multinational firms and food and
drink trade associations on matters such as EU regulatory law
and policy, food labeling and advertising issues, product
registration and product liability, among others.  “K&L Gates combines a truly global food and drug practice
with a pioneering government solutions strategy in Brussels, and
this is what our clients are increasingly demanding,” Romero
Melchor said.  K&L Gates has almost 2,000 lawyers in 41 offices in  North
America , Europe, Asia,  South America  and the Middle East.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in  Brooklyn , New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 