-- Wisconsin Top Court Refuses to Reopen Labor Law Challenge
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-07-06T16:46:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/wisconsin-top-court-refuses-to-reopen-labor-law-challenge.html
Wisconsin’s top court declined to
reopen a legal challenge to Governor  Scott Walker ’s curb on the
collective bargaining rights of public employees.  The law, backed by Walker, requires annual recertification
votes for public employee union representation and makes dues-
payment voluntary. It sparked public protests and a recall
election that Walker, a Republican, won last month.  A divided state Supreme Court today deadlocked 3-3 on a
vote to reopen the case, rejecting Dane County District Attorney
Ismael Ozanne’s assertion that a seventh justice, Michael Gableman, should have disqualified himself from hearing it. The
court last year upheld the law 4 to 3 with Gableman in the
majority. A tie vote would have let stand a lower-court ruling
invalidating the statute.  Gableman failed to disclose he’d received free legal
counsel from a  law firm  that was then defending the collective
bargaining measure, Ozanne said in a December filing. The
justice refused to step back from the case.  Ozanne claimed that Republican legislators crafted the
measure in violation of a state open-meetings law. Wisconsin’s
capital, Madison, is the Dane County seat.  “We determine that Justice Gableman made the required
subjective determination that he could be impartial in the case
and that it would appear that he could act in an impartial
manner,” three justices said in a three-paragraph decision.  Chief Justice Shirley Abrahamson, joined by two other
judges in a 44-paragraph dissent, disagreed, saying Gableman
himself misstated the grounds for the prosecutor’s request.  “Nowhere in Justice Gableman’s order is there any
reference to payment (or absence of payment) for legal
services,” Abrahamson said, adding his decision failed to
demonstrate whether he could, or whether it appeared he could,
be impartial.  The statute is also under attack in federal court.  The case is Ozanne v. Fitzgerald, 2011AP613-LV,  Wisconsin 
Supreme Court (Madison).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in  Chicago 
at   aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 