-- With U.S. Economy Stuck, Fiscal Fix Can’t Wait Any Longer
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-07-06T18:47:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/with-u-s-economy-stuck-fiscal-fix-can-t-wait-any-longer.html
Today’s dismal jobs  report  is another
sobering reminder that the  U.S. economy  is stuck, if not headed
in reverse.  Employers added a modest 80,000 jobs in June, falling short
of the 100,000 gain that economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
had predicted. That rate is nowhere near the pace needed to
lower 8.2 percent unemployment.  The lackluster job growth comes on the heels of an
Institute for Supply Management  report  this week showing that
the manufacturing sector had contracted in June for the first
time since July 2009. Household spending, central to powering
the economic recovery, fell slightly in May.  The silver lining is that private employers added jobs for
the 28th straight month and other indicators of the economy’s
health -- number of hours worked, hourly wages and temporary
jobs -- picked up slightly. The 8.2 percent jobless rate
remained unchanged, and fewer people stopped looking for work.  Still, it’s clear the recovery, which started out strong in
the first half of 2012, is stagnating. Many economists and
investors are looking to the  Federal Reserve , which last month
extended its Operation Twist bond-buying program in the hopes of
flooding the market with cheap credit. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
has said the Fed remains open to doing more if the economy shows
signs of a severe slowdown. Analysts say today’s jobs reports is
a flashing neon sign for further Fed action.  Stubborn Logjam  But this isn’t a problem that only the Fed can -- or should
-- solve. As Bernanke has said, monetary policy can only do so
much to break the stubborn logjam preventing consumers from
spending and businesses from investing and hiring. Look no
further than Thursday’s collective market shrug after three
central banks in  Europe  and  China  took uncoordinated steps to
stimulate borrowing and spending.  At some point, elected officials in both parties are going
to have to take steps to get the economy growing faster. What’s
needed has been clear for a long time: Resolve the uncertainty
about expiring tax breaks and looming spending cuts; create
short-term fiscal stimulus; and outline a more sustainable long-
term fiscal path.  President  Barack Obama , on a two-day  campaign bus tour 
through Ohio and  Pennsylvania , said Friday that it’s “still
tough out there.” He could help make it easier by taking the
lead to clear up the fiscal confusion.  What would that look like? We suggest a short-term stimulus
package, such as a temporary tax rebate or expansion of the
payroll tax cut, and a clear articulation of the coming $600
billion in spending cuts and tax increases he’s willing to
accept. Obama could also make another stab at negotiating with
Congress over a long-term deficit reduction plan, such as that
proposed by the  Simpson-Bowles  fiscal commission, to show the
U.S. is serious about resolving its bloated  budget deficit .  None of this will be easy, and a heated campaign season
only makes it tougher. But policy makers must put Americans
ahead of personal and political-party ambitions -- yes, even in
an election year.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 