-- World’s Richest Lose $1.4 Billion as Spain’s Ortega Drops
-- B y   J o s e p h i n e   F o r s t e r
-- 2012-07-06T23:30:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/world-s-richest-lose-1-4-billion-as-spain-s-ortega-drops.html
     July 6 (Bloomberg)-- The world’s wealthiest people dropped
a combined $1.4 billion from their collective net worth this
week as global equity indexes sputtered.  Eight of the planet’s 10 richest people saw their fortunes
decline, led by  Amancio Ortega  of Spain. Europe’s richest man
shed $2 billion from his fortune as shares of  Inditex SA (ITX) , the
world’s largest clothing retailer, fell 3.4 percent from a
record on July 3. Ortega, 76, maintained his position as the
world’s fourth-richest person on the  Bloomberg Billionaires
Index , a daily measure of the world’s wealthiest people.  Central bank rate cuts in Europe and China did little to
bolster global markets. The European Central Bank reduced its
benchmark rate to a record low of 0.75 percent in an effort to
revive  consumer spending . The People’s Bank of China cut rates
for the second time in a month in response to estimates that
lowered the country’s GDP growth forecast to 7.8 percent from
8.1 percent.  “The  capital markets  are getting tired of the rhetoric and
they are getting tired of monetary policy,” said  Jack Ablin ,
who helps oversee $60 billion at BMO Harris Private Bank in
Chicago. “Eventually they are going to need to see some
substantive action and it remains to be seen whether or not
European policy makers are up to the task.”  The Dow Jones Stoxx 600 Index rose 1.3 percent this week,
its fifth straight weekly advance. In the U.S., where job growth
for June was slower than forecast, the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index lost 0.6 percent in New York.  Slim, Buffett  Carlos Slim , 72, remains No. 1 in the world with a net
worth of $72.1 billion. The telecommunications tycoon lost $314
million this week after his wireless carrier,  America Movil SAB (AMXL) ,
failed to force the Mexican government to grant it a pay-TV
license after an appeals court ruled against the company.  Bill Gates  is $10.1 billion behind Slim. The 56-year-old
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  co-founder dropped $321 million after shares of
the Redmond, Washington-based  company  fell 1.3 percent.
Microsoft said it would take a $6.2 billion writedown related to
its purchase of AQuantive Inc. The accounting change will
probably mean the company will report a loss for the quarter,
which ended in June.  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. Chairman  Warren Buffett , 81, ranks
third on the index with a net worth of $46.1 billion. His
fortune dropped $387 million for the week.  Three of the week’s biggest gainers came out of Asia. Cheng
Yu Tung’s fortune jumped $1.9 billion after Chow Tai Fook
Jewellery Group Ltd., the world’s biggest jewelry retailer,
reported a 79 percent jump in net income fueled by strong demand
for luxury goods in China.  Asia’s Richest  Hong Kong property magnate Lee Shau Kee, 84, climbed three
places on the list to 30th as China’s rate cuts helped buoy the
real estate market. Lee is worth $18.6 billion.  Meanwhile, Asia’s richest man,  Li Ka-Shing , gained $723
million as shares of his conglomerate, Hutchison Whampoa Ltd.,
rose 6.2 percent this week after announcing it would form a
joint venture with Vodafone Group Ltd. in Ireland. Li ranks 14th
on the list with a net worth of $23.6 billion.  The Bloomberg Billionaires Index takes measure of the
world’s wealthiest people based on market and economic changes
and Bloomberg News reporting. Each net worth figure is updated
every business day at 5:30 p.m. in New York and listed in U.S.
dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josephine Forster in London at 
 jforster13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew G. Miller at 
 mmiller144@bloomberg.net  