-- World Atomic Output Falls by Record in Fukushima’s Aftermath
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2012-07-06T13:27:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/world-atomic-power-output-falls-by-record-in-fukushima-aftermath.html
World nuclear power production
dropped by a record 4.3 percent last year as the global
financial crisis and the Fukushima disaster in  Japan  prompted
plant shutdowns and slowed construction of new sites.  Reactors generated 2,518 terawatt-hours of electricity,
down from 2,630 terawatt-hours in 2010, according to the  World
Nuclear Industry Status Report 2012  published today. Atomic
power accounted for 11 percent of all electricity generation.  The meltdown of  Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501) ’s Fukushima Dai-
Ichi plant in March last year drove countries including  Germany ,
 Switzerland  and Taiwan to announce their withdrawal from nuclear
power. Global output was further restricted as nations put new-
build plans on hold amid safety concern and economic stagnation,
forcing utilities to study extending the lives of current sites.  “The situation is much worse for the industry than after
Chernobyl,” said Mycle Schneider, co-author of the report,
referring to the 1986 accident in  Ukraine . “New projects have a
very dull future, but it will put enormous pressure on extending
lifetimes and that raises obvious safety issues.”  Seven reactors began operating in 2011 and 19 were
shuttered, the report shows.  France , Germany, Japan,  Russia ,
 South Korea  and the U.S. -- six of the 31 countries that produce
atomic power -- generated more than 70 percent of the total.  Plans Scrapped  At least five nations, including  Egypt , Italy and Kuwait,
have suspended plans to build their first reactors, according to
the report. In the U.K.,  RWE AG (RWE) ,  EON AG (EOAN) , and  SSE Plc (SSE)  have all
abandoned new-build proposals in the past 12 months, while
companies in Japan and Bulgaria have suspended construction. The
Fukushima crisis also led to certification and licensing delays.  Even countries such as the  United Arab Emirates , intent on
using nuclear power to meet a third of electricity demand by
2020, can’t get the financing they need, Schneider said in an
interview.  “If banks don’t want to lend the money then where is this
supposed to come from?” he said. “The financial situation has
dramatically worsened since Fukushima and there is almost no
exception to the rule.”  Electricite de France SA, the world’s biggest operator of
nuclear reactors, has said a decision to extend the lives of two
U.K. plants will hinge on their commercial viability, as well as
regulatory safety reviews. All of Britain’s reactors are due to
close by 2035, leaving it short of more than 10,000 megawatts of
baseload generation.  There are 59 nuclear reactors being built globally and at
least 18 are experiencing “multiyear” delays, according to
today’s report. Nine have been listed by the  International
Atomic Energy Agency  as “under construction” for more than 20
years, the authors said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  