-- Yahoo, Facebook Settle Patent Dispute
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-07-06T21:18:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/yahoo-facebook-settle-patent-dispute.html
Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  and  Facebook (FB)  Inc. settled
a patent litigation case that began in March, while starting a
new advertising partnership and strengthening distribution
arrangements.  The settlement includes a cross-license agreement,
according to a statement today. The companies said they will
work together to bring advertisers ways to promote their
products across Yahoo and Facebook’s websites. Facebook users
will also get access to Yahoo’s media event coverage.  Yahoo filed the original lawsuit under the leadership of
 Scott Thompson , who resigned as chief executive officer in May
amid pressure from investors, after failing to correct
misstatements in his academic record. In the March lawsuit,
Yahoo alleged that Facebook infringes patents covering such
functions as Internet privacy, advertising and information
sharing. Facebook, the largest social-networking service,
countersued in April, accusing Yahoo of infringement.  Ross Levinsohn  stepped in as interim chief executive after
Thompson’s departure and is being considered as a permanent CEO,
among other candidates, people familiar with the matter have
said. Levinsohn and Sandberg helped work out the terms,
according to other people familiar with the matter.  “We were able to resolve this in a positive manner and
look forward to partnering closely with Ross and the leadership
at Yahoo,”  Sheryl Sandberg , Facebook’s chief operating officer,
said in the statement. “Yahoo’s new leaders are driven by a
renewed focus on innovation and providing great products to
users.”  Suit, Countersuit  Yahoo, in the lawsuit filed March 12, sought an order
barring Facebook from infringing 10 patents. It also sought
triple damages. In the countersuit, Facebook accused Yahoo of
infringing 10 patents through its home page and the Flickr-photo
sharing service.  The end to the patent dispute may free Facebook from
potential challenges the social-network website warned investors
about in March.  “If an unfavorable outcome were to occur in this
litigation, the impact could be material to our business,
financial condition or results of operations,” Facebook, which
sold shares in an initial public offering in May, said in a
March 27 filing.  Facebook, based in  Menlo Park ,  California , rose less than 1
percent to $31.73 at the close, while Yahoo fell less than 1
percent to $15.78.  Neither company has filed a request to have the case
dismissed, according to court records.  The case is Yahoo! Inc. v. Facebook, 12-cv-01212, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of California ( San Francisco ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  