-- Yahoo Left Weighing Levinsohn for CEO Job as Hulu’s Kilar Exits
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-07-06T19:07:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/yahoo-said-to-consider-hulu-s-kilar-for-chief-executive-officer.html
Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO) ’s list of possible chief
executive officer candidates narrowed after Hulu LLC Chief
Executive Officer  Jason Kilar  said he doesn’t want the job.  “As has been reported, Jason Kilar has been a focus of the
Yahoo CEO search committee,” Hulu said in a statement. “He has
graciously declined to be considered.”  Kilar’s decision puts the emphasis on Ross Levinsohn,
Yahoo’s interim CEO, who, according to people with knowledge of
the matter, is also in contention for the CEO role.  Yahoo seeks a CEO who can revive growth and quell the
management upheaval that has put five executives at the helm
since 2009. Scott Thompson exited in May after failing to
correct an error in his academic credentials. He followed Tim
Morse, who became interim CEO last year after the company fired
its previous CEO, Carol Bartz, amid customer and market-share
losses to rivals including Google Inc. and Facebook Inc.  Bartz was named CEO in January 2009, succeeding co-Founder
 Jerry Yang .  Kilar, a former executive at Amazon.com Inc., became CEO of
Hulu in early 2008. On his watch, the online TV service owned by
 Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ABC,  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC and  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox
grew to more than 2 million  paid subscribers .  Levinsohn, who became interim CEO in May, has already
overseen management changes. Last month, the company named
Google’s Michael Barrett as chief revenue officer, who is slated
to join Yahoo this month. Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. agreed in
May to repurchase about a 20 percent stake in itself from Yahoo
for about $7.1 billion.  After Levinsohn was named interim CEO, Fred Amoroso, board
chairman, said in a meeting with employees that he would like to
see Levinsohn become permanent CEO, according to a person who
was briefed on the matter.  Charles Sipkins , a spokesman for the board, which is
conducting the search, declined to comment on the matter.  Yahoo, based in Sunnyvale, California, fell less than 1
percent to $15.76 at 2:52 p.m. in New York. Through yesterday,
the shares had lost 1.7 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  