-- Yahoo, Facebook Said to Reach Settlement on Patents
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-07-06T19:50:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-06/yahoo-facebook-are-said-to-reach-settlement-in-patent-dispute.html
Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  and  Facebook (FB)  Inc. reached
a settlement in a patent dispute, while agreeing to strengthen
an alliance between the companies, people with knowledge of the
matter said.  Facebook Chief Operating Officer  Sheryl Sandberg  and
Yahoo’s interim chief executive officer,  Ross Levinsohn , helped
work out the terms, said the people, who asked not to be
identified because the matter is private. Boards of both
companies have agreed to the deal, one person said.  The agreement includes patent-portfolio cross-licensing,
one person said, resolving a dispute kicked off in March, when
Yahoo alleged that Facebook infringes patents covering such
functions as Internet privacy, advertising and information
sharing. Facebook, the largest social-networking service,
countersued in April, accusing Yahoo of infringement.  Larry Yu, a spokesman for Facebook, and Sheila Tran, a
spokeswoman for Sunnyvale, California-based Yahoo, didn’t
immediately respond to phone messages seeking comment.  Yahoo filed the original lawsuit under the leadership of
 Scott Thompson , who resigned in May amid pressure from
investors, after failing to correct misstatements in his
academic record. Levinsohn stepped in after Thompson’s departure
and is being considered as a permanent CEO, among other
candidates, people familiar with the matter have said.  Suit, Countersuit  Yahoo, in the lawsuit filed March 12 in federal court in
San Jose, California, sought an order barring Facebook from
infringing 10 patents. It also sought triple damages. In the
countersuit, Facebook accused Yahoo of infringing 10 patents
through its home page and the Flickr-photo sharing service.  An end to the patent dispute may free Facebook from
potential challenges the social-network website warned investors
about in March.  “If an unfavorable outcome were to occur in this
litigation, the impact could be material to our business,
financial condition or results of operations,” Facebook, which
sold shares in an initial public offering in May, said in a
March 27 filing.  Facebook, based in Menlo Park, California, rose less than 1
percent to $31.70 at 3:46 p.m.  New York  time, while Yahoo fell
less than 1 percent to $15.81.  The technology blog AllThingsD previously reported the
settlement and deeper ties between Yahoo and Facebook.  The case is Yahoo! Inc. v. Facebook, 12-cv-01212, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of California ( San Francisco ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  