-- Lacker Says Government Should Be Ready to Let Big Banks Fail
-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 2013-04-09T16:07:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/lacker-says-government-should-be-ready-to-let-big-banks-fail.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond
President Jeffrey Lacker said plans to limit the size or change
the structure of the largest financial institutions must be made
with the intent of allowing a failure without government aid.  “It makes perfect sense to constrain the scale and scope
of financial firms in a way that ensures that they can be
resolved in an orderly manner, without government protection for
creditors,” Lacker told a conference at the University of
Richmond.  U.S. regulators and lawmakers are searching for ways to
limit the risk that a large bank failure will result in another
taxpayer-funded bailout. Senate Republicans and Democrats are
discussing legislation that would boost capital standards, while
Fed officials are discussing ways to limit the safety net and
curb balance-sheet expansion at the largest banks.  While the Dodd Frank Act’s preamble says its intent is to
“end ‘too-big-to-fail,’” some of the largest banks may still
benefit from the perception that they would be rescued by the
government, Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke told
lawmakers in February.  “We need to be working in the direction of eliminating it
entirely,” Bernanke told the House Financial Services Committee
on Feb. 27.  Living Wills  The Dodd-Frank Act required firms to write living wills, or
plans that describe how they would be wound down in the event of
failure. Lacker said one flaw in the law is that it has
provisions for temporary government support.  “The FDIC does have the ability to deviate in some
important ways from what might occur under bankruptcy. In
particular, it can make payments to creditors it deems
‘necessary,’ and it can draw on funds from the Treasury to do
so,” Lacker said.  That provision “opens the door” for creditors to believe
there is the possibility they could be bailed out leading them
to “pay less attention to risk than they should.” The more
widespread the expectations of support, the more pressure there
will be on regulators to provide it, he said.  “A credible funding plan that avoids adverse effects,
without resorting to government” financing “might seem
daunting,” Lacker said at the University of Richmond. He
recommended a private form of debtor-in-possession financing and
said improving liquidity management at large banks.  ‘Incentive-Corroding’  “I see no other way to achieve a situation in which policy
makers consistently prefer unassisted bankruptcy to incentive-
corroding intervention and investors are convinced that
unassisted bankruptcy is the norm,” Lacker told the conference.  The Richmond Fed president also said that requiring
globally active firms to cut their businesses into subsidiaries
“with separate capital and liquidity holdings” could also aid
resolution.  “The ability to expeditiously sell material foreign
operations would provide valuable flexibility,” Lacker said.  Lacker said he has been “chagrined” by the lack of reform
for money market mutual funds. He called reform of the industry
“a major piece of unfinished business” in part because of the
perceived safety net that investors can always pull their money
out at a dollar per share.  The KBW Bank Index, which tracks the shares of 24 large
U.S. banking companies, rose 8.8 percent this year, compared
with a 9.5 percent gain for the Standard & Poor’s 500 stock
index.  Banks have boosted capital levels since the crisis as
regulators demand larger buffers against loss. Bernanke said the
aggregate Tier 1 common equity ratio at the 18 largest banks
rose to 11.3 percent at the end of 2012 from 5.6 percent of
risk-weighted assets at the end of 2008.  ‘Better Position’  “Higher capital puts these firms in a much better position
to absorb future losses,” Bernanke said yesterday at an Atlanta
Fed conference in Stone Mountain,  Georgia .  Senate Democrats and Republicans are drafting legislation
that would require U.S. regulators to replace an international
capital accord with even higher standards.  Under Basel III, banks must hold at least 7 percent of Tier
1 capital against a bank’s risk-weighted assets, plus as much as
a 2.5 percent for some of the world’s largest and most complex
banks.  Senators Sherrod Brown, a Democrat from  Ohio , and David Vitter, a Republican from  Louisiana , intend to introduce a bill
this month that would require U.S. regulators to replace Basel
III requirements with a higher capital standard: 10 percent for
all banks and an additional 5 percent for institutions with more
than $400 billion in assets.  Lacker didn’t comment on monetary policy in the text of his
remarks. He said in a question and answer period with reporters
that a gain of just 88,000 nonfarm jobs in March didn’t lower
his forecast for 2013.  “My forecast is intact,” he said. “This recovery is one
with some stretches of above trend growth, and some stretches of
below trend growth.”  Lacker estimated the economy will grow between 2 percent
and 2.25 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story: Craig Torres in
Washington at   ctorres3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  