-- Adults Skipping Medicines to Save Money, Research Finds
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-04-09T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/adults-skipping-medicines-to-save-money-research-finds.html
Adults who haven’t reached
 retirement age  were twice as likely as those who have to skip
their prescribed medications to save money, a U.S. study found.  About 20 percent of adults regardless of age have asked
their doctors for a lower cost treatment, according to the study
released today by the Atlanta-based  Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention . Spending on drugs is expected to increase an
average of  6.6 percent  a year from 2015 through 2021, the  Kaiser
Family Foundation  has reported.  Americans spent $45 billion out-of-pocket on retail
prescription drugs in 2011, the CDC said. The Affordable Care
Act is expected to expand access in 2014 when medication
coverage is considered an essential benefit of any health plan
offered in new insurance marketplaces called exchanges.  “If you’re not insured or you face high co-payments,
you’re going to stretch your prescriptions,” said  Steve Morgan ,
an associate professor at the University of British Columbia’s
School of Population and  Public Health  in  Vancouver . “Even
among insured populations, there is this invincibility mindset
among the very young. Older people are more likely to adhere to
chronic therapies over a longer period of time than younger.”  Today’s study found 13 percent of those ages 18 to 64
reported not taking their medications as prescribed to reduce
costs compared with 5.8 percent of those 65 and older. The 2011
data came from the National Health Interview Survey. Most U.S.
adults are  eligible  at age 65 for Medicare, the federal
government’s health program.  Drug Spending  About 90 percent of seniors and 57 percent of non-elderly
adults had a prescription drug expense in 2010, according to the
 Kaiser foundation , a nonprofit health research group based in
 Menlo Park ,  California .  Strategies that alter the way adults take their medications
include skipping doses and consuming less than the prescribed
amount. About 11 percent of those 18 to 64 also delayed filling
a prescription compared with 4.4 percent of those 65 and older,
according to the survey. Uninsured adults were more likely to
have tried to stretch their medications than those with
Medicaid, the federal-state health program for the poor, and
those with private insurance.  Failing to take medication as prescribed may increase costs
to the U.S. health system, particularly from exacerbated
conditions that lead to increased hospitalizations, Morgan said
in a telephone interview.  About 2 percent of adults regardless of age bought
 prescription drugs  from another country to reduce costs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  