-- Afghan-Taliban Peace Key to Halt War, U.K. Panel Says
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-04-09T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/afghan-taliban-peace-key-to-halt-war-u-k-panel-says.html
The Afghan government must
negotiate peace with the Taliban to prevent progress in the
country from unraveling after the withdrawal of foreign troops
at the end of 2014, a panel of U.K. lawmakers said.  The cross-party  House of Commons Defence Committee  said
today Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s government has a
responsibility to use its influence to “make a post-2014
Afghanistan work.” It warned that a lack of progress in
reducing violence “does not augur well for improving security
and economic development on a long-term sustainable basis.”  In a report published in  London  today, the panel said both
the Afghan government and the Taliban “have to give ground” in
negotiations. It stressed there must be “free and fair
elections” and that women should be involved in the  peace
process  to make sure it doesn’t unravel.  “We have received starkly opposing predictions for
Afghanistan’s outlook post 2014,” the committee’s chairman,
James Arbuthnot from Cameron’s  Conservative Party , said in an e-
mailed statement. “The fact is that the U.K. has limited
influence. Indeed, it is for the Afghan people themselves to
determine their own future.”  The panel pointed to other countries in the region as
important for bringing about security in  Afghanistan , such as
 Pakistan , China, India and Iran.  “I welcome the publication of this report, which shares
our vision of an Afghanistan that can maintain its own security
and never again be a safe haven for international terrorism,”
Defence Secretary Philip Hammond said in an e-mailed statement.
“The fact that Afghan security forces are now leading on more
than 80 percent of all security operations across the country
shows we are well on the way to achieving that aim.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  