-- Agrium Says None of Jana’s Nominees Elected to Board
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e   a n d   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n
-- 2013-04-09T21:37:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/agrium-says-none-of-jana-s-nominees-elected-to-board.html
Agrium Inc. (AGU)  investors rejected five
dissident nominees to the board promoted by activist shareholder
Jana Partners LLC, which has called for changes at the Canadian
fertilizer maker.  The New York-based hedge fund, Agrium’s largest  shareholder 
with a 7.5 percent stake, has been pushing the company to spin
off its retail division, a network of agricultural outlets that
sells seeds, fertilizer and crop-protection chemicals to
farmers. The Calgary-based company also produces nitrogen,
potash and phosphate-based crop nutrients.  Agrium’s victory, unveiled today at its annual meeting in
Calgary, allows Chief Executive Officer Mike Wilson to proceed
with his strategy of expanding the company’s retail network to
help counterbalance volatile fertilizer prices.  Jana “obviously chose the wrong target,” Wilson said
after the meeting.  “Now we can go and focus on what’s important to
shareholders and that’s growing the company and expanding
 shareholder value ,” Wilson said. “Our integrated strategy is
working. We don’t expect any changes to our strategy.”  Since Jana first approached Agrium in May, the Canadian
company has improved transparency, bought back shares, increased
its dividend and added directors with experience in bulk
agricultural-chemicals distribution.  Shareholder Activism  Agrium is the latest Canadian company to face activist
shareholders aiming to boost returns. Last year billionaire
hedge fund manager  William Ackman  succeeded in unseating board
members and installing a new CEO at  Canadian Pacific Railway
Ltd. (CP)  Other company’s shares, including those of  SNC-Lavalin
Group Inc. (SNC) , have rallied after minority investors sought to
shake up management to boost earnings or spin off businesses.  “In the short term, we believe the stock will be
challenged as the activism story that had driven so much
interest in Agrium now transitions to one of ‘‘what now?’’”
Matthew Korn, a New York-based analyst at Barclays Plc, said
today in a note to clients.  Agrium ended the day  down  2.8 percent at C$96.55 in Toronto
after paring a drop of as much as 4.8 percent.  The shares  have
declined 2.6 percent this year.  Jana has contended that the full value of the retail unit
has been lost within Agrium, while Agrium has argued it provides
a useful offset to downturns in commodity markets.  Falling Prices  Agrium still faces the headwind of falling grain prices,
including a  bear market  in corn, that may leave farmers with
less money for agricultural chemicals and other farm inputs.  Jana, which was founded in 2001 and invests in companies
undergoing changes such as mergers, spinoffs and bankruptcies,
promised to keep up the pressure on Agrium’s management.  “You will find we are just as vocal and active outside of
a proxy contest as we are within it,” Jana co-founder and
managing partner  Barry Rosenstein  said at the meeting. “We will
not hesitate to speak up should Agrium go back to its old ways,
and we are not going away.”  Jana’s nominees to Agrium’s board were Rosenstein; David Bullock, a former chief financial officer of Graham Packaging
Inc.; Stephen Clark, the former CEO of German chemicals
distributor  Brenntag AG (BNR) ; MSC Industrial Direct Co. Chairman
Mitchell Jacobson; and Lyle Vanclief, a former Canadian minister
of agriculture.  Rosenstein accused Agrium of “vote buying” by offering to
pay a fee to investment advisers and brokers for shares voted in
favor of Agrium’s directors. Wilson said today that the practice
is commonplace.  “This is the worst example of entrenched, power-hungry-at-
any-cost behavior I have ever witnessed,” Rosenstein told
shareholders before the vote. He said Agrium’s board lied to
shareholders and labeled him a “ New York  hedge fund
billionaire.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net ;
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  