-- Thai Baht Jumps Most in 10 Months as Japan Easing Fuels Inflows
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2013-04-09T10:22:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/thai-baht-bonds-advance-as-boj-easing-seen-driving-more-inflows.html
Thailand ’s baht jumped the most in
10 months, breaching 29 per dollar for the first time since
1997, as demand for the nation’s bonds rose amid unprecedented
monetary easing in  Japan . Stocks dropped to a two-month low.  The currency jumped 1 percent from its April 5 close to
29.02 against the greenback as of 4:51 p.m. in Bangkok after
reaching 28.93 earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
That’s the biggest advance since June 4. The yield on sovereign
debt due June 2023 fell three basis points to 3.46 percent, the
lowest level since Nov. 6. Local financial markets were shut
yesterday for a holiday.  Today’s baht gains were “too fast” and the Bank of
Thailand is ready to intervene if the currency’s moves are not
consistent with fundamentals, Governor Prasarn Trairatvorakul
said in Bangkok. Capital controls are not being considered, he
added. Global funds  bought  $292 million more Thai government
debt than they sold last week, adding to net purchases of $9.6
billion in the first quarter, official data show. That compares
with $31 billion for the whole of 2012.  “With floods of cash in Japan where rates are so low,
investors are seeking higher returns and in this region,
Thailand looks good thanks to its stable economy and political
situation,” said  Tsutomu Soma , manager of Rakuten Securities
Inc.’s fixed-income business unit department in  Tokyo . “And the
weaker yen won’t be harmful for Thailand as it doesn’t compete
with Japan, unlike  South Korea  or  China .”  Best Performer  Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra has eased tensions since
taking power in 2011 by shelving measures that would allow a
return of  Thaksin Shinawatra , her brother, who was ousted in a
2006 military coup. Gross domestic product increased 6.4 percent
last year, trailing only the  Philippines ’ 6.6 percent growth
among Southeast  Asia ’s five biggest economies.  The baht has strengthened 5.3 percent this year versus the
greenback, the biggest gain among Asia’s 11 most-used
currencies, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It reached
28.93 earlier today, the strongest level since a devaluation in
1997 that sparked the Asian financial crisis.  Neighboring  Malaysia ’s ringgit rose less than 1 percent
this year amid concern falling support for Prime Minister Najib
Razak would jeopardize economic reforms and  Indonesia ’s rupiah
weakened 0.8 percent. Foreign funds have been shunning Malaysian
debt due to the political uncertainty and avoiding Indonesian
bonds because of its current-account deficit, boosting inflows
into Thailand, Prasarn said March 20.  Yen Slide  The  Bank of Japan (8301)  said last week it plans to purchase 7.5
trillion yen ($78.6 billion) of bonds a month and double the
monetary base, which includes cash in circulation, in two years.
The yen tumbled 13 percent this year against the dollar
following an 11 percent slide in 2012.  The weaker yen may have a positive impact on Thailand as
the country is part of Japan’s supply chain, Prasarn said today.
It may also spur demand for the baht among investors, he added.
The Japanese currency touched a four-year low of 99.66 per
dollar today.  “Japan’s monetary easing is leading to speculation of more
incoming funds to Asia,” said Disawat Tiaowvanich, a foreign-
exchange trader at  Bangkok Bank Pcl. (BBL)  “That’s supporting the
baht and government bonds.”  Bullish Options  Options traders are the most bullish on the baht since July
2006. Call options granting the right to buy the currency in a
month cost 0.16 percentage point more than put contracts
yesterday and today, the biggest premium since July 2006.  The Bank of Thailand held its benchmark  interest rate  at
2.75 percent on April 3, even amid calls for a cut by Finance
Minister Kittiratt Na-Ranong. He said that day he wasn’t
comfortable with the level of borrowing costs that are
attracting capital inflows. The rate compares with a maximum of
0.25 percent in the U.S. and 0.1 percent in Japan.  Today’s baht “move was probably exaggerated as onshore
markets were closed for a public holiday yesterday,” said Kozo Hasegawa, a foreign-exchange trader in Bangkok at Sumitomo
Mitsui Banking Corp. “In addition, a break of the recent high
and the 29 level also accelerated the move. The BOJ stimulus
theme is still a factor in the market.”  Global funds sold a net $306 million Thai equities last
week, taking this year’s net sales to $182 million, according to
exchange data. The  SET Index (SET)  slid 1.3 percent today, closing at
the lowest level since Jan. 25.  Bangkok Bank Pcl dropped 2.6 percent, pacing declines in
banking stocks on the Thai bourse. An extended holiday period
next week is causing a drop in trading volume, and Thai share
valuations remain attractive, Charamporn Jotikasthira, the Thai
stock exchange’s president, told reporters today.  New Fund    The baht was also boosted by overseas purchases of units in
an infrastructure fund that’s being sold by the operator of
Bangkok’s elevated SkyTrain network, Governor Prasarn said. The
sale of the fund also drew money away from the local stock
market, Charamporn said.  BTS Group Holdings Pcl’s BTS Rail Mass Transit Growth
Infrastructure Fund is raising about 62.5 billion baht ($2.2
billion) in Thailand’s biggest initial public offering. The fund
sold 5.79 billion units at 10.8 baht apiece, BTS said on April
5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  