-- AIG to Release Diversity Data After Pressure From Liu
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-04-09T13:59:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/aig-to-release-diversity-data-after-pressure-from-liu.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) ,
the insurer that repaid a U.S. bailout last year, will release
workforce-diversity data after pressure from New York City
Comptroller and mayoral candidate  John Liu .  Bank of New York Mellon Corp.  and U.S. Bancorp will join
AIG in disclosing data about the race and gender of their U.S.
employees and senior managers, according to a statement today
from Liu’s office.  “Diversity is good for the bottom line, but without
meaningful disclosure there is no way for shareowners to
evaluate the effectiveness of a company’s efforts to recruit and
promote women and minorities,” Liu said in the statement. “We
hope that more portfolio firms demonstrate their commitment, not
just to workforce diversity but also boardroom diversity and
equal pay.”  Liu, who oversees more than  $127 billion  of pension funds,
is a Democrat seeking election as mayor this year. He’s pressing
companies the city invests in to reveal more information about
diversity. New York-based AIG declined to disclose the
information last year, while  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and
 MetLife Inc. (MET)  agreed to make the data public.  At the time, AIG was majority-owned by the U.S. after a
rescue that began amid the 2008 financial crisis and swelled to
$182.3 billion. The insurer finished repaying the bailout in
December.  Diversity Commitment  “AIG is committed to a diverse and inclusive work force,”
Jon Diat, an AIG spokesman, said in a statement today. ‘We are
pleased to support the comptroller in his efforts to create more
transparency around this important topic.”  U.S. Bancorp has “long been committed to building and
supporting a diverse workforce” said Tom Joyce, a spokesman for
the Minneapolis-based lender.  BNY Mellon  declined to comment,
according to Kevin Heine, a spokesman for the bank.  New York City pension funds owned 1.86 million shares of
AIG, 2.87 million shares of BNY Mellon, and 4.98 million shares
of  U.S. Bancorp (USB)  as of April 5, according to the statement.  Liu’s office is also pushing advertising firms  Omnicom
Group Inc. (OMC)  and  Interpublic Group of Cos.  to disclose information
about the composition of their workforces with shareholder
proposals, according to the statement. Liu didn’t say when AIG,
BNY Mellon or U.S. Bancorp will release the data.  Goldman Sachs, the fifth-biggest U.S. bank by assets, said
20 percent of its executives and senior officials in the U.S.
were female as of Aug. 31, 2011, according to  figures  on the
firm’s website. That compares with  17 percent  at MetLife,  24
percent  at JPMorgan Chase & Co. and  21 percent  at Citigroup Inc.
JPMorgan and Citigroup, both based in  New York , have made the
data available for years.  JPMorgan, Citigroup and MetLife all reported that a
majority of their U.S. workforce was female, led by JPMorgan,
the country’s largest bank by assets, at 57 percent. The figure
was 36 percent at Goldman Sachs.  The companies are already required to submit the data to
the U.S. government and have the option of making the figures
available to the public.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  