-- Air Pollution Exposure in Pregnancy Linked to Cancers
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2013-04-09T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/air-pollution-exposure-in-pregnancy-linked-to-cancers.html
Children whose mothers have an
increased exposure to air pollution from motor vehicles while
pregnant may have a higher chance of developing certain cancers,
a study found.  Each increase in exposure to pollution from gasoline
vehicles and diesel trucks was associated with a 4 percent
higher risk of developing  acute lymphoblastic leukemia , the most
common childhood cancer, as well as increased chances of
developing rarer cancers of the eye and of cells that form the
reproductive system, according to data presented today at the
annual meeting of the  American Association for Cancer Research 
in  Washington .  Research in adults has shown that  carbon monoxide  can
damage the retina and have an effect on germ cells of the
reproductive system, said Julia Heck, the lead study author.
Today’s findings are the first to link air pollution with rarer
pediatric cancers, she said.  “With childhood cancers, there’s a lot less known about
the causes,”  Heck , an assistant researcher at the University of
California, Los Angeles, School of Public Health, said in an
April 5 telephone interview. “My results have to be confirmed
in other studies. This is the first real study to report on
these rare tumors.”  She said it is unknown why exposure to pollution in utero
can raise childhood cancer risks.  California Registry  Researchers in the study looked at 3,590 children from the
 California Cancer Registry  who were born from 1998 to 2007 and
linked to a  California  birth certificate. The researchers then
looked at 80,224 others who had California birth certificates.
They estimated the amount of local traffic exposure at the
mother’s home during each trimester of pregnancy and the child’s
first year.  They found that each increase of 53 parts per billion of
carbon monoxide pollution raised the risk of a child developing
certain cancers, Heck said. Each increase raised the risk of
developing retinoblastoma, or cancer of the eye, by 14 percent,
and cancer of the germ cells by 17 percent.  The researchers weren’t able to break down at what point
during pregnancy the pollution may increase the risk of cancer
because pollution levels were fairly consistent, Heck said.
Those with the highest exposures lived near highways or heavily
trafficked roads.  About  11,630 U.S. children  younger than 15 will be
diagnosed with cancer this year, according to the American
Cancer Society. The number of cases has increased slightly over
the past few decades.  Leukemia  accounts for about 1 of every 3
cancers in children and the majority of those leukemia diagnoses
are acute lymphoblastic leukemia, which is cancer of the blood
and bone marrow, according to the cancer society.  Cancer of the eye, called  retinoblastoma , affects about 200
to 300 children each year in the U.S. Most of the children have
a tumor in only one eye, the society said on its website.  Germ cell tumors  account for about 3 percent of all
childhood cancers, according to the University of Texas MD
Anderson Cancer Center website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in  New York  at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  