-- Airbus A350 Adds Premium Economy Seats in Coach Upgrade Option
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-04-09T10:29:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/airbus-a350-adds-premium-economy-seats-in-coach-upgrade-option.html
Airbus SAS is adding a second
premium economy-class seat to its A350 long-haul jet, responding
to airlines fine-tuning their cabin layout to accommodate coach
passengers looking for an upgrade on the most basic services.  EADS Sogerma plans an offering based on its Celeste seat,
Airbus said in a statement today. The product broadens the
option from a seat by  Zodiac Aerospace (ZC) , the first provider of a
premium economy-class berth that Airbus has included in the A350
catalog from which airlines can select their interior.  “The gap between business class and economy has been
increasing, so there is an opportunity for an additional cabin
segment,” Zuzana Hrnkova, head of interior marketing for the
Toulouse, France-based aircraft maker, said in an interview.  Airlines have adjusted their cabins to meet changing
passenger demands, with business class getting an upgrade to
seats that fold into fully flat beds and premium economy luring
travelers with perks and comfort that goes beyond the cheapest
tickets. The number of operators with premium economy has almost
doubled in the last three years, Hrnkova said.  The Zodiac seat is 19 inches (48 centimeters) wide and can
allow 8-abreast seating, the seatmaker said. Features include
foot and headrest and individual reading lights. The Zodiac seat
is debuting at the aircraft interiors expo in Hamburg this week,
Hrnkova said.  While premium economy seats are gaining attention,
“innovation is really focused on the business class,” which
can generate as much as 50 percent of revenue while only
accounting for as much as 20 percent of seats, Hrnkova said.  Airbus has sought to limit the cabin offerings on the A350
by tightly controlling the catalog from which airlines can
choose. That’s a lessons learned from the A380 superjumbo, where
carriers were given carte blanche to configure the aircraft,
creating design challenges that led to delays.  If suppliers want specific changes, they must appeal to
Airbus in an effort to balance the need to keep the offering
fresh and limit complexity, Hrnkova said. To simplify changes,
Airbus has defined standard interfaces suppliers need to meet.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  