-- Alberta Leader Vows Steps to Curb Keystone Climate Harms
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2013-04-09T20:55:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/alberta-leader-vows-steps-to-curb-keystone-climate-harms.html
Alberta  is taking steps to limit the
potential environmental damage of building  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s
proposed Keystone XL pipeline, the Canadian province’s premier
said in a bid to win U.S. support for the project.  The government has adopted land-conservation policies, set
limits on greenhouse-gas emissions and monitors industrial
development for harm to the environment, Premier Alison Redford
said today in a  Washington  speech that was occasionally
interrupted by protesters.  Pipeline opponents “proclaim that either you stand against
the oil sands, or you write off the environment, along with any
hope for sustainable existence,” Redford said. “That is
completely wrong.”  Environmental groups including the  Sierra Club  and the
 Natural Resources Defense Council  oppose the almost 2,000 mile
(3,200 kilometer) Keystone pipeline, which would carry crude
from Alberta’s  oil sands  to refineries on the U.S. Gulf Coast.
The U.S. State Department is reviewing the $5.3 billion project
because it would cross an international border.  Alberta taxes carbon emissions and uses the revenue to
invest in clean-energy technologies. Redford declined to comment
on whether the province plans to increase the tax and said the
size of the levy isn’t part of her discussions with U.S.
officials.  Province Targets  “We don’t come to Washington to negotiate on a
transaction, but to talk about what we’ve done,” she told
reporters after her remarks. “Our minister of environment is in
discussions all the time -- with industry, with other
jurisdictions, with the federal government -- on what we can do
to achieve our targets.”  Diana McQueen, Alberta’s minister of environment and water,
said at the event that the government is in the process of
reviewing its strategy in dealing with  climate change .  Critics of the pipeline have said it would cross a major
U.S. aquifer, putting drinking-water supplies in jeopardy in the
event of a leak or spill.  “Redford and Canadian  oil companies  may benefit from the
pipeline, but folks here at home will be the ones taking on all
of the risk, without any reward,” Rachel Wolf, a spokeswoman
for a coalition of pipeline opponents known as “All Risk, No
Reward” said today in a statement.  Dueling Campaigns  A draft  analysis  by the State Department on March 1 found
that Keystone XL wouldn’t pose a significant environmental risk,
though it didn’t recommend a decision on building the project.
President  Barack Obama  has said he will make a decision on an
application from Calgary-based TransCanada for the project by
the end of the year.  Advocates and opponents are waging public-relations
campaigns to sway policymakers on the pipeline. Redford is
scheduled to meet with members of Congress during a two-day
visit to Washington, her fourth in 18 months. Alberta’s
government has hired Rasky Baerlein Strategic Communications
Inc. to lobby for the project, among other energy issues,
according to an April 3 filing with the  Justice Department .  If the project across six states isn’t built, the U.S.
refineries will continue to process oil from Venezuela, instead
of increasing flows from Canada, Redford said at the  Brookings
Institution , where several protesters were escorted from the
room after disrupting her speech.  “The opponents of Keystone are, in effect, tilting the
playing field, ironically, in favor of Venezuela, which would be
the biggest beneficiary in the absence of Keystone,” she said.  Canada provides about 29 percent of U.S. oil imports, while
Venezuela supplies about 11 percent, the U.S. Energy Information
Administration said in a July  analysis .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  