-- Alcoa Profit Beats Analysts’ Estimates on Aircraft Demand
-- B y   S o n j a   E l m q u i s t
-- 2013-04-09T20:11:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/alcoa-profit-beats-analysts-estimates-on-aircraft-demand.html
Alcoa Inc. (AA) , the largest U.S.
aluminum producer, reported first-quarter earnings that exceeded
analysts’ estimates as demand from airplane and car
manufacturers increased.  Net income rose to $149 million, or 13 cents a share, from
$94 million, or 9 cents, a year earlier, the New York-based
company said yesterday in a statement. Earnings excluding an
income-tax benefit and other one-time items were 11 cents a
share, beating the 8-cent average of 18  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg.  Alcoa, traditionally the first company in the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  to report earnings, has been shifting its
focus from the production of the lightweight metal to making
valued-added aluminum parts for industry. Profit in the
engineered products and solutions  unit , which supplies the
aerospace and automotive industries, rose 10 percent, Alcoa said
in the statement.  “There was clear improvement in engineered products,”
Lloyd O’Carroll, an analyst at Davenport & Co. in Richmond,
 Virginia , said yesterday by phone. “The aerospace market is
strong.”  Alcoa was unchanged at $8.39 at the close in  New York . The
shares have declined 3.3 percent this year.  Vehicle Sales  Airbus SAS and  Boeing Co. (BA)  are working to meet aircraft
orders as U.S. airlines replace the world’s oldest fleets.
Airbus yesterday broke ground on a new plant in Mobile,  Alabama ,
which will build the A320neo single-aisle jet.  U.S. light-vehicle sales in March climbed 3.4 percent to
1.45 million, the best month for the industry since August 2007,
according to researcher Autodata Corp. Automakers sold 3.69
million cars and light trucks in the U.S. this year through
March, the most in any quarter since the last three months of
2007.  The  auto industry  is on track to consume 4 percent more
aluminum this year as the average North American car adds 14
pounds of the metal in 2013 compared with last year, according
to research by O’Carroll.  Alcoa’s revenue fell 2.9 percent to $5.83 billion, missing
the $5.88 billion average of 11 estimates. The company cited
lower metal prices and the impact of smelter curtailments in
Spain and  Italy  for the decline in sales.  Low Prices  Aluminum for immediate delivery on the London Metal
Exchange fell 9.2 percent this year to close at $1,853 a metric
ton yesterday. The average LME price fell 8.2 percent from a
year earlier to $2,002 a metric ton in the quarter.  “The aluminum price is basically the issue,” David Gagliano, a New York-based analyst at Barclays Plc, said
yesterday in a telephone interview. “Downstream was really
strong, but it’s being offset by the low metal prices
recently.”  Alcoa reiterated its forecast that global aluminum demand
will increase 7 percent this year.  The company estimates surplus production will fall to
155,000 tons in 2013 from an earlier projection of 535,000 tons
as Chinese smelters cut output, Chief Financial Officer William Oplinger said yesterday on a conference call to discuss results.  Alcoa is seen to be losing its accuracy as a bellwether for
the U.S. stock market.  Alcoa’s Results  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has usually followed
Alcoa’s lead since 2002, rising 2.5 percent in quarters when the
aluminum producer beat the market after  earnings , less when it
didn’t. That relationship has broken down since 2011, when the
 S&P 500  posted even bigger gains, about 3 percent, when Alcoa’s
results hurt its stock, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Overtaken in size and market clout by diversified
commodities companies such as  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and  Glencore
International Plc (GLEN) , Alcoa has struggled to make a profit with
aluminum prices sagging as production outpaces the metal’s use.
Investors are looking beyond the producer to companies such as
International Business Machines Corp., according to Bespoke
Investment Group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonja Elmquist in New York at 
 selmquist1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Frank at 
 sfrank9@bloomberg.net  