-- Hansen Gets Extension to Coach All Blacks Through 2015 World Cup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-04-10T00:42:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/all-blacks-coach-hansen-gets-contract-extension-through-2015.html
Steve Hansen  was given a contract
extension as head coach of the All Blacks through the team’s
defense of its  Rugby World Cup  title in 2015.  The reappointment of Hansen, who was hired on a two-year
deal in December 2011 after serving as an assistant to World
Cup-winning head coach  Graham Henry , was unanimously endorsed at
a recent board meeting, New Zealand Rugby Chief Executive
Officer Steve Tew said today in an e-mailed statement.  Hansen’s first season in charge produced 12 wins, a draw
and a loss as the All Blacks swept the southern hemisphere’s
Rugby Championship and retained the Bledisloe Cup and No. 1
ranking. The team extended its unbeaten streak to 20 Tests
before an upset loss against England in  London .  “He had an outstanding first year as head coach and his
coaching and leadership helped the team build on its exceptional
legacy,” Tew said. “Having the All Blacks go back-to-back at
Rugby World Cup is one of the key goals for our organization
over the next three years and we look forward to working with
Steve and the rest of the All Blacks team to help them achieve
that goal.”  The next edition of rugby’s four-yearly world championship
will take place in  England , where the All Blacks will play
 Argentina , Tonga and two yet-to-be-determined qualifiers in the
group stage. New Zealand’s previous two Webb Ellis Cup victories
came when it hosted the tournament.  Hansen said while he was very happy with last year’s
results, the All Blacks need to grow their leadership experience
to ensure the team has “more players who can make good
decisions in the big moments.”  “We also need to get our timing right when it comes to
introducing more new faces into the team,” Hansen added.
“Clearly it will make the next few years tougher than last year,
but that’s something we are looking forward to.”  In other appointments, All Blacks Manager Darren Shand
extended his contract through the 2015  World Cup , while Tony
Page was hired as the team’s doctor to replace Deb Robinson, who
stepped down after six years in the job.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  