-- American Eagle Pilot Faces Attempted-Drunk-Flying Charges
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-04-09T23:55:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/american-eagle-pilot-faces-attempted-drunk-flying-charges.html
An American Eagle pilot who police
said showed up for a flight out of a  Minnesota  airport smelling
of alcohol was charged with attempting to operate a plane while
under the influence.  The pilot, Kolbjorn Jarle Kristiansen, 48, of Raleigh,
 North Carolina , was charged today in a complaint filed at the
Hennepin County court in  Minneapolis . He was arrested Jan. 4 on
a jetway at Minneapolis-St. Paul International Airport after
exiting the cockpit of a plane scheduled to leave for New York,
according to a police detective’s statement filed with the
complaint.  Airport police had followed him and three other pilots
after one officer smelled alcohol as he exited an elevator and
the pilots were entering it. Kristiansen admitted that he
intended to fly the plane, the detective said.  “There will be an issue as to whether he made any attempt
to fly an aircraft,” Kristiansen’s lawyer, Peter Wold, said
today in a phone interview. No court appearance has been
scheduled, Wold said.  American Eagle is a regional carrier of  Fort Worth , Texas-
based  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) , which also operates  American Airlines .  “The pilot involved in this matter continues to be
withheld from service,”  Matt Miller , an airline spokesman, said
in a statement. “American Eagle has a well-established
substance abuse policy that is designed to put the safety of our
customers and employees first.”  Twice Limit  Kristiansen had a blood-alcohol level of 0.09, or more than
twice the limit allowed for commercial pilots under Minnesota
law, according to Patrick Hogan, a spokesman for the state’s
Metropolitan Airports Commission.  Kristiansen is charged with three counts relating to
attempting to operate an aircraft with an alcohol content of
0.04 or more, each punishable by as long as one year in jail
and/or a $3,000 fine.  His arrest came less than a year after a JetBlue Airways
pilot’s erratic behavior during a  New York  to Las Vegas flight
caused his co-pilot to bar him from the cockpit and have him
restrained. The pilot, Clayton Osbon, was released in November
after having been found not guilty by reason of insanity of
interfering with his flight crew.  The case is State of Minnesota v. Kristiansen, Hennepin
County District Court, 4th Judicial District (Minneapolis).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at
   aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  