-- APA Expects Final Bids for Australia Gas Pipeline in Next Week
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2013-04-09T23:03:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/apa-expects-final-bids-for-australia-gas-pipeline-in-next-week.html
APA Group (APA) , whose pipelines deliver
more than half of  Australia ’s natural gas, expects to receive
final bids shortly for a pipeline that may fetch about A$400
million ($420 million).  APA, which agreed to sell the Moomba to  Adelaide  Pipeline
System to get regulatory approval for its takeover last year of
Hastings Diversified Utilities Fund, trimmed the list of bidders
to a “small handful” of companies and expects binding offers
“in the next week or so,” Managing Director Mick McCormack
said in an interview in Sydney.  “We’re comfortable with the numbers we’ve been shown,”
McCormack said yesterday, declining to name any of the
companies. “It could be an entry point into Australia for an
overseas player. It could be a  fund manager  who wants to invest
directly in those sort of assets.”  APA, with a gas pipeline network spanning more than 14,000
kilometers (8,700 miles), plans to focus on expansion of
existing assets, investing about A$300 million a year, after
acquiring Hastings Diversified. The company may receive about
A$400 million for the 1,185 kilometer pipeline system stretching
from the  Cooper Basin  in central Australia to Adelaide, the
South Australia state capital, CIMB said in a March 26 report.  “We don’t need to buy anything,” McCormack said. “The
company is in a position with its balance sheet that if an
opportunity does come up, we’ve got the capacity to look at it.
Any opportunity has got to add value.”  LNG Infrastructure  The Sydney-based company is interested in buying
infrastructure assets tied to about $65 billion of liquefied
natural gas projects on Queensland state’s  Curtis Island  if the
developers of those plants decide to sell, McCormack said.  BG, the U.K.’s third-largest oil and gas producer, is
working with Goldman Sachs Group Inc. as it considers selling
pipelines and other infrastructure at its LNG venture, two
people with knowledge of the matter said in February.  Origin Energy Ltd. (ORG) , developing a neighboring project with
 ConocoPhillips (COP) , also may sell infrastructure assets, including
pipelines, its Managing Director Grant King said in February.
 Santos Ltd. (STO) , led by Chief Executive Officer David Knox, said in
February that it didn’t plan to sell infrastructure assets
connected to its Gladstone LNG venture.  Brisbane-based spokesmen for BG’s business in Australia
didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail. Origin’s Sydney-based
spokeswoman Anneliis Allen declined to comment, referring to
King’s comments in February.  “We’re experts in operating pipelines,” McCormack said.
“So whether it’s Grant King or David Knox or BG, they will want
the certainty that they are going to get the gas delivered to
Curtis Island and that’s where APA’s skills come in.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  