-- Ashton Urges Serbia to Make Final Bid at Kosovo Accord
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2013-04-09T07:27:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/ashton-urges-serbia-to-make-final-bid-at-kosovo-accord.html
The European Union urged Serbia to
make a final attempt at a political settlement with Kosovo as a
deadline looms for an agreement that would allow the former
Yugoslav republic to open EU membership talks.  EU Foreign Policy Chief  Catherine Ashton  said Serbian Prime
Minister  Ivica Dacic , who’s met with Kosovar Premier Hashim Thaci eight times in six months with no result, needs to
continue the talks because it’s in his citizens’ best interest
to forge a deal that would start official negotiations in June.
The EU is preparing a report on the Balkan country’s readiness,
which includes reaching a solution with Kosovo, for April 16.  “This needs to be an agreement between the two sides, it
is not for the European Union to impose it,” Ashton said in an
e-mailed statement. “I regret the decision of the Serbian
government to reject the proposals and call on them to make a
last effort to reach an agreement for the benefit of their
people.”  Dacic’s nine-month old Cabinet, dominated by his Socialist
Party and former nationalists of the Serbian Progressive Part,
rejected a pact with Kosovo over the weekend after insisting
that a special police force and court system for Kosovar Serbs
be set up.  Serbia  wants to “urgently continue dialogue” with
Kosovo under EU mediation, Dacic said in Belgrade yesterday.  Serbia and Kosovo have been at loggerheads since the wars
of the 1990s that led to the breakup of  Yugoslavia . Kosovo is
recognized by the U.S. and 22 of the EU’s 27 members.  Kosovo Integration  While Serbia seeks a start date for entry talks, Kosovo is
in line to sign a Stabilization and Association Agreement, the
first formal step toward membership in the bloc. Both need
deeper EU ties after the wars stunted the region’s transition
from communism.  “I hope that Kosovo and Serbia will not miss the
opportunity to put the past behind them and move forward into
the future,” Ashton said. “I hope I will be leading the
discussion in the EU over the next few days in support of a real
step forward by both Serbia and Kosovo towards their European
future.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  