-- Asian Stocks Rise as Commodity Firms Gain
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2013-04-09T10:37:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/asia-stocks-rise-as-bank-of-japan-boosts-nikkei-225-index.html
Asian  stocks  gained, led by
commodity producers, as slower-than-estimated growth in  China ’s
inflation damped concern that the nation’s central bank will
need to tighten monetary policy.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the biggest mining company, posted the
longest streak of gains in two months as metal prices rose.
Alumina Ltd. gained 5 percent in Sydney after its joint-venture
partner  Alcoa Inc. (AA)  reported first-quarter earnings that exceeded
analysts’ estimates.  Sundance Resources Ltd. (SDL)  tumbled 48 percent
after terminating an agreement with Sichuan Hanlong Group
following the Chinese company’s failure to secure funding for
its A$1.14 billion ($1.18 billion) bid to buy the rest of the
Australian iron-ore miner.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  gained 0.6 percent to 134.77 as
of 7:33 p.m. in  Tokyo , rising for a second day. About three
stocks advanced for each two that fell on the gauge.  Japan ’s
Nikkei 225 Stock Average closed little changed at a 4 1/2 year
high. Japanese shares have led five months of advances on the
regional Asian benchmark on speculation the nation would unleash
more stimulus and amid signs the  U.S. economy  is recovering.  “Risk appetite is still there for equities,”  Binay Chandgothia , Hong Kong-based fund manager at Principal Global
Investors, which oversees more than $280 billion, said in a
telephone interview. “On an incremental basis, it’s safe to put
money into Japan as a lot of people haven’t yet got on to the
bandwagon. I’m not too worried about China -- they won’t tighten
policy meaningfully.”  Chinese Stocks  Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index rose 0.7 percent. China’s
Shanghai Composite Index added 0.6 percent, the first advance in
five days, as inflation in the world’s second-largest economy
eased more than forecast from a 10-month high. The  Hang Seng
China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of mainland Chinese firms listed in Hong
Kong gained 1.7 percent, the most since March 20.  China’s consumer price index rose 2.1 percent in March from
a year earlier, the National Bureau of Statistics said today in
Beijing. That compares with the 2.5 percent median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey of 38 economists and a 3.2 percent gain in
February when spending for the Lunar New Year holiday pushed up
prices.  The  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  has added almost 10 percent
since its the close on April 2, before the BOJ started a two-day
meeting that resulted in additional stimulus. Australia’s
S&P/ASX 200 Index gained 1.5 percent and Singapore’s Straits
Times Index rose 0.6 percent. Taiwan’s Taiex Index slid 0.3
percent and New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index slipped 0.1 percent.  Miners Rise  BHP Billiton  rose 1.4 percent to A$33.11 in Sydney, a third
day of gains.  Rio Tinto Group (RIO) , the world’s second-largest miner,
advanced 3.5 percent to A$56.73. Komatsu Ltd., the world’s
second-biggest construction equipment maker, added 2.4 percent
to 2,351 yen in Tokyo. Jiangxi Copper Co., China’s largest
producer of the metal, advanced 2.1 percent to HK$16.64 in  Hong
Kong . Copper climbed 0.8 percent, gaining for a second day.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.1
percent. The measure gained 0.6 percent yesterday as investors
speculated first-quarter earnings for U.S. companies would help
equities rebound from their biggest weekly decline of the year.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index traded at 13.6 times average
estimated earnings yesterday compared with 14.1 for the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index and 12.3 times for the Stoxx Europe 600
Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  North Korea  Rising military tensions with  North Korea  have driven the
cost of protecting against swings in a security tracking South
Korean stocks to the highest level on record compared with
emerging-market equities. Implied volatility, the key gauge of
option prices, for contracts closest to the iShares MSCI South
Korea Capped Index Fund  jumped  26 percent this month to 23.3,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s a record 41
percent more than the measure for the iShares MSCI  Emerging
Markets  Index.  South Korea’s  Kospi index  added 0.1 percent. Gains were
limited by companies that do business in North Korea after the
communist nation said it will suspend operations at a jointly
run industrial complex. Shinwon Corp. fell 2 percent to 1,260
won.  Sundance fell a record 48 percent to 11 Australian cents.
Hanlong’s botched bid for Sundance brings the value of China’s
recent failed mining deals to $45 billion, a record that’s
prompted stricter Chinese scrutiny of acquisitions.  Japan’s Nuclear Regulation Authority said there may be a
leak at the No. 1 underground storage tank at Tokyo Electric
Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant. Shares of Tepco,
as the firm is known, lost 4.4 percent to 285 yen.  Alumina gained 5 percent to A$1.055 as an increase in
demand from airplane and car manufacturers at Alcoa boosted
first-quarter earnings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  