-- Asia Requires Energy Overhaul to Sustain World’s Fastest Growth
-- B y   M i k e   A n d e r s o n
-- 2013-04-09T01:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/asia-requires-energy-overhaul-to-sustain-world-s-fastest-growth.html
Asia  will fail to sustain its
economic rebound or protect its environment without changing the
way it produces and consumes energy, according to the Asia
Development Bank.  The continent’s gross domestic product is forecast to
increase at the fastest pace globally, growing 6.6 percent this
year and 6.7 percent in 2014, up from 6.1% in 2012, the bank
said today in its annual outlook. Growth at that pace means Asia
may account for 44 percent of global GDP by 2035 and consume
more than 51 percent of its energy, up from one third in 2010,
the bank said.  “Developing Asia must actively contain its rising demand,
aggressively explore new supply sources and technology, and
progressively integrate regional energy markets and
infrastructure,” according to the bank’s recommendations.  Without reducing its reliance on fossil fuels, Asia will
foul local air and water and emit 20 billion metric tons of
greenhouses gases by 2035, almost the entire global target for
sustainable emissions, the bank said. Asia needs to scale back
subsidies that artificially reduce the price of energy and
disproportionately help richer citizens, the bank said.  The region has potential to use more  renewable energy , the
bank said. Wind-generating capacity has risen to 82 gigawatts
and solar capacity has jumped to 20 gigawatts, according to the
report.  “Wind and solar are becoming cheaper and are expected to
reach grid parity in some countries in a few years,” the bank
said.  Renewable Energy  Even after generating more energy from renewable and
nuclear sources, oil imports would have to rise from the current
11 million barrels a day to more than 30 million barrels per day
by 2035, making Asia more vulnerable to external energy shocks,
according to the bank.  “Asia’s growing thirst for oil imports makes the region
more vulnerable to shocks from geopolitical tensions that may
affect the production of this key commodity,” the ADB said in
its report.  Asia’s reserves of shale gas have the potential to offset
coal use, it said, estimating that  China  may have as much as 20
percent of global reserves of shale gas. Additionally, the
region should aspire to connect its energy market by 2030.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mike Anderson  in Singapore at 
 manderson34@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  