-- MasterCard Faces EU Antitrust Probe Into Payment-Card Fees
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2013-04-09T13:42:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/mastercard-faces-european-antitrust-probe-into-payment-card-fees.html
MasterCard Inc. (MA)  faces a European
Union antitrust probe into bank fees on foreign card payments
such as when tourists go shopping in the 27-nation bloc.  The European Commission  said  the levies -- and other
possible practices including higher fees for traders accepting
so-called premium cards aimed at affluent customers -- may be
anti-competitive, slowing down cross-border business and harming
customers through higher prices.  “They are restrictive rules that need to be removed,”
said Ruth Milligan, senior adviser on payments at EuroCommerce,
a group representing EU retailers including  Carrefour SA (CA)  and
Ikea Group, the world’s biggest home-furnishings seller. “They
are things we’ve been campaigning about for a long time.”  The probe increases the pressure on the Purchase,  New York- 
based company over card charges in  Europe . The company faces
about a dozen lawsuits in the U.K. over cross-border fees and a
previous EU decision in 2007 found that MasterCard unfairly
inflated the transaction fees paid by retailers for processing
payments. The EU regulator said it will also examine MasterCard
rules applying to merchants’ transactions that stop them
benefiting from better conditions by banks elsewhere in the
bloc.  ‘Fair Share’  “MasterCard intends to fully cooperate with the
commission,” it said in an e-mailed statement. “As a global
electronic payments company MasterCard always aims to balance
the interests of both consumers and retailers to ensure that
each party pays its fair share of the costs for the benefits it
receives.”  The EU regulator said part of its probe is examining
MasterCard’s so-called “honor all cards” rule, which obliges a
merchant to accept all types of cards from the company,
including premium products bundled with add-ons such as
insurance and travel services.  Banks, especially in the U.K., “are simply issuing people
with new premium cards that carry a higher interchange fee,”
said Milligan.  The commission plans to propose rules to create more
certainty across the EU on interchange fees “in the coming
months,”  Chantal Hughes , a spokeswoman for  Michel Barnier , the
EU’s financial-services chief, said in an e-mail.  The  proposal  seeks to tackle “multi-lateral interchange
fees between banks hindering cross-border competition” and
“rules imposed by card schemes that limit the capability of
merchants not to accept premium cards associated with higher
costs,” the commission said on its website.  Visa Probe  Visa Europe  Ltd., operator of the EU’s largest payment-card
network, is also being investigated and was sent an antitrust
complaint over its cross-border credit-card payment fees by the
commission last year. An earlier probe into Visa Europe’s fees
for debit-card payments made outside a user’s home country was
settled in 2011. The company split from  Visa Inc. (V)  before the
U.S. card company’s initial public offering in early 2008.  While MasterCard agreed to fee changes in 2009 in a
settlement with the Brussels-based EU regulator to avoid a daily
penalty of as much as 3.5 percent of sales, it appealed the
antitrust decision. The EU General Court last year backed the
commission’s decision.  MasterCard, the second-biggest card network, supported by
banks including  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and  Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc , had argued that its fees are “necessary for the
viability of its global debit- and credit-card scheme.” It has
a final appeal in that case pending at the EU’s highest court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  