-- Thatcher’s Body Moved From Ritz Hotel as Funeral Plans Begin
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-04-09T08:46:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/thatcher-s-body-moved-from-ritz-hotel-as-funeral-plans-begin.html
The body of former Prime Minister
 Margaret Thatcher  was moved from the Ritz Hotel in central
 London  in the early hours of today and taken to an undisclosed
location as preparations for her funeral next week began.  The luxury hotel, where Thatcher had been convalescing
since coming out of hospital in December, boarded up the 
railings surrounding it for privacy. The former premier will 
receive a ceremonial funeral at  St. Paul’s Cathedral  with full 
military honors -- the same status as accorded to the Queen Mother in 2002 in recognition of her influence on the nation.  Both Houses of Parliament have been recalled from their
Easter vacation tomorrow to pay tribute to Thatcher, who died
following a stroke yesterday at age 87. Lawmakers from her
 Conservative Party  praised her strength of character and
economic reforms. Political opponents questioned policies that
that led to the decline of traditional industries such as mining
and drove unemployment to a postwar high of 3.3 million in the
mid-1980s.  “I’m saddened obviously by the death but I’m almost amused
by the way she still polarizes debate,” Ken Clarke, currently
minister without portfolio who served in Thatcher’s government,
told BBC Radio 4’s “Today” program. “The right and the left
have created myths about her government. They’re fighting them
out even over her memory.”  A crowd of 300 people assembled in Glasgow’s George Square,
where in 1989 protests against the so-called poll tax, a local-
authority levy on every resident, took place, the Press
Association reported. Some wore party hats and launched
streamers into the air while a bottle of champagne was opened
with a toast to Thatcher’s death.  Glasgow Chants  Anti-capitalist campaigners shouted from loudspeakers,
“Maggie, Maggie, Maggie” as the crowd replied “dead, dead,
dead.” It was an echo of chants from the 1980s in which
protestors would call “Maggie, Maggie, Maggie. Out, out, out.”  More than 100 people gathered in Brixton, south London,
the scene of 1981 riots against her government’s policies. Some
scaled the nearby Ritzy Cinema to rearrange the lettering
advertising films to read “Margaret Thatchers dead,” the Press
Association said.  Thatcher, who was prime minister from 1979 to 1990, will be
cremated in a private ceremony after a ceremonial funeral, Prime
Minister David Cameron’s office said yesterday. The date has yet
to be named. State funerals are generally reserved for monarchs,
though they differ little. In a ceremonial funeral, the carriage
bearing the coffin is drawn by horses, rather than sailors from
the Royal Navy.  Funeral Plans  The last non-royal to receive a state funeral was  Winston Churchill , in recognition of his leadership as Britain’s prime
minister during World War II. Others who have been given the
honor include Admiral Horatio Nelson, who died during the Royal
Navy’s victory over the French and Spanish fleets in 1805, and
19th-century prime ministers including William Gladstone.  Thatcher’s coffin will initially be taken to the  Chapel of
St. Mary Undercroft,  a private church used by lawmakers in the
11th-century  Westminster Hall , the oldest part of Parliament.
The Queen Mother’s coffin lay in state in the hall itself for
the public to file past. The former prime minister’s remains
will later be taken to the Royal Air Force chapel of  St. Clement
Danes  on the Strand, just outside the  City of London  financial
district.  On the day of the funeral, her coffin will travel in 
procession to St. Paul’s, within the City, less than a mile away, 
in a carriage drawn by the  King’s Troop Royal Horse Artillery . 
The route will be lined from military representatives. On the 
steps of St. Paul’s, Thatcher will receive a guard of honor from 
service personnel and retired military from the  Royal Hospital 
Chelsea , known as the Chelsea Pensioners.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  