-- Augusta National Stays Mum on When IBM’s Female CEO Can Join
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2013-04-09T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/augusta-national-stays-mum-on-when-ibm-s-female-ceo-can-join.html
International Business Machines
Corp. (IBM)  will sponsor Augusta National Golf Club’s Masters
tournament for the 12th straight year later this week, even as
Chief Executive Officer Ginni Rometty waits for a public
invitation to join the formerly all-male organization.  Augusta National has historically invited IBM’s CEOs to
join its ranks, though not necessarily when they first take the
job. Rometty, who became the company’s first female chief in
2012, found herself at the center of a controversy last year
over the club’s exclusion of women. Under pressure to change its
rules, the club invited two women to join after the last
tournament was held. Rometty, 55, wasn’t among them.  Rometty, whose company has sponsored the Masters since
2002, will probably receive an invite eventually, said Hayes Roth, chief marketing officer for Landor Associates, a global
branding and design firm. Still, Augusta National may not be in
a hurry to give her a green jacket -- the symbol of membership
in the 80-year-old club.  “You can’t say it’s an equal-rights issue anymore because
they admitted a couple women,” Roth said. “Now it’s Augusta
playing by its own arcane rules, as always, and they have
nothing to gain by playing into the controversy.”  Augusta National’s members include  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) 
CEO  Warren Buffett  and Microsoft Corp. co-founder  Bill Gates .
Controversy over the club’s all-male membership flared last
March when  Bloomberg News  reported that Rometty’s ascension to
the CEO job would create a conundrum for the organization: It
would have to either stop offering membership to IBM CEOs or
break its prohibition on women in general.  Condoleezza Rice  Augusta National defused the debate last August when it
added former Secretary of State  Condoleezza Rice  and
philanthropist Darla Moore as its first female members. The club
sends out invitations in the summer, suggesting that no new
members have been added since then. Steve Ethun, a Masters
Tournament spokesman, declined to comment on Rometty’s status.  As a sponsor, IBM is featured in the Masters’ television
commercials and runs the tournament’s website, mobile-phone
applications and media-center technology.  Ed Barbini , a
spokesman for Armonk, New York-based IBM, said the company
doesn’t comment on private club memberships.  IBM has said Rometty plays golf, though not frequently.
Since January, she has posted scores for eight rounds of golf,
including four rounds in April, according to the U.S. Golf
Association’s  handicap-tracking website . Her scores range from
105 to 135. She has a 36.3 handicap index, which measures how
far above par she is on average.  Rometty joked about her golf handicap during a speech last
month at the  Council on Foreign Relations .  “I don’t know that it’s allowed to go higher,” she said.  When asked if her golf skills had improved since she became
CEO, she replied that she’s been busy running the company.  “I am working, working, working all the time,” Rometty
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in  New York  at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  