-- Australia to Stop Mortgage-Bond Aid as Market Revives, Swan Says
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   P u r v i s   a n d   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2013-04-09T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/australia-to-stop-mortgage-bond-aid-as-market-revives-swan-says.html
Australia  will stop buying mortgage
bonds as a revival in the market means the government’s support
is no longer needed, according to Treasurer  Wayne Swan .  Yield premiums on residential mortgage-backed securities
have recovered since the credit freeze in 2008 prompted the
creation of an RMBS aid program, Swan said in the text of a
speech to be delivered tomorrow at the Bloomberg Australia
Economic Summit in Sydney. While it doesn’t plan new purchases,
the government won’t sell the  securities it owns  in the near
future, he said.  “The Treasury has advised me that it’s now time to stop
making new investments,” Swan said. “Investors have a renewed
sense of confidence and appetite for the asset class. Pricing is
now significantly better than for most of the last five years.”  Offerings of housing-backed notes are booming amid a global
credit rally, with  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA)  and  Westpac
Banking Corp. (WBC)  leading issuers in pricing A$8.21 billion ($8.55
billion) of RMBS last quarter, the most since the three months
ending June 2011. Australian  home prices  are rising as the
economy responds to 1.75 percentage points of  interest rate cuts 
in the 14 months through December.  The Australian Office of Financial Management, which
administers the RMBS program, has spent A$15.5 billion of its
A$20 billion budget, according to information on its website.
The program aimed to spur competition in the nation’s home-loan
market by helping smaller lenders fund themselves.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Benjamin Purvis in Sydney at 
 bpurvis@bloomberg.net ;
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  