-- Australia’s Opposition Promises A$30 Billion Broadband Network
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t   a n d   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2013-04-09T02:40:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/australia-s-opposition-promises-a-30-billion-broadband-network.html
Australia ’s Liberal-National
coalition plans to build a national broadband network for A$30
billion ($31 billion) and connect all households to high-speed
internet by 2016 if it wins government in elections Sept. 14.  The plan would ensure minimum download speeds of at least
25 megabits per second by the end of a first term in 2016 and
would double that by 2019, opposition leader  Tony Abbott  told an
event in Sydney today. The coalition says its plan would cost
less than a third of the A$94 billion it estimates will be spent
under the government’s policy. The government forecasts its plan
will need funding of A$44 billion, the coalition said.  NBN Co., the state-owned operator of the network, said in
August it can change the project should Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s Labor government lose power. The coalition, on track
to win elections, said Telstra Corp., the country’s largest
phone company, will receive compensation for use of its copper
networks more quickly under its plan.  The government’s program “is a failing project,”
opposition communications spokesman  Malcolm Turnbull  said. “It
is also one that is going to cost a huge amount of money.”  Labor intends to roll out the mainly fiber-optic network to
93 percent of Australia’s population during the next decade,
with the rest served by wireless and satellite.  While the government’s plan is for broadband fiber to be
connected to every home, the coalition wants to install a fiber-
to-the-node model, in which broadband fiber is installed as much
as a kilometer from houses that are then connected to the
network by copper wire.  Cheaper Plan  Households would pay A$66 a month in 2021 under the
coalition’s plan compared to A$90 a month under the government’s
program, according to a presentation released by the opposition.  Under the coalition’s plan, the government would look to
renegotiate some of its commitments with  Telstra (TLS)  so the network
can be more quickly deployed, the presentation said.  Telstra expects to receive about A$11 billion in payments
and benefits in return for allowing NBN Co. to use its copper
wires network, with the bulk of the money expected to flow after
2022.  “We understand and respect the need for Telstra
shareholders to be kept whole in the sense that Telstra won’t do
any deal if they’re going to be worse off,” Turnbull said.
“It’s somewhere between a neutral and a mild positive and
certainly Telstra shareholders have got nothing to fear from our
approach.”  A Liberal-National government would also privatize  NBN Co. ,
Turnbull said in August, while ruling out a sale to a retail
telecommunications provider, such as Telstra.  A 512-megabyte movie would take around four minutes to
download at 20 megabits per second and two minutes at 50
megabits per second, according to  Thinkbroadband.com.   To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net  