-- Gillard Announces Annual China-Australia Talks in Boost to Ties
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-04-09T12:00:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/australia-s-gillard-seeks-more-defense-cooperation-with-china.html
Australian and Chinese leaders will
hold annual talks in an effort to boost ties, Prime Minister
Julia Gillard said, as she called for stepped up defense
cooperation including three-way military exercises with the U.S.  The decision for an annual meeting between the two
countries’ prime ministers was “a breakthrough in our
relationship,” Gillard said at a briefing after she met Premier
Li Keqiang today. In a speech earlier in the day, she said the
two countries started naval drills almost three years ago and
the region will benefit from closer engagement.  Gillard underscored her nation’s alliance with the U.S.
while seeking to build the relationship with  China . The ruling
Communist Party has aired concern over a U.S. decision to shift
its strategic focus toward Asia, including stationing Marines in
northern  Australia , as President  Barack Obama  conducts a
military “pivot” away from the Middle East.  “I am committed to a relationship which goes well beyond
the economy,” Gillard said in a speech at the Australia China
Economic & Trade Forum before meeting Li. “Defense cooperation,
which is already far broader and more effective than I think is
generally understood, will grow.”  In September, then-U.S. Defense Secretary Leon Panetta
invited China to send a ship to the Rimpac naval exercise, which
is held every two years off the coast of  Hawaii , in 2014.  Increased Presence  Obama is promoting an increased presence in the Asia-
Pacific area as an opportunity to boost cooperation in the
region, where China’s military power is expanding. Australia’s
northern port of Darwin began hosting Marines a year ago.  Gillard said yesterday that China will start direct trading
between the  yuan  and Australia’s dollar tomorrow. She said talks
on a free-trade agreement would take place in May.  “Around the world countries are competing for China’s
attention,” Gillard said at the briefing. “We will command
attention here in China.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  