-- Australia to Cease Mortgage-Bond Buys After Market Revival
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   P u r v i s   a n d   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2013-04-10T06:57:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/australia-to-cease-mortgage-bond-purchases-after-market-revival.html
Australia  will stop buying mortgage
bonds as a revival in the market means the government’s support
is no longer needed, according to Treasurer  Wayne Swan .  The cost of issuing residential mortgage-backed securities
has recovered since the credit freeze in 2008 that prompted the
creation of the government’s RMBS program, Swan said in a speech
today at the  Bloomberg Australia Economic Summit  in Sydney.
Although it doesn’t plan new purchases, the government won’t
sell the securities it owns in the near future, he said.  “We always said the program would have a finite life,”
Swan said when answering questions after the speech. “What we
want to see is a healthy, competitive, securely operating
market. That’s what we’ve got.”  Offerings of housing-backed notes are booming amid a global
credit rally, with  Commonwealth Bank of Australia  and  Westpac (WBC) 
Banking Corp. leading issuers in pricing A$8.21 billion ($8.63
billion) of RMBS last quarter, the most since the three months
ending June 2011. Australian  home prices  are rising as the
economy responds to 1.75 percentage points of interest rate cuts
in the 14 months through December.  Renewed Confidence  “Investors have a renewed sense of confidence and appetite
for the asset class,” Swan said in his speech. “Pricing is now
significantly better than for most of the last five years.”  The  Australian Office of Financial Management , which
administers the RMBS program, has spent A$15.5 billion of its
A$20 billion budget, according to information on its website.
The program aimed to spur competition in the nation’s home loan
market by helping smaller lenders fund themselves.  Swan said the government has no plans to use the remaining
funds left in the RMBS program. The Treasurer has been forced to
back away from a pledge to return the budget to surplus this
fiscal year as tax revenues plunged.  Investors outside Australia and  New Zealand  took 30 percent
of Commonwealth Bank’s A$2.54 billion offering in February, a
person familiar with the matter said at the time. Australia’s
largest lender priced the top portion of the deal at 80 basis
points more than swaps, the narrowest spread since 2007 on notes
with a similar weighted average life, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  Bendigo & Adelaide Bank Ltd. (BEN) , ING Bank Australia Ltd. and
Resimac Ltd. are among the other issuers who have sold mortgage-
bonds in Australia this year, Bloomberg data show.  Smaller Borrowers  Smaller banks will likely benefit from improving RMBS sales
as they have less access to bond markets than the major banks,
the central bank said in its semi-annual financial stability
review on March 27.  While the Australian government’s funding arm has stood
ready to help, it hasn’t bought RMBS since Suncorp-Metway Ltd.
sold A$17.5 million of notes to the agency at the end of August,
according to the AOFM’s website. The government has since
pledged support for four transactions, but demand from investors
removed the need for the sovereign’s assistance.  “The fact that they hadn’t participated since August and
they’d sold a few deals was adding confusion,” said  David Goodman , Westpac’s head of global capital markets strategy
worldwide. “This announcement clears it up. They’ve got a big
portfolio, they think the market’s standing on its own feet and
they’re not going to be selling that portfolio any time soon and
undermining the recovery.”  Ready to Respond  The AOFM has helped 67 different deals, according to Swan.  “We’ll continue to monitor the market and we’re ready to
respond if market conditions were to take a dramatic turn for
the worse,” he said in the speech.  Swan’s bid to promote the government’s economic credentials
is being damaged by lower prices for Australia’s resources and a
strong local currency that’s curbing tax receipts. That prompted
him in December to abandon a pledge to return to a surplus in
the May 14 budget.  Swan, who has been Treasurer since the Labor government was
elected in 2007, also said in his speech that Australia is
continuing efforts for changes to the global financial system to
avoid a potential repeat of the subprime crisis and its knock-on
effects.  “It’s appropriate that after a global financial crisis, we
find global solutions to the problems that caused it,” Swan
said. “That’s why we’re working through the G-20, the Basel
Committee and the Financial Security Board -- with other like-
minded nations like  Canada  and  Korea  -- to get balanced outcomes
on the new agenda for global financial reform.”  Four Pillars  The Treasurer affirmed his commitment to the so-called four
pillars policy which prevents the country’s largest lenders from
buying each other. During the subprime crisis of 2008, the
government was under “growing pressure” to abandon the law and
allow takeovers, Swan said in the speech, without saying where
the coercion originated from.  “Preserving competition wasn’t just about supporting
smaller lenders, it was about maintaining the competitive
pressures on the big four,” Swan said. “Not only is it hugely
important for banking competition, but it wouldn’t be prudent to
have the soundness of our banking system resting on the strength
and risk management skills of three banks rather than four.”  Commonwealth Bank, Westpac,  Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd. (ANZ)  and National Australia Bank Ltd. reported A$11
billion combined profit for their latest six-month results,
little changed from the previous half, the RBA said March 27.  Swan also underscored the strength of the Australian
financial system, pointing to the country’s growing pool of
pension savings. He last week announced plans to curb tax
concessions for wealthy Australians saving for their retirement
amid government efforts to plug the  budget deficit .  “Australia’s A$1.5 trillion superannuation system is one
of our unique national strengths which sets us apart from the
rest of the world,” Swan said. “Together with our A$3 trillion
banking system, it helped get capital to where it was needed
most during the GFC to support the economy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Benjamin Purvis in Sydney at 
 bpurvis@bloomberg.net ;
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  