-- Austrian Secrecy for Foreign Account Holders May Be Scrapped
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   W e b e r
-- 2013-04-09T13:11:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/austrian-secrecy-for-foreign-account-holders-may-be-scrapped.html
Austrian laws shielding information
about foreign account holders may be revised, the government
said today after the Alpine republic was criticized by the
European Union for holding up legislation to stop tax fraud.  Austria  will join Luxembourg in talks over an automatic
exchange of information about non-resident accounts, Social
Democratic Chancellor Werner Faymann told reporters in Vienna
today. The two countries previously vetoed EU attempts to
harmonize taxes on savings, citing concerns it would undermine
depositor protection.  “We have previously had a system which was slightly
stronger than Luxembourg but it’s too little in the continued
fight against fraud,” Faymann said after meeting with his
cabinet. “We are ready to discuss and negotiate the exchange of
data.”  The Austrian government’s turnaround on bank secrecy takes
place during an election year. Austria’s conservative People’s
Party, led by Vice Chancellor Michael Spindelegger, has opposed
greater transparency. The nation of 8.5 million people is due to
hold national elections by Sept. 29.  “We have bank secrecy, anchored in the constitution, that
we support and do not want to touch,” Finance Minister Maria Fekter said before the government met. The country would have to
check whether secrecy for foreigners could be lifted “on a non-
discriminatory basis,” she said.  Speaking at a press conference with Faymann, Spindelegger
said “Austria is not a tax haven” and that it was important to
prevent tax evasion. His party will support negotiations to lift
secrecy, he said.  Luxembourg’s Finance Minister Luc Frieden said April 6 that
Duchy is loosening its opposition against EU savings-tax
proposals. International trends are moving toward an “automatic
exchange of information,” he told Frankfurter Allgemeine
Zeitung in an interview.  Austria will find itself “in a lonely and quite
unsustainable position” if it continues to resist this
inevitable progress toward greater transparency, EU Tax
Commissioner Algirdas Semeta said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Weber in Vienna at 
 aweber45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mariajose Vera at 
 mvera1@bloomberg.net  