-- Taylor Morrison IPO to Triple Value of Oaktree, TPG Stake
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n   a n d   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 2013-04-09T16:38:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/taylor-morrison-ipo-to-triple-value-of-oaktree-tpg-stake.html
TPG Capital and  Oaktree Capital
Management LP (OAK)  stand to triple the value of their stake in Taylor
Morrison Home Corp. by taking the builder public just two years
after leading a buyout of the company.  Taylor Morrison, a Scottsdale, Arizona-based builder of
homes in five states and  Canada , filed to raise as much as
$523.8 million in an initial public offering by selling 23.8
million shares at $20 to $22 each. The pricing may be announced
today, with trading starting tomorrow.  The private-equity firms are poised to profit from a
strengthening U.S. housing recovery that is fueling demand for
new homes.  David Bonderman ’s TPG and  Howard Marks ’s Oaktree,
along with minority holder JH Investments Inc., will see the
value of their $770.3 million investment in Taylor Morrison
increase to $2.33 billion, based on the $21-a-share midpoint
range of the IPO.  “It’s been a good deal, and I think it’s going to be a
better deal,” Jack Micenko, an analyst with Susquehanna
International Group LLP in  New York , said in a telephone
interview. “There’s a lot of good stuff in the pipeline for
this company.”  Demand for new houses has come back after the worst housing
crash since the Great Depression as buyers seek to take
advantage of low  mortgage rates  while facing a diminished  supply 
of existing properties on the market. U.S.  new homes  sold at an
annual pace of 411,000 in February, up 12 percent from a year
earlier. Housing-construction  permits  jumped that month to the
highest since June 2008, according to the Commerce Department.  Sixth Largest  Taylor Morrison will have the sixth-largest market value
among public homebuilders after its IPO, according to Micenko.
The company is selling all of the stock in the offering and will
use $275 million of the proceeds along with $7 million of cash
on hand to buy shares back from existing investors, filings
show. As a result, Fort Worth, Texas-based TPG and Los Angeles-
based Oaktree will each own 39 percent of the company post-IPO.  A TPG spokeswoman,  Lisa Baker  with Owen Blicksilver PR
Inc., and an Oaktree spokeswoman, Alyssa Linn with Sard
Verbinnen & Co., declined to comment on the share sale.  Taylor Morrison had net income of $430.8 million and sales
of $1.44 billion last year, ranking it among the 10 largest
publicly traded homebuilders by revenue, according to its
prospectus. It sold 4,014 homes in the U.S. and Canada with an
average price of $364,000. Orders increased about 46 percent, to
1,697 homes, in the first quarter from a year earlier, the
company said in a regulatory filing yesterday.  Strong Markets  Orders are likely to grow 32 percent this year because
Taylor Morrison operates “in some of the stronger housing
markets in the U.S. including  Arizona ,  Florida , California and
Texas,” Megan McGrath, an analyst with MKM Partners in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut , wrote in an April 4 note. “ Taylor
Morrison (TMHC) ’s gross margins were roughly 21.7 percent in 2012,
which we estimate puts it in the top three of large, publicly
traded homebuilders.”  Margins may remain strong because Taylor Morrison “wrote
down the entire inventory of land to 52 percent of original cost
pre-IPO,” Micenko said in an April 2 note to investors.  Taylor Morrison has a 7.7-year supply of land at the
current sales pace, according to McGrath, who estimates earnings
of $1.58 a share this year, excluding one-time charges. Profit
may be held back by a weakening housing market in Canada, where
Taylor Morrison sold about 22 percent of its homes last year,
she wrote. The Canadian division’s orders fell 38 percent in the
first quarter, while orders in the U.S. increased 68 percent.  “The Canadian housing market is in decline, which
represents a headwind to both unit sales and margins, as the
Canadian business is a higher-margin business for the company,”
McGrath said in the note.  Second IPO  Taylor Morrison is the second U.S. homebuilder to go public
after an eight-year pause for the industry.  Tri Pointe Homes
Inc. (TPH) , an  Irvine , California-based builder that’s 38 percent
owned by  Barry Sternlicht ’s Starwood Capital Group LLC, raised
$267.6 million in January, the sector’s first IPO since 2004.
Tri Pointe gained 15 percent through yesterday.  UCP LLC, a homebuilder and land developer based in  San
Jose , California, filed a registration statement on April 4 for
an IPO to raise as much as $125 million. UCP, which was acquired
by PICO Holdings Inc. in 2008, hasn’t announced an offering date
or share-price range.  U.S.  homebuilders  surged to the highest since July 2007 on
March 20, and have since dropped 6.4 percent through yesterday.
The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Homebuilding Index has
risen more than 90 percent since March 31, 2011, when TPG and
Oaktree agreed to buy Taylor Morrison from U.K. parent  Taylor
Wimpey Plc. (TW/)   ‘Perfect Time’  “Private-equity investors in real estate tend to look at
multiples of equity,” Steve Duffy, managing director of Moss
Adams Capital LLC, an investment bank based in Irvine,
California, said in a telephone interview. “These guys got in
at the perfect time.”  The Taylor Morrison takeover was valued at $1.2 billion,
including a $620.3 million equity investment from TPG and
Oaktree along with JH Investments, which will own less than 1
percent after the IPO. The remainder of the purchase was
financed with debt. TPG and Oaktree subsequently invested $150
million more, filings show.  Taylor Morrison expects to issue $500 million in debt after
the IPO for working capital and general purposes.  Credit Suisse
Group AG (CSGN)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  are leading the offering.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Gittelsohn in  Los Angeles  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net ;
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  