-- AZ Electronic Plummets as 2013 Margin Seen Lower: London Mover
-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 2013-04-09T10:33:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/az-electronic-plummets-as-2013-margin-seen-lower-london-mover.html
AZ Electronic Materials SA (AZEM) , a
supplier of chemicals used in devices such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad,
fell the most since its October 2010 London listing after saying
earnings margins will be below normal levels this year.  AZ shares  dropped  as much as 30 percent to 258 pence,
losing 417 million pounds ($638 million) in value at 11:31 a.m.
and making it the biggest decliner on the  FTSE 350 Index. (NMX) 
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. cut earnings estimates and its price
target for the Luxembourg-based company after AZ said today its
IC materials business will probably perform below company
expectations in the first half.  “AZ is facing some company-specific challenges and given
the reset required to estimates, we expect the stock will come
under significant pressure today,” UBS AG said in a separate
note. Today’s profit warning is “unexpected” and the margin
outlook “significantly below expectations,” UBS said.  AZ, whose materials allow smartphone and tablet PC makers
to shrink electronics, said lower-than-expected sales at its IC
business in the first quarter were compounded by increased
pressure from dual sourcing by some customers. Sales will be
about the same level as last year’s $794 million, the company
said.  Goldman Sachs lowered its 12-month price estimate for AZ to
400 pence from 440 pence and cut its full-year revenue estimate
by 4 percent. The company’s margin on earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation, and amortization for the first half will
probably be under 30 percent, AZ said. Goldman lowered its full-
year Ebitda margin estimate to 30.5 percent from 33 percent.  New Customers  Sales at AZ’s IC Materials business in the first quarter
declined 7 percent to $123.4 million. Revenue at its optronics
business increased 9 percent to $56.5 million as it benefited
from new customers.  Revenue growth and the Ebitda margin are expected to
improve as the year progresses and remain “weighted to the
second half,” AZ said.  Share-price weakness provides “a good entry point into a
strong secular long-term growth story in chemicals,” Goldman
said. The bank recommends buying the shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Finbarr Flynn at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at   dlytle@bloomberg.net . 