-- Ballooning Gas Exports to Leave Australian Wind Winner: Energy
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2013-04-10T06:46:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/ballooning-gas-exports-to-leave-australian-wind-winner-energy.html
Australia ’s $65 billion of projects
to export liquefied natural gas from the east coast are set to
push up domestic prices, opening the way for record investment
at home in competing energy sources to produce power.  Prices are forecast to double this decade closer to levels
 customers in Asia  will pay for Australian LNG after companies
including  BG Group (BG/)  Plc and Santos Ltd. open terminals to ship
gas that could have been supplied to the local market. That will
help drive the A$33 billion ($34 billion) of wind- and solar-
power projects developers plan to build through 2020 in
Australia, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “With high, LNG-driven domestic  gas prices , renewable
energy is the cheapest source of new electricity generation,”
according to Kobad Bhavnagri, a Sydney-based analyst at
Bloomberg New Energy Finance. “It is quite conceivable that we
could leapfrog straight from coal to renewables to reduce
emissions as carbon prices rise.”  Electricity can be supplied from a new wind farm in
Australia at a cost of as little as A$80 per megawatt hour when
a price on  carbon emissions  is included, compared with A$143 a
megawatt hour from a new coal-fired power plant or A$116 a
megawatt hour from a new station powered by gas, a Bloomberg New
Energy Finance report said in February.  Solar power in Australia will be competitive with gas in
2015 or 2016, according to Bhavnagri.  Contrasting Policies  Policies embraced by Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s
government to sell natural gas to the priciest market and tax
carbon emissions are making renewable energy more competitive
with fossil fuels. New wind farms are cheaper than gas-fired
plants this year for the first time, improving opportunities for
turbine maker  Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS)  and wind farm operator  AGL
Energy Ltd. (AGK)  Australia has committed to get 20 percent of its
electricity from renewable energy by 2020.  That contrasts with the U.S., where President  Barack Obama 
approved just one gas-export terminal for destinations such as
 Japan  and has failed to mandate a federal clean energy standard.  “Australia has essentially said ‘we should be subjected to
global markets and let our products move to the highest value
use,’’ Tim Jordan, a Sydney-based analyst at Deutsche Bank AG,
said by phone. ‘‘We’re getting a better return by exporting our
gas rather than reserving it.’’  Rising Gas Prices  Gas on Australia’s east coast may double later this decade
to about A$10 a gigajoule, a record, from a range of about A$4 a
gigajoule to A$5 a gigajoule in late 2012, Graeme Bethune, chief
executive officer of EnergyQuest, an Adelaide-based consultant
to investors and governments, said by phone.  That compares with prices of A$2.50 to A$3.50 at the end of
2011, he said. A home in Victoria state using gas for central
heating may consume as much as 80 gigajoules a year, according
to the Melbourne-based Grattan Institute.  The rising cost of gas and the carbon price have made wind
power as much as 30 percent cheaper than gas for new plants
built today, New Energy Finance data show. Bhavnagri estimates
the cost of wind generation has fallen by 10 percent since 2011,
as  wind turbines  became cheaper per megawatt.  Vestas, which supplied the turbines for AGL’s 420-megawatt
Macarthur wind farm in Victoria, has half the market in
Australia and expects the country will add about 1 gigawatt of
wind power a year for the rest of the decade, Chief Executive
Officer  Ditlev Engel  said in an interview in Sydney.  Gas For Export  ‘‘It’s quite an attractive market,” Engel said yesterday.
“With 50 percent market share, if we can keep that up that
would be a nice overall level of activity.”  A looming gas shortage amid government plans to restrict
some areas for drilling coincides with increasing demand driven
by exports, AGL Managing Director Michael Fraser said at the
Bloomberg Economic Summit in Sydney today.  “We’re seeing gas prices heading from A$4 to somewhere
between A$6 and A$9 and probably toward the upper end of that,”
Fraser said in an interview. “Certainly wind is becoming more
competitive with gas.”  BG Group, Santos and a  ConocoPhillips (COP)  and Origin Energy
Ltd. venture are building LNG export plants in the northeast
Australian state of Queensland to tap increasing demand in  Asia .
The BG project is estimated to cost $20.4 billion; the Santos
and Origin ventures have budgets of $18.5 billion and A$24.7
billion, respectively.  BG’s development, the first of the projects with production
set to start next year, will send gas to the coast from fields
in southern Queensland via a 540-kilometer (336 mile) pipeline
and convert the supplies into liquid.  Domestic Gas Prices  With a total of almost $200 billion in LNG projects under
construction, Australia is projected to record a more than
fourfold surge in exports by 2017 and 2018 and to overtake Qatar
as the world’s biggest supplier,  the Bureau of Resources and
Energy Economics  said in a report last month.  In the U.S., LNG proposals have stirred debate over how
tightly to control gas exports. After issuing the first permit
to export continental U.S. gas to nations without free-trade
agreements almost two years ago, the government suspended
reviews of all other applications so it could study the
potential impact of overseas sales on domestic energy prices.  Australian LNG sales to Asia at oil-linked prices are
forecast to drive domestic gas prices higher as local users such
as utilities and manufacturers are forced to compete with
customers in Japan, China and  South Korea .  “The export of LNG from Australia could essentially price
new gas-fired electricity generation out of the market,” said
Bhavnagri at BNEF.  Clean Energy Targets  The DomGas Alliance, a group formed in 2006 in response to
a shortage of gas for new developments in the state of  Western
Australia , called last year for a national policy to reserve 15
percent of gas production for local industries and households to
ensure  energy security .  Still, the Australian government supports “open and
efficient markets, where price is allowed to balance the market
and provide incentives for developing new supply,” former
Energy Minister  Martin Ferguson  said in November.  Australia’s gas resources are becoming more expensive to
produce, Adelaide-based Santos said in an e-mail.  “Without the economies of scale that come from large
export volumes, the next wave of Australia’s gas resources,
including unconventionals, would remain uneconomic and
unavailable to Australian industry and consumers,” it said.  Weaker Demand  While Australia is experiencing weaker energy demand, which
is discouraging investment in gas-fired plants, the country’s
target to get 20 percent of its power from renewable energy by
2020 is spurring wind, according to Tony Wood, energy program
director at the  Grattan Institute .  AGL, Australia’s second-biggest electricity retailer,
suspended development of the first stage of its 1,000-megawatt
Dalton gas-fired power station in New South Wales state in
October after reviewing its economic viability. Falling energy
demand last year also prompted EnergyAustralia, the unit of Hong
Kong-based  CLP Holdings Ltd. (2) , to put on hold a proposed gas-
fired power station in the state of Victoria.  In addition to the government’s 2020 renewable energy
target and the A$23-a-ton price on carbon emissions introduced
in July, Australia’s A$10 billion Clean Energy Finance Corp. is
expected to start making investments this year.  Energy Mix Changing  The Australian Renewable Energy Agency, set up by the
government in 2011, also plans to allocate A$2.2 billion in
funds to support the industry.  Vestas and  Suzlon Energy Ltd. (SUEL)  have the biggest shares of
the Australia wind turbine market, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Sydney-based AGL’s A$1 billion Macarthur project is
the largest wind farm in the Southern Hemisphere.  About 68 percent of Australia’s electricity is generated by
coal, compared with about 19 percent for gas, the government’s
resources bureau said in August. Renewable energy may grow to
about 50 percent of the mix by 2050 from 13 percent, according
to another bureau report in December.  The Australian government plans to shift to an emissions-
trading system in 2015, although opposition leader  Tony Abbott ,
favored to win the next election, has pledged to scrap the
carbon price. Cap-and-trade is gaining favor outside the U.S.,
where legislation for a market stalled in 2009 despite the
support of Obama.  In the U.S., while there isn’t a federal rule, utilities in
29 states are required to get an increasing amount of their
supplies from renewable-energy sources.  The share of U.S. electricity from gas-fired power stations
has grown to 30 percent in the last five years from 22 percent
after a surge in shale production pushed prices down.  “Unlike the U.S., we’re not likely to see this move toward
gas, even though people have been expecting it,” Wood of the
Grattan Institute said in a phone interview. “People use this
term, ‘dash for gas,’ but you’ve got a series of things that
mean it’s just not happening.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  