-- Bank of America’s Asia DCM Head Leaves After Three Weeks in Job
-- B y   T a n y a   A n g e r e r
-- 2013-04-09T05:10:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/bank-of-america-s-asia-dcm-head-leaves-after-three-weeks-in-job.html
Ashish Malhotra has left  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC)  less than a month after the lender named him as
head of its debt capital markets unit in Asia.  Malhotra was responsible for investment-grade and high-
yield debt origination in the region and had formerly led Bank
of America’s debt syndicate, according to a March 18 memo from
the bank announcing his new role. He no longer works for the
lender, Paul Scanlon, a Hong Kong-based spokesman, said today,
declining to comment further.  The  Charlotte , North Carolina-based bank reorganized its
Asia bond and loan unit last month after hiring Devesh Ashra and
Hital Desai from Credit Suisse Group AG. Bank of America has
also appointed Vikram Lamba as a director in its leveraged
finance business, starting in July, and Yuda Zhou for its loan
syndication team, beginning next month, a person familiar with
the matter said today asking not to be named because the details
are private.  Mark Tsang, a Hong Kong-based company spokesman, declined
to comment on Lamba and Zhou’s appointments today.  Bank of America holds a 6.6 percent market share among
arrangers of dollar-, euro- and yen-denominated bonds sold by
companies from Asia outside  Japan  this year, ranking seventh,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Noble Group Ltd., Asia’s biggest listed commodity supplier,
Swire Properties Ltd. and Korea Exchange Bank are among
companies that hired the bank to manage offerings, according to
the data.  In other changes announced by Bank of America last month,
Ranobir Mukherji was appointed vice chairman of Asia DCM and
Siong Ooi was named head of Asia-Pacific leveraged finance and
loans.  Ashish Sharma, who used to be a director in Bank of
America’s loan syndication team, also recently left and was
hired by Credit Suisse as a director and head of loan
syndications APAC for its  emerging markets  financing group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tanya Angerer in Singapore at 
 tangerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  