-- Bank of Shanghai Said to Plan $2 Billion Hong Kong IPO
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-04-09T07:32:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/bank-of-shanghai-said-to-plan-2-billion-hong-kong-ipo.html
Bank of Shanghai Co. , which counts
 HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  among its shareholders, is planning to seek
about $2 billion in an initial public offering in  Hong Kong , two
people with knowledge of the matter said.  The bank is preparing a listing application and may sell
the shares in the third quarter of this year, the people said,
asking not to be identified because the information is private.
The lender may also sell shares in  Shanghai  at the same time,
one person said.  Chinese banks from Beijing to Harbin are seeking to boost
capital through share sales in Hong Kong, as domestic regulators
maintain a freeze on stock offerings in Shanghai. The China
Banking Regulatory Commission is enacting more stringent  capital
requirements  as it seeks to strengthen lenders’ financial
buffers.  Li Xiaohong, board secretary at the lender, wasn’t
immediately available to comment on the IPO plan. Shanghai
Securities News reported earlier today that the bank plans to
raise about 30 billion  yuan  ($4.8 billion) in Hong Kong and
Shanghai under a revised capital raising plan.  Bank of Shanghai, established in 1995, had 817 billion yuan
of assets by the end of last year, according to its annual
report. The lender, with more than 270 outlets, earned 7.5
billion yuan last year, an increase of 29 percent from a year
earlier. Its capital adequacy ratio, a measure of financial
strength, stood at 13.17 percent as of Dec. 31, the report
shows.  HSBC’s Stake  HSBC owns 8 percent of Bank of Shanghai, making the U.K.
lender its second-largest shareholder, according to Bank of
Shanghai’s 2011 annual report. Its largest shareholder is state-
owned Shanghai Alliance Investment Ltd.  JPMorgan Chase & Co., Morgan Stanley and UBS AG are among
banks managing the IPO for Bank of Shanghai, the people said.  China Everbright Bank Co. (601818)  may seek to raise more than $2
billion from a share sale in Hong Kong this year, people with
knowledge of the matter said on Mar 13. The Beijing-based lender
had planned to raise as much as $6 billion, before scaling it
back to about $1.7 billion and then delaying the offering in
August.  Harbin Bank Co. plans to seek as much as $1.5 billion in an
initial public offering in Hong Kong and Shanghai by 2014,
people with knowledge of the matter said last June.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net ;
Jun Luo in Shanghai at 
 jluo6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  