-- Barclays Shareholders Advised to Oppose Compensation Report
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2013-04-09T17:39:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/barclays-shareholders-advised-to-oppose-compensation-report.html
Barclays Plc (BARC)  shareholders should
oppose the lender’s compensation report as executives’ long-term
bonuses remain “high,” Pensions & Investment Research
Consultants Ltd. said.  Shareholders should also vote against its annual report at
its meeting on April 25 because the bank’s reliance on
International Financial Reporting Standards may have meant it
overstated profits by about 11.7 billion pounds ($17.9 billion),
the London-based investment adviser said in a report today. The
accounting rules restrict provisioning against expected loan
losses, it said.  Antony Jenkins, 51, who replaced Robert Diamond as chief
executive officer in August, is seeking to rein in pay and boost
profits to help restore investor confidence in the wake of the
Libor scandal at the U.K.’s second-largest lender by assets. The
London-based bank plans to eliminate some 3,700 jobs this year
after posting an annual loss of 1.7 billion pounds for 2012.  “IFRS profits may be unreliable, illusory and leaving out
losses,” PIRC said in the report.  A spokesman for Barclays declined to comment.  Barclays paid investment bankers bonuses that were
“incapable of justification” as employees focused on revenue
at the expense of clients, according to an internal report
published last week.  In the report commissioned by the bank after it was fined
290 million pounds for manipulating the London interbank offered
rate in June, Rothschild Vice Chairman Anthony Salz criticized
the lender for failings in its culture and urged it to improve
its openness and transparency.  PIRC also recommended shareholders oppose the re-election
of John Sunderland as a member of the board. The Barclays
executive told a parliamentary commission that it was right for
Diamond to receive a bonus for 2011 in recognition for his work.  PIRC advises clients who manage more than $2 trillion in
pension funds.  -- Editor: Jon Menon  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  