-- Bear Grylls Knife Maker Fiskars Targets Expansion Into Asia
-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 2013-04-09T08:50:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/bear-grylls-knife-maker-fiskars-targets-expansion-into-asia-1-.html
Fiskars Oyj (FIS1V) , the Finnish maker of
Gerber knives, plans to expand in Asia with acquisitions and
growth of existing brands while it rides out  Europe ’s recession,
Chief Executive Officer Kari Kauniskangas said.  “Acquisitions are clearly a part of our growth toolkit,
and our balance sheet makes them possible,” Kauniskangas said
in an interview at the company’s headquarters in Helsinki
yesterday. “We now have a structure into which we can
incorporate companies we acquire.”  Fiskars, with brand such as Iittala porcelain, Fiskars
garden hand tools and Bear Grylls-branded Gerber survival gear,
wants to change its revenue stream, now about 70 percent
European and 30 percent U.S., to bring in more Asian sales. It’s
transformed itself from a holding company and now actively
manages brands. Sales have grown 16 percent to 748 million euros
($974 million) since 2007 and the company sees organic growth
underpinning expansion, Kauniskangas said.  “We want to keep the U.S. strong, and we’ve focused the
past few years in building our European presence and now we’ll
gradually need to move toward  Asia ,” Kauniskangas said. “We
have shops in  Japan  and  China  and our goods are sold in Taiwan
and Korea. We know our goods and brands resonate with consumers
in these markets.”  Growing Organically  “Organic growth has been our priority and focus,” he
said. “We have to be able to manage what we have -- that’s why
we’ve made big changes. Gradually we’re reaching the point where
we’re able to start looking into acquisitions.”  In December, Fiskars bought Royal Copenhagen, the Danish
maker of hand-painted porcelain, integrating the company into
its organization this year. Fiskars also improved its
 profitability  in 2012, raising the proportion of operating
income to revenue to 8.6 percent from 7.1 percent.  The company has more than 100 shops and shop-in-shops
globally, and it opened an online store for Iittala porcelain
and glassware in Europe last year.  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ,  Staples
Inc. (SPLS) , Amazon.com Inc.,  Home Depot Inc. (HD)  and Canadian Tire Corp.
are among Fiskars retailers in  North America .  The best acquisition targets would be companies with a
“similar operating model and philosophy with operating margin
and cost levels comparable to our own,” Kauniskangas said.  ’Affordable Luxury’  “It is important for us and the company we might acquire
to operate within the distribution channels we are currently
using,” he said. “We need to be even stronger and better at
serving our existing customers.”  Fiskars shares rose 0.3 percent to 16.95 euros at 11:37
a.m. in the Finnish capital, ending three days of losses and
giving the company a market value of 1.4 billion euros. Trading
volume was 11 percent of the three-month daily average.  Fiskars, which traces its roots from  iron works  founded in
1649 at its namesake town in southwestern  Finland , will ride out
the recession riling the euro area, Kauniskangas said.  “Consumers are able and willing to spend money on the
goods we make, affordable luxury,” he said. “Even if the world
appears gray, people will seek to brighten their lives with
something small, and we’re well-positioned for that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  