-- Bernanke Says Fed to Press Banks to Curb Liquidity Risk
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2013-04-09T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/bernanke-says-fed-to-press-banks-to-curb-liquidity-risk.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the Fed plans to avert strains in the banking
system by pushing financial companies to better manage liquidity
risk and reduce reliance on wholesale funding.  Regulators “will continue to press banks to reduce further
their dependence on wholesale funding, which proved highly
unreliable during the crisis,” Bernanke said in a speech
yesterday in Stone Mountain,  Georgia . “Banks of all sizes need
to further strengthen their ability to identify, quantify and
manage their liquidity risks.”  Fed tests of whether banks could survive a severe
recession have strengthened the banking system and aided
economic growth, he said in his speech. In response to audience
questions, he also said that expansionary  monetary policies  in
the world’s largest economies are “mutually constructive.”  Wielding new powers under the Dodd-Frank Act,  the Fed  has
compelled the largest banks to retain earnings and strengthen
their buffers against losses. The Fed said last month that 17 of
the 18 largest U.S. banks -- including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  -- could withstand a deep recession
while maintaining capital above a regulatory minimum.  “It is positive for the recovery that banks are also
notably stronger than they were a few years ago,” he said.
“The use of supervisory stress tests -- a practice now codified
in statute -- has helped foster these gains.”  Bernanke, 59, has led  central bank  efforts to minimize the
odds of another taxpayer bailout following the 2008-2009
financial crisis. The Fed chief didn’t offer detailed comments
on monetary policy.  ‘Significantly Stronger’  Bernanke also didn’t speak about the economic outlook,
while saying “the economy is significantly stronger than it was
four years ago, although conditions are clearly still far from
where we would all like them to be.”  Monetary stimulus in advanced economies “is providing
additional support for other countries through stronger
financial markets, more exports,” he said in response to an
audience question.  Bank of Japan  Governor Haruhiko Kuroda last
week announced an initiative to double the monetary base in
 Japan  to end the nation’s deflation.  When the Fed  tightens policy , it will use increases in the
 interest rate  on excess reserves as its “principal tool,” he
said. He didn’t comment on the timing of any increase in
interest rates, focusing largely on regulatory topics.  “The results of the most recent stress tests and capital
planning evaluations continue to reflect improvement in banks’
condition,” Bernanke said. The firms, also including  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C) , represent more than 70 percent
of the assets in the U.S. banking system.  Regulatory Capital  A measure of regulatory capital, Tier 1 common equity, more
than doubled from the end of 2008 to the end of 2012 for an
increase of nearly $400 billion, Bernanke said.  “Higher capital puts these firms in a much better position
to absorb future losses while continuing to fulfill their vital
role in the economy,” he said at the Atlanta Fed’s 2013
Financial Markets Conference.  The KBW Bank Index, which tracks shares of 24 large U.S.
financial institutions, has risen 8.7 percent this year,
compared with 9.6 percent for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index,
as of yesterday. The  S&P 500  increased 0.6 percent yesterday to
1,563.07.  Banks have also improved their liquidity, Bernanke said.  “Banks’ holdings of cash and high-quality liquid
securities have more than doubled since the end of 2007 and now
total more than $2.5 trillion,” he said.  Deep Recession  Projected losses for the 18 biggest banks would total $462
billion over nine quarters under a scenario of deep recession
and peak unemployment of 12.1 percent, the Fed said last month
in the release of stress test results.  Bernanke told Congress in February he wants to end investor
perceptions the government will bail out the largest U.S.
financial institutions to avert a collapse.  “We need to stop too-big-to-fail,” Bernanke said in
testimony to the Senate Banking Committee in Washington on Feb.
26. “As somebody who’s spent a lot of late nights trying to
deal with these problems and the crisis, I would very much like
to have the confidence that we could close down a large
institution without causing damage to the rest of the economy.”  Regulators and lawmakers, including Fed Governor  Daniel Tarullo , Dallas Fed President  Richard Fisher  and Senator  Sherrod Brown , a Democrat from  Ohio , are pushing for more steps to
prevent the need for bailouts, asserting that the Dodd-Frank Act
has failed in its aim to curb the growth of large banks.  More Capital  New measures under consideration range from legislation to
limit the size of big banks or require make them to raise more
capital. Proposals also include regulation discouraging mergers
or ensuring financial firms hold specified levels of long-term
debt to convert into equity in the event of failure.  The Fed’s current approach focuses on stress-testing the
banks. Under the results released last month, the aggregate Tier
1 common capital ratio of the 18 biggest U.S. banks would fall
from 11.1 percent in the third quarter of 2012 to 7.7 percent in
the fourth quarter of 2014.  The Fed published its first stress test of big banks in
2009, and changed the program into a more detailed capital plan
review. The March tests were conducted under a format mandated
by the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act, one of the most sweeping reforms of
financial regulation since the 1930s.  The stress tests show the improving strength of the U.S.
banking system. With the economy in the fourth year of
expansion, banks are benefiting from a housing-market rebound,
falling mortgage delinquencies and record-low short-term
interest rates that have helped boost their earnings.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in  Washington  at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  