-- Bill Gross Raises Holdings of Treasuries to Highest Since July
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2013-04-09T23:37:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/bill-gross-raises-holdings-of-treasuries-to-highest-since-july.html
Bill Gross  raised the holdings of
Treasuries held in his $289 billion flagship fund at Pacific
Investment Management Co. to 33 percent of assets last month,
the highest level since July.  Gross boosted the proportion of U.S. government securities
in Pimco’s Total Return Fund from 28 percent in February,
according to a report on the company’s  website . Gross has been
advising investors to buy government debt, including inflation-
linked securities and nominal Treasuries as the  Bank of Japan (8301) 
last week became the latest central bank to announce
unprecedented stimulus measures.  The world’s biggest manager of bond funds cut mortgage
holdings to 33 percent in March, the lowest level since August
2011, from 36 percent in February. Newport Beach, California-
based Pimco doesn’t comment directly on monthly changes in its
portfolio holdings.  The fund kept holdings of non-U.S. developed nations’ debt
at 11 percent last month. Investment-grade credit holdings were
also steady at 9 percent.  The BOJ plans to buy 7.5 trillion yen ($76 billion) of
bonds a month and double the monetary base, which includes cash
in circulation, in two years, the central bank said April 4.  Real Growth  Gross, who manages the world’s biggest bond fund, said last
week that Japan’s unprecedented purchase program, may force
investors into other higher-yielding securities outside of the
country, including U.S. Treasuries.  Treasuries may be “ridiculously priced and under-
yielding,” Gross said in a Bloomberg Television interview April
4. “For the moment they have decent value relative to some of
the other alternatives.”  Gross kept the fund’s emerging-market debt at 7 percent and
municipal-bonds holding at 5 percent. He cut the  Total Return
Fund (PTTRX) ’s net cash-and-equivalent position to negative 3 percent,
from negative 1 percent the previous month.  The fund returned 8.4 percent over the past year, beating
92 percent of its peers, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The Total Return Fund’s government and Treasury debt
category includes fund holdings of U.S. Treasury notes, bonds,
futures and inflation-protected securities.  Pimco, a unit of the Munich-based insurer  Allianz SE (ALV) ,
managed $2 trillion in  assets  as of Dec. 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in  New York  at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net ;
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  