-- Billabong Falls to Record Low on Offer Below Inventory Value
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g   a n d   B r e t t   F o l e y
-- 2013-04-10T01:31:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/billabong-to-assess-299-million-buyout-by-sycamore-naude-group.html
Billabong International Ltd. (BBG) , the
surfwear maker whose founder last year said he wouldn’t sell for
A$1 billion, fell to a record low in Sydney trading after
entering talks on a A$287 million ($300 million) takeover.  The company fell as much as 30 percent to 51 Australian
cents. It traded at 53 cents as of 10:39 a.m. in Sydney. That’s
12 percent below the 60 cents non-binding offer that Billabong
is discussing with a group including Sycamore Partners
Management, and values the retailer at less than the inventory
in its stores and warehouses as of Dec. 31.  Billabong, hurt by a consumer spending slump and
 competition  from major retailers, last year rebuffed an approach
from TPG Capital worth almost A$842 million. It has shut stores,
fired employees, written down its brands and breached terms on
its  debt . TPG and another bidder later made reduced offers, then
walked away after examining the company’s accounts.  “There’s still a lot of uncertainty around whether the
offer will go ahead at 60 cents,” Tony Wilson, a Melbourne-
based analyst at Evans & Partners, said by phone today. “I’m
not surprised it should be at some discount.”  Under the proposal, Billabong founder Gordon Merchant and
former employee Colette Paull must exchange their combined
shareholding of about 16 percent for stock in a vehicle being
set up for the takeover. Merchant started by cutting board
shorts on his kitchen table in 1973 and selling them to Gold
Coast surf shops, according to the company’s  website .  No Guarantee  Another 8.9 percent of the vehicle is available for
shareholders who don’t want to take the 60 Australian cents cash
and there’s no guarantee that the transaction will proceed, the
company said in yesterday’s statement.  “Investors need to take the opportunity to exit the
stock,” Nick Berry, an analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc. in
Sydney, said by phone yesterday, after the offer was announced.  The two sides will discuss Sycamore’s offer for 10 business
days and shareholders don’t need to take any action yet, the
company said in its statement yesterday.  The Sycamore-led group, which includes former Billabong
director Paul Naude, had indicated it may pay as much as A$1.10
a share, when it first approached Billabong last December. In
January, Altamont Capital Partners and  VF Corp. (VFC)  also said they
would consider a bid that high as they sought to conduct due
diligence on the company.  Both bidders were examining offers of as little as 50
Australian cents a share, people with knowledge of the matter
said April 4. Altamont isn’t being included in the current
talks, Billabong said yesterday.  Discount to Inventory  “The business appears to be in worse shape than low
expectations,” Jordan Rogers, a Sydney-based analyst at
 Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) , wrote in a note to clients
yesterday. “Billabong’s operating performance has been in a
free-fall in recent years, and it is far too early to see any of
the benefits of the strategy from new managing director, Launa
Inman.”  The A$287 million proposal from the Sycamore-led group
values Billabong at little more than the A$225 million it raised
 selling new stock  to shareholders last year. It’s less than the
A$289 million value put on its inventory of clothes and
accessories as on Dec. 31, according to the company’s most
recent balance sheet.  At about 3.7 times the mid-point of analysts’  estimates  for
earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, and amortization
for 12 months ending June, the proposal’s multiple is less than
half the median in 57 apparel deals globally over the past five
years.  Before the latest bids, TPG made two separate approaches to
Billabong last year. TPG offered as much as A$3.30 a share in
February. Merchant said at the time that he wouldn’t support an
offer as high as A$4 a share from TPG, according to a regulatory
statement. That would have valued the company at about A$1.02
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  TPG returned with a A$1.45-a-share provisional offer in
July, which it eventually dropped. Another unnamed bidder that
people identified as Bain Capital also considered a A$1.45 bid
before walking away in September.  At its peak in May 2007, the company was valued at A$3.84
billion.  The company on Feb. 22 reported a record loss in the six
months ended Dec. 31 on A$567 million of charges, as it wrote
off most of the value of its main brand. It will post 80 percent
of its assets and 85 percent of its earnings as security to its
lenders after breaching terms on its debt, Billabong said when
announcing its half-year results that day.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brett Foley in Melbourne at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net ;
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  