-- Bin Laden Aide Loses Bid to Question FBI at Resentencing
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-04-09T22:55:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/bin-laden-aide-loses-bid-to-question-fbi-at-resentencing.html
Osama bin Laden’s former secretary,
who had been given life in prison for participating in a plot to
kill Americans, lost a bid to question FBI agents and witnesses
during his resentencing.  U.S. District Judge  Lewis Kaplan  in  Manhattan  today denied
a request by Wadih el-Hage to question “the main FBI agents and
witnesses” who testified against him at his 2001 trial. El-
Hage, one of four men convicted of conspiring with bin Laden in
a global plot to kill U.S. nationals, claimed that prior
requests to his lawyers to question the agents had met with
resistance.  “My past experience with my lawyers is that they delay my
requests to the last minute, then use that as an excuse not to
do it, therefore I am writing this letter,” he told the judge.  The same judge set Jan.7 as the trial date for another bin
Laden aide, Sulaiman Abu Ghayth, the terrorist leader’s son-in-
law and chief spokesman. Abu Ghayth was charged with planning to
kill Americans before the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks. He
pleaded not guilty last month.  Kaplan said in his ruling today that although El-Hage has
the right to make suggestions to his lawyers, he can’t take part
in the conduct of his case before the court as long as he is
represented by counsel.  “Given the aggressive representation of this defendant by
his able counsel, this court declines to permit hybrid
representation,” Kaplan wrote.  Embassy Bombings  Three other people were tried with el-Hage and convicted of
participating in the August 1998 bombings of the U.S. embassies
in Nairobi and Tanzania that killed 224 people, including 12
U.S. citizens, and injured more than 4,500. The U.S. presented
evidence that El-Hage had been in  Africa  in 1998 and returned to
the U.S. before the bombings occurred. He wasn’t charged in the
attacks.  El-Hage, a naturalized American citizen born in Lebanon and
educated in the U.S., served as bin Laden’s personal secretary
in  Sudan  in the 1990s. He was convicted of lying to a federal
grand jury in New York that was investigating bin Laden and
al-Qaeda.  While his conviction was upheld in 2008, the appeals court
sent the case back to the trial judge for reconsideration of his
life term.  Sam Schmidt, a lawyer for el-Hage who defended him at
trial, declined to comment on today’s ruling, saying he hadn’t
seen his client’s letter or Kaplan’s decision.  The case is U.S. v. El-Hage, 98-cr-01023, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  