-- BlueCrest Said to Hire DW Investment’s Heelan to Build ABS Group
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2013-04-09T16:00:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/bluecrest-said-to-hire-dw-investment-s-heelan-to-build-abs-group.html
BlueCrest Capital Management LLP,
the $35 billion hedge-fund firm run by former JPMorgan Chase &
Co. trader Michael Platt, hired DW Investment Management LP’s
Shaun Heelan to boost its securitized-debt team.  Heelan, a former  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  trader, will be a
portfolio manager focused on asset-backed securities and
commercial-mortgage bonds, according to two people familiar with
the move who asked not to be identified because it hasn’t been
announced. He will be based in New York to oversee the fund’s
securitized investments with John McNiff, who joined from Bank
of America in May 2012, the people said.  BlueCrest, the third-biggest European hedge fund, is luring
traders from rival asset managers and Wall Street banks as it
seeks to build an “investment-bank quality” trading group,
pushing traders to avoid big bets on the direction of bond
prices and instead profit from smaller market anomalies,
according to its  website . The firm has increased its assets by
about $7 billion since the end of 2011.  Ed Orlebar, a spokesman for London-based BlueCrest, and
Daniel Jason who represents DW Investment, declined to comment.
Heelan said he couldn’t comment.  BlueCrest is expanding its team to trade securities linked
to everything from residential mortgages to skyscrapers and
mobile-home parks after hedge funds focused on mortgage debt
topped all categories in 2012, rising 22.7 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Heelan joined DW Investment from  Bank of America , according
to records maintained by the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority. He spent three years at Merrill Lynch & Co. before
the brokerage was acquired by the second-biggest U.S. lender in
January 2009 as banks that bet heavily on the U.S. housing
market teetered on collapse,  Finra  records show.  DW Investment manages money for Brevan Howard Asset
Management LLP, Europe’s second-biggest hedge fund, with $39
billion in assets. London-based Man Group Plc is the world’s
largest publicly traded hedge fund, with assets of $57 billion
as of Dec 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  