-- BMW Widens Sales Lead Over Audi as Mercedes Gains Expand
-- B y   C h a d   T h o m a s
-- 2013-04-09T11:34:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/bmw-widens-sales-lead-over-audi-as-mercedes-gains-expand.html
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  widened
its luxury-auto sales lead over  Audi AG (NSU)  last month on demand for
the 3-Series sedan and X1 sport-utility vehicle, while  Daimler
AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz brand gained momentum with new small cars.  Deliveries at the BMW brand, the world’s largest premium
carmaker since 2005, rose 4.4 percent to 159,195 vehicles in
March, beating the 3 percent gain posted by  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s
Audi. BMW’s bigger increase helped widen its lead in the first
quarter, with the Munich-based automaker delivering 381,404
cars, or 11,904 more vehicles than Audi.  Mercedes increased sales 6.5 percent last month, with
demand for the new A- and B-Class compacts climbing 49 percent
in the first quarter. The Stuttgart, Germany-based carmaker
trailed behind BMW by 56,506 vehicles in the three-month period.  BMW Chief Executive Officer  Norbert Reithofer  said last
month that the carmaker’s factories are running at full capacity
to keep up with demand. Sales of the X1 through March jumped 28
percent, while 3-Series deliveries climbed 20 percent. Gains at
Ingolstadt, Germany-based Audi were led by deliveries of the A1
small car and Q3 compact SUV.  “The BMW group achieved an all-time high in sales last
month and the best first quarter in its history, despite the
headwinds present in  Europe ,” Ian Robertson, BMW sales chief,
said in a statement today. “We are aiming for further growth in
BMW group worldwide sales in 2013.”  Faring Better  The German luxury carmakers, all of which are targeting
sales increases this year, have fared better than the region’s
volume auto manufacturers as rising demand in  China  and the U.S.
offset plunging industrywide deliveries in Europe. The region is
wrestling with a sixth straight year of declines.  “In spite of the difficult market in western Europe, we’re
still seeing positive sales numbers for the premium
manufacturers,” said Frank Biller, an analyst at Landesbank
Baden-Wuerttemberg in Stuttgart. “It remains to be seen to what
extent these sales were bought with higher rebates. It’s not
easy to push sales in a market like this.”  Deliveries by Volkswagen’s namesake brand in March fell 0.8
percent to 532,400 vehicles as demand plunged in the
manufacturer’s home region, the Wolfsburg, Germany-based
carmaker said today. First-quarter sales gained 5.2 percent to
1.43 million cars.  “Markets are becoming more difficult, and in some cases
decidedly more challenging,” Christian Klingler, VW’s sales
chief, said in a statement.  Fiat Targets  Fiat SpA (F)  Chief Executive Officer Sergio Marchionne said an
expected drop in European deliveries this year isn’t priced into
the Italian carmaker’s 2013 targets. The CEO said today he will
update the regional distribution of his forecasts at the end of
April, when Fiat releases first-quarter results.  “North America, Latin America and Asia Pacific keep on
sustaining our forecasts, while in Europe we still see a
significant level of uncertainties,” Marchionne said at the
automaker’s annual meeting in Fiat’s headquarters city of Turin.  Fiat, which would have posted a 1.04 billion-euro loss
($1.36 billion) in 2012 without its holding in Chrysler Group
LLC, currently plans to boost trading profit to as much as 4.5
billion euros in 2013 from 3.81 billion euros last year.  Volkswagen  dropped  as much as 3.7 percent to 150.40 euros,
the lowest intraday price since Nov. 16, and was trading down
2.2 percent at 1:30 p.m. in  Frankfurt . The stock has declined 11
percent this year, valuing the German automaker at 68.4 billion
euros. Daimler was 0.2 percent lower while BMW gained 0.3
percent. Fiat  rose  0.7 percent in Milan.  Sales Boost  Mercedes is looking for a further sales boost this year
once it adds the CLA four-door coupe to its compact car line-up
this month and brings out a revamped version of its upscale E-
Class at the same time. A new version of the flagship S-Class
sedan is scheduled to reach showrooms in the second half. The
automaker’s first-quarter deliveries climbed 3.5 percent.  To meet rising demand for A- and B-Class models, the
manufacturer will increase production of the vehicles with 21
extra  shifts  at its plant in Rastatt,  Germany . The compact-car
facility in Kecskemet,  Hungary , added Saturday production this
month, and Mercedes will build more SUVs at its plant in
Tuscaloosa,  Alabama , Daimler has said.  “At Daimler, you’re starting to see the effect of the A-
and B-Class,” Biller said. “The momentum should pick up in the
second half.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chad Thomas in Berlin at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  