-- BOE’s Haldane Says More Must Be Done to Use Debt as Pay at Banks
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n   a n d   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2013-04-09T21:06:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/boe-s-haldane-says-more-must-be-done-to-use-debt-as-pay-at-banks.html
Andrew Haldane ,  Bank of England 
 executive director  for financial stability, said the structure
of bank pay still needs to change to include credit instruments
and minimize risks associated with some equity packages.  “Equity can give strange incentives to management” when a
firm is “at death’s door,” Haldane said at an event today
arranged by the  Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta  in Stone
Mountain,  Georgia . “In the crisis, many big firms gambled for
their resurrection when, if you look at how top management was
remunerated, it was heavily in equity.”  Haldane has already called for changes to bank pay to
reduce risks to the financial system, and said in January that
bonuses should be deferred for as long as 10 years to encourage
“prudence.” He sits on the BOE’s Financial Policy Committee,
which monitors risks to the financial system.  So-called bail-in bonds, contingent convertible securities
and subordinated debt can counter the dynamic created by big
equity components in the pay of top management, according to
Haldane. “More can and should be done to have those sorts of
debt form a larger part of compensation structures,” he said.  “CoCos if they are triggered are dilutive” and may
provide an early incentive to management to have a “remedial
plan before they are triggered,” Haldane said. Still, he said
that he “wouldn’t exaggerate” the incentive.  Complex Rules  His remarks on pay followed comments on the structure of
banking regulation, and how these can undermine financial
stability. The current arrangement “has encouraged gaming,” he
said at the conference.  Financial regulations are too complex and a “radical
pruning” is needed to prevent banks and other institutions from
finding ways around them, he said.  “We have created a system
with Byzantine levels of complexity. It’s near impossible to
create a level playing field.”  He proposed three rules: a  leverage ratio  “set at levels
north, possibly well north, of those prescribed in international
regulation,” a restructuring rule that “compels you to
organize your business in such a way” that enables it to be
wound down simply, “and thirdly a resolution rule which effects
the restructuring of your business” if needed.  “Have those the rules and in return for that we back
off,” he said, referring to regulators. “We won’t plant 50
bank examiners in your shop. We will leave you to run your own
business.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net ;
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  