-- BOJ Defeats Basci Cut as Lira Carry Trade Revives: Turkey Credit
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2013-04-09T15:02:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/boj-defeats-basci-cut-as-lira-carry-trade-revives-turkey-credit.html
Turkish central bank Governor Erdem Basci’s efforts to weaken the lira are being undermined by
stimulus from his counterpart in  Japan  as investors buy the
Mediterranean nation’s assets in carry trades funded by the yen.  Investors who borrowed in Japanese yen and invested in
lira-denominated securities earned 4.3 percent over the past
month, outpacing all major emerging-market currencies in  Europe ,
the  Middle East  and  Africa . The lira strengthened for a fourth
consecutive day today, while yields on two-year lira notes rose
after dropping to a four-week low yesterday.  Basci, who is under pressure from the government and
manufacturers to revive a slowing economy, said last week the
currency’s appreciation may prompt a “measured rate cut”
before the central bank’s scheduled policy meeting on April 16.
The yen weakened through 99 per dollar for the first time since
May 2009 yesterday after the  Bank of Japan (8301)  said last week it
will boost monthly debt purchases to 7.5 trillion yen ($80
billion) to battle deflation.  “The lira is benefiting from the BOJ action, as are other
EMEA currencies,” Mihail Bozinov, an emerging-market fixed-
income strategist at  Morgan Stanley (MS)  in  London , said in e-mailed
comments yesterday. Bond yields have fallen across the curve --
“signs of strong inflows and hunt for yield,” he said.  Lira Gains  Turkey ’s currency advanced 0.2 percent to 1.7829 against
the dollar at 5:55 p.m. in Istanbul, taking its advance this
month to 1.5 percent.  The  yield  on two-year lira debt rose 11 basis points, or
0.11 percentage point, to 5.95 percent, after falling 24 basis
points yesterday, the biggest decline since January 2012, to the
lowest closing level since March 13. Turkey offers the highest
yield on similar-maturity local currency debt after Brazil and
 India  among 19 major  emerging markets .  Lira-denominated bonds have been the most popular foreign-
currency debt for Japanese investors after Brazil and Australia,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The central bank must “definitely” cut the benchmark
interest rate, Economy Minister Zafer Caglayan said in an
interview with CNBC-e television yesterday.  Turkey’s economy expanded 1.4 percent in the fourth
quarter, the slowest growth since a recession in 2009, the
statistics office said April 1. That capped a 2.2 percent
expansion last year, down from 8.8 percent in 2011. Four days
later, Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  said interest rates
of around 6 percent were “still high” and should be decreased
further to reduce pressure on consumers.  ‘Upside Limited’  “In view of the Turkish officials’ comments and the
upcoming central bank meeting, the upside potential of the lira
is quite limited,” Thu Lan Nguyen, a currency strategist at
Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt , said by e-mail yesterday. The lira
is unlikely to strengthen beyond 1.78 per dollar and may weaken
to 1.80 after the central bank action, she said.  The lira will probably weaken to 1.81 against the dollar in
the second quarter, according to the median estimate of 23 banks
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Since September, Basci has reduced at least one of his
three main rates every month, including a 100 basis-point cut to
the  overnight lending rate , the upper band of the so-called
 interest-rate  corridor, to 7.5 percent on March 26. The central
bank may lower rates again if the real effective exchange rate
index exceeds the regulator’s limit of 120, he said. The index,
which measures the lira against an inflation-weighted basket of
currencies, rose to 119.95 last month from 119.75 in February.  Not Aggressive  “Basci will not be very aggressive in trying to prevent
the lira from appreciating,” Ilan Solot, a currency strategist
at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. in London, said yesterday by e-
mail. It will probably weaken as investors “start to price in
greater conviction that the central bank will reduce the lower
end of the interest rate corridor,” he said.  The  extra yield  investors demand to hold Turkish debt
denominated in dollars rather than U.S. Treasuries rose three
basis points to 204 today, compared with the emerging-market
average of 282, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global
Index.  Five-year credit-default swaps on Turkey were little
changed at 133 basis points. That’s below the level of 144 for
higher-rated  Russia  and 164 for  South Africa . The contracts,
which decline as perceptions of a borrower’s creditworthiness
improve, pay the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying
securities or cash if a borrower fails to adhere to its debt
agreements.  Foreign investors bought $3.1 billion in lira bonds in the
week to March 29, the biggest weekly inflow since records began
in 2005, according to central bank data last week.  “The hunt for yield is returning and Turkish rates at 5-6
percent look tempting,”  Nigel Rendell , a senior analyst at
Medley Global Advisors in London, said in e-mailed comments
yesterday. “Carry still looks good versus yen and others and
the Turkish lira is always one of the main beneficiaries in
times like these.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  