-- Bovespa-Futures Fall as Commodity Drop Saps Exports
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2013-04-12T12:28:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/bovespa-futures-rise-as-china-inflation-data-boost-metals.html
Bovespa-index futures dropped as
lower commodities prices dimmed the outlook for  Brazil ’s raw-
material exporters amid concern that flagging growth in the
global economy will pare demand.  Plane builder  Embraer SA (EMBR3)  may move after saying it delivered
17 commercial planes and 12 executive jets in the first quarter.
Oil-services provider  Lupatech SA (LUPA3)  may be active as it seeks to
restructure its debt after missing an interest payment on $275
million of bonds this week, according to a person with direct
knowledge of the plans.  Bovespa-index  futures contracts  expiring next week fell 0.5
percent to 55,050 at 9:06 a.m. in Sao Paulo. The real weakened
0.2 percent to 1.9798 per dollar. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI
index of 24 raw materials lost 1 percent after economic data
signaled slower economic growth.  Figures on April 15 will show  China’s economy  expanded at
an 8 percent annual pace last quarter, slower than projected in
February, according to economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg. The
country is Brazil’s biggest trading partner. U.K. construction
slid 7 percent in February from a year earlier, a report showed
today.  The  Bovespa (IBOV)  has retreated 13 percent from this year’s high
on Jan. 3 amid concern accelerating inflation may curb Brazil’s
economic recovery and the government’s interventionist policies
will hurt profits in industries including utilities and energy.
The  MSCI BRIC Index (MXBRIC)  of shares in Brazil,  Russia ,  India  and  China 
has lost 7.5 percent over the same period.  Brazil’s benchmark equity gauge  trades  at 11.1 times
analysts’ earnings estimates for the next four quarters,
compared with 10.5 for the  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  of 21
developing nations’ equities, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Trading volume for stocks in Sao Paulo stood at 6.33
billion ($3.2 billion) reais yesterday, which compares with a
daily average of 7.43 billion reais this year through April 8,
according to data compiled by the  exchange .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  