-- Brasil Foods Names Diniz Chairman to Lead Growth
-- B y   L u c i a   K a s s a i
-- 2013-04-09T18:48:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/brasil-foods-names-diniz-chairman-to-lead-growth.html
Shareholders of BRF-Brasil Foods SA,
the country’s largest foodmaker, named billionaire Abilio Diniz
as chairman as the company seeks to revive growth and boost
efficiency.  Diniz, chairman of retailer Cia. Brasileira de Distribuicao
Grupo Pao de Acucar, was chosen to replace Nildemar Secches,
who’s retiring after heading the board since 2007, in a
shareholders meeting today in Itajai, Brazil. Shareholders also
approved changing the Sao Paulo-based company’s name to BRF SA.  Brasil Foods shareholders are naming Diniz, the driving
force behind the Brazilian supermarket industry’s consolidation,
to help resume growth after the $3.8 billion takeover of Sadia
SA in 2009 led antitrust authorities to demand asset sales.
Under Diniz, Brazil’s top retailer Pao de Acucar increased sales
25-fold in two decades and tripled profit margins after 13
takeovers including Extra hypermarkets, Casas Bahia furniture
stores and the Ponto Frio consumer electronics chain.  Diniz received support from major shareholders including
Banco do Brasil SA employees’s Previ retirement fund and
private-equity fund  Tarpon Investimentos SA (TRPN3) , which own a
combined 20.1 percent of Brasil Foods. Petroleo Brasileiro SA
workers’ Petros pension fund, which owns a 12.1 percent stake,
abstained.  The nomination of Diniz, the son of Pao de Acucar founder
Valentim Diniz, has come under attack because he said in
February that he planned to remain chairman of both companies.
Corporate governance advisers Glass Lewis & Co. last week
recommended shareholders vote against Diniz’s appointment
because Pao de Acucar is Brasil Foods’ biggest client and the
foodmaker is the retailer’s biggest supplier.  Conflicts of Interest  Pao de Acucar’s controlling shareholder Casino Guichard-
Perrachon SA has asked Diniz to leave the board to avoid
conflicts of interest. The tycoon, who has been the chairman of
Pao de Acucar since 2003 after eight years as chief executive
officer, said that he has the right to remain the board’s head
as part of a 2005 accord with the Saint-Etienne, France-based
retailer.  Diniz, in a statement read during the shareholders meeting
today, said there’s no impediment to his appointment as Brasil
Foods chairman because he doesn’t hold any position in a
competitor of the foodmaker.  The billionaire will probably seek acquisitions outside
Brazil as the company’s domestic growth is limited by antitrust
restrictions, Frederico de Castro, an analyst at Sao Paulo-based
Perfin Investimentos, which manages 2.6 billion reais ($1.3
billion) including Brasil Foods shares, said last week.  CEO’s Plan  Brasil Foods Chief Executive Officer Jose Antonio Fay, who
has said since 2009 that the foodmaker would seek an
international expansion, so far hasn’t made any major
acquisition abroad as the company focused on reducing debt from
the purchase of Sadia.  The foodmaker reported net income of 562.8 million reais in
the fourth quarter, beating the 428.1 million-real average of
seven analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Sales rose 13
percent from the previous quarter. Earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization, or Ebitda, have fallen to
8.2 percent of sales in 2012 from 11 percent the previous year.  Diniz became Pao de Acucar’s CEO in 1995 after a family
spat over control of the company ended with him winning over his
two brothers, according to information on his blog page.
Brazil’s largest retailer almost filed for bankruptcy protection
in the 1990s, leading him to sell a stake to Casino to cut debt
and fund an expansion. In 1989 he was kidnapped and kept hostage
for seven days until Brazil’s federal police set him free.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucia Kassai in Sao Paulo at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  