-- Brazil Policy Remains Cautious Amid Global Outlook, Tombini Says
-- B y   M a t t h e w   M a l i n o w s k i
-- 2013-04-09T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/brazil-policy-remains-cautious-amid-global-outlook-tombini-says.html
Brazil ’s central bank has acted with
caution due to global uncertainties as prospects for
international growth remain low, President Alexandre Tombini
said yesterday.  Policy makers have expressed concern over the resilience of
Brazil’s inflation in recent months, Tombini said at an event in
the southern Brazilian city of Porto Alegre. The central bank
adjusted its communications strategy, and further actions may be
necessary to rein in costs, he added.  “The focus of Brazil’s monetary policy has been and will
continue exclusively to be the stability of prices,” Tombini
said. “Still, due to remaining uncertainties, the central bank
has acted with caution.”  President Dilma Rousseff’s government is caught between the
slowest economic growth in three years and inflation levels
approaching the upper limit of the central bank’s target range.
While officials have kept borrowing costs at record lows and
expanded tax cuts in efforts to steady an uneven recovery,
accelerating annual inflation has increased pressure on the
central bank to tighten monetary policy. Authorities will wait
for indicators including the March consumer price report
tomorrow before deciding upon their next steps, Tombini told a
Senate hearing last week in Brasilia.  Consumer prices rose 6.43 percent in the 12 months through
mid-March, and all but three of the 29 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg  estimate  the March inflation data will show it broke
the target range for the first time since 2011. The central bank
targets inflation at 4.5 percent, plus or minus two percentage
points.  Investment Growth  After growing just 0.9 percent in 2012, recent indicators
show Brazil’s economy has experienced an uneven recovery this
year. While consumer default rates in February fell to the
lowest levels since December 2011 and retail sales in January
topped analysts’ estimates, industrial production in February
contracted the most since December 2008.  Brazil’s economy will grow at a 4 percent annualized rate
in the first quarter of the year, Tombini said. Investments have
rebounded on improvements in growth prospects, Tombini said,
adding that expenditures on agriculture machines and truck
production grew in the first quarter.  Brazil’s $2.5 trillion economy will grow 3.1 percent this
year, the central bank said in its latest quarterly inflation
report. The country’s gross domestic product expanded 2.7
percent and 7.5 percent in 2011 and 2010, respectively.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Malinowski in Brasilia at 
 mmalinowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  