-- Brazil Swap Rates Rise as Inflation Accelerates; Real Advances
-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2013-04-09T13:19:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/brazil-swap-rates-rise-as-inflation-accelerates-real-advances.html
Brazil ’s shorter-term swap rates
climbed after an index of wholesale, construction and consumer
prices rose more than forecast, spurring speculation the central
bank will raise borrowing costs to curb inflation.  Swap rates due in January 2014 increased four basis points,
or 0.04 percentage point, to 7.85 percent at 10:10 a.m. in Sao
Paulo. The real rose 0.4 percent to 1.9848 per dollar.  The Getulio Vargas Foundation reported today that its IGP-
DI index advanced 0.31 percent last month, higher than the 0.20
percent increase forecast by economists surveyed by Bloomberg.
Tomorrow’s report from the national statistics agency is
forecast by economists to show that consumer prices rose 6.62
percent in March from a year earlier, exceeding the upper limit
of the central bank’s target range.  “Higher IGP-DI inflation data today probably mean
quickening inflation tomorrow and can feed the idea that the
Selic will rise as early as April,”  Newton Rosa , the chief
economist at Sul America Investimentos in Sao Paulo, said in a
telephone interview.  Further action may be necessary to rein in inflation after
policy makers adjusted their communications strategy, central
bank President Alexandre Tombini said in Porto Alegre yesterday.  Minutes of the central bank’s March 5-6 meeting indicated
that an increase in the benchmark lending rate known as the
Selic from a record low 7.25 percent wasn’t imminent as policy
makers said “a cautious management of monetary policy” was
needed. Board members are scheduled to meet April 16-17.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Blake Schmidt in Sao Paulo at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  