-- Cairn India Shares Gain on Crude Oil Discovery: Mumbai Mover
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2013-04-09T06:15:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/cairn-india-shares-gain-on-crude-oil-discovery-mumbai-mover.html
Cairn India Ltd. (CAIR) , which extracts
crude from the nation’s biggest deposit on land, rose the most
in a week in Mumbai after saying it found oil in a new well.  The  shares  climbed as much as 3.7 percent to 296 rupees,
poised for the biggest gain since April 1, and traded at 293
rupees as of 11:05 a.m. in Mumbai. The stock has fallen 7.2
percent this year, compared with a 4.6 percent drop in the Nifty
Index.  Cairn India, controlled by billionaire Anil Agarwal’s
 Vedanta Resources Plc (VED) , discovered oil after a gap of four years
when it resumed drilling in a new deposit in its block in the
western state of Rajasthan. The company is accelerating plans to
start 30 wells in the year started April 1 and a similar number
in the following 12 months as it seeks to raise production in
the area by 71 percent to 300,000 barrels a day.  “They have to drill more wells to access the potential of
the discovery and see if it can significantly add to output,”
said Gagan Dixit, a Mumbai-based analyst with Quant Broking Pvt.,
who has a buy rating on the stock. “Investors will have to wait
for more drilling results for the shares to really take off.  A slower-than-expected production ramp-up at the Rajasthan
block has impeded  Cairn India ’s shares this year. The company
discovered new oil in the Dharvi Dungar sands in Rajasthan’s
Barmer district and is evaluating the size of the reserves,
according to a stock exchange filing today.  Spur Output  Cairn India started its first commercial sales of natural
gas from the area and activated a new oilfield to revive lower-
than-expected output on March 23. The new field, called
Aishwariya, has capacity to produce 10,000 barrels a day.  Cairn India’s  profit  rose 48 percent to 33.4 billion rupees
($613 million), or 16.5 rupees a share, in the third quarter
ended Dec. 31 after it raised output from Barmer.  The government in January approved Cairn  India ’s plan to
raise production from the Barmer block to 300,000 barrels a day,
equivalent to about 40 percent of India’s current output. To
reach that target, the company will need to find more oil in the
area, Chief Executive Officer P. Elango said in February. The
block has proved reserves of 1 billion barrels.  Vedanta Resources and unit  Sesa Goa Ltd. (SESA)  completed buying a
59 percent stake in Cairn India from  Cairn Energy Plc (CNE)  and other
shareholders in December 2011. India’s cabinet approved the
takeover on the condition the cost of developing the Rajasthan
field would include royalty, which could be recovered from sales.  Oil & Natural Gas Corp. (ONGC) , Cairn India’s partner with a 30
percent stake in the Rajasthan block, has paid the entire
royalty since production started in August 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  