-- California Assembly Would Curb Capital-Appreciation Bonds
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2013-04-09T03:08:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/california-assembly-would-curb-capital-appreciation-bonds.html
California ’s Assembly passed limits
on long-term bonds that have saddled school districts with debt
of as much as 10 times the principal after financing new
classrooms in years of slumping property values.  The lower house of the state legislature approved a  bill 
that would limit the duration of capital-appreciation bonds to
25 years, prohibit debt payments of more than four times the
principal and mandate the option of early repayment on deals
that mature in more than 10 years. The vote yesterday was 73-0.  State Treasurer Bill Lockyer called for curbs on the bonds
after news reports last year showed that the Poway Unified
School District in San Diego County would pay $1 billion in
interest on $105 million in bonds maturing over 22 to 40 years.  “This bill would protect taxpayers from terrible bond
deals while maintaining school districts’ ability to provide
their parents and children needed facilities,” Lockyer said
yesterday in a statement about the measure, Assembly Bill 182.
“Today’s vote reflects widespread agreement that AB 182 offers
a reasoned, balanced approach to addressing this important
issue.”  The proposal now goes to the state Senate, which like the
Assembly is controlled by Democrats.  California school districts sold $19.7 billion of in
capital-appreciation bonds from 2000 through September 2012,
according to data provided by  Tom Dresslar , a Lockyer spokesman.
The zero-coupon notes carry higher yields than coupon bonds, to
compensate investors for the longer holding period before they
receive any income.  Popular Mechanism  Boards overseeing local schools increasingly turned to the
long-term financing mechanism after the 2007 subprime-mortgage
market meltdown and the housing-market collapse that followed
cut into property-tax revenue used to build and modernize
classrooms and other space, an analysis of the measure shows.  The current bill would hinder districts’ ability to finance
construction, said Jeff Vaca, deputy executive director of the
California Association of School Business Officials.  The group, representing more than three-quarters of
California’s approximately 1,000 school districts, opposes the
limits proposed in the measure.  “It’s our view that this bill would make it more difficult
for school districts to pursue their capital-improvement
programs, if not impossible,” Vaca said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in  Los Angeles  at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  