-- California Carbon Advances After Governor Approves Quebec Link
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2013-04-09T22:56:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/california-carbon-advances-after-governor-approves-quebec-link.html
California carbon futures rose to
the highest price in almost three weeks after Governor Jerry Brown approved a proposal to link the state’s greenhouse-gas
program with one in Quebec.  The regulation behind carbon markets in Quebec and
California are “similar or identical” enough to be linked,
Brown said in a letter posted on his website late yesterday.
State law requires the governor’s approval before the state Air
Resources Board links carbon systems with any jurisdiction. The
board is scheduled to consider regulation April 19 to join
systems with Quebec beginning Jan. 1, 2014.  Futures based on California carbon allowances for 2014
gained for the first time in three days, rising 15 cents to
$14.70 a metric ton, the highest since March 21, according to
data compiled by Chicago-based  CME Group Inc. (CME)  Prices have fallen
8.7 percent this year.  “The announcement could be mildly bullish due to the
fundamental upside a linkage would provide,” Thomas Marcello, a
Bloomberg New Energy Finance analyst, said in a research note
today. “We do not expect speculators to take long-term
positions based on the announcement. Instead, price reaction is
likely to be both short-lived and limited in scale.”  The air board’s staff has said a link with Quebec would
improve market liquidity for carbon allowances by increasing the
pool of both permits and companies trading them. The reduction
in greenhouse-gas emissions achieved by combining the two
programs would also be larger than cuts through a California-
only system, the agency said in a report last year.  Quebec Link  The link to Quebec may raise California carbon allowance
prices from 2013 to 2020, depending on how many offset credits
the Canadian province is able to generate, said Marcello, based
in New York. Should Quebec supply less than 23 million tons of
credits, average annual prices will probably increase by 15
percent compared with a California-only market, he said.  California’s air board is considering changes to the cap-
and-trade program this year that would, among other things,
clarify the type of interstate power sales banned by the program
and alter the number of free carbon allowances allocated to
companies such as oil and gas producers, according to a notice
posted on the agency’s website today.  Senator Barbara Boxer, a California Democrat, and
Representative Edward Markey of Massachusetts, the top Democrat
on the House’s natural resources panel, asked the Nuclear
Regulatory Commission to delay a decision on the restart of
 Edison International (EIX) ’s San Onofre nuclear power plant in
Southern California until an “expansive investigation and
safety review” are complete. In a letter dated today, Boxer and
Markey asked the commission to respond to their request by
tomorrow.  Power grid operator California ISO has turned to more
emissions-intensive, gas-fired power generation in the nuclear
plant’s absence.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in San Francisco at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  