-- Canada Housing Starts Show Low Rates Supporting Building
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s   a n d   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2013-04-09T15:10:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/canada-housing-starts-show-low-rates-supporting-building.html
Canadian housing  starts  unexpectedly
increased for a second month in March and building permits rose
in February, evidence that low borrowing costs are supporting
construction.  Starts were 184,028 at a seasonally adjusted annual pace
during the month, up from a revised 183,207 in February, the
Ottawa-based Canada Mortgage & Housing Corp. said on its website
today. In a separate report,  Statistics Canada  said building
permits rose for a second month in February on a rebound in non-
residential projects.  Construction has been supported by some of the lowest
 mortgage rates  in decades, along with historically cheap
borrowing for businesses, even as the government tries to
tighten the mortgage market amid concern prices in some cities
have become inflated. Even with the pick-up over the past two
months, starts in the first quarter were  down  12.5 percent on
average from the fourth quarter.  “An ongoing low rate environment is preventing a more
protracted weakness in residential construction,” Emanuella Enenajor, an economist with  CIBC World Markets , said in a note
to investors. “Buyer fatigue and underlying household
restraint” are still constraining residential construction, she
said.  While growth in the  construction industry  shrank 0.1
percent in January from the previous month, it accelerated 3.5
percent from the same month a year earlier, making it the
fastest growing sector on a year-over-year basis, according to
output figures released by Statistics Canada on March 28.  Tightening Rules  Housing will curb the nation’s growth rate by 0.1
percentage point this year, the  Bank of Canada   estimates .  Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  tightened mortgage rules for
the fourth time in four years in July, and has criticized
lenders for lower mortgage rates in recent weeks.  Home starts have increased since January’s reading of
163,945 units, which was the lowest since 2009. Economists
forecast 175,000 starts in March, according to the median of 19
responses to a Bloomberg News survey.  The  value  of municipal permits rose 1.7 percent to C$5.95
billion ($5.86 billion) in February, Statistics Canada said.
Economists forecast a 3 percent gain according to the median of
nine responses to a Bloomberg survey. The total value of permits
in February was 8.5 percent lower than the same month a year
earlier, Statistics Canada said.  Permits for  non-residential construction  rose 18.9 percent
to C$2.37 billion in February, with the first gain in four
months leaving the total less than the recent peak of C$3.64
billion in October. Residential permits fell 7.2 percent to
C$3.58 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  