-- Canada February Building Permits Report (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2013-04-09T12:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/canada-february-building-permits-report-text-.html
Following is the text of the
February building permits report from  Statistics Canada .  Canadian municipalities issued building permits worth $6.0
billion in February, a 1.7% increase from January. Higher
construction intentions in the non-residential sector in eight
provinces, led by  Alberta , more than offset a decline in the
residential sector. Despite February’s advance, the total value
of building permits has been trending downwards since late 2012.  With gains in all three components, the value of permits in
the non-residential sector increased 18.9% to $2.4 billion,
following three months of declines. Non-residential construction
intentions rose in every province except New Brunswick and  Nova
Scotia . However, after an upward trend in mid-2012, the total
value of non-residential building permits has been relatively
flat since fall 2012.  Construction intentions in the residential sector fell 7.2%
to $3.6 billion in February, the ninth decrease in 12 months.
Residential construction intentions have been pursuing a
downward trend that began in mid-2012. An increase in
construction intentions for single-family dwellings was not
enough to offset widespread declines in construction intentions
for multi-family dwellings. The value of permits for residential
buildings declined in seven provinces, led by British Columbia
and  New Brunswick .  Non-residential sector: Higher construction intentions in all
components  Construction intentions in the commercial component
increased 13.2% to $1.5 billion, continuing an upward trend that
began in late 2011. Gains in four provinces, led by Alberta and
British Columbia, more than offset losses in the remaining
provinces. The advance was largely attributable to higher
construction intentions for recreational facilities and office
buildings in Alberta, while in British Columbia, the gain came
from retail outlets, hotels and restaurants, and warehouses.  The value of institutional building permits increased 27.8%
to $447 million, following a 29.9% decrease in January.
Construction intentions for institutional buildings have been
trending slightly downwards since the middle of 2012. The
increase in February came from a variety of buildings including
educational institutions, medical facilities and government
buildings. Advances were posted in the  Northwest Territories  and
in six provinces, led by Ontario, followed by Quebec and Alberta.  In the industrial component, the value of permits grew
34.7% to $400 million in February. This was the first increase
in four months and was largely on the strength of industrial
construction intentions in five provinces, led by Alberta,
Ontario and Newfoundland and Labrador. Transportation-related
buildings and manufacturing plants were behind the increase in
Alberta. The gain in Ontario originated from transportation-
related buildings as well as mining and primary industry
buildings. In Newfoundland and Labrador, the gain came
principally from utilities buildings.  Residential sector: Lower intentions for multi-family dwellings  Construction intentions for multi-family dwellings
decreased 19.1% to $1.3 billion, the seventh decrease in eight
months. The decrease came from every province except Prince
 Edward Island . Most of the decline was accounted for by New
Brunswick, British Columbia and Ontario.  In February, municipalities issued $2.3 billion worth of
building permits for single-family dwellings, up 1.1% from
January and the second consecutive monthly increase. Higher
construction intentions in Alberta, Manitoba and Ontario more
than offset decreases in five provinces led by Saskatchewan,
British Columbia, and Newfoundland and Labrador.  Municipalities approved the construction of 14,071 new
dwellings in February, down 12.0% from January. February’s
decrease was largely the result of a 21.0% decline in multi-
family dwellings to 7,537 units. The number of permits issued
for single-family dwellings rose 1.2% to 6,534 units.  Provinces: Alberta posts a large increase  In February, the value of building permits advanced in four
provinces. Alberta posted the largest advance, followed by
 Quebec , Manitoba and Ontario.  In Alberta, construction intentions grew 17.7% following
two consecutive monthly declines. The increase was a result of
higher construction intentions for non-residential buildings,
particularly commercial buildings, and single-family dwellings.
In Quebec, construction intentions advanced 4.1% on the strength
of higher construction intentions for institutional buildings,
single-family dwellings and commercial buildings.  The increase in Ontario resulted from higher intentions for
institutional and industrial buildings. In Manitoba, the advance
came from single-family dwellings, commercial buildings and, to
a lesser degree, industrial buildings.  The largest decrease occurred in New Brunswick, one month
after the total value of permits in the province more than
tripled. The decline was a result of lower construction
intentions in every component led by multi-family dwellings and
institutional buildings. In British Columbia, the value of
permits for multi-family dwellings and institutional buildings
was behind the decline.  Permit values rose in more than half of the census metropolitan
areas  The value of permits increased in 19 of the 34 census
metropolitan areas (CMAs) in February.  Calgary, Edmonton and Kingston recorded the largest
increases. The advance in Calgary was mostly attributable to
commercial buildings and, to a lesser extent, multi-family
dwellings and industrial buildings. Edmonton’s gain stemmed from
commercial and institutional buildings, as well as single-family
dwellings. In Kingston, the increase came particularly from
higher construction intentions for residential, commercial and
institutional buildings.  The largest decreases occurred in Toronto, Moncton and
 Vancouver . In Toronto, the decline originated from residential
dwellings and commercial buildings. Lower intentions for multi-
family dwellings were behind the decrease in Moncton. The
decline in Vancouver came mainly from lower intentions for
multi-family dwellings and institutional buildings. All three
CMAs had posted strong increases in the previous month.  Note to readers  Unless otherwise stated, this release presents seasonally
adjusted data, which facilitates comparisons by removing the
effects of seasonal variations. For more information on seasonal
adjustment, see Seasonal adjustment and identifying economic
trends ( http://www5.statcan.gc.ca/bsolc/olc-cel/colc -
cel?catno=11-010-X201000311141&amp;lang=fra) .  The Building Permits Survey covers 2,400 municipalities
representing 95% of the population. It provides an early
indication of building activity.  The communities representing the other 5% of the population
are very small, and their levels of building activity have
little impact on the total for the entire population.  The value of planned construction activities shown in this
release excludes engineering projects (for example, waterworks,
sewers or culverts) and land.  For the purpose of this release, the census metropolitan
area of Ottawa-Gatineau (Ontario/Quebec) is divided into two
areas: Gatineau part and Ottawa part.  Revision  Data for the current reference month are subject to
revision based on late responses. Data have been revised for the
previous month.  The trend-cycle estimates have been added on the charts as
a complement to the seasonally adjusted series. Both the
seasonally adjusted and the trend-cycle estimates are subject to
revision as additional observations become available. These
revisions could be large and even lead to a reversal of movement,
especially at the end of the series. The higher variability
associated with the trend-cycle estimates is indicated with a
dotted line on the chart.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  