-- Carbon Drops as Parliament Group Reaffirms Rejection of Glut Fix
-- B y   A l e s s a n d r o   V i t e l l i
-- 2013-04-09T16:59:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/carbon-drops-as-parliament-group-reaffirms-rejection-of-glut-fix.html
European Union carbon permits
tumbled the most in six weeks after the biggest political group
in the European Parliament reaffirmed its opposition to plans to
temporarily withhold supply from the market.  The December futures contract dropped as much as 10 percent
to 4.66 euros ($6.10) a metric ton on London’s ICE Futures
Europe exchange after Eija-Riitta Korhola, the lead member of
the European People’s Party on the backloading issue, said that
the “vast majority” of the group’s lawmakers opposed the plan
in a preliminary vote by a working group today.  The benchmark closed 8.1 percent lower at 4.78 euros, the
lowest since March 26. Volume for the December future more than
doubled from yesterday to reach more than 29 million tons, the
most since March 21, according to ICE Futures data.  “The market responded to well-known information which was
presented just one week ahead of the vote,” Milan Hudak, an
analyst in  Prague  at Virtuse Energy sro, said by e-mail.
“Though the reaction was very overdone, this was a serious blow
when prices were expected to rise.”  The European Parliament is scheduled to discuss during a
plenary meeting on April 15 a proposal by the European
Commission to enable delaying the sale of 900 million permits in
an effort to boost the price of allowances. A vote on the plan
is scheduled to be held April 16, according to the Parliament’s
preliminary agenda.  The  European People’s Party  holds 270 of the 754 seats in
the assembly. Today’s vote in the party’s working group had 51
votes in favor of rejecting the Commission’s plan, seven
against, and as many as seven abstentions, Korhola said on her
Twitter Inc. account.  Matthew Gray, an analyst in  London  at Jefferies Group Inc.,
said Korhola’s postings created unnecessary volatility in the
market in the lead-up to the parliament’s decision.  “The insensitivity of politicians is severely compromising
the functionality of this market,” Gray said by e-mail.  United Nations offsets for December fell 2 euro cents to 41
euro cents a ton.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alessandro Vitelli in London at 
 avitelli1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  