-- Cargill Third Quarter Profit Drops 42% as Drought Reduced Crops
-- B y   S h r u t i   D a t e   S i n g h
-- 2013-04-09T13:30:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/cargill-third-quarter-profit-drops-42-as-drought-reduced-crops.html
Cargill Inc., the largest closely
held U.S. company, said fiscal third-quarter profit dropped 42
percent as the worst U.S. drought since the 1930s reduced
supplies of crops and raised feed costs.  Net income fell to $445 million in the three months through
February from $766 million a year earlier, the Minneapolis-based
company said today in a statement. Sales increased 1 percent to
$32.2 billion, Cargill said.  “In North America, our meat processing businesses were
pressured by the drought-related high cost of feed
ingredients,” Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Greg Page
said in the statement.  Earnings in the agriculture-services unit fell due to the
“prolonged impact of last year’s drought-reduced crops in North
America,” Cargill said. Animal-nutrition profits were affected
by  Venezuela ’s currency devaluation in February and “difficult
economic conditions” in meat and dairy production in several
regions, the company said.  Profit in the meat business was hurt in North America by
higher feeding costs, tight cattle supplies and an oversupplied
turkey market, the company said. Cargill idled its Plainview,
Texas, beef-processing plant in February after the size of the
cattle herd fell to a 60-year low and drought increased feed
costs.  Cargill and competitors  Archer-Daniels-Midland Co. (ADM) , the
world’s largest corn processor, and  Tyson Foods Inc. (TSN) , the
largest U.S. meat processor, have grappled with smaller and more
expensive supplies of corn and soybeans.  While export demand for U.S. soybeans and soybean meal was
strong ahead of South America’s harvest, weather delays and
logistical challenges in  Brazil  “significantly reduced soybean
and soybean product exports below expectations,” the company
said today.  Forbes ranked Cargill the largest closely held U.S. company
by revenue in a  2012 survey .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shruti Date Singh in Chicago at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  