-- CFTC Said Probing ICAP on Swap Price Allegations: Credit Markets
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2013-04-09T17:04:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/cftc-said-probing-icap-on-swap-price-allegations-credit-markets.html
ICAP Plc (IAP)  brokers and as many as 15
Wall Street banks are being probed by the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission for possible manipulation of interest-rate
swap prices used as a benchmark in the $379 trillion market.  The CFTC has issued subpoenas to about a dozen current and
former employees at ICAP’s Jersey City, New Jersey, swaps-
brokering group, nicknamed “Treasure Island” because of the
size of the commissions it earns, said three people familiar
with the investigation. Dealers including  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  that contribute prices used to set the
daily swap rates also have been subpoenaed, two people familiar
with the matter said.  The so-called  ISDAfix  prices and intraday trading levels
that ICAP displays on an electronic screen known as 19901 are
used by everyone from corporate treasurers to money managers to
gauge wholesale funding costs. The Federal Reserve includes the
rates in a  daily report  on money markets, and they’re used to
set daily values for much of the global rate-swaps market.  “That screen is critical,” said David Kelly, director of
financial engineering at Calypso Technology Inc. in New York,
who helped design the underlying analytics of the 19901 screen
in the early 2000s. “That screen makes or breaks a lot of
profit and loss, so clearly there’s a lot of opportunity for
influence.”  Libor Connection  The CFTC is investigating whether ICAP brokers colluded
with dealers who stand to profit from inaccurate quotes,
including failing to update published prices after trades occur,
one of the people said.  The U.S. regulator is probing the swaps trading as it works
with European counterparts in the rate-rigging scandal
surrounding the London interbank offered rate. ICAP brokers in
London have passed on requests from dealers asking rate-setters
at rival banks to make favorable submissions, e-mails released
as part of the European probe show. UBS AG, Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc and  Barclays Plc (BARC)  have paid $2.6 billion in
fines for rigging Libor rates.  Stephanie Allen, a CFTC spokeswoman, said the commission
doesn’t comment on enforcement issues. ICAP said in a statement
it maintains policies prohibiting the alleged behavior and is
cooperating with the CFTC’s wider inquiry.  The stock  fell as
much as 4.5 percent before ending the day in London up 1.1
percent to 295.9 pence.  ‘Treasure Island’  ICAP, the biggest broker of  interest-rate swaps  between
banks, is paid commissions based on the size of the trades it
matches. On average, $1.4 trillion of transactions were traded
daily on ICAP’s systems in 2012, the company said in its annual
report.  Like Libor, which is the rate at which banks say they would
lend to each other, ISDAfix is derived from a process where 15
banks submit bids and offers for swaps in various currencies and
denominations, according to the website of the International
Swaps & Derivatives Association, which created the rate in 1998
with the predecessors of Thomson Reuters Corp. and ICAP.  The rates are distributed by Thomson Reuters, Telekurs and
Bloomberg LP, the parent company of Bloomberg News, according to
the ISDA website.  The contributors to ISDAfix are  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,
Barclays, BNP Paribas SA, Citigroup Inc.,  Credit Suisse Group
AG (CSGN) , Deutsche Bank, Goldman Sachs,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411) ,  Morgan Stanley (MS) ,  Nomura
Holdings Inc. (8604) , Royal Bank of Scotland, UBS and  Wells Fargo &
Co. (WFC) ,  according  to ISDA.  Representatives at the banks declined to comment.  ISDA Subpoena  ISDA also has received a subpoena from the CFTC related to
the swaps benchmark and has provided information to the
regulator, Lauren Dobbs, a spokeswoman for the New York-based
industry and lobbying group said in an e-mailed statement. “We
are cooperating fully,” she said.  Rate swaps, which investors and companies use to exchange
fixed- and floating-rate obligations, involve a series of
payments that are determined by rising or falling interest costs
over the lifetime of the contract. They last as many as 30 years
and are denominated in notional amounts that are used to
calculate payments and don’t represent money that has changed
hands.  Manual Prices  One potential source of price manipulation being probed by
the CFTC is tied to ICAP brokers not updating the rate-swap
price on the 19901 screen after they facilitate a trade between
two banks, according to one of the people, who asked not to be
identified because the matter is private, and a former ICAP
broker in the Jersey City rate-swaps group.  ICAP enters those prices manually onto the screen, and
dealers tell the brokers not to put trades into the system until
all their business in a transaction is done, which skews current
market prices, according to the former broker, who said he
witnessed such activity first-hand.  During his time working on 19901, Kelly said he witnessed
dealers pressuring brokers to move the screen price after a
trade, though no broker ever did.  “There can be disagreements about the timing of the
movement of the screen, which can be misconstrued as
manipulation,” he said. Dealers “threatened to pull their
business, they threatened to do whatever. The brokers in a tough
spot, do they delay by a few seconds? They make it very hard on
the brokers.”  Borrowing Benchmark  About 6,000 companies and financial firms subscribe to the
prices published on the 19901 screen, according to ICAP. Those
values are accepted as a legal settlement price by which swaps
traders can terminate contracts or to mark the value of
positions, according to ISDA.  Corporations also use 19901 to see where current rate swaps
are trading relative to government benchmarks, and then add in
their cost of borrowing based on their credit rating to see
where they would be able to issue bonds, Kelly said.  Elsewhere in credit markets, a benchmark gauge of U.S.
corporate credit risk held at about the lowest since a new
version of the index started trading three weeks ago.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, fell 0.1
basis point to 85.4 basis points as of 12:37 p.m. in New York,
the lowest since Series 20 of the index started trading March
20, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  Europe Benchmark  In London, the  Markit iTraxx Europe  index tied to 125
companies with investment-grade ratings fell 1.1 to 114.7, the
lowest since March 18, Bloomberg prices show.  Credit swaps typically fall as investor confidence improves
and rise as it deteriorates. Contracts pay the buyer face value
if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the value of
the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a
swap protecting $10 million of debt.  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
debt market stress, declined 0.23 basis point to 14.8 basis
points. The measure narrows when investors favor assets such as
corporate bonds and widens when they seek the perceived safety
of government securities.  Bonds of Charlotte, North Carolina-based  Bank of America 
are the most actively traded dollar-denominated corporate
securities by dealers today, accounting for 5 percent of the
volume of dealer trades of $1 million or more, according to
Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 