-- Check Here to Tip Taxi Drivers or Save for 401(k)
-- B y   C a s s   R .   S u n s t e i n
-- 2013-04-09T22:00:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/check-here-to-tip-taxi-drivers-or-save-for-401-k-.html
If you have recently been in a  taxi 
in New York City, you may have noticed a credit-card
touchscreen, which suggests three possible tips. For rides of
more than $15, the suggested amounts are usually 20 percent, 25
percent or 30 percent. You can give a larger tip, a smaller tip
or no tip at all, but it’s easiest just to touch one of the
three conspicuous options.  The touchscreen makes everything simpler. It also raises an
intriguing question: Do the suggestions affect the average tip?
Behavioral economists would offer a clear prediction: Because
people don’t like to do even a little bit of extra work, the
suggestions will matter a lot, and the average tip will increase
significantly.  The prediction has turned out to be right, with one
important qualification: There’s a  backlash  effect, with more
customers giving no tip at all. This natural experiment
illuminates human behavior in a lot of diverse settings, and it
has implications for business and for public policy as well.  The instructive  study  has been done by Kareem Haggag of the
University of Chicago and Giovanni Paci of Columbia University,
who have compiled data on more than 13 million New York taxi
rides. Using the standard social-science jargon, Haggag and Paci
describe the suggested percentages as “defaults,” in the sense
that they establish what customers will do if they don’t exert
extra effort.  Default Test  To test the effect of the  defaults , they examine two data
sets. First, some companies provide somewhat lower defaults of
15 percent, 20 percent and 25 percent. Do people tip less when
presented with these lower defaults? Second, companies with the
higher defaults typically provide lower default percentages for
smaller fares (less than $15). Do those lower percentages reduce
tips?  The main finding is that the higher defaults lead to a
significant increase in tips -- by an average of more than 10
percent. If a driver makes $6,000 in tips in a year, the higher
defaults produce a nice $600 raise -- and a big increase in
total revenue for New York City taxi drivers as a whole.  Why, exactly, do the defaults matter? Haggag and Paci
 explore  three explanations. The first is that people don’t want
to make the effort to do any calculation. They say “yeah,
whatever,” and simply pick one of the three offered percentages
(often the middle one).  The second explanation is that customers think the defaults
establish the social norm. Many people want to give the right
amount, fitting with what other people typically do; the
defaults tell them what that is. The third explanation is that
the amount imposes a kind of psychological pressure. Customers
might think that if they go below the suggested percentages,
they are expressing dissatisfaction with the ride.  Haggag and Paci suggest that all of these explanations are
plausible, but their data don’t allow the authors to make a
clear choice among them. Each of the explanations probably plays
a role.  Unfortunately for drivers, the relatively high defaults
produce a 1.7 percentage-point increase in the probability of a
tip of zero. That backlash effect isn’t huge, and drivers are
still way ahead on balance. (The 10 percent average increase
includes the zero tips.) But tips of zero aren’t exactly
welcome. It is reasonable to speculate that if the defaults were
increased, the no-tip rides would increase as well.  These findings have implications well beyond the area of
tipping behavior. We are in the midst of an explosion of
 research  on the power of default rules. In the area of savings,
defaults are crucial.  Privacy Decision  When workers are asked whether they want to enroll in
401(k) plans, the number of employees who do so is relatively
low, certainly in the early years of employment. Recently, a
number of companies have changed the default to automatic
enrollment. The results are clear: Many more workers end up
 enrolled  and are thus put in a position to retire with far
greater savings.  Or consider this question, now attracting a lot of
attention in the U.S. and  Europe : How much privacy does any of
us have online? The answer may well be a function of the default
rule. Suppose that a website says your personal information
won’t be shared with anyone unless you click on a button to
allow it. Now suppose instead that the same website says your
personal information will be shared with the entire world unless
you click on a button to forbid it. Will the results be the
same?  Far from it. If people are given a privacy-protective
default rule and asked whether they want to shift and opt into
information sharing, a lot of them will respond with some
version of “No, you’ve got to be kidding.” In that case, their
information won’t be shared. If, by contrast, people are given
an information-sharing default rule and asked whether they want
to opt into privacy protection, a lot of them will just stick
with the default, especially if they have to think a little bit
and read something complicated in order to switch. In that case,
their information will be shared.  The broadest lesson is that for better or for worse,
default rules and settings have a great deal of power.
Businesses and governments need to think hard about them. Have
any doubts? Just ask New York’s cab drivers.  (Cass R. Sunstein, the Robert Walmsley University
Professor at Harvard Law School, is a Bloomberg View columnist.
He is the former administrator of the White House Office of
Information and Regulatory Affairs, the co-author of “Nudge” and
author of “Simpler: The Future of Government,” just published by
Simon and Shuster. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Cass R. Sunstein at  csunstei@law.harvard.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net  