-- China Three-Year Swaps Reach One-Month Low as Inflation Eases
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2013-04-09T03:11:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/china-three-year-swaps-reach-one-month-low-as-inflation-eases.html
China ’s three-year  interest-rate
swaps  fell to the lowest level in more than a month after
inflation eased from a 10-month high.  The consumer-price index climbed 2.1 percent in March from
a year earlier, official data showed today. That compares with
the 2.5 percent median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 38
economists and a 3.2 percent gain in February. The swaps have
declined six basis points and the  Shanghai  composite index of
shares lost 0.7 percent this month as investors sought safety in
fixed-income securities on concern a new strain of bird flu will
cause an epidemic and as tensions on the Korean peninsula rise.  “Given the lower than expected CPI outcome, short-end
rates should generally be capped,” said  Frances Cheung , a Hong
Kong-based strategist at Credit Agricole CIB. “Flows have been
diverted to the bond market, partly from equities which are
suffering from the bird flu and geopolitics.”  The offshore three-year swap contract, the fixed cost
needed to receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate,
touched 3.37 percent, the lowest level since Feb. 28, and was
little changed at 3.38 percent as of 10:41 a.m. in Shanghai,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The  seven-day repurchase rate , which measures interbank
funding availability, advanced two basis points to 3.31 percent
in Shanghai, according to a weighted average compiled by the
National Interbank Funding Center.  The People’s Bank of China will conduct 30 billion  yuan 
($4.8 billion) of 28-day repurchase contract operations today,
according to a trader at a primary dealer required to bid at the
auctions.  Chinese President Xi Jinping said on April 7 that no
country should be allowed to instigate regional chaos after
North Korea’s mounting threats to attack the U.S. and South
Korea included warnings of pre-emptive nuclear strikes.  The yield on the 3.52 percent government notes due February
2023 fell five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 3.43
percent, according to the National Interbank Funding Center.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  