-- China’s Stocks Rise Most in 2 Weeks After Inflation Slows
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2013-04-09T07:26:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/china-s-stock-index-futures-rise-ahead-of-march-inflation-data.html
China’s stocks  rose, driving the
benchmark index to its biggest gain in two weeks, as slower-
than-estimated inflation eased pressure on policy makers to
tighten monetary policy.  Consumer-discretionary shares advanced the most among
industry groups after SAIC Motor Corp., the biggest Chinese
automaker, reported higher sales.  TCL Corp. (000100) , a television maker,
advanced to the highest level in 21 months after the company
estimated first-quarter profit may have jumped eightfold. Ping
An Insurance (Group) Co. led gains for financial shares as the
Shanghai Securities News said the insurer’s premium income rose.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  added 0.6 percent to 2,225.78
at the close, the most since March 20. The  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  rose
0.7 percent to 2,489.43. The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index
surged 2.2 percent. Consumer prices rose 2.1 percent in March,
the National Bureau of Statistics said, compared with the 2.5
percent median estimate of 38 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “CPI is lower than expected and stocks are recovering
after a big decline yesterday as worries about the bird flu and
property measures are being priced in,” Huang Cendong, an
analyst at Tebon Securities Co., said in  Shanghai . “Stocks are
reaching a bottom and I would expect a proper rally soon.”  The Shanghai index has fallen 8.6 percent from a Feb. 6
high amid concern steps to cool  property  prices will drag on
economic growth. Valuations have dropped to 9.1 times projected
12-month earnings, the lowest level since Dec. 13 and less than
the seven-year average of 15.8,  data  compiled by Bloomberg show.  Inflation Data  Today’s economic report also showed producer prices fell
1.9 percent from a year earlier, the 13th straight decline,
compared with the median estimate of a 1.9 percent drop in a
Bloomberg survey of 32 economists. Food costs rose 2.7 percent
in March from a year earlier, less than half of February’s 6
percent pace.  “Today’s reading will definitely help alleviate the
inflation and monetary tightening concerns” that were triggered
by the jump in February inflation, Bank of America Corp.
economist Ting Lu wrote in a report today. He said the February
inflation rate of 3.2 percent was distorted by the Lunar new
year, while a government crackdown on excessive consumption was
also helping to contain consumer-price gains.  Bloomberg surveys last month showed 14 of 33 analysts
forecast an increase in the benchmark one-year lending rate this
year, while two out of 22 respondents said the central bank
would raise lenders’ reserve-requirement ratio.  Consumer Stocks  China  is targeting inflation of about 3.5 percent this
year, then-Premier Wen Jiabao said in his final annual report to
the legislature on March 5, lowering the goal from last year’s 4
percent. Slowing price gains are a boost for Premier Li Keqiang
as he seeks to sustain a rebound from the economy’s weakest
annual expansion in 13 years. The economy will expand 8.2
percent this year and 8 percent in 2014, the Asian Development
Bank said in a report today.  A gauge of  consumer-discretionary  companies in the CSI 300
rose 1.2 percent, the most among 10 industry groups. SAIC
advanced 4.1 percent to 15.34 yuan after saying March vehicle
sales rose 17.4 percent from a year earlier. TCL gained 2.6
percent to 2.72  yuan . The company said first-quarter profit may
have risen between 670 percent and 710 percent from a year ago.  Ping An, the second-biggest insurer, rose 2.9 percent to
41.14 yuan. The company’s first-quarter premium income climbed 8
percent, the Shanghai Securities News reported, citing documents
obtained from unidentified people. China Life Insurance Co., the
largest insurer, added 1.8 percent to 17.46 yuan.  Trade Outlook  Trade data scheduled for tomorrow will probably show
exports climbed 11.7 percent last month from a year ago. Exports
rose 21.8 percent in February from a year ago, customs bureau
data showed on March 8, beating the median estimate of 8.1
percent in a Bloomberg News survey.  China’s unprecedented run of better-than-forecast export
growth has spurred deeper skepticism of the data at banks
including Goldman Sachs Group Inc., casting doubt on the
strength of the recovery.  Gains in overseas shipments exceeded forecasts by at least
7.5 percentage points in December, January and February, the
first time that’s happened in three straight months in the eight
years Bloomberg has compiled analyst estimates for the data.  The Shanghai Composite fell to the lowest level since Dec.
27 yesterday on concern the H7N9 bird flu outbreak will hurt the
nation’s economic recovery. The death toll from the influenza
rose to seven today, while the infection tally increased to 24.  Drugmakers Fall  Consumers should avoid markets where poultry is butchered
as authorities increase monitoring for the new influenza strain,
Feng Zijian, head of emergency response at the Chinese Center
for Disease Control and Prevention, said in Beijing.  A gauge of  health-care  stocks in the CSI 300 fell 1.5
percent, the most among 10 industry groups. Hualan Biological
slid 5.2 percent to 24.52 yuan. There is “no need to panic”
over the bird flu as the World Health Organization has not found
any evidence of virus transmission between humans as in the case
of SARS, or severe acute respiratory syndrome, in 2003, Fortune
CLSA Securities analysts wrote in a report today.  The Shanghai gauge’s trading volume was 22 percent lower
than the 30-day average today, while 10-day  volatility  jumped to
the highest level since January, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese companies in the U.S. rose 0.4 percent in New York, as
solar manufacturers rallied on a report that billionaire  Warren
Buffett  may be interested in buying Suntech Power Holdings Co.
after the company was forced into bankruptcy.  Suntech jumped as much as 28 percent after a news service
owned by Hong Kong Economic Times said Buffett’s MidAmerican
Energy Holdings Co. may buy the solar panel maker, citing an
unidentified person.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  