-- China Surging Wages Threaten Economy’s Competitiveness, ADB Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-04-09T08:41:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/china-surging-wages-threaten-economy-s-competitiveness-adb-says.html
China’s surging wages and other
costs are showing signs of undermining the competitiveness of
the nation’s economy, threatening its growth potential, the
 Asian Development Bank  said.  Average inflation-adjusted wages have more than tripled in
a decade and non-wage costs for procedures such as hiring and
firing have risen since the introduction of a 2008 labor law,
the ADB said in a report published today.  The labor market is being squeezed across the nation as the
pool of working-age people shrank last year. At stake is China’s
position as the world’s biggest producer of low-cost goods,
while competitors from  Vietnam  to  Mexico  stand to gain as
investors seek to relocate to countries that have cheaper labor
or are closer to big markets in the U.S. and  Europe .  “Rapid aging of the population is taking its toll on the
labor market,” Hamid L. Sharif, the ADB’s country director for
 China , said at a press briefing in Beijing. “Unless compensated
by rising labor productivity, high wages would erode the
economy’s competitiveness and growth potential, hampering
government development plans.”  The discussion of wages was part of a broader report on the
outlook for economies across  Asia . The ADB projected economic
 growth  of 8.2 percent this year for China, up from 7.8 percent
in 2012, a 13-year low.  To prevent further harm to competitiveness China must
ensure that increases in minimum wages don’t outpace gains in
productivity, which should be fostered through incentives for
companies to invest in new technologies, the ADB said.  Productivity Level  China’s labor productivity has grown quickly even as it
remains less than 10 percent of the level in  Singapore  and the
U.S., and about 20 percent of  South Korea ’s rate, Niny Khor, a
Beijing-based economist for the ADB, said at the briefing.  Rising wages and other costs are being exacerbated by
restrictions on workers’ mobility through the household
registration system known as hukou, the ADB said.  “Key to reducing labor rigidity is reforming the hukou
system,” the report said. “Steps are needed to reduce
migration and transaction costs in the labor market.”  Changes in China’s labor market have occurred at a speed
“unprecedented in history,” the report said. In 1990, more
than 80 percent of urban workers were employed by state
enterprises or collectives while by 2010 that fell to 45
percent, the ADB said.  China’s pool of 15- to 39-year-olds, which supplies the
bulk of workers for industry, construction and services, fell to
525 million last year from 557 million five years earlier,
according to data compiled by  Bloomberg News  from the U.S.
Census Bureau’s international population  database . The number
employed in industry rose to 147 million from 117 million in the
five years through September.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Kevin Hamlin in Beijing at 
 khamlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  