-- Cisco SVP McCool to Be Succeeded by Wilburn
-- B y   P e t e r   B u r r o w s
-- 2013-04-09T20:28:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/cisco-svp-mccool-to-be-succeeded-by-wilburn.html
Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  executive John McCool, a senior vice president who led sales of corporate
mobile and networking gear, is departing and will be replaced by
Tom Wilburn.  A 17-year veteran of Cisco, McCool is leaving his position
as chief technology officer of the global enterprise segment,
 San Jose , California-based Cisco said today in an e-mailed
statement. Wilburn, who has been at Cisco eight years, has
experience in mobility, switching and routing, the company said.  Wilburn takes charge of a unit responsible for a third of
revenue as Chief Executive Officer  John Chambers  works to fend
of competition from software startups selling networking
technology. McCool may end up leading one of Cisco’s software
rivals, according to  Brent Bracelin , an analyst at Pacific Crest
Securities.  “Given all the innovation happening in networking these
days, I’m sure there’s lots of opportunity for a person like
John,” Bracelin said. “We’re seeing more departures like this
from big incumbent technology companies.”  McCool’s exit adds to a list of top managers who have left
Cisco in recent years. Paul Mountford, a senior vice president
who ran the network-equipment maker’s global sales to
businesses, exited in August amid a restructuring aimed at
reducing market-share losses and cutting costs.  Executive Exits  Ned Hooper, who ran mergers and acquisitions, resigned in
June, a year after his second-in-command, Charles Carmel, left.
Former Senior Vice President Tony Bates left to run Skype
Technologies SA in 2010.  McCool didn’t immediately respond to requests for comment.
David McCulloch, a Cisco spokesman, declined to comment on why
McCool left or where he would go next.  Cisco promoted Scott Lovett to head of sales for security
products, previously part of McCool’s duties, McCulloch said.  A long-time engineering manager, McCool designed networking
gear for  Steve Jobs ’s NeXT Computer in the early 1990s, before
joining Cisco in 1996 via its acquisition of Granite Systems,
according to Cisco’s website.  McCool helped grow Cisco’s Catalyst line of switches into a
multi-billion dollar business, and oversaw development and sales
of gear designed specifically for large data centers from 2008
to 2011. That business grew from $5 million to more than $1
billion on his watch, Cisco said.  Cisco’s shares rose 1.9 percent to $20.97 at the close in
 New York , for the biggest gain in five weeks. The stock has
advanced 6.7 percent this year, compared with a 10 percent gain
for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Burrows in  San Francisco  at 
 pburrows@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  