-- Citigroup’s Forese Said to Revamp Transaction Services
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2013-04-09T15:39:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/citigroup-s-forese-said-to-transfer-transaction-services-chiefs.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s Francesco Vanni d’Archirafi will step down as head of transaction services and
Julie Monaco will join the investment bank as the firm overhauls
management, a person with knowledge of the matter said.  Monaco, who ran transaction services in  North America , will
lead the public sector group for the investment bank and won’t
be replaced, said the person, who requested anonymity because
the move hasn’t been announced. She replaces Zubaid Ahmad, who
stays to concentrate on sovereign wealth funds, the person said.
Vanni d’Archirafi will take an unspecified new role, according
to an internal memo obtained by  Bloomberg News .  Chief Executive Officer  Michael Corbat  and his head of
institutional businesses Jamie Forese are reshaping transaction
services, which had more revenue in 2012 than the New York-based
lender’s investment bank, equities-trading and private bank
units combined. Corbat promoted Forese to co-president in
January.  “This new alignment will not only prove to be a more
efficient operating model, but will also allow us to deliver our
full capabilities to our target client base far more
effectively,” Forese said in the memo.  Vanni d’Archirafi, Monaco and Ahmad didn’t respond to
inquiries about the changes, and Danielle Romero-Apsilos, a
spokeswoman for the company, said Citigroup had no comment. The
firm ranks third by assets among U.S. lenders. The Wall Street
Journal reported elements of the reorganization earlier today.  Forese’s Promotion  Corbat named Forese head of Citigroup’s institutional
clients group in January, months after replacing  Vikram Pandit 
as CEO of the bank, the third-biggest in the U.S. The move
placed Forese atop transaction services for the first time,
adding to his role as head of trading and  investment banking .  Vanni d’Archirafi, 53, who began his career with Citigroup
in 1983, took over the division in  April 2009  and ran one of the
firm’s biggest revenue centers. Sales were $10.9 billion in
2012, about 15 percent of the company’s total. The unit made a
$3.5 billion  profit for the year , while the entire bank posted
net income of $7.5 billion.  The business works with corporate and public-sector
customers and products including cash management, trade finance
and custodian services. The unit has $13.2 trillion of assets
under custody and it processes more than $3 trillion of
transactions each day, according to Citigroup’s  website .  Job Eliminated  The new structure eliminates Vanni d’Archirafi’s position.
The heads of the two divisions that make up transaction services
-- securities and fund services head Neeraj Sahai and Naveed Sultan, head of treasury and trade solutions -- will report
directly to Forese, according to the memo.  Monaco joined Citigroup from  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  in 2007,
according to her  LinkedIn page . She previously worked for
Deutsche Bank AG and graduated with a master’s degree in
business administration from  New York University , the profile
shows. In her new role as head of the public sector group, she
will report to Raymond J. McGuire, head of the bank’s advisory
operations.  As head of the transaction services business in North
America, she led a team responsible for “the banking needs of
more than 8,000 corporations, financial institutions and PSG
clients,” McGuire said in another internal memorandum obtained
by Bloomberg News. “Julie has more than 26 years of experience
in banking and brings a wealth of expertise to our franchise.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donal Griffin in  New York  at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  