-- CNPC Plans Dollar Bonds as Borrowing Costs Drop to Six-Week Low
-- B y   T a n y a   A n g e r e r   a n d   A n u r a g   J o s h i
-- 2013-04-09T04:34:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/cnpc-plans-dollar-bonds-as-borrowing-costs-drop-to-six-week-low.html
China National Petroleum Corp., the
country’s largest oil producer and owner of the nation’s biggest
energy producer, is marketing U.S. dollar-denominated notes as
borrowing costs fall to an almost six-week low. Bond risk in the
Asia-Pacific region declined.  CNPC General Capital Ltd., a unit of CNPC, is offering
three-year securities at a spread of about 135 basis points more
than Treasuries, five-year notes at about 160 basis points and
10-year bonds at about 195 basis points, a person familiar with
the matter said. Average yields on dollar notes dropped three
basis points to  4.26 percent  yesterday, the least since Feb. 27,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes.  Republic of  Indonesia , Bank of Ceylon and CIFI Holdings
Group Co., a Chinese developer, sold $3.8 billion of notes
denominated in the U.S. currency yesterday, ending a lull in
issuance which began March 28, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Other borrowers in the region planning sales include
China Oil & Gas Group Ltd.,  Texhong Textile Group Ltd. (2678)  and  South
Korea ’s government.  “There is a huge pipeline,” said Brayan Lai, a Singapore-
based analyst in emerging-market credit trading at Jefferies
Group LLC. “It’s the start of the quarter and there’s cash to
be put to work” he said, adding that policy banks and state-
owned companies could be among those seeking to raise funds.  Dollar Returns  Dollar notes sold by Chinese borrowers have returned 12.86
percent in the past year, according to HSBC Holdings Plc
indexes. That compares with 13.13 percent for securities in
 India , 7.85 percent for debt in Indonesia and 9.71 percent for
dollar bonds in the region as a whole, the data show.  CNPC last sold dollar bonds in April last year when it
raised $1.15 billion in a two-part issue, Bloomberg data show.
The Beijing-based company has about $80 billion of bonds and
loans outstanding, the data show.  The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside  Japan  dropped 2.5 basis points to 118 basis
points as of 8:22 a.m. in  Hong Kong , Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc prices show. The gauge is set for its lowest close
since March 25, according to data provider CMA.  The Markit iTraxx Japan index declined 1.5 basis points to
89 as of 9:18 a.m. in  Tokyo , according to Citigroup Inc. prices.
The benchmark last closed lower in April 2010, according to CMA,
which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by
dealers in the private market.  The Markit iTraxx Australia index slid 2 basis points to
115 basis points as of 10:55 a.m. in Sydney, according to
National Australia Bank Ltd. prices. The measure is on track for
its lowest close since the current series of the index started
trading on March 20, according to CMA.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for insuring
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
 credit quality . A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tanya Angerer in Singapore at 
 tangerer@bloomberg.net ;
Anurag Joshi in Mumbai at 
 ajoshi53@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  