-- Colombian Peso Strengthens to Three-Week High on Tax Inflows
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2013-04-09T14:23:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/colombian-peso-strengthens-to-three-week-high-on-tax-inflows.html
Colombia ’s peso rose to a three-week
high as companies repatriated dollars to pay taxes and slowing
inflation in  China  boosted demand for higher-yielding assets.  The peso touched 1,811.05 per dollar in intraday trading,
the strongest since March 20. It was up 0.2 percent at 1,812.95
at 9:11 a.m. in Bogota. The currency had dropped 2.5 percent
this year.  Global stocks rose and oil rallied after a report from
China showed inflation eased last month from a 10-month high,
reducing pressure on policy makers to tighten credit in the
Asian nation as the economy recovers. Optimism about peace talks
with the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, or FARC, the
country’s biggest rebel group, is also helping increase demand
for the local currency, according to Andres Munoz, the head
currency trader in Bogota at Corp. Financiera Colombiana.  “Global markets are much calmer today and you have the
inflows from big companies that are also pressuring gains in the
peso,” Munoz said in a phone interview. “Things are looking on
the positive side regarding the peace talks so all in all you
have investors getting rid of their long dollar positions.”  A long is a bet an asset will gain value. Munoz forecasts
the peso will gain beyond 1,800 within the next two weeks.  President  Juan Manuel Santos  said in a post on Twitter
yesterday that “the opportunity to end the conflict, although
there is a long way to go, I see it getting closer.” The
government is meeting with members of the FARC in Cuba to seek
an end to the five-decade-old conflict.  Yields on Colombia’s peso bonds maturing in 2024 were
little changed at 4.95 percent, according to the central bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  