-- Copper Futures Advance as Chinese Inflation Eases Policy Concern
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r   a n d   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2013-04-09T18:00:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/copper-and-zinc-rise-as-china-inflation-eases-tightening-concern.html
Copper rose the most since January,
leading industrial metals higher after weaker-than-estimated
Chinese inflation eased concerns that the government will
tighten monetary policy to slow growth.  Consumer prices increased 2.1 percent in March from a year
earlier, China’s statistics bureau said today. That compares
with the 2.5 percent median estimate of analysts surveyed by
 Bloomberg News . The nation is the world’s biggest user of
copper. Metal prices also climbed after aluminum producer  Alcoa
Inc. (AA) ’s first-quarter earnings exceeded analysts’ estimates.  “The inflation data alleviated concerns that China would
continue tightening monetary policy, and that’s positive for
commodities,”  David Meger , the director of metal trading at
Vision Financial Markets in Chicago, said in a telephone
interview. “Copper in particular is a beneficiary.”  On the London Metal Exchange, copper for delivery in three
months climbed 2.4 percent to $7,630 a metric ton ($3.46 a
pound) at 5:50 p.m., the biggest increase since Jan. 2.  In  New York , copper futures for delivery in May added 2.1
percent to settle at $3.4415 a pound on the Comex, the biggest
gain since Jan. 2.  Copper miners in Chile, the world’s largest producer, began
a 24-hour nationwide strike today to push for greater  job
security . Exports were curbed by a three-week labor stoppage
that ended April 5 by port workers in the country.  Aluminum for delivery in three months on the LME rose 1.5
percent to $1,919 a ton. Alcoa said yesterday that net income
excluding a tax benefit and other one-time items was 11 cents a
share, beating the 8-cent average of 18 estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. Demand for the lightweight metal in aircraft and cars
improved, the company said.  Zinc advanced as much as 1.8 percent to $1,926.50 a ton in
 London , the highest since March 26. Lead, tin and nickel also
gained.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Richter in New York at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net ;
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  