-- Corn Boom Goes Bust With U.S. Sales in Record Drop: Commodities
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2013-04-09T19:31:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/corn-boom-goes-bust-with-u-s-sales-in-record-drop-commodities.html
The record collapse in U.S. corn
exports and shrinking domestic demand are leaving more grain in
silos, spurring a  bear market  just eight months after drought
drove prices to an all-time high.  Stockpiles will be 836 million bushels (21.2 million metric
tons) on Aug. 31, or 32 percent more than the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture  forecast last month, according to the average of 35
analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Export sales from the
world’s largest grower and shipper fell 54 percent in the year
that began Sept. 1, heading for the biggest annual drop in
government data that starts in 1960.  Surging grain costs last year forced Cargill Inc. and other
meat producers to close plants and ethanol makers including
 Valero Energy Corp. (VLO)  to shut distilleries, easing demand for corn
supplies curbed by the worst drought since the 1930s. The USDA
says output will rebound as farmers plant the most acres in 77
years. Futures fell 23 percent from their peak in August,
joining wheat and soybeans in bear markets as global food costs
tracked by the  United Nations  fell for five consecutive months.  “The corn-supply situation has gone from being underwater
to having its head above water,” said Roger Fray, the executive
vice president of grain at farmer-owned grain handler West
Central Cooperative in Ralston, Iowa, who expects cash prices to
drop 20 percent by December. “We have enough supply until what
should be a record harvest.”  Worst Commodity  Futures plunged 7.3 percent to $6.4425 a bushel this month
on the Chicago Board of Trade, the most of 24 commodities
tracked by the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index, which slid 2.7
percent. The MSCI All-Country World Index of equities retreated
0.1 percent, and the U.S.  Dollar Index , a measure of the
currency against six trading partners, weakened 0.8 percent.
Treasuries returned 0.8 percent, a  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  index
shows.  Corn will average $6.15 in the fourth quarter, compared
with $7.1125 in the first three months of the year, according to
the median of 13 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The
December contract on the CBOT closed today at $5.4025.  U.S.  exports  are dropping faster than the government had
forecast. Shipments since Sept. 1 reached 15.52 million tons as
of March 28, from 34.07 million tons a year earlier, according
to the USDA. The agency updates its forecasts tomorrow.  Cattle, hog and poultry producers in the U.S., who use two
of every five bushels grown, probably consumed 30 percent less
in the first quarter from a year earlier, based on March 1
inventories, said Joel Karlin, the director of commodity sales
at Goshen, California-based Western Milling LLC, which makes
feed. Production of ethanol, the second-largest user of corn,
fell 12 percent since Sept. 1, Department of Energy data show.  Spurring Demand  Cheaper corn may revive demand from importers including
 China  that allowed stockpiles to diminish when prices were high,
said Jeff Hainline, the president of Advance Trading Inc. in
Bloomington,  Illinois . Midwest farmers won’t plant until late
this month, and lingering drought in  Iowa ,  Minnesota ,  Nebraska 
and  South Dakota  means more risk the harvest in October will
fall short of the government’s target, he said.  The cost of importing U.S. corn in China is less expensive
than domestic supply, data from Shanghai JC Intelligence Co.
show. Sales of U.S. corn for delivery after the harvest begins
reached 2.47 million tons on March 28, 34 percent higher than a
year earlier, USDA data show.  The world is less dependent on U.S. corn, with its market
share dropping to 24 percent this year, from more than 33
percent a year earlier, government data show.  Argentina , the
second-largest exporter, will boost output by 23 percent to
25.74 million tons, and  Brazil  will reap its second-largest crop
ever, according to a Bloomberg survey.  Inventory Surprise  Global inventories before this year’s Northern Hemisphere
harvests will total 120.41 million tons, according to a
Bloomberg survey of 18 analysts. While that’s down from 131
million a year earlier, it would be 2.5 percent more than
forecast in March.  The USDA said March 28 that domestic  inventories  on March 1
were 8.1 percent bigger than analysts had forecast. Prices fell
13 percent in two days and reached $6.265 on April 5, the lowest
since June 29.  The government also said that farmers intend to  plant 
97.282 million acres this year, the most since 1936. Assuming
normal weather patterns, global corn  production  will climb 15
percent to a record 975.65 million tons in the year beginning
July 1, from 851.58 million tons a year earlier, Informa
Economics Inc. said in an April 3 report.  Hedge Funds  Hedge funds  and other large speculators cut bets on higher
corn prices by 51 percent in the week ending April 2, the
biggest reduction since June 2010, U.S. Commodity Futures
Trading Commission data show.  Growing conditions across the Midwest are improving after
snow and rain increased soil moisture, according to data from
the U.S. Drought Monitor. About 20 percent of the nine-state
region on April 2 was classified with severe to exceptional
drought, compared with 30 percent on Jan. 1 and 50 percent at
the end of August. Drought conditions will ease through June 1
in the western Midwest, Great Plains and parts of the Southeast,
according to the U.S. Climate Prediction Center.  The USDA predicted Feb. 22 that domestic cash prices would
average $4.80 this year. With cash corn for December delivery
fetching around $5 now, buyers may pay less than $4 by December,
according to Fray at West Central Cooperative, which has 28
storage facilities in Iowa, the top U.S. grower.  Unkind Markets  The drop in prices has made some farmers reluctant to sell.
Only about 2 percent of the 2013 crop has been sold in advance
of the harvest, down from 20 percent on average in the past five
years, probably because they are counting on a weather-driven
rally similar to the previous three years, Fray said.  “There is no reason for consumers or investors to be
anxious about running out of supplies,” said  Dale Durchholz ,
the senior market analyst for AgriVisor LLC in Bloomington,
Illinois. “When farmers and investors are hoping for a rally to
sell, the market usually isn’t that kind.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  