-- Corn Gains as Some Investors Seen Ending Bets on Further Losses
-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 2013-04-09T02:42:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/corn-gains-as-some-investors-seen-ending-bets-on-further-losses.html
Corn advanced, extending a rebound
from a nine-month low, as some investors reversed bets on losses
and wet weather in the U.S. raised the risk of planting delays
in the world’s largest grower.  The contract for May delivery rose 0.6 percent to $6.375 a
bushel on the  Chicago  Board of Trade at 10:27 a.m. in Singapore
on volume that was 17 percent below the average for that time of
day. Futures dropped to $6.265 on April 5, the cheapest since
June. Corn’s 14-day relative strength index has stayed below 30
since April 1, a technical signal to some analysts that an
asset’s price has fallen too fast and is poised to increase.  Thunderstorms and moderate-to-heavy rain are expected
across the Midwest through tomorrow, while northwest to
southeast parts of the U.S. may have cool weather later this
week, Accuweather.com said in a forecast yesterday.  “People are just doing a bit of short-covering after last
week’s plunge,” Joyce Liu, an analyst at Phillip Futures Pte.,
said by phone from  Singapore , referring to ending bets on
declines. Corn dropped 9.5 percent last week. “The weather in
the U.S. has been very wet. It will delay corn planting.”  Soybeans for May delivery gained 0.5 percent to $13.8425 a
bushel in Chicago, while wheat for delivery in the same month
lost 0.6 percent to $7.0825 a bushel. Wheat advanced 1.9 percent
yesterday after China bought as many as 16 U.S. cargoes,
according to state-owned Grain.gov.cn.  About 36 percent of the U.S. winter-wheat crop was rated
good or excellent as of April 7, compared with 34 percent a week
earlier, the U.S. Department of Agriculture said yesterday. The
U.S. is the world’s biggest exporter.  “The weather in the U.S. has been favorable for wheat and
we’ve seen some slight improvement in winter-wheat crop
conditions,” Liu said. “That’s easing concerns about supply
coming from the U.S.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  