-- Cuomo Seeks N.Y. Criminal Laws Dealing With Corruption
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2013-04-09T19:17:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/cuomo-calls-for-new-york-criminal-laws-dealing-with-corruption.html
New York  Governor  Andrew Cuomo , who
vowed to clean up  Albany  after decades of graft, called for
tougher criminal laws for corrupt officials after the latest
arrests of state lawmakers.  Cuomo, a Democrat, made the announcement today at a
Manhattan news briefing where he was flanked by local
prosecutors. The measures, which Cuomo wants lawmakers to
approve by the end of the legislative session in June, would
expand the power of the state’s 62 district attorneys to
investigate public corruption and increase penalties for crimes
such as bribery.  The governor is pushing for the changes, which he said will
help state law better match federal statutes, one week after two
lawmakers were charged in separate federal corruption cases. A
third legislator, who wore a wire as an informant for almost
four years, resigned after pleading guilty to a perjury charge.  “There have been too many incidents for too many years,”
Cuomo said today. “These laws will empower the district
attorneys to bring these kinds of cases all across the state.”  Cuomo, 55, has positioned himself as the sheriff of Albany,
saying when he took office in 2011 that he would end the
capital’s dysfunction and culture of corruption. He points to
the first three consecutive on-time budgets since 1984 as a sign
that his plan is working.  Growing List  On April 2, the day after his most recent budget went into
effect, federal authorities arrested a Democratic senator,
accusing him of trying to bribe his way onto the Republican New
York City mayoral ticket. Two days later, an assemblyman was
accused of taking bribes to push legislation, and another who
helped prosecutors bust him resigned.  They were the latest to join a growing list. In 2006,
Comptroller  Alan Hevesi , a Democrat, resigned as part of a plea
deal struck after he assigned a state employee to be the
chauffer for his ailing wife. In 2010, Hevesi, who as
comptroller was the sole trustee of the state’s pension fund,
pleaded guilty to approving a $250 million pension investment in
exchange for a $1 million kickback.  In August, Assemblyman Vito Lopez, a Brooklyn Democrat, was
stripped of his committee chairmanship when an ethics committee
determined he sexually harassed two staff members. Days later,
Senator Shirley Huntley, a Queens Democrat whose nonprofit has
been under state investigation, was indicted on charges of
conspiracy, tampering with evidence and falsifying business
records. Huntley pleaded guilty in January to U.S. charges that
she conspired to commit mail fraud.  Espada, Bruno  Pedro Espada Jr., a Democrat, was convicted last year of
embezzling $448,000 from a nonprofit health-care network he
founded. The funds were used on lobster dinners, theater tickets
and spa treatments, prosecutors said.  Another former Senate majority leader, Joseph Bruno, a
Republican, was charged last year by federal prosecutors,
accused of taking bribe. He pleaded not guilty. Bruno had a
previous conviction on corruption charges thrown out in 2011.  Senator Carl Kruger, a Democrat, was sentenced to seven
years in prison last year for taking payoffs.  The bills Cuomo is proposing are the second set he’s backed
since taking office. The first package approved by lawmakers in
2011 established a new ethics commission and required greater
financial disclosure from public officials, though some of the
changes have yet to take effect. The commission has been
criticized for its limited authority and inability to make
public some its own findings.  Must Report  The proposed legislation is meant to make it easier for
local prosecutors to convict public officials of bribery by
requiring that prosecutors prove only that an official intended
to be influenced by the graft, similar to the federal provision.
Existing law requires proof that there was an explicit agreement
between the person paying the bribe and the recipient.  Another measure would, for the first time, make it a
misdemeanor for any public official or employee to fail to
report bribery. The new group of felonies would allow those
convicted of the crimes to be barred from holding elected
office, doing business with the state or registering as a
lobbyist.  ‘Too Long’  “Under the new class of crimes proposed by the governor,
prosecutors will be able to pursue defrauding the government and
bribery more aggressively, criminalizing activities that have
been wrong but legal for far too long,” said Manhattan District
Attorney Cyrus Vance, who also heads the state District
Attorneys Association.  Cuomo said today he’ll also continue to push for ethics
laws, including public financing for campaigns. He also wants to
reduce the influence local party leaders have in selecting
candidates. Cuomo said in a radio interview yesterday that he
also hasn’t ruled out a so-called Moreland Commission, which
could use subpoena power to root out corruption at the
governor’s direction.  Dean Skelos, the Long Island Republican who co-leads the
Senate, didn’t specifically back Cuomo’s proposal, though he
said more can be done to go after corruption.  “In light of the charges brought last week by the U.S.
Attorney against members of the legislature, we must redouble
our efforts to create a government  New Yorkers  can be proud
of,” Skelos said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Freeman Klopott in Albany  at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  