-- Cyprus Losses Spur EU Lawmakers to Bolster Depositor Protection
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-04-09T16:52:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/cyprus-losses-spur-eu-lawmakers-to-bolster-depositor-protection.html
The European Parliament will seek
greater protection for depositors of crisis-hit banks in the
wake of the Cyprus bailout as it weighs changes to proposals
aimed at taking taxpayers off the hook for future rescues.  Lawmakers are planning to amend a draft European Union law
on  bank failures  so that deposits would only be written down
after losses have been imposed on other unsecured senior debt,
according to Gunnar Hoekmark, the legislator leading the
assembly’s work on the plans. The measure would apply to
deposits greater than 100,000 euros ($130,900), as those below
this threshold already benefit from government guarantees.  “Uninsured deposits should be within the scope,” of the
so-called bail-in rules, Hoekmark said in an e-mail. “However,
they should be given a preferential treatment in the hierarchy
and rank above unsecured bondholders to make sure risks to
depositors are minimized,” he said. The  European Central Bank 
made a similar call last week for a so-called depositor
preference.  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services chief, proposed
creditor writedowns last year as part of a package of measures
to end bailouts. National governments and the European
Parliament are considering the plans against the backdrop of
last month’s 10 billion-euro rescue deal for Cyprus, in which
the island nation bowed to demands from creditors to shrink its
banking system and write down deposits.  Insured Deposits  An earlier deal on the bailout that would have led to
losses on depositors with less than 100,000 euros in their
accounts was dropped after Cyprus’s parliament rejected the plan
to eat into insured holdings.  National governments are also weighing changes to the draft
law to boost protection of depositors in a bail-in, according to
a document prepared by Ireland, which holds the EU’s rotating
presidency.  Under those plans, regulators could take steps “in
exceptional cases” to entirely exempt deposits from writedowns
if the savings belong to individuals or small businesses.  Under Barnier’s plans, regulators would wipe out a failing
bank’s capital, and then impose losses on its creditors in order
of seniority, with deposits above 100,000 euros facing
writedowns at the same stage as other uninsured senior claims.
Debt that is secured by collateral or other assets would be
exempt from the plans.  Under changes being discussed by parliament lawmakers,
uninsured depositors would face losses “as a last resort”
before public support is used, Philippe Lamberts, the lawmaker
leading work on the rules for the parliament’s Green group, said
in an e-mail.  Barnier’s proposals require approval from the parliament
and by a majority of governments before they can take effect.  Nations have had intensive discussions on the draft law,
and that work will now be stepped up in a bid to secure a deal,
said a spokeswoman for the Irish presidency, who isn’t
authorized to be cited by name, in line with official policy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  