-- Czech Inflation Stays Below Target Amid Koruna Sales Talk
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2013-04-09T11:18:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/czech-inflation-stays-below-target-amid-koruna-sales-talk.html
Czech consumer-price inflation was
slower than the central bank’s target for a third month in March
as policy makers debate whether to stimulate the recession-hit
economy by weakening the koruna.  The  inflation  rate was 1.7 percent, unchanged from
February, the Statistics Office said in a statement on its
website today. The reading matched the median estimate in a
Bloomberg survey of 16 analysts, while prices rose 0.1 percent
from the previous month. The central bank had forecast annual
inflation at 2 percent in March, the same as its target.  The Ceska Narodni Banka in  Prague , which cut  borrowing
costs  three times to effectively zero last year, is navigating
in uncharted waters as its board debates whether to engage in
currency interventions amid a record-long recession. The $217
billion  economy  is shrinking as households and businesses spend
less due to  Europe ’s debt crisis and government austerity
measures.  “From the central bank’s perspective, these data are anti-
inflationary as its latest forecast saw March inflation at 2
percent,” Jiri Skop, an economist at  Komercni Banka AS (KOMB)  in
Prague, said in an e-mail. “Verbal interventions for a weaker
koruna will probably continue, although levels of around or
above 25.5 per euro are suitable for central bankers.”  Koruna Losses  The koruna has lost 4.7 percent to the euro since Sept. 17,
the day before central bank Governor Miroslav Singer first said
the central bank may sell the currency to meet its inflation
goal. It was the fourth-worst performance in that period among
the 25 emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The
koruna weakened less than 0.1 percent to trade at 25.740 to the
euro as of 1 p.m. in Prague.  The domestic  economy  is more subdued than the central bank
had expected and weaker household demand signals deferred
consumption due to declining prices except for food and fuels,
the bank said last week in minutes from its March 28  policy 
meeting.  Inflation relevant for monetary policy, defined as price
growth adjusted for changes in indirect taxes, was 0.9 percent,
unchanged from February and below the central bank’s 1 percent
to 3 percent target band.  “The published figures signal a slight anti-inflationary
risk to the CNB’s current forecast,” the central bank said in a
statement on its website. “According to this forecast, tax
changes and gradually falling food, administered and import
price growth are currently the sources of inflation. By
contrast, the domestic economy is dampening inflation.”  Shrinking Economy  Fourth-quarter  gross domestic product  shrank 0.2 percent
from the previous three months, marking the fourth consecutive
quarterly decline. Household spending fell 3.5 percent in the
full year of 2012, the first decline since 1998, the statistics
office has said.  The koruna is at the center of policy plans as its
depreciation helps boost the  competitiveness  of Czech goods on
foreign markets and makes imports more expensive, thus limiting
deflation risks.  March inflation data didn’t change the economic picture
very much,  Martin Lobotka , an analyst at Ceska Sporitelna AS in
Prague, said in an e-mail.  “There is certainly no threat of demand-driven inflation
pressures, and there is no threat of deflation either,” Lobotka
said. “We think the central bank will stay calm and won’t
engage in interventions unless there is a significant economic
slowdown, at least similar to 2012, or the koruna gains sharply,
beyond 25 per euro.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  