-- Deutsche Telekom Tallies MetroPCS Votes to Weigh Bid
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z   a n d   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2013-04-10T14:26:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/deutsche-telekom-tallies-metropcs-votes-to-weigh-bid.html
As  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  nears a
contested shareholder vote over the proposed merger between its
T-Mobile USA unit and  MetroPCS Communications Inc. (PCS) , it has an
advantage: it gets to count the ballots as they come in.  MetroPCS shareholders are sending in their proxy documents
in advance of an April 12 meeting, and Deutsche Telekom can
monitor the results in real time, giving it an early warning if
the measure is going to fail. The German carrier is considering
an option to delay the final tally if victory appears
unattainable, providing a chance to improve its bid, people
familiar with the matter said.  At issue is whether the two companies can combine to gain
the scale to compete against the mobile-phone industry’s largest
players, such as AT&T Inc. and Verizon Wireless. While Deutsche
Telekom’s access to voting numbers is common in mergers, it’s
unusual for a company to exploit that information so late in the
process, said Jim Kahan, a senior adviser with TAP Advisors LLC,
a boutique investment-banking firm.  “They are more in the driver’s seat than the people who
oppose the deal,” Kahan said in a phone interview from New
York. “The whole process has been a little strange.”  ‘Proxy Fight’  Shareholders seeking to encourage Deutsche Telekom to make
a better offer can still put pressure on the company by
withholding their votes until the last minute, even if they plan
to approve the deal, said Roy Behren, a MetroPCS shareholder who
co-manages the $4.7 billion  Merger Fund (MERFX)  at Westchester Capital
in Valhalla, New York.  “I don’t know if I’d call it a game of chicken, but as
often happens with a proxy fight, you see people wait until the
last minute,” said Behren, whose firm filed a lawsuit last
month against MetroPCS, seeking a court order from a federal
judge to delay the vote.  Shareholders who choose to abstain completely from the
election will count as votes against the proposal, according to
MetroPCS filings, adding to Deutsche Telekom’s challenge in
gauging the outcome. Investors have until 11:59 p.m. New York
time tomorrow to vote by Internet or telephone or can attend the
meeting to vote in person. They can also change their votes if
they have already cast ballots.  Deutsche Telekom is still optimistic its proposal can win
shareholders’ approval without a sweetened offer, said the
people familiar with the matter, who asked not to be named
because the deliberations are private.  Good-Faith Agreement  Deutsche Telekom  shares  rose 1.1 percent to 8.53 euros at
4:14 p.m. in  Frankfurt , valuing the phone company at 36.9
billion euros ($48 billion). MetroPCS gained 1 percent to $11.30
in New York, implying an enterprise value for the joint company
of $31.4 billion.  The vote is being managed by proxy solicitor  MacKenzie
Partners Inc.  The firm gives MetroPCS a running tally, and the
mobile-phone carrier passes that information on to Deutsche
Telekom under a good-faith agreement between the companies. A
MetroPCS representative declined to comment further on the state
of the transaction, as did a Deutsche Telekom official.  “This is sensational,” Heinz Steffen, an analyst at
Fairesearch GmbH in Kronberg,  Germany , said of the early
indications of the vote outcome. “Even so, I’m still not sure
they’ll get through with it.”  Two Weeks  A delay would push back the vote about two weeks, since the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission would require the filing
of a new proxy statement, the people said. The April 12 meeting
is currently scheduled for 8 a.m. local time in Richardson,
 Texas .  Deutsche Telekom, Germany’s biggest phone company, would
own almost three-quarters of the new business after making a
$1.5 billion cash payment to MetroPCS shareholders. The German
company also would loan $15 billion to the entity. The resulting
level of debt -- and the relatively high, 7 percent projected
interest rate -- would be a heavy burden, according to P.
Schoenfeld Asset Management and other opponents.  “I’m surprised Deutsche Telekom hasn’t been more pragmatic
and sweetened the deal,” said Kahan, a former strategist at
AT&T. The company could probably address shareholders’ concerns
with small adjustments to the debt or interest rates, he said.  “They’ve come a long way and they aren’t going to let this
deal fail,” he said.  U.S. Comeback  Advisory firms Institutional Shareholder Services and
Glass, Lewis & Co. came out against the transaction, while Egan-
Jones Proxy Services was in favor.  The proposal would unify the fourth- and fifth-largest U.S.
wireless carriers, and it represents a key part of Bonn-based
Deutsche Telekom’s effort to stage a U.S. comeback. In the wake
of a failed 2011 takeover by AT&T, T-Mobile has ranked a distant
No. 4 struggling against Verizon Wireless, AT&T and  Sprint
Nextel Corp. (S)   T-Mobile lost 2.1 million contract subscribers last year
and doesn’t expect to reverse that trend until next year. The
company said last week that its cheaper subscriptions and plans
to offer Apple Inc.’s iPhone improved its customers’ loyalty.
Monthly subscriber losses for the T-Mobile brand in the first
quarter fell to 199,000, down from 515,000 in the fourth
quarter.  “Deutsche Telekom needs to decide if a modified
transaction is in the best interest of everyone, including
itself,” said Behren, who plans to vote against the
transaction.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net ;
Cornelius Rahn in Berlin at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  