-- Deutsche Telekom Wins Watchdog Approval for Faster Web
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2013-04-09T09:06:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/deutsche-telekom-wins-watchdog-approval-for-faster-web.html
Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ,  Germany ’s
largest phone company, won permission to offer speedier Web
access in most urban areas on existing copper lines, giving it a
cheaper way to take on cable providers.  The Bonn-based carrier may deny rivals access to its
street-side cabinets -- a precondition for installing the so-
called DSL vectoring technology -- under certain conditions,
Germany’s Federal Network Agency said today in an e-mailed draft
ruling. Such a move is allowed, for instance, in areas where
customers can choose an alternative fixed-line network, the
watchdog said.  “The driving idea behind the decision is to allow
vectoring for all market participants and thus drive forward the
broadband rollout,” Jochen Homann, the agency’s president, said
in the statement. “The open access approach ensures that no
monopolies may arise in certain areas: neither for Deutsche
Telekom nor its competitors.”  Other DSL providers may also use the technology if they
agree to let peers offer their own data services via the cable,
the network agency said.  Shares of Deutsche Telekom rose 0.4 percent to 8.46 euros
at 11:04 a.m. Frankfurt time.  Deutsche Telekom aims to supply 24 million German
households with vectored DSL, which speeds up data transfer by
eliminating electromagnetic interference between wires, by 2016.
That would let it delay having to replace millions of copper
cables in customer homes with fiber-optics connections in coming
years, slashing the cost of its broadband rollout by about 80
percent per line, JPMorgan Chase & Co. has estimated.  Germany’s former phone monopoly has estimated that covering
the entire country with fiber connections would cost 60 billion
euros ($78 billion) to 80 billion euros. The company budgets
less than 10 billion euros a year for network investments, a
figure that includes mobile and international networks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Berlin at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  