-- Developing Asia Rebound Faces Risk From Capital Flows, ADB Says
-- B y   S h a r o n   C h e n
-- 2013-04-09T01:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/developing-asia-rebound-faces-risk-from-capital-flows-adb-says.html
Developing Asia’s growth recovery
faces the risk of asset bubbles from rising capital inflows, the
 Asian Development Bank  said.  Gross domestic product will increase 6.6 percent in 2013
and 6.7 percent next year, the Manila-based lender said in its
Asian Development Outlook 2013 released today. Consumer prices
will rise 4 percent in 2013 and 4.2 percent next year, it said.  Officials from  South Korea  to the Philippines have taken
action, or are studying measures, to counter the inflow of
capital to the region amid policy easing by some developed
economies. The  Bank of Japan  said on April 4 it would double the
monetary base by the end of 2014 in the nation’s biggest-ever
round of asset purchases, joining the  Federal Reserve  and the
 European Central Bank  in boosting stimulus to support growth.  “Advanced economies will likely continue their
accommodative monetary stance, and authorities in developing
Asia must safeguard the soundness of the finance sector to avoid
the emergence of disruptive asset bubbles,” the ADB said.
“Robust growth has largely eliminated slack productive capacity
in many regional economies such that loose monetary policy risks
reigniting inflation.”  The Fed, the ECB and the BOJ have more than doubled the
combined size of their balance sheets since the global financial
crisis broke out in 2007, expanding them by a total $4.7
trillion. Japan’s actions may increase volatility in the
 currency markets , Philippine central bank Governor Amando Tetangco said yesterday.  Yen Weakens  The yen yesterday dropped to the weakest level against the
dollar since June 2009. Meanwhile, the  Thai baht  last month
reached the strongest level since a devaluation in 1997 sparked
the Asian financial crisis, and the  Philippine Stock Exchange
Index (PCOMP)  touched a record high this month.  China will probably grow 8.2 percent this year and 8
percent in 2014 as more stringent environmental standards and
policies to make growth inclusive may slow the pace of
investment, ADB said in the report. India’s economy may expand 6
percent in 2013 and 6.5 percent next year, it said.  Southeast  Asia  is forecast to grow 5.4 percent this year
and 5.7 percent next year, with strong domestic demand and wage
pressures likely to cause inflation to accelerate to 4.2 percent
this year, the report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Chen in Singapore at 
 schen462@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  