-- Diageo Bid for Majority Stake in United Spirits Set to Fail
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r   a n d   A d i   N a r a y a n
-- 2013-04-10T08:28:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/diageo-s-bid-for-majority-stake-in-united-spirits-set-to-fail.html
Diageo Plc (DGE)  tried for years to buy
part of Vijay Mallya’s  United Spirits Ltd. (UNSP)  before striking a
November agreement to take a 53 percent stake in the company.  That bid for majority control will likely fail, leaving
Diageo with less than a third of India’s largest distiller.  London-based Diageo is likely to draw little investor
interest in an open offer beginning today for 26 percent of the
Asian distiller. United Spirits’ stock is 25 percent above the
1,440 rupees Diageo is paying in the offer that was triggered by
its November deal to buy a separate 27 percent from Mallya and
others.  “At the current juncture, it looks very difficult for
Diageo, and I’d be surprised if someone actually sells,” in the
open market, Abhijeet Kundu, Mumbai-based analyst at Antique
Stock Broking Ltd. “They will be under pressure to raise the
price, though that appears unlikely.”  Diageo is seeking to expand in the world’s largest whiskey
market through the deal that could cost as much as $2.1 billion
as rising incomes boost demand for alcohol. A failed tender
offer to get the majority will leave the maker of Johnnie Walker
Scotch with the option to raise the price of its offer, buy out
shares gradually over the coming years or suffer the headache of
being a minority investor, analysts including Nomura
International’s Ian Shackleton said.  Being a minority holder in the maker of Bagpiper and
McDowell’s whiskey is “less preferable for Diageo than getting
a majority share and immediately being in the driving seat”
saidShackleton. “They’ll end up getting to where they want to
get to, but it’ll take a little bit longer than originally
targeted.”  Diageo’s offer ends on April 26.  Liquor Baron  The open offer is the “starting process,” and Diageo will
raise their price or pursue other approaches to gain majority
control of the spirits maker, said Ankur Bisen, vice president
for retail at consultant Technopak Advisors Pvt. “It’s clearly
a work in progress.”  Under the terms of the November deal, Diageo would get 19
percent from Mallya and others. It would also be allotted
preferential stock that would amount to 10 percent of United
Spirits enlarged share capital. Another 26 percent would come
from the open market if the tender offer was fully subscribed.  Without a majority holding Diageo is “slightly reliant on
Mallya’s support, and that’s not quite as secure as having your
own shares,” said Shackleton. Mallya’s UB Holdings has said it
will retain a 15 percent stake after the deal is completed.  If Diageo does complete its acquisition of shares from
Mallya, it can nominate the chief executive officer and chief
financial officer, and if it doesn’t get a majority interest,
Mallya’s holding company has agreed to vote its remaining
shareholding as directed by the U.K. distiller for a four-year
period.  The company believes that a shareholding in excess of 25.1
percent would give it control, spokeswoman Rowan Pearman said
yesterday. Prakash Mirpuri, a spokesman for the UB Group, the
Mallya conglomerate that controls United Spirits, couldn’t be
reached.  Bank Collateral  Diageo also faces risks completing its purchase of Mallya’s
shares. The liquor baron offered United Spirits stock and other
assets as collateral for his loss making  Kingfisher Airlines
Ltd. (KAIR)  The airline has halted flights since October after
struggling with an 86-billion-rupee debt pile.  An Indian court this month declined to stop banks from
selling pledged shares of United Spirits Ltd. The banks haven’t
specified what portion of Mallya’s United Spirits stake is
pledged for Kingfisher loans.  Mallya’s UB Holdings lost some of its stake in United
Spirits and Kingfisher, after the banks sold some of their
pledged shares on April 1, according to exchange filings today.
UB’s stake in the whiskey maker fell to 15.7 percent from 17.8
percent.  “There are too many questions right now,” said Sachin
Bobade, analyst at Brics Securities. “There is no clarity about
how this deal will play out.”  Distribution Network  In 2009, the British company sought a minority stake in
Bangalore-based United Spirits. Talks collapsed after the Indian
distiller said the offer was too low.  United Spirits has a leading 43 percent share of  India ’s
whiskey market, which Euromonitor International estimates will
grow about 50 percent to $31.1 billion in the five years through
2016.  Access to United Spirits’ widespread distribution network
would over time provide a boost to Diageo’s international
spirits brands and help it tap rising Indian demand for Scotch.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net ;
Adi Narayan in Mumbai at 
 anarayan8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net ;
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  