-- Dortmund Wins Late in Champions League as Real Madrid Holds on
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-04-09T23:12:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/dortmund-real-madrid-advance-to-champions-league-semifinals.html
Borussia Dortmund scored twice in
stoppage time to move into the Champions League soccer
semifinals, while record-nine time winner Real Madrid held off a
late comeback from Galatasaray to advance.  Marco Reus and Felipe Santana scored during four added
minutes as Dortmund beat Malaga 3-2 last night in  Germany  to
claim a spot in the last four of  Europe ’s elite club competition
for the first time since 1998. The teams had drawn 0-0 last week
in Spain to open the two-match quarterfinal.  “What we accomplished will only really sink in over the
next few days,” Dortmund goalkeeper Roman Weidenfeller said on
the website of tournament organizer UEFA. “It’s an unbelievable
feeling of pride. We weren’t able to call upon the form from
recent games, but in the end we were rewarded for our
irrepressible belief.”  Real Madrid advanced 5-3 on aggregate against Galatasaray
following its 3-2 loss in  Turkey . Cristiano Ronaldo scored both
Real goals, pushing his tournament-leading total to 11.  “In this kind of match we had everything to lose but
nothing to gain,” Real coach Jose Mourinho said on UEFA’s
website. “Now we have a semi to play, against a great team. We
do not know which one yet.”  The other two semifinalists will be decided tonight.
Barcelona hosts Paris Saint-Germain with the teams tied 2-2 and
Bayern Munich takes a 2-0 lead against Juventus into a matchup
of former European Cup winners in  Italy . The semifinal draw
takes place in two days in Nyon, Switzerland.  Malaga Leads  Malaga’s Joaquin opened the scoring in the 25th minute in
Germany before Robert Lewandowski tied it for 1997 champion five
minutes before halftime.  Malaga looked set to advance when it went 2-1 up as Eliseu
scored in the 82nd minute, leaving Dortmund needing two goals to
advance. Reus tied the score in the first minute of stoppage
time before Santana added the winner two minutes later, poking
the ball over the line following a scramble in front of goal.  “We’re still trying to come to terms with what happened,”
said Malaga striker Roque Santa Cruz. “We were four minutes
away from the semis. It’s such a pity to lose like this,
especially as every one of us put in a huge effort.”  Real Madrid moved into the semifinals for a record-
extending 24th time even after losing in Istanbul.  With his team leading 3-0 from the opener, Ronaldo put Real
four goals ahead when he directed Sami Khedira’s pass past
goalkeeper Fernando Muslera in the seventh minute.  Galatasaray Goals  The game remained 1-0 until the 57th minute when
Galatasaray’s Wesley Sneijder made a run down the left side and
cut a ball back toward the center for the onrushing Emmanuel Eboue to smash into the top corner.  The Turkish league leader then struck twice in two minutes
to put pressure on Real. Sneijder scored in the 70th minute and
Didier Drogba followed with a back-heeled goal to reduce Real’s
overall lead to 4-3.  Real’s Alvaro Arbeloa was red-carded in the 89th minute
after receiving his second yellow card before Ronaldo added his
second in injury time to close the scoring.  “We didn’t have much hope,” Galatasaray forward Johan Elmander said. “It’s almost impossible to eliminate a team like
Real Madrid coming from 3-0 behind.”  Real, which won its most-recent European Cup title in 2002,
now enters the semifinals for the third straight year after
exiting in the round of 16 the previous six seasons.  “They made things hard, but in reality we were the ones
who made things complicated for ourselves,” Ronaldo said.
“We’re happy to get through after this difficult game.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 