-- The Upside of Giving In to North Korea’s Blackmail
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-04-09T22:08:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/the-upside-of-giving-in-to-north-korea-s-blackmail.html
With its provocation-a-day
strategy,  North Korea  has almost exhausted the news media’s
capacity for stories about the “ratcheting up” of tensions on
the Korean Peninsula.  Here’s some news from the North, though, that you may not
have heard: In recent meetings, the ruling Korean Workers’ Party
 elected  Pak Pong Ju, an economic reformer, to its Political
Bureau, which steers political, policy and personnel decisions,
and downgraded the role of the military by reducing its
representation. Subsequently, Pak was made Cabinet premier. On
April 5, even as North  Korea  warned foreign diplomats that it
couldn’t guarantee their safety, the front page of Rodong
Sinmun, the country’s newspaper of record, was  dominated  by
headlines urging faster economic development. News outlets that
rely on clandestine reports from inside North Korea suggest that
preparing for war has given way to preparing for spring
planting.  Of course, just because Kim Jong Un has no interest in
starting a war doesn’t mean that he can’t stage some dangerous
incident -- all designed to get the U.S. to talk to him. He
wants that dialogue in order to seek relief from international
sanctions, to acquire the aid that his country desperately needs
and, not least, to secure his domestic political standing with a
high-profile public-relations victory.  The first task of the U.S. is to respond to any actual
military provocation in a firm but measured way. President
 Barack Obama  has so far wisely resisted engaging in Kim’s war of
words, and has appropriately reinforced U.S. military assets in
the region.  Yet as some analysts have  pointed out , the dominant
military position of the U.S. is itself an unsettling factor on
the Korean Peninsula. While the North’s artillery and rockets
could inflict a horrific toll on the 10 million-plus South
Koreans living in  Seoul , the government in Pyongyang knows it
would quickly lose any conventional conflict: The prospect of
impending defeat could well encourage Kim to go nuclear. For
that reason, the U.S. should persuade South Korea to refrain
from further loose talk about retaliatory targeting of the
North’s “command and control” facilities. Likewise, more
publicly announced sorties over  South Korea  by U.S. B-2 bombers
may be stirring, but they are not stabilizing.  Some proponents of a “get tough” approach with North Korea
dream that isolating the regime will force its sudden collapse.
They should be careful what they wish for. The inevitable
humanitarian chaos of such an outcome would generate huge
economic costs. Before reunification,  West Germany  was two to
three times richer than the East. By contrast, South Koreans are
somewhere between 15 and 40 times richer than their counterparts
to the north. As one expert  notes , estimates of the cost of
reunification range from $200 billion to $5 trillion -- or
almost five times South Korea’s gross domestic product.  Most South Koreans are in no hurry to pay that price. As
for  China  and  Russia , the prospect of a united, pro-U.S. Korea
at their borders is far less appealing than some version of the
status quo. Notwithstanding Chinese President Xi Jinping’s
recent veiled warnings to Pyongyang, officials in Beijing (and
Moscow) will do only the minimum necessary to keep the peace.  That minimum doesn’t necessarily include forcing North
Korea to give up its nuclear program. As we have argued before,
setting North Korea’s nuclear disarmament as a precondition for
talks with the U.S. on a permanent peace treaty is a misguided
and unrealistic strategy -- one that is doomed, at best, to
stalemate. Kim has no incentive to give up the one thing that
seemingly keeps the U.S. at bay. In fact, by fixating on
dismantling the nuclear program, the U.S. has turned it into a
point of leverage for the North. At this stage, the smarter
strategy would be to pursue the “three noes”  advocated  by
Siegfried Hecker, a former director of the Los Alamos National
Laboratory who has visited the North many times: “no more bombs,
no better bombs and no export.”  Fortunately, the North Koreans have created an opening for
just such a tack in diplomacy. The decision at the country’s top
political meetings to focus simultaneously on economic reform,
especially exports and foreign investment, as well as a bigger
nuclear program, amounts to what Korea-watcher Stephan Haggard
of the  University of California   calls  “fundamental illogic”:
Foreign investors won’t put money into a country that is hurling
nuclear threats and fighting sanctions.  The task ahead is to convince the North Koreans, whether
through a revival of the six-party talks hosted by China or some
other venue, that they can only realize their hopes for economic
growth by putting their nukes back in the box. Economic opening
and reform, in turn, will fuel the rising expectations that have
historically undermined the most repressive regimes.  In the short term, this may mean giving in to the Kim
family’s latest round of blackmail. Set against the hundreds of
thousands of deaths that a conflict could bring, though, that
seems like a small price to pay for the regime’s eventual,
orderly demise.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 