-- Health Management Declines on Cut to Top End of Forecast
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r
-- 2013-04-10T20:35:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/health-management-declines-on-cut-to-top-end-of-forecast.html
Health Management Associates Inc. (HMA) ,
the subject of a ’’60 Minutes’’ report criticizing its emergency
room practices, fell the most in four years after the company
reduced the high end of its 2013 earnings forecast because of a
decline in admissions.  Health Management fell 16 percent to $10.53 at the close in
New York, the most since December 2008. The Naples, Florida-
based company, an operator of 70 hospitals in 15 states,
yesterday forecast full-year profit from continuing operations
of 86 cents to 95 cents a share, compared with a Jan. 13  outlook 
of as much as $1.01.  Preliminary results show adjusted admissions fell 5.7
percent in the first quarter, Health Management said, estimating
the number of patients hospitalized for the year will show a 3
percent decline to break-even. The company was the subject of a
December report by the television news program “60 Minutes”
that criticized its emergency department admission practices.  “The volume weakness and resulting earnings shortfall
reported by the company are direct results of the ‘60 Minutes’
investigation/feature on its ER operations and admission
policies,” Brian Tanquilut, an analyst at Jefferies & Co. in
 Los Angeles , said in a note to investors. For that reason, the
weakness Health Management experienced is more company-specific,
he said.  Shares Drop  Shares of the largest U.S. hospital operators declined.  HCA
Holdings Inc. (HCA) , the biggest for-profit U.S. hospital chain, fell
2.6 percent to $36.67, while No. 2  Community Health Systems Inc. (CYH) 
declined 3.8 percent to $42.26.  Tenet Healthcare Corp. (THC) , the
third largest, dropped 5.5 percent to $41.14.  Admissions fell partly because of an increase in patients
who are treated under observation status rather than in-patient
due to pressure from managed-care payers, Gary Newsome, Health
Management’s chief executive officer, said on a conference call
today. Observation status brings in lower reimbursements.  Health Management hired extra workers to cope with an
expected influx of patients in the first quarter, typically the
busiest of the year, Newsome said in the statement yesterday.
This year, the anticipated increase didn’t happen, he said.  “Clearly the company was caught off-guard on a number of
fronts,” Thomas Gallucci, an analyst at Lazard Capital Markets
LLC in  New York , said in a note to investors today. “We are
less inclined to believe the peer group will, on average, post
results for the quarter that reflect as much pressure as seen at
HMA.”  Health Management shares have gained 49 percent in the past
 12 months . The company operated 70 hospitals in 15 states as of
Dec. 31, according to a regulatory filing. The company hasn’t
announced when it will release full first-quarter results.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Armour in Washington at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  