-- East Coast Warms as Plains Chill, Storms Delay Flights
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2013-04-09T18:28:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/east-coast-warms-as-plains-chill-storms-delay-flights.html
Temperatures climbed to 80 degrees
and beyond from  New York  to Washington today as snow and cold
gripped the central U.S., causing some air travel delays.  The high in Central Park at 2 p.m. was 80 degrees
Fahrenheit (27 Celsius) and was expected to reach 84, the
 National Weather Service  said. That would be the warmest since
Sept. 14, according to agency records. Washington was 84 at 2
p.m., 1 degree short of the day’s predicted high.  “The first widespread 80s of the season should peak
tomorrow for the mid-Atlantic cities as clouds and a backdoor
cool front threaten temperatures on Thursday,”  Matt Rogers ,
president of Commodity Weather Group LLC in Bethesda,  Maryland ,
said in a note to clients.  New York City’s high yesterday was 73 degrees, the first
reading above 70 since October, weather service data showed.  As the large cities on the East Coast heated up, winter
storm warnings and advisories reached from  Utah  to  Wisconsin .
Temperatures in the past 24 hours ranged from 100 degrees in
Zapata, Texas, to zero in Langdon,  North Dakota , according to
AccuWeather Inc. in  State College , Pennsylvania.  Denver, where yesterday’s high was 71 degrees, may get as
much as 5 inches (13 centimeters) of snow today, the weather
service said. The temperature at 11 a.m. local time was 14
degrees. As the storm moves east, it may bring as much as 12
inches of snow to  Minneapolis  by the end of the week.  Heavy Rain  The leading edge of that storm is also bringing heavy rain
and thunderstorms from Illinois to Texas, according to the
weather service.  Flights to Chicago’s O’Hare International Airport were
delayed by more than 2.5 hours because of the weather, according
to the  Federal Aviation Administration ’s website. High winds in
the  New York City  area caused delays of about 30 minutes at
Newark’s Liberty International and at New York’s LaGuardia
airports.  As of 1:50 p.m. New York time, 514 flights around the U.S.
had been canceled, with 260 of those at O’Hare and 179 at Denver
International, according to  FlightAware , a Houston-based airline
tracking service.  There’s a 15 percent chance of damaging winds from western
Missouri to northern Texas, down from 30 percent earlier today,
according to the  Storm Prediction Center  in Norman, Oklahoma. In
addition, there’s a 30 percent chance of hail across central
Oklahoma into northern Texas, down from 45 percent earlier.  The chance of rain along the East Coast will build starting
tonight and grow during the week. Those showers will push
temperatures down in the large eastern cities, Rogers said.  The high temperature readings, which can boost energy
demand as people use air conditioning to cool off, are expected
to return next week while the upper Great Plains remain cold,
Rogers said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  