-- Medicare Is Probing Advantage Rates Leak, Tavenner Says
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e   a n d   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-04-09T18:23:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/medicare-is-probing-advantage-rates-leak-tavenner-says.html
Medicare is probing the possible
leak of a government decision regarding health insurers’
payments for next year, administrator  Marilyn Tavenner  said.  The potential leak is a “huge issue,” Tavenner said in
testimony today before the U.S. Senate Finance Committee as
President  Barack Obama ’s nominee to head the U.S. Centers for
Medicare and Medicaid Services.  Humana Inc. (HUM)  surged as much as
9.5 percent on April 1, leading health insurers’ shares higher
about 40 minutes before a decision on rates was released.  “When information leaks from the administration that has
the ability to cause significant market movement, it is wrong
and quite possibly illegal,” said Senator  Charles Grassley , the
Iowa Republican who has been probing leaks from government
agencies and Congress to  Wall Street . “I hope you agree that,
ultimately, you’re responsible,” he told Tavenner.  Tavenner’s agency has jurisdiction over the rates the
government pays insurers as part of Medicare Advantage, a
private-sector alternative to the traditional Medicare program,
the U.S. health plan for the elderly and disabled. She has been
the agency’s acting administrator since 2011, and Obama re-
nominated her to lead it on Feb. 7.  “I do not consider this a small issue. I consider this a
huge issue,” Tavenner told Grassley. “We will do a thorough
investigation of it and give you feedback.”  The inspector general for the  Department of Health  and
Human Services, who has subpoena power, is looking into the
matter, she said. Don White, a spokesman for the HHS inspector
general, said he could neither confirm nor deny whether the
agency was investigating the incident.  Stock Surge  Health insurance stocks rose on April 1, about 40 minutes
before the government’s official announcement on new Medicare
Advantage rates, shining a spotlight on the ties among Congress,
U.S. agencies and certain investment advisers. At issue is a
private e-mail from a politically connected research firm that
alerted recipients the rates, scheduled to drop under a
preliminary decision, would increase instead.  The Washington-based investment research firm, Height
Analytics LLC, e-mailed its clients at 3:40 p.m. April 1, saying
“a deal has been hatched to protect Medicare Advantage rates,”
according to the copy received by  Bloomberg News . It was
followed less than three minutes later by a sharp rise in the
stocks of Louisville, Kentucky-based Humana and Minnetonka,
Minnesota-based  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH) , the biggest U.S. health
insurer, which participate in the Advantage program.  4 Million Shares  From the time the memo was sent to when the market closed
20 minutes later, about 4 million shares for Humana changed
hands, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s
equivalent to $305 million in market value and compares with a
daily average volume of 2.17 million shares over the past year.  One of Height’s founders is Andrew Parmentier, a former
staffer for the House Financial Services Committee and
previously an aide to former House Majority Leader  Dick Armey .  “Height Securities is an SEC registered broker dealer and
not a lobbying or political consulting firm,” Parmentier said
in an e-mail. “We issue research reports in accordance with a
comprehensive regulatory regime. We are highly confident our
April 1 report was based on good research, conducted in
accordance with this regulatory regime. We look forward to
demonstrating this to  Senator Grassley .”  Grassley’s Request  Grassley last week wrote Tavenner demanding the timeline of
a decision to reverse a planned cut to rates Medicare pays
insurance companies. While it’s not clear where the information
to Height Analytics came from, the senator’s letter asked the
agency about anybody who might have been told of the news early,
including the administration and members of Congress.  Tavenner said she doesn’t know whether her agency leaked
the Medicare Advantage information.  “Obviously I have a lot of pride in our agency, and so I
don’t want to believe our agency leaked anything, ever,” she
told reporters after the hearing. “We have a lot of market-
sensitive information that we handle all the time and for that
reason we’re very careful about it. But we will go through a
complete review of our agency.”  The incident has drawn scrutiny on the world of political
intelligence firms, which sell investor clients information
about what action government agencies or legislators are likely
to take. Grassley has proposed that firms like Height register
their employees, much as lobbyists must do.  Cantor Endorsement  Tavenner’s confirmation hearing was largely amicable, as
her husband, daughter and son-in-law watched from the front row
of the audience. U.S. Representative  Eric Cantor , the Virginia
Republican who is the House majority leader, introduced Tavenner
and endorsed her.  Tavenner, 61, would be the first confirmed administrator of
the Medicare agency since 2006. She is a former executive at  HCA
Holdings Inc. (HCA) , the largest publicly traded U.S. hospital
company, and a former Virginia Secretary of Health and Human
Resources. Tavenner told senators she would recuse herself from
U.S. decisions involving HCA or the Virginia state government.  One decision her agency faces is whether state governments
may use Medicaid money to allow newly eligible recipients to buy
private health insurance. Medicaid is the joint federal-state
medical program for the poor.  Arkansas  Governor Mike Beebe, a Democrat, is negotiating
with his state’s Republican-led legislature to expand Medicaid
as set out in the Affordable Care Act, the 2010 health overhaul.
Beebe has asked Tavenner’s agency to allow the state to spend
Medicaid money on private insurance for those new participants.  Senator John D. Rockefeller IV, a West Virginia Democrat,
asked Tavenner why she would allow such a plan, which he said
would cost more than covering people with state-run Medicaid.  Tavenner told Rockefeller that her agency has no “formal
proposal” from Arkansas and “we have not approved anything.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net ;
Drew Armstrong in  New York  at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  