-- EE Sees 1 Million 4G Customers by End of 2013 in Speed Boost
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-04-09T08:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/ee-sees-1-million-4g-customers-by-end-of-2013-in-speed-boost.html
EE, the U.K. joint venture owned by
 Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  and  France Telecom SA (FTE) , aims to have 1
million customers on its faster, fourth-generation mobile-phone
network by the end of the year as it increases speeds ahead of
rivals’ rollouts.  EE plans to almost double average speeds to more than 20
megabits per second in 10 markets by summer, the company said in
a statement. EE declined to comment on how many 4G customers it
has now.  The company, which has 27 million subscribers, is taking
advantage of the last days of its exclusive hold on the 4G
market before  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  and  Telefonica SA (TEF) ’s O2 begin
offering their own high-speed services later this year. EE has
become the biggest U.K. wireless carrier since it was formed in
2009, attracting interest from private-equity firms as its
parents debate how best to take a profit from their investment,
including a possible initial public offering.  “Our existing rollout of 4G is incredibly fast,” EE Chief
Executive Officer Olaf Swantee said in an interview. The upgrade
“demonstrates true network leadership and a commitment to
innovating within our network all the time.”  About two-thirds of the upgrades to 4G are expected to come
from existing customers, Swantee said. The company also runs the
Orange and T-Mobile brands in the U.K.  France Telecom  and Deutsche Telekom have said they’ve
considered an IPO of shares in EE as both companies grapple with
struggling European territories. The IPO would happen in the
fourth quarter at the earliest and involve only a minority
stake, Deutsche Telekom’s Chief Financial Officer Timotheus Hoettges said in February.  EE was formed in 2009 from a combination of Orange and T-
Mobile brands and got a head start on 4G in the U.K. when it was
allowed to offer the faster services on existing spectrum, while
rivals had to wait to acquire what they needed in an auction
this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  