-- Egypt Ministers Head to Qatar as IMF Team Reviews Loan Request
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y
-- 2013-04-09T11:50:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/egypt-ministers-head-to-qatar-as-imf-team-reviews-loan-request.html
Top Egyptian ministers headed to
Qatar, the Gulf Arab state that’s played a key role in keeping
the country’s economy afloat, as an International Monetary Fund
team in Cairo studied their loan request.  Prime Minister Hisham Qandil, along with the planning,
investment and industry ministers, will discuss economic issues
as part of broader talks on boosting relations with Qatar, the
state-run Middle East News Agency reported.  The trip comes as Mursi’s government pushes to complete a
long-delayed IMF loan bid they say is key to unlocking billions
more in foreign aid and funds critical for bridging the budget
deficit and buoying the economy.  Egypt’s foreign reserves have tumbled to $13.4 billion, 60
percent below their levels a month before the January 2011
uprising that toppled  Hosni Mubarak , even after Qatar
contributed $5 billion in deposits and loans. The decline has
amplified the crisis facing the Arab world’s most populous
nation as protests over wages and rising inflation contribute to
the political instability that’s kept investors out.  “The situation in Egypt has materially worsened” this
year, HSBC economists Simon Williams and Liz Martins wrote in a
report published yesterday. With parliamentary elections
delayed, “the transition process remains stalled and the window
for recovery is narrowing.”  IMF Unconvinced  Planning Minister Ashraf El-Arabi has said he expects a
preliminary deal with the IMF by the end of the technical team’s
current visit. He said in an April 6 interview that the size of
the loan will be determined after the talks based on  Egypt ’s
financing needs, which are expected to increase, and a revised
economic program submitted to the IMF. Egypt’s current
application is for $4.8 billion.  The IMF is unconvinced by Egypt’s program and has asked for
stronger measures, the independent Al-Borsa newspaper reported
today, citing an unidentified Finance Ministry official.  Separately, President Mohamed Mursi’s foreign affairs
adviser headed to  Russia  for economic and trade talks with
officials there, the presidency said in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  