-- Egypt Boosts Deposit Auction Size Amid Higher Inflation Bets
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2013-04-09T14:22:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/egypt-boosts-deposit-auction-size-amid-higher-inflation-bets-1-.html
Egypt  increased deposit agreement
sales by 64 percent today as the central bank seeks to absorb
excess funds before a government report that may show inflation
accelerated. The benchmark eurobonds advanced.  The central bank accepted bids for 23 billion Egyptian
pounds ($3.4 billion) of the contracts, compared with 14 billion
pounds on April 2, according to its data on Bloomberg. It
received total bids valued at 29.3 billion pounds. The contracts
allow lenders to deposit funds for a week at a fixed annual
interest rate of 10.25 percent.  The auction comes a day before Egypt’s statistics agency
releases  urban consumer price  data for March that may show
annual inflation accelerated to 8.8 percent from 8.2 percent a
month earlier, the median estimate of four economists surveyed
by Bloomberg shows. The central bank raised benchmark interest
rates last month after the inflation climbed for three months
amid a slump in the local currency.  “Effectively, this is about constraining excess
liquidity,” Neil Shearing, chief  emerging markets  economist at
London-based Capital Economics Ltd., said by phone. “In a
perfect environment, reducing the supply of money in the system
would lower inflation. But there are much bigger issues for
inflation in Egypt, like the weakening pound and the effects
controls on access to foreign currency are having on the
country’s ability to import staple goods.”  Weakening Pound  The Egyptian pound weakened as the central bank introduced
currency auctions to limit lenders’ access to U.S. dollars in a
bid to conserve foreign reserves. The pound has depreciated 9.6
percent to 6.8491 a dollar since the auctions started Dec. 30.
The currency traded at 7.85 a dollar on the unregulated market
last week, according to the average of three dealers interviewed
by Bloomberg.  The country’s $1 billion of 5.75 percent notes due in April
2020 have rallied this month as the government holds talks in
Cairo with the International Monetary Fund for a $4.8 billion
loan.  The yield on the notes fell for a fifth day, dropping eight
basis points, or 0.08 of a percentage point, to 7.42 percent as
of 4:21 p.m. in Cairo. The yield plunged 77 basis points last
week after climbing 127 basis points in March, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  