-- Egypt Pope Criticizes Mursi Over Sectarian Clashes Response
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y   a n d   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 2013-04-09T13:06:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/egypt-pope-says-feelings-not-enough-after-sectarian-clashes.html
Egypt’s Coptic pope criticized the
Islamist president’s handling of the worst sectarian clashes in
months, and demanded stronger action against violence that has
deepened the nation’s rifts.  Days of Muslim-Christian fighting outside a Coptic
cathedral in Cairo and in a nearby town have left at least eight
dead, most of them Christians. President Mohamed Mursi demanded
an investigation into the violence, vowed the perpetrators would
be brought to justice and ordered the revival of a little-known
body charged with tackling discrimination.  These and other government measures failed to allay
concerns of the minority Christians, who had long complained of
discrimination under former Egyptian leader  Hosni Mubarak  and
say their lot has worsened since his 2011 ouster.  Mursi, in a phone call, had promised to do “everything to
protect the cathedral, but in reality, he did not,” Pope
Tawadros II said in a phone interview with the independent ONTV
satellite channel today. Mursi’s handling of events falls under
the realm of “negligence and poor assessment of events,” the
pope said, adding that the Coptic Church had never come under
“such a blatant attack” in 2,000 years.  “It crossed all the red lines,” he said.  Strongest Criticism  The pontiff’s rebuke was his strongest criticism of the
government since the violence broke out over the weekend,
compounding the chronic instability gripping  Egypt  since Mubarak
was toppled. Days earlier, Mursi called Tawadros to condemn the
violence, saying an attack on the church was tantamount to an
attack on him.  The president’s office did not immediately respond to an e-
mail seeking comment.  The violence has intensified concerns among both Copts, who
make up 10 percent of Egypt’s population, and secular critics of
Mursi about their future under his Islamist government.  Several opposition and youth activist groups called for a
mass march today to the Cairo cathedral that was attacked days
earlier, in support of the Christians and a unified Egypt.  IMF Loan Bid  The tensions come as the government negotiates with the
International Monetary Fund over a long-stalled $4.8 billion
loan bid. Officials say the foreign funds are sorely needed to
revive the country’s battered economy, which has struggled to
rebound since the 2011 uprising.  Foreign currency reserves have plunged more than 60 percent
below their December 2010 levels, the Egyptian pound is down 7
percent against the dollar since the start of the year and
inflation has climbed.  The IMF sees the government’s proposed economic program as
insufficient, the independent Al-Borsa newspaper reported today,
citing an unidentified Finance Ministry official.  The sectarian violence has mired Egypt in even deeper
trouble. The unrest began April 5 with deadly clashes in
Khosous, then swung to the capital, where a mob attacked
mourners at the main Coptic cathedral, then back to Khosous. At
least eight people were killed.  Mursi ordered an investigation and late yesterday revived
the National Council for Justice and Equality, which functioned
briefly after Mubarak’s ouster.  Actions, Not Words  “We’ve seen enough committees being formed,” Tawadros
said in his TV interview. “We want actions, not words.”  In an earlier interview with the Coptic EMSat channel,
Tawadros said he appreciated “the feelings of the president and
the government, but feelings are not enough.”  “There should be decisive, clear and satisfactory
decisions,” he said, adding that the security forces’ response
“sparks suspicions of dereliction of duty or miscalculation of
the situation.”  The president’s office, in a statement posted late
yesterday on the Facebook page of Mursi’s foreign affairs
adviser, condemned the unrest and said it would not allow “any
attempts to divide the nation, incite sedition or drive a wedge
among Egyptians under any pretense.”  The Facebook statement said the clashes in Khosous began
after an argument over Christian symbols scrawled on the wall of
an Islamic building. The fighting near the cathedral erupted
after mourners “vandalized” cars in the street, outraging
residents who attacked them with rocks and firecrackers, the
statement said.  Injustice Seen  “As usual, the government just wants things to pass
without holding anyone accountable,” Father Angelos Isaac,
Tawadros’ secretary, said in a phone interview. “The story is
not just Copts, it’s about injustice in general.”  He said many Copts had fled the country since Mursi came to
power, despite the church’s efforts to reassure them. “The new
constitution just made things worse,” Isaac said of the
Islamist-backed charter Mursi pushed through. He did not say how
many Copts had left.  “Where is equality? Where is the representation of Copts
in the government?” he asked. “Where are the principles of the
Egyptian revolution?”  Nobel Laureate Mohamed ElBaradei, a prominent member of the
National Salvation Front bloc, yesterday laid the blame for what
he saw as the rise in sectarianism on the government, and said
the nation needed “serious” national dialogue.  Mursi must realize that “time is not on his side,”
ElBaradei said, speaking during an economic conference organized
by some in the opposition.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net ;
Salma El Wardany in Cairo at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  