-- Telefonica Said to Be Willing to Sell Telecom Italia Stake
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i   a n d   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 2013-04-09T19:49:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/telefonica-is-said-to-be-willing-to-sell-telecom-italia-stake.html
Telefonica SA (TEF)  is willing to exit its
six-year investment in Telecom Italia SpA as  Italy ’s largest
phone company considers a combination with  Hutchison Whampoa
Ltd. (13) ’s wireless business in the country, according to two people
with knowledge of the matter.  Telefonica is ready to sell its indirect 10.5 percent stake
in Telecom Italia as the carriers have failed to generate
synergies over the years, said the people, asking not to be
identified because the deliberations are private. No decision
has been made and Madrid-based Telefonica would be reluctant to
do a deal in which it would take further  losses .  Based on the holding’s market value of 1.2 billion euros
($1.6 billion), Telefonica has lost more than 1 billion euros
since the initial 2007 investment. Telecom Italia said last week
it’s held preliminary contacts with Hong Kong-based Hutchison,
the owner of Italy’s smallest network operator H3G, about a
potential combination of their businesses, which may give
Telefonica and other Telecom Italia investors a chance to exit.  “It will be almost impossible for Telefonica or Telco to
find a serious buyer willing to purchase their stake in Telecom
Italia due to the huge amount of debt Telecom Italia holds,”
Luis Benguerel, an equity trader at Interbrokers in Barcelona,
said by phone today.  Board Meeting  Telco is the holding company through which Telefonica,
 Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) ,  Assicurazioni Generali SpA (G)  and  Mediobanca
SpA (MB)  own 22.4 percent of Milan-based Telecom Italia. In February,
Telco wrote down the value of the stake by about $1.2 billion,
to 1.20 euros a share from 1.50 euros. That’s still double
Telecom Italia’s share price on the Milan exchange.  A Telefonica official declined to comment on any potential
plans to sell its Telecom Italia holding. Representatives from
Generali, Intesa and Mediobanca also declined to comment.  In a statement released after market close today, Telco
said it hasn’t spoken with or exchanged information with Telecom
Italia and Hutchison, nor was it aware of its shareholders
having contacts with the companies on the issue.  Telecom Italia reiterated in a separate statement that its
discussions with billionaire  Li Ka-shing ’s Hutchison will be a
topic for a board meeting scheduled for April 11.  Telecom Italia closed 3.8 percent higher at 59.6 cents in
Milan, paring earlier gains of as much as 6.3 percent.
Telefonica added 1.1 percent to 10.50 euros on the Madrid
exchange.  ‘Very Steep’  Credit-default swaps insuring Telefonica’s debt for five
years declined 7.9 basis points to 220 basis points, the lowest
in three months, signaling improving creditworthiness. The
derivatives pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a borrower
fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Hutchison Whampoa may want as much as 29.9 percent of
Telecom Italia at no more than 1.20 euros a share, Il Messaggero
reported today, without citing anyone.  “A combination of Telecom Italia with Hutchison makes
sense from an industrial point of view,” said Emanuele Vizzini,
chief investment officer at Investitori Sgr, which owns
Telefonica and Telecom Italia shares. “Per share price of 1.2
euros is very steep and not justified by company’s fundamentals,
so it would be very hard to find a buyer.”  An exit from Italy would be in line with Telefonica’s plan
to focus on European markets such as  Germany  and the U.K. and
lower debt to avert further cuts by rating companies. Other
assets on a list of potential businesses for sale include its
Irish and Czech divisions, a minority stake in China Unicom
(Hong Kong) Ltd. and assets in Central America, people familiar
with the matter have said.  Blocking Slim  In 2007, Telefonica and the Italian financial investors
beat billionaire  Carlos Slim  to secure a stake in Telecom Italia
for 4.1 billion euros. Telecom Italia’s market value has since
shrunk more than 70 percent. Slim’s America Movil SAB last year
made its first major foray in  Europe ’s telecommunications
industry, acquiring stakes in Royal KPN NV and Telekom Austria
AG.  Mediobanca plans to present a new strategy by June,
including a review of the lender’s stake in publicly traded
companies, Chief Executive Officer Alberto Nagel said Feb. 26,
reiterating that Mediobanca’s “equity exposure is too high.”  For Hutchison, Telecom Italia’s high net debt, which
reached 28.3 billion euros at the end of last year, is a
concern, another person familiar with the matter said. Based on
H3G’s reported earnings and multiples of publicly-traded
European carriers compiled by Bloomberg, the unit could be
valued at about 1.5 billion euros without a premium.  Hutchison “confirms there have been preliminary
exploratory contacts between  Telecom Italia SpA (TIT)  and 3 Italia SpA
as to possible business combinations between them,” it
reiterated in an e-mailed statement today.  Hutchison held discussions in 2010 over a sale of the
business to Telecom Italia, and the talks didn’t result in a
deal because of differences in valuation, people with knowledge
of the matter said at the time.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net ;
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  