-- Emerging Stocks Rally Most in One Month as Brazil Jumps
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v   a n d   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-04-09T21:40:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/emerging-stocks-snap-six-day-slide-after-china-inflation-eases.html
Emerging-market stocks had the
biggest advance in a month, led by Brazilian equities, as
commodity producers surged after data showing slower inflation
in  China  eased pressure for monetary tightening.  China National Building Material Co. jumped 5.8 percent in
 Hong Kong , while Drake & Scull International PJSC sent Dubai
shares to the highest level since 2009. OAO Lukoil,  Russia ’s
biggest non-state oil company, added 2.1 percent.  Brazil ’s
 Bovespa (IBOV)  index gained the most in a month as iron-ore producer
Vale SA rallied.  Thailand ’s baht breached 29 per dollar for the
first time since 1997 and  South Korea ’s won strengthened.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index added 0.9 percent to
1,015.93 in  New York , rebounding from the lowest level since
Nov. 30. China’s inflation eased more than forecast from a 10-month high as food-price gains ebbed, reducing pressure on
policy makers to tighten credit as the world’s second-largest
economy recovers from a slowdown.  “Prospects for emerging markets still look great,”
Alistair Way, the Edinburgh-based investment director for
emerging market equities at Standard Life Investments Ltd, said
in a phone interview. His firm manages about $272.6 billion. The
Chinese data “is broadly a positive,” he said.  Commodity shares rose the most among 10 groups in the MSCI
 Emerging Markets  Index, adding at least 1.2 percent. The broader
index has lost 3.7 percent this year, compared with a 7.1
percent gain in the MSCI World Index of developed-country
stocks. The developing-nations measure trades at 10.6 times
 estimated  12-month earnings, compared with the MSCI World’s
multiple of 13.9, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  BRIC Rally  The MSCI BRIC Index of stocks in the biggest emerging
markets surged 1.4 percent. The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets
Index exchange-traded fund rose 1 percent to $42.09. The Chicago
Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a
gauge of options prices on the fund and expectations of price
swings, slid 3.9 percent to 18.02.  Brazil’s Bovespa added 1.5 percent as exporters rallied
after China’s inflation data boosted the economic outlook for
the nation’s top trading partner. Vale surged 4.2 percent.  Telecom Argentina SA jumped 4.4 percent to a record in
 Buenos Aires . The company’s board accepted the resignation of
Norberto Berner as director of the company representing the
Argentine government, according to a filing today. The Mexican
IPC Index gained 1.2 percent.  Russian shares rebounded from a four-month low as crude
oil, the nation’s chief export earner, rose. The  Micex Index (INDEXCF) 
climbed for the first time in five days, adding 1.2 percent.
Lukoil jumped the most since Nov. 30. Benchmark gauges in
Hungary and  Poland  also gained.  China, Dubai  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index increased 1.7
percent, while the Shanghai Composite Index added 0.6 percent.
China National Building Material, a cement maker, jumped the
most since October.  Dubai’s DFM General Index climbed 2.4 percent to the
highest since  November 2009 (DFMGI) , amid investor speculation first-quarter corporate profits may beat estimates and as banks repaid
state loans ahead of time. Drake & Scull rallied 5.2 percent
amid speculation the Dubai-based builder may be acquired. The
company said it’s not a target.  India ’s benchmark stock index fell to a seven-month low
amid concern company earnings will trail analysts’ estimates.
 Wipro Ltd. (WPRO)  plunged the most in more than four years after the
nation’s third-biggest software maker began trading without its
three non-technology divisions.  Thailand’s baht jumped as demand for the nation’s bonds
rose amid unprecedented monetary easing in  Japan . The won
rebounded after falling to an eight-month low as investors
judged its recent slump to be excessive.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries dropped six basis points, or 0.06
percentage point, to 283 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  