-- Ten Network Posts Record A$243 Million Loss as Ratings Slip
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2013-04-09T09:15:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/ten-network-posts-record-a-243-million-loss-as-audience-dwindles.html
Ten Network Holdings Ltd. (TEN) , the
Australian television company which counts Lachlan Murdoch as
chairman, posted a record first-half loss as it wrote down its
broadcast license amid a ratings slump.  The net loss was A$243 million ($253 million) in the six
months ended Feb. 28, compared with profit of A$14.8 million a
year earlier, the Sydney-based company said in a regulatory
statement today. Sales fell 22 percent to A$337 million.  Ten will work to reduce costs amid disappointing ratings
this year, Chief Executive Officer Hamish McLennan said in the
statement. The company’s performance has been
“unsatisfactory,” said McLennan, who is also an executive vice
president at  News Corp ., run by Lachlan’s father  Rupert Murdoch .  “The issues facing Ten have no quick fix,” Jarrod McDonald, an analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Sydney, wrote in
a note to clients on March 26. “We see any potential turnaround
requiring time and re-investment.”  Ten climbed 6.8 percent to close at 31.5 Australian cents
in Sydney, the biggest increase since March 1. Today’s gain
trimmed its decline over the past year to 48 percent, compared
with a 15 percent advance for  Australia ’s benchmark S&P/ASX 200
Index.  The company twice sold stock over the past year to pay debt
and turned off advertisers with programming flops, including a
talent show hosted by  Lachlan Murdoch ’s wife Sarah that was
canceled within weeks of its first broadcast in August.  Southern Cross Media Ltd., which pays Ten to rebroadcast
its programs in regional areas, may switch to Nine Entertainment
Co., cutting millions of dollars worth of revenue, according to
 CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. (CIMB)   Southern Cross  Excluding one-time items, Ten had net income of A$6.8
million, compared with the A$18 million loss foreseen by
analysts, based on the average of three  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg.  Southern Cross pays about 30 percent of annual revenue to
Ten in return for rights to its content, CIMB’s Fraser McLeish
wrote in a note to clients March 4. That would have been
equivalent to about A$205 million in the 12 months through June
2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Ten’s ratings weakness provides a strong incentive for
 Southern Cross  to switch content providers,” McLeish wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  