-- EON Seeks Support for Newest Gas-Power Plant in Regulator Talks
-- B y   T i n o   A n d r e s e n   a n d   J u l i a   M e n g e w e i n
-- 2013-04-09T15:05:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/eon-seeks-support-for-newest-gas-power-plant-in-regulator-talks.html
EON SE, the largest German utility,
is seeking support for its newest gas-fired power station in
talks with the regulator as electricity generators burning the
fuel rather than cheaper coal struggle to turn a profit.  The Irsching 4 plant, opened less than two years ago, joins
the company’s earlier Irsching 5 power station in looking for
help, according to the Dusseldorf-based energy producer.  “Irsching 4 is facing similar problems as Irsching 5 and
we’re looking for a similar solution,” Christian Drepper, a
spokesman at EON, said by phone from the company’s home city.  The company, which has been negotiating with grid regulator
Bundesnetzagentur and network operator TenneT TSO GmbH over the
future of the 845-megawatt Irsching 5, said Dec. 7 it wanted
“economic compensation” for the owners of the power plant.  Irsching 5 operated less than a quarter of the time in 2012
as slowing economies cut power prices. The plant is struggling
to compete with wind and solar generation that gets preferential
access to the grid, and coal-fired stations that benefited from
a slump in the cost of carbon permits needed to burn the fuel.
Irsching 4, with a capacity of 550 megawatts, is the world’s
most efficient combined cycle gas turbine plant, EON says.  “Even state-of-the-art gas-fired power plants cannot be
operated profitably,” Daniel Seidenspinner, an analyst at B.
Metzler Seel Sohn & Co. KGaA, said from  Frankfurt . “That
confirms how much renewable energies affect the profitability of
conventional power plants. The runtime of the power plants
declines and also the wholesale prices for electricity.”  Spark Spread  Natural gas fueled 11 percent of  Germany ’s power output
last year, down 2.3 percentage points from a year earlier.  The difference between the cost of fuel and the price paid
for the power generated, the so-called spark spread, for the
month ahead was minus 22.42 euros a megawatt-hour today.  “We are not willing to run loss-making plants where we
don’t see any chance of a recovery,” EON Chief Executive
Officer Johannes Teyssen said in January. “It’s not possible to
operate gas-fired power plants however clean, efficient and good
for the climate and the country they may be.”  Germany needs flexible gas plants to underpin renewable
sources if the country’s exit from nuclear power is to succeed,
German Environment Minister  Peter Altmaier  said the same month.  The grid regulator wasn’t immediately able to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tino Andresen in Dusseldorf at 
 tandresen1@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Mengewein in Frankfurt at 
 jmengewein@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  