-- Tepco Says Fukushima Plant May Have Another Toxic Water Leak
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 2013-04-09T07:17:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/tepco-s-fukushima-plant-may-have-another-radioactive-water-leak.html
A new leak of toxic radioactive
water, the third in a week, may have sprung from one of the
seven underground storage tanks at  Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501) ’s
Fukushima plant.  The leak was discovered as Tepco, as the company is known,
transferred radioactive water to the No. 1 underground pool from
the No. 2 tank where a separate escape of water was found last
week, Masayuki Ono, a senior official at Tepco’s nuclear power
and plant siting division, told reporters in Tokyo today. The
transfer of contaminated water to the No. 1 tank has been
suspended, he said.  “We cannot stop using all the underground tanks right away
because we don’t have enough ground storage space,” he said.
Tepco is trying to find space where the remaining water from the
leaking underground pools can be stored, Ono said.  The leaks have been found in the pools where Tepco stores
some of the nearly 280,000 tons of highly radioactive water used
to cool the crippled reactors at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant.
The latest leak highlights missteps in Tepco’s management of
radioactive water after the March 2011 quake and tsunami led to
three reactors melting down and the escape of radiation, causing
the evacuation of about 160,000 people.  Tepco is still investigating the cause of leaks and doesn’t
know how much water may have gotten out of the No. 1 tank, Ono
said.  Tepco yesterday said about 167 tons of radioactive water
may escape the No. 2 underground tank while as much as 3 liters
of contaminated water may have leaked from the No. 3 tank.  Water Transfers  The company had planned to complete transferring the
remaining water stored in the No. 2 tank to other underground
pools by tomorrow, Japan’s nuclear regulator said earlier today
in an e-mailed statement.  About 280,000 tons of highly radioactive water is stored in
tanks at the Dai-Ichi plant, according to Tepco’s latest data.
That’s enough to fill about 112 Olympic-sized swimming pools,
according to Bloomberg News calculations.  Tepco plans to accelerate plans to install new tanks that
can store 126,000 tons of water as much as possible, Tepco
spokesman Masateru Araki said. The utility originally planned to
complete the construction of the additional tanks by the end of
September, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  