-- Merck Knew of Fosamax Bone Risk in ’90, Lawyer Tells Jury
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2013-04-09T18:18:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/merck-trial-begins-on-claim-fosamax-causes-bone-breaks.html
Merck & Co. (MRK)  was aware its  Fosamax 
osteoporosis treatment might cause brittle bones and increase
fracture risks years before the drug was made available to the
public, a lawyer told a jury at the start of a lawsuit trial.  Starting in 1990, five years before Fosamax won approval by
U.S. regulators, consultants began warning Merck that the drug
could lead to spontaneous fractures in some users by preventing
bones’ natural daily repair of so-called micro-fractures, Paul Pennock, the lawyer for plaintiff Bernadette Glynn, said today
in federal court in Trenton, New Jersey.  “This company should have warned of the problems that they
saw coming,” Pennock said in his opening statements to the
jury, while holding a life-size replica of a thigh bone. “The
company should have warned of the problems they learned actually
were happening -- that’s an obligation of the company.”  Merck, based in  Whitehouse Station , New Jersey, faces about
3,300 femur-fracture suits. Glynn, 58, may the first such
claimant to get a jury verdict, after an earlier lawsuit ended
in mistrial last month. The case may be a bellwether revealing
litigation strategy and potential damages awards.  The trial before the jury of three men and five women
chosen yesterday is scheduled to last three weeks and will hear
from medical experts on both sides of the dispute.  ‘Theoretical’ Warnings  The second-biggest U.S. drugmaker denies the claims. Its
lawyer, Chilton Varner, said the consultants’ early warnings
were “theoretical” and that early studies showed people who
took Fosamax instead of a placebo had fewer fractures.  Glynn, an elementary school worker from Cohoes,  New York ,
who regularly takes long bike rides and yoga classes, claims
Fosamax weakened her femur over a seven-year period, causing the
leg bone to snap in April 2009, when she bent over in her garage
to pick up a frog-shaped lawn ornament while gardening.  Glynn’s leg was repaired with surgery and the use of rods,
according to her complaint. She and her husband, who sued in
September 2011, appeared in court today with their children. She
has never had osteoporosis and was prescribed the drug due to
low bone-mass density, her lawyer said.  Merck claims Glynn’s fracture was the result of her bone
condition, and that tests showed Fosamax had helped. Merck also
claims Glynn broke her leg after tripping over a chain saw in
her garage and falling down -- a description Merck says she gave
to emergency workers on the day of the accident.  ‘Spontaneous Fractures’  “You might think from what you’ve heard this morning that
Fosamax causes these spontaneous fractures,” Varner said in her
opening statements. “Such fractures occur in people who have
never taken Fosamax as well as people who have -- such fractures
have occurred long before Fosamax.”  Merck also denies claims that doctors and patients weren’t
properly warned when the company learned of reports that Fosamax
could cause so-called atypical femur fractures in some people --
a warning that went on the drug’s label in 2009.  Merck also says that regardless of what was on the label
and when, Glynn’s fracture wasn’t atypical, because the break
was spiral in nature instead of straight across, the bone broke
into more than two pieces, and the wound healed quickly. Varner
also said that Fosamax doesn’t accumulate in the part of the
bone that fractured in Glynn’s case.  Strongest Bones  Pennock said femurs, as the strongest bones in the body,
usually only break in high-force incidents, such as car
accidents, and not from falling down. Because Fosamax is
designed to repair daily bone damage by stopping the natural
clearing of old bone, the process results in micro-fractures
building up instead of being naturally replaced, he said.  “The evidence is going to show you that it wasn’t a
surprise -- it wasn’t coming out of the blue,” he said of
Merck’s discovery of Fosamax’s possible fracture risks. “They
looked for it and studied it -- when all the information
starting coming in, they did nothing about it.”  The company faces another 1,230 cases alleging Fosamax
caused similar fractures in jaws.  The case is Glynn v. Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., 3:11-
cv-05304, U.S. District Court, District of  New Jersey  (Trenton)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in federal court in Trenton, New Jersey, at
   elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  