-- EU Said to Push to Fine Banks on Yen Libor, Euribor Rates
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2013-04-09T13:30:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/eu-said-to-push-to-fine-banks-over-yen-libor-and-euribor-rates.html
European Union regulators are
pushing to fine banks before the end of the year for attempting
to fix benchmark  interest rates  tied to the euro and yen
currencies, two people familiar with the investigation said.  Several banks want to resolve the antitrust probe and may
negotiate with the EU for a settlement as early as October, said
the people, who asked not to be named because the talks are in
private. The EU would seek to include U.S. firms, such Citigroup
Inc., that so far haven’t been punished by U.K. or U.S.
regulators, one of the people said.  The European Commission’s investigations into price-fixing
of the yen  London  interbank offered rate and euro Euribor are a
top priority for the EU’s antitrust chief,  Joaquin Almunia , and
officials are working overtime and limiting vacations to wrap up
the probes, the people said. Almunia has previously described
Libor-fixing as “quite shocking” and has warned that any fines
would “not be one euro.”  If Almunia wants to end the Libor investigations before he
leaves office next year, he would have to seek a settlement with
the companies, said Nicolas Petit, a law professor at the
University of Liege in  Belgium . “There’s no way they can close
this cartel within two years without a settlement,” he said.  The alternative is a lengthier process to finalize cartel
fines that takes an average of four years, Petit said, and may
take longer for such a complex case with “a very extensive
practice that covers a number of countries, a lot of products.”  Swiss Franc  The EU is also investigating the possible rigging of  Swiss
franc  Libor, Almunia has said. That case is less advanced than
the EU’s probes into the yen Libor, the cost of borrowing in the
Japanese currency, and Euribor rates and unlikely to be
completed this year, according to the two people.  Any settlement would include fines and an admission that
the companies violated competition rules, one of the people
said.  Barclays Plc (BARC) , Deutsche Bank AG, UBS AG and Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc are among banks and brokerages that have been
quizzed by the EU about manipulation of lending rates that may
have helped them and others generate profits from derivatives
trades. Even minor tweaks to the rate by one bank would benefit
trading positions to net millions of euros in profit, one of the
people said.  U.S. Banks  The EU may seek to include Citigroup and other U.S. banks
as part of any EU settlement or complaint, the person said. The
New York-based bank said in a regulatory filing last month that
it was subject to extensive legal and regulatory investigations
related to Libor, including in the EU. Citigroup spokesman Jeff
French declined to comment.  At least one other U.S. bank,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , said it
has been contacted by investigators in the EU. JPMorgan
spokesman  Brian Marchiony  also declined to comment.  Barclays, UBS and RBS have already paid more than $2.5
billion in fines to settle Libor manipulation claims with U.S.
and U.K. financial regulators. Rabobank Groep, the Dutch
agricultural lender, is next in line and faces a fine of more
than the 290 million pounds penalty levied against Barclays,
four people said in February. Deutsche Bank has set aside 500
million euros for possible Libor fines, German magazine  Der
Spiegel  reported last month, without saying where it got the
information.  Antoine Colombani, a spokesman for the Brussels-based
authority, said the EU’s cases are ongoing.  High Priority  “We are treating them with a high degree of priority, but
as with all antitrust investigations, I cannot anticipate
timing,” he said in an e-mail.  The EU is treating the collusion as a price-fixing cartel
that can be punished under its antitrust rules. That means fines
can be as much as 10 percent of a company’s yearly global
revenue and are based on its annual sales in the market where it
tried to fix prices, though authorities rarely impose the
maximum.  The EU is behind the U.S. in announcing an end to its Libor
investigations because it can’t settle with companies
individually and must levy penalties against all targets of its
case at the same time. The regulator must negotiate with all the
companies to speed up a decision and in order to grant them a
discount of as much as 10 percent on any fine for cooperating.  The settlement may not be possible if most or all the firms
can’t negotiate a deal, one of the people said. If talks break
down, the commission may require more time to draft detailed
formal objections before imposing fines.  Little Incentive  Petit warned that the minor fine reductions for a
settlement give very little incentive for companies to reach a
deal because other users of the rate will sue firms for over-
charging them as a result of rate-rigging.  “Given that the potential for follow-on litigation is
quite high, I can’t really understand why these banks would be
hungry for a settlement in which they would give the commission
the rope to hang themselves with,” Petit said.  Almunia, previously the EU’s economy commissioner during
the 2007 and 2008 financial crisis, has used his powers as an
antitrust enforcer to focus on the financial industry. He told
reporters last year that Libor-rigging showed some of banks’
“most irresponsible behavior” and that a culture change was
needed to eliminate a lack of transparency that tempted
companies to flout competition rules.  Swaps Probes  The EU is also probing possible collusion involving Markit
Group Ltd., the International Swaps & Derivatives Association
and 16 investment banks including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and
JPMorgan Chase & Co. on how data on  credit derivatives  is
shared. The EU levied a record 1.47 billion euros ($1.9 billion)
in fines on a TV-parts cartel last year.  Libor, a benchmark for more than $300 trillion of financial
products worldwide, is derived from a survey of banks conducted
each day on behalf of the British Bankers’ Association in
London. Lenders are asked how much it would cost them to borrow
from one another for 15 different periods, from overnight to one
year, in currencies including dollars, euros, yen and francs.  Euribor is a benchmark derived from a daily survey of
lending quotes conducted for Euribor-EBF by Thomson Reuters
Corp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 