-- European Stocks Are Little Changed; Lagardere Falls
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2013-04-09T16:01:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/europe-stock-futures-rise-as-investors-watch-u-s-results.html
European (SXXP)  stocks climbed as mining
shares rallied and Alcoa Inc. began the U.S. earnings season
with profit that beat analysts’ estimates.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and  Rio Tinto  Group, the world’s largest
mining companies, advanced at least 3.5 percent. Repsol SA
increased the most in a month after saying it discovered natural
gas in Algeria.  Lagardere SCA (MMB)  lost the most in four months after
selling its stake in European, Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index added 0.2 percent to 288.07 at
the close of trading. The gauge yesterday rebounded from the
biggest three-day selloff since July as German industrial output
increased more than forecast. The measure has gained 3 percent
this year as U.S. lawmakers agreed on a compromise budget and
data fueled optimism the world’s biggest economy is recovering.  “It’s very much the U.S. first but Europe not that far
behind,”  Kevin Gardiner , head of investment strategy for
Europe,  Middle East  and  Africa  at Barclays Plc’s wealth-
management unit in  London , told Francine Lacqua on Bloomberg
Television. “Although the  euro zone  itself is not growing very
quickly, if the global economy is growing OK, that’ll help the
European exporters and the big multinationals in European
exchanges to do pretty well too.”  The volume of shares changing hands in Stoxx 600 companies
was 18 percent lower than the average of the last 30 days,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  U.S. Earnings  Alcoa, the largest U.S. aluminum producer, late yesterday
posted first-quarter earnings excluding an income-tax benefit
and other one-time items of 11 cents a share, beating the 8
cent-average analyst forecast. Earnings at companies in the  S&P
500 Index  may drop 1.8 percent in the first quarter, according
to estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  In  China , the  consumer price index  rose 2.1 percent in
March from a year earlier, the National Bureau of Statistics
said. That compares with the 2.5 percent median estimate of
economists in a Bloomberg News survey and a 3.2 percent gain in
February.  German exports fell in February more than economists
forecast.  Overseas shipments , adjusted for working days and
seasonal changes, dropped 1.5 percent from January, when they
gained 1.3 percent, the Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden
said today. Economists forecast a 0.3 percent decline, according
to the median of 15 estimates in a  Bloomberg News survey .  National benchmark indexes climbed in 15 of the 18 western
European markets. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index rose 0.6 percent,
France’s CAC 40 Index added 0.1 percent, while  Germany ’s DAX
Index slipped 0.3 percent.  U.K. Output  U.K. manufacturing rose twice as much as economists
forecast in February. Factory output increased 0.8 percent from
January, when it fell a revised 1.9 percent, the  Office for
National Statistics  said today in London. The median forecast of
29 economists in a Bloomberg News survey was for a gain of 0.4
percent. Overall industrial output rose 1 percent in February,
also exceeding the estimate of economists.  BHP added 3.5 percent to 1,944 pence and Rio Tinto rallied
4.8 percent to 3,135 pence as copper prices rose 2.3 percent in
London. Kazakhmys Plc jumped 5.6 percent to 393.5 pence.  A  gauge of commodity stocks  climbed 3.3 percent for the
best performance among the 19 industry groups in the Stoxx 600,
after dropping 4 percent last week.  The recent share-price weakness among U.K. mining companies
was driven by investor concern about China tightening credit and
the U.S. Federal Reserve ending its stimulus program and
represents a buying opportunity, UBS AG analysts led by Myles Allsop wrote, citing signs of improving demand.  Aurubis, Repsol  Aurubis AG, the second-largest refined copper producer,
gained 6 percent to 48.35 euros, its biggest advance since July
19, after Chief Executive Officer Peter Willbrandt said orders
in the U.S. are rebounding and European demand is slowly
improving.  Repsol SA advanced 3 percent to 16.53 euros after spokesman
Kristian Rix said the Spanish company encountered a 50-meter
column of gas in the Sud-Est Illizi block in  Algeria .  An  index of banking shares  was the second-best performer on
the Stoxx 600. The U.K.’s Barclays Plc climbed 3.2 percent to
286 pence, Switzerland’s Credit Suisse Group AG added 2.2
percent to 24.89 Swiss francs and Germany’s Deutsche Bank AG
added 3.1 percent to 31.12 euros.  Lagardere slipped 2.6 percent to 27.79 euros after the
Paris-based media company sold 61 million shares, or a 7.4
percent stake, in EADS for about 2.3 billion euros ($3 billion).
EADS slid 2.8 percent to 37.62 euros.  Adecco SA, the biggest supplier of temporary workers,
retreated 1.8 percent to 49.49 francs. Credit Suisse downgraded
the shares to neutral from outperform, citing a slowdown in the
U.S. and challenging market conditions in  Europe  for staffing
companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in London at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  