-- Ex-Aeropostale Executive Steered Deals, U.S. Tells Jury
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-04-09T17:09:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/ex-aeropostale-executive-steered-deals-u-s-tells-jury.html
Former  Aeropostale Inc. (ARO)  merchandise
executive Christopher Finazzo conspired to secretly steer
$350 million in purchase deals to a T-shirt vendor he co-owned
with a friend, a U.S. prosecutor said at the start of a trial in
 Brooklyn , New York.  Finazzo, 57, conspired with Douglas Dey, controlling owner
of South Bay Apparel Inc., to overcharge the New York-based teen
clothing retailer for merchandise and pocket the profits,
Assistant U.S. Attorney Winston M. Paes told jurors today during
opening statements in federal court.  “Through his scheme, he was stealing from Aeropostale,”
the prosecutor said in court before U.S. District Judge Roslynn R. Mauskopf. “He was not stealing from Aeropostale’s cash
register. He was smarter than that.”  The scheme netted Finazzo $25 million from about 1996 to
late 2006, on top of about $20 million in compensation he
received from the retailer, Paes told jurors. Finazzo is being
tried on 16 counts including conspiracy, mail fraud and  wire
fraud . The trial is expected to last three to four weeks.  Count Dismissed  Finazzo had been accused of making false statements in a
report filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
because his interest in the vendor hadn’t been disclosed.
Mauskopf dismissed the count today at the government’s request.  Finazzo could be sentenced to as long as 20 years in prison
if convicted of a fraud charge, according to prosecutors. Dey
pleaded guilty to a conspiracy count in September.  Evidence of Finazzo’s involvement with South Bay surfaced
in 2006 during an unrelated internal investigation, when Kroll
Inc. allegedly found an e-mail in Finazzo’s professional account
from his personal attorney, according to court filings. The
e-mail, which related to Finazzo’s efforts to create a will,
contained a list of assets that included an interest in  South
Bay , according to the filing.  In November 2006, Aeropostale’s then-chief executive
officer Julian Geiger and general counsel Edward Slezak
confronted Finazzo with their findings and fired him, according
to the filings.  Company E-Mail  Finazzo sought to prevent the government from using the
e-mail from his work account as evidence during the trial on
grounds of attorney-client privilege. In February, Mauskopf
ruled that Finazzo had no expectation of privacy on his company
e-mail. By communicating with his lawyer with it, he waived
privilege, the judge said.  The exit interview, which was recorded, will be played
during the trial, showing that “even as he was being fired, he
was trying to protect South Bay,” Paes said.  A lawyer for Finazzo, Robert J.A. Zito, said in his opening
statement that he didn’t dispute that his client directed
business to Dey and shared profits from the venture.  “What we are contesting are the characterizations of the
split profits,” Zito said.  Close relationships with vendors, including with South Bay,
helped boost Aeropostale’s sales from $123 million in 1997 to
$1.4 billion in 2006, the lawyer said. South Bay could replenish
popular T-shirt styles quickly, allowing the mall-based retailer
to stay on top of teen trends, he said.  ‘Powerful Person’  “Aeropostale didn’t lose a single penny from its
relationship with South Bay,” Zito said. “It made hundreds of
millions from this relationship.”  Finazzo, who sat next to his lawyers in a dark suit, tie
and glasses, was described by Paes as once the “second most
powerful person” at the retailer. Offering an alternative view,
Zito said his client was “not very sophisticated.”  “Chris Finazzo didn’t even graduate from college,” Zito
said.  Finazzo was indicted in June 2010 and pleaded not guilty
to the charges. He was released on $3 million bail.  The case is U.S. v. Finazzo, 10-cr-00457, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of  New York  (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  