-- Ex-Icahn’s Denner Said to Start Activist Health-Care Hedge Fund
-- B y   K e l l y   B i t   a n d   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2013-04-09T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/ex-icahn-s-denner-said-to-start-activist-health-care-hedge-fund.html
Alex Denner ,  Carl Icahn ’s former top
health-care investing executive, is starting an activist hedge-
fund firm called Sarissa Capital Management LP, according to
three people familiar with the matter.  Denner, 43, will begin Greenwich, Connecticut-based Sarissa
by next quarter with a seed investment from Meritage Group LP,
one of the people said. He will be joined by Mayu Sris, a former
investment analyst at Icahn Associates Corp. from 2005 to 2010,
as managing director at Sarissa and Richard Mulligan, a
professor of genetics at  Harvard Medical School , as senior
managing director, said the people, who asked not to be
identified because the information isn’t public.  Mark DiPaolo, a lawyer who worked with Icahn from 2005
until this year, has also joined Denner’s fund, according to one
of the people.  Denner declined to comment. Mark Mindich, chief operating
officer at Meritage, didn’t respond to a telephone call and e-
mail seeking comment.  Sarissa will run a health-care focused, typically activist,
and long-biased portfolio with fewer than 20 positions, one of
the people said. Five core positions will usually represent more
than 50 percent of investments, the person said.  Drugmaker Turnarounds  Denner, a senior managing director who generated about $2
billion in profit at Icahn, joined in 2006 and left at the end
of 2011, the people said. His activist strategy is to identify
companies whose research efforts lack focus or whose senior
executives aren’t effectively expanding the business. After
buying a stake, he typically urges management to consider his
suggestions. If they resist, he seeks board seats to push for
change and sometimes a sale of the company.  Before joining Icahn, Denner worked at Viking Global
Investors LP in  New York  from 2005 to 2006 as a portfolio
manager specializing in health care, the people said. Before
that, he was a portfolio manager at Morgan Stanley.  Denner and Mulligan worked with Icahn on many of his
investments in drugmakers, facilitating Icahn’s negotiations
with biotechnology companies including Biogen Idec Inc., Genzyme
Corp., MedImmune LLC and ImClone Systems Inc.  Denner and Icahn met more than a decade ago when both
invested in ImClone, at a time when most people were writing the
company off. ImClone’s founder, Sam Waksal, pleaded guilty in
2002 to  insider trading  on word that regulatory approval of the
company’s main drug would be delayed. Yet the experimental
cancer medicine, Erbitux, was still a good drug, according to
Denner. He bought ImClone stock and later teamed with Icahn to
win board seats -- Icahn eventually became chairman -- and they
engineered ImClone’s 2008 sale to Indianapolis-based Eli Lilly &
Co. for $6.5 billion.  Profitable Record  Icahn has a track record of investing in drugmakers and
profiting from their turnarounds or sales to larger companies.
In addition to ImClone, he invested in Genzyme, which was sold
to Sanofi for $20.1 billion in 2011; Amylin Pharmaceuticals
Inc., which agreed to be bought by Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. for
$5.3 billion in June; and Biogen, whose stock has more than
doubled in the last two years.  Denner and Mulligan sit on the boards of Biogen and Enzon
Pharmaceuticals Inc. and have previously been directors at other
drug companies.  Hedge funds  that opened in 2012 totaled 1,108 as industry
assets increased to a record $2.25 trillion, slightly lower than
2011’s total of 1,113 startups, according to Chicago-based Hedge
Fund Research Inc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kelly Bit in New York at 
 kbit@bloomberg.net ;
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  