-- Texting While Flying Linked to Commercial Crash in First
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2013-04-09T21:36:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/texting-while-flying-linked-to-commercial-crash-in-first.html
Texting by a pilot before and during
a 2011 medical-helicopter flight in Missouri contributed to its
crash, the first time such distractions have been implicated in
a fatal commercial-aviation accident, the U.S. National
Transportation Safety Board found.  The distraction from texting helped lead the pilot to take
off without enough fuel, the investigative agency found at a
hearing today in Washington. The helicopter’s engine stopped
after the pilot made a false report about how much fuel was
aboard, the NTSB found.  While calling texting a contributing factor rather than a
probable cause of the accident that killed four people,
including the pilot, the safety board voted to issue a warning
today about the distractions posed by using wireless devices
during flight.  “With these portable electronic devices, it’s an
addiction,” NTSB Chairman Debbie Hersman said in an interview
after the hearing. “We have got to figure out how to keep them
out of the environment where there are safety-critical things
happening in transportation.”  The NTSB documented at least 240 texts sent and received by
the pilot during his shift the day of the accident, according to
records cited by Bill Bramble, an NTSB investigator. There were
20 such texts with a coworker before and during the accident,
the safety board found.  The  Air Methods Corp. (AIRM)  helicopter crashed in a field after
running out of fuel, the NTSB found. Use of electronic devices
by pilots during flight was prohibited by company rules,
according to the safety board.  Fuel Reserves  The cause of the crash was the pilot’s decision to make the
flight while knowing he didn’t have enough fuel reserves, the
NTSB found. The pilot also failed to perform a maneuver that may
have allowed a soft landing after the engine quit, partly
because he hadn’t been sufficiently trained, according to the
NTSB.  The pilot missed at least three opportunities to discover
the lack of fuel and could have made an emergency landing in the
minutes before the crash, the board found. The texting, which
also occurred as pilot James Freudenberg was planning where to
refuel, created distractions that helped lead to the blunders,
according to the NTSB.  “This is a classic example of dividing attention in a way
that compromises safety,” said David Strayer, a psychology
professor at the University of Utah in Salt Lake City who has
studied how personal electronic devices cause distraction.  Safety Improvements  While mobile-phone use and  texting  has arisen in private-
plane accidents and in other modes of transportation, this was
the the first time the NTSB found it contributed to a fatal
commercial accident.  In talks he gives on distracted driving, Strayer said he
often asks people what they would think about an airline pilot
phoning to make dinner reservations while approaching an
airport.  “Curiously enough, here is a situation in which that
ludicrous example occurred,” Strayer said. “Now you’ve got it
coming full circle.”  The company has put in place safety improvements since the
accident, Mike Allen, president of domestic air medical services
at Air Methods, said in a statement. Among the changes is a
“zero tolerance policy” for mobile phone use during flight,
Allen said.  Air Methods, based in Englewood, Colorado, says on its
website that it operates more than 300 air-medical bases in 48
states. It is the largest air medical transport company in the
U.S., Hersman said.  Four Texts  The accident is another example of the growing risks on the
roads and in other forms of transportation as mobile phones
become more popular, Hersman said.  “How many more deaths is it going to take before we get
serious on this?” she said.  The crash on Aug. 26, 2011, in Mosby, Missouri, killed
Terry Tacoronte, a patient who was being flown from one hospital
to another. Tacoronte was suffering from abdominal pains, Gary
Robb, a Kansas City lawyer who filed suit in behalf of her
family, said in an interview.  Freudenberg, Randy Bever, a flight nurse, and Chris Frakes,
a paramedic, also died. The helicopter was being operated under
the name LifeNet.  Freudenberg received four texts, three of them from a
friend at work, and sent three others during the flight,
according to NTSB records. He was planning to have dinner with
the coworker, according to the records.  Another 13 texts were logged on his phone in the 71 minutes
before the flight, including two during a previous flight,
according to NTSB records.  Federal Regulations  Freudenberg, 34, who told the coworker he hadn’t slept well
the night before, failed to refuel the helicopter before flying
to a hospital in Bethany, Missouri, to pick up Tacorente,
according to NTSB records.  He realized his mistake after landing at the hospital and
discussed where to get more fuel with a company dispatcher. He
was about a mile from Midwest National Air Center Airport in
Mosby when the helicopter went down.  Taking off on the final flight violated U.S. Federal
Aviation Administration regulations on how much fuel is
required, the NTSB found. Helicopters carrying passengers for
hire must carry a 20-minute fuel reserve beyond what they need
to get to their destination, according to NTSB records.  Freudenberg radioed a dispatcher after takeoff that he had
enough fuel to fly 45 minutes. The copter was aloft for 30
minutes before it ran out of fuel, according to NTSB records.  Warning Light  “I don’t want to run short and I don’t want to run into
that 20-minute reserve if I don’t have to,” he radioed a
company dispatcher shortly before taking off.  The Eurocopter AS350 helicopter was equipped with a warning
light to alert pilots when fuel ran low, according to the
records. Freudenberg never radioed that he was having an
emergency.  While Air Methods rules prohibited use of electronic
devices during flight, the NTSB said airlines and other
commercial flight operations should also prohibit their use on
the ground during “safety-critical” activities.  The FAA proposed in January that personal electronic
devices should not be used at any time during an airline flight.
Small charter firms, such as Air Methods, are not covered under
the proposal. The NTSB recommended that the FAA expand the rule
to include all commercial operators.  Distracted Driving  The crash is different from what is commonly seen in
distracted driving when a motorist takes his or her eyes off the
road and causes an accident,  John Lee , an engineering professor
at the University of Wisconsin, said in an interview.  Instead, it’s similar to an office worker who gets a phone
call and forgets to send an e-mail, said Lee, who studies
people’s interaction with technology. Such distractions from so-
called multi tasking have been linked to medical errors, he
said.  The NTSB’s Hersman and Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood
have spoken out about increasing accidents in which mobile
phones and other electronic devices have led to lapses in
attention.  April is National Distracted Driving Awareness Month,
LaHood said in a  blog  post yesterday. Text messaging raises the
risk of a crash on the road by 23 times, he said.  Use of electronic devices in the cockpit has occasionally
come up in NTSB cases. The co-pilot on a  Pinnacle Airlines Corp. (PNCLQ) 
Colgan Air flight that crashed near Buffalo on Feb. 12, 2009,
killing 50 people, texted her husband while the plane was still
on the ground before departure.  There have been 13 helicopter air-medical flight accidents
since 2011, killing 12 people, according to NTSB records. Three
of the accidents were on Air Methods helicopters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  