-- Fed’s Bullard Says March Jobs Report Doesn’t Change Outlook
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2013-04-09T14:16:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/fed-s-bullard-says-march-jobs-report-doesn-t-change-his-outlook.html
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis
President James Bullard said payroll growth slumping to a nine-
month low doesn’t change his forecast that the jobless rate will
decline to about 7 percent by the end of this year.  “I’m inclined to look past the report because I think
there are some mixed messages in there,” Bullard, who votes on
the policy-making Federal Open Market Committee this year, told
CNBC today in an interview from St. Louis. “We want to kind of
wait and see and that’s where I am right now. I wouldn’t change
my forecast based on this.”  Fed officials are debating how to eventually curtail asset
purchases that have swollen its balance sheet to a record $3.22
trillion. The FOMC in March agreed to keep buying $85 billion in
bonds per month in an effort to bolster economic growth and
reduce  unemployment  that was at 7.6 percent last month.  Bullard, one of the first officials to urge slowing the
pace of bond buying in 2013 if economic conditions allowed, said
today policy makers probably will “slowly ratchet down the pace
of purchases” as the economy continues to improve.  “That’s a great policy, serves us very well,” Bullard
said today. “And the notion that when a little bit weaker data
comes in or a little bit stronger data comes in, well the Fed
policy is going to adjust in response to that -- so I think
that’s been a very good development.”  The 88,000 pace of payroll growth in March was the slowest
in nine months and less than the most pessimistic forecast in a
Bloomberg survey. It followed a revised 268,000 February
increase, Labor Department data showed last week.  Bullard, 52, joined the St. Louis Fed’s research department
in 1990 and became president of the regional bank in 2008. His
district includes  Arkansas  and parts of Illinois,  Indiana ,
 Kentucky ,  Mississippi ,  Missouri  and  Tennessee .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
Jeanna Smialek in Washington at 
 jsmialek1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  