-- Fiat Says It Has Enough Cash to Buy Remainder of Chrysler
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 2013-04-09T15:37:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/fiat-says-it-has-enough-cash-to-buy-remainder-of-chrysler.html
Fiat SpA (F) , the Italian carmaker that
controls Chrysler Group LLC, said it has enough resources
already to buy the remaining stake in the unit from an employee
group, and won’t sell new shares to finance a transaction.  Fiat would consider disposing of some assets to control
debt in the event the carmaker acquires full ownership of
Chrysler from the  United Auto Workers  retiree health-care fund,
or VEBA, Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne  said at the
annual  shareholders’ meeting  in the company’s hometown of Turin.  “If we ever reach a deal with VEBA to buy the remaining
stake, we have enough cash for it,” Marchionne said today. Fiat
may “monetize assets” to maintain its financing, he said,
without specifying what businesses it may sell.  Marchionne is relying on  Auburn Hills , Michigan-based
Chrysler, where he’s also CEO, to sustain group earnings as he
works to end losses at Fiat’s mass-market brands in  Europe  that
exceeded 700 million euros ($916.7 million) last year. Fiat,
which would have posted a 1.04 billion-euro loss in 2012 without
Chrysler, still plans to boost trading profit to as much as 4.5
billion euros in 2013 from 3.81 billion euros in 2012.  Fiat  rose  1.6 percent to 4.04 euros in Milan in the biggest
jump since March 22. The stock has gained 6.5 percent this year,
valuing the carmaker at 5.05 billion euros.  Deal ‘Clarity’  There will probably be “clarity” on the “inevitable”
merger of Fiat and Chrysler by the end of the year, Marchionne
said. The carmakers are likely to be part of a single company by
June 2014, when Marchionne will complete his 10th year as CEO of
the Italian group, he said.  Fiat owns 58.5 percent of Chrysler and VEBA owns the other
41.5 percent. Financing talks with banks are under way, and
Marchionne said on March 5 that a valuation process for VEBA’s
holding has started. A U.S. court will probably rule in a
separate case by the end of June on the amount Fiat must pay for
part of the UAW retiree health-fund stake, he said today.  The manufacturer  is approaching banks to refinance a 1.95
billion-euro credit line before completing the Chrysler deal,
people familiar with the matter said last month.  Cash Positions  Excluding Chrysler, Fiat had 9.1 billion euros of cash and
1.95 billion euros of un-drawn credit lines at the end of 2012,
with net debt from industrial activities of 5.05 billion euros.
Chrysler had 8.8 billion euros of cash and 985 million euros of
un-drawn credit lines, with net debt of 1.5 billion euros.  Fiat will take stems in the “medium to long term” to give
the two manufacturers a stable capital base, Marchionne told
reporters today after the annual meeting. A share sale or assets
disposals are the only way to strengthen capital, he said.  “The capital structure of the group has to be looked at
for the long term, if we increase leverage by about 2.5 billion
euros to try to close the deal” with VEBA, Marchionne said.  Marchionne, 60, has so far resisted Wolfsburg, Germany-
based  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s interest in buying Fiat’s Alfa Romeo
brand. The Italian manager, who grew up in  Canada , has said Fiat
may sell a stake in its Magneti Marelli car-parts division, and
it doesn’t need to dispose of part of its holding in supercar
manufacturer Ferrari.  An asset that may possibly be available is the company’s
remaining 2.8 percent holding in  Fiat Industrial SpA (FI) , the truck
and agricultural-equipment maker it spun off to shareholders in
2011, the CEO said.  Keeping Supercars  Ferrari isn’t for sale, even with “spasmodic” interest
from “German friends,” Marchionne said.  Fiat will review its forecasts for 2013 at the end of April
as industrywide car sales in Europe are on pace for a sixth
consecutive annual slump, Marchionne said.  A decline in European sales “would be worse than the
forecasts we indicated in January as our base for 2013
targets,” he said. “I don’t think we will review our global
targets, but the geographic distribution of them may change.”  The CEO’s comments indicate Fiat is “walking away from
2013 profit targets,”  David Arnold , a sales specialist at
Credit Suisse in  London , said today in a report to clients.
Fiat’s operating losses in Europe may widen to 750 million euros
this year, and “could be worse” than that projection.  Marchionne’s turnaround plan for Fiat in Europe calls for
16 upscale cars, including an Alfa Romeo sport-utility vehicle,
a small SUV from Chrysler’s Jeep brand and six models at the
luxury Maserati division. The new vehicles will help fill
capacity at under-used Fiat assembly lines in  Italy .  “While other carmakers in deep crisis have announced job
cuts and plant closures, we won’t,” Fiat Chairman John Elkann
said at the annual meeting. “We will keep our workforce,” said
Elkann, citing a motto by of his late grandfather, former CEO
Gianni Angelli,that “Fiat is too small and must grow.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Turin at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  