-- First Solar Snags Rooftop-Ready Technology in TetraSun Deal
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n
-- 2013-04-09T21:10:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/first-solar-snags-rooftop-ready-technology-in-tetrasun-deal-1-.html
First Solar Inc. (FSLR) , the solar
manufacturer that gets almost two-thirds of its revenue from
building and selling large  power plants  to utilities, is
acquiring a company developing technology for rooftops.  The company agreed to buy TetraSun, a startup developing
high-efficiency solar panels for small rooftop systems,
according to a statement today. First Solar plans to produce and
market TetraSun products in Japan, Chief Executive Officer Jim Hughes said at an analyst meeting. Terms weren’t disclosed.  The deal fills a gap for First Solar, which doesn’t market
its panels for rooftop solar systems. It also gives the Tempe,
Arizona-based company access to Japan, which is expected to
become the second-largest market this year. The deal is a
significant departure for First Solar, the biggest producer of
thin-film solar panels, because TetraSun’s technology uses
silicon.  “ Japan  is the highest value, space-constrained market so
that’s why we’re starting there,” Hughes said today in an
interview after the event.  TetraSun’s proprietary design can convert more than 21
percent of the energy in sunlight into electricity, according to
the statement. It uses silicon, the material used by most
photovoltaic solar manufacturers including the Chinese  producers 
that dominate the market. TetraSun’s panels have copper
electrodes instead of silver, which reduces costs, the company
 said  in July.  New Markets  “It’s a complementary technology set that opens to us the
entire market,” Hughes said today on a conference call. First
Solar’s panels use cadmium-telluride sandwiched between sheets
of glass.  First Solar is buying TetraSun from JX Nippon Oil & Energy
Corp. and other investors including TetraSun’s management. All
14 employees will remain with the   San Jose , California-based
company.  First Solar expects to open a factory that will produce
about 25 megawatts to 50 megawatts of TetraSun panels next year
for the Japanese market. Hughes said he hasn’t decided yet where
to build the plant, which will initially produce as much as 100
megawatts of panels annually.  The company expects to sell a total of 1.6 gigawatts to 1.8
gigawatts of panels this year, according to a revised forecast
issued today. Sales will be $3.8 billion to $4 billion.  About 64 percent of First Solar’s $1.08 billion in sales in
the fourth quarter came from its systems business, which builds
large solar farms and sells them to utility customers, and the
rest from selling panels.  First Solar shares surged the most on record today,
climbing 46 percent to $39.45 at the close in  New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Martin in New York at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  