-- First South Korea Dollar Debt Sale in 4 Years Seen Delayed
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m ,   T a n y a   A n g e r e r   a n d   Y e   X i e
-- 2013-04-10T06:14:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/first-korea-dollar-debt-sale-in-four-years-seen-delayed-on-north.html
South Korea probably will put off
plans to sell its first dollar bonds in four years after North
Korea’s war threats drove borrowing costs to a six-month high,
say  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411)  and Western Asset Management Co.  The extra yield investors demand to hold South Korea’s
sovereign securities instead of U.S. Treasuries reached 99 basis
points last week, the biggest premium since Sept. 27, as
hostilities with North Korea escalated, Bank of America Merrill
Lynch data show. The gap widened 20 basis points in the five
days ended April 5, the biggest jump since September 2011, and
was 98 basis points yesterday.  “I don’t believe any of the Korean issuers will issue at
the current funding levels,” said Jeffrey Yap, the Hong Kong-
based head of Asian fixed-income trading at Mizuho Securities
Asia Ltd. “Everybody is waiting to see whether there’s a
missile test that North  Korea  claimed it will hold. There’s a
high chance that the spread will narrow again from here.”  The Finance Ministry said today it is monitoring market
conditions and no decision has been made yet on a dollar bond
sale, including the size and timing. Citigroup Inc., Deutsche
Bank AG, Goldman Sachs Group Inc., HSBC Holdings Plc, Korea
Development Bank and Woori Investment & Securities Co. have been
selected as arrangers, MoneyToday reported, citing unidentified
industry officials. The ministry declined to comment on the
report, as did three of the international lenders that responded
to Bloomberg enquiries on the matter.  Daegu Bank, located in Daegu, South Korea, is also
considering a sale of dollar notes, a person familiar with the
discussions, who asked not to be identified because the details
are private, said on April 3. A director at the bank’s
international finance department, who asked not to be
identified, declined to comment yesterday.  Yields Climb  The yield on Korea’s 5.75 percent sovereign dollar bonds
due April 2014 advanced eight basis points, or 0.08 percentage
point, since April 5 to 1.22 percent, after jumping 19 basis
points last week. Yields on longer-maturity bonds rose at a
slower pace, with that for notes due in 2019 climbing eight
basis points this month to 2.07 percent, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  “If they want to place the issue, it shouldn’t be a
problem,” Boon Peng Ooi, who oversees $20 billion in Asian
fixed income at Eastspring Investments Singapore Ltd., said in
an interview in New York yesterday. “It depends on whether they
think the yield is acceptable. For $1 billion issuance, 10-20
basis points is quite a lot of money. Unless I really need the
money, I’d put it off.”  Missile Test  South Korea’s foreign-exchange reserves totaled $327.4
billion at the end of March and the Finance Ministry said today
the nation’s banks have an ample supply of foreign currency.  Overseas borrowing costs are climbing as President Park
Geun Hye seeks to revive the slowest economic growth in three
years. North Korea may detonate a nuclear device and carry out a
missile test as early as this week, the South’s Defense Ministry
said on April 8. The possibility of a ballistic missile launch
is “very high” and “may materialize anytime from now,”
Foreign Minister Yun Byung Se said today in  Seoul .  The North’s decision to restart production of weapons-grade
plutonium is credit-negative for South Korea as it has increased
“the chance of a serious military clash,” Moody’s Investors
Service analysts David Erickson and Thomas Byrne wrote in a
report on April 8. Now is ‘not a good time’ for South Korea to
sell bonds overseas, according to Desmond Soon, a portfolio
manager at Western Asset Management Co.  Structured Notes  Overseas banks sold the most structured notes that cut
risks associated with their holdings of South Korea’s sovereign
dollar debt in more than six months. JPMorgan Chase & Co. and
Standard Chartered Plc issued a combined $150 million of the
securities in March, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Issuers of the so-called credit-linked notes transfer risks of
the underlying assets to investors.  “We don’t think Korea will default but foreign firms can
have different views,” Park Sung Young, a director for sales of
fixed-income, currency and commodities at Hyundai Securities Co.
in Seoul, said by phone. South Korean institutional investors
buy the notes for higher coupons, betting there’s “zero
chance” the country will actually face a credit event, he said.  The yield on South Korea’s domestic five-year bonds was
little changed today at 2.58 percent, having reached a record-
low  2.51 percent  on March 28. The Bank of Korea will cut its
benchmark interest rate tomorrow by 25 basis points to 2.5
percent, according to 11 of 20 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News. That would be the first reduction since October.  “The central bank may come forward with more aggressive
action before investors and consumers lose confidence,” said
Lee Jae Hyung, a fixed-income analyst at Tongyang Securities
Inc. in Seoul.  Weaker Won  Overseas funds have pulled about $1.9 billion from Korean
stocks since the North’s third nuclear test on Feb. 12, helping
drive the  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  down 0.8 percent and contributing to the
won’s 3.5 percent loss against the dollar. The Kospi’s 3.1
percent drop this year is less than the 3.5 percent decline in
the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index. The won is 0.9 percent weaker
than its average level for the past three years.  The Kospi rose 0.8 percent today and the won advanced 0.3
percent to close at 1,135.97 per dollar in Seoul.  The cost to insure South Korea’s debt against non-payment
climbed this week to the highest level since September. Five-
year credit default swaps tied to the notes rose 22 basis points
in the past month to 85 in New York yesterday and touched 88 on
April 8, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Similar
contracts for  China , which shares an Aa3 credit rating at
Moody’s Investors Service Inc., increased 11 basis points to 72.  ‘Aggressive Rhetoric’  “The cause of the big move is North Korea’s aggressive
rhetoric,” said Mark Reade, a credit analyst at Credit Agricole
CIB in Hong Kong. “Some investors are treating Korean assets
with more caution, but I don’t expect investors to abandon the
sector. The widening of spreads we have seen will ultimately
subside.”  South Korea last sold dollar bonds in April 2009, when it
issued $1.5 billion each of 7.125 percent notes due 2019 and
5.75 percent securities maturing next year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Indonesia  sold a combined $3 billion of
10- and 30-year U.S. currency-denominated notes at record-low
borrowing costs this week.  Chinese President Xi Jinping said April 7 that no country
should be allowed to instigate regional chaos and United Nations
envoy Susan Rice said last week the U.S. is pushing Xi’s
government to “do more” to rein in its ally.  “The multilateral approach to resolve the crisis will
succeed,” said Singapore-based Soon at Western Asset, which
managed $461.9 billion of assets globally as of Dec. 31. “We
still think the likelihood of a conflict is low given China
today is going to play a critical role. We wouldn’t overreact to
the situation.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net ;
Tanya Angerer in Singapore at 
 tangerer@bloomberg.net ;
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  