-- First Solar Competing Against Silicon Panels on Efficiency Gains
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n
-- 2013-04-09T16:26:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/first-solar-competing-against-silicon-panels-on-efficiency-gains.html
First Solar Inc. (FSLR) , the biggest maker
of thin-film solar modules, said efficiency improvements are
accelerating, which will cut production costs and help it
compete with rivals that use polysilicon.  The company’s newest panels can convert 16.1 percent of the
energy in sunlight into electricity, a record for cadmium-
telluride technology, and may reach 18 percent in 2016, Chief
Technology Officer Raffi Garabedian said today during an analyst
day presentation.  That will help drive down production costs to less than 40
cents a watt by 2017, from 68 cents in the fourth quarter.
Improved technology will help First Solar compete against the
dominant Chinese manufacturers of polysilicon panels, said Chief
Executive Officer Jim Hughes. He expects about a third of
revenue to come from panel sales, and the rest from building and
selling solar farms.  “We’re refocusing on research and development,” Hughes
said on the call. “First Solar won’t hide behind the systems
business.”  The efficiency results were confirmed by the U.S. Energy
Department’s  National Renewable Energy Laboratory , Tempe,
Arizona-based First Solar said today in a statement. The panels
aren’t in commercial production yet.  Yingli Green Energy Holding Co., the largest panel maker
based on 2012 shipments, had production costs of about 62 cents
a watt at the end of last year, and expects that to decline 10
cents to 12 cents this year.  First Solar has about $8 billion worth of contracts to
build power plant systems with its panels, insulating the
company from the price cuts that have bankrupted solar
manufacturers from  Germany  to the U.S. and led  China ’s Suntech
Power Holdings Co. to default on some debt.  First Solar rose 6.6 percent to $28.83 at 12:24 p.m. in  New
York . The shares have slumped 6.6 percent this year.  (The analyst meeting began at 9 a.m. in New York and will
continue until 4 p.m. To listen to a webcast, go to the
company’s site at  http://investor.firstsolar.com/events.cfm )  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Martin in New York at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  