-- Fitch Cuts China Yuan Debt Rating on Local Government
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-04-10T06:52:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/fitch-cuts-china-yuan-debt-rating-on-local-government-borrowing.html
Fitch Ratings Ltd. cut  China ’s
long-term local-currency debt rating, citing rising risks to the
country’s financial stability given the lack of transparency in
the increased borrowing of local governments.  Fitch lowered its assessment by one step to A+, the fifth-
highest grade, the London-based company said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday. It estimates total credit in  China’s
economy , including various forms of so-called shadow banking,
may have reached 198 percent of gross domestic product at the
end of 2012, up from 125 percent four years earlier.  The ratio of credit to GDP “is not stabilizing anytime
soon,” Charlene Chu, Beijing-based head of China financial
institutions at Fitch, said in a teleconference today. “We are
getting increasingly worried about the fact that we could have
an asset-quality problem in the financial sector. One sector of
borrowers that we are concerned with is the local governments.”  The local governments may have had 12.85 trillion yuan
($2.1 trillion) in debt at the end of last year, equal to about
25 percent of GDP, up from 23.4 percent at end-2011, Fitch said.
Former Finance Minister Xiang Huaicheng said April 6 that their
combined debt may have exceeded 20 trillion  yuan , almost double
the figure given in a 2011 report by the National Audit Office.  ‘Opaque’ Lending  Chinese local governments “likely have significant
additional contingent liabilities” arising from the debts of
companies linked to them, Fitch said. The ratings company said
lending between such entities and business had been “opaque.”  Fitch affirmed China’s long-term foreign-currency debt
rating at A+ and said the outlook is stable. Local-currency
ratings apply to both domestic debt and offshore yuan-
denominated notes, the company said.  An upgrade is unlikely over the next couple of years
because chances are the credit expansion won’t unwind in that
period,  Andrew Colquhoun , head of Asia-Pacific sovereigns at
Fitch in Hong Kong, said on the teleconference.  The total borrowings of China’s central government and the
nation’s provinces and cities may have exceeded 30 trillion
yuan, Xiang, who served as finance minister from 1998 to 2003,
said at the Boao Forum for  Asia . Local governments had 10.7
trillion yuan of debt at the end of 2010, the auditor said in
its report.  Subprime Similarities  Billionaire investor  George Soros  said China has a “couple
of years” to control risks from non-traditional financing,
whose expansion has parallels with the cause of the global
financial crisis. The growth of shadow banking has “some
disturbing similarities with the subprime-mortgage market in the
U.S.,” Soros said in a speech at the Boao Forum on April 8,
adding the authorities “have both the skills and the resources
to deflate an incipient bubble gradually.”  Aggregate financing , an indicator started by the central
bank in 2011 to provide a broader gauge of funding than bank
loans, more than doubled from a year earlier to a record 2.53
trillion yuan in January. The measure, which includes all loans
as well as the proceeds of bond and equity sales, was 1.07
trillion yuan in February and data in the coming week is
forecast to show financing totaled 1.80 trillion yuan in March,
based on the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  ‘Alarmingly High’  “More attention should be paid to the pace of credit
expansion through other channels, which is already alarmingly
high,” Wang Qinwei, an economist at  Capital Economics , wrote in
a note today. “This concern was reflected in Tuesday’s move by
Fitch to downgrade China’s long-term local-currency rating by
one notch to A+.”  Bond-market history indicates that the effect of sovereign
ratings may be limited. Almost half the time, yields on
government bonds fall when a rating action by S&P and Moody’s
Investors Service suggests they should climb, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg on 314 upgrades, downgrades and outlook
changes going back as far as the 1970s.  After S&P stripped  France  and the U.S. of AAA grades,
 interest rates  paid by the countries to finance their deficits
dropped rather than rose.  China’s 10-year sovereign  bond yield  fell to 3.47 percent
yesterday from this year’s high of 3.61 percent on Jan. 29. Top-
rated corporate debt with similar maturities  pays  5.11 percent,
18 basis points less than at the start of the year.  In  Hong Kong ’s offshore market, the yield on China’s
government Dim Sum bonds due June 2022 was steady at 2.94
percent today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The rate
has fallen 50 basis points, or 0.50 percentage point, from a
record 3.44 percent reached on Sept. 17.  Limited Impact  The rating downgrade won’t have much market impact,
according to Credit Agricole CIB and Societe Generale SA.  “The issues discussed by Fitch are not new and what is
more important is that we are seeing positive action from the
newly formed government to address such matters, for example the
control over wealth management products,” Wee-Khoon Chong, a
Societe Generale strategist in Hong Kong, wrote in a note
yesterday. The downgrade should not have “a meaningful market
impact” on China’s bonds or the yuan, Dariusz Kowalczyk, a
Credit Agricole strategist in Hong Kong, said today.  Stronger Yuan  The yuan touched a 19-year high today of 6.1933 per dollar
in  Shanghai . It held gains even after government data showed the
 trade balance  swung to an unexpected deficit of $880 million in
March from a $15.2 billion surplus the previous month.
Economists forecast a $15.15 billion surplus, based on the
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  The cost of insuring China’s  government bonds  against non-
payment for five years fell two basis points to 72 yesterday in
 New York , according to data provider CMA, which is owned by
McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market. The credit-default swap touched 75
on April 1, the highest since October.  China’s banking regulator last month told lenders to limit
investments of client funds in debt that isn’t publicly traded
and to isolate such risks from their operations. Such
investments can’t exceed 35 percent of all funds raised from the
sale of wealth management products, or 4 percent of the lender’s
total assets at the end of the previous year, the China Banking
Regulatory Commission said.  “It’s too early at this point to see how strict the
authorities are going to be with implementation and how
innovative Chinese banks are going to be in terms of possibly
getting around some of those regulations,” said Fitch’s Chu.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Alexandra Ho in Shanghai at 
 aho113@bloomberg.net ;
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 John Liu  at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net ;
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  