-- Forget Adultery, Playing Cards is More Exciting in France
-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 2013-04-09T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/forget-adultery-playing-cards-is-more-exciting-in-france.html
Are women really necessary? Eugene
Labiche’s answer couldn’t be clearer: No.  That’s the gist of his 1876 comedy  “Le Prix Martin,”  (The
Martin Prize), currently running at the Theatre de l’Odeon in
Paris. The revival has been staged by Peter Stein, the
celebrated German director.  It’s the funniest show in town.  Labiche (1815-88) was no gay activist. He’s one of the
grand masters of French farce who authored more than 150 plays,
many written in collaboration with other playwrights.  With Georges Feydeau, his great successor, he shared the
same pet subject -- extra-marital lust among the French
bourgeoisie.  In his later years, Feydeau became increasingly
misogynistic. After a violent domestic quarrel, he left his wife
and moved into a hotel. He ended his life in a sanatorium where
he was treated for neurasthenia.  “Le Prix Martin” is less aggressive than Feydeau’s late
plays. Yet the message is unmistakable: Although adultery may be
fun at the beginning, it soon turns into a terrible burden.  Ferdinand Martin (Jacques Weber) is a wealthy rentier. His
best friend Agenor (Laurent Stocker) is having a liaison with
his wife Loisa (Christine Citti).  Love Nest  When Agenor feels lustful, he indicates his readiness for a
tryst by chalking a horizontal line on the husband’s back. A
vertical line means a no-show with Loisa at their love nest on
(the appropriately named) Rue de Paradis.  By the time the curtain opens, the lines have mostly been
vertical. Agenor has enough of Loisa’s affection and gives in
only when she threatens to poison herself.  When Martin finds out what the chalk marks on his coat
mean, prodded by his hot-blooded cousin Hernandez Martinez
(Pedro Casablanc) who’s visiting from  Guatemala , he reluctantly
agrees to kill his rival by pushing him into the Handeck gorge
in Switzerland.  Arriving at the scene of the crime, though, he finds one
pretext after another for not proceeding with his plan. In the
end, he contents himself with obliging the repentant Agenor to
endow an annual prize, the Prix Martin, for the best piece of
writing condemning “the infamy of seducing the wife of one’s
best friend.”  While Loisa flees with the macho cousin to Guatemala, the
two friends find themselves where they were at the beginning of
the play -- at the card table.  Hysterical Sitcom  Stein, who started out as a wild-eyed iconoclast, has
become a vociferous critic of what the Germans call
“Regietheater.” He doesn’t try to modernize the action nor does
he turn the play into a hysterical sitcom.  He has staged it with a deadpan restraint that makes the
outlandish story all the more hilarious. With its stylish sets
(Ferdinand Woegerbauer) and costumes (Anna Maria Heinreich),
this is a traditional production that the playwright would have
recognized and enjoyed.  Happily, Stein has found two first-class actors for the
leads: Weber as the towering, rotund cuckold and Stocker as his
diminutive friend form a fat-thin duo that reminded me of Laurel
and Hardy.  The rest of the cast is decent enough not to spoil the fun.
Rating: ****.  “Le Prix Martin” runs through May 5. Information:
+33-1-4485-4040 or  http://www.theatre-odeon.eu .  (Jorg von Uthmann is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Ryan Sutton  on  New York  
restaurants and  Rich Jaroslovsky  on technology.  To contact the writer of this review:
Jorg von Uthmann in Paris at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at  mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 