-- Former HBOS Chief Executive Crosby Offers to Forfeit Knighthood
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2013-04-09T16:35:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/former-hbos-chief-executive-crosby-offers-to-forfeit-knighthood.html
Former HBOS Plc Chief Executive
Officer James Crosby said he will relinquish his knighthood and
forfeit part of his pension after lawmakers criticized his
leadership of the bailed-out lender.  He will give up 30 percent of his 580,000-pound ($889,000)
pension and an honor that entitles him to use the title “Sir”
in front of his name, he said in a statement today.  “It’s the right way to do it that he should voluntarily
give up his knighthood,” said  Paul Moore , who was fired as HBOS
head of risk in 2004 for warning the bank’s bosses that its
growth plans could threaten its stability. Crosby should
“specify what he did wrong. He will be an example to everyone
and people will forgive him,” he said in a telephone interview.  In a report published April 5, the Parliamentary Commission
on Banking Standards called for Crosby, 57, ex-Chairman Dennis Stevenson, 67, and former HBOS CEO,  Andy Hornby , 46, to be
banned from working in the financial industry after their
“self-delusion” led the lender to require a 28 billion-pound
rescue from the government and  Lloyds Banking Group Plc. (LLOY)  Former
 Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  CEO  Fred Goodwin  was stripped
of his knighthood in 2012.  “The government believes it is right that this decision
has been reached,” the U.K. Treasury said in a statement
referring to Crosby.  Almost five years after the HBOS rescue, the committee
singled out the three former executives for embarking on an
aggressive expansion strategy, “incompetent” lending and their
failure to understand and manage the risks they were taking. By
focusing on risky commercial real estate, leveraged loans and
funding for entrepreneurs, HBOS ran up bigger loan losses than
any U.K. counterpart, forcing it to be rescued, the panel said
in a report that described the company as a “manual for bad
banking.”  ‘Deeply Sorry’  “I am deeply sorry for what happened at HBOS and the
ensuing consequences for former colleagues, shareholders,
taxpayers and society in general,” Crosby said in the
statement.  Business Secretary Vince Cable is studying whether the
three can be banned.  So far, the only HBOS executive to be barred from the
industry for life is Peter Cummings, who ran the corporate unit
responsible for most of the bank’s losses.  “This sets the benchmark for others,” said Labour
lawmaker  John Mann  in a statement today. “At last we have a
banker who is prepared to say he got it wrong and wishes to make
amends.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  