-- Formosa Plastics Heir Sues Over $15 Billion in Trusts
-- B y   D e b r a   M a o
-- 2013-04-09T06:07:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/formosa-plastics-heir-sues-over-15-billion-in-trusts.html
Winston Wong, the son of  Formosa
Plastics (1301)  Group’s late founder Wang Yung-ching, sued an adviser
for transferring the bulk of the family fortune valued at $15
billion into  Bermuda  trusts controlled by other family members.  Hung Wen Hsiung set up the trusts, excluding Wang, referred
to in court documents as Y.C. Wang, from the ownership and some
members of his direct family as beneficiaries, according to a
statement of claim filed by Wong yesterday in the Supreme Court
of Bermuda.  “We are seeking to invalidate the transfers and get a
declaration that the assets are held for all the heirs of Y.C.
Wang,” Mark Stoutenburg, Wong’s lawyer, said in a phone
interview. Frank Fu, a spokesman for the Formosa Plastics Group,
declined to comment on the lawsuit when reached by phone today.  Bermuda is the fourth jurisdiction where Wong filed claims
to recover the estate of his father, which he said is valued at
$18 billion. Y.C. Wang died in 2008 having founded Taiwan’s
biggest diversified industrial company, Formosa Plastics Group,
which made pretax profit of NT$143 billion ($4.8 billion) in
2011, according to the company’s  website . The group has
worldwide assets valued at more than $85 billion and employs
100,000 people, according to the lawsuit.  Hong Kong Claim  Wong’s claim in  Hong Kong  alleging Hung and three half-
sisters siphoned assets from the estate is pending. An
application in  New Jersey  was dismissed on jurisdiction grounds
and proceedings in Taiwan were resolved.  Hung, Wong’s half-sisters Susan Wang and Sandy Wang, as
well as group chairman William Wong and Wilfred Wang are among
the trusts’ managers, according to a copy of the court filing
provided by Stoutenburg.  The elder Wang married Wang Yueh-lan in 1935, with whom he
had no children, and had nine children by two other women, the
late Yang Chiao Wang and Lee Pao Chu. Winston Wong is Yang’s
eldest son.  Wang died in the U.S. in 2008 at the age of 91. He started
selling rice in 1932 as his first business before founding
Formosa Plastics Corp., a maker of polyvinyl chloride or PVC, in
1954. With factories in  China ,  Indonesia , Taiwan, the U.S. and
 Vietnam , Formosa’s products range from semiconductors, textiles,
to detergents.  An independent global investigation has identified total
assets worth nearly $18 billion, according to a 2011 lawsuit
filed in Hong Kong’s Court of First Instance.  The case is Between Wong Wen-Young and Grand View Private
Trust Co.,  Supreme Court  of Bermuda.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Debra Mao in Taipei at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  