-- Fracking Doesn’t Cause Significant Earthquakes, Study Says
-- B y   N i d a a   B a k h s h
-- 2013-04-10T11:16:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/fracking-doesn-t-cause-significant-quakes-university-study-says.html
Hydraulic fracturing used to access
oil and gas from rock and shale hasn’t caused “significant”
earthquakes, according to a study by Durham University.  “Hydraulic fracturing is not a significant mechanism for
inducing felt earthquakes,” Richard Davies, director of the
U.K. university’s  energy institute , said today in a statement.
“The size and number of felt earthquakes caused by fracking is
low compared to other manmade triggers such as mining,
geothermal activity or reservoir water storage.”  Tremors aren’t the only concern about the method, known as
fracking, according to a Greenpeace statement. “Communities
have also expressed concern about noise, disruption, traffic,
falling house prices and a general industrialization of the
English countryside,” Lawrence Carter, an energy campaigner for
the environmental group, said in the statement.  Cuadrilla Resources Ltd. drilling caused two tremors in
2011 in northwest  England , leading to an 18-month moratorium on
fracking, which uses water, chemicals and sand to blast
underground rock and release trapped fuel. The government lifted
the ban in December and is preparing tax breaks to encourage
drillers as it seeks to expand domestic energy sources amid
declining North Sea fossil fuel production.  The Durham study of hundreds of thousands of fracking
operations since 1929 found the process has the potential to
reactivate dormant faults, the university said.  Avoid Faults  “We cannot see every fault underground and therefore
cannot completely discount the possibility of the process
causing a small felt earthquake,” Davies said. “But there are
ways to further mitigate against the possibility; the oil and
gas industry can avoid faults that are critically stressed and
already near breaking point.”  Earthquakes caused by mining can range from 1.6 to 5.6 in
magnitude and reservoir-filling can trigger tremors of as high
as 7.9, according to the study. In comparison, fracking can
cause movements of 1 to 3.8 magnitude, it said.  In the Netherlands, two quakes measuring 3.2 and 2.7 struck
the gas-rich Groningen area in early February. The tremors near
Blackpool in the U.K. two years ago were 2.3 and 1.5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nidaa Bakhsh in London at 
 nbakhsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  