-- Gazprom Says Gas Trends So Far This Year Back Up Export Forecast
-- B y   O l g a   T a n a s   a n d   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 2013-04-09T13:52:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/gazprom-says-gas-trends-so-far-this-year-back-up-export-forecast.html
OAO Gazprom (GAZP)  Chief Executive Officer
Alexey Miller said trends so far this year bare out the biggest
natural-gas producer’s prior forecast that exports will recover
to 2011 levels amid colder-than-usual March weather in  Europe .  “If the trend that we have seen since the beginning of the
year continues, I think that our forecast is realistic,” Miller
said. “There is still lots of time ahead. We will see how the
market will act. So far the trends are very favorable for gas.”  The Moscow-based company, supplier of about a quarter of
Europe’s gas, increased exports 6 percent in the first quarter
from the same period a year earlier, while March deliveries rose
30 percent, he said. The shipments grew 50 percent in the last
week of March, and were 60 percent higher some days, he said.  Exports fell 7.5 percent to 138.8 billion cubic meters last
year as European economies slowed and countries relied on their
own reserves or cheaper coal. This year March was colder than
typical in  Germany , Gazprom’s biggest market in western Europe,
as well as in the U.K.,  France  and the Nordic region.  European spot prices are “very favorable,” above those in
Gazprom’s long-term contracts, Miller said after returning from
Amsterdam, where he signed deals with  Royal Dutch Shell (RDSA)  and
Nederlandse Gasunie NV during President  Vladimir Putin ’s visit.  Gazprom and Gasunie yesterday agreed to study expanding the
Nord Stream pipeline and building a link to the U.K. It will
study possible joint exploration and output with Shell in the
Russian Arctic shelf and a deep-water block outside the country.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net 
Olga Tanas in Moscow at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  