-- GE Plans to Cut 950 Jobs at 100-Year-Old Train Plant
-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 2013-04-09T18:37:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/ge-plans-to-cut-950-jobs-at-100-year-old-train-plant.html
General Electric Co. (GE)  plans to cut
950 jobs at a  Pennsylvania  locomotive plant, wiping out most of
the site’s recent employment growth, as it shifts some
production to a lower-cost factory in  Texas .  Reductions at the factory in Erie, Pennsylvania, which is
more than 100 years old, are slated to start in six months
pending 60 days of talks with union officials, who oppose the
move. The new plant in  Fort Worth , Texas, is about 20 percent
more efficient, said Lorenzo Simonelli, head of GE’s
transportation unit.  “Cost is becoming more and more of a factor,” Simonelli
said in an interview. “We’ve got to match our competition and
that’s what we’re trying to do.”  GE had expanded its workforce at Erie by about 1,000 in the
past two years to 5,500 today as it increased output of
locomotives and mining equipment. The plant in Fort Worth, which
employs a fraction of that number, began some production in June
and started building locomotives in January.  Transportation and other manufacturing businesses like
health care and energy have been a focus of Chief Executive
Officer  Jeffrey Immelt ’s growth strategy. He’s shrinking the
finance unit after credit-market disruptions in 2008 jeopardized
the company.  Industrial sales accounted for more than  65 percent  of GE’s
$144.8 billion in revenue last year, with $5.6 billion coming
from GE Transportation. The Fairfield, Connecticut-based company
is the world’s largest builder of locomotives.  Coal’s Decline  Simonelli said production of Evolution-series locomotives
will be increased in Fort Worth, along with wheels for mining
equipment, as output in Erie is reduced. About 10 percent of the
work now handled at the Pennsylvania site will be moved to
 Mexico  and third-party manufacturers, he said.  Approximately 200 of the Erie job cuts, more than 20
percent, are linked to declining coal demand, Simonelli said.
GE’s railroad customers have parked about 3,000 locomotives as
utilities that once relied on coal carried by trains to produce
electricity began switching to cheaper natural gas from shale
formations.  “The outlook for the volume on the locomotive side as well
as from the coal-mining equipment is down versus what we
anticipated,” Simonelli said.  The number of reductions at Erie may change depending on
negotiations with the union, he said.  Union Resistance  The United Electrical, Radio and Machine Workers of
America, which represents about 3,500 GE workers in Erie, said
the shift is unacceptable.  “We intend to resist this with every tool at our disposal
and to fight tooth and nail to retain all of the work that has
always been done there,” Chris Townsend, the union’s political
director, said in a telephone interview.  Since 2011, GE has spent about $140 million upgrading the
Erie plant to boost capacity and add research and testing
technology.  The factory remains the global headquarters for GE
Transportation’s locomotive business, and will continue to build
locomotives as well as components for the Fort Worth plant and
overseas facilities.  Simonelli said the Fort Worth factory, which began
production of mining components in June, is more efficient than
Erie based on “a number of different attributes,” including
the plant’s layout and workforce rules.  GE plans to boost employment there to  550 workers  over the
next 18 months from 330 now.  The Fort Worth plant’s lack of organized labor wasn’t a
consideration in the decision to cut jobs in Erie, Simonelli
said. Texas, a right-to-work state, forbids requiring union
membership as a condition of employment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Black  in Dallas at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  