-- Gene Doubles Risk of Late-Onset Alzheimer’s in Blacks
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2013-04-09T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/gene-doubles-risk-of-late-onset-alzheimer-s-in-blacks.html
Black people with a certain genetic
variant may face a doubled risk of late-developing Alzheimer’s
disease, a study found.  The gene, dubbed ABCA7, is not as important for white
patients, according to the study published today in the  Journal
of the American Medical Association . The DNA’s involvement in
processing cholesterol and lipids, though, is consistent with a
higher prevalence in blacks of heart disease and strokes, the
researchers wrote.  The study included almost 6,000 black people ages 60 or
older who were mostly volunteers from 18 Alzheimer’s disease
centers funded by the U.S.  National Institutes of Health . The
scope of the trial makes it unique because blacks are only 10
percent of the elderly population, said  Richard Mayeux , the
study author.  “This is a big part of the population that’s really
understudied,” said Mayeux, who is chairman of neurology at
 Columbia University Medical Center  in  New York . “Most of the
gene discoveries have been in white populations, and if the goal
is to identify potential treatments, then to not look at an
African American population is a big mistake.”  More than 5 million Americans have Alzheimer’s, which is
the most-common type of dementia, according to the  Alzheimer’s
Association . Global dementia cases are expected to double within
20 years to as many as 65.7 million people, the Geneva-based
 World Health Organization  has said.  The research, funded by the  National Institute on Aging ,
found that ABCA7 boosted the risk of Alzheimer’s about 1.8-fold
in blacks compared with about 1.1-fold in those of European
descent. About a third of those studied had been diagnosed with
Alzheimer’s and two-thirds were cognitively normal, according to
the study.  Late-onset Alzheimer’s is more common among blacks than in
whites living in the same community. This finding may help
explain why, Mayeux said in a telephone interview.  “We found a gene that was just under the radar screen in
most studies of whites,” he said. “It’s a major player in this
group.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  San Francisco  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  