-- German Stocks Drop to Six-Week Low; Volkswagen Slides
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2013-04-09T16:09:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/german-stocks-gain-as-alcoa-starts-u-s-earnings-season.html
German stocks  dropped to a six-week
low as the nation’s exports fell and Federal Reserve Bank of St.
Louis President James Bullard signaled the U.S. central bank may
reduce bond purchases.  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  slid to the lowest level since November as
sales declined.  K+S AG (SDF)  retreated for an eighth day after
Berenberg Bank downgraded the potash producer.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) 
increased 3.1 percent as financial shares in the regional Stoxx
Europe 600 Index advanced.  The  DAX (DAX)  Index slipped 0.3 percent to 7,637.51 at the close
of trading in  Frankfurt , having earlier advanced as much as 0.8
percent, as  Alcoa (AA)  Inc. began the U.S. earnings season. The
benchmark gauge has still climbed 13 percent in the past year as
U.S. data pointed to a recovery in the world’s biggest economy
and central banks maintained so-called quantitative easing. The
broader HDAX Index also declined 0.3 percent today.  “Stock markets are dragging down amid the beginning of the
earnings season,” said Andreas Lipkow, a senior market
strategist at Kliegel & Hafner AG in Berlin. “Statements from
St. Louis Fed President  James Bullard  about a possible reduction
of the QE program are one reason and uncertainties about the
ongoing U.S. earnings season is the other.”  The volume of shares changing hands in companies listed on
the DAX was 19 percent lower than the average of the last 30
days, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Bullard, one of the first Fed officials to urge slowing the
pace of bond buying in 2013 if economic conditions allowed, told
CNBC today in an interview that policy makers probably will
“slowly ratchet down the pace of purchases” as the economy
continues to improve.  Alcoa Results  Alcoa, the largest U.S. aluminum producer, late yesterday
posted first-quarter profit excluding an income-tax benefit and
other one-time items of 11 cents a share, beating the 8-cent
average analyst forecast, as demand from airplane and car
manufacturers increased. Earnings at companies in the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index will drop 1.8 percent in the first quarter,
according to estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  German exports  fell more than economists forecast in
February as the euro area, the country’s biggest trading
partner, struggled to emerge from recession. Exports, adjusted
for working days and seasonal changes, dropped 1.5 percent from
January, the Federal Statistics Office said. Economists had
forecast a 0.3 percent decline, according to the median of 15
estimates in a Bloomberg survey. Imports dropped 3.8 percent.  Volkswagen fell 2.6 percent to 152 euros, the lowest price
since Nov. 16.  Europe ’s largest automaker said markets are
becoming “more challenging” after posting a sales decline at
its namesake brand last month.  VW Sales  The VW marque’s first-quarter deliveries in Europe dropped
10 percent. Sales in  Germany , the region’s largest market,
plummeted 15 percent.  K+S, Europe’s largest potash maker, fell 1.2 percent to
34.51 euros. The stock was downgraded to sell from buy at
Berenberg, which said it prefers producers of seeds and crop
protection in the agrochemical sector over fertilizer makers.  Adidas AG (ADS) , the world’s second-largest sporting goods maker,
dropped 2.1 percent to 77.05 euros for a fifth straight day of
losses.  Infineon Technologies AG (IFX)  slid 2.4 percent to 5.87 euros,
its lowest price since Dec. 14.  Deutsche Bank, Germany’s largest lender, rose 3.1 percent
to 31.12 euros, snapping four days of losses. Commerzbank AG,
the second-biggest, gained 2.2 percent to 1.16 euros.  Aurubis AG (NDA)  gained 6 percent to 48.35 euros, the biggest
jump in eight months. The world’s second-largest producer of
refined copper said U.S. orders for the metal are rebounding as
European demand improves.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  