-- German Exports Fell in February Amid Euro-Area Recession
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2013-04-09T07:06:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/german-exports-fell-in-february-amid-euro-area-recession.html
German exports fell more than
economists forecast in February as the euro area, the country’s
biggest trading partner, struggled to emerge from recession.  Exports, adjusted for working days and seasonal changes,
dropped 1.5 percent from January, when they gained 1.3 percent,
the Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said today.
Economists forecast a 0.3 percent decline, according to the
median of 15 estimates in a  Bloomberg News survey . Imports fell
3.8 percent.  Germany’s economy, Europe’s largest, probably returned to
growth in the first quarter after contracting 0.6 percent in the
final three months of last year. Still, renewed financial-market
turmoil after inconclusive elections in  Italy  and a bailout in
Cyprus may delay a recovery in the 17-nation euro area.  “The export-driven manufacturing sector, which accounts
for roughly a quarter of German gross domestic product, has not
fully turned around yet,” said  Christian Schulz , senior
European economist at Berenberg Bank in London. “While much of
the  euro zone  remains in serious recession, Germany will have to
rely on domestic demand and exports to stronger economies such
as China and the U.S. for a growth rebound.”  The  trade surplus  increased to 16.8 billion euros ($21.9
billion) from 13.6 billion euros in January. The surplus in the
current account, a measure of all trade including services, was
16 billion euros, up from 9.7 billion euros.  Ready to Act  Shipments from Germany to the euro area dropped 4.1 percent
in February from a year ago, while those to the European Union
decreased 3.4 percent. Exports to non-EU members fell 1.9
percent, today’s report showed.  The  European Central Bank  last week said it stands ready to
cut  interest rates  if the region’s economy deteriorates further,
and that officials are also considering further non-standard
measures to stimulate growth.  Lending to the private sector fell for a 10th month in
February, while manufacturing and services activity contracted
more than forecast in March, adding to signs that the gradual
recovery predicted by ECB President  Mario Draghi  may not
materialize.  Still, Schaeffler AG, an industrial bearing maker that’s
the biggest investor in car-parts producer  Continental AG (CON) , said
on March 21 that demand in North American and Asia will more
than make up for a drop in European sales this year.  “While it’s clear that Germany can’t de-couple itself from
the euro area, the rest of the world is proving relatively
stable,” said Johannes Gareis, an economist at Natixis in
Frankfurt. “That’s helped make up for the weakness in Europe.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  