-- German Nuclear Operators to Pay for $2.6 Billion Waste Site
-- B y   A l a n   C r a w f o r d
-- 2013-04-09T19:11:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/german-nuclear-operators-to-pay-for-2-6-billion-waste-site.html
German nuclear-power operators will
have to pay an estimated 2 billion euros ($2.6 billion) for
identifying and building an atomic-waste depository, Environment
Minister Peter Altmaier said.  “The cost of dealing with nuclear waste will be borne by
those who produced it,” Altmaier said today in an interview on
N24 television. “In the end, it’s also in the interests of the
nuclear operators that we identify a depository.”  RWE AG (RWE) , EON
SE and  EnBW Energie Baden-Wuerttemberg AG (EBK)  currently operate the
country’s remaining nine nuclear plants, one of which is shared
with Vattenfall AB.  Altmaier, a member of  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s Christian
Democratic Union party, is seeking political consensus on  energy
policy  as federal elections approach in less than six months. He
is due to meet today with state leaders and the heads of
 Germany ’s main political parties to begin anew the search for a
facility to handle the country’s most dangerous nuclear waste
amid public opposition to the sole existing provisional site, at
Gorleben in Lower Saxony state.  He wants a cross-party commission to draw up criteria for
identifying a permanent site by the end of 2015, with an
operational facility to be in place by 2031. A draft for
identifying the depository should be created “as soon as
possible” with the goal of pushing through the law before
parliament’s summer break, Altmaier said in a statement today.  Party Talks  Altmaier’s predecessor, Norbert Roettgen, tried and failed
to restart the search after holding cross-party talks in
November 2011. At that point, Germany, which plans to close all
its atomic reactors by 2022, had already spent more than 1
billion euros of taxpayers’ money since the 1980s to determine
whether the Gorleben site was appropriate. The previous
government of  Social Democrats  and Greens blocked research at
the site for 10 years through 2010.  “In the last 30 years the search has been so difficult
because it’s been so controversial politically,” Altmaier said.
After  Japan ’s Fukushima disaster and the decision to shutter
Germany’s nuclear plants, “we’re looking for a new beginning.”  Altmaier said that he had pledged no further nuclear waste
will be transported to Gorleben “while the search goes on,”
and that Germany “will do everything to ensure that no German
nuclear transport goes outside the country.”  Gorleben became a focus of anti-nuclear protests after
exploration began in 1979 with the aim of setting up a permanent
underground storage site. Work was halted with the 2000 nuclear
shutdown law brought in the then ruling Social Democrats and
Greens.  Merkel, a former minister for the environment and reactor
safety in Chancellor Helmut Kohl’s government from 1994 to 1998,
appeared before a parliamentary inquiry in September 2012 to
explain her role in planning the Gorleben facility.  Deutsches Atomforum, a lobby group of the operators of
German nuclear  power plants , said it saw no legal grounds for
funding the search for alternative sites to Gorleben until a
final judgment on the former salt mine’s suitability has been
made.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Crawford in Berlin at 
 acrawford6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  