-- Facebook Wins Back GM as Carmaker Reverses Ads Decision
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s   a n d   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2013-04-10T20:34:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/gm-returns-to-facebook-ads-with-test-of-mobile-program.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  won back  General
Motors Co. (GM)  as an advertising customer a year after the automaker
said it would quit running marketing messages on the world’s
largest social-networking service.  The test ads, running on Facebook’s mobile applications and
website, will promote the  Chevrolet  Sonic subcompact car, GM
said yesterday in an e-mailed statement. It’s part of a broader
GM mobile-marketing effort.  Facebook has been introducing new tools and services to
keep users engaged longer and lure advertisers. GM’s decision to
end Facebook ads in May heightened investor concerns that other
large advertisers would reconsider the website. The reversal
shows the headway Chief Executive Officer  Mark Zuckerberg  is
making in getting companies to tout wares to people socializing
on handheld devices.  “To Facebook’s credit, I think they also got better about
understanding how to better target certain users and to get
messages across in that way instead of being just a social
network,” Thilo Koslowski, an auto industry analyst with
Gartner Inc. based in San Jose,  California , said in a telephone
interview.  Facebook rose 3.7 percent to $27.57 at the close in New
York, bringing the stock’s gain for 2013 to 3.6 percent. GM
increased 3.1 percent to $28.37, and has declined 1.6 percent so
far this year. By contrast, the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has
gained 11 percent in 2013.  Facebook had made an effort to win back GM’s business with
Chief Operating Officer Sheryl Sandberg talking with GM Chief
Executive Officer Dan Akerson last year about resuming ads,
people familiar with the discussion said at the time.  ‘Ongoing Dialogue’  “We’ve had an ongoing dialogue with GM over the last
twelve months and are pleased to have them back as an advertiser
on Facebook,” Adam Isserlis, a spokesman for Menlo Park,
 California-based Facebook , said in an e-mailed statement.  Facebook rolled out its mobile-advertising service in March
2012, trying to better monetize the growing number of users
accessing the service through wireless devices. More than 60
percent of its 1.1 billion members use the service when they’re
on smartphones and tablets, according to a regulatory filing.  By the fourth quarter of last year, mobile generated 23
percent of Facebook’s advertising revenue, up from 14 percent in
the third quarter. Still, it lags behind  Google Inc. (GOOG) , which is
projected to grab 57 percent of the U.S. market for mobile
advertising in 2015, according to researcher EMarketer Inc.  “It shows one thing: Nobody can really ignore Facebook,”
Koslowski said. “GM realizes there must be a value proposition
for them to go to Facebook.”  Facebook Home  Mobile software introduced this month, called Facebook
Home, is designed to make it easier for users to access the
social network on smartphones and encourage them to spend more
time with the service.  Reviews have been mostly positive, concluding that the
software will appeal to users who are already Facebook fans.
Walt Mossberg, the technology critic for the Wall Street
Journal, called it “easy to use, elegantly designed and
addictive,” while  singling out  the difficulty of using a camera
with the software.  Bloomberg’s  Rich Jaroslovsky  agreed that Facebook Home will
appeal to regular users of the social-networking service, though
he found the software made it difficult to get to smartphone
apps.  “Facebook addicts will probably love Home for the same
reason that non-Facebook addicts won’t: its single-minded focus
on interacting not with apps but with friends,” Jaroslovsky
wrote in his review.  GM, based in  Detroit , spent $10 million on paid Facebook
ads in 2011, a person familiar with the spending said last year.  Undoing Ewanick  GM’s decision a year ago also raised questions over the ad
strategy of then-GM Chief Marketing Officer  Joel Ewanick . He was
ousted as marketing chief in July over the cost of a sponsorship
deal with the Manchester United soccer team, people familiar
with the move said at the time.  GM in January replaced his Chevy Runs Deep tagline with
Find New Roads and the company is looking at changing its
advertising agency for Cadillac.  “Chevrolet is launching an industry-first ‘mobile-only’
pilot campaign for the Chevrolet Sonic that utilizes newly
available targeting and measurement capabilities on Facebook,”
Chris Perry, U.S. Chevrolet marketing vice president, said in
yesterday’s statement.  The structure of an ad agency set up to conduct Chevy’s
advertising globally last year was also changed in March when
Interpublic Group of Cos.’s McCann Worldgroup gained control of
the joint venture called Commonwealth.  Super Bowl  Along with ending GM’s paid advertising with Facebook,
Ewanick also said the automaker wouldn’t advertise during this
year’s National Football League’s Super Bowl championship game
on CBS. Months after Ewanick’s departure, GM announced it would
advertise during Super Bowl pre-game programming.  The automaker’s U.S. ad spending declined 9 percent to
$1.17 billion during the first three quarters of 2012 compared
with the same period in 2011, according to Kantar Media. GM
continued to have an unpaid presence on Facebook via pages for
its brands.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Higgins in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Womack in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  