-- GM Workers in Spain Accept Wage Freeze to Boost Competitiveness
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2013-04-09T16:00:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/gm-workers-in-spain-accept-wage-freeze-to-boost-competitiveness.html
General Motors Co. (GM) ’s workers at its
auto-assembly plant in northern Spain accepted a two-year salary
freeze as part of a labor deal aimed at boosting competitiveness
against other European factories.  The roughly 6,000 employees at the plant near Zaragoza
won’t get a wage increase in 2013 and 2014 as part of a five-
year collective bargaining agreement that was voted on
yesterday, Pilar Guridi, a Madrid-based spokeswoman for GM’s
Spanish division, said today.  The agreement should help the Zaragoza plant be “part of
the company’s investment plans and allotment of new models,”
the carmaker said in an e-mailed statement.  GM’s European operations, which consist primarily of
Ruesselsheim, Germany-based Opel and its British sister brand
Vauxhall, have accumulated losses of $18 billion since 1999. The
Detroit-based company, which plans to shut a factory in Germany
to save costs, aims break even in Europe by 2015.  Salaries at the Spanish plant, which makes the Corsa
subcompact and Meriva small van, could rise as much as 1.5
percent starting in 2015 and will be reviewed in 2016 and 2017
based on potential profit at GM in Europe, Guridi said. Almost
65 percent of workers participating in the ballot voted in favor
of the agreement, she said. About 67 percent of the plant’s
staff participated in the ballot.  As labor costs fall and Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy ’s
legislation makes it easier for companies to cut wages and
reorganize staff, carmakers including  Ford Motor Co. (F) ,  Renault SA (RNO) 
and  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG)  are boosting production in Spain. The
government is also offering incentives for drivers willing to
part with with their old vehicles after car sales in the country
dropped 13 percent last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  