-- Goldman Sachs Wins Dismissal of Capmark’s Lawsuit
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-04-10T01:51:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/goldman-sachs-wins-dismissal-of-capmark-s-147-million-suit.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  doesn’t
have to face Capmark Financial Group Inc.’s $147 million lawsuit
claiming it was improperly influenced by the bank to refinance
$1.5 billion in unsecured debt in a way that improved its
position as a creditor, a judge said.  U.S. District Judge Robert Sweet in  Manhattan  yesterday
ruled that  Capmark, which sued Goldman in 2011, can’t recover
the money. Horsham, Pennsylvania-based Capmark claimed the sum
was an insider preference paid to Goldman within a year of the
Capmark bankruptcy.  Sweet said Capmark can’t claim the presence of a Goldman
employee on its board means that the New York-based bank must
return the $147 million because that argument contradicts its
earlier position in the bankruptcy case.  “Plaintiffs represented to the Delaware  bankruptcy court 
that the secured credit facility was negotiated at ‘arm’s
length,’” Sweet said in a decision made public today.
“Plaintiffs now assert a claim that requires the secured credit
facility to have been a non-arms-length transaction.”  Capmark, the commercial lender once a part of the former
General Motors Corp., exited bankruptcy in September 2011, co-
owned by lower-ranking creditors, some of whom fought in
bankruptcy court with Goldman Sachs over the refinancing and the
payments to the bank.  Capmark’s Claim  Capmark claimed that while the bank owned part of it in May
2009, a group of Goldman Sachs units used their influence to
persuade Capmark to refinance $1.5 billion in unsecured debt
owed the firm. The refinancing allowed Goldman Sachs to collect
$147 million, including $7 million in cash, based on the new
secured loan, according to the lawsuit.  Adam Shiff, a lawyer for Capmark, didn’t immediately return
a voice-mail message seeking comment on Sweet’s ruling.  Capmark filed bankruptcy on Oct. 25, 2009, blaming falling
property values and a drop in lending.  The case is  Capmark Financial Group Inc. (CPMK)  v. Goldman Sachs
Credit Partners LP, 11-cv-07511, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  