-- Goldman Changes Brent-WTI Recommendation on Weaker U.S. Output
-- B y   A n n   K o h
-- 2013-04-09T03:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/goldman-changes-brent-wti-recommendation-on-weaker-u-s-output.html
Weaker-than-expected U.S. crude
output reduces the risk that Brent oil’s premium to West  Texas 
Intermediate will rebound, allowing investors to bet on a
narrower spread for longer, according to  Goldman Sachs Group. (GS)   Goldman recommends buying WTI futures for September
delivery and selling Brent for the same month, revising its
previous recommendation for a similar trade using June
contracts, Stefan Wieler, an analyst at the bank in  New York ,
said in a report e-mailed today.  Crude output in Texas and  New Mexico  has been weaker than
expected over the past three months, reducing the risk that the
Texas Gulf Coast will be “oversaturated” with light crude and
depress WTI prices, according to Goldman. Crude inventories at
Cushing,  Oklahoma , the delivery point for New York-traded
futures, will peak in late April or early May at about 53
million barrels, it said. The bank previously forecast that the
Brent-WTI spread would reach its narrowest point in the third
quarter before widening.  “We believe the slower than expected production growth
greatly reduces this risk,” Wieler said in the report. “We
believe that we remain on track for a significant change in the
Cushing balance starting in late May that will lead to sharp
inventory drawdowns, putting further pressure on WTI-Brent
spreads to narrow.”  WTI for May delivery was at $93.54 a barrel, up 18 cents,
in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  at
10:46 a.m. Singapore time today. Brent for May settlement rose
38 cents to $105.04 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange.  The European benchmark grade was at a premium of $11.50 to
WTI futures. The spread ended the session at $11.30 yesterday,
the narrowest gap since June 22.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ann Koh in Singapore at 
 akoh15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  