-- Goldman Sachs Loses Bid to End Prudential Fraud Lawsuit
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2013-04-09T21:58:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/goldman-sachs-loses-bid-to-end-prudential-fraud-lawsuit.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  failed to
win dismissal of a lawsuit claiming it engaged in fraud and
racketeering in selling $375 million of residential mortgage-
backed securities to  Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU)   U.S. District Judge Susan Wigenton in Newark,  New Jersey ,
ruled today that Prudential, the second-largest U.S. life
insurer, sufficiently pleaded its claims that Goldman
misrepresented its underwriting standards and practices. Goldman
will have other opportunities to seek dismissal of the lawsuit.  Prudential, based in Newark, bought securities from Goldman
in 16 deals, according to Wigenton’s opinion.  Goldman, based in  New York , asked the judge to dismiss the
complaint, arguing that Prudential didn’t adequately state its
case for fraud and racketeering.  Wigenton disagreed, ruling that Prudential “adequately
pled a cause of action for fraud” and sufficiently stated its
case that Goldman Sachs violated New Jersey’s civil anti-
racketeering statute.  The purchases were made from February 2004 to December
2008, according to the opinion.  The parties have not yet engaged in the pretrial exchange
of evidence.  Michael DuVally , a spokesman for Goldman Sachs, and Scot
Hoffman, a Prudential spokesman, declined to comment on the
ruling.  Goldman Sachs also argued that New York law, not New Jersey
law, applies to the fraud and RICO claims. Wigenton ruled that
“determining a choice of law at this stage is premature”
regarding fraud claims. She made a similar ruling with regard to
the Goldman Sachs motion on the racketeering claim.  The case is Prudential Insurance Co. v. Goldman Sachs &
Company, 2:12-cv-06590, U.S. District Court, District of New
Jersey (Newark).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey
at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  