-- Greenpeace Calls for EU Ban on Seven Pesticides Due to Bee Risk
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2013-04-09T15:12:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/greenpeace-calls-for-eu-ban-on-seven-pesticides-due-to-bee-risk.html
Greenpeace called on European Union
policy makers to ban pesticides including crop-protection
chemicals from  Bayer AG (BAYN) ,  Syngenta AG (SYNN)  and  BASF SE (BAS) , saying the
products play a role in honeybee deaths.  The environmental campaign group said it identified seven
“priority bee-killer” pesticides that should be banned due to
high toxicity and the impact they have on bees, according to an
e-mailed statement today.  The “decline in bee populations is the result of multiple
factors such as diseases and parasites,  climate change  and wider
industrial-agricultural practices,” Greenpeace wrote.
“Scientific evidence highlights the deadly role of some
pesticides, including the mass-killer neonicotinoids.”  Leverkusen, Germany-based Bayer and Basel, Switzerland-
based Syngenta outlined a plan last month to improve bee health
in the EU as the companies seek to head off a ban proposed by
the European Commission on some uses of neonicotinoid
insecticides. Syngenta has said falling bee populations have
nothing to do with chemicals, blaming parasitic mites that
transmit diseases.  Bayer, Syngenta and BASF referred questions about the
Greenpeace e-mail to a statement e-mailed today by lobby
Industrieverband Agrar e.V., or IVA, which said the
environmental group’s campaign is based on “pseudo-science”
and research that used pesticide levels that don’t occur in the
field.  The commission, the EU’s executive arm, proposed in January
to suspend the use of three neonicotinoids on sunflowers,
rapeseed, corn and cotton. EU country experts failed to agree
last month on either approving or rejecting the suggested two-
year ban.  Nervous System  Neonicotinoids, which work on the central nervous-system of
insects, pose a “high acute risk” to bees through nectar and
pollen of some treated crops and through drifting dust, the
European Food Safety Authority wrote in a Jan. 16 report.  Greenpeace wants Bayer’s imidacloprid and clothianidin,
Syngenta’s thiamethoxam, BASF’s fipronil, as well as
chlorpyriphos, cypermethrin and deltamethrin produced by other
companies banned. To start, EU countries should back the
proposed neonicotinoid ban, it said.  “The negative impacts of bee-harming pesticides by far
exceed any presumed benefits,” Matthias Wuthrich, European bees
project leader at Greenpeace  Switzerland , was cited as saying in
the statement. “Our bees and wild pollinators are too precious
to lose.”  The call for a ban is “short-sighted” and helps neither
bees nor farmers, Volker Koch-Achelpohler, the chief executive
of IVA, was cited as saying in the statement.  “Productive agriculture requires both healthy pollinators,
such as bees and bumblebees, as well as effective plant
protection that allows farmers to protect their crops from
pests,” Koch-Achelpohler said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  