-- Miami Dolphins Stadium Deal Nearing May 14 Referendum
-- B y   A n n a   E d g e r t o n
-- 2013-04-09T19:10:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/miami-dolphins-stadium-deal-nearing-may-14-referendum.html
The  Miami Dolphins  reached an
agreement with local officials that paves the way for a
referendum on whether taxpayers should support part of a $350
million upgrade to the Sun Life football stadium.  Dolphins owner Stephen Ross, who has called the
improvements essential to attracting future  Super Bowls  and
other events, said in a statement that the team will pay for
about 70 percent of the renovations and any cost overruns. The
Dolphins proposal comes two years after voters, upset about
public financing of the $515 million Miami Marlins baseball
stadium, helped oust Miami-Dade County’s mayor.  Current Mayor Carlos Gimenez, who opposed an earlier
proposal that would have split the costs almost equally with
taxpayers, said he could back the new accord after including
“penalties for nonperformance.” County commissioners may vote
on the deal tomorrow and, if it’s approved, it will be included
in a May 14 public referendum the Dolphins agreed to fund.  “This is about getting some kind of return on public
dollars and it’s very similar to what we try to do when we try
to attract businesses or keep businesses in Miami-Dade,”
Gimenez said in a video posted on the Miami Herald’s  website .  Part of the $350 million deal would be funded by raising a
Miami-Dade County hotel-room tax to 7 percent from 6 percent.
The Dolphins would receive 75 percent of the added revenue, up
to an initial cap of $7.5 million annually, for as long as 26
years. The team would repay the county and state as much as $167
million for its share of the costs in about three decades.  New Features  The planned upgrade includes adding a canopy roof, new
video screens and wider seats for the stadium built in 1987. The
2007 Super Bowl at Sun Life Stadium was played in the rain.  Even if voters approve the financing plan, the county can
cancel the agreement if National Football League owners, meeting
on May 21-22, don’t award the 2016 or 2017 Super Bowl to Miami.
The Florida legislature must also approve any plan to provide
 tax revenue  for the stadium.  The proposal to seek public financing sparked a row between
Dolphins owner Ross and Miami-based car magnate Norman Braman,
both billionaires. Braman, a former owner of the NFL’s
 Philadelphia Eagles , called public financing the equivalent of
“welfare for a multibillionaire” and vowed to fund opposition
to a referendum. Ross has enlisted support from hoteliers such
as  Donald Trump  and  Jonathan Tisch , co-owner of the NFL’s  New
York  Giants.  “I love this community and nothing would make me prouder
than watching the Miami Dolphins play a Super Bowl in a
modernized Sun Life Stadium,” Ross said. “I know that together
we can make it happen.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edgerton in Miami at 
 aedgerton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  