-- Microsoft, Nokia Complain to EU Over Google Mobile Dominance
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2013-04-09T10:09:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/microsoft-nokia-complain-to-eu-over-google-s-android-dominance.html
A group representing  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT) ,  Expedia Inc. (EXPE)  and  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  filed an antitrust complaint
against  Google Inc. (GOOG)  over its Android operating system as part of
a campaign to force the European Union to fine or alter the
conduct of the owner of the world’s largest search engine.  FairSearch, a group of 17 technology and search companies,
said the EU should investigate Google’s “deceptive conduct to
lockout competition” in the mobile market with a goal to
“cement its control over consumer Internet data for online
advertising as usage shifts to mobile.”  “Google is using its Android mobile operating system as a
‘Trojan Horse’ to deceive partners, monopolize the mobile
marketplace, and control consumer data,” said  Thomas Vinje , a
lawyer in Brussels who represents the FairSearch industry group.
“Failure to act will only embolden Google to repeat its desktop
abuses of dominance as consumers increasingly turn to a mobile
platform dominated by Google’s Android.”  The EU is already investigating Google’s search business
and the  Mountain View , California-based company’s rivals have
made nearly weekly entreaties to the EU to take some action.
 TripAdvisor Inc. (TRIP)  and Expedia led a group in March that wrote to
EU Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia , and Microsoft days
later sent the EU a study questioning Google’s search results.  “We continue to work cooperatively with the European
Commission,” Al Verney, a Brussels-based spokesman for Google,
said in an e-mail today.  Antoine Colombani, a spokesman for Almunia, declined to
comment.  Mobile Dominance  According to FairSearch, Google’s Android system was used
as a smartphone operating system in 70 percent of handset units
shipped at the end of 2012. Google also dominates mobile search
advertising with 96 percent of the market, said FairSearch,
citing eMarketer.  Microsoft already has an antitrust complaint against Google
pending with the Brussels-based commission, alleging the company
promotes its own specialist search services, copies rivals’
travel and restaurant reviews, and discriminates against rivals.  The U.S. ended an investigation into Google’s search
business in January, saying there was no evidence that the
company’s actions harmed consumers. The commission, the EU’s
antitrust regulator, is seeking a deal with Google to end its
more than two-year-old probe into antitrust concerns with the
company’s search business.  Copied Reviews  Almunia last year asked Google to give him a detailed offer
to address allegations that it copies rivals’ travel and
restaurant reviews, and has agreements with websites and
software developers that stifle competition in the advertising
industry.  After receiving Google’s settlement offer in January,
Almunia said he hoped to check it with rivals and customers “in
the coming months” and finalize it later this year.  Almunia said in an interview with the  New York  Times
published yesterday that he expects new proposals from Google
this week to help with concerns over its search practices and
any changes the company proposed would be submitted to
competitors for comment.  Almunia said the company needed to offer the commission a
solution where choices between Google-branded search results and
those of its competitors were clearly visible within the search
engine both on desktop computers and on mobile devices, the
Times reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  