-- Microsoft Surface Warranty Criticized in China After Apple Woes
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-04-09T04:37:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/microsoft-surface-warranty-criticized-in-china-after-apple-woes.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s after-sales
service of its Surface tablet has attracted criticism from
 China ’s state-owned radio, following similar reports in the past
month targeting  Apple Inc. (AAPL)   The Surface Pro should follow the nation’s law requiring
 notebook computers  to have a one-year repair warranty for the
whole device and a two-year warranty for main parts, as compared
with the company’s one-year pledge for both, China National
Radio reported yesterday. Joanna Li, a Beijing-based spokeswoman
for Microsoft, said she couldn’t immediately comment on the
report today.  The criticism by China National Radio may be the opening
shot against the world’s largest software maker, similar to what
Apple faced in the past month, said Doug Young, author of the
book “The Party Line: How the Media Dictates Public Opinion in
Modern China.” After a March 15 report by  China Central
Television  criticized Apple’s  customer service , the People’s
Daily published more than a dozen articles on the subject.  “It sounds potentially worrisome; it looks a copycat of
the whole Apple thing,” Young said. China National Radio “is
trying to jump on the same bandwagon,” he said.  Most western companies already provide much better after-
sales service than Chinese companies, Young said.  Apple Apology  Apple Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook  apologized to
Chinese consumers on April 2 after two weeks of being lambasted
by state-run media for arrogance and poor customer service.
China shouldn’t loosen regulations on Apple because of that
apology, the People’s Daily said yesterday.  Pan Yi, a reporter at China National Radio, said the
station looked into the story after listeners complained about
Microsoft’s after-sales policies.  “Our story is not really related to CCTV’s Apple story,”
Pan said in a phone interview. “A lot of foreign companies are
not very familiar with China’s after-sales policies.”  Microsoft began selling Surface tablets in China in October
and made its first global sale in Beijing as the Redmond,
Washington-based company tried to win favor with local consumers
tired of waiting months for access to the latest Apple products,
which are sold in the U.S. first.  In the March 15 report, the state broadcaster said the
owners of  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s cars in China have reported instances
of abnormal vibrations, loss of power and sudden acceleration.
The problems are related to the direct-shift gearbox system, it
said in its program marking World Consumer Rights Day.
Volkswagen said at the time it will contact the involved
customers and make any necessary repairs.  China’s quality watchdog introduced laws this year allowing
the government to order investigations and impose fines should
manufacturers and importers fail to recall faulty vehicles in a
timely manner.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net ;
Lulu Yilun Chen in  Hong Kong  at 
 ychen447@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  