-- Woods Lauds Augusta National’s Addition of Female Members
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2013-04-09T19:45:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/tiger-woods-lauds-augusta-national-s-addition-of-female-members.html
Tiger Woods applauded the addition
of  Condoleezza Rice  and Darla Moore to the list of members at
Augusta National Golf Club, home of the  Masters Tournament .  “I think it’s fantastic,” Woods said at a press
conference today in Augusta, Georgia. “It was the right timing.
And for me, knowing Condoleezza over all these years, it
couldn’t have been a better person.”  Woods, 37, attended Stanford University, where Rice, the
58-year-old former U.S. Secretary of State, is now a professor
and senior fellow.  Woods was the first black golfer to win the Masters, in
1997, at the private club that didn’t admit its first black
member until 1990. He and his wife of four years, Elin Nordegren, divorced after Woods acknowledged a series of
extramarital affairs.  Rice and Moore, a Rainwater Inc. financier, became the
private club’s first female members in August 2012 following
almost a decade of scrutiny over its all-male membership.  Rice played a casual round of golf with three-time Masters
champion  Phil Mickelson  two days ago ahead of this week’s
tournament. She was later shown by the Golf Channel wearing the
club’s traditional green jacket as she talked with players and
fellow members on the practice range.  “She happens to be one of my favorite people to spend time
with,” Mickelson said in a press conference today.
“Fascinating, intelligent. I’ve been a big fan of hers and have
been fortunate to get to know her over the years. She never
disappoints. She’s just a special person.”  Silent Membership  Rice, who mingled with members and guests at the club’s new
Berckmans Place hospitality pavilion yesterday, hasn’t spoken
with the media this week. Augusta National members don’t give
interviews during the event, according to club policy.  Augusta National’s members include  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) 
CEO  Warren Buffett  and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  co-founder  Bill Gates .
Controversy over the club’s all-male membership flared last
March when  Bloomberg News  reported that the ascension of Ginni Rometty to the chief executive officer’s job with  International
Business Machines Corp. (IBM) , a tournament sponsor, would create a
conundrum for the organization: It would have to either stop
offering membership to IBM CEOs or break its prohibition on
women in general.  Rice and Moore were added five months later.  Final Putt  Mickelson said Rice ended her round two days ago with a 40-
foot par putt at the final hole, according to the Golf Channel.  As Rice played a round with Mickelson, MSNBC aired an
interview with Moore, 58, who described her invitation to become
an Augusta National member as a “lifetime honor.”  Moore, who was interviewed at her 300-acre estate in Lake
City,  South Carolina , said that while her goal as a
philanthropist is to effect positive change, she has no plans to
push for more female members at the golf club.  “I wouldn’t think that would be something I would do,”
Moore said in the  interview . “That wouldn’t be my role there.
I’m a member. I’m not an advocate, I’m a member.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  