-- IMF Sees Inflation Tame If Central Banks Are Free to Respond
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2013-04-09T16:00:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/imf-sees-inflation-tame-if-central-banks-stay-free-to-respond.html
Monetary stimulus deployed by
advanced countries to spur growth is unlikely to stoke inflation
as long as central banks remain free of outside influence to
react to challenges, according to a study by the  International
Monetary Fund .  In a chapter of its World Economic Outlook released today,
the Washington-based IMF said that inflation has become less
responsive to swings in  unemployment  than in the past. Inflation
expectations have also become less volatile, according to the
report.  “As long as inflation expectations remain firmly anchored,
fears about high inflation should not prevent monetary
authorities from pursuing highly  accommodative  monetary
policy,” IMF economists wrote in the chapter called “The dog
that didn’t bark: Has inflation been muzzled or was it just
sleeping?”  Borrowing costs in the largest developed economies are at
record lows. The  Bank of Japan (8301)  last week embarked on record
easing, meaning the four largest developed-market monetary
authorities -- including the U.S. Federal Reserve, the  European
Central Bank  and the  Bank of England  -- are aligned in their
commitments to spur growth and return their economies to full
strength.  The BOJ’s new policy “is something that we hope will lift
inflation durably into positive territory, which would help the
economy,” said Jorg Decressin, deputy director of the IMF’s
research department. “We see in no way the operational
independence of the BOJ compromised at all.”  Price Stability  Inflation stability during the global recession of 2009 may
have been due to an increase in structural unemployment, meaning
many job seekers didn’t have the skills to compete effectively
for positions and influence the wages of those employed,
according to the report. Another explanation is that central
banks have become more credible at delivering  price stability ,
according to the IMF.  In periods of growth as well, the correlation between
inflation and unemployment has weakened, according to the
report, which cites the euro region in the early 2000s.  “Emblematic cases are Ireland and  Spain ,” the IMF report
said. “Despite large reductions in unemployment fueled by
inappropriately loose monetary policies, inflation did not rise
nearly as much as the experience of the 1970s would suggest.”  Asset Bubbles  Still, restrained price increases in the early part of the
2000s didn’t prevent asset-price inflation, including housing
bubbles that contributed to the global financial crisis,
according to the report.  Using examples of the U.S. and  Germany  in the 1970s, the
IMF warned against threats of inflation coming from political
pressures on central banks. Limits on central banks’
independence and flexibility must be avoided, the IMF said.  “The dog did not bark because the combination of anchored
expectations and credible central banks has made inflation move
much more slowly than caricatures from the 1970s might suggest -
- inflation has been muzzled,” the IMF staff wrote. “And,
provided central banks remain free to respond appropriately, the
dog is likely to remain so.”  In a separate chapter also released today, the IMF reviewed
low-income countries that saw their economies take off since the
1990s and found that their increase is more sustainable than
similar experiences of previous decades.  That is reflected “in lower inflation, more competitive
exchange rates, and appreciably lower public and external debt
accumulation,” according to the chapter.  Such countries also have a lower regulatory burden, higher
education levels and greater political stability, according to
the fund.  Even so, “with their per-capita income level still a
fraction of that in advanced economies, they face a long journey
toward income convergence,” the IMF said. “Dynamic low-income
countries cannot afford to lose sight of the need to sustain the
pace of reforms, avoid major macroeconomic imbalances and
maintain external competitiveness.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  