-- Immofinanz to List Buwog Unit in Frankfurt After IPO
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   W e b e r
-- 2013-04-09T08:15:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/immofinanz-aims-to-list-buwog-unit-in-frankfurt-after-share-sale.html
Immofinanz AG (IIA)  plans to list its
residential unit in  Frankfurt  after an initial public offering
that could take place as soon as November, according to Daniel Riedl, a board member at the Austrian property developer.  The company would list Buwog as it seeks to add homes in
northern Germany to the unit’s holdings, board member Daniel Riedl told journalists yesterday after the market closed. He
declined to say which groups of homes Immofinanz is targeting.  “There have been successful initial public offerings
lately, like LEG,” Riedl said at a roadshow presentation aimed
at retail investors. “We’d like to be part of that.”  Immofinanz is trying to become a purely commercial real
estate company to increase rental yield. It plans to sell low-
yielding Austrian homes and use the proceeds to buy about 10,000
German apartments to add to Buwog before selling more than half
of the unit in the IPO. The company hopes to raise 700 million
euros ($910 million) to 750 million euros by selling the Buwog
stake, Chief Executive Officer Eduard Zehetner said.  “This would be a first step where we would give up our
majority stake,” which is necessary because investors don’t
like controlling shareholders, he said. “Afterwards, although
we’re not under time pressure, we’re thinking of a complete
exit.”  Apartment Deal  Immofinanz, based in Vienna, said yesterday it had sold 781
apartments in the Austrian province of Carinthia. The deal was
valued at about 40 million euros, Riedl said.  Immofinanz is trying to buy real estate in the Berlin area,
Schleswig-Holstein and Lower Saxony, Riedl said. The company is
seeking to complete the first transaction within weeks, he said.  The developer is also seeking to list its shares in Warsaw
to make it more visible and liquid, Chief Financial Officer
Birgit Noggler said at the event. That could happen as early as
this month, she added.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s Whitehall Street Real Estate
affiliate in January raised about 1.3 billion euros in an IPO of
LEG Immobilien AG, creating  Germany ’s largest landlord by market
value.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Weber in Vienna at 
 aweber45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mariajose Vera at 
 mvera1@bloomberg.net  