-- Indonesia Sells $3 Billion Debt at Lowest Rate in 2013 Debut
-- B y   Y u d i t h   H o   a n d   T a n y a   A n g e r e r
-- 2013-04-09T01:45:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/indonesia-sells-3-billion-debt-at-lowest-rate-in-2013-debut-1-.html
Indonesia  sold $3 billion of 10- and
30-year dollar bonds at record low borrowing costs, tapping the
global market for the first time this year, according to a
person familiar with the offering.  The nation issued $1.5 billion of notes due April 2023 to
yield 3.50 percent, its cheapest-ever financing for non-Islamic
bonds denominated in the U.S. currency, said the person, who
asked not to be identified because he’s not authorized to speak
publicly. Indonesia also sold $1.5 billion of debt maturing in
2043 to pay 4.75 percent. The 10-year securities yielded an
extra 1.76 percentage points over similar-maturity Treasuries,
while the 30-year spread was 1.84 percentage points.  The  average yield  on Indonesian sovereign bonds has fallen
19 basis points to 4.17 percent since climbing to an eight-month
high of 4.36 percent on March 28, according to JPMorgan Chase &
Co.’s EMBI Global indexes. The rupiah’s 6 percent drop versus
the dollar in the past year has been pushing up debt servicing
costs for the Southeast Asian nation, which plans to cut the
proportion of bonds sold in foreign currencies to 14 percent in
2013 from 21 percent last year, Robert Pakpahan, director
general at the debt management office in Jakarta, said Feb. 6.  “This year is the right time to issue global bonds before
global yields begin to rise in the coming years,” Herdi Wibowo,
the head of debt capital markets in Jakarta at PT BCA Sekuritas,
a unit of the nation’s largest lender by market value, said
before the offer. “The government is taking the opportunity to
sell as soon as possible due to prospects for a recovery in the
U.S., which will prompt global inflation to start picking up.”  Managing Sale  Investors  submitted  $12.5 billion of bids, according to a
statement on the debt management office’s website. Funds in the
U.S. and  Europe  were allocated 70 percent of the 10-year bonds
and 83 percent of the 30-year notes, while Indonesian investors
bought 13 percent of the 10-year debt and 4 percent of the
longer-dated securities, according to the statement.  PT Danareksa Sekuritas, JPMorgan, Deutsche Bank AG,
Standard Chartered Plc and PT Mandiri Sekuritas assisted with
the sale.  The 5.9 percent drop in the rupiah against the dollar in
2012 boosted debt servicing costs to 982 billion rupiah ($101
million), according to finance ministry data compiled by
Bloomberg. The average dollar  debt yield  for Asian borrowers was
3.52 percent, approaching October’s record low of 3.35 percent,
an HSBC Holdings Plc index shows.  Second Sale  Indonesia plans to tap the international market again in
the second half, Loto Srianita Ginting, director of  government
securities  at the debt management office, said April 3. The
government sold dollar-denominated debt three times last year,
with the most recent a November offer of $1 billion of 10-year
Islamic notes with a coupon of 3.3 percent. The yield on the
bonds has since climbed five basis points, or 0.05 percentage
point, to 3.35 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Indonesia’s dollar
notes rather than similar-maturity Treasuries has widened 40
basis points this year to 219, according to JPMorgan. Government
dollar bonds due 2042 have climbed over the past seven trading
days, cutting the yield 24 basis points to 4.59 percent.  The cost of insuring Indonesian debt using five-year
credit-default swaps fell six basis points to 158 basis points
last week, according to CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos.
and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market.  Split Rating  The  Bank of Japan (8301)  will double its monetary base by the end
of 2014 by buying  government bonds , the central bank said on
April 5, in the nation’s largest round of quantitative easing.  “The government is offering quite high yields to make sure
its first sale is a success, which will set the trend for the
rest of the year,” said Ezra Nazula, the Jakarta-based head of
fixed income at PT Manulife Asset Management Indonesia, which
oversees 25 trillion rupiah of debt. “The timing is good, with
all things considered, right after the recent announcement for
monetary easing by  Japan .”  Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings assigned the
bonds their lowest investment grade rankings, according to
statements yesterday. Standard & Poor’s rated the offer, part of
a $20 billion program, at the highest junk level, it said in a
note yesterday.  Fitch and Moody’s restored Indonesia to investment grade
more than a year ago. S&P has refrained from following them,
saying last April that the country was at risk from “policy
slippages” such as its failure to cut fuel subsidies.  The government is still looking at ways to trim the fuel-
subsidy bill. It is considering measures to limit usage, while
not ruling out price increases, Finance Minister  Agus Martowardojo  said in March.  Indonesia’s dollar-denominated debt has returned 7.9
percent in the past year, the fourth-worst performance among 11
Asian economies tracked by HSBC Holdings Plc indexes.  South
Korea , Malaysia and  Singapore  delivered lower returns, while
 Pakistan ’s 21 percent gain was the best performance.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yudith Ho in Jakarta at 
 yho35@bloomberg.net ;
Tanya Angerer in Singapore at 
 tangerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  