-- Indonesia Inflation Risks First Asian Rate Rise: Southeast Asia
-- B y   S h a r o n   C h e n   a n d   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g
-- 2013-04-09T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/indonesia-inflation-risks-first-asian-rate-rise-southeast-asia.html
Indonesia  may face more pressure
than other Asian nations to raise borrowing costs this year
after keeping its benchmark interest rate unchanged tomorrow, as
plans to cut fuel subsidies threaten to spur inflation.  All 16 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg expect the key
 reference rate  to stay at 5.75 percent tomorrow even after
consumer prices rose the most in 22 months in March. Bank
Indonesia will probably raise the 4 percent rate it pays lenders
on overnight deposits in the coming months before any increase
in the benchmark, according to  Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd. (ANZ) , Barclays Plc and Standard Chartered Plc.  President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono is due to announce
measures limiting energy subsidies within weeks as oil imports
deplete foreign-exchange reserves and weaken the rupiah. Any
move to raise gasoline and diesel prices or restrict the use of
partially government-funded fuel would add to inflation, in
contrast with countries from  China  to the Philippines where
easing cost pressures have reduced the need to tighten policy.  “The government’s plan to announce a new fuel subsidy
policy will feed into inflation expectations and a tightening
bias by Bank Indonesia,” said Daniel Wilson, a Singapore-based
economist at ANZ. The central bank “is probably under more
pressure to tighten than other economies because they do have
inflation starting to creep up and the external imbalance.”  Still Consistent  The rupiah has fallen about 6 percent in the past 12
months, the most after the yen and the Indian rupee in a basket
of 11 Asian currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The currency fell
for a seventh quarter in the three months through March in the
longest losing streak since 1998. The average yield on Indonesian sovereign
bonds has fallen 19 basis points to 4.17 percent since climbing to an eight-
month high of 4.36 percent on March 28, according to JPMorgan Chase &
Co.’s EMBI Global indexes.  Governor Darmin Nasution, whose term ends in May, said last
week the central bank “cannot avoid” raising borrowing costs
if needed. Inflation, which accelerated a faster-than-forecast
5.9 percent in March, may be 5.3 percent by the end of 2013
compared with an earlier estimate of about 4.9 percent, Perry
Warjiyo, executive director for monetary policy and economic
research at Bank Indonesia, said this week.  “If the government issues the new fuel policy in April, it
will cause higher inflation,” said Eric Alexander Sugandi, a
Jakarta-based economist at Standard Chartered. Food prices may
also rise this year due to bad weather and restrictions on
imports of agricultural projects, he said, adding that power
tariffs are being raised for a second time in April.  Indonesia spent 211.9 trillion rupiah ($22 billion) on fuel
subsidies last year, spurring demand for energy products that
contributed to a record  trade deficit  in October. Containing the
subsidy bill will be a key challenge for the successor to Agus Martowardojo, the current finance minister, who is set to
replace Nasution at the central bank.  Still Consistent  Yudhoyono will name a new finance minister within a month
from April 3, Julian Aldrin Pasha, the presidential spokesman,
has said.  The reference rate is still consistent with the central
bank’s target for inflation, unless the government unveils a new
policy to cut fuel subsidies, Warjiyo said. Borrowing costs
won’t increase because core inflation will remain stable at
about 4.2 percent and the acceleration in March was temporary,
he said, without giving a time frame for the rate to be held.  Southeast Asia’s biggest economy joined neighbors from the
Philippines to  Thailand  in easing monetary policy and boosting
government spending to bolster growth amid a global slowdown.
Bank Indonesia cut its reference rate by 100 basis points from
October 2011 through February 2012.  Relatively Strong  “Previously, their easing has been a lot more aggressive
than warranted because their growth was still relatively
strong,” said Wee-Khoon Chong, a rates strategist in Hong Kong
at Societe Generale SA. “Given the current situation in the
currency and also potential upside inflationary pressure, it
would make sense for them to unwind a little bit.”  Bank Indonesia raised the rate it pays lenders on overnight
deposits, known as the Fasbi, in August to 4 percent from 3.75
percent. While  gross domestic product  has risen above 6 percent
for the past nine quarters, the economy expanded in the three
months through December at the slowest pace in more than two
years as exports fell amid a decline in global commodity prices.  In contrast, the  Philippines ,  Malaysia  and Thailand
expanded more than economists estimated in the three months
through December. Philippine consumer prices rose 3.2 percent in
March from a year earlier, while in Thailand they gained 2.69
percent, slowing from 3.23 percent in February.  “It’s not easy for BI to raise the interest rate, but if
we have to then we cannot avoid it,” Nasution said on April 5.
The central bank will hold a meeting with lawmakers on
inflation, which has increased pressure on the rupiah and bonds,
he said.  Optimal Policy  The central bank targets price gains of 3.5 percent to 5.5
percent in 2013. Inflation may accelerate to 7.5 percent by the
end of the year if the government announces a 30 percent
increase in fuel prices, said Sugandi at Standard Chartered.  Delay of structural reforms, especially rationalization of
the energy subsidy regime, is a constraint in Indonesia’s
sovereign-credit quality, Standard & Poor’s said in a report
this month. The optimal policy is a combination of a fuel-price
increase and tighter restrictions on the use of subsidized fuel,
Bambang Brodjonegoro, head of fiscal policy at the Finance
Ministry, said in an April 3 interview.  Indonesia limited use of partially government-funded diesel
in January after protests derailed plans to raise prices in
2012. Elsewhere,  India  has curbed fuel subsidies to narrow a
current-account deficit as part of a policy revamp since
September.  A new type of fuel that can be sold at a higher price than
existing subsidized products is being considered, Martowardojo
said April 2. The government hasn’t yet decided whether to
restrict the use of subsidized fuel or increase its price,
Coordinating Minister for the Economy Hatta Rajasa said
yesterday. The new policy will be announced this month, he said.  A tightening bias by Bank Indonesia will help tame
expectations, ANZ’s Wilson said. Still, “the government
transition is one of the key reasons why they would probably
stay on hold” this month, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sharon Chen in Singapore at 
 schen462@bloomberg.net ;
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  