-- Indonesia Palm Exports Set for Biggest Drop in Two Years
-- B y   Y o g a   R u s m a n a   a n d   E k o   L i s t i y o r i n i
-- 2013-04-09T10:12:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/indonesia-palm-exports-set-for-biggest-drop-in-two-years.html
Palm oil shipments from  Indonesia 
probably slumped by the most in two years in March, slowing a
decline in inventories at the world’s largest producer, as
demand eased from China, the second-biggest buyer.  Sales plunged 19 percent to 1.65 million metric tons from
2.04 million tons a month earlier, according to the median of
estimates from four plantation company executives and one
analyst compiled by Bloomberg. That would be the steepest drop
since March 2011,  data  from the Indonesian Palm Oil Association,
or Gapki, show. Output fell 5 percent to 1.9 million tons, while
inventories dropped 1.7 percent to 2.95 million tons, according
to the median of estimates from three executives and one
analyst.  Falling shipments from Indonesia may curb the decline in
stockpiles, extending a 33 percent plunge in prices in Kuala
Lumpur in the past year. Reserves may drop to 2.3 million tons
this year from 2.5 million tons at the end of 2012, according to
Derom Bangun, chairman of the Indonesian Palm Oil Board. Exports
in February were the highest in at least five years, as  China 
boosted purchases, Gapki said April 4. Stockpiles probably fell
14 percent that month, a survey published Feb. 14 showed.  “High exports in the previous month was to fill demand for
the Chinese New Year,” said Hariyanto Wijaya, a Jakarta-based
analyst at PT Mandiri Sekuritas, referring to the festival that
fell in early February this year. “In March, purchases were not
as strong because most of the demand has been covered.”  Chinese Imports  Imports by China in the six months through September may
fall to 2.39 million tons, from 3.56 million tons in the six
months to March 31 and 2.68 million tons a year ago, Liu Xianwu,
general manager of China Cereals & Oils Business Net, the
country’s biggest independent oilseed researcher, said April 2.
Reserves at ports are near a record 1.46 million tons and will
remain above 1 million tons until at least July, Liu said.  Bangun said in a March 4 interview that he’s bullish on
palm, forecasting inventories in Indonesia to drop as an
increase in demand outstrips record output of 30 million tons.  “The key, going forward, is how Indonesia can maintain its
competitiveness with rising output,” said Wijaya.  The country may boost output by 5.7 percent to 28 million
tons this year, Gapki said Jan. 8. The growers’ group, which
doesn’t issue data on production and stockpiles, may release
March exports figures at the end of this month.  Reserves fell to 3 million tons in February from 3.5
million tons a month earlier, according to the Feb. 14 Bloomberg
survey. The January total was the highest figure since the
surveys began last year.  Stockpiles in  Malaysia  probably fell the most in more than
two years in March as exports from the world’s second-largest
producer increased for the first time in five months, according
to a Bloomberg survey published yesterday. The Malaysian Palm
Oil Board is scheduled to release the official data on April 10.  The forecasts for rising exports and declining reserves
sparked a rally on the Malaysia Derivatives Exchange. Palm oil
for June delivery fell 0.2 percent to close at 2,395 ringgit
($789) a ton today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoga Rusmana in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net ;
Eko Listiyorini in Jakarta at 
 elistiyorini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  