-- Iran Says Nuclear Plan Can’t Be Slowed as Facilities Open
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2013-04-09T10:34:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/iran-says-nuclear-plan-can-t-be-slowed-as-facilities-open.html
Iran , celebrating its annual
National Nuclear Technology Day amid pressure to curb its
program, said it opened a uranium processing facility in the
central Yazd province.  The complex is designed to process yellowcake -- uranium in
its raw form -- and is located in the city of Ardakan, state
television said. Named Shahid Rezainejad, it will produce about
60 tons of yellowcake annually,  Press TV  and other state media
reported. The country also started operations in the Saghand
mines, where it will extract uranium from a depth of 350 meters
(1,100 feet), according to the reports.  “Western nations want to have a monopoly on science and
technology, they didn’t want our nuclear technology to
flourish,” President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  said in today’s
ceremony at the  Atomic Energy Organization of Iran  in Tehran.
“You couldn’t stop us from developing the technology,” he
said. “Nobody will be able to put the brakes on Iran’s nuclear
progress.”  Today’s announcements do not constitute a technological
breakthrough as Iran is already producing uranium at its Gchine
mine in the south. The new projects come days after a round of
negotiations between Iran and six world powers in Kazakhstan
last week, which ended with the two sides still “far apart in
substance,” according to  Catherine Ashton , the European Union’s
foreign policy chief.  Military Threat  While Iranian officials say their country’s nuclear program
aims to advance energy production and medical research,  Israel 
and the U.S. say Iran may be trying to develop a nuclear weapons
capability, and have threatened military strikes to stop it. The
U.S. and European Union have imposed sanctions that cut Iran’s
oil exports and its access to foreign currencies, and warned of
tighter restrictions if there is no breakthrough in talks.  Iran started celebrating a national nuclear day after April
2006, when Ahmadinejad first said his nation had mastered the
full nuclear cycle and joined the “nuclear club” of countries
with the technology. During his two four-year terms, the Iranian
government has sought to turn  Iran’s nuclear program  into a
source of pride for the population and a symbol of independence
and resistance in the face of foreign pressure.  In the past seven years, Iran officially launched its first
nuclear power plant and has gone from enriching uranium from a
3.5 percent purity level to 20 percent, which it says it needs
to fuel a Tehran research reactor that produces medical
isotopes. Enriched uranium can be used to fuel a nuclear power
reactor, or it can be enriched further to a concentration of 90
percent to build nuclear weapons.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  