-- Iranian Nuclear Plant Is Safe After Earthquake, TV Says
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i   a n d   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 2013-04-09T16:01:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/iranian-nuclear-plant-is-safe-after-earthquake-tv-says.html
Iran ’s Bushehr nuclear power plant
is safe after a 6.1 earthquake struck near the facility today,
state-run Press TV reported.  Employees at the plant felt the tremors, a correspondent
for the news channel said. At least 30 people died and another
600 were injured when the quake hit the town of Kaki, near
Bushehr, the channel said. The 6.3 magnitude event struck 55
miles southeast of Bushehr port, the  U.S. Geological Survey 
reported on its website.  The Bushehr plant can withstand a 9 magnitude earthquake,
state-run Ria Novosti news service reported, citing an
unidentified official in a company that designed the nuclear
power plant, Iran’s first. Radiation levels at the facility are
normal, state nuclear company Rosatom Corp. said, citing its
staff in Iran.  While Iran isn’t member to the Convention on Nuclear
Safety, which subjects nuclear power operators to peer review by
other IAEA states, it does have obligations to report accidents.
The country ratified the Convention on  Early Notification  of a
 Nuclear Accident  in 2000 that “requires States to report the
accident’s time, location, radiation releases, and other data
essential for assessing the situation.”  Mahmoud Jafari, a project manager for the plant, said the
quake “didn’t create any complications,” according to the
official  Islamic Republic News Agency .  Fault Lines  Bushehr, Iran’s only functioning nuclear-power reactor, was
commissioned by Iran’s deposed Shah in 1975 and only began
producing electricity in September 2011.  According to the Iranian Seismological Center, the quake
hit at 4:22 p.m. local time and was followed by at least four
aftershocks, Press TV said. The shocks were also felt in Dubai,
on the other side of the  Persian Gulf , where buildings shook.  The country sits on several  fault lines  and is frequently
hit by earthquakes. An estimated 40,000 people were killed in
2003 when a temblor flattened the city of Bam in the southern
province of Kerman.  The quake came as the country’s leaders marked National
Nuclear Technology Day with announcements on a new uranium
processing facility.  “Nobody will be able to put the brakes on Iran’s nuclear
progress,” President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  said in a ceremony at
the  Atomic Energy Organization of Iran  in Tehran.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  