-- Irish Financial Watchdog Matthew Elderfield to Exit Central Bank
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n   a n d   D a r a   D o y l e
-- 2013-04-09T12:23:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/irish-financial-watchdog-matthew-elderfield-to-exit-central-bank.html
Irish Central Bank Deputy Governor
Matthew Elderfield, who presided over the overhaul of the
nation’s failed banking system, will depart in six months.  Elderfield, who joined the bank in 2010, will to return to
the U.K. to pursue other interests, the Dublin-based central
bank said in a statement today, without giving additional
details. The 47 year-old British national declined a request for
comment on his departure and future plans.  “Although it was always evident to me that we were very
likely to have Matthew with us for only a few years, it is sad
that this period is now drawing to a close,” Central Bank
Governor  Patrick Honohan  said in the statement. Elderfield, who
is paid an annual salary of 340,000 euros ($443,000) waived his
100,000-euro bonus entitlement at the end of his employment.  Along with Honohan, Elderfield oversaw the reconstruction
of the Irish financial system after the collapse of a real
estate bubble blew it apart. He led two rounds of stress tests
of the nation’s lenders, requiring taxpayers to commit as much
as 64 billion euros of capital to banks. On his watch, the state
took over five of the six biggest domestic lenders, which are
still grappling with the legacy of the crisis.  ‘Decent Stint’  “He is leaving the Irish banking system in a more stable
and better-regulated position, even though it still has
significant problems,” said  Dermot O’Leary , chief economist at
Dublin-based  Goodbody Stockbrokers . “I’m not overly surprised
that he’s leaving now, having done a decent stint over the last
three years.”  Some 25 percent of all Irish mortgages have been
restructured or were in arrears at the end of last year. Irish
 home prices  have halved since their peak in 2007, according to
the country’s  statistics office.   Honohan tapped Elderfield as head of financial supervision,
as holes in regulation were exposed by plunging property prices.
He had served as chief executive officer of the Bermuda Monetary
Authority between 2007 and 2009 and previously spent eight years
at the U.K.’s Financial Services Authority.  Elderfield also oversaw the administration of Quinn
Insurance Ltd., the insurance arm of the former cement-to-hotels
empire of  Sean Quinn , the nation’s one-time richest man. The
hole in Quinn Insurance’s book is estimated to be as much as
1.65 billion euros, according to the central bank.  “A lot of cleaning up has been done since he joined,”
said O’Leary at Goodbody. “They’re probably going to look in-
house for a replacement, to find someone who has inside
knowledge of the culture that’s been developed in the central
bank over the last few years.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joe Brennan  at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net ;
Dara Doyle in Dublin at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  