-- ISI’s Najarian Ends 21-Year Research Career to Marry, Golf
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2013-04-09T22:06:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/isi-s-najarian-ends-21-year-research-career-to-marry-golf-1-.html
Ed Najarian said he’s leaving
 International Strategy & Investment Group Inc.  and ending a 21-
year career analyzing banks to get married and play more golf.  “I always intended to take an extended break during the
middle of my life, and now I’m finally going to do that,”
Najarian wrote in an e-mail addressed to “friends and
colleagues.” “Next year, when I turn 50, I’ll be happily
focused on lowering my handicap, not grinding on banks.”  Before joining ISI in 2009, Najarian spent nine years at
Merrill Lynch & Co., now owned by Bank of America Corp., and
worked at Credit Suisse Group AG, UBS AG and First Union
Securities Inc., now part of  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , according to
 Financial Industry Regulatory Authority  records. In the note, he
thanked colleagues, clients and bank executives.  “Without your insights, successes and occasional missteps
there would be nothing to analyze,” Najarian wrote.  Najarian departs less than a year after  Guy Moszkowski ,
another veteran banking analyst, left Merrill Lynch to join
Autonomous Research LLP, a firm that follows U.S. and European
financial companies.  Najarian said he’ll consider becoming a money manager after
taking a break from the industry to marry Erika Penala, a bank
analyst at Merrill Lynch, and spend more time with his kids.  “My son goes to college in 2016,” he wrote. “Maybe I’ll
restart then.”  ‘I’m Available’  Najarian said in a phone interview that his handicap was
once as low as seven before his golf game deteriorated in recent
years. In his e-mail, he added that he’s ready to start playing
later this week.  “If anyone needs a fourth for Thursday morning at Shinny,
Winged Foot, or The Country Club, I’m available,” he wrote,
referring to  renowned  Northeast U.S. golf courses.  Najarian recommended buying  shares  of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,
Bank of America,  Citigroup Inc. (C) , and Wells Fargo, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. He had neutral ratings on  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Morgan Stanley (MS) , PNC Financial Services Group
Inc., BB&T Corp. and U.S. Bancorp, and a cautious recommendation
on  SunTrust Banks Inc. (STI)   ISI founder Ed Hyman and President Vinayak Singh “have
been working diligently to find my replacement,” Najarian
wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 