-- J.C. Penney Swaps Rise as Johnson Ousted; EADS Sells Dollar Debt
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2013-04-09T21:58:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/j-c-penney-swaps-rise-as-johnson-ousted-index-holds-near-low.html
Credit-default swaps tied to the
debt of  J.C. Penney (JCP)  Co. rose after the struggling department
store chain ousted  Ron Johnson  as its chief executive officer,
replacing him with his predecessor.  Five-year contracts linked to J.C. Penney increased 2.8
percentage points to 15.7 percent upfront at 4:09 p.m. in New
York, according to CMA, the data provider owned by McGraw-Hill
Cos. that compiles prices quoted by dealers. That means it would
cost $1.57 million initially and $500,000 annually to protect
$10 million of obligations.  The swaps dropped by 1.7 percentage points yesterday on
news that Johnson, 54, would be leaving the retailer, which had
a fourth-quarter  loss  of $552 million, its biggest since 2004.
The company will reinstate Myron E. Ullman III, 66, to run J.C.
Penney while it works to rebound from its worst sales year in
more than two decades.  “The board’s decision to make a leadership change by
bringing back the former CEO underscores the severity of the
operational issues at the company,”  Standard & Poor’s  analyst
David Kuntz said in a report today, adding that the transition
has no immediate impact on the company’s  ratings  or outlook.
“We expect first-quarter performance to be very weak, and that
Penney’s financial risk profile will remain ‘highly
leveraged.’”  The Plano, Texas-based chain on Feb. 27 reported annual
 revenue  dropped to $13 billion, the lowest since at least 1987.
Johnson alienated the company’s core customers by doing away
with sales and promotions and only recently began trying to win
them back by putting discounts front and center again.  Low Expectations  J.C. Penney shares plunged 12 percent to $13.93 today,
their lowest price in 12 years. The company was the  worst
performer  in the  S&P 500 Index. (SPX)   A gauge of U.S. corporate credit risk declined for a fourth
day, with the latest version of the measure poised for its
lowest close since traders started moving positions there on
March 20.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, fell 0.8
basis point to 84.7 basis points at 5:05 p.m. in New York,
according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  “When European risks increased last month, investment
grade underperformed,” Dominique Toublan, a credit strategist
at JPMorgan in New York, wrote today in an e-mail. “That has
now reversed.”  High Yield  The credit-swaps index typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index tightened 2.7 basis points to 413.1 basis points in
a fourth day of declines, Bloomberg prices show.  European Aeronautic Defence & Space Co. (EAD) , the maker of the
Airbus and Eurocopter, raised $1 billion of 10-year bonds in its
first U.S. sale in more than 13 years, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The company’s 2.7 percent debt yields 98 basis points more
than similar-maturity Treasuries, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The bonds were sold through its EADS Finance BV unit
and proceeds will be used for general corporate purposes.  EADS’s Air 2 US subsidiary sold dollar-denominated enhanced
equipment notes in October 1999, issuing securities due 2019 and
2020, Bloomberg data show. EADS was established in 2000 when the
German, French and Spanish partners in Airbus combined aerospace
assets.  The average relative yield on speculative-grade, or junk-
rated, debt added 2.2 basis points to 530.8 basis points,
Bloomberg data show. High-yield, high-risk debt is rated below
Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and less than BBB- at Standard
& Poor’s.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in  New York  at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  