-- J.C. Penney May Be Subject to Damages in Macy’s Suit
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-04-09T18:32:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/j-c-penney-may-be-subject-to-damages-in-macy-s-suit.html
J.C. Penney Co. (JCP)  may be subject to
damages if it’s selling Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia Inc.’s
plastic partyware in violation of a court order obtained by
Macy’s Inc., a New York state judge said today.  Macy’s, claiming the exclusive right to sell certain
categories of Martha Stewart-branded goods, sued J.C. Penney for
carrying some of the same merchandise. Macy’s this week sought
to renew a motion to enforce an injunction it obtained in July,
claiming that the partyware is in an exclusive category and that
stocking it at J.C. Penney stores violates the court order.  Macy’s yesterday accused J.C. Penney of selling products in
the exclusive categories on its website under the name “Martha
Stewart Celebrations,” including plastic champagne flutes, wine
glasses and pitchers, and asked  New York  State Supreme Court
Justice Jeffrey K. Oing in Manhattan to declare that the
products violate the injunction.  “I am not entirely sure that the defendants are taking
this as seriously as we are,” Michael A. Platt, an attorney at
 Jones Day  who is representing Macy’s, told the judge today
before putting two plastic pitchers on the bench to show their
similarities. “They should be pulled from the shelves.”  Damages Warning  Oing yesterday said he would allow attorneys for Plano,
Texas-based J.C. Penney and New York-based Martha Stewart Living
to look into the matter and would listen to oral arguments on
the issue on April 11.  He declined today to hear Cincinnati-based  Macy’s (M)  request
to argue for an order enforcing the injunction, saying he wants
Macy’s to finish its case first, while warning that J.C. Penney
may be subject to damages if he determines the objects fall
under his July sale ban.  “I’d like to still be considered holding the cards,” Oing
said. “My desire right now is for you to finish your case.”  The three sides returned to court yesterday to resume a
trial of Macy’s lawsuits following a monthlong break during
which mediation efforts ordered by Oing were unsuccessful.  The trial, which began Feb. 20, has featured testimony from
Martha Stewart, Macy’s Chairman Terry Lundgren and former J.C.
Penney Chief Executive Ron Johnson, who was ousted yesterday.  The trial resumed today without a mention of Johnson, whose
transformation plan for J.C. Penney revolved around a series of
shops-in-shops built around brands including those of Martha
Stewart and designer Michael Graves.  Stake Acquired  J.C. Penney in December 2011 acquired a 17 percent  stake  in
Martha Stewart Living for $38.5 million.  Macy’s, which has sold  Martha Stewart-branded (MSO)  home goods
since 2007, sued her company in January 2012, saying it had the
exclusive right to sell items in certain categories including
bedding and cookware. Macy’s sued J.C. Penney about three months
later.  Lawyers for Macy’s, the second-biggest U.S. department
store chain, have argued that J.C. Penney is trying to “reap
the rewards” of its work with the Martha Stewart brand, which
the chain says it rebuilt after Stewart’s release from prison in
2005, when her products were sold at Kmart.  Martha Stewart Living has defended its agreement with J.C.
Penney, accusing Macy’s of breach of contract and saying the
retailer stocked and priced Martha Stewart products in a manner
that favors private-label brands. Martha Stewart Living also
said Macy’s couldn’t have exercised a five-year renewal option
in January 2012 because of the breach.  The cases are Macy’s Inc. v. Martha Stewart Living
Omnimedia Inc., 650197/2012; Macy’s Inc. v. J.C. Penney Corp.,
652861/2012, New York State Supreme Court ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court
at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  