-- Japan to Have Surplus Power in Summer Without Additional Nuclear
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 2013-04-09T09:59:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/japan-to-have-surplus-power-in-summer-without-additional-nuclear.html
Japan  may have enough electricity
supply to meet peak demand this summer without the need to
restart idled nuclear reactors, a government report said.  Nine regional utilities will have 6.3 percent surplus
supply capacity on average in August, when demand peaks,
according to the report today that cites data submitted by the
companies.  Kansai Electric Power Co. (9503) , the utility most dependent
on nuclear power, is expected to have 3 percent excess capacity
in the three months ending September, the report said.  Japan, which got about 30 percent of its electricity from
nuclear power before the March 2011 Fukushima disaster, has 48
reactors lying idle. The nation restarted Kansai Electric’s two
units at the Ohi plant last July to avoid power shortages in
summer months. Reactors will have to pass new safety standards,
which will be set by the Nuclear Regulation Authority in July,
before being restarted.  The report assumed none of the idled 48 reactors will be
restarted before summer.  Tokyo Electric Power Co., which supplies electricity to
Japan’s most industrialized area, will have 6.7 percent surplus
capacity in August. Kyushu Electric Power Co.’s supply capacity
will be at least 3 percent above peak demand in summer, the
report said.  Surplus Guidelines  Utilities should have at least 3 percent surplus capacity
to deal with momentary demand spikes. It is “desirable” for
utilities to have excess capacity of between 7 percent and 8
percent in case of accidents at  power plants  and higher-than-
expected temperatures, according to government guidelines.  The Japanese government set summer power-saving targets in
areas supplied by seven of 10 regional utilities last May.
Households and companies in the Kansai region, Japan’s second
biggest metropolitan area, needed to cut power usage by more
than 15 percent, the government said at the time. The targets in
some areas were reduced after one of the Ohi reactors was
restarted in July.  The two reactors at the Ohi plant northeast of  Osaka  are
scheduled to shutdown for checks in September. Under Japanese
regulations, reactors have to undergo maintenance at least once
every 13 months.  The Nuclear Regulation Authority plans to allow  Kansai
Electric  to keep the two Ohi reactors in operation until the
scheduled September maintenance, Chairman Shunichi Tanaka said
March 19.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  