-- JC Flowers Sees U.S., U.K. Inflation Best Way to Reduce Debt
-- B y   J a s o n   K e l l y ,   M a h m o u d   K a s s e m   a n d   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2013-04-09T13:08:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/jc-flowers-says-inflation-best-way-for-u-s-u-k-to-reduce-debt.html
J.  Christopher Flowers , chairman and
chief executive officer of private equity firm JC Flowers & Co.,
said inflation is the best way to cut debt as central banks in
the biggest advanced economies push ahead with monetary easing.  “Let’s get the economies moving,” he said at the
Bloomberg Doha Conference today. “I am not saying what happened
in  Germany  in the 1920s. I am saying a modest amount -- a little
bit of inflation, which we really need to amortize debt.”  The  Bank of Japan  said last week it will double the
monetary base by the end of 2014 through purchases of  government
bonds , in an attempt to end two decades of stagnation by
increasing inflation to 2 percent. The move means the world’s
four biggest developed-market monetary authorities -- the BOJ,
the Fed, the  European Central Bank  and the  Bank of England  --are
aligned in their commitments to spur growth and return their
economies to full strength.  Japan ’s net debt soared from 81 percent of economic output
in 2006 to 113 percent in 2010 and may rise to 145 percent in
2013, according to International Monetary Fund data. The ratio
for both the U.S. and the U.K. is forecast to rise to 88 percent
from 84 percent last year.  U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  expanded
the Bank of England’s flexibility to reach the 2 percent
inflation target amid strains in the economy. Still, some
members of the central bank’s policy-setting body have raised
concern that more stimulus could undermine confidence in their
commitment to low inflation.  U.K. Inflation  U.K. consumer prices will rise 2.7 percent this year,
according to the median estimate in the latest Bloomberg survey
in March, while the economy may grow 0.9 percent.  “The U.K. has had no difficulty creating quite a lot of
inflation in recent years, it’s just that we haven’t had any
growth to accompany it,”  Stephen King , chief global economist
at HSBC Holdings Plc, said in an interview in Dubai yesterday.  For Japan, the question isn’t achieving the inflation
target “but rather, is it the right kind of inflation?” King
said. “If the yen continues to weaken, it is likely to improve
growth on the export side but at the same time the weaker yen
may drive up import prices, hence leading to higher price
inflation, but not higher wage inflation.”  The yen has weakened more than 12 percent this year.
Japan’s economic growth may slow to 1.2 percent this year from
2.05 percent in 2012, according to Bloomberg’s survey.  ‘Like a Rocket’  Japan was “very out of favor, which made it inexpensive,”
Flowers said. “That has changed in the last six months where
it’s taken off like a rocket.”  The  U.S. economy  is expected to grow 1.9 percent this year,
according to Bloomberg’s survey, while the euro area may shrink
0.2 percent. HSBC is forecasting a contraction of about 0.5
percent for the latter, King said.  Flowers said the euro area was lagging behind the U.S. in
taking action to revive economic growth and end a debt crisis
that has put the survival of the single currency in question.  “One future is that  Europe  manages to pull its socks up
and keep the euro going and get back to growth eventually, and
the other is that it doesn’t and things fall apart, the euro
comes apart,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Kelly in Doha at 
 jkelly14@bloomberg.net ;
Mahmoud Kassem in Doha at 
 mkassem1@bloomberg.net ;
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  