-- June Canadian Oil Contract Gains as Market Awaits Kearl Output
-- B y   E d w a r d   W e l s c h
-- 2013-04-09T19:00:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/june-canadian-oil-contract-gains-as-market-awaits-kearl-output.html
Canadian heavy oil for June delivery
strengthened on the  spot market  as traders speculated that first
delivery of supply from the Kearl oil-sands project may be
delayed until the third quarter.  Production from the  110,000 barrel a day Kearl project in
 Alberta  will “commence in the coming days,” Pius Rolheiser, a
spokesman for Exxon Mobil Corp.’s Calgary subsidiary  Imperial
Oil Ltd. (IMO) , said in an e-mail yesterday. Rolheiser also said April
1 that first production would come “in the next few days.”  Kearl oil could reach the market by June, since it will
take roughly two months from production to delivery, though that
date could slip, FirstEnergy Capital Corp. analyst  Michael Dunn 
said in a telephone interview from Calgary.  “Since first oil hasn’t yet occurred, there’s more chance
that could slip into July as days tick by,” Dunn said.  The price of Western Canada Select for June delivery
strengthened 50 cents to a $15.25-a-barrel discount to U.S. West
Texas Intermediate, according to Calgary oil broker Net Energy
Inc. The grade is a heavy blend that includes diluted oil-sands
bitumen.  When new production from Kearl arrives in the spot market,
it is expected to increase supplies and lower prices. Any delay
in production into July would help support prices in June, Dunn
said.  May Delivery  The front-month May contract for Western Canada Select
weakened 45 cents to a discount of $12.35 a barrel, Net Energy
said. The grade reached its strongest price relative to WTI in
six months on April 5, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  May WCS prices have strengthened amid a seasonal decline in
production from Alberta during the so-called spring breakup,
when warmer weather turns roads and drilling sites in remote
areas to mud, slowing production. The Canadian  oil rig  count
dropped by 30 to 117 last week, down from this year’s high of
509 during the week ended March 1, Houston oil field-services
company  Baker Hughes Inc. (BHI)  said April 5.  The price of Syncrude, a light oil produced from oil-sands
upgraders, strengthened by 20 cents to a $9.20 premium to WTI,
according to Net Energy data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Welsch in Calgary at 
 ewelsch1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  