-- Kansas Bondholders Showing No Aversion to Leverage: Muni Credit
-- B y   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n
-- 2013-04-09T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/kansas-bondholders-showing-no-aversion-to-leverage-muni-credit.html
Kansas , which dedicated casino
proceeds to pension relief last year, is considering another
gamble as lawmakers debate borrowing $1.5 billion to bolster the
nation’s 11th-weakest state retirement plan.  A state senate committee advanced a bill last week
authorizing the taxable municipal bonds as such debt is close to
the  strongest  since at least 1994, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Investors who don’t benefit from the tax exemption have
favored taxable munis for their extra yield.  As U.S. localities face retirement-funding gaps after the
18-month recession that ended in 2009, they are issuing pension
bonds at the fastest clip in five years. Led by Orange County,
California, sales have tallied about $280 million in 2013, after
about $1 billion worth last year, the most since 2008, Bloomberg
data show.  “If you’re going to sell pension bonds, now is as good of
a time as any to do it,” said Jean-Pierre Aubry, assistant
director of the Center for Retirement Research at Boston College
in Chestnut Hill,  Massachusetts . “But over the long haul you’re
still going to have to make more on investing the proceeds than
you pay in interest.”  Tax Hit  Kansas cut income taxes this year and first-term Republican
Governor Sam Brownback has pushed to eliminate the levy. It is
one of nine states prohibited by their constitutions from
issuing general-obligation bonds.  The bonding will go to the full state Senate when lawmakers
return May 8. The House approved the bill March 26. The measure
would turn part of a $9.2 billion unfunded liability into debt
with scheduled principal and interest payments. Kansas has
failed to make required pension contributions for more than 10
years, said Aubry. The funding ratio for its three systems,
which have 281,757 members, was 59 percent on Dec. 31, 2011,
according to the state’s financial report.  The issuance is a gamble that investment returns will move
as expected relative to borrowing costs, said Chris Mier,
managing director with Loop Capital Markets in  Chicago . Pension
bonds are taxable because proceeds are invested to earn a
profit, a practice that violates federal law with tax-exempt
debt.  No Denial  “I don’t think you can deny that there is a risk,” said
Mier. “Things don’t always work out the way you had hoped.”  Last year, cities from Fort Lauderdale,  Florida , to
Oakland, California, sold $980 million of the securities. That
was up from $670 million in 2011.  States’ unfunded public pension liabilities total $2.8
trillion, Alexandria, Virginia-based State Budget Solutions
reported in August. The group advocates changes in state
spending patterns to include lower taxes and prioritize areas
such as education and public safety.  U.S. state retirement plans had a median funding ratio of
about 72 percent in 2011, down from 74 percent the year before,
Bloomberg data show. More than 30 had less than 80 percent of
assets needed to meet obligations, leaving the plans below the
threshold considered sustainable.  Illinois , with a $97 billion
pension-system shortfall, sold the largest pension bond, a $10
billion issue in 2003.  Trodden Path  Kansas has been down this path before. The state sold $500
million of the bonds in 2004 when yields were higher. Proceeds
invested brought a return of 6.4 percent on a borrowing cost of
5.4 percent, for a gain of $320 million, according to data from
the Kansas Public Employees Retirement System.  Kansas expects to save $744 million through 2045 by
borrowing, Alan Conroy, executive director of the retirement
system, said in an e-mail. The system’s board “strongly
supports” improving pension plan funding, including issuing
debt, he said.  Under the  proposal  the House passed, the state would borrow
through the Kansas Development Finance Authority and the
borrowing cost authorized would be capped at 5 percent. The
estimated annual $86.3 million of debt service would be paid
from the state’s general fund, according to legislative
documents.  “The near historic low interest rates on bonds provide a
very favorable opportunity to realize market gains from
investments,” Conroy said in his statement.  Below Average  Yields on 30-year benchmark munis that are exempt from
taxes fell to a one-week low of 3.21 percent yesterday, compared
with an average of about 4 percent for a Bloomberg index that
started in January 2009.  Kansas is rated AA+ by Standard & Poor’s, the second-
highest level.  Investors get an  extra  0.39 percentage point on 10-year
taxable debt rated AA rather than similarly rated tax-free
securities, down from a gap of about one percentage point a year
ago, Bloomberg data show. The taxable munis also offer about 0.9
percentage point more than benchmark Treasuries.  Kansas’s 2004 pension bonds, which are insured, have traded
at a premium to face value, Bloomberg data show. Yields for
bonds maturing in May 2034 have ranged from 4.18 percent to 5.15
percent this year.  Investors generally get higher yields on pension bonds than
other taxable munis because there is a perception of greater
risk because payments on the pension debt are typically subject
to appropriation, said Gary Pollack, managing director with
Deutsche bank AG’s private-wealth unit in New York. He oversees
about $6 billion of munis.  Revenue Slide  Kansas faces reduced revenue starting this year because of
the income-tax cut and scheduled reductions in sales taxes,
according to a November 2012 report on  revenue estimates  from
the Kansas Legislative Research Department.  Last year, the only state that owns casinos was the first
to dedicate gambling receipts to retirement plans. The state
also made changes such as not guaranteeing specific benefits to
new state workers.  The governor “will carefully review and consider the bill
should the legislature vote to send it to him,” said his
spokeswoman, Sherriene Jones-Sontag.  Muni issuers are offering about $10.7 billion of debt this
week, the most since June, led by  California ’s $2 billion tax-
exempt deal and a $2 billion taxable Florida Hurricane
Catastrophe Fund Finance Corp. sale.  Local debt is the cheapest in close to seven months
relative to Treasuries. At  1.93 percent , yields on 10-year
benchmark munis compare with the  1.75 percent  interest rate on
Treasuries with a similar maturity, Bloomberg data show.  The ratio between the two yields, a measure of relative
value between the two asset classes, is about  110 percent , after
reaching the highest since August last week. The higher the
figure, the cheaper munis are compared with Treasuries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Darrell Preston in Dallas at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  