-- Kazakh Billionaire Said to Weigh Bid as State Sells Banks
-- B y   N a r i m a n   G i z i t d i n o v
-- 2013-04-09T15:07:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/kazakh-billionaire-said-to-consider-bid-for-alliance-temirbank.html
Kazakh billionaire Bulat Utemuratov
is looking at acquiring Alliance Bank and Temirbank as the
country’s government sells lenders it acquired in bailouts,
according to two people with knowledge of the matter.  The people didn’t give details of the possible deal and
asked not to be identified because the information isn’t public.
 Verny Investment Holding LLP , the Kazakh private-equity group
part-owned by Utemuratov, declined to comment. The lenders’
state-run parent, sovereign wealth fund Samruk-Kazyna, said in
an e-mail yesterday that it can’t disclose information about
potential investors because of a confidentiality agreement.  The central Asian nation, which holds about 3 percent of
the world’s oil and is the largest uranium supplier, is seeking
to shed assets after bailing out defaulted lenders in the
2007-2009 economic crisis and handing them to the wealth fund.  “Given the track record for foreign investors in Kazakh
banks, competition may be limited to local buyers,” Jason Hurwitz, an analyst at  Alfa Bank  in Moscow, said by phone. “It
will be hard to sell these banks without a discount to book
value.”  Debt Restructuring  Kazakh President  Nursultan Nazarbayev  has ordered the sale
of state stakes in the two lenders and  BTA Bank (BTA)  by the end of
this year. Alliance and Temirbank combined may be valued at
between $500 million and $1 billion, Alliance Chief Executive
Officer Maksat Kabashev told reporters on April 3.  BTA, Alliance and Temirbank restructured about $20 billion
in debt after defaulting in 2009. BTA overhauled its debt in
December for the second time since 2010.  Samruk-Kazyna has been considering a merger of Temirbank
and Alliance, the country’s eighth- and 13th-largest banks by
assets, and is open to offers from any buyer, including a local
investor, the fund’s deputy chief executive officer, Yelena Bakhmutova, said Feb. 7.  Utemuratov may “make sense” as a potential buyer because
of his history as a banker, Hurwitz said.  The purchase would mark the biggest foray into the
financial industry for Utemuratov since he sold ATF Bank to
 Italy ’s  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  for more than $2 billion in 2007,
producing a 4.9-fold return on Verny’s investment, according to
the company’s  website .  UniCredit Deal  UniCredit is selling ATF to a Kazakh investor,
KazNitrogenGaz, for a price equivalent to its equity capital
after gaining central bank permission, according to a statement
today from ATF. As of Jan. 1, its equity amounted to 71.2
billion tenge ($472 million).  Utemuratov, 55, controls  Forte Bank  and Kassa Nova Bank,
Kazakhstan’s 27th- and 29th-largest lenders, with total assets
at 80 billion tenge as of March 1, according to central bank
data.  Verny, based in the Kazakh capital, Astana, manages $4
billion of assets, spanning industries from oil and gas to
telecommunications in countries including Kazakhstan,
Kyrgyzstan, Russia and  Austria .  In February, Verny Chairman Timur Issatayev said his
company is waiting for details about plans to combine Alliance
and Temirbank and wants to know how each lender’s competitive
advantages are preserved before taking “any serious steps.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nariman Gizitdinov in Almaty at 
 ngizitdinov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  