-- Koruna Drops as Below-Target Inflation Fuels Intervention Talk
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-04-09T09:33:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/koruna-drops-as-below-target-inflation-fuels-intervention-talk.html
The koruna weakened as Czech
inflation stayed below the central bank’s target for a third
month, fueling speculation on whether policy makers will try to
stimulate the economy by weakening the currency.  The inflation rate was 1.7 percent, unchanged from February
and matching the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey,
statistical data showed today. The figures were “a bit on the
anti-inflationary side” without approaching deflation,  Martin Lobotka , a Prague-based analyst at Erste Group Bank AG’s Ceska
Sporitelna unit, wrote in an e-mailed report today.  “The central bank will thus remain calm, it will not do
any currency interventions unless the economy contracts at about
the rate it did in 2012 and/or the koruna strengthens below 25”
per euro, Lobotka wrote. Gross domestic product  shrank  1.4
percent in the fourth quarter from a year earlier.  The Czech currency depreciated 0.2 percent to 25.767 per
euro by 10:28 a.m. in Prague, extending its decline this year to
2.6 percent. Yields on the country’s three-year bonds rose four
basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 0.421 percent.  The Ceska Narodni Banka in  Prague , which cut borrowing
costs three times to 0.05 percent last year, has debated
publicly and in private whether to engage in currency
interventions amid a record-long recession.  The more “the central bank has to correct its inflation
expectations downwards, the more likely direct currency-market
interventions in the second half of 2013 are becoming,” Carolin Hecht, a Frankfurt-based strategist at Commerzbank AG, wrote in
an e-mailed report before the inflation figures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  