-- N. Korea Threats Boost First BOK Rate Cut Odds Since October
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o   a n d   C y n t h i a   K i m
-- 2013-04-10T00:58:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/n-korea-threats-boost-odds-of-first-bok-rate-cut-since-october.html
North Korea ’s threats are raising
the odds of the first  interest-rate cut  by its southern neighbor
since October as they threaten to damp business and consumer
sentiment in  Asia ’s fourth-largest economy.  Warnings of missile strikes and nuclear tests by Kim Jong Un’s regime have helped send  South Korea ’s main stock-market
index down 4.2 percent this month while the won has declined 2.5
percent against the dollar. Eleven of 20 economists forecast the
Bank of Korea will reduce borrowing costs tomorrow, according to
a Bloomberg News survey.  The war threats weigh on central bank Governor Kim Choong Soo as new President Park Geun Hye’s government pressures him to
lower borrowing costs and Japan embarks on record easing that
may weaken South Korean export gains. Bond yields are also
signaling a rate reduction and have fallen to record lows after
the Finance Ministry cut its 2013 forecast for economic growth.  “The central bank may come forward with more aggressive
action before investors and consumers lose confidence,” said
Lee Jae Hyung, a fixed-income analyst at  Tongyang Securities
Inc. (003470)  in  Seoul . “Geopolitical tension” is adding to pressure on
the Bank of Korea from the government for an interest-rate cut
as the won and stocks slide, Lee said.  The Bank of Korea’s decision is due tomorrow at 10 a.m. in
Seoul. A quarter percentage-point reduction would be the third
such cut in nine months and bring the benchmark seven-day
repurchase rate to 2.5 percent, the lowest level since January
2011.  Crisis Atmosphere  North Korea’s effect on financial markets is getting more
intense, the South’s Finance Ministry said in a statement today.
It said it will submit a stimulus proposal to lawmakers next
week in hopes of getting their approval by the end of the month.
The extra money will be used to ensure  price stability , promote
startups and support the  property market , it said. The size of
the supplementary budget hasn’t been set yet, it said.  The threats by Kim Jong Un’s regime to carry out nuclear
strikes against the U.S. and South Korea have fueled a crisis
atmosphere in the region and prompted calls for dialogue. The
South Korean government said North Korea may be ready to conduct
a nuclear test or missile launch as early as this week.
Yesterday, North Korea warned all foreigners in South Korea to
prepare evacuation plans in case of war.  Industrial Complex  North Koreans employed at the joint Korean industrial
complex in the border city of Gaeseong didn’t report for work
yesterday, severing the last exchange link between the two
countries. South Korean companies employ more than 53,000 North
Korean workers at Gaeseong.  The yield on the benchmark three-year government bond
traded at 2.49 percent yesterday, down 17 basis points from a
month ago, according to Korea Financial Investment Association
data. The yield, which touched a record low of 2.44 percent on
April 5, has traded below the 2.75 percent policy rate since
Feb. 5. The  Finance Ministry  on March 28 lowered its 2013
economic-expansion forecast to 2.3 percent from December’s 3
percent, below the central bank’s 2.8 percent projection.  “The  bond market  has already priced in a 0.25 percentage
point cut,” said Lee Jae Seung, a fixed-income analyst at KB
Investment & Securities Co. in Seoul. “The escalating threats
from North Korea and their actions over Gaeseong are helping to
justify a BOK rate-cut decision.”  Central Bankers  South Korea’s political leadership has put pressure on
central bankers ahead of tomorrow’s announcement. Cho Won Dong,
chief economic adviser to Park, said last week that “it will be
better” if the Bank of Korea lowers interest rates given that
the government may need to issue bonds. Lee Hahn Koo, floor
leader of the ruling New Frontier Party, on April 1 urged the
central bank to consider stimulus measures such as a rate cut.  Nomura Holdings Inc. sees a 45 percent chance that the  Bank
of Korea  “succumbs to political pressure and cuts rates,” Kwon Young Sun, a Hong Kong-based economist, said in an April 8
report, raising his previous estimate of a 40 percent
probability. “This would imply that the government now has de
facto control over monetary policy and therefore further rate
cuts would be possible.”  South Korea’s government plans this month to unveil fiscal
stimulus, including an extra budget, to boost the economy. The
Finance Ministry in a report yesterday cited geopolitical risks
related to North Korea as growth concerns in addition to
 Europe ’s debt crisis. The ministry also said consumption and
investment remain weak.  Inaugural Speech  Finance Minister Hyun Oh Seok in his March 22 inaugural
speech vowed to use “all possible policy measures” to boost an
economy that’s grown less than 1 percent from quarter to quarter
for seven periods. A weakening yen is a “problem” that is
flashing a red light for exports, Hyun said March 23.  The economy expanded 2 percent last year, the least since
the global financial crisis, compared with a potential-growth
rate of 3.8 percent estimated by Kim, the central bank governor.
Consumer inflation has remained below the Bank of  Korea ’s target
range of 2.5 percent to 3.5 percent so far this year, with
prices rising 1.3 percent in March from a year earlier, the
slowest rate in seven months.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net ;
Cynthia Kim in Seoul at 
 ckim170@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Scott Lanman at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net  