-- Nabiullina Says 3%-4% Inflation Key Goal for Bank Rossii
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e   a n d   O l g a   T a n a s
-- 2013-04-09T11:44:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/nabiullina-says-3-4-inflation-key-goal-for-bank-rossii.html
Reining in consumer-price growth
should remain the Russian central bank’s most important goal as
it will help stimulate investment, said  Elvira Nabiullina ,
President  Vladimir Putin ’s candidate to head the regulator.  “Low inflation is a necessary condition to protect
deposits and the motivation to invest in projects with long
break-even periods,” Nabiullina, Putin’s aide and a former
economy minister, told lawmakers in Moscow today. “For that
reason, the gradual reduction of inflation to 3 percent to 4
percent should be the main task of monetary policy.”  Russia, the largest emerging-market economy to raise
 interest rates  last year, took a first step toward easing
borrowing costs by reducing some lesser-used interest rates this
month. The decision, two months before Chairman Sergey Ignatiev’s final term ends in June, followed calls from the
government to do more to stimulate the economy even as inflation
remains more than a percentage point above the 6 percent top end
of the regulator’s target range.  Keeping the pace of price growth between 5 percent and 6
percent this year and at 4 percent to 5 percent in the next two
years is a reasonable goal, according to Nabiullina. Bank Rossii
shouldn’t try to cut inflation faster because “it means putting
economic growth at risk,” she said.  The ruble gained 0.3 percent to 31.12 per dollar by 3 p.m.
in Moscow, its strongest in a week.  Russia ’s economy grew 2.1 percent in the fourth quarter
from a year earlier, the slowest pace since a contraction in
2009. Economy Minister Andrei Belousov said the pace of growth
for 2013 was unlikely to exceed 3.2 percent.  Maneuvering Room  Russia has “room to maneuver” in terms of easing rates,
with the main short-term repurchase rates at 5.5 percent,
whereas many other countries have expended all room for cuts,
Nabiullina said. Still, that would require slowing growth,
higher unemployment and should be made based on a full analysis
of the situation, she said.  The comments echo remarks by Ignatiev, 65, whom Nabiullina
asked to stay on at the bank as an adviser. He told reporters
last week that the central bank considers a number of
macroeconomic indicators as well as the  exchange rate  and
government policy when deciding on rates.  Russia should continue moving toward a flexible exchange
rate, which Nabiullina said has benefited business more than
“artificial steps” to weaken the ruble. Bank Rossii has
gradually widened the range in which the currency trades against
a basket of dollars and euros as it moves toward inflation
targeting.  Non-Monetary Factors  She also cautioned that the central bank, while focused on
inflation, can’t control it fully because of factors including
prices set by the government for natural monopolies. Non-
monetary factors may account for as much as half of inflation in
Russia, she said.  “I’m far from the position that inflation can be driven
down exclusively through monetary methods,” she said,
reiterating that the central bank and the government needed to
coordinate policy for the best outcomes in terms of growth and
inflation.  Alexander Zhukov, first deputy chairman of the lower house
of parliament, said Nabiullina’s time as economy minister had
won her respect abroad as well as contacts with bankers, which
will help her in the new role.  He said the ruling United Russia party, which together with
allies controls more than half the votes in the State Duma,
would back her at today’s confirmation vote at 5 p.m. in Moscow.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net ;
Olga Tanas in Moscow at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  