-- Nashville’s Orchestra Maneuvers to Restructure Debt After Flood
-- B y   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 2013-04-09T15:34:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/nashville-s-orchestra-maneuvers-to-restructure-debt-after-flood.html
The  Nashville Symphony , facing a 60
percent decline in donations and $40 million in flood damage to
its concert hall, is in talks with  Bank of America Corp.  to
restructure debt issued to build the facility.  The symphony drew on a  credit line  from the bank last week
to buy back $82.3 million of floating-rate bonds from a $102
million financing of the Schermerhorn Symphony Center in 2004,
said two people familiar with the matter who asked for anonymity
because they weren’t authorized to speak publicly. Forcing Bank
of America to put up cash to fund the mandatory buyback will
lend a sense of urgency to the negotiations, the orchestra
said in a  letter  posted on its website  “Our preferred course of action is to reach an agreement
out of court,” the letter said. “That said, the board
understands and accepts its responsibility to act as necessary
to protect the assets of the symphony.”  The Tennessee capital is the latest U.S. city with an
orchestra in financial turmoil as audiences decline and a  new
generation of donors  gives less money to cultural institutions.
Orchestras in Philadelphia, Honolulu and Louisville,  Kentucky ,
filed for  bankruptcy protection  after the 2008 financial crisis,
while the Delaware Symphony Orchestra in Wilmington reorganized
outside of court.  Gifts to the Nashville Symphony declined to $14.7 million
for the tax year ending July 31, 2011, from a high of $39.1
million in the year ending July 31, 2008, according to the
nonprofit’s most recent U.S. tax filing. The value of its
publicly traded investments dropped by about $22 million for the
year ending July 31, 2011, to about $47 million.  Whittling Down  The symphony lost a combined $40 million in the 2009 and
2010 tax years. It made $12 million in the year ending July 31,
2011.  “Most orchestras don’t break even, and they whittle down
their endowment little by little,” said Ted Gavin, a founding
partner of the Wilmington, Delaware-based restructuring firm
Gavin/Solmonese LLC, who has advised cultural institutions.
“The draw from the credit line could easily be explained as
being having to meet  cash flow  because they don’t have donations
readily available to meet operating expenses.”  Typically, an organization can use only a percentage of
their endowment for annual operating expenses, he said.  Nashville Flood  Construction of the  Schermerhorn Symphony Center , which is
across the street from the Country  Music Hall  of Fame, was
completed in 2006. Built in a neoclassical style, the 1,844-seat
hall, the orchestra’s main venue, can be transformed from
concert-style seating to a hardwood ballroom floor for pop and
jazz concerts, or events such as weddings. A motorized system
lowers rows of seats into a special storage space below the
surface of the ballroom floor.  On two consecutive days in May 2010, more than 13 inches of
rain fell in Nashville, shattering the previous  record . On May
3, the Cumberland River crested at 51.86 feet, almost 12 feet
(3.7 meters) above flood stage.  At the height of flooding, 24 feet of water filled the
Schermerhorn Center, submerging the lower level and damaging
mechanical and electrical equipment, grand pianos and a concert
organ.  Investors who tendered their symphony bonds on April 1
received all of the principal and accrued interest. BlackRock
Inc., the world’s biggest asset manager, owned $11.4 million of
the debt, according to Jim Schwartz, BlackRock’s head of
municipal credit research.  Credit Line  The credit line is secured by the symphony’s cash,
investments and concert hall, according to a reimbursement
agreement filed on the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board
website.  The symphony’s decision not to renew the credit line, which
was to expire April 30, means it can’t take advantage of the
short-term interest rates near zero. Rates on its floating-rate
bonds were 0.15 percent the week of March 28, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Laurie Davis, a spokeswoman for the symphony, declined to
comment beyond the March open letter to patrons, citing the
negotiations.  Shirley Norton , a Bank of America spokeswoman,
declined to comment.  Evelyn Mitchell , a spokeswoman for  Regions
Financial Corp. (RF) , trustee for the bondholders, confirmed that the
symphony’s bonds were subject to repurchase on April 1. She
declined further comment.  Nashville,  Chicago , Cincinnati,  Rhode Island , and Baltimore
are among orchestras that have tax-exempt debt, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Last Resort  Nashville’s symphony issued $102 million of floating-rate
bonds in 2004 to finance the 197,000-square-foot hall. The
municipal government contributed $20 million to the project.  The variable-rate bonds, issued through the Industrial
Development Board, were long-term securities offering short-term
interest rates because investors could demand their money on
short notice and turn the bonds in for sale to another buyer.  To assure investors there would be a buyer of last resort
if investors wanted to sell the bonds, the symphony paid Bank of
America for a letter of credit.  In 2004, the price of the Nashville symphony’s letter of
credit was 0.75 percentage point per year, according to a copy
of the agreement posted on the MSRB website. The  interest rate 
the orchestra is paying now couldn’t be determined.  Prices for bank letters of credit have increased after the
financial crisis, as banks that provided guarantees sought to
conserve capital and reduce risk.  Interest payments of the symphony’s debt totaled about $5.5
million for the year ending July 30, 2011.  Attorney Bob Tuke of Trauger & Tuke, who represents the
Metropolitan Government of Nashville and the Davidson County
Industrial Development Board, said he’d be surprised if the
symphony filed for bankruptcy.  “It would surprise me if people who put so much of their
personal capital in as well as their emotion would let it
fail,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Martin Z. Braun in  New York  at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  