-- Natural Gas Resources Seen at Record in U.S. on Fracking
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2013-04-09T18:05:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/natural-gas-resources-seen-at-record-in-u-s-on-fracking.html
The U.S. has 2,384 trillion cubic
feet of recoverable natural gas according to an industry
estimate, twice what a similar study concluded nine years ago as
drillers began tapping shale formations using a technique known
as hydraulic fracturing.  The estimate is the highest in the 48 years the  Potential
Gas Committee  has assessed resources and exceeds by more than 25
percent the previous estimate of two years ago, the panel said
today in its latest nationwide analysis. Much of the growth in
estimated underground assets came in eastern states such as
Pennsylvania, where shale-gas has been opened up by companies
such as  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  and  Range Resources Corp. (RRC)  using
hydraulic fracturing, also known as fracking.  “It’s really shale gas that has exceeded expectations,”
John Curtis, a professor at the  Colorado  School of Mines who led
the study, said in  Washington . “Our present assessment,
strengthened by robust domestic production levels, demonstrates
the exceptionally strong and optimistic gas supply picture.”  Fracking, in which water, sand and chemicals are shot
underground to break apart rock and free natural gas trapped in
shale, has brought a boom in energy production to Pennsylvania,
Texas and Colorado, and lowered natural gas prices.  Gas Prices  Natural gas for May delivery fell 7.1 cents, or 1.7
percent, to $4.01 per million British thermal units at 2:03 p.m.
on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Natural gas will probably
drop 10 percent before July and will stay in a price range of
$3.50 to $4.50 per million Btu this year as supplies remain
“robust,”  James Sullivan , an analyst at Alembic Global
Advisors in  New York , said in a note to clients today.  Fracking has also raised concerns of environmentalists and
some landowners, who say its leading to contaminated air and
water. Overall, 45 percent of those familiar with hydraulic
fracturing say they support its use, while while 41 percent
oppose the practice,  according to  the University of Texas Energy
Poll, which was released today. A growing share of consumers, 43
percent, said they support greater regulation of the practice.  Gas production in the U.S. rose to an all-time high of 28.5
trillion cubic feet in 2011, led by record output from shale
deposits,  according  to the Energy Information Administration.
Shale accounted for 30 percent of total production in 2011, up
from 22 percent the previous year.  If production stayed at that level, U.S. resources of
natural gas could last for nearly a century if the current
estimate is correct. The committee doesn’t include a time frame
for when or if this natural gas would be tapped.  A third of the total gas resources are in Eastern states
such as  Pennsylvania  and  Ohio , and almost half the total
resources nationwide are in  shale formations , according to the
industry committee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  