-- Navistar Sued by Pension Fund Over Engine Statement
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-04-10T01:00:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/navistar-sued-by-pension-fund-over-engine-statement.html
Navistar International Corp. (NAV) , an
Illinois truck maker, was sued by investors who claimed
executives made misleading statements about its ability to build
engines that complied with U.S. emissions standards.  Former Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Daniel Ustian
and current Chief Financial Officer Andrew Cederoth made the
statements to conceal the company’s difficulty in perfecting an
engine that burns off pollutants internally, the Norfolk County
Retirement System of  Massachusetts  said in a complaint filed
today in federal court in Chicago.  The so-called Exhaust Gas Recirculation engine was needed
to meet U.S. Environmental Protection Agency standards for 2010
model trucks, according to the complaint.  Ustian “repeatedly stated that Navistar had indeed
achieved an engineering milestone and had an EPA-compliant EGR
engine ready to be certified,” according to the complaint. “In
fact, the EGR technology was not -- and would never be -- able
to meet EPA requirements.”  Navistar, based in Lisle,  Illinois , resorted to paying a
non-compliance fine for each engine it sold, a practice
disallowed by a U.S. appeals court last year, and by employing
the same selective catalytic reduction or SCR technology used by
other truck makers, which relies on the treatment of exhaust
with a urea-based chemical after it leaves the engine, the
 pension plan  alleged.  Shares Plunged  Announced delays in the company’s ability to develop a
compliant engine caused shares to fall 15 percent to $24.42 at
the close of trading on July 6, their biggest plunge since 2008.
Ustian announced his retirement as chairman and CEO in August
after an announcement that Navistar was being investigated by
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Navistar fell 9 cents to $32.45 today in  New York  Stock
Exchange composite  trading . The shares have declined 14 percent
in the past 12 months. The shares traded for as much as $70.17
in April 2011 because of the earlier false statements, the
10,000-member Norfolk County Retirement System claimed.  The pension plan seeks to proceed on behalf of investors
that acquired Navistar shares between June 9, 2010, and Aug. 1,
2012, and an award of unspecified money damages.  “As a matter of policy, Navistar does not comment on
pending litigation,” Steve Schrier, a spokesman for the
company, said today in an e-mailed statement.  The case is Norfolk County Retirement System v. Navistar
International Corp., 13-cv-02639, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Illinois ( Chicago ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at
   aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  