-- Fed Says Bond Purchases Didn’t Disrupt Markets in 2012
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2013-04-09T18:05:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/new-york-fed-says-asset-programs-did-not-disrupt-markets-in-2012.html
The  Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
said the Fed’s asset purchase programs, including the $667
billion Operation Twist and $40 billion in monthly mortgage bond
purchases, didn’t disrupt financial markets last year.  The central bank’s open market desk “closely monitored
market conditions; its activity did not have significant adverse
effects on market functioning,” the New York Fed said in an
annual report on the System Open Market Account portfolio
released today. The New York Fed executes monetary policy by
buying and selling bonds in the account.  The Fed’s balance sheet has climbed to a record $3.2
trillion, prompting central bank officials to monitor markets to
ensure asset purchases don’t impair other transactions. The
 Federal Open Market Committee  is assessing the risks and
benefits of bond buying, with Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  saying on
Feb. 27 he saw no “significant problems” in markets from $85
billion in monthly purchases.  “We really have some of the best functioning financial
markets since the crisis,” said Thomas Simons, money market
economist in New York at Jefferies LLC, a primary dealer that
trades directly with the Fed. “Even though the Fed has absorbed
a tremendous amount of Treasuries and MBS, I don’t see any
evidence they’re having a negative effect on market function.”  The FOMC said last month it plans to continue the purchases
until the labor market improves “substantially.” Last week’s
Labor Department report showing the economy generated 88,000
jobs in March, the fewest in nine months, highlights that
officials haven’t reached their objective, Simons said.  ‘Falling Short’  “Clearly the Fed’s falling short of achieving its goal on
the employment side,” he said. Smooth market functioning and a
labor market weakness is “going to allow them to continue down
the path on the current policy, to continue purchases.”  Today’s New York Fed report covers the year 2012, during
which the central bank concluded its Operation Twist program in
which it swapped about $45 billion a month of short-term
 Treasury securities  for longer-term government debt, in an
effort to lower interest rates. In September,  the Fed  began
purchasing $40 billion a month of mortgage-backed securities, to
further support the housing market.  “Common metrics of market functioning suggested that the
Desk’s MBS purchase operations did not have any significant
adverse effects on the MBS market in 2012,” the Fed said in the
annual report. “Trading volumes remained near longer-term
averages, while settlement fails in the agency MBS market
declined to, and then remained near, multiyear lows.”  Some Metrics  New York Fed President William C. Dudley said in a March 25
speech that “market functioning has actually improved in recent
months” by some metrics.  “Of course, we will need to continue to monitor this,
particularly if a rise in  interest rates  leads to less MBS
issuance,” he said. “But so far, so good.”  The yield on the 10-year Treasury note traded below 2
percent for the third straight week as Bernanke signaled in a
speech yesterday that there was room for improvement in the
economy, spurring bets the central bank will maintain asset
purchases. Benchmark 10-year Treasury note yields were 1.74
percent at 1:44 p.m., down 0.06 percentage point.  The report primarily summarizes the asset-purchase programs
and documents how they’ve changed the composition of the Fed’s
portfolio. The securities portfolio run by the New York Fed
comprises the bulk of the central bank’s balance sheet. At the
end of 2012, the portfolio stood at $2.8 trillion.  Primary Dealers  The  New York  Fed said that, based on its survey of primary
dealers, the asset portfolio will reach a peak of $3.9 trillion
in 2014. The portfolio will begin “declining steadily for more
than four years” in 2015, as the Fed sells securities or allows
them to mature and roll-off.  The report also included an analysis of whether the Fed
will continue to earn large profits that it then returns to the
Treasury. Previous Fed research has shown that those profits
could disappear as interest rates rise.  The report said in some scenarios income could disappear.
“A temporary reduction in income, which could prompt a halt to
remittances to the Treasury, would not affect the Desk’s
capacity to conduct open market operations or the FOMC’s ability
to manage short-term interest rates,” the Fed said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in New York at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  