-- New Zealand House Prices Increase at Fastest Pace Since 2008
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2013-04-09T00:44:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/new-zealand-house-prices-increase-at-fastest-pace-since-2008.html
New Zealand  house prices rose at the
fastest pace since 2008 in March as the central bank warns that
a housing boom would trigger interest rate increases.  Prices rose 6.5 from a year earlier, Quotable Value New
Zealand, a government-owned property research company, said in
an e-mailed statement. There hasn’t been a bigger increase since
the 12 months ended February 2008.  “The number of properties on the market remains limited,”
Jonno Ingerson, research manager at Quotable Value, said in the
statement. While the rate of increase in prices is slowing in
some cities “it is still too early to tell if this is the start
of a more widespread slowing,” he said.  Central bank Governor Graeme Wheeler said March 14 that he
expected to keep borrowing costs unchanged this year. His deputy
Grant Spencer yesterday said the stance may change were rising
property demand to stoke a damaging housing boom.  “If the house price and credit expansion begins to fuel
excessive consumption spending and inflationary pressures, a
monetary policy response would become more likely,” Spencer
said in a speech to business leaders in Auckland. “The  Reserve
Bank ’s flat interest rate outlook in our recent monetary policy
statement would need to be revisited.”  The central bank has kept the  official cash rate  at a
record-low 2.5 percent since March 2011 to help the economy
recover from devastating earthquakes, and a global slowdown that
curbed exports. Wheeler is reluctant to raise borrowing costs
because the nation’s currency is rising and a drought may slow
growth this year, he said last month.  Stronger Currency  New Zealand’s dollar has gained 2.3 percent against the
U.S. currency this year, the best-performing Group of 10
currency. The trade weighted currency index is at its highest
since the dollar began freely trading in March 1985.  The currency rose to 84.82 U.S. cents at 12:12 p.m. in
Wellington from 84.70 cents before the statement.  Wheeler is also considering prudential tools such as
raising home-buyers’ minimum deposits and tightening
restrictions on bank balance sheets to ward off a property
bubble. The central bank is seeking feedback from lenders and
wants to have an agreement in place with the Finance Minister by
mid year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  