-- NFL Can’t Claim Concussion Suit Immunity, Lawyer Says
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2013-04-09T20:48:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/nfl-can-t-claim-immunity-from-concussion-suits-lawyer-says-1-.html
The National Football League can’t
claim immunity from lawsuits brought by thousands of former
players over concussions they say they sustained on the field,
one of their lawyers told a federal judge.  The league has established itself as the “guarantor of
player safety” since the 1920s and can’t now hide behind
collective bargaining agreements to shirk its duty of care,
David Frederick, an attorney for ex-football players, told U.S.
District Judge Anita Brody today in Philadelphia federal court.  “When the NFL began to monetize and glorify violence on
the field, it breached its duty of due care,” Frederick said.
“It can’t claim immunity simply because clubs have a
contractual relationship with a players union.”  The NFL is seeking to have the suits dismissed, saying the
claims are a matter of workplace safety governed by contracts
with the league’s union and its 32 member clubs. Paul Clement, a
lawyer for the NFL, said the players’ association and the teams
share responsibility for player safety with the league.  “You can’t think of the league’s responsibility in a
vacuum,” Clement said. “The league can’t unilaterally change
rules without participation from the clubs, players and the
union.”  4,000 Players  More than 4,000 former NFL players have sued the league
seeking damages for head injuries. The complaints, which are
consolidated before Brody in Philadelphia, accuse the league of
negligence and failing to inform players of the link between
repeated traumatic head impacts and long-term brain injuries.  The players claim the NFL knew as early as the 1970s about
the increased risk of repetitive head injuries and allegedly
took no substantial steps to address the issue until 1994. It
later sought to suppress medical literature showing a link
between head injuries and post-career brain damage.  Autopsies of Junior Seau, who was an All-Pro San Diego
Chargers linebacker, and two other former players showed they
suffered from a progressive brain disease known as chronic
traumatic encephalopathy before committing suicide. The two
other players were Dave Duerson, a Chicago Bears’ safety, and
Andre Waters, a Philadelphia Eagles defensive back.  Their families are suing the NFL and Riddell Sports Inc.,
the league’s official helmet provider, for refusing to properly
acknowledge or address the concussion threat.  Neurological Risks  “The NFL for decades had information about neurological
risks, and because it didn’t cause bleeding and cause broken
bones, the league ignored it,” Frederick said.  The collective bargaining agreements, first established in
1968, address issues of player safety and health, Clement said.
There’s no way to evaluate the NFL’s duty of care without
interpreting the agreement that was negotiated, he said.  About 300 players in the lawsuit who played before 1968 or
from 1987 to 1993 aren’t covered by a bargaining agreement,
Brian McCarthy, an NFL spokesman, said today. The claims for
those players would nevertheless be barred because they’re still
receiving retirement benefits, Clement said.  “Players who played in those years are the most difficult
cases for us,” Clement told Brody.  Riddell, a unit of Van Nuys, California-based Easton-Bell
Sports Inc., argued today that the players’ lawsuits against it
should be dismissed because the claims don’t single out a
particular helmet as having a defect.  Similar Products  It’s not appropriate to combine the lawsuits just because
they claim use of similar products, Paul Cereghini, an attorney
for the helmet maker, said.  He asked Brody to either sever and dismiss the cases
against his client or sever them and have the plaintiffs file
amended individual complaints.  Such an action would result in the filing of cases in
different courts over the same issue, Martin Buchanan, an
attorney for the players, said. Riddell may still be liable even
if Brody finds the players’ lawsuit against the league is barred
by contract, Buchanan said.  “The case against Riddell involves garden-variety claims
that don’t arise from the CBA,” Buchanan said. “It involves
standard duties imposed on a manufacturer in any state.”  Brody, who is supervising the exchange of pretrial evidence
in the case, will decide whether the players’ claims can proceed
to trial. She didn’t indicate during today’s hearing when she
would rule. The losing side may ask Brody for permission to
appeal.  The case is In re National Football Players’ Concussion
Injury Litigation, 12-md-02323, U.S. District Court, Eastern
District of  Pennsylvania  (Philadelphia).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  