-- Nomura Retakes Top Bond Rank After Softbank Sale: Japan Credit
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 2013-04-09T04:54:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/nomura-retakes-top-bond-rank-after-softbank-sale-japan-credit.html
Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)  regained the
top spot in Japan’s bond underwriter rankings as it mobilized a
177-branch network to help  Softbank Corp. (9984)  sell debt to
households and the impact of an insider-trading scandal faded.  Japan’s biggest brokerage overtook Mizuho Financial Group
Inc. in the three months ended March from the preceding quarter,
increasing its market share to 29 percent of all issuances
including its own, the most since 2008, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Bond sales in Japan fell 25 percent from a year
earlier to 2.7 trillion yen ($27 billion), more than a 7.3
percent drop in the U.S., the data show.  “We used our entire branch network to sell the bonds to
individuals, wealthy investors, schools and religious groups,”
Masanori Azuma, head of debt capital markets at Nomura, said in
an April 5 interview in Tokyo. He was referring to the 210
billion yen sale for wireless carrier Softbank, the largest
corporate issuance Nomura underwrote in its 87-year history.  Government issuers that dropped Nomura last year amid
revelations that employees had leaked information on equity
offerings are once again selling bonds through the Tokyo-based
firm. Shares of Nomura have more than doubled in the past five
months as investors bet that fiscal and monetary stimulus
designed to end  deflation  will spur fundraising and investing.  “Nomura is no longer lamenting the damage it suffered from
last year’s insider scandals,” said Makoto Kikuchi, chief
executive officer at Myojo Asset Management Co., a Tokyo-based
hedge fund advisory firm. “It has marketing power and will keep
boosting its share as more companies and agencies look to sell
bonds amid falling long-term  interest rates .”  ‘Good Proposal’  Softbank offered the mandate to Nomura as “it submitted a
good proposal at an early stage,” said Hiroe Kotera, a
spokeswoman at the mobile operator. Tokyo-based Softbank, which
introduced the iPhone to Japanese users, raised the funds after
agreeing to buy Sprint Nextel Corp. for $20 billion.  The note was called the “Fukuoka Softbank Hawks Bond,”
named after the phone company’s baseball team, and investors
were given a bath towel with an imprint of a white dog, the
mascot used in its  television advertisements , Kotera said.  “The rankings illustrate Nomura has a very strong sales
network for retail and corporate clients in Japan,” said Mutsuo Suzuki, an analyst at Moody’s Investors Service in Tokyo.
“Nomura has attractive resources for issuers.”  Highest Fee  Nomura received a 1.5 percent fee from Softbank, about
three times higher than the 0.451 percent weighted average
disclosed fee so far this year in Japan, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The ratio is the highest for a corporate bond
sale managed by Nomura since at least 1998, when the data became
available, according to company spokesman Kenji Yamashita.  “The fee was high as Softbank hasn’t completed the
acquisition and is  under review  by credit rating agencies,”
said Azuma, who is also a managing director at Nomura.  Elsewhere in Japan’s credit markets, Orix Corp. plans to
price 5-year and 10-year bonds for individual investors on April
12, according to a filing yesterday with the Ministry of
Finance. The Tokyo-based leasing company last month issued 25
billion yen of 0.513 percent notes maturing in 2018, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The extra yield that investors demand to hold Japan’s
corporate bonds rather than sovereign debt was at 38 basis
points yesterday after falling to 37 on April 5, matching the
lowest since August 2011, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index data. The so-called spread for company notes
worldwide fell to 148 basis points, or 1.48 percentage points.  Sovereign Yields  Yields on Japan’s benchmark 10-year government bonds fell
half a basis point to 0.52 percent today, after the rates
touched a record low of 0.315 percent on April 5. The securities
 yielded  122 basis points less than similar-maturity U.S.
Treasuries, versus 109 a year earlier, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  The  Markit iTraxx Japan index  of credit-default swaps for
50 companies fell to 92 basis points yesterday, the least since
November 2010, according to data provider CMA, which is owned by
McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market. A decrease in the contracts signals
improving perceptions of creditworthiness.  The yen traded at 99.22 per dollar at 1:48 p.m. in Tokyo
today, after earlier falling to 99.66, the weakest since May
2009. It has tumbled 22 percent in the past six months, the
worst performance among the 10 developed-market currencies
tracked by the Bloomberg Correlation Weighted Indexes.  Nomura Shares  Nomura shares fell 0.8 percent at 1:49 p.m. in Tokyo today
after soaring 10 percent yesterday, the most since October 2009,
as the weakening yen propelled the benchmark  Nikkei 225 Stock
Average (NKY)  to the highest in more than four years. Credit-default
swaps protecting Nomura bondholders from nonpayment dropped to
150 basis points on April 5, CMA prices show, and reached 133.7
on March 11, the lowest in two years.  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306) ’s venture with Morgan
Stanley was second in the bond underwriting rankings last
quarter, improving from third in the previous three months, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Mizuho dropped to third from first.  Nomura was previously No. 1 underwriter in the first three
months of 2012, before regulators said it failed to prevent
staff from providing tips to traders on share sales it managed.  Japan Housing Finance Agency resumed working with Nomura on
bond sales in October after dropping the firm as an underwriter
of residential mortgage-backed securities in July, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. It appointed Nomura to co-manage bond sales
for the six months ending Sept. 30, according to the government
agency’s website.  Requirements Met  Nomura “met our requirements” to be a candidate for lead
underwriter this fiscal year, Shin Tomonari, assistant manager
at Japan Housing Finance, said by phone on April 4.  Development Bank of Japan Inc.  hired Nomura for a sale of
notes in November after the state-owned lender replaced it in
July to avoid “any disruption” to an issuance. The southern
prefecture of Fukuoka named Nomura to manage bond sales for this
fiscal year, according to its website.  “We will keep making efforts to restore our credibility by
offering better business proposals,” Azuma said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  