-- North Korean Woori Branch Faces Crunch as Cash Trucks Barred
-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 2013-04-09T04:25:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/north-korean-woori-branch-faces-crunch-as-cash-trucks-barred-1-.html
Woori Finance Holdings Co. (053000) , owner of
the only South Korean bank with a branch in the North, said it
expects its outlet at Gaeseong industrial complex to run out of
cash “soon” amid rising military tensions.  The branch may need to interrupt  service  to South Korean
businesses that require the cash to pay wages there, the Woori
Bank unit said in an e-mailed response to questions today,
declining to provide a timeframe. Four North Korean employees
haven’t come to work, and one person who traveled south last
week couldn’t return, leaving a staff of two, it said.  The lender hasn’t been allowed to send cash trucks carrying
U.S. dollars and South Korean won to the branch since  North
Korea  began barring entry into the jointly run industrial park
from April 3. North Korea said yesterday it will suspend
operations indefinitely at Gaeseong, where more than 120 small
businesses led by garment makers and textile companies operate.  Operations at the Gaeseong branch are continuing normally,
and there hasn’t been an increase in the number of customers
seeking to withdraw funds from their accounts, Woori Bank said.  Shares of  Woori Finance , which is controlled by the South
Korean government, climbed 0.8 percent to 11,950 won as of 12:47
p.m. on the Korea Exchange. That compared with the benchmark
 Kospi index’s  0.7 percent drop. Woori Bank is the nation’s
second-largest by assets.  Gaeseong Workers  Gaeseong is the last remaining example of inter-Korean
cooperation, with about 53,000 North Koreans employed at the
complex. From its opening in 2005 through Jan. 31, goods
totaling more than $2 billion have been produced there,
according to Unification Ministry data.  About 900 South Koreans regularly visit Gaeseong, located
about 10 miles (16 kilometers) north of the demilitarized zone,
the world’s most heavily fortified border.  The bank, which first opened its branch in Gaeseong in
December 2004, doesn’t provide loans at that outlet. It accepts
deposits from its South Korean clients and transfers won and
U.S. dollars to the branch in cash trucks. Woori Bank declined
to comment on the schedule for the transfers or disclose other
details about the trucks, citing security concerns.  The Gaeseong branch doesn’t engage in direct transactions
with North Korean people, companies or organizations, the lender
said today.  The bank plans to continue supporting its corporate clients
there as long as the industrial park’s management committee
allows them to do so and the businesses remain in the complex,
Woori said in the e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  