-- Denmark’s NOW: Pensions Will Sponsor British Men’s Hockey
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2013-04-09T12:02:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/now-pensions-signs-4-year-deal-with-british-men-s-hockey-team.html
NOW: Pensions, a retirement fund
manager run by  Denmark ’s largest pension fund ATP, signed a
four-year deal to sponsor the  England  and Britain men’s field
hockey teams.  The partnership with England Hockey ranges from grassroots
children’s hockey to the men’s domestic league and national team
level. Although both parties said the deal is the biggest ever
in men’s hockey in England, no financial details were disclosed.  Hilleroed, Denmark-based ATP said in September 2011 it
would enter the U.K. market by offering services through NOW:
Pensions. The U.K. government in October introduced an
automatic-enrollment pension policy that requires companies to
offer a  retirement plan  with employees opting out rather than
in.  “The ambition of our two organizations feels very similar
as we continue to take advantage of the opportunity London 2012
has given us to grow the numbers playing and watching our
sport,” said  England Hockey  Chief Executive Officer Sally
Munday. “It’s a real fillip for both the elite and grassroots
elements of the sport.”  The partnership comes 18 months after  Investec Plc (INL) , a
private bank and wealth manager with operations in  South Africa ,
the U.K. and  Australia , struck a five-year sponsorship deal with
the England and Britain women’s field hockey teams.  Hockey is among the oldest Olympic sports, having made its
first appearance at the 1908 London Games. The British men’s
hockey team missed out on a medal at last year’s London Olympics
after a 9-2 defeat to the Netherlands in the semifinals.  “Over the next four years the men’s program will be
centralized to allow athletes access to more frequent quality
training, which we feel is essential to ensure England and Great
Britain advance on a world level,” England Hockey performance
director Danny Kerry said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh on the London sports desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  