-- Obama Nominee Pledges Case-by-Case Review of Gas Exports
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2013-04-09T17:23:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/obama-nominee-pledges-case-by-case-review-of-gas-exports.html
President  Barack Obama ’s nominee for
energy secretary said the U.S. should consider the
“cumulative” economic effects of exporting more natural gas,
without indicating whether he believes it would hurt domestic
manufacturers and drive up prices as some Democrats contend.  Ernest Moniz, head of the  Massachusetts Institute of
Technology ’s Energy Institute, told the Senate Energy and
Natural Resources Committee today the Energy Department should
individually review each application to construct export
terminals and weigh regional impacts in the U.S. of more sales
overseas.  Hydraulic fracturing in shale rock has driven down costs
for natural gas, boosting manufacturers in the U.S. that use it
as a fuel or ingredient for their products. The department is
reviewing more than 16 applications from companies that want to
export some of the U.S.’s growing reserves.  “We have an obligation to make judgments application by
application,” Moniz said.  Among those seeking to export gas are  Sempra Energy (SRE)  of San
Diego and  Dominion Resources Inc. (D)  of Richmond, Virginia.
 Cheniere Energy Inc. (LNG)  has won approval for a facility that would
begin exporting in 2015.  Moniz told the committee, which is considering his
nomination, he would make sure the data the Energy Department
will rely on in reviewing applications to build export terminals
are “relevant to the issue at hand.”  Economic Study  The Energy Department is relying on an economic analysis,
released in December, to examine the applications from companies
to build terminals to export liquefied natural gas to markets in
Europe and Asia, including Japan. Moniz pledged to review the
study.  The analysis, which endorsed exports, used outdated
information and didn’t fully examine regional effects, said
Oregon Democratic Senator Ron Wyden, the chairman of the panel.  Some critics of unlimited exports have expressed concern
that the department would approve all the applications at once
and leave it to the market to determine which ones were built.
That could lead to too much gas going overseas, companies such
as  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)  have argued.  As an academic, Moniz, 68, a former Energy Department
undersecretary for President  Bill Clinton , has favored natural
gas as a bridge fuel between coal and sources that generate less
pollution.  Sierra Club  Environmental groups including the  Sierra Club  in San
Francisco say hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, is a threat to
the environment.  The MIT’s Energy Institute issued a report in 2011 that
said the environmental risks of increased drilling and
production “are challenging but manageable.”  Moniz said in prepared testimony that the “natural gas
’revolution’” is reducing carbon-dioxide emissions and leading
to a “dramatic expansion” of manufacturing in the U.S. Natural
gas releases fewer  carbon emissions , which most scientists say
contribute to global warming, than coal.  Moniz told the committee that it was, “very important to
have public confidence in environmental stewardship as we
produce this resource.”  Fracking Regulations  The Interior Department is writing regulations for fracking
on public lands. Moniz said the Energy Department may study
whether methane leaks from the drilling and transport of the
fuel undercut its climate benefits.  Moniz and the energy institute he ran at MIT have been
criticized because some of the authors of the 2011 natural gas
report didn’t acknowledge ties to the industry.  The Public Accountability Initiative, a Buffalo,  New York- 
based group that opposes fracking, said today that newly
released financial disclosures to Canadian regulators show that
 Talisman Energy Inc. (TLM)  paid MIT study co-chairman Anthony Meggs
$4.5 million in 2012.  “Moniz promoted the junk science of gas industry
millionaires as if it was independent research,” said Kevin
Connor, Public Accountability Initiative’s director, in a
statement.  The issue didn’t come up at today’s hearing.  Moniz himself has ties to the  energy industry . He performed
consulting work last year for  General Electric Co. (GE) ,  BP Plc (BP/) , and
Riverstone Equity Partners LP, according to his financial
disclosure forms.  Moniz disclosed a net worth of between $5.4 million and
$18.1 million. In a letter filed with the Office of Government
Ethics, Moniz said that if he is confirmed by the Senate, he
would resign his board seats, and would refrain for one year
from participating in matters pertaining to companies with which
he financial relationships.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  