-- Obama’s NLRB Nominees Include Critic of Boeing Case
-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 2013-04-09T19:27:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/obama-s-nlrb-nominees-include-critic-of-boeing-case.html
President  Barack Obama  picked a
Democrat and two Republicans to the U.S. labor board, including
a lawyer who in 2011 faulted the agency’s prosecution of Boeing
Co. for opening an airplane factory in South Carolina.  Obama today nominated Republicans Harry Johnson, a lawyer
with Arent Fox LLP in  Los Angeles  who covers management-side
labor and employment law, and Philip Miscimarra, a partner in
the labor and employment group of Morgan Lewis & Bockius LLP, in
Chicago, for the  National Labor Relations Board . Chairman Mark Gaston Pearce, whose term end in August, was renominated.  If all three are confirmed by the Senate, the NLRB will be
at full strength and without the uncertainty created when a
federal court in January said three 2012 appointees were
“constitutionally invalid.” The administration has appealed to
the  Supreme Court . Republicans have sought to stop the board
from issuing decisions until the legal status is resolved.  “He’s trying to make them an offer they can’t refuse,”
 Gary Chaison , a labor-relations professor at  Clark University  in
Worcester, Massachusetts, said in a telephone interview. “He’s
come back to an incredibly contentious issue, but he’s come back
to it in a fairly conciliatory way.”  Obama drew fire from business groups and Republicans in
February when he nominated Democrats Sharon Block and  Richard Griffin . Their 2012 appointments were ruled invalid because
Obama had acted when the Senate wasn’t in recess, the  U.S. Court
of Appeals  in Washington ruled Jan. 25. To prevent Obama from
making appointments, House and Senate Republicans refused to
declare a recess. The Senate then held so-called pro-forma
sessions every few days that lasted less than 2 minutes.  Boeing Case  Miscimarra, a labor lawyer invited to testify before a
House panel in  South Carolina  on June 17, 2011, criticized the
board’s acting general counsel, Lafe Solomon, for issuing a
complaint against Boeing in an unfair labor practice case tied
to building a factory in South Carolina, a state where laws
forbid collective bargaining agreements that require union
membership.  “The board’s general counsel acts like a traffic cop,”
Miscimarra told the House Committee on Oversight and Government
Reform. “But traffic citations don’t routinely involve
impounding the car for five to 10 years. And that’s the
practical effect when an NLRB complaint challenges major
investment decisions.”  The board on Dec. 9, 2011, withdrew the complaint after
Boeing reached an agreement with the International Association
of Machinists, which had asked the board to get involved.  Resignation Sought  “As tradition requires, the president has properly
nominated two Republicans,” Senator  Lamar Alexander  of
Tennessee, senior Republican on the Health, Education, Labor and
Pensions Committee, said in an e-mail. “As the Senate considers
the nominees, the two individuals who were unconstitutionally
appointed should leave, because the decisions in which they
continue to participate are invalid.”  As of March, employers questioning the validity of Obama’s
2012 board picks had appealed 97 rulings since the court ruling.
Hundreds of orders, decisions and routine actions by the board
have been open to legal challenge.  Senator  Tom Harkin  of Iowa, chairman of the committee that
will review the nominations, said he hoped Republicans would
give timely consideration to the package of five nominees.  Obama “has taken an important step toward restoring
stability to our system of labor-management relations, which has
been in disarray since the D.C. Circuit’s decision,”  Richard Trumka , president of the AFL-CIO labor federation, said in a
statement. “Putting forward a full, bipartisan package of
nominees to the NLRB is the right thing to do.”  The January court ruling also may be used to challenge
rules from the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, whose
director,  Richard Cordray , was appointed when the labor board
members were named. The Obama administration said the ruling is
limited to the company that challenged the NLRB’s decision in
court. Obama today also nominated Cordray.  “The president is doing the right thing with the NLRB
after exhausting every other possibility,” Fred Wszolek,
spokesman for the Workforce Fairness Institute business and
trade group that focuses on labor issues, said by telephone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in  New York  at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  