-- Loblaw to Maple Leaf Surge as Need Beats Want
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a   a n d   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2013-04-09T13:44:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/loblaw-to-maple-leaf-surge-as-need-beats-want.html
Companies such as  Loblaw Cos. Ltd. (L) 
and  Maple Leaf Foods Inc. (MFI)  that sell household staples are
reaping the rewards as Canadian shoppers turn more frugal amid
record  consumer debt .  The Standard & Poor’s/TSX index of consumer staples stocks
has  surged  11 percent in six months through yesterday, touching
an all-time high on March 28, compared with a 0.6 percent
decline for the Toronto benchmark. Ten of 11 members in the
index have posted positive returns over that period, led by a 31
percent gain by beverage-maker  Cott Corp. (COT)  and a 25 percent
return by Maple Leaf, a Toronto-based manufacturer of meat
products and baked goods. Brampton, Ontario-based Loblaw, the
nation’s biggest grocer, has returned 22 percent.  “The beauty about the consumer-staples group is what
you’re really buying are companies that sell what people need,
as opposed to what they want,”  David Rosenberg , chief economist
and strategist with Gluskin Sheff + Associates in Toronto said
in a telephone interview on April 4. “You can tap into the
consumer without really having to make a directional bet on the
shape of the economy.”  The world’s 11th-largest economy is expanding at the
slowest pace since emerging from recession in 2009, in part
because the country’s indebted consumers are scaling back
purchases of discretionary items and becoming more price
conscious.  The ratio of Canadian  household debt  to disposable income
rose to a record 165 percent at the end of last year while
54,500 people lost their jobs in March, the biggest decline
since the recession in 2009,  Statistics Canada  reported on April
5.  Return Cash  Companies such as Laval, Quebec-based convenience-store
operator  Alimentation Couche Tard Inc. (ATD/B) , and Loblaw are
attractive because they have solid management teams with track
records of generating cash and returning funds to shareholders,
said Brandon Snow, a portfolio manager with Cambridge Advisors,
a division of CI Investments Inc.  “If you’re talking about an equity fund that can hopefully
generate high single-digit or low double-digit compound returns
over time, these names need to be in there,” said Snow, lead
manager of the C$2.1 billion ($2.1 billion) Cambridge Canadian
Equity Corporate Class mutual fund. CI Investments is the
second- largest  shareholder of Couche Tard and the fifth-largest
Loblaw shareholder, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Including dividends, Couche Tard has  returned  63 percent
over the last year, while Loblaw has  gained  26 percent, compared
with a total return for the S&P/TSX index of 5.2  percent.
Couche Tard was little changed at C$55.12 at 9:41 a.m. in
Toronto while Loblaw slipped 0.5 percent to C$41.33.  Confidence Declines  Non-durable goods consumption, which include items such as
food, was one of the fastest growing sector of the economy in
the last nine months of 2012, growing at an average quarterly
rate of about 2.9 percent over that period. That compares with
0.3 percent for the economy as a whole and about 0.5 percent for
household consumption expenditures.  The economy’s  performance  in the second half of last year
was the weakest since the 2009 recession. It will grow 1.7
percent in 2013, according to the average estimate of 28
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. That would be the weakest
since a 2.8 percent contraction in 2009.  Consumer confidence  is declining too. The Nanos Economic
Mood Index -- an aggregate of survey responses on the outlook
for the economy,  job security , personal finances and real estate
-- fell to 99 in February, the lowest since 2009.  As the economy has slowed, investors have shifted their
money from energy and raw materials producers into more
“defensive” stocks, said Derek Dley, an analyst at Canaccord
Genuity Corp. The S&P/TSX materials  index  has dropped 22 percent
over the last six months, while the  energy  index has fallen 2.6
percent.  Middle Squeezed  Loblaw stock has 10 buys, four holds and no sells,
according to analyst ratings  compiled  by Bloomberg, while the
average 12-month price target rose to C$43.50 as of yesterday
from C$37.46 on Dec. 12. The price target on  Barrick Gold Corp (ABX) ,
the world’s largest producer of the metal, has  declined  to C$43
from C$48.67 over the same period. Shares of the Toronto-based
firm have 15 buys, 12 holds and one sell, according to Bloomberg
data.  “These value-play retailers will continue to do well in
the face of a relatively cautious consumer,” Dley said by phone
from  Vancouver  on March 28. “The luxury guys tend to hold up
pretty well. It’s everyone in the middle that gets squeezed.”  U.S. consumer staples’ stocks are also benefiting from this
time-tested defensive strategy with the  S&P 500  Consumer Staples
 index  of 42 stocks advancing 18 percent in the past year,
compared with a 12 percent gain for the parent S&P 500.  U.S. Competition  To be sure, Canadian retailers are increasingly facing
competition from U.S. chains.  Target Corp. (TGT) , the second-largest
U.S. food distributor, began operating in  Canada  this year and
plans to open 125 to 135 stores in 2013. The company last month
announced the opening of 21 stores in Ontario, the country’s
most-populous province.  Shelley Broader, chief executive officer of the Canadian
unit of  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the world’s largest retailer, said
in a Jan. 22 interview that her chain plans to expand its fresh-
food offerings to every store in Canada, from about 50 percent
now. The Bentonville, Arkansas-based retailer has said it will
spend C$450 million to build new stores and renovate others,
adding at least 37 superstores in the next year to its 379
locations in Canada.  “In Canadian retail, where are you going to find a good
growth story?” Vivian Lo, who helps manage C$6.7 billion at
 Aston Hill Financial Inc. (AHF)  said in an April 3 interview in
Bloomberg’s Toronto office “You don’t have many of those.”  Value Conscious  While Aston Hill owns Couche Tard and Montreal-based grocer
 Metro Inc. (MRU)  among Canadian retailers, the firm has been looking
outside the country for consumer stocks, she said.  Still, the experience Canadian retailers have gained
competing with companies such as Wal-Mart have helped them keep
their costs down, said Jennifer Bartashus, an analyst with
Bloomberg Industries. Loblaw said Feb. 28 that it kept its
average quarterly internal food prices “flat” in the fourth
quarter of 2012, even though national food inflation averaged
1.5 percent.  “They have been very focused on delivering to the value-
oriented consumer, which has become a prevalent mindset in
Canada,” Bartashus said in an interview.  “They’ve made their
investment early on, anticipating and knowing this would be a
continuing trend. You are seeing some reward for that
foresight.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net ;
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  