-- Modi Takes Agenda to Former Marxist Bastion in Bid to Lead India
-- B y   P r a d i p t a   M u k h e r j e e   a n d   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 2013-04-09T09:43:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/modi-takes-agenda-to-former-marxist-bastion-in-bid-to-lead-india.html
Narendra Modi  took his free-market
economic ideology to a former bastion of communism where he
pilloried India’s national government that he said had run out
of ideas and was ruining the economy.  In a speech in Kolkata, his third high-profile address in
two days, the man who’s emerging as the the most likely prime
ministerial candidate for the  Bharatiya Janata Party  ahead of
next year’s election, criticized the governing Congress party
over its failure to check inflation, lift farm growth and boost
power supply. Misrule meant people remain hungry while food rots
in nearby warehouses, he said today.  “The situation can be changed,” Modi, the 62-year-old
chief minister of Gujarat, told the city’s business community.
The federal government’s “machinery is at a standstill” and it
is on “borrowed time,” he said in West Bengal, which was ruled
by Marxist parties for 34 years until 2011.  While Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  is struggling to turn
around an economy growing at its weakest pace in a decade,
Modi’s government in Gujarat has been hailed by investors
including  Tata Group ’s former chairman  Ratan Tata , and
billionaire  Mukesh Ambani , chairman of  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) 
Expansion in the province has averaged 10 percent under Modi.  Gujarat has raised power generation capacity more than
fivefold, while the government says it is the only state in
India to have surplus electricity. Its success in improving
health and education indicators has lagged behind other states.  ‘Radical Solutions’  Still, some of the BJP’s allies may oppose any move to
project Modi as a prime ministerial candidate on concern the
decision may antagonize Muslim voters who accuse him of failing
to stop riots in Gujarat in 2002 that targeted the community and
left more than 1,000 people dead.  Modi was elevated to BJP’s highest decision-making body
this month, bolstering his stature amid jockeying to lead the
party into the poll scheduled for May next year. While the BJP
has yet to declare its candidate for premier, Modi’s third
consecutive election victory in Gujarat and his high opinion
poll ratings have made him a favorite among party members.  “Modi has what it takes to lead the country because he has
practical and radical solutions to problems,” Deepak Jalan, the
managing director of  Linc Pen & Plastics Ltd. , who was in the
audience in Kolkata said in an interview after the speech. “He
seems to be the best leader to face the challenges.”  Speaking at two events in  New Delhi  yesterday, Modi pitched
for more reforms to the economy, simpler rules for investors,
the decentralization of power and privatization of state-owned
companies.  Gandhi Beehive  Modi’s speeches highlighting the image of an able
administrator are being seen as an attempt to draw a contrast
with  Rahul Gandhi , scion of the Nehru-Gandhi family that heads
Congress. Gandhi, who was appointed as his party’s vice
president in January, will lead its campaign for the
parliamentary polls.  In his first major public speech to business leaders,
Gandhi, 42, the son of Congress president  Sonia Gandhi  and
assassinated Prime Minister  Rajiv Gandhi , talked last week about
the need to bring the poor and marginalized into the political
process. Referring to India as a beehive buzzing with energy,
Gandhi dismissed the idea that one person could transform India,
an apparent reference to the momentum building behind Modi.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net ;
Pradipta Mukherjee in Kolkata at 
 pmukherjee7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  