-- Hong Kong Port Workers to Hold Talks as Strike Enters 13th Day
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 2013-04-09T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/hong-kong-port-workers-to-hold-talks-as-strike-enters-13th-day.html
Striking dockworkers at  Hongkong
International Terminals Ltd. , the  port operator  backed by
billionaire  Li Ka-shing , will hold talks with their employers
today amid signs that the stoppage may be losing support.  Union negotiators will join the talks, Wong Yu-loy, a
representative of the Union of Hong Kong Dockers, said by phone
yesterday. Hongkong International Terminals executives will also
attend the meetings, according to a transcript of remarks by
Matthew Cheung, Hong Kong secretary for labor and welfare,
published on the government’s website yesterday. The government
arranged the meetings, he said.  The dockworkers, who are employed by contractors instead of
the company directly, have been on a strike since March 28 to
demand an increase of about 25 percent in wages. Shipping lines
including  Evergreen Marine Corp Taiwan Ltd. (2603)  and  Japan ’s  Mitsui
OSK Lines Ltd. (9104)  have diverted vessels or skipped calling at Hong
Kong, as the strike threatens the city’s reputation as a trade
hub for  China .  “I appeal to all parties concerned to really seize this
opportunity,” Cheung said in his remarks, adding that a
solution “must be in the interest not only of employees and
workers, not only in the interest of the companies concerned and
contractors, but also in the overall interest of Hong Kong. It
is very very important because the port itself is very important
to Hong Kong’s economy.”  A vessel currently needs to anchor outside of Hong Kong
port for two to four days before berthing, compared with no
waiting period before the strike, said Paul Tsui, chairman of
 Hong Kong  Association of Freight Forwarding and Logistics Ltd.,
which represents 345 freight forwarders in the city.  Wage Demands  About 250 workers remained on the street outside the
entrance of the port terminal in Hong Kong’s Kwai Tsing
district, the union’s Wong said. Labor discontent has risen as
the former British colony’s wealth gap widened the most since
records started in 1971.  Hongkong International Terminals is now running at about 80
percent of usual operating levels as an increasing number of
workers are returning, the company said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday. Daily loss narrowed to HK$2.4 million ($309,100) on
April 5 from HK$5 million earlier, the company said.  The workers are demanding that hourly wages rise by
HK$12.50 from about HK$50, the dockworkers’ union said earlier.
Strikers won’t accept an offer of a 5 percent pay increase, RTHK
reported on April 3, citing Lee Cheuk-yan, a lawmaker from Hong
Kong’s  Labor Party .  The government plans to preside at talks including the Hong
Kong Confederation of Trade Unions, its unions, two contractors
and representatives of Hongkong International Terminals starting
at 10 a.m. today, it said on its website yesterday. The Hong
Kong Federation of Trade Unions and the Federation of Hong Kong
and Kowloon Labour Unions are set to take part in a separate
discussion from 2:30 p.m.  Hongkong International Terminals is operated by  Hutchison
Port Holdings Trust (HPHT) , whose largest shareholder is Li Ka-shing’s
 Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13)  Hutchison Port controls more than half
Hong Kong’s port capacity with its partner  Cosco Pacific Ltd. (1199)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmine Wang in Hong Kong at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  