-- Honus Wagner Card Case Plea Deal Rejected Again by Judge
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-04-09T22:35:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/honus-wagner-card-case-plea-deal-rejected-again-by-u-s-judge.html
A U.S. judge rejected for the second
time a plea agreement between prosecutors and William Mastro,
the former sports memorabilia auction house chief accused of
altering a rare baseball card to boost its value.  The onetime Mastro Auctions principal, charged with mail
fraud, agreed to enter a guilty plea admitting he used shill
bidders to increase prices and altered a 1909 baseball card
depicting the Hall of Fame Pittsburgh Pirates shortstop Honus Wagner. In exchange, he was to receive a prison term of no more
than 30 months, according to an April 2 court filing.  The agreement would let Mastro avoid a potential 20-year
sentence if convicted at a trial and it wouldn’t require him to
aid the prosecution of three other men charged in the case.  “I’m not sure what I’m getting into, so I’m not getting
into it,” U.S. District Judge Ronald A. Guzman in  Chicago  told
lawyers for both sides today.  American Tobacco Co. issued the Wagner card as part of a
524-card set without the ballplayer’s permission, said Ken Goldin of West Berlin,  New Jersey ’s Goldin Auctions. Wagner
didn’t want youngsters buying cigarettes to get his photo,
according to the Society for American Baseball  Research . When he
objected, the card was withdrawn from what later became known as
the T-206 series.  Goldin sold  another T-206 Wagner card  for more than
$2.1 million on April 6.  ‘Best Player’  “Honus Wagner was the best player in baseball. People seem
to forget his historical importance,” said Goldin. “He was
considered the greatest player at the turn of the century in
baseball.”  Maybe 150 were issued, of which perhaps 50 or fewer exist
today, Goldin said in a phone interview.  “It’s really the face of the hobby,” he said. He declined
to comment on the controversy surrounding the Mastro card.  Guzman first rejected the Mastro plea deal in February,
asking Assistant U.S. Attorney Nancy DePodesta, “What does the
government get out of this?”  In an April 2 court submission, prosecutors laid out their
theory of how the cost of Mastro’s alleged bid rigging should be
determined and what they learned from him.  Mastro “candidly spoke” of using shills to bid up auction
prices and of “having cut the sides of the T206 Honus Wagner
card despite prior statements to the contrary,” according to
the court document.  Prosecutors said his statements helped solidify their case
against the other defendants.  Collector Letter  The judge today confronted lawyers for both sides with a
letter he received from a collector claiming to have been bilked
by Mastro in a $10,000 purchase in 1998.  “I’m not at all sure what it means,” the judge said.
“Let’s move on from there.” He set a conference for May 14 at
which the parties may be forced to select a trial date.  Michael Monico, Mastro’s attorney, and  Randall Samborn , a
spokesman for acting Chicago U.S. Attorney  Gary Shapiro ,
declined to comment after today’s hearing.  Mastro, 60, of Palos Park,  Illinois , owned the auction
business until 2004 and was its chairman and chief executive
officer from 1996 to February 2009, according to the government.  The case is U.S. v. Mastro, 1:12-cr-00567, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse
at   aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 