-- Lonza CFO Sees Disposals Helping Trim $2.5 Billion Debt
-- B y   P a t r i c k   W i n t e r s
-- 2013-04-09T14:47:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/lonza-cfo-sees-disposals-helping-trim-2-5-billion-debt-burden.html
Lonza Group AG (LONN)  is looking to
portfolio adjustments alongside better cash generation, tighter
capital expenditure controls and a global review of the Swiss
drug-ingredient maker’s plants to whittle down $2.5 billion of
debts over the next years, Finance Chief Toralf Haag said.  Lonza’s net debt spiralled from 1.1 billion francs ($1.2
billion) at the end of 2010 to over 2.6 billion francs a year
later when it acquired water treatment chemicals-maker Arch
Chemicals for $1.35 billion. Lonza will cut debts by about 200
million francs annually over the next years after cutting net
debt 13 percent in 2012 to 2.3 billion francs, Haag said in an
interview at Lonza’s annual general meeting in Basel.  “We are looking at all product or business portfolios
across the company,” Haag said about portfolio adjustments,
adding that the review includes units acquired from Arch
Chemicals. Lonza agreed on the sale of its Performance Urethanes
business, formerly part of Arch, to Monument Chemicals on Nov.
30. Haag says Lonza’s portfolio adjustments are still at the
evaluation phase and there is no timeline for updating the
market about decisions.  Lonza shares were up 0.2 percent as of 4:45 p.m. in Zurich
after falling as much as 0.9 percent in earlier trading. More
tham 182,000 shares changed hands or 57 percent of the three-
month average.  Factory Review  The company, with a market value of 3.1 billion francs,
will use three main criteria for deciding portfolio adjustments:
growth expectations; margins based on earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization and also return on net
operating assets, Haag said.  Lonza’s Chief Executive Officer Richard Ridinger is working
his way through a global review of the firm’s manufacturing
sites, as he seeks to make good on a share price which sank to
an all-time low below 35 francs in June from above 150 francs in
2008.  The German-born executive has acted to stem losses from
Lonza’s costly Swiss franc wage bill by eliminating about 400
jobs at a plant in Visp,  Switzerland  which makes chemicals
ranging from vitamins to snail-killing powder.  The share price has gained 16.8 percent this year to 57.65
francs, buoyed by Ridinger’s efforts to streamline the
manufacturing base. Lonza will give an update on its factory
review in July at first-half results, Haag said.  Lonza Chairman Rolf Soiron recruited Ridinger, an executive
vice-president of care chemicals at Cognis Holding GmbH who
helped to integrate the company into BASF, in May. He fired
former Chief Stefan Borgas for failing to deliver on promises.
Borgas was later hired as CEO of  Israel Chemicals Ltd. (ICL)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Winters in Zurich at 
 pwinters3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  