-- Moody’s Says Spain’s Credibility on Public Finances Is Weakening
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2013-04-09T08:16:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/moody-s-says-spain-s-credibility-on-public-finances-is-weakening.html
Spain ’s failure to honor budget-
deficit goals has hurt the country’s credibility and justifies a
negative outlook on the sovereign’s credit rating, Moody’s
Investors Service said.  “The continued deviations from agreed budgetary targets as
well as the repeated revisions of budget-deficit outcomes are
weakening the credibility of the Spanish government in the area
of public finance,” Moody’s analysts Kathrin Muehlbronner and
Bart Oosterveld wrote in a report published today.  At the same time “Spain’s fiscal performance has improved
materially in 2012 compared to 2011,” they said. “This was
achieved against the background of a weakening economy and is
therefore a positive step towards placing the country’s public
finances on a sustainable path.”  Moody’s has a Baa3 rating on Spain, the lowest investment
grade.  Standard & Poor’s  rates the country BBB-, the same level,
while Fitch Ratings holds it at BBB, two levels above junk.
Investors often ignore ratings, evidenced by the rally in
Treasuries after the U.S. lost its top grade at S&P in 2011.  Spain, the euro area’s fourth largest economy, is due to
submit its mid-term budget plans to the European Commission by
the end of the month and Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  has asked
it to ease the country’s  budget-deficit  goals to help lift the
economy out of a six-year  slump .  Deficit Targets  Spain’s current deficit targets are 4.5 percent of gross
domestic product for 2013 and 2.8 percent for 2014. That
compares with overspending of 10.2 percent of GDP last year, or
7 percent excluding aid to the banking sector.  Moody’s calculates the cost of bank recapitalizations added
an amount equivalent to 3.65 percent of output to Spain’s budget
gap last year.  Muehlbronner and Oosterveld expect the deficit to reach
about 6 percent of GDP this year as public sector employees’
Christmas bonus won’t be scrapped again and pension expenditure
has increased by more than 5 percent a year on average over the
past five years.  In 2014, a modest return to growth may reduce the deficit
to as low as 5 percent of GDP if temporary tax increases
introduced last year are maintained, according to the report.  Regarding Spain’s 17 semi-autonomous regions, they said
“the continuing accumulation of commercial debt signals
persistent liquidity tensions in the regional sector despite the
sizable state liquidity support provided in 2012.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  