-- Morgan Stanley Senior Media, Health Bankers Said to Leave
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e ,   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s
-- 2013-04-09T16:47:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/morgan-stanley-senior-media-health-bankers-said-to-leave.html
Morgan Stanley’s Alex Glantz and
Todd Davison, co-heads of media investment banking in  North
America , are among at least four bankers to leave the firm since
bonuses were awarded in late February, people briefed on the
matter said.  Glantz, 42, and Davison, 41, will join Centerview Partners
LLC, the investment bank founded by Blair Effron and Robert
Pruzan, said two people, asking to remain anonymous because the
moves aren’t public. Brian Silver, a managing director in the
health-care banking group, also left for  Perella Weinberg 
Partners LP, two people said. The trio have yet to begin their
new jobs as they’re on garden leave, the period workers must
wait before joining competitors.  Morgan Stanley deferred all bonuses for employees who have
both total pay of more than $350,000 and incentive compensation
of at least $50,000, a person briefed on the matter said in
January. Compensation costs at the investment banking and
trading division fell 8 percent in 2012 even as revenue climbed
11 percent, excluding accounting charges.  The firm wasn’t alone in cutting and deferring pay last
year. Average 2012 pay for bankers in underwriting and advisory
roles ranged between 10 percent lower and 5 percent higher,
according to a report last month from compensation consultant
Johnson Associates Inc. The report said bankers are more
reluctant to switch firms than in previous years.  Media Mergers  Morgan Stanley (MS)  ranked third in mergers and acquisitions
that involved North American media companies in 2012, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. There were $58.7 billion of such
deals last year, less than half that of 2007, the data show.  Davison and Silver, 44, both joined the bank in 1998,
according to employment records with the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority. They became managing directors in 2007 and
2005, respectively. Glantz was hired by New York-based Morgan
Stanley in 2000, and rose to managing director by 2006.  Spokesmen for Morgan Stanley, Perella Weinberg and
Centerview declined to comment. Davison, Glantz and Silver
didn’t return calls seeking comment.  Lyle Ayes left Morgan Stanley to join  Evercore Partners
Inc. (EVR) , the advisory firm founded by  Roger Altman , two people with
knowledge of the matter said last week. Ayes had worked in
several industries, including health care.  Separately, Laura Howard, who has co-run the European
health-care team at Morgan Stanley, is moving to  Hong Kong  as a
senior adviser and will continue to work with health-care
clients, two people with knowledge of the matter said. Thomas
Sheehan will continue to run the group in  Europe , the people
said.  Comcast Deal  Davison advised Comcast Corp. on its purchase of the
remaining 49 percent stake in  NBC Universal  from General
Electric Co. earlier this year. Glantz headed a Morgan Stanley
team that served as lead financial adviser to private-equity
firm Permira Advisers LLP in its acquisition of Renaissance
Learning Inc. in 2011.  Silver advised Pharmaceutical Product Development Inc. on
its 2011 buyout by two private-equity firms. Morgan Stanley
ranked third on global deals involving pharmaceutical and
health-care companies in 2012, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  