-- Mortgage Servicers’ Robosigning Payments Being Sent to Borrowers
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-04-09T14:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/mortgage-servicers-robosigning-payments-being-sent-to-borrowers.html
Rust Consulting Inc. will begin
sending $125,000 checks to 1,135 borrowers deemed most harmed by
botched foreclosures in 2009 and 2010 that led to a $9.3 billion
settlement between regulators and U.S. mortgage servicers.  The consulting firm is distributing $3.6 billion that
servicers including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Bank of America
Corp.  agreed to pay to settle claims they improperly seized
homes in the wake of the subprime mortgage crisis, according to
a statement from the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency
and Federal Reserve.  Payments will begin to go out April 12, with as many as 90
percent of more than 4 million affected borrowers expected to
receive their checks this month, according to the regulators.
The agencies expect the process to extend into mid-July, and
they are still working on payments to borrowers from servicers
that had been affiliated with  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and
 Morgan Stanley. (MS)   Those at the top of the scale for potential harm will
receive $125,000, and the 2.6 million categorized at the lowest
of 11 rungs of potential harm will get $300, the regulators
said. The remainder of the settlement money from the 13
servicers who signed on is meant to be used to prevent future
foreclosures.  After a rash of botched foreclosures during the previous
decade’s housing-market collapse, an earlier 2011 settlement
called for the servicers to hire outside consultants to review
the cases one-by-one and compensate borrowers based on actual
harm. After the process was beset by delays, those reviews were
mostly scrapped in the current settlement, which is meant to
give some level of payment to every borrower who went through
foreclosure during the two-year period.  The Government Accountability Office said in a report
released last week that insufficient guidance from the OCC and
 Federal Reserve  slowed down the earlier review process. A Senate
subcommittee will examine the relationship between regulators
and outside consultants in an April 11 hearing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  