-- Louisville Wins NCAA Basketball Title as Pitino Makes History
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-04-09T06:08:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/louisville-wins-ncaa-basketball-title-as-pitino-makes-history.html
The University of Louisville won its
first men’s college basketball championship since 1986, helping
 Rick Pitino  make history as the first coach to win titles at two
schools.  On the day Pitino learned he would be inducted into the
 Basketball Hall of Fame , Louisville last night erased a 12-point
first-half deficit and beat the University of Michigan 82-76 in
the championship game of the three-week-long National Collegiate
Athletic Association tournament.  The Cardinals’ celebration at center court of the Georgia
Dome in Atlanta came 17 years after Pitino’s first NCAA
championship at the  University of Kentucky  and 27 years after
freshman Pervis Ellison led Louisville to the second of two
titles under former coach Denny Crum. Pitino, 60, took over the
program in 2001 when Crum retired.  “Players put coaches in the Hall of Fame,” Pitino said
after receiving the championship trophy.  Luke Hancock scored 22 points to lead Louisville, hitting
all five of his 3-point shots, while Peyton Siva added 18 and
Chane Behanan had 15 points and 12 rebounds. The Cardinals, who
were 4-point favorites according to oddsmakers, outscored
Michigan 45-38 during the second half to finish the season with
a 16-game winning streak and 35-5 record.  Michigan (31-8) fell to 1-5 all-time in the NCAA title game,
with three straight losses since its lone title in 1989. The
Wolverines were back in the championship game for the first time
since the Fab Five recruiting class of Chris Webber, Jalen Rose,
Juwan Howard, Jimmy King and Ray Jackson had back-to-back losses
in 1992 and 1993. Howard, Rose and King were at last night’s
game, sitting in a section of Michigan fans.  Pitino’s Tattoo  In the closing seconds, Pitino was embraced by his
assistant coaches and players on the Louisville bench, and later
said he’d follow through with his promise to get a tattoo if the
team won a championship.  “I think that was our biggest motivation,” joked Siva, a
senior who added five assists and four steals.  Pitino is the 14th coach to win multiple men’s basketball
titles, with the other 13 all doing it at the same school. He’s
the fifth active coach with at least two championships, joining
 North Carolina ’s  Roy Williams ,  Florida ’s Billy Donovan,
 Connecticut ’s  Jim Calhoun  and Duke’s  Mike Krzyzewski .  Louisville’s title completes a college basketball season
marked by parity, with five schools ranked No. 1 in the
Associated Press poll and no team remaining in the top five
every week.  Top Ranking  Indiana  started the season as the top team before being
supplanted by Duke, which then was bumped by Louisville in mid-
January. Duke returned to No. 1 before Michigan made an
appearance atop the poll for the first time since 1992. Indiana
went back to the top spot before Gonzaga finished the season at
No. 1, only to become the first of the top regional seeds to be
eliminated in the NCAA tournament.  Louisville emerged as the only of the four No. 1 seeds to
reach the Final Four in Atlanta, yet needed to overcome several
challenges after winning its first three tournament games by an
average of 21.6 points.  The Cardinals pulled away from Duke in the Midwest regional
final after reserve guard Kevin Ware broke his right leg, an
injury so gruesome that it left several teammates and Pitino in
tears on the court. Louisville then rallied from a 12-point
second-half deficit against Wichita State in the national
semifinals to make the title game.  Louisville fought back again in Atlanta last night.  Michigan opened a 33-21 lead behind 17 points from freshman
guard Spike Albrecht, a backup to national player of the year
Trey Burke who had totaled 48 points in 33 regular-season games.
Albrecht hit 6-of-7 shots in the first half, including all four
of his 3-pointers, in a season-high 16 minutes as Burke was
limited to six minutes after picking up two fouls.  Louisville Run  Hancock answered for Louisville, scoring 14 straight points
for the Cardinals, including four consecutive 3-pointers.
Hancock’s shooting was part of a 16-4 scoring run that gave
Louisville its first lead at 37-36.  “I was nervous with how much momentum they had and how
well they were playing,” said Hancock, who became the first
non-starter to be named Most Outstanding Player at the Final
Four, according to NCAA research dating back to 1939. “Luckily,
we were able to come back.”  In the second half, Behanan hit a pair of free throws with
13 minutes and 50 seconds remaining to give the Cardinals the
lead for good. Behanan, Siva, Hancock, Russ Smith and Gorgui
Dieng then helped Louisville fend off a Michigan team that
featured five freshmen and was the least-experienced of 68
schools in the NCAA tournament. Hancock and Siva each made two
free throws in the final 30 seconds to seal the win.  Fireworks Celebration  As the Cardinals raced to midcourt to celebrate, Pitino
congratulated Michigan coach John Beilein, momentarily ducking
and shielding his head as fireworks exploded overhead, sending
streamers and confetti falling from the scoreboard.  Louisville fans cheered as Ware made his way onto the court
on crutches and helped his teammates cut down the nets.  “It’s not about me,” Ware said. “These are my brothers,
they got the job done and I’m so proud of them.”  Louisville is now the eighth school with at least three
men’s basketball championships, joining UCLA (11),  Kentucky  (8),
Indiana (5), North Carolina (5), Connecticut (3), Duke (3) and
 Kansas  (3). Pitino said his Cardinals are a much different group
than his 1996 Kentucky team that featured nine players who
played in the  National Basketball Association .  “In ’96 I had to control the egos, tell them it wasn’t
about the NBA, it was about winning a championship,” said
Pitino, who has a 48-16 NCAA tournament record. “This team is
one of the most together, hard-nosed, toughest teams. Being down
never bothered us. They just come back.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in Atlanta at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  