-- Poland Plans to Cut Subsidy for Renewables as Deficit Grows
-- B y   K o n r a d   K r a s u s k i
-- 2013-04-09T11:42:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/poland-plans-subsidy-cuts-for-renewable-energy-as-deficit-grows.html
Poland plans to cut renewable-energy
subsidies after an economic slump boosted the  budget deficit ,
the deputy economy minister said.  Jerzy Pietrewicz, who was named to his post in February,
said he’s updating proposals set out in a renewable-energy draft
law in October. They’ll be combined with a “more balanced
economic approach” to energy, emphasizing wind and biomass
plants while keeping a lid on solar photovoltaic, he said.  “We don’t plan a retreat from support, but we see that
progress in technology allows us to reduce rates proposed
earlier,” Pietrewicz said in his first interview on renewables
since taking office.  Prime Minister Donald Tusk’s government is attempting to
ease jumps in power prices while complying with European Union
rules and a court decision requiring it to adopt incentives for
renewables.  Poland , which produces 90 percent of its electricity
from coal, aims to expand the amount of energy it derives from
cleaner sources to 15 percent by 2020 from about 2 percent now.  Tusk’s cabinet will vote today on amendments to the new
energy law to avoid EU penalties. A final draft is expected by
Pietrewicz this half after lawmakers proposed a system of feed-
in tariffs granting premium rates for clean-power generators.
The program would lock in payments for smaller projects,
establish a tradable green-energy certificate system and set up
a stabilization fund to maintain the value of those securities.  Budget Crunch  Poland estimates that the cost of state support for
renewables will rise to 10.8 billion zloty ($3.4 billion) in
2020 from 5.5 billion zloty in 2014. The government budget
deficit in the first quarter widened to 25 billion zloty, the
most in a decade.  Subsidy cuts in Poland follow similar reductions in  Spain ,
 Italy ,  Germany ,  France  and the  Czech Republic , which are
attempting to contain booms in solar-panel installations and
stem gains in consumer power bills following the introduction of
feed-in tariffs.  “Poland should definitively learn the lessons from Spain
or the Czech Republic examples, where support for large solar
farms resulted in serious problems,” Anna Czajkowska, a London-
based policy analyst for Bloomberg New Energy Finance, said
today. “Even German transmission networks struggle with the
recent increase of solar-power generation.”  EU Deadline  The  European Court  of Justice on March 21 faulted the
Polish government for failing to pass legislation in time for an
EU deadline.  “Our intention is to design a good solution among a mosaic
of interests which vary,” Pietrewicz said. “We understand
investors need stability and predictability.”  The feed-in tariffs will pay out at fixed rates over 15
years for existing plants. The tariffs will be reviewed every
year or two, with new rates applying only to new installations,
the minister said.  The planned stabilization fund, designed to intervene in
the green-certificates program, will take contributions from
market participants and needs to be at least 300 million zloty
to function properly, he said.  That’s similar to the monthly turnover in certificates on
the Towarowa Gielda Energii power exchange, known as PolPx,
according to Pietrewicz, who said the government has “started
to discuss the idea with the market and see positive
reactions.”  Price Declines  The  price  of certificates has dropped 34 percent this year
to 119.3 zloty a megawatt-hour, reaching a record-low on Feb.
14, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The stabilization fund will help to protect investors
against price declines, according to BNEF’s Czajkowska. “It is
an important proposal and a step in the right direction,” she
said by e-mail. “We need to wait for details to fully assess
the idea.”  Support for existing biomass co-firing projects, Poland’s
most popular renewable-energy source, will be maintained until
2017. Polish  power plants  doubled their biomass burning from
2006 to 2011, resulting in a jump in prices for the fuel,
according to data from the  Economy Ministry .  “Old regulations created a significant market for biomass,
which dominated renewable energy,” Pietrewicz said. Poland
wants more “diversified generation,” according to the
minister, who said efficient co-generation as well as small
installations will keep subsidies. “We want to give the
business time to find alternative ways to use biomass.”  Wind Energy  Wind power should become the “base” renewable source,
weaning the nation away from its dependence on coal, Pietrewicz
said. Wind capacity grew 55 percent last year to 2.5 gigawatts,
according to the Polish energy-market regulator, while  Iberdrola
SA (IBE)  of Spain and  Denmark ’s Dong Energy A/S sold their Polish
assets in February to local utilities  PGE SA (PGE)  and Energa SA.  The minister brushed aside the suggestion that there’s a
risk more investors will sell. “We still see potential for
Polish shipyards that are suppliers for offshore wind farms,”
he said.  For solar energy, the government plans to encourage smaller
projects while limiting support to large plants.  According to the October draft law, rooftop installations
of less than 10 kilowatts would get 1.30 zloty a kilowatt-hour,
while those of 100 kilowatts would get less than 1.15 zloty, or
almost double the rates in Germany. Projects on the ground would
get 1.15 and 1.10 zloty, respectively.  Large solar plants will initially qualify for as many as
2.85 green certificates a megawatt-hour over 15 years.  “Large photovoltaic farms are actually the expensive
source of energy,” Pietrewicz said. “We want to wait until it
gets cheaper to fund such types of investment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Konrad Krasuski in Warsaw at 
 kkrasuski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David McQuaid at 
 dmcquaid1@bloomberg.net  