-- Puda Coal Investors Sue China’s Citic Over Unit Transfer
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-04-10T04:18:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/puda-coal-investors-sue-chinese-private-equity-fund-citic.html
A  Puda Coal Inc. (PUDA)  investor sued a
unit of Citic Group Corp., one of  China ’s biggest state-owned
companies, claiming it conspired with Puda’s chairman to
transfer control of the company’s most-important asset to
insiders, leaving Puda an empty shell company without operations
or revenue.  After transferring the company, Shanxi Puda Coal Group Co.,
Puda sold shares to investors who lost hundreds of millions of
dollars when the fraud became public, the investor, Thomas
Tarsavage, said in a complaint filed April 8 in  Manhattan 
federal court.  “Puda insiders improperly transferred the company’s only
revenue-producing, operating subsidiary to Citic and then, with
the assistance of Citic, falsely portrayed to investors in Puda
that the company still possessed its operating subsidiary,”
Tarsavage claimed.  Tarsavage seeks to represent a class of investors who
acquired Puda stock and options from July 15, 2010, to Oct. 3,
2011. The suit also contains a so-called shareholder derivative
claim on behalf of Puda.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission last year sued
Puda Chairman Ming Zhao and former Chief Financial Officer
Liping Zhou over the transactions.  The SEC in 2011 cautioned investors about buying shares in
companies that gain listings on U.S. exchanges through so-called
reverse mergers, saying they may be prone to fraud.  A Citic Trust spokesman couldn’t be reached after regular
business hours yesterday for comment on the lawsuit.  The case is Tarsavage v. Citic Trust Co., 13-cv-02312, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  