-- Putin’s Central Bank Pick Avoids Kuroda-Style Revolution
-- B y   O l g a   T a n a s   a n d   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2013-04-10T09:03:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/putin-s-central-bank-pick-keeps-clear-of-kuroda-style-revolution.html
Elvira Nabiullina is declining to
follow in the footsteps of  Mark Carney  and Haruhiko Kuroda and
become an agent of change at  Russia ’s central bank.  Nabiullina, backed by lawmakers to become the first woman
to head a Group of Eight monetary authority in June, pledged
continuity yesterday and deflected calls from commercial lenders
for cheaper cash. President  Vladimir Putin  on April 7 said the
country, where most people say the cost of living is their
biggest concern, will keep moving toward formally targeting
inflation with his former economic aide at the helm.  Nabiullina, 49, moved quickly to defuse a debate among
politicians about Bank Rossii’s mandate, signaling that she
would prolong outgoing Chairman Sergey Ignatiev’s mission to
rein in inflation even as the economy loses momentum. That
stance sets her apart from the new leaders of global monetary
policy including Carney and Kuroda, who advocate a more
ambitious approach to stimulate growth.  “Experience shows that continuity and predictability in
policy are important factors for trust,” Nabiullina told
lawmakers yesterday. “And in this area, sharp moves are
impossible.”  The first change of leadership in more than a decade at
Bank Rossii, which controls the world’s fourth-largest reserves,
comes amid unprecedented easing at the world’s four biggest
developed-market central banks as the U.S. Federal Reserve, the
 Bank of Japan , the  European Central Bank  and the  Bank of England 
all work to boost their economies.  Balance Sheets  The Fed’s balance sheet under Chairman  Ben Bernanke  has
reached a record $3.2 trillion, more than triple its size in
2007. ECB President  Mario Draghi  has pledged to do everything
needed to defend the euro.  In the U.K., Carney’s arrival at the BOE in July coincides
with a drive by the government to make the central bank’s remit
more flexible. BOJ Governor Kuroda last week announced a plan to
purchase 7.5 trillion yen ($75.8 billion) of bonds and double
the monetary base in two years.  While Kuroda joined Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s battle
against 15 years of deflation, Nabiullina arrives with inflation
that was 7 percent in March, remaining above the 6 percent upper
edge of the central bank’s target range for a seventh month. The
rate will fall to 5.9 percent in the fourth quarter, the median
estimate of 17 economists in a Bloomberg survey shows.  Easing Starts  Still,  inflation  is on a downward trajectory and fourth-
quarter gross domestic product rose 2.1 percent from a year
earlier, the weakest pace since a 2009 recession. That’s
strengthening the case for looser policy even before Nabiullina
takes over the central bank’s leadership.  Investors are betting on rate cuts, regardless of the
change. The  three-month MosPrime rate , at which large Moscow
banks say they’re willing to lend to one another, may fall 20
basis points, or 0.2 percentage point, from 7.24 percent over
the next three months, according to forward-rate agreements
tracked by Bloomberg.  Monetary easing has started in Russia, the biggest
emerging-market economy to raise borrowing costs last year. Bank
Rossii cut some less-used  interest rates  last week, in what
Ignatiev said was a first step toward lower borrowing costs.  “We’re expecting balanced policy, meaning she’ll be
focused on containing inflation, since that’s the central bank’s
main job,” Mikhail Zadornov, a former finance minister who was
also considered for the job, said in an interview. “The central
bank definitely won’t forget about economic growth, either.”  Tasks ‘Set’  Nabiullina, who served as economy minister in Putin’s
government from 2007 to 2012, has so far indicated caution
toward an expanded mandate for Bank Rossii.  While the government and lawmakers are debating whether the
central bank should have formal responsibility for ensuring
economic growth, Nabiullina on April 3 told a parliamentary
committee that the central bank’s “main tasks have been set”
and that policy makers should operate “in accordance with those
tasks.”  Most Russians named rising prices as their biggest concern,
topping corruption and poverty, in a February poll by the
Moscow-based Levada Center. Combating inflation is the
government’s top priority, even at the expense of short-term
growth, Putin told a conference in Moscow on Oct. 2.  Russia’s “ruling elite may be more interested in an
independent central bank that keeps inflation low,” Tatiana Orlova, a strategist at  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  in
 London , said in an e-mail. Promoting “growth at the cost of
higher inflation could further decrease its popular support.”  ‘Very Conservative’  Nabiullina, from the city of Ufa by the Ural mountains
where  Europe  turns into  Asia , became a deputy to then-Economy
and Trade Minister Herman Gref, now chief executive officer of
Russia’s largest lender  OAO Sberbank (SBER) , as Putin appointed fresh
faces upon coming to power in 1999.  She joined the government after a stint as deputy chief
executive at Promtorgbank, her only job in the banking industry
amid a career spent in the government and at lobby groups. She
will probably be “very conservative” at the central bank, said
Kakha Bendukidze, a Georgian banker and former government
minister, who hired Nabiullina at Promtorgbank in 1998.  “She knows that there is no way to help growth using
monetary policy, it’s a deadlock,” Bendukidze said in a
telephone interview April 4. “She is very smart and well
balanced, with a big understanding of how economics work.  Concerns that her background might lead to a
‘‘politicization’’ of the central bank have eased, according to
Jacob Nell, chief economist for Russia at Morgan Stanley.
‘‘Although I think there’s every reason to think that Nabiullina
will prove to be an effective and credible central banker, she
still has to earn that credibility,’’ he said by phone.  Nabiullina said the ‘‘excessive availability’’ of loans
could threaten the creation of bubbles. The central bank ‘‘can’t
risk’’ its previous achievements on inflation and economic
stability, even as it keeps the ‘‘needs of economic growth and
employment’’ in mind, she said in parliament.  ‘‘Nabiullina won’t go to the central bank with the goal of
getting the printing presses running,’’  Alexander Voloshin , a
former chief of staff to Putin, told reporters April 5. ‘‘It’s
clear that it doesn’t really fit into the way she sees things.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Olga Tanas in Moscow at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  