-- Putin’s Comedy Act Wins Russia No Friends
-- B y   L e o n i d   B e r s h i d s k y
-- 2013-04-09T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/putin-s-comedy-act-wins-russia-no-friends.html
Russian President Vladimir Putin’s
attempts at comedy have never been particularly endearing.
Lately, they’ve been bad enough to turn the country into a
pariah state.  This week, Putin embarked on a European image offensive
against a background of creeping repression at home, as
government agencies started implementing a law requiring
nongovernmental organizations that receive foreign money to
register as “foreign agents.” Amnesty International and 42 other
organizations received visits from law-enforcement officials.
One group -- Golos, known for its efforts to expose electoral
fraud -- was charged with violating the law.  The crackdown, which Golos head Grigory Melkonyants called
a “political contract hit,” prompted the aging rocker Mark Knopfler, founder of the group Dire Straits and an Amnesty
International supporter, to cancel upcoming concerts in Moscow
and St. Petersburg.  “I have always loved playing in Russia and have great
affection for the country and the people,” Knopfler  announced  on
his fan site. “I hope the current climate will change soon.”  Knopfler’s decision elicited a mixed reaction. “Thank you
for the support of human rights organizations,” anti-Putin
activist Oleg Kozyrev commented on Knopfler’s site. “Actions
like this are very important to us here.” Russian crooner Iosif Kobzon, who has managed to remain friendly with government
officials since Leonid Brezhnev’s time, was enraged. “Who the
hell is he? It would mean something if, say, Elton John canceled
his shows,” he  said . “I have never canceled anything in protest
and I don’t recommend that others do it.”  Putin might have done well to follow Knopfler’s example and
cancel his own tour. In Hanover, as Putin and German Chancellor
Angela Merkel inspected the Volkswagen display at the fair, a
group of women from the Ukrainian action group Femen  broke
through  the security cordon and took off their clothes,
revealing anti-Putin slogans. Presidential bodyguards quickly
pulled them away.  Russian observers found the setup in Hanover highly
suspicious: Putin’s security at home and abroad is usually so
tight that there is no way to get so close to him. “I know from
experience how the president’s personal bodyguard works,”
photographer and blogger Rustem Adagamov  wrote  on Facebook. “I
suspect they were allowed to do this and the situation was
totally under control.”  Putin milked the incident for all it was worth. “I liked
it,” he said in Hanover,  according  to the RIA Novosti news
agency. “Thank the Ukrainian girls for helping promote the
fair... I didn’t really hear what they were yelling because the
security guards were so tough. Those big guys manhandling the
girls. I think this is wrong, they could have been more gentle.”  Later in Amsterdam, Putin changed his position. “I had not
had breakfast that morning,” he  told  reporters. “If they had
showed me a sausage, that would have made me happy, but those
delights they demonstrated did not.” He added: “Thank God gays
did not undress.”  Putin might have been trying to ease the international
tension surrounding a bill making its way through the Russian
parliament that would ban “homosexual propaganda,” but his
various remarks during the trip only managed to alienate the gay
community. “We need to achieve a consensus with that community
and agree to work together,” he  said . “But you will agree that,
after all, same-sex marriages do not produce children.” He went
on to explain that in the Russian provinces, the majority would
never support gay marriages, and in places such as Chechnya
“there would be casualties” if they were allowed.  Putin’s remarks about the non-governmental organizations
were similarly snide. In an interview with ARD television before
his trip, he said that in the last four months, 650 Russian
nongovernmental organizations had received almost $1 billion in
foreign funding -- a number Russian activists found absurdly
high. “This money, no small amount, could be used to help
problem countries such as Cyprus,” the Russian leader  said .
“Then there would be no need to rip off the unfortunate
depositors.”  Putin’s malicious sense of humor is well known to Russians
and many foreign journalists. At home, it has its fans. But at a
time when a long list of celebrities such as Knopfler and
Madonna are condemning Putin’s repressive policies, his
traveling comedy show hardly helps  Russia  clean up its
international reputation. The only question is whether he is
simply unaware of his boorishness, or he is doing it on purpose.  (Leonid Bershidsky, an editor and novelist, is Moscow
correspondent for World View. Opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:  bershidsky@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article: Mark
Whitehouse at  mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net . 