-- Qantas Targets Hong Kong Approval for Budget Airline by Year End
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-04-09T01:33:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/qantas-targets-hong-kong-approval-for-budget-airline-by-year-end.html
Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN)  expects to get
approvals to start a budget carrier out of Hong Kong by the end
of the year as Australia’s biggest airline seeks to tap travel
demand in China with its low-fare unit Jetstar.  Jetstar Hong Kong, set up in partnership with  China Eastern
Airlines Corp. (670) , will focus on flying to secondary Chinese
cities, Qantas Chief Executive Officer Alan Joyce said in a
Bloomberg Television interview at the Boao Forum in Hainan,
southern China on April 7. The airline will have about 18
aircraft, he said.  The first Hong Kong-based budget airline will help Qantas
challenge  Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. (293)  for passengers in the
financial hub as Joyce tries to turn around unprofitable
international operations. Airlines in  China  carried 319 million
people last year, a number Jetstar had previously predicted
would more than double to 800 million by 2020.  “We’ve a successful model with Jetstar out of Singapore
going into a lot of secondary cities in China and we think
that’s where the focus of this expansion with China will go,”
Joyce said. “The scale of such cities are massive, and there is
huge population, and a huge potential to get people there.”  No budget carrier has a hub at Hong Kong Airport. Hong Kong
Express, an affiliate of Hong Kong Airlines, has said it will
convert to a low-cost model. Oasis Hong Kong Airlines Ltd.,
which operated budget long-haul flights, collapsed in 2008 after
racking up losses of about HK$1 billion ($129 million) in less
than two years.  Qantas and  Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA)  are among carriers that
have started low-fare airlines to tap the boom in  air travel 
amid economic growth in China, India and Southeast Asia.
Singapore Airlines started Scoot and is the largest investor in
 Tiger Airways Holdings Ltd. (TGR)  Scoot and Tiger both fly to China.  “China is a very important market for the group,” Joyce
said. Qantas has expanded its China operations, he said.  Qantas said in February it reduced losses at its
international unit by 65 percent in the six months ended
December after dropping unprofitable routes and retiring older
planes.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Stephen Engle in Beijing at 
 sengle1@bloomberg.net ;
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  