-- QPR Faces Offseason Player Clearout If Relegated: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-04-09T10:21:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/qpr-faces-offseason-player-clearout-if-relegated-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  QPR Faces Clearout  Queens Park Rangers Chairman Tony Fernandes will order a
major clearout at the end of the season if the team is relegated
from the Premier League, with fan favorite Adel Taarabt among
those likely to be sold, the  Daily Mirror reported .  As many as nine other first-team squad members could also
leave the west London club in the offseason as it seeks to slash
its wage bill, the Mirror added.  Remy Suitors  Tottenham Hotspur is among a group of Premier League clubs
that would consider triggering France striker Loic Remy’s
release clause of 8 million pounds ($12.2 million) if QPR drops
to the Championship, the  Guardian reported .  Manager Harry Redknapp said he wants to stay in the event
of relegation, the Guardian added. With six matches to play, QPR
is one place off the bottom and seven points behind Wigan and
Sunderland. Three teams go down at the end of the season.  Capel Competition  Liverpool faces opposition from Marseille in its bid to
sign Sporting Lisbon winger Diego Capel, who’s rated at 10
million pounds, the  Daily Mirror reported .  Spain international Capel, 25, started his career in
Barcelona’s academy program before moving to Sevilla and then to
Portugal, the newspaper added.  Benteke Contract  Aston Villa striker Christian Benteke will open contract
talks this week to remain at the club providing it stays in the
Premier League, the  Daily Mail reported .  The Belgian has scored 19 goals for Villa since joining
from Genk in August and is a target for Tottenham, Liverpool and
Arsenal, the newspaper added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  