-- Quinpario: More Chemical Companies Need `Reinvigoration'
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2013-04-09T20:05:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/quinpario-more-chemical-companies-need-reinvigoration-.html
Quinpario Partners LLC , a private-
equity fund seeking changes at  Ferro Corp. (FOE)  and Zoltek Companies
Inc., expects to take active stakes in more chemical and
materials companies needing “reinvigoration,” Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer Jeffry Quinn said.  Quinpario, founded in July by former executives of chemical
maker Solutia Corp., is seeking opportunities with strategic
partners to invest “several hundred million” dollars, Quinn
said in a phone interview yesterday. The St. Louis-based
investor has bought equity and debt in fewer than a dozen
companies, mostly passive stakes, he said.  Quinpario emerged as an activist on Jan. 24 when it
announced plans with FrontFour Capital Group LLC to challenge
three incumbent Ferro directors for their seats. In March,
Quinpario revealed a 10 percent stake in Zoltek and an effort to
oust the board. Quinn, 54, said he expects to invest in more
“underperforming” chemical and materials companies.  “There are a number of companies in the small and midcap
areas that need reinvigoration, that need an injection of
perspective and talent,” Quinn said. “There is a pretty rich
menu of opportunities out there that we will be considering.”  Quinn declined to say how much Quinpario manages. The fund
currently invests its partners’ money and its investment focus
is on composite materials, films and packaging, ceramics,
plastics, resins, electronic chemicals and specialty fluids.
It’s also interested in alternative energy and storage.  “The idea in Quinpario is to assemble a group of actively
managed portfolio companies,” Quinn said. “My partners and I,
we are operators. We are guys that ran Solutia for a decade.”  Solutia Partners  Quinn was CEO of Solutia, the former chemical business of
 Monsanto Co. (MON) , from 2004 until he sold it last year to  Eastman
Chemical Co. (EMN)  for $4.65 billion including debt. He led the
company through  Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection  in 2008.  The five other partners in Quinpario are Paul J. Berra III,
who was Solutia’s general counsel; Nadim Z. Qureshi, former head
of strategy; D. John Srivisal, who led mergers and acquisitions;
Richard N. Altice, former president of technical specialties;
and A. Craig Ivey, former president of performance films.  “We are investing our own capital and seeking long term
returns above what we can get otherwise in the marketplace,”
Quinn said. “I’m looking for companies that are not doing the
job in terms of creating value for shareholders.”  Quinpario offered to acquire Zoltek, which makes carbon
fiber for windmill blades, for a share price in the “mid-
teens,” the company disclosed on March 4. The offer was
rebuffed, prompting it to request a special meeting of
shareholders to replace Zoltek’s board with its own nominees.  ‘Strategic Alternatives’  Zoltek said on April 2 it had hired JPMorgan Chase & Co. to
explore “strategic alternatives.” Quinpario has agreed to not
move forward while private discussions continue. Zoltek rose 3.2
percent to $13.08 at the close in  New York . The shares have
gained 41 percent since Quinpario disclosed its offer.  At Ferro, managers of the Mayfield Heights, Ohio-based
company agreed this year to sell units that make solar paste and
pharmaceutical units after Quinpario recommended the moves in
January. The deals were “too little, too late,” Quinn said.
Quinpario and its partners own about 4.3 percent of Ferro, based
on a March 28 filing.  Quinn said Ferro made a “regrettable and egregious”
decision to reject takeover talks with A. Schulman Inc. Schulman
on March 4 offered to buy the maker of chemicals used in
electronics and coatings for $6.50 a share, a 25 percent premium
to the March 1 closing price. Ferro fell 1.2 percent to $6.69
today.  Ferro has said streamlining operations and focusing on the
most profitable units will provide better shareholder returns
than Schulman’s proposal. The company yesterday raised its 2013
earnings forecast and boosted its target for cost savings to as
much as $70 million next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  