-- Quit Blaming Europe for Bad Jobs News in the U.S.
-- B y   M e l v y n   K r a u s s
-- 2013-04-09T22:00:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/quit-blaming-europe-for-bad-jobs-news-in-the-u-s-.html
The timing of U.S. Treasury
Secretary Jacob J. Lew’s trip to  Europe  this week couldn’t be
better, given the extremely disappointing U.S. jobs report last
week showing that only 88,000 new positions were created in
March.  No doubt that’s a coincidence and the trip was long
planned. But Lew didn’t break with the script that his
predecessors have used on these jaunts to Europe, calling for
 Germany  to boost consumer demand. He, too, is treating the visit
as an opportunity to deflect attention back home from the real
causes of bad economic news in the U.S.  Timothy Geithner , whom Lew replaced, repeatedly used trans-
Atlantic visits to blame America’s jobless recovery on the
economic crisis in Europe -- especially in the run-up to last
year’s presidential election.  Similarly, when President  Barack Obama  prodded leaders,
including German Chancellor  Angela Merkel , to stimulate Europe’s
economy at the Group of 20 summit in  Mexico  last June, he knew
she wouldn’t do it. He was looking for a scapegoat for America’s
substantial economic problems.  Dangerous Idea  Lew, a close political confidant of the president, will
surely do the same -- or else people back home might get the
dangerous idea that his boss is responsible both for the bad job
numbers in March and the generally shabby state of the
employment market.  It is no great mystery why the U.S. job figures slumped
last month -- and it has little if anything to do with Europe.
The cause was Obama’s high-profile talk about the likely effects
of the budget sequestration, which scared the dickens out of
most Americans, including the U.S. business community.  Why take risks on new workers, when the president is out
there front and center with a megaphone predicting catastrophe
if the budget sequestration goes through?  Not smart. In an awkward attempt to blame the Republicans
for the unpopular across-the-board budget cuts, Obama put a lid
on the ability of the  U.S. economy  to create jobs. Now his
Treasury secretary will try to deflect the blame onto austerity
and slow growth in Europe.  Europe or no Europe, you don’t increase employment by
frightening the business community with political
scaremongering. Too often, political priorities have trumped the
requirements of  job creation  in Obama’s White House.  We saw the same thing in the debate over the “fiscal
cliff” last January. Because his political base wouldn’t go for
cuts in government expenditure, Obama signed on for a two
percentage-point increase in the  payroll tax , which is really a
tax on labor. It took until March for that move to affect the
job-creation numbers. Again, Europe had nothing to do with it.  U.S. Treasury secretaries have long come to Europe to
lecture, yet in recent years their dressing-down of counterparts
across the Atlantic has had something of a “kettle calling the
pot black” aspect to it.  Similar Problems  Yes, the U.S.  unemployment rate  at 7.6 percent may be the
envy of many Europeans, but that low number reflects people
giving up on the labor market after not finding a job. A
steadily declining U.S. labor-force participation rate explains
the low unemployment rate. It also hints at an emerging new
reality: The economic challenges and situations of the two great
trans-Atlantic regions are becoming strikingly similar.  Both Europe and the U.S. have substantial fiscal-
consolidation problems: The U.S. has a budget deficit of 6.7
percent of gross domestic product, and a debt pile that is 74
percent of GDP. For the euro area, those numbers are 4.1 percent
and 87 percent, respectively. Both have deep structural problems
that need fixing. And both suffer from political leaders who,
for domestic political reasons, are reluctant to take decisive
action to exit the crisis. Europe, at least, has Merkel, who is
forcing the fiscal-consolidation process in the rest of Europe.  On the monetary front, I expect Lew to put in his bid for
an interest-rate cut when he meets European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  in  Frankfurt  this week. He might get what
he wants in the not-too-far-distant future.  But heaven help the new U.S. Treasury secretary should he
ask Draghi to go for bond purchasing, which is money creation,
Ben Bernanke-style. That simply won’t happen. Everyone wants
everything from the ECB these days, and there is bound to be a
good deal of disappointment.  In that case, expect the U.S. administration to use
Draghi’s refusal to copy the  Federal Reserve  as yet another
excuse for those poor U.S. jobs numbers. There’s no end to this
blame game in sight.  (Melvyn Krauss is a professor emeritus of economics at  New
York  University and a senior fellow at the  Hoover Institution  at
 Stanford University . The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Melvyn Krauss at  melvynbkrauss@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Marc Champion at   mchampion7@bloomberg.net  