-- Rand Declines First Day in Five, Retreating From Five-Week High
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2013-04-09T08:09:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/rand-declines-first-day-in-five-retreating-from-five-week-high.html
The rand declined for the first time
in five days, retreating from a five-week high against the
dollar as South African companies took advantage of the
currency’s rally to buy dollars to pay for imports.  The rand depreciated 0.1 percent to 8.9997 per dollar at
9:33 a.m. in Johannesburg after advancing as much as 0.4 percent
in earlier trade to 8.9549 per dollar. Yields on benchmark 10.5
percent bonds due December 2026 were unchanged at 7.01 percent,
the lowest since February 2006, after falling 13 basis points
yesterday.  The currency climbed to its strongest level against the
dollar in more than five weeks in earlier today as monetary
easing from Japan to the U.S. sparked demand for high-yielding
assets including South African bonds. That provided an
opportunity for companies to buy dollars, said Mohammed Nalla,
head of strategic research at  Nedbank Group Ltd. (NED)  in
Johannesburg.  “At current levels we expect importers to take advantage
of” rand strength, Nalla wrote in a report e-mailed to clients
today. “Initially, we expect decent demand for dollars as the
local market takes advantage of the improvement in the rand.”  Nedbank sees the rand trading at 8.90 per dollar to 9.05
per dollar today, though the currency may resume gains and
advance to 8.85 after opening below 9 per dollar, he said.  Foreign Buying  Foreign investors  bought  a net 1.9 billion rand ($212
million) of South African bonds yesterday, adding to 5.4 billion
rand of purchases last week, the most since November, according
to JSE Ltd. data. Investors receive 479 basis points of extra
yield for holding South African 10-year bonds rather than U.S.
Treasuries. The premium has narrowed 16 basis points since the
beginning of last week.  “It was again a case of so much money chasing so few
assets,” Thando Vokwana, a fixed-income trader at Rand Merchant
Bank in Johannesburg, said in e-mailed comments. The rand
“looks set to push even lower” after breaching 9 per dollar
for the first time since March 1, he said.  The  Bank of Japan (8301)  said last week it will buy more longer-
term government bonds than forecast as part of its asset-
purchase program, European Central Bank President Mario Draghi
said monetary policy will remain accommodative, while the Bank
of England said it will continue buying assets. Fed Chairman Ben
S. Bernanke may push on with $85 billion in monthly bond
purchases through the northern-hemisphere summer as sluggish
jobs data adds to evidence of slower growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in Cape Town at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  