-- Transneft May Study Pipe to Vie for Rosneft Arctic Offshore Oil
-- B y   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n   a n d   J a k e   R u d n i t s k y
-- 2013-04-09T10:08:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/transneft-may-study-pipe-to-vie-for-rosneft-arctic-offshore-oil.html
OAO Transneft is ready to study
bringing  Russia ’s oil pipeline network to the Arctic offshore as
OAO Rosneft and  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  search for crude in the ice-
bound Kara Sea.  Extending a northerly Siberian pipeline to the Taz Bay to
take on Arctic offshore oil could be an option, said Igor
Dyomin, spokesman for Russia’s state-run oil pipeline operator.
While oil needs to be discovered first, the plan could offer an
alternative to export by ship, he said.  Rosneft, Russia’s largest oil producer, and Exxon plan
exploration wells next year in the Arctic offshore seeking to
prove that the virgin waters are an extension of Siberian
geology, where Russia produces more than 60 percent of its oil.  Temperatures dropping to minus 60 degrees centigrade and
ice more than 3 meters thick pose challenges to a preliminary
plan to load tankers for  Europe  near new field. Ice-class
tankers would make the 1,900-mile (3,057-mile) journey from the
Kara Sea to Rotterdam, accompanied by icebreakers when
necessary, according to a 2012  video  on Rosneft’s website.  Rosneft declined to expand on that plan. It is premature to
discuss transit prior to making a commercial discovery,
Rosneft’s press service said, responding to queries about
potential routes.  ‘Really Tough’  “The ice there is really tough,” Transneft’s Dyomin said.
Entering the Transneft pipeline network at a neighboring spot
could provide another option, he said.  Purpe-Zapolyarye, the pipeline that may be considered for
extension, could also give producers the ability of supply  Asia ,
as it will link to Transneft’s East Siberia Pacific Ocean
pipeline. Rosneft already plans to increase supplies to  China 
along this route.  The Moscow-based producer aims to more than double
shipments to the Asian nation in agreements running at least
through 2037, and according to a copy of the deal obtained by
 Bloomberg News .  The route may not be positive for preferred shareholders in
the state-run pipeline operator who want higher payouts,
according to Alexei Kokin, an oil and gas analyst at UralSib
Financial Corp.  “The more capital expenditure, the less hope for higher
dividends,” Kokin said. “I don’t see that as changing things
for the better, but the oil industry may benefit.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Bierman in Moscow at 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net ;
Jake Rudnitsky in Moscow at 
 jrudnitsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  