-- Trattoria Dumps Tomatoes to Protest Rousseff’s Inflation Stance
-- B y   J o s h u a   G o o d m a n   a n d   D e n y s e   G o d o y
-- 2013-04-09T15:45:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/trattoria-dumps-tomatoes-to-protest-rousseff-s-inflation-stance.html
One of  Sao Paulo ’s most traditional
Italian restaurants is urging its clients to forgo the tomato to
protest what it considers President  Dilma Rousseff ’s policy of
promoting growth at the expense of higher inflation.  Augusto Mello, owner  Nello’s Cantina , last month began
curtailing his tomato purchases to protest a tripling in prices
for the vegetable over the past year to 150 reais ($75) for a
20-kilogram crate. A sign on the entrance of the 38-year-old
restaurant urges patrons to become “conscientious consumers”
and help fight inflation by ordering dishes without red sauce.  The one-man crusade may be touching a nerve with consumers,
whose pockets are being squeezed by surging prices for food and
services. A report tomorrow will show that  inflation  breached
the 6.5 percent limit of the government’s target range in March
for the first time in 16 months, according to a Bloomberg survey
of economists, even as the economy struggles to regain its
footing after its second-worst performance in 13 years in 2012.  “ Brazil  grew less than 1 percent last year and inflation
is now sky high,” Mello, 49, said in an interview.  Rousseff, while visiting  South Africa , surprised investors
March 27 by saying she disagrees with anti-inflation policies
that sacrifice growth. While she distanced herself from the
comments six hours later, saying her comments had been
“manipulated,” the damage to the government’s inflation-
fighting credentials had already taken place.  ‘If 1 percent is all we’re able to grow without inflation,
then we have to be content with that,” said Mello, who since
his protest began has cut by half the roughly 900 kilograms of
tomatoes he buys weekly. “It’s not worth risking all the
progress the country has made recently.”  Rousseff’s office didn’t immediately return a phone call
and e-mail seek comment.  Inflation ‘Villain’  Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  last week repeated that the
“villain” behind persistently high monthly inflation readings
has been a weather-related spike in food prices that should
begin to ease as a result of a better harvest this year.  Food prices rose 10 percent last year, with a 141 percent
surge in manioc flour over the past 12 months exceeding all
items. Tomatoes, a staple of Brazilians, an estimated 25 million
who trace their ancestry back to  Italy , jumped 106 percent.  Excessive rain in some growing areas, and a decline in
prices last year that led some producers to plant other crops,
have spurred the rise in tomato prices.  Mello has never been one to hide his views when he sees
policy makers going soft on inflation. Five years ago he took
beef off the menu to protest a similar rise in meat prices.  Latest Stunt  His latest stunt has drawn 800 messages of support on a
Facebook page and spawned similar online protests.  In an April 6 post on a Facebook page spoofing the
president, a spurious Rousseff unveils her new  “My Tomato, My
Life”  policy, a play on the name for her hallmark housing
program, to guarantee that all Brazilians “can have beautiful
red Workers’ Party tomatoes for lunch.” The site has garnered
more than 260,000 views.  The real Rousseff may also be taking notice.  The government is studying a cut in import tariffs on
select items, including tomatoes, to contain price pressures,
Rio de Janeiro-based newspaper O Globo reported today. Imports
of processed tomatoes from  China  jumped 232 percent in the first
two months of the year compared with the same period of 2012, O
Estado de S.Paulo newspaper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joshua Goodman  in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 Jgoodman19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  