-- Rehn Says Italy Arrears Payment Won’t Jeopardize Deficit Targets
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2013-04-09T11:39:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/rehn-says-italy-arrears-payment-won-t-jeopardize-deficit-targets.html
Italy ’s plan to make 40 billion
euros ($52 billion) in arrears payments to private companies
won’t jeopardize the nation’s commitment to keep its budget
 deficit  within the European Union limit, EU Economic and
Monetary Affairs Commissioner Olli Rehn said.  “There is scope for a phased liquidation on this
commercial debt to enterprises without endangering the
sustainable correction of the excessive budget deficit,” Rehn
said in a speech via video link at a conference in Oslo today.
The repayment will “assist the economic recovery in Italy,” he
said.  In an effort to spur a rebound in the recession-hit
country, outgoing Prime Minister Mario Monti’s Cabinet approved
the payments to be carried out during the next two years. The
government has said it can still keep its deficit below the EU’s
limit of 3 percent of gross domestic product limit. Still, the
payout will further inflate the euro region’s second-biggest
 debt .  The plan was passed with the the economy mired in its
longest recession in two decades and after elections on Feb.
24-25 failed to produce a governing majority in Parliament.
Pumping the funds into the economy may help ease the
contraction, economists at Barclays Plc, said.  Effect on Debt  “We now expect real GDP contraction to be 1.5 percent this
year versus 1.7 percent previously projected and we look for
growth to rebound 1 percent next year from 0.8 percent
previously,” Barclays economist Fabio Fois and strategist
Giuseppe Maraffino write in a client note yesterday. “As a
consequence of the increase in the funding needs, we expect the
debt-to-GDP ratio to increase to 130.7 percent of GDP this year
and to 132.5 percent of GDP in 2014.”  The government did not provide any projection on debt when
it gave approval of the arrears payments on April 6. The
European statistics agency Eurostat will release the 2012 debt
data for member states on April 22.  EU leaders agreed at a summit last month on the need for
greater flexibility in the reduction of public deficits at a
time when most member states are in recession. “In many
countries the most powerful measure is to pay back the
arrears,” European Central Bank President Mario Draghi told
reporters in  Frankfurt  on April 4, without citing Italy.  “A similar initiative to pay 26.9 billion euros in arrears
in Spain last year helped boost GDP by 0.5 to 0.8 percentage
point,” Fois and Maraffino said. “We penciled in a potential
growth effect of 0.2 percentage point.”  The Italian government’s plan will not cover all the funds
it owes. Arrears totaled 91 billion euros in 2011, the Bank of
Italy said on March 28 and may have topped 100 billion euros in
2012, banking lobby ABI said last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  