-- Rio Tinto Says Mongolia Copper Production May Start in Summer
-- B y   M a t t   C r a z e   a n d   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2013-04-09T23:24:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/rio-tinto-says-mongolia-copper-production-may-start-in-summer.html
Rio Tinto  Group is aiming to start
commercial production at its Oyu Tolgoi copper project in
Mongolia in the northern Hemisphere summer as talks advance with
the government on permitting.  Rio Tinto is in a “clarification” process with the
government over the project that will be built over two stages,
Jean-Sebastien Jacques, head of the London-based company’s
copper unit, said yesterday in an interview in Santiago.  Oyu Tolgoi, whose development costs and schedule have been
the subject of debate in Mongolia, is the primary driver of the
country’s $10 billion economy and by 2020 is expected to make up
one-third of Mongolia’s gross domestic product. Rio controls 66
percent of the $6.6 billion project with the remainder
controlled by the government.  “Subject to ongoing support from the government we are
cautiously optimistic that we will have first commercial
production during the summer,” Jacques said. “There is no
dispute whatsoever as we speak.”  The mine in the South Gobi desert is operating on a month-
to-month budget and requires approval from the board of
directors. The board agreed on March 29 to continue to fund the
project through April, Mining Minister Davaajav Gankhuyag said.  Rio is positive on long-term prospects for the copper
market as  China  and developed nations continue to demand more of
the metal used in power cables and electrical wire and new
supply faces mounting challenges, Jacques said.  “People throughout the world want to have iPads and
iPhones and you need lots of copper to do so,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matt Craze in Santiago at 
 mcraze@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  