-- Russia Downplays North Korean Call to Evacuate as Deadline Nears
-- B y   S t e p a n   K r a v c h e n k o
-- 2013-04-09T11:28:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/russia-downplays-north-korean-call-to-evacuate-as-deadline-nears.html
Russia  is keeping its North Korean
embassy staffed with no additional security measures after the
Asian nation warned diplomats to leave by tomorrow, saying it
won’t be able to protect them while threatening nuclear strikes.  “We are working as normal, as we did a week ago,” embassy
spokesman Denis Samsonov said today by phone from Pyongyang.
“Everything that’s happening here at the moment is everyday
routine.”  North Korea  told countries including Russia to consider
evacuating diplomats from the capital by April 10 and said
foreigners in South Korea may be in danger. Tensions are
escalating after the communist nation threatened to wage a pre-
emptive nuclear war on the U.S. and  South Korea .  Kim Jong Un’s regime warned last week that “the moment of
explosion is approaching soon” and said it’s poised to conduct
a “smaller, lighter and diversified nuclear strike.”  The Group of Eight, whose foreign ministers meet in London
for two days starting tomorrow, rejects the confrontational and
“belligerent line” take by North Korea, Alexander Lukashevich,
a spokesman for Russia’s Foreign Ministry, said today, according
to a statement on its website. Russia opposes any mass military
buildup in the region and views any alternative to diplomatic
engagement as creating a “threat of profound shocks”
throughout Northeast Asia, he said.  The warning to diplomats in Pyongyang is part of “an
escalating series of rhetorical statements, and the question is
to what end,” U.S. State Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland 
told reporters in Washington on April 5. The U.S. is seeking to
ease tensions and can defend itself and allies,  Susan Rice , the
U.S. ambassador to the  United Nations , said April 6.  South Korea’s military saw no immediate signs of
North Korea making preparations for an attack, Defense Ministry
spokesman Kim Min Seok said today, a day after he confirmed the
North has been ready since February to conduct a fourth
underground atomic weapon test.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stepan Kravchenko in Moscow at 
 skravchenko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  