-- Sasol Says Plastics, Chemicals to Aid Profit at Louisiana Works
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n   a n d   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2013-04-09T21:54:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/sasol-says-plastics-chemicals-to-aid-profit-at-louisiana-works.html
Sasol Ltd. (SOL) , the largest producer of
motor fuel from coal, will profit from its investment of as much
as $21 billion in two new Louisiana plants by producing plastics
and chemicals, Chief Executive Officer David Constable said.  An ethane cracker scheduled for operation in 2017 will
expand the Johannesburg-based oil and gas company’s production
of ingredients for low-density and linear low-density
polyethylene, as well as chemicals such as monoethylene glycol,
used in antifreeze and polyester, Constable said today in an
interview after an investor presentation at the New York Stock
Exchange. Another plant will convert natural gas into diesel and
chemicals beginning in 2018.  Sasol is trying to lower construction costs after estimates
rose in December more than 50 percent to as much as $7 billion
for the cracker and $14 billion for the gas-to-liquids plant,
Constable said. Plans call for producing 1.55 million tons a
year of ethylene in 2017 and two 48,000 barrel-a-day fuel units
in service by 2019.  “The capex numbers we gave were feasibility-study
numbers,” Constable said. “They’ve got to be taken with a
grain of salt. They’re very, very conservative and they haven’t
been scrubbed or optimized.”  Sasol expects a final investment decision on the ethane
cracker in next year’s second half and a decision on the GTL
plant 18 months to 24 months later, he said. The GTL unit will
also produce paraffin, a chemical feedstock.  Hurdle Rate  More than 400 trillion cubic feet of U.S. gas can be
commercially produced at less than $6 per million British
thermal units, Sasol said today in its presentation to
investors. The fuel sold today for about $4, with future
contracts below $6 per million Btu through 2023, according to
 data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Sasol can produce gas at $4.50 per million Btu through a
joint venture with  Talisman Energy Inc. (TLM)  in Alberta’s Montney
Shale, Constable said.  “If you integrate the business models of the GTL and the
Montney upstream, you can still beat our hurdle rate at up to $9
per million Btu,” he said.  The company estimates that the GTL plant still offers at
least a 10.4 percent investment return if gas rises to as much
as $9 per million Btu.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Polson in  New York  at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net ;
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  