-- Saudis Save $1 Billion a Week as Egypt Counts Wheat, HSBC Says
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2013-04-09T07:08:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/saudis-save-1-billion-a-week-as-egypt-counts-wheat-hsbc-says.html
Oil-rich Gulf Arab countries, led by
Qatar and Saudi Arabia, are widening the wealth gap with the
region’s energy importers as political turmoil from Egypt to
Lebanon stifles economic growth,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  said.  The economies of Saudi Arabia, Qatar and Kuwait may expand
more than earlier estimated this year, HSBC said in a report
published yesterday. By contrast, the London-based bank revised
down forecasts for output in Egypt, Lebanon and Jordan.  “While Saudi Arabia adds $1 billion a week in savings,
Egypt is now counting its remaining wheat stocks,” Dubai-based
economists Simon Williams and Liz Martins wrote in the report.
“Widening surplus in the Gulf Cooperation Council contrasts
with painful deficit outside of it; rising growth contrasts with
slowdown and contraction.”  Gulf Arab states, sheikhdoms largely ruled by absolute
monarchs, have poured billions of dollars into their economies
to create jobs and stave off unrest that toppled governments in
Egypt, Libya and Tunisia. The disparity has undermined Egypt’s
political clout, as its government grew more reliant on aid from
countries such as Qatar to prevent an economic collapse.  The economy of Qatar, the world’s top liquefied natural gas
exporter, may expand 6.5 percent this year, HSBC said, revising
its estimate from 5.2 percent in the previous quarterly report.
“Government spending remains the primary stimulus for this
growth,” the economists wrote. The government plans to spend
$140 billion on infrastructure projects by 2019, three years
before hosting the soccer World Cup finals, Finance Minister
Yousef Kamal said last month.  Saudi Spree  Neighboring Saudi Arabia, the world’s biggest oil exporter,
is spending more than $500 billion on housing, roads, ports and
airports. The oil windfall has also helped the central bank
accumulate almost $650 billion in foreign assets, according to
the most recent official data.  Saudi economic output may expand 4.8 percent this year,
according to an HSBC forecast that was raised from 4.3 percent.
The kingdom may record a budget surplus equivalent to 6.4
percent of gross domestic product, compared with 7.1 percent in
Qatar and 31 percent in Kuwait, HSBC estimates. The growth
forecast for Kuwait was raised to 4.4 percent from 3.9 percent.  Egypt may post a budget deficit of about 11 percent of GDP,
HSBC said, as the economy weakens amid rising opposition to
Islamist President Mohamed Mursi, delays to loan talks with the
International Monetary Fund, and plunging  currency reserves .  Window Shut  “For post-revolution Egypt, the brief window of
opportunity for orderly political transition and economic
stabilization appears to have snapped shut, with substantial
further deterioration since our last quarterly,” Williams and
Martins wrote.  The economy may grow 1.4 percent in the fiscal year ending
in June, down from an earlier estimate of 2.1 percent, HSBC
said. Egypt’s economy  hasn’t expanded that slowly  since the
early 1990s, and it achieved average growth of 4.9 percent in
the decade before  Hosni Mubarak ’s overthrow in 2011, according
to the IMF.  HSBC also revised Lebanon’s growth projection down to the
same level as Egypt, as the country suffers from domestic unrest
and the spillover from war in neighboring Syria.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  