-- Saudi Arabia Warns Against Sending Money to Syria, SPA Says
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2013-04-09T17:39:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/saudi-arabia-warns-against-sending-money-to-syria-spa-reports.html
Saudi Arabia  warned its citizens
against sending money to  Syria  outside of government-approved
organizations, the state-run  Saudi Press Agency  said, citing a
statement from the  Interior Ministry .  Funds sent through unofficial channels may reach
“suspicious destinations,” the ministry said, without
providing further details. Saudi citizens may also be subject to
fraud if they donate money outside of authorized agencies, it
said.  Saudi Arabia is trying to prevent its citizens from going
to Syria or spending money outside official channels to help the
mainly  Sunni Muslim  rebels trying to overthrow the government of
President Bashar al-Assad. The fighting in Syria has evolved
along largely sectarian lines, with many in the Sunni majority
supporting the rebels while Assad draws support mainly from his
Alawite community.  The prospect of combat-trained Saudi militants returning to
the kingdom recalls the wars in Iraq and  Afghanistan . Saudis
with al-Qaeda links used skills developed there to attack the Al Saud family’s control of the world’s largest conventional oil
reserves, and its alliance with the U.S.  The numbers of Saudi men going to Syria to fight “aren’t
big,” Saudi Interior Ministry spokesman Major General Mansour
al-Turki told reporters today. Determining the number of Saudi
fighters in Syria was difficult, he said.  Citizens and residents can send money though the Saudi Red
Crescent Authority, the Muslim World League and the
International Islamic Relief Organization of Saudi Arabia, which
are the “official bodies authorized to provide assistance to
the affected Syrian people,” the ministry said. ’  The Saudi government started a telethon in July last year
to raise funds for Syrian refugees. It has also delivered aid to
camps in  Jordan .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  