-- Sberbank Dips Toe Into Asia Three Years After VTB: Russia Credit
-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 2013-04-10T07:57:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/sberbank-dips-toe-into-asia-three-years-after-vtb-russia-credit.html
OAO Sberbank,  Russia ’s largest
bank, is considering following rival VTB Group by borrowing in
Asia to explore new sources of funding.  State-run Sberbank is weighing a “modest issue” of
Singapore dollars and other Asian currencies this year,
Alexander Morozov, deputy chairman of the management board, said
in a phone interview on April 5. The extra yield investors
demand to hold the bank’s bonds due October 2022 over similar
debt sold by Turkish lender Turkiye Garanti Bankasi SA, ranked
the same at Fitch Ratings, fell nine basis points this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Lenders from junk-rated ZAO Russian Standard Bank to state
development bank VEB have issued debt this year in currencies
including the  yuan  and euro to expand their funding bases. While
Sberbank sold its debut bonds to international investors in
Turkish lira last quarter, VTB first sold securities in
Singapore dollars in 2010.  “Sberbank is trying to open itself new international
markets,” Dmitry Dudkin, head of fixed-income research at
UralSib Financial Corp. in Moscow, said yesterday by e-mail.
It’s also an “attempt to diversify the funding base to new
investors such as private banks and retail investors,” he said.  2013 Plans  Sberbank plans to issue less than last year’s total debt of
$9 billion in 2013, Morozov said. The bank, based in Moscow,
will consider tapping a program for 500 billion rubles ($16
billion) of domestic notes should there be demand, he said.  The ruble strengthened for a fifth day today, adding 0.3
percent against the dollar to 30.9160 as of 11:32 a.m. in
Moscow. The yield on local currency government bonds due June
2017 dropped two basis points to a record 6.01 percent. Russia’s
dollar bonds due in April 2042 yielded 4.46 percent, compared
with 4.85 percent at the end of last month.  VTB and OAO Russian Agricultural Bank, which both share the
state’s BBB investment-grade rating at Fitch, were joined in
selling yuan-denominated bonds in the first quarter by
billionaire Roustam Tariko’s Russian Standard. The yield on
VTB’s three-year yuan bonds due October 2015 has dropped two
basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, this year, compared with
a decline of 32 basis points for its debt denominated in
Singapore dollars and due July 2015.  VTB may return to debt in the Singapore dollar and the yuan
this year, the Prime news service reported on April 2, citing
Chief Financial Officer  Herbert Moos .  Investor Appetite  Investors are not focused on Russian debt in euros or
dollars, according to Andrey Lifchits, a money manager at
Spectrum Partners Ltd. in Cyprus.  “Asian investors can be more hungry,” he said in e-mailed
comments yesterday. “We have a real lack of liquid emerging-
market bonds in some Asian currencies.”  While Russian banks have issued debt in Singapore dollars
and yuan, no lender from the county has sold bonds in yen,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  OAO Gazprom (GAZP) , Russia’s
biggest company and natural gas exporter, sold a five-year bond
in the Japanese currency in 2007.  Demand for securities in Asian currencies depends on there
being a “deep institutional base,” Mikhail Nikitin, a senior
credit analyst at VTB Capital in Moscow, said yesterday.  “The market is not that deep and will not sustain bigger
demand without pushing the interest rate up,” he said by phone.  Yield Gap  The extra yield investors demand to hold Russian debt
rather than U.S. Treasuries fell three basis points to 187,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes. The difference
compares with 161 for debt of  Mexico  and 173 for  Brazil .  Russian credit-default swaps were little changed at 145
basis points, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The swaps
cost 11 basis points more than  Turkey , which is rated one step
lower by Fitch at BBB-. The contracts pay the buyer face value
in exchange for underlying securities or the cash equivalent if
a government or company fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  Sberbank is a “pick among eastern European credits,”
Enrico Zanollo, a managing director who holds Sberbank debt due
in 2013 at Granite Investment AG in Zurich, said in e-mailed
comments yesterday. Investors are interested in a further
diversified funding strategy, he said.  “I would not rule out interest in Sberbank’s issues in
Asian currencies like the Singapore dollar or Chinese yuan with
shorter or intermediate maturities,” Zanollo said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Sweetman at 
 msweetman@bloomberg.net  