-- Schaeuble Seeks to Explain Europe as Lew Urges Consumer Demand
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n   a n d   I a n   K a t z
-- 2013-04-09T10:23:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/schaeuble-seeks-to-explain-europe-as-lew-urges-consumer-demand.html
German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  sought to “explain” Europe to Jack Lew, as the new
U.S.  Treasury Secretary  prodded  Germany  to spur consumer demand.  Lew, in his first visit to Berlin since taking office Feb.
28, said that the U.S. and Germany shared the same stance on a
commitment to economic growth and to “fiscal discipline,”
while stressing at a joint press conference with Schaeuble today
that the U.S. seeks to balance the two to maintain the recovery.  “We need to balance policies of growth and investment in
the future with polices of fiscal consolidation,” Lew said when
asked what measures he would like to see implemented to help the
 U.S. economy . “The driver for economic growth will be consumer
demand and policies that help to encourage consumer demand in
countries that have the capacity would be helpful.”  An emerging recovery in the U.S. coupled with a global
effort to jump-start growth through monetary measures may be
weighed down by recession in the euro area, where unemployment
has reached a record 12 percent. U.S. officials including Lew’s
predecessor,  Timothy Geithner , have criticized the German-led
focus on scaling back public budgets to restore market
confidence damaged by the euro-area crisis that began in Greece.  “I have tried to somewhat explain the complicated
structures in Europe because we’re on a good track in Europe but
have difficult structures and decision-making processes,”
Schaeuble told reporters. “Nobody, also in Europe, sees this
contradiction between finance policy consolidation and growth.
We have the common position of a growth-friendly consolidation,
or sustainable growth, whatever you want to call it.”  Lew, who met with European Union officials in Brussels
yesterday and is due to travel to Paris later today to meet with
French Finance Minister  Pierre Moscovici , reiterated that the
U.S. has “an immense stake in a strong and prosperous  Europe .”  “With that in mind, Minister Schaeuble and I discussed our
common interest in strengthening global growth, advancing the
agenda for international regulatory reform and creating
additional opportunities for increased trade, investment and job
creation,” Lew said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Katz via 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  