-- Scotiabank to Focus on Integrating Foreign Takeovers
-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 2013-04-09T15:25:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/scotiabank-to-focus-on-integrating-foreign-takeovers.html
Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) , which made more
than 20 foreign acquisitions in the past five years, will now
focus on integrating the new businesses, said Dieter Jentsch,
group head of international banking.  “Not that there won’t be acquisitions, but certainly our
focus will predominantly be on organic growth,” Jentsch said in
an interview in Halifax, Nova Scotia, where Scotiabank is
holding its 181st annual meeting today.  Scotiabank, which operates in 55 countries, generates a
quarter of its consumer-banking  profit  from outside  Canada . Last
year, the international banking unit had net income of C$1.73
billion ($1.7 billion) and about C$7.2 billion in assets.  “We’re now at a capital-buildout phase of our bank,” said
 Jentsch , who took over the international post in November from
President Brian Porter. “With our acquisitions, it’s important
for us to fully integrate these platforms, get them to work the
way you want them to work.”  Integrating  acquisitions  can take two to four years
depending on the region and includes aligning company policies,
procedures and the products Scotiabank offers to clients, said
Jentsch, who was previously the bank’s executive vice president
in Latin America.  Canada’s third-largest bank will still consider “tuck-in”
acquisitions to add to where the bank already has operations,
particularly in Latin America, said Jentsch, declining to say
how much the bank would spend. The Toronto-based lender will
also look at larger deals, “but we’re not aggressively seeking
those,” he said.  Brazil  Scotiabank has been increasing its market share in
countries including Peru, Chile and  Mexico , where it offers
small loans to the “under-banked” population. Scotiabank is
unlikely to make acquisitions in  Brazil , Jentsch said.  “For us to buy something that would be meaningful in terms
of our personal and commercial platform, it would be almost too
big for us to swallow,” Jentsch said. “And quite frankly,
there’s nothing for sale.”  Jentsch, who travels between 2 1/2 weeks and 3 weeks a
month, reiterated that the bank doesn’t have a “strategic
focus” on acquiring a U.S. consumer bank.  In Asia, where Scotiabank operates in countries such as
 Thailand , the bank is looking at “continued growth in our
wholesale and our commercial-banking opportunities.”  Scotiabank is still awaiting regulatory approval from  China 
to close its C$719 million purchase of  Bank of Guangzhou ,
announced in September 2011. Jentsch said he expects a decision
on the deal by year-end and will be traveling to Asia this
month.  Profit Growth  “It’s a long process,” Jentsch said. “Patience is a
requisite in doing business there, and we have no new
information to add.”  At the annual meeting, Scotiabank Chief Financial Officer
Sean McGuckin reiterated that the bank expects to have 5 percent
to 10 percent  profit  growth this year.  Scotiabank rose 1.2 percent to C$57.73 at 10:48 a.m. in
trading on the Toronto Stock Exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  