-- SEC Money-Market Fund Proposal Two Months Away, Gallagher Says
-- B y   D a v e   M i c h a e l s
-- 2013-04-09T21:31:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/sec-money-market-fund-proposal-two-months-away-gallagher-says.html
New rules to reduce risk in money-
market mutual funds will be proposed in the next two months by
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, which won’t be
slowed by a leadership change, a commissioner said today.  Daniel M. Gallagher said the SEC’s staff is working through
technical details of the proposal, which failed to move forward
last year under former SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro . Gallagher
said he did not expect Mary Jo White, who takes over as chairman
this week and sets its agenda, to slow consideration of the
proposal, Gallagher said.  “It’s not going to be long now that we get the draft up
and start working through it and in the very near term have a
proposal,” Gallagher said in an interview outside of an SEC
conference in Washington.  The Senate confirmed White, 65, yesterday to join the
commission. Her views on money funds aren’t well known. At her
March 12 nomination hearing, White said any new regulation
should preserve the value of money-fund products for investors.  The SEC staff is considering the new regulations to reduce
the likelihood that investors pull their money from the funds in
a crisis, which could harm the broader credit markets. One
option would have money funds adopt a floating share price, a
move designed to make investors less sensitive to small
variations in the $1 share price.  The money-fund industry has said a floating-share price
would ruin the funds’ appeal. Allowing the share price to vary
also would create new tax liabilities for investors, who would
have to account for small gains and losses. The SEC has
discussed the tax issues with the  Internal Revenue Service .  Fluctuating Price  Gallagher said in September he would probably support a
fluctuating share price for money funds. In January, he said the
SEC would work to mitigate the tax implications for investors.  Regulators have worked to impose tighter restrictions on
money funds since the September 2008 collapse of the $62.5
billion Reserve Primary Fund. Its failure, caused by losses on
debt issued by Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., triggered a wider
run on money funds that helped freeze global credit markets.  The SEC has been readying its proposal as the Financial
Stability Oversight Council, a super-panel of regulators formed
by the Dodd-Frank Act, looks over its shoulder. The FSOC, which
is headed by the U.S. Treasury secretary, issued a report in
November that recommended several reform options, including a
floating share value and capital buffers.  Gallagher had predicted in January that the money-fund
proposal would be completed by the end of March, but said today
that the SEC staff was still working through technical details.  SEC Commissioner Elisse B. Walter, who will be replaced by
White as chairman, said today that she hoped the FSOC would wait
for the SEC’s proposal before taking any further action.  “Because we have made it clear we are moving ahead and we
expect to put out a proposal,” Walter said outside of the SEC
conference.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dave Michaels in  Washington  at 
 dmichaels5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  