-- SEC Proposes New Exchange Tests to Curb Computer Breakdowns
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2013-04-10T00:23:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/sec-proposes-more-exchange-testing-to-reduce-computer-breakdowns.html
U.S. exchanges and some brokers will
be required for the first time to conduct coordinated trading
tests to show they can recover from natural disasters or
terrorist acts, according to a  rule  proposed by regulators.  The mandate, called Regulation Systems Compliance and
Integrity, directs exchanges to strengthen their technology and
instruct member firms to participate in tests to show they can
sustain operations after a large disruption. The  rule  published
last month covers testing, disaster preparedness and software
development. It will govern 44 firms including 17 exchanges.  The Securities and Exchange Commission is seeking to limit
technology breakdowns at venues handling stock, options and bond
trades and ensure they can withstand malfunctions that could
jeopardize markets. Regulators wrote the 373-page rule, known as
 Reg SCI , after the May 6, 2010, flash crash when the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  plunged 9.2 percent before recovering, and
last year’s breakdowns that spoiled the initial public offerings
by Bats Global Markets Inc. and Facebook Inc.  “It’s a warning shot,” Matt Samelson, founder of research
firm Woodbine Associates Inc. in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said in
a phone interview. “The rule says generally firms need to have
more organization around how they’re administering and running
their systems and testing. They’re saying, ‘We’re watching you,
take notice, put your shop in better order.’”  Resources, Discipline  The SEC must have the resources and staff to apply the rule
uniformly, Samelson said. Initial compliance costs for
organizations subject to the regulation and those that must
conduct testing may be as high as $242 million, with another
$191 million in annual costs, the SEC estimated.  The regulation would apply to exchanges, clearinghouses, 15
alternative trading platforms including 10 dark pools, systems
that disseminate public quote and trade data, the Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority, the Municipal Securities
Rulemaking Board and others. Knight Capital Group Inc.’s loss of
more than $450 million on Aug. 1 when it accidentally spewed
orders in 150 stocks into the market drove the SEC to ask the
public if the rule should also apply to large brokers, market
makers and those handling retail orders.  Reg SCI will replace the SEC’s Automation Review Policy
guidelines, developed in 1989 and 1991 after the 1987 market
crash known as Black Monday, when the Dow average plummeted 23
percent. Codifying voluntary guidelines to ensure the resilience
of exchanges and the broader market and expanding them to larger
broker-owned dark pools will protect participants in the
complex, interlinked network of competing venues, the SEC said.  ’Technology 101’  Former SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  said in October that
trading breakdowns resulted from the failure of “basic
technology 101” rather than problems involving market structure
and the multiplicity of public and private venues that emerged
over the last decade.  “When you have a very interconnected set of executing
venues, it does offer the problem of a domino effect,” William
Adiletta, a partner at the technology practice at financial-
services consulting firm Capco in  New York , said by phone. “The
industry knows we have to improve the confidence of people in
our markets because of the failures we’ve had.”  The proposed rule requires firms to have written policies
and procedures to ensure that systems supporting trading,
clearing, order-routing and surveillance have sufficient
capacity and remain available to their users. The technology
must operate as intended, be secure from threats and promote
fair and orderly markets. A review must be done at least once a
year by objective personnel, the SEC said.  Stress Tests  Exchanges will be required to tell an average of 150 member
firms for the first time to participate in tests to make sure
that trading continues through a disruption or can resume after
a catastrophe such as a hurricane or terrorist act.  “This is part of making people understand it’s required,
like stress tests on banks,”  Larry Leibowitz , chief operating
officer of NYSE Euronext, said in a telephone interview. “We
have to prepare for the worst because when the worst happens and
you’re not prepared, it’s too late.”  The decision to close markets during superstorm Sandy
stemmed from concern that not enough firms had tested the New
York Stock Exchange’s backup plan and that many brokers needed
to run their own alternative plans to continue operating at the
same time, Leibowitz said. Contingency plans work better when
everyone isn’t implementing them at once, he said.  Backup Plans  Not all brokers and trading firms show the same commitment
to ensuring their execution and related systems are sound, Louis Pastina, executive vice president for NYSE operations, told the
SEC in an October roundtable discussion about technology. The
cycle of coding, testing and implementing software can vary
greatly by firm, he said.  “It’s amazing to me how many times software gets
introduced and firms don’t test with you,” he said at the time.
“Whether we have test symbols in production or we run industry
tests, it’s always the same firms that come in and test -- and
those are the firms that generally don’t have issues. There’s a
long list of firms that never show up.”  The rule will require firms subject to its authority to
alert the SEC of important system changes and events such as
disruptions, compliance issues and platform intrusions.
Exchanges and other parties must spell out corrective actions
and alert members about significant problems.  Hacker Intrusions  A delay would be allowed for some attacks, such as when
hackers penetrated computer systems owned by  Nasdaq OMX Group
Inc. (NDAQ)  in February 2011, if disclosure would increase the
exchange’s vulnerability, the SEC said. That event didn’t affect
 Nasdaq ’s trading computers, the regulator said.  There will probably be about 65 incidents a year that
organizations subject to Reg SCI must report to regulators and
14 excluding intrusions they must tell customers about, the SEC
said. The 28 firms in the Automation Review Policy inspection
program in 2011 told the regulator about 175 incidents that
year, or 6 each, it said. The new rule would expand the types of
incidents that must be reported and ensure greater consistency
by dictating what information must be shared.  “It gives us more certainty around gray areas in terms of
which systems are included and what conditions we must report,
not only to the SEC but also to customers,” Leibowitz said.
“As long as the reporting doesn’t become too granular and
remains primarily focused on trading technology, this is one of
those cases where more clarity is better.”  Compliance Costs  One-time compliance costs for the 44 organizations subject
to Reg SCI will be between $61.6 million and $176 million, with
annual costs between $48.7 million and $125 million, according
to the SEC’s estimates. Member firms and market participants may
have to spend a total of $66 million a year to participate in
business-disruption tests, the SEC said.  Reg SCI takes a step toward treating exchanges and private
alternative trading systems or ATSs more similarly, Justin Schack, partner and managing director for market structure
analysis at Rosenblatt Securities Inc., said by phone.  The proposed rule come as trading away from U.S.  stock
exchanges   reached  a high of 36.2 percent in the first quarter,
compared with 32.8 percent last year, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. More than 14 percent of overall trading took place
in dark pools in January and February, data compiled by
Rosenblatt showed.  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  and Nasdaq OMX executives have
said in recent years that dark pools should be subject to
regulation more akin to rules for exchanges.  Playing Field  “If you’re asking the ATSs to behave in some respects the
same way exchanges do, then the effect is a very small but still
significant leveling of the playing field,” Schack said.
Requiring dark pools to let subscribers know of similar types of
outages and technical problems makes sense, he said.  Broker-dealers with dark pools will find Reg SCI’s
requirements costly and broad, Robert Flatley, chief executive
officer of CoreOne Technologies, a data-services company in New
York, and former managing director at Deutsche Bank AG, said in
a phone interview.  “The comprehensive nature of this and the surveillance and
testing that will be required to put hand on heart and say,
‘We’re compliant with the policies and procedures’ will be
expensive and tough,” Flatley said. While higher costs may
limit the value of dark pools to their owners, those under the
sway of Reg SCI may be able to use their compliance as a
“competitive advantage” to gain more trading, he said.  Dark Pools  Dark pools will be subject to Reg SCI if they trade 5
percent of daily volume in a single stock and 0.25 percent of
total exchange-listed equities, or 1 percent of the average
daily dollar volume across equities. The thresholds apply if
reached in four of the previous six months.  The SEC said 10 dark pools would be subject to the
regulation, based on data for the week of May 7, 2012. Those
venues, including some that are larger than the smallest stock
exchanges, accounted for about 87 percent of the dollar volume
traded by alternative platforms that week, it said.  Platforms for equities not listed on exchanges will be
subject to Reg SCI if they reach 5 percent of the average daily
dollar volume. Two trading platforms meet the threshold, the SEC
said. Venues for municipal and corporate debt securities will
fall under the rule’s authority if they account for either 5
percent of average daily dollar volume traded or 5 percent of
the number of transactions daily. The same three alternative
trading systems would meet the volume threshold for municipal
and debt securities, the SEC said.  ‘Profit Engines’  Dark pools have become “profit engines” for their owners
in recent years, Flatley said. “Brokers must make a call. Do I
invest in having more compliance and monitoring of the systems
or do I just not hit those thresholds?”  Those with more than 1 percent of total U.S. equities
volume in February are owned by Credit Suisse Group AG, Goldman
Sachs Group Inc., Barclays Plc, and UBS AG, according to a March
25 report from Rosenblatt. Knight Capital Group Inc.’s Knight
Link, often called a dark pool, isn’t a registered ATS. It had
1.4 percent of total volume, the data show.  Fifteen U.S. pools tracked by Rosenblatt had more than 0.25
percent of volume traded in February. The company doesn’t
compile data on the value traded by those venues.  Dan Mathisson , head of U.S. equity trading for Credit
Suisse, declined to comment. About 123 million shares or 1.9
percent of U.S. equities volume changed hands in the Zurich-
based bank’s Crossfinder pool in February, Rosenblatt said.  Better Information  Bids Trading LP, which operates a dark pool, plans to
submit a comment letter to the SEC, according to New York-based
Chief Executive Officer Tim Mahoney. He said he’s not yet sure
whether Bids will be subject to Reg SCI and declined to comment
before the letter.  “It’s possible that some dark pools as they become subject
to Reg SCI are going to have to clean up or amend their Form
ATSs to make sure that what’s described actually reflects the
way the dark pools works,” Schack said about a document they
must submit to the SEC when they make material changes. “It
will give the SEC better information about them than they have
today, which would be good.”  Brokers including those running dark pools are already
subject to a so-called market-access rule introduced in 2011 to
reduce the risk of trading disruptions and improper activity.
While the requirements overlap with some mandates in Reg SCI
related to the integrity of technology systems, the SEC may push
compliance with the access rule toward what’s demanded under Reg
SCI, Flatley said.  850 Questions  Underscoring the breadth of the proposed rule, the SEC
asked the public for comment on more than 850 questions. It
asked whether NYSE should be allowed to offer firms a backup
plan to trade on the exchange that is significantly different
from its normal mode of operations. Questions ranged from
whether numerical thresholds are appropriate for specific types
of trading systems to whether the SEC should supply more precise
requirements on trading software development.  The SEC also wants to know if the rule should cover
security-based swap data repositories and execution facilities
under the SEC’s jurisdiction as the agency writes rules to move
more over-the-counter derivatives trades into clearinghouses.  “This is part of getting the whole ecosystem verified,”
Flatley said of Reg SCI. “There will be a lot of work but it’s
the right thing to do. If people want to get off the headlines
and stop explaining why things went bad, they’ll have to have
standards in the industry. It’s significant, but it’s time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson in New York at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net . 