-- Serbian Rate Outlook Mixed After Kosovo Accord Rejected
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2013-04-09T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/serbian-rate-outlook-mixed-after-kosovo-accord-rejected.html
Economists are split on whether
 Serbia ’s central bank will hold or cut rates after the nation
jeopardized its chances of joining the European Union by
refusing to sign a deal with the breakaway province of  Kosovo .  Twelve economists expect the Belgrade-based Narodna Banka
Srbije to leave the  one-week repurchase rate  at 11.75 percent,
according to a Bloomberg  survey . The same number of economists
predicted a quarter-point to half-point reduction. The central
bank will announce its decision at noon in Belgrade tomorrow.  “There’s a pure political risk at this moment which could
destabilize the market and that’s why we expect them to first
hold the rate and then start with cuts,” Ljiljana Grubic, the
chief analyst at Belgrade-based Raiffeisen Banka AD, said by
phone. “Cutting the rate now could trigger dinar volatility and
they will surely be careful about the timing, size and pace of
future cuts.”  Premier  Ivica Dacic ’s government rejected an EU-mediated
agreement on normalizing relations with Kosovo two days ago and
called for further negotiations, jeopardizing Belgrade’s drive
to start entry talks with the 27-nation bloc in June. Serbia
needs deeper EU ties after the wars of the 1990s stunted its
economy’s transition from communism.  The central bank paused its tightening cycle on March 12 to
assess price pressures before reducing borrowing costs to spur
growth after the economy fell into its second recession in three
years. The bank raised rates eight times in the previous nine
meetings.  ‘Every Reason’  Rate setters pledged on Feb. 13 to consider changes to
monetary policy as inflation pressures based on food and
regulated prices ease. Vice Governor Veselin Pjescic said the
current rate level is sufficiently restrictive as long as
current forecasts, including for an economic contraction of 0.1
percent and 2 percent inflation in the 17-nation euro area this
year, are met.  “Except for political circumstances, the central bank has
every reason to lower the  interest rate  because inflation has
not exceeded 0.5 percent per month for the past four months,”
Jasna Atanasijevic, chief economist at Belgrade-based Hypo Alpe-
Adria Bank AD, said by phone.  Serbia’s rate trend contrasts with others in the region,
where borrowing costs are falling to halt economic slowdowns
amid  Europe ’s debt crisis. The National Bank of Serbia wants to
ease price pressures stemming from regulated price increases and
expanded dinar liquidity.  “They will cut the rate because inflation has already
slowed and it will continue to ease in the next three months
because of cheaper agricultural products,” said Predrag Stojanovic, head of treasury at Belgrade-based Piraeus Banka AD.  Inflation has been accelerating since April 2012, when it
fell to a 30-year low of 2.7 percent, due to rising food costs
amid a drop in farm output. The rate reached 12.4 percent in
February and is expected to peak at 14 percent through April.
The central bank wants to bring it down to 4 percent, plus or
minus 1.5 percentage points, by December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  