-- Serb Premier Calls Day of Mourning After Gunman Kills 13
-- B y   M i s h a   S a v i c   a n d   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2013-04-09T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/serb-premier-calls-day-of-mourning-after-gunman-kills-13.html
Serbia  called a day of mourning for
the 13 victims of the deadliest peacetime shooting in the
nation’s post-Yugoslav history as police search for clues why
the 60-year-old army veteran went amok in a quiet village.  The gunman, Ljubisa Bogdanovic, remained in critical
condition at the Belgrade Emergency Center today, after he
allegedly murdered his son, mother and 11 others, then wounded
his wife and turned the gun on himself. Investigators haven’t
had the chance to question him on motive as doctors work to save
him from nine self-inflicted gunshot wounds to his head.  The killings in the hamlet of about 20 households an hour’s
drive from Belgrade is the third gun-related rampage in 11 years
for Serbia, a participant of the Balkan civil wars,  Europe ’s
bloodiest since the end of World War II. Prime Minister Ivica
Dacic will order flags at half staff and hold a moment of
silence as Serbians contemplate the violence, said government
spokesman Milivoje Mihajlovic.  “This is a great tragedy,” said Dacic yesterday during a
visit to Bosnia-Herzegovina, according to Sarajevo-based Vijesti
newspaper. “In recent years, there have been many cases of
family violence.” The government, meanwhile, said it
“expresses condolences and support to the families of the
victims.”  In 2002, an attacker killed seven and critically wounded
four others, and in 2007 a gunman murdered nine and wounded two,
according to the government. Even so, the numbers of murders in
Serbia have fallen in the past 15 years from 280 to 58 last
year. In 2011, the number dipped to 52, according to the
Interior Ministry.  Shooting Spree  In the latest incident, villagers were awoken before dawn
by the onset of the attack. Bogdanovic, according to witnesses
and police, first shot his son and mother dead with a pistol in
their home before attacking his wife. He then went from house to
house, shooting the other victims. All but two were relatives in
the community.  Hours after the rampage, five houses were were taped off.
Investigators are uncertain about the motive and were working to
piece together what happened by interviewing residents,
including his two surviving daughters, 39-year-old twins named
Zorica and Slavica, and taking eyewitness statements.  “This happened out of the blue just like any other mass
murder,” said Zorica Pavlovic, a local psychologist who helped
investigators at the scene and treated the daughters for shock.  Charges have yet to be filed against Bogdanovic as it is
unclear whether he would survive to face trial, said Dusica
Ristic, a spokeswoman from the Higher Court in Belgrade.  Police Probe  “At this stage, there is no court procedure and therefore
no legal representative,” said Ristic in a phone interview.
“This is all still being investigated by the police.”  Serbian National Police Chief Milorad Veljovic said
Bogdanovic had served briefly on the front lines during Serbia’s
war in the 1990s with  Croatia  following the dissolution of
 Yugoslavia . He didn’t say if he believed his actions were
related to his war service.  The Bogdanovic twins were spared because they live in
another village, though they visited their parents on the
previous day for lunch, according to an interview they gave to
Blic newspaper.  “Things were normal, and dad worked around the house and
felt well,” said Zorica. “He has never acted strangely, not
even after he returned from the front line.”  Stanica Kostadinovic, a villager who said police saved her
from the massacre, was alerted that something was amiss by a dog
barking. When police arrived, they warned Kostadinovic and her
family to remain in the house and began pursuing Bogdanovic, she
said.  “When the killer saw the police, he ran off to an orchard
and shot himself there,” she said. The Belgrade-based Interior
Ministry, in an e-mailed statement, confirmed Kostadinovic’s
account.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net ;
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  