-- Singapore Exchange Says Derivatives Trading Resumes After Glitch
-- B y   E l e n i   H i m a r a s   a n d   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2013-04-09T03:41:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/sgx-says-derivatives-market-opening-delayed-on-technical-issues.html
Singapore Exchange Ltd. (SGX) , the
operator of Southeast Asia’s biggest stock market, said it
resolved a technical glitch that delayed the trading of
derivatives until 10:45 a.m. local time.  The Nikkei 225 futures fell as much as 0.2 percent to
13,180 in Osaka while trading was halted in  Singapore . They
rebounded to 13,240 in Osaka and 13,240 in Singapore. The
exchange’s stock climbed 0.4 percent to S$7.73 as of 11:40 a.m.
in Singapore trading.  “The derivatives trading market is now open for trading in
all contracts,” the Singapore bourse said in a statement on its
website. “We will continue to monitor the system closely.”
Carolyn Lim, a spokeswoman for the exchange, declined to comment
on the details of the malfunction.  Market disruptions due to technical issues have been in the
spotlight since May 2010 when a broker’s algorithm set in motion
events that briefly wiped $862 billion from U.S. stocks. In
 Asia , about $10 billion was temporarily added to the Australian
benchmark stock index in October and two weeks earlier orders
for Indian stocks improperly entered by a Mumbai brokerage sent
the S&P CNF Nifty Index down 16 percent in eight seconds before
it rebounded.  Singapore Exchange ’s derivatives daily average volume rose
30 percent to a record 358,532 contracts in the second quarter
ended Dec. 31, it said in a Jan. 22 statement. Derivatives
revenue climbed 21 percent to S$45.7 million ($36.9 million) for
the quarter, making up 28 percent of total sales, it  said .  More Derivatives  Yuji Nakagawa, manager of derivatives trading at Toyo
Securities Co. in  Tokyo , said the delay may have contributed to
a decline when contracts opened in  Japan . “I get a feeling that
Nikkei futures in Osaka started trading a bit lower than
expected today because it didn’t have a catalyst with the
contracts not trading in Singapore,” he said.  Singapore Exchange will increase revenue from derivatives
10 percent to 15 percent this year as it introduces more
products linked to benchmark stock indexes in the region,
President Muthukrishnan Ramaswami said last month.  The bourse plans to add equity-index futures on the
Philippines and Thailand to offerings that include Nikkei 225
Stock Average and Indian contracts, he said. SGX is planning
 yuan  and foreign-exchange futures, as well as commodities
contracts as it seeks to become a trading hub, Ramaswami said in
the interview.  SGX AsiaClear, the world’s largest clearer of iron-ore
swaps, began a futures contract for the commodity yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eleni Himaras in  Hong Kong  at 
 ehimaras@bloomberg.net ;
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  