-- Shinwon Falls as North Korea Closes Joint Complex: Seoul Mover
-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n
-- 2013-04-09T01:20:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/shinwon-falls-as-north-korea-closes-joint-complex-seoul-mover.html
Shinwon Corp. (009270)  led declines among
companies that do business in North Korea after the communist
nation said it will suspend operations at a jointly run
industrial complex. South Korean defense shares rallied.  Shinwon, an apparel maker that operates a plant in the
complex, slipped 2.7 percent to 1,250 won as of 9:45 a.m. in
Seoul. Watchmaker Romanson Co. retreated 3.8 percent and  Good
People Co. (033340) , an underwear maker, fell 1.9 percent. The nation’s
 Kospi index  added 0.4 percent, snapping a six-day slide.  Workers are being recalled from the Gaeseong industrial
park and operations will be suspended indefinitely, the official
Korean Central News Agency said yesterday. North Korean
employees at the complex have not come to work, Yonhap News
reported today. Suspending work at the complex would eliminate a
source of hard currency for Kim Jong Un’s impoverished regime as
well as the last link of exchange between the two countries.  “Threats to suspend the Gaeseong project appears to be
North Korea’s ultimatum before taking any action,” Heo Pil Seok, chief executive officer at Midas International Asset
Management Ltd., which oversees about $5.4 billion, said by
phone in  Seoul . “But I don’t think this would have a big impact
on South Korean companies operating factories there because many
of them use the complex as a way of saving labor costs instead
of a key manufacturing base.”  Atomic Weapon  North Korea is ready to conduct a fourth underground atomic
weapon test at its Punggye-ri site, South Korean Defense
Ministry spokesman Kim Min Seok said yesterday. National
security chief Kim Jang Soo said the North may stage a
provocation including a ballistic missile test around April 10.  About 120 South Korean companies employ more than 53,000
North Korean workers at Gaeseong, located about 10 miles (16
kilometers) north of the demilitarized zone. The North generates
$100 million in profits annually from the joint project and
South Korea makes quadruple that amount, according to Yang Moo Jin, a professor at the University of North Korean Studies in
Seoul.  Victek Co. (065450) , a maker of electronic warfare equipment, jumped
6.1 percent, pacing gains among South Korean defense stocks.
 Firstec Co. (010820) , a maker of components for helicopters and armored
vehicles, rose 5.5 percent, while Speco Co. added 8.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  