-- Sistema May Spend $1 Billion More in India in Search of Profit
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2013-04-09T10:53:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/sistema-may-spend-1-billion-more-in-india-in-search-of-profit.html
Russian billionaire Vladimir Evtushenkov’s  AFK Sistema (SSA) , which has written off about a third
of its $2.8 billion investment in Indian mobile services, plans
to spend as much as $1 billion more to expand in the market.  The company’s Sistema Shyam TeleServices Ltd. unit plans to
make the investment through 2015, with $415 million being spent
this year, SSTL Chief Executive Officer Vsevolod Rozanov told
reporters in Moscow today. That includes interest costs, capital
expenditures, covering losses and possibly developing faster
wireless services using LTE technology, he said.  Sistema’s five-year campaign to benefit from growth in
 India ’s mobile-phone market has so far failed to add to  earnings 
amid intense competition. The India unit now projects operating
income before depreciation and amortization to become positive
in about two years, and it may consider market consolidation or
an initial public offering once profitable, Rozanov said.  SSTL’s fourth-quarter net loss narrowed to 7.79 billion
rupees ($143 million), the unit said today in a statement.
Sistema, which controls  Russia ’s largest mobile operator  OAO
Mobile TeleSystems (MBT)  or MTS, with 101 million users at the end of
2012, entered India five years ago via a joint venture with
local Shyam Group. The Russian government acquired a 17 percent
stake in SSTL two years ago.  Sistema, based in Moscow, fell 1.7 percent to 25.50 rubles
at 2:52 p.m. local time.  License Challenges  Last year, India’s Supreme Court canceled 122 permits held
by telecommunications operators in the country as the government
sought to auction these licenses again at a higher price, citing
corruption during their original allocation.  Sistema skipped a November auction, which collected less a
quarter of the government’s $7.3 billion target. It was the only
bidder in a repeated auction in March this year, when India
agreed to lower prices for the remaining spectrum. SSTL, which
earlier had a pan-Indian license, decided to stay in nine out of
22 regions, servicing 40 percent of the country’s population.  SSTL agreed to pay about $665 million for 20-year licenses
for 800 megahertz spectrum, Sistema said in March 11 statement.
The $297 million paid by Sistema in 2008 for the same licenses
will count toward the total and the remainder may be paid during
10 years starting in 2016, according to the statement.  Evtushenkov, with wealth valued at $6.7 billion by  Forbes 
magazine, made his money in telecommunications. MTS accounts for
about 36 percent of AFK Sistema’s revenue and 62 percent of the
company’s operating income before depreciation and amortization,
according to third-quarter  presentation . Sistema also controls
oil producer OAO Bashneft.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  