-- Slovenia Faces ‘Severe’ Banking Crisis in Recession, OECD Says
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2013-04-09T07:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/slovenia-faces-severe-banking-crisis-in-recession-oecd-says.html
Slovenia, hit hard by a boom-bust
cycle and the euro area’s debt woes, faces a “severe” banking
crisis if it doesn’t act quickly, the Organization of Economic
Cooperation and Development said.  The Alpine nation should recapitalize “distressed, viable
banks” while holders of subordinated debt and “lower-ranked
hybrid capital instruments should absorb losses,” the Paris-
based OECD said in a report today. State-owned banks such as
Nova Ljubljanska Banka d.d. and  Nova Kreditna Banka Maribor d.d. 
should be sold and non-viable banks should be wound down, it
said.  “Limited equity markets and the backlog in the
privatization program are hindering foreign direct investment,
whose increase would help smooth corporate deleveraging,” the
group of the world’s wealthiest countries said in the report.
“An agreement on a list of public assets to be privatized or
managed by a new sovereign holding is still lacking.”  Slovenian banks, burdened by rising bad loans and relying
on financing from the European Central Bank, are at the center
of investors’ worry the nation may follow Cyprus and other
peripheral nations to ask for an international bailout.  The nation’s three largest banks, Nova Ljubljanska, Nova
Kreditna and  Abanka Vipa (ABKN) , may need as much as 2 billion euros
($2.6 billion) of fresh capital, Fitch Ratings said April 5,
when it cut the ratings of five Slovenian banks and affirmed the
ratings of two banks with a negative outlook.  The budget deficit rose “significantly” during the
current economic downturn and restoring public finances has
proved “difficult,” contributing to tensions in the sovereign
bond market, the OECD said.  “With no policy changes,” public debt could double to
exceed 100 percent of gross domestic product, including the
expected costs of aging and rescuing banks, the OECD said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  