-- Soros Sees Germany in Recession by September Elections
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2013-04-09T17:28:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/soros-sees-germany-in-recession-by-september-elections.html
Germany ’s economy will probably be
in a recession by elections scheduled for the end of September
because monetary policy officials in the euro area aren’t
providing the necessary stimulus, said billionaire investor
 George Soros .  “Germany itself remains relatively unaffected by the
deepening depression that is enveloping the eurozone,” Soros
said in a speech at the Johann Wolfgang Goethe-University in
Frankfurt today. “I expect, however, that by the time of the
elections, Germany will also be in recession.”  European leaders are seeking to exit their debt crisis by
cutting spending while the European Central Bank has stopped
short of outright bond-buying programs like those in the U.K.
and U.S. Germany’s exports will probably suffer from lower
demand in  Europe  and a weaker yen as the  Bank of Japan  joins
peers in engaging in so-called quantitative easing, Soros said.  “The monetary policy pursued by the eurozone is out of
sync with the other major currencies,” Soros said. “The others
are engaged in quantitative easing. The  Bank of Japan (8301)  was the
last holdout, but it changed sides recently.”  The BOJ said last week it will double the monetary base by
the end of 2014 through purchases of government bonds, in
 Japan ’s biggest-ever round of asset buying.  In July, ECB President Mario Draghi declared that central
bank was prepared to buy unlimited quantities of government
bonds if that meant saving the euro. At the same time, his
pledge is tied to conditions so stringent that no country has
yet asked him to print money on its behalf and the euro region’s
economy is still mired in recession.  Soros also reiterated a call for Germany to back the
issuance of joint debt by European countries to lower their
borrowing costs or leave the euro area.  Germany “went too far” on pushing Cyprus to impose losses
on depositors as part of a rescue for the country as European
banks rely on savings as a source of funding and that could
undermine the banking industry, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in  Frankfurt  at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  