-- Southeastern Says Blackstone, Icahn Dell Offers Superior
-- B y   C h a r l e s   S t e i n   a n d   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2013-04-09T20:53:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/southeastern-says-blackstone-icahn-offers-for-dell-are-superior.html
Southeastern Asset Management Inc.,
the  money manager  that opposes a planned $24.4 billion buyout of
 Dell Inc. (DELL)  by its founder and  Silver Lake  Management LLC, said
two rival offers for the computer maker led by Blackstone Group
LP and billionaire investor  Carl Icahn  are superior.  “We view these proposals as superior primarily because
each offers shareholders the opportunity to remain owners of
Dell while also offering a higher cash price to owners who
choose to exit their investment,” Southeastern, which is Dell’s
biggest outside shareholder, said today in a statement.  Southeastern, which started buying  Round Rock , Texas-based
Dell almost eight years ago and first proposed a leveraged
buyout in June of last year, said the computer maker hasn’t
provided “any sound reasoning” why it needs to be taken
private at this point. The firm previously said the $13.65-a-
share offer from  Michael Dell  and Silver Lake undervalues the
company.  Blackstone, the world’s largest private-equity firm, and
Icahn each made a counterbid on March 22, the deadline of the
so-called go-shop period designed to solicit competing offers.
 Blackstone (BX) ’s plan values Dell at more than $14.25 a share, while
Icahn would pay $15 a share in cash for as much as 58.1 percent
of the company. Both offer existing shareholders an option to
stay invested.  Dell  fell  0.1 percent to $14.19 at the close of trading in
New York.  ‘Stark Contrast’  Dell management placed too much emphasis throughout the
proxy on the shrinking personal-computer division -- so-called
end user computing, or EUC -- giving short shrift to the more
profitable business focused on enterprise storage and services,
Southeastern said. That came in “stark contrast” to the
company’s past attention to ESS on earnings conference calls,
according to the fund-management firm.  “Given this change in public positioning, Dell’s
shareholders should question why the board is suddenly focused
on EUC, and not on ESS -- which was previously believed to be
the future of the business,” Southeastern wrote.  While the ESS business makes up only 35 percent of
projected fiscal 2014  sales , it will account for 58 percent of
operating income, excluding some costs, Southeastern said,
citing Dell and analysts’ estimates. The PC division, by
contrast, will only make up 42 percent of adjusted operating
income even, though it generates 65 percent of sales.  Southeastern , which is based in  Memphis , Tennessee, was
first to suggest a leveraged buyout in June of last year,
according to the proxy statement filed with regulators on March
29. The firm proposed participating in a deal by rolling some of
its shares into the company, and CEO Dell said he would consider
it. On Feb. 5, Dell’s board finalized and announced a merger
agreement with Silver Lake that made no mention of
Southeastern’s role.  Jed Repko, a spokesman for Southeastern at Joele Frank
Wilkinson Brimmer & Katcher, declined to comment beyond the
statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Charles Stein  in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net ;
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  