-- South African Consumer Confidence Slumps to Nine-Year Low
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2013-04-09T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/south-african-consumer-confidence-slumps-to-nine-year-low.html
South African  consumer confidence 
slumped to a nine-year low in the first quarter as slower
economic growth, job losses and higher inflation curbed
households’ finances.  The FNB/BER  index  fell 4 points to minus 7, Johannesburg-
based  First National Bank (FSR)  and the  Bureau for Economic Research 
said in an e-mailed statement today. The index has slumped from
a peak of 13 in the third quarter of 2010.  “Not even at the height of the global financial crisis in
2008 were consumers as downbeat about the country’s economic
prospects and their household finances as they are now,” FNB
said in the statement. “The growth in  consumer spending  is
expected to be subdued and much less supportive of economic
growth in 2013.”  Labor unrest and a slowdown in Europe cut exports and
undermined economic growth, investment and job creation in  South
Africa  last year. That’s also putting pressure on consumer
spending, which makes up two-thirds of expenditure in the
economy.  Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  has forecast expansion of
2.7 percent for this year, less than half the 7 percent annual
growth the government estimates it needs to cut the jobless rate
to 14 percent by 2020. South Africa’s  unemployment  rate of 24.9
percent is the highest of more than 30 emerging-market nations
tracked by Bloomberg.  FNB’s sub-index measuring consumers’ view of the economy’s
outlook fell 4 points to minus 11 in the quarter.  The central bank on March 22 kept its benchmark interest
 rate  unchanged at 5 percent, the lowest in more than 30 years,
to help support spending even as a weaker rand threatened to
push inflation above the target of 3 percent to 6 percent. The
currency has declined 5.3 percent against the dollar this year.  “A weaker  exchange rate  and substantially higher transport
and food costs” will add to cost pressures, FNB’s chief
economist Sizwe Nxedlana said in the statement. That will place
“further strain on the financial positions of households,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  