-- South African Corn Declines as Rand Strengthens Against Dollar
-- B y   T s h e p i s o   M o k h e m a
-- 2013-04-09T13:26:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/south-african-corn-declines-as-rand-strengthens-against-dollar.html
South African corn fell as the rand
gained to its strongest level against the dollar in more than
five weeks, lowering the cost of imported grains relative to
local produce.  White corn for July delivery, the most active contract,
dropped 0.4 percent to 2,089.80 rand ($233) a metric ton by the
close on the South African Futures Exchange. The yellow variety
for delivery in the same month declined 0.4 percent to 2,069
rand a ton.  The currency of  Africa ’s biggest economy appreciated as
much as 0.6 percent to 8.9407 per dollar, the highest on an
intraday basis since Feb. 28, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It traded 0.2 percent stronger at 8.9538 per dollar
by midday in Johannesburg.  “With a stronger rand, our prices came down,” Thys Grobbelaar, an analyst at Klerksdorp, South Africa-based Senwes
Ltd., said by phone.  The country exported white corn to  Italy  for the first time
in two months last week, the South African Grain Information
Service said on its website. The nation shipped 27,700 tons of
white corn to Italy, it said.  “They will buy our maize if our prices make sense and are
competitive with the rest of the world,” Brink van Wyk, a
trader at BVG Pty Ltd., said by phone from  Pretoria . “We will
see more exports with our competitive price.”  The rand has weakened 4.5 percent against the euro this
year, making South African corn more attractive to international
buyers as imports became cheaper.  In  South Africa , white corn, also called maize, is a staple
food, while the yellow variety is mainly used as  animal feed .
The nation is the continent’s largest producer of corn.  Wheat for May delivery was little changed at 3,383 rand a
ton.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tshepiso Mokhema in Johannesburg at 
 tmokhema@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  