-- Spain Bailout Less Likely on Lower Funding Costs: Moody’s
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t   a n d   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 2013-04-09T10:57:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/spain-bailout-less-likely-on-lower-funding-costs-moody-s.html
Spain  is less likely to need a
sovereign bailout now than it was in October as funding costs
have fallen since then, Moody’s Investors Service said.  “When we did our last rating action we said we do attach
quite a high likelihood for Spain’s having to ask for an ESM
precautionary credit line -- that is embedded in the current
rating,” Kathrin Muehlbronner, an analyst at Moody’s, said in
an interview in  Madrid  today. “At the moment we would see the
likelihood as lower than back in October.”  Spain’s funding costs have declined since the  European
Central Bank  last year unveiled a debt-purchase program on
secondary markets for sovereigns applying for aid from the
European Union’s rescue-fund, known as ESM. Prime Minister
 Mariano Rajoy  has said that while the program is useful, his
government will seek to avoid using it.  The yield on Spain’s 10-year benchmark bonds was at 4.74
percent at 12:51 p.m in Madrid, about 300 basis points lower
than its euro-era high of July 25, before ECB President  Mario Draghi  first pledged to hold the euro together. The spread with
similar German maturities narrowed to 3.47 percentage points.  Funding Needs  Funding costs in the euro area’s fourth largest  economy 
have come down “significantly,” Muehlbronner said, adding that
she welcomed that the Treasury has covered an important part of
its “very large” requirements for this year. Still, “at this
point in time it isn’t sufficient to move the rating,” she
said. Spain’s Treasury yesterday said it has covered 40 percent
of its planned mid- and long-term funding for 2013.  Moody’s has a Baa3 rating on Spain, the lowest investment
grade.  Standard & Poor’s  rates the country BBB-, the same level,
while  Fitch Ratings  holds it at BBB, two levels above junk.
Investors often ignore ratings, evidenced by the rally in
Treasuries after the U.S. lost its top grade at S&P in 2011.  Spain’s failure to honor budget-deficit goals has hurt the
country’s credibility and justifies a negative outlook on the
sovereign’s credit rating, Muehlbronner and Bart Oosterveld
wrote in a report published earlier today.  At the same time “Spain’s fiscal performance has improved
materially in 2012 compared to 2011,” they said. “This was
achieved against the background of a weakening economy and is
therefore a positive step towards placing the country’s public
finances on a sustainable path.”  Deficit Targets  Spain’s current deficit targets are 4.5 percent of gross
domestic product for 2013 and 2.8 percent for 2014. That
compares with overspending of 10.2 percent of GDP last year, or
7 percent excluding aid to the banking sector. Moody’s
calculates the cost of bank recapitalizations added an amount
equivalent to 3.65 percent of output to Spain’s budget gap last
year.  Muehlbronner and Oosterveld expect the deficit to reach
about 6 percent of GDP this year as public sector employees’
Christmas bonus won’t be scrapped again and pension expenditure
has increased by more than 5 percent a year on average over the
past five years.  In 2014, a modest return to growth may reduce the deficit
to as low as 5 percent of GDP if temporary tax increases
introduced last year are maintained, according to the report.’  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net ;
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  