-- Pimco Junk ETF Gets Record Deposits as State Street’s Loses
-- B y   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 2013-04-09T22:54:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/state-street-s-junk-etf-reports-second-biggest-daily-withdrawal.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.’s
short-term junk-bond exchange-traded fund reported a record
volume of  deposits  the same day  State Street Corp. (STT) ’s $11.6
billion  ETF (HYS)  saw a $378 million outflow.  Pimco’s 0-5 Year High Yield Corporate Bond ETF reported
$204.1 million of inflows on April 8, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. That’s the same day the SPDR Barclays High Yield
Bond ETF recorded its second-biggest daily redemption since its
inception more than five years ago, equal to about $378 million
worth of shares.  Pimco, manager of the world’s biggest bond fund, is
attracting investors to its ETF, which has amassed $1.63 billion
of net assets since its June 2011 inception, according to data
on Pimco’s  website . The fund focuses on debt that’s less
sensitive to rising interest rates, with high-yield bonds that
mature in five or fewer years poised to outperform dollar-
denominated notes on average for the first time since 2008.  Institutional investors are using the funds to make wagers
on a market that typically trades off exchanges in over-the-
counter transactions as they seek to insulate their investments
from  interest rates  rising from record lows.  “You’re going to see more of these block trades happening
here because it’s replacing the credit-default swaps to some
degree,” said Peter Tchir, founder of New York-based TF Market
Advisors. “People are starting to use it as a way to short
blocks of ETFs and then do the exchange.”  Biggest Withdrawal  The biggest withdrawal from State Street’s fund, which
trades under the ticker JNK, happened in May 2012, when an
investor used the fund to anonymously obtain almost $780 million
of speculative-grade bonds without moving prices in the
secondary market.  The investor on May 10 exchanged as much as 19.7 million
shares in State Street’s ETF for the equivalent of about $779.3
million in bonds held by the fund, Bloomberg data show.  Investors withdrew 9.25 million shares from the SPDR
Barclays High Yield Bond ETF, according to  data  reported on
April 8 compiled by Bloomberg. The fund’s share price has
declined 0.44 percent this month, while the average price on the
Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S. High Yield index rose 0.04
percent.  Annual Gains  ETF shares trade like stocks on exchanges, allowing
investors from  hedge funds  to retirees to slip in and out of
dollar-denominated  junk bonds  that have gained an annual average
of 21 percent since 2008.  The funds generally don’t buy securities directly when they
receive inflows or sell them to meet outflow requests. Instead,
an authorized participant receives cash from investors and uses
it to buy securities in exchange for ETF shares. With redemption
requests, the approved participant returns shares to an ETF’s
fund manager and receives securities.  Junk bonds that are due in five or fewer years have
returned 3.13 percent this year, compared with 3.1 percent for
high-yield bonds generally, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index
data show.  High-risk, high-yield bonds are rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service and lower than BBB- at  Standard & Poor’s .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Abramowicz in  New York  at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  