-- Stiglitz Says More Fiscal Stimulus Needed in U.S.: Tom Keene
-- B y   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2013-04-09T15:20:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/stiglitz-says-more-fiscal-stimulus-needed-in-u-s-tom-keene.html
The  U.S. economy  needs more fiscal
stimulus because monetary policy has little traction and
government spending cuts threaten the expansion, Nobel Prize-
winning economist  Joseph Stiglitz  said.  “What we need now is another round of stimulus to get out
of the doldrums,” Stiglitz, a Columbia University professor,
said today on the “Bloomberg Surveillance” television program
with  Tom Keene  and Sara Eisen. “We can’t rely on exports given
the weaknesses in Europe.”  Without President Barack Obama’s 2009 stimulus package,
 unemployment  would have peaked at more than 12 percent instead
of the 10 percent high it hit in October of that year, Stiglitz
said. Now, he said America is undergoing austerity by a
“slightly different name” with public-sector job losses that
could undermine growth.  Since the latest recession began in December 2007, public
payrolls have dropped by 511,000, according to Bureau of Labor
Statistics data compiled by Bloomberg. The jobless rate was 7.6
percent in March and the economy added 88,000 jobs, the smallest
gain in nine months and less than the lowest economist estimate
in a Bloomberg survey.  To bolster growth, the U.S. must use fiscal policy because
the central bank’s efforts “have very little effect,” at
present, Stiglitz said. The  Federal Reserve  has been buying $85
billion in Treasuries and mortgage-backed securities each month
in an effort to spur economic improvement.  European Austerity  Europe’s austerity measures, including those espoused by
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel , are also misguided, he said.
Household budget rules don’t transfer to the larger economy,
because when consumers watch their spending “it doesn’t have an
systemic effect,” whereas government cutbacks reverberate
through the economy.  “I wish Merkel could understand that,” Stiglitz said.
“Austerity leads the economy to perform more poorly. It leads
to more unemployment, lower wages and more inequality. There is
no instance of a large economy getting to growth through
austerity.”  Stiglitz is a former chief economist of the  World Bank , and
has worked as a member and chairman of the White House Council
of Economic Advisers. He won his  Nobel Prize  in economics in
2001.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanna Smialek in Washington at 
 jsmialek1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Costelloe at 
 kcostelloe@bloomberg.net  