-- Stock Price-Band Pilots, Nibor, Starr Suit: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-04-09T12:19:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/stock-price-band-pilots-nibor-starr-suit-compliance.html
A three-year effort to fine-tune
curbs on  volatility  for individual stocks entered a new phase
yesterday in the U.S.  Trying to reduce market disruptions, regulators are
instituting a plan that creates price bands in which shares are
allowed to trade on American equity exchanges, replacing the old
system of immediate pauses when shares swing rapidly. New
restraints to halt all U.S. stock, options and index futures
when the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  plunges will also take
effect. Both will operate as one-year pilot programs.  Regulators and exchanges are altering the speed bumps
adopted after the May 2010 flash crash to boost confidence in a
market that has become faster and more complex over the last
decade. The new system, known as limit-up/limit-down, replaces
automatic halts.  Under limit-up/limit-down, trades won’t be permitted to
occur more than a specified percentage above or below a stock’s
rolling five-minute average price. If the lowest price at which
investors are willing to sell shares reaches the stock’s lower
band, or the highest purchase price reaches the higher band, the
stock enters a so-called limit state for 15 seconds. Should no
trades occur between the bands, trading will cease for five
minutes, according to the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  Guinea Approves Mining Code With Lower Taxes, Minimum Investment  Guinea, the world’s largest exporter of bauxite, approved
changes to its mining code that will make it cheaper for foreign
investors to obtain concessions and operate mines.  The new code lowers taxes on mining and industrial and
commercial profit, Djiby Diaby, a spokesman of the National
Transition Council, the equivalent of parliament, told lawmakers
yesterday in the capital, Conakry. The minimum investment a
company must make to acquire a concession drops to $500 million
from $1 billion under the previous code, he said.  Rio Tinto Group and  Vale SA (VALE3)  operate in the West African
nation, which also has reserves of gold and iron ore. Guinea is
recovering from a coup d’etat that severed ties with the World
Bank and the International Monetary Fund until 2010 presidential
elections.  Uganda Cabinet Approves Law to Boost Public-Private Partnerships  Uganda’s cabinet approved a law to promote public-private
partnerships.  The policy is designed to attract private investments to
infrastructure projects, Investment Minister Gabriel Ajedra
Aridru told reporters in the capital, Kampala.  The draft law is being scrutinized by a parliamentary
committee before bill it is introduced to the legislature,
Aridru said.  The law will assure security of private partnerships with
the government, according to Aridru.  EU Deposit Insurance Plan Limited by Political Goals, Rohde Says  Danish central bank Governor Lars Rohde said political
hurdles are forcing the European Union to stop short of adopting
a cross-border deposit insurance system and instead rely on
national guarantees.  “It’s not ideal, but you have to remember that this is a
political question,” Rohde said of the EU strategy, which calls
on nations to adopt common standards for deposit insurance while
maintaining their own funds. The EU already requires nations to
guarantee deposits for account holders up to 100,000 euros
($130,000) per bank.  In an April 5 interview, Rohde supported the strategy to
begin with common bank supervision, followed by a push toward a
common approach for shutting down or restructuring failing
banks. Common deposit insurance isn’t part of the plan because
 Germany  and other like-minded nations fear they’d bear too many
costs on behalf of other countries.  EU leaders last year decided to press for banking union to
contain a debt crisis that’s now been raging for three years and
has left five of the euro area’s 17 members relying on bailouts.  Cyprus last month became a test case for investor losses as
euro-area authorities required that the nation’s two biggest
banks be restructured as a condition of a 10 billion-euro
rescue. The model unleashed anxiety across  Europe  that creditors
elsewhere might be required to accept similar losses.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  CFTC Said to Subpoena ICAP Brokers, Dealers on Swap Prices  The Commodity Futures Trading Commission has issued
subpoenas to  ICAP Plc (IAP)  brokers and as many as 15 Wall Street
banks as part of an investigation into possible price
manipulation of benchmark  interest-rate swaps , according to
people familiar with the matter.  The CFTC plans to interview about a dozen current and
former brokers at ICAP’s Jersey City, New Jersey, office as well
as dealers that contribute prices used to set the daily  ISDAfix 
swap rates, said three of the people, who asked not to be named
because the matter is private. The regulator is probing whether
ICAP brokers are colluding with dealers who stand to profit from
inaccurate quotes, including failing to update published market
prices after trades occur, one of the people said.  The ISDAfix levels, which the Federal Reserve includes in a
daily report on money-market rates, are used by everyone from
corporate treasurers to money managers to determine borrowing
costs and to value much of the $379 trillion of outstanding
interest-rate swaps globally.  The CFTC is probing the swaps trading as it works with
European regulators in the rate-rigging scandal surrounding the
 London  interbank offered rate.  Stephanie Allen, a CFTC spokeswoman, said the commission
doesn’t comment on enforcement issues. Brigitte Trafford, an
ICAP spokeswoman, declined to comment.  For more, click here.  U.K. Finance Regulation Fees Rise 15 Percent on FCA, PRA Split  U.K. financial regulation fees will rise 15 percent to
646.3 million pounds ($990 million) this year after the
Financial Services Authority was split into two agencies.  The annual funding cost for the Financial Conduct
Authority, the new consumer watchdog, is 432.1 million pounds,
the regulator said in an e-mailed statement today. The
Prudential Regulation Authority, a unit of the Bank of England
that is in charge of lender stability, will have a budget of
214.2 million pounds, including investments on a new office in
London and technology.  The increase will be borne mostly by larger banks and
institutions because they’ll fall under the watch of both
regulators. Medium-sized firms will also see an increase
depending on the type of business they conduct, and 42 percent
of companies authorized by the FCA will only pay the minimum
1,000-pound fee, the regulator said.  The FSA was shut down this month after politicians
criticized it for failing to do more to prevent the financial
crisis that led to the bailouts of three U.K. banks five years
ago.  Norway Seeks Nibor Overhaul as Probe Fails to Disprove Rigging  Norway’s financial watchdog recommended an overhaul of
practices shaping its benchmark interbank rate, after the
regulator said a probe couldn’t disprove claims of manipulation.  The Financial Supervisory Authority’s decision follows an
investigation of the Norwegian interbank offered rate after
bankers outside the country claimed Nibor was being rigged
locally. Documents released by the central bank in January
revealed e-mailed complaints from traders around the world going
as far back as 2010, adding urgency to a probe that was started
in December.  The financial regulator said yesterday on its website that
the Nibor framework needs to be “more transparent to allow for
subsequent testing and oversight.”  The Finance Ministry will review the FSA’s comments and
respond before “the summer,” it said on its website yesterday.  In Scandinavia,  Denmark  has conducted a probe of the
Copenhagen interbank offered rate amid speculation it was
manipulated during the financial crisis, while Sweden is also
reviewing its equivalent rate, Stibor.  Norway’s Finance Ministry asked the financial regulator in
December to check whether Nibor accurately reflects unsecured
loan rates between banks and whether fixings are sufficiently
robust. Nibor was linked to as much as 5.8 trillion kroner ($1
trillion) in derivatives in April 2010, according to central
bank documents.  For more, click here.  Sharjah-Linked Bank to Cut Costs by 3rd at Sale:  Islamic Finance   Sharjah Islamic Bank (NBS)  is set to pay about a third less to
sell sukuk than it did two years ago as the United Arab Emirates
lender benefits from government backing and the fastest profit
growth in three years.  The bank set initial price guidance on the dollar-
denominated Islamic bonds in the low 3 percent range, according
to people familiar with the transaction, who asked not to be
identified because the details are private. That’s in line with
the 3.2 percent average estimate of four analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg News. The lender paid 4.715 percent when it sold five-
year sukuk in May 2011.  Sharjah, the third-biggest emirate in the U.A.E. after Abu
Dhabi and Dubai, owns 31 percent of the bank, the data show.  For more, click here.  Courts  AIG Seeks to Toss Greenberg’s Challenge to U.S. Bailout  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  and the U.S. asked a
judge to dismiss claims in a lawsuit by former AIG Chief
Executive Officer Maurice “Hank” Greenberg challenging the
government’s bailout.  AIG “would face incalculable harm” to its brand, image
and relationships with shareholders, customers, regulators and
elected officials if the company joined a suit against the
government brought by Greenberg’s Starr International Co. Inc.,
AIG said in asking the U.S. Court of Federal Claims in
 Washington  to uphold its decision not to join the litigation.  Dawn Schneider, a spokeswoman for Starr’s law firm in the
case, Boies, Schiller & Flexner LLP, didn’t immediately respond
to a telephone request for comment.  The U.S. initially took a stake of 80 percent in AIG in
September 2008, increasing that to 92 percent as the aid package
swelled to $182.3 billion. The New York-based insurer repaid the
assistance last year.  AIG’s board on Jan. 9 unanimously agreed not to join
Starr’s suit, saying it was unlikely to succeed and risked
harming the insurer’s reputation after the bailout.  Starr, a closely held investment company, initially sued
the government in 2011 for $25 billion, calling the public
assumption of the majority of AIG stock a seizure of property in
violation of the U.S. Constitution’s Fifth Amendment right to
fair compensation.  AIG’s motion, filed late in the day on April 5, seeks to
dismiss only the derivative claims asserted by Starr in AIG’s
name. The U.S. Justice Department has also asked the court to
dismiss the suit, saying Starr lacks standing.  The case is Starr International Co. v. U.S., 1:11-cv-00779,
U.S. Court of Federal Claims (Washington).  Nexans Takes Appeal Against Cable-Cartel Raids to Top EU Court  Nexans SA (NEX)  asked the European Union’s top court to quash the
EU competition regulator’s decision to order antitrust raids
that seized swathes of the cable manufacturer’s documents.  The EU Court of Justice in Luxembourg should annul the
European Commission’s raids order “in so far as its geographic
scope was overly broad, insufficiently justified and
insufficiently precise,” Nexans said in its appeal, according
to a  summary  published in the EU’s Official Journal on April 6.
Alternatively, the court should send the case back for review to
the lower EU court, it said.  Rulings by the court in such cases take about 15 months
from the time of the appeal.  The cases are T-140/09, Prysmian, Prysmian Cavi and Sistemi
Energia v. Commission, T-135/09, Nexans France and Nexans v.
Commission.  Interviews  Banks’ Dividends to Decline on Basel Capital Rules, KPMG Says  The ability of European banks to pay dividends will weaken
as they seek to comply with stricter capital requirements,
accounting firm  KPMG  LLP said.  Klaus Ott, a partner at KPMG in  Frankfurt , made the
comments at a news conference in the city yesterday.  The European Union is introducing a wide-ranging plan on
how to apply Basel III rules, including restricting bonuses to
twice salaries and more than tripling the core reserves that
banks must hold against losses. While Basel III was meant to be
a single rule book, national regulators are set to apply the
standards in various ways, Ott said.  “For big international lenders, the situation will get
more complex than before the regulation as they have to look at
all sorts of different capital buffers which might apply to
them,” he said.  National regulators may levy an additional systemic risk
buffer of as much as 5 percent from 2015 onwards for certain
bank groups or assets classes, such as Spanish real estate or
ship lending, he said.  Gulf Investors Eye U.K. Banks Amid Tighter Rules, Staveley Says  Investment firm PCP Capital Partners LLP and the Gulf
investors it works with are interested in the U.K.’s banking
industry despite stricter rules imposed since the financial
crisis, said Chief Executive Officer Amanda Staveley.  “I’m always interested in the U.K. banking industry even
as it becomes more regulated,” said Staveley, who helped Abu
Dhabi invest 3 billion pounds ($4.6 billion ) in  Barclays Plc (BARC)  in
2008. “Once everything picks up, retail banking will start to
become interesting again. You could see more investors looking
at it.”  David Stockman, Clive Crook Debate Fed, Currency War  David Stockman, former director of the Office of Management
and Budget under President Ronald Reagan, and Clive Crook, a
Bloomberg View columnist, talked about the impact of Federal
Reserve policy on financial markets and the outlook for the U.S.
economy.  Stockman is the author of “The Great Deformation: The
Corruption of Capitalism in America.” They spoke with  Erik
Schatzker  and  Stephanie Ruhle  on Bloomberg Television’s “Market
Makers.”  For the video, click here.  Comings and Goings  SEC Gets New Chairman as Senate Approves Ex-Prosecutor White  The U.S. Senate confirmed Mary Jo White to lead the
Securities and Exchange Commission, putting the former U.S.
attorney in charge of an agency that has failed to satisfy
critics with its response to the financial crisis.  The Senate approved White by unanimous consent, meaning no
senators objected to her appointment, as the first former
prosecutor to run the SEC. She succeeds Elisse B. Walter who has
served as chairman since Mary Schapiro stepped down in December.  For more, click here.  Dimon Exit Seen Hastened If JPMorgan Names Separate Chairman  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  investors risk shortening Jamie
Dimon’s tenure as chief executive officer if they appoint a
separate chairman to help lead the bank, according to Charles
Peabody, an analyst at Portales Partners.  Peabody wrote the comments in a note to clients yesterday.  Calls for Dimon, 57, to give up the chairmanship have been
building since the bank disclosed risk-control lapses on
derivatives bets last year that fueled more than $6.2 billion in
losses. In March, the New York-based firm’s board urged
investors to vote against naming a separate chairman at the next
shareholder meeting, saying that Dimon’s dual role remains the
“most effective leadership model.”  Dimon told investors in February that he wouldn’t have
agreed to take a previous job, leading Bank One Corp., if the
board hadn’t given him both roles, Peabody recalled. JPMorgan
acquired Bank One in 2004 to create the company it is today.  Joe Evangelisti , a JPMorgan spokesman, declined to comment
on Peabody’s note. A shareholder proposal to appoint an
independent chairman failed with 40 percent of the vote last
year.  The board cut Dimon’s pay in half for 2012 after concluding
that he bore some responsibility for the debacle. It also
credited his leadership for the lender’s performance. A
coalition of retirement plans, including the AFSCME pension
fund, is pressing to separate Dimon’s roles.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 