-- Structured Notes Mirror JPMorgan’s London Whale Credit Trades
-- B y   A l a s t a i r   M a r s h
-- 2013-04-09T09:15:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/structured-notes-mirror-jpmorgan-s-london-whale-credit-trades.html
Banks are boosting sales of
structured notes based on derivative bets similar to those that
cost  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  more than $6 billion in the so-called
 London  Whale loss.  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) , SEB AB and  BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  sold more than
$60 million of notes this year tied to portions of credit-
default swap indexes protecting against losses on company debt.
The tranches offer investors varying degrees of risk among a
pool of companies.  JPMorgan trader Bruno Iksil became known as the London
Whale because of the size of his trades in tranches of the
Markit iTraxx CDX North American Investment Grade index of
swaps. Nordea and SEB’s structured notes are mainly linked to
portions of the Markit iTraxx  Europe  Index of investment-grade
companies and the Markit iTraxx Crossover Index, which tracks
mainly junk-rated companies in Europe.  “Sophisticated investors should run far and fast from
this,” said  Janet Tavakoli , founder of Chicago-based consulting
firm Tavakoli Structured Finance Inc. Wealthy individuals, who
are the main buyers of the securities, are unlikely to
understand all the risks they are taking or be appropriately
compensated for them, she said.  Issuers of the notes generate income by selling default
insurance on portions of the credit indexes that have various
levels of risk and reward.  iTraxx Europe  Nordea sold $35.5 million of notes tied to the 4 percent to
12 percent tranche of the latest series of the Markit iTraxx
Europe index. That means investors start losing money when
losses on the index reach 4 percent, and that they’re wiped out
when they exceed 12 percent.  The notes pay as much as 5 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The largest Nordic lender also issued
46.1 million Norwegian kroner ($8 million) of securities
yesterday linked to the 10 percent to 100 percent tranche of the
Crossover index.  “Investors are looking for additional yield through
leverage and these notes are one way of achieving that,” said
Antti Parviainen, head of investment products for  Finland  at
Nordea in Helsinki.  Investors in the note linked to the Crossover tranche would
start losing money when eight companies on the index default,
according to Abel Elizalde, European credit derivatives
strategist at Citigroup Inc. in London. His calculations are
based on a 40 percent recovery rate, the amount bondholders
would get back in a default.  Significant Risk  Structured notes tied to index tranches can have
“significantly higher” risks than notes tied to whole indexes
or single companies, said Elizalde. Potential returns on the
securities can also be higher, he said.  Norwegian papermaker  Norske Skogindustrier ASA (NSG)  is the
company in the Crossover index with the highest perceived risk
of failure, with credit-default swap prices signaling an 82
percent chance the company won’t be able to meet its liabilities
within the next five years, Bloomberg data show. Spanish gaming
company Codere SA has an 78 percent probability of default,
swaps show.  The global speculative-grade default rate is forecast to
end this year at 2.8 percent, compared with an average of 4.7
percent since 1983, Moody’s Investors Service said yesterday.  SEB also sold notes tied to tranches of the Markit’s iTraxx
Europe and Crossover indexes, said Holger Cassens, head of
structured derivatives at SEB’s German unit in  Frankfurt .  Capital Protection  The Stockholm-based lender issued 5 million euros ($6.5
million) of notes in November that are linked to the 12 percent
to 50 percent tranche of the Crossover index and pay 8.75
percent, Bloomberg data show. Investors’ capital is protected
for up to five credit events, after which their principal will
be reduced by 5 percent for every additional credit event, said
Cassens.  The bank also sold $6.2 million of five-year notes on Feb.
12 linked to the 16 percent to 35 percent tranche of the Markit
CDX North American High Yield Index, Bloomberg data show. The
securities were sold via two offerings in dollars and euros with
coupons of 6 percent and 7 percent.  “Demand is rising for these notes because investors get
more attractive yields and they are protected for a few credit
events,” said Cassens. “You can’t predict what will happen in
the future, but so far clients feel comfortable with the
buffer.”  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. sold the first structured
notes tied to a credit default-swap index tranche in November
2005, when it issued 15 million euros of 10-year securities tied
to the 3 percent to 6 percent portion of the fourth series of
the Markit iTraxx Europe Index, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The notes were unsecured and investors lost their money
when the  U.S. bank  collapsed in September 2008. Note holders
would be creditors in bankruptcy proceedings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alastair Marsh in London at 
 amarsh25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  