-- Swap Users Win Staggered Delays in Dodd-Frank Reporting Rules
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2013-04-09T23:11:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/swap-users-win-staggered-delays-in-dodd-frank-reporting-rules.html
Energy and manufacturing companies
won delays in Dodd-Frank Act requirements to report derivatives
trades they use to hedge business risks.  The so-called end users, who trade as clients of banks
including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C) , need the
delay to test data systems, the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission said in a press release yesterday. The rules were to
take effect today.  Users of interest-rate and credit swaps will have until
July 1 to comply with the reporting rule, according to the CFTC
statement. The deadline for users of equity, foreign exchange
and other commodity swaps was extended until Aug. 19. Non-
financial counterparties gained an extension to Oct. 31 for
certain reporting requirements for all swap asset classes.  “I am troubled by the arbitrary and ad-hoc manner in which
this relief was provided,” CFTC Commissioner  Scott O’Malia , a
Republican, said in a statement. “The application of date,
product and participant distinctions makes compliance and
implementation confusing for the end users.”  The CFTC and Securities and Exchange Commission are
implementing derivatives provisions of Dodd-Frank, the 2010
regulatory overhaul, after largely unsupervised trades helped
fuel the 2008 credit crisis. New rules planned for the $639
trillion global swaps market require that trade information be
reported to so-called swap data repositories that function as
central record-keepers.  The Commercial Energy Working Group, an alliance of
companies that weren’t identified individually, requested a six-
month delay through lawyers at Sutherland Asbill & Brennan LLP
in a March 1 letter to the CFTC.  “Of all the different groups that would be responsible for
reporting, they are probably the least prepared,” Brenda Boultwood, vice president of industry solutions at Palo Alto,
California-based MetricStream, which helps clients manage
regulatory compliance, said in a telephone interview before the
delay was announced.  Lobbying groups representing  Barclays Plc (BARC) , JPMorgan and
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  have also urged that the CFTC delay the
reporting rules for their clients. In a March 28 letter to the
CFTC, the International Swaps and Derivatives Association Inc.
and Financial Services Roundtable said bank clients need a delay
because they lack the resources to comply with the rules.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  