-- Sweden’s Export Bank Warns Industry Giants Pose Economic Risks
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m   a n d   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2013-04-09T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/sweden-s-export-bank-warns-industry-giants-pose-economic-risks.html
The state-backed lender that funds
 Sweden ’s exporters says the industry is dominated by super-sized
companies as smaller rivals struggle to grow.  SEK, based in Stockholm, is urging the largest Nordic
economy to do more to support small and medium-sized companies.  “We are far too reliant on large exporters,” SEK Chief
Executive Officer Peter Yngwe said in an interview in Stockholm.
“There are not enough incentives for small companies to grow
big and that’s something we need to work on.”  The home of Electrolux AB,  Volvo AB (VOLVB)  and Ikea relies on
exports to generate about half its $500 billion in annual
economic output. Sweden’s 10 biggest companies make up a third
of sales abroad, SEK estimates. While Swedish manufacturers have
pleaded with policy makers to stem the krona’s appreciation,
Yngwe argues the  exchange rate  isn’t as much of a threat to the
economy as the nation’s lop-sided export industry.  Sweden, which has about the same number of inhabitants as
 Michigan , boasts four companies in the Fortune 500 list of the
planet’s largest corporations by revenue. It’s home to Ericsson
AB, the world’s largest maker of mobile networks, SKF AB, the
biggest maker of ball-bearings and Hennes & Mauritz AB,  Europe ’s
second-largest clothing chain. Sweden’s 10 largest exporters are
Ericsson, Volvo Cars, Volvo, Preem AB, AstraZeneca AB, SSAB,
Sandvik AB, LKAB, Tetra Pak AB and  Saab AB. (SAABB)   ‘What If?’  “What will happen if the large companies all of a sudden
decide to leave Sweden?” Yngwe said. “We have a lot of large
companies, very few medium-sized and a lot of small companies,
so the structure looks a bit like an hour-glass.”  The government of Prime Minister  Fredrik Reinfeldt  is
trying to keep companies in Sweden and attract international
corporations by making it cheaper for them to do business. His
administration agreed this year to cut the corporate  tax rate  to
22 percent from 26.3 percent. The coalition has also abolished
Sweden’s wealth tax.  While those measures are business friendly, they don’t do
enough to help small and medium-sized companies, Yngwe said.  “Risk-reward aspects, which among other things include
taxes, have improved somewhat, but we need to think about what
else we can do,” he said. “It must pay to run companies and it
must pay to take risk. The risk-reward relationship is not big
enough; there are not enough incentives for small companies to
grow big.”  SEK Ratings  Sweden’s gross domestic product will grow 1.2 percent this
year from 0.8 percent in 2012, the central bank said on Feb. 13.
Output growth will accelerate to 2.7 percent in 2014, it said.  SEK, which is rated Aa1 at Moody’s and AA+ at  Standard &
Poor’s , last year lent 56.2 billion kronor ($8.8 billion) to
Sweden’s exporters and their customers. Since 1990, SEK has
generated about 2.4 billion kronor in profits for the state.
Lending in 2012 was the  second-highest  on record, after
exporters grew more reliant on alternative credit sources as
stricter  capital requirements  prompted banks to retrench.  “We see and hear from export companies that they find it
difficult to borrow,” Yngwe said. “Banks have been wounded
from the crisis, but most of all, the new regulatory frameworks
have decreased banks’ lending incentive and therefore increased
demand for our loans. The new rules, all else equal, make it
much more expensive and less interesting for banks to lend.”  Stay, Prosper  SEK’s loans, outstanding and agreed, reached 218.8 billion
kronor at the end of last year, of which 23.3 percent was lent
to western European companies and 10.3 percent to clients in
 Japan ,  Australia  and  New Zealand . Some 9.6 percent was lent to
 North America . SEK raises 37.2 percent of its funds in Europe,
22.7 percent in the U.S. and 22 percent in Japan.  “One challenge that we have in Sweden is to make sure that
the large companies operate in an environment that makes them
stay and can continue to prosper,” Yngwe said. “Another is to
make sure that we create more export companies that can
contribute to Swedish growth. We need more companies to become
medium-sized and more medium-sized companies to get larger.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net ;
Niklas Magnusson in Stockholm at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  