-- Syria Jihadist Al-Qaeda Link to Aid Assad, Opposition Says
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2013-04-09T16:18:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/syrian-jihadist-link-with-al-qaeda-to-aid-assad-opposition-says.html
The government of Syrian President
Bashar al-Assad will exploit the merger of al-Qaeda in  Iraq  and
the Syrian extremist al-Nusra Front to push its argument that
it’s fighting a war on terror, not an uprising, an opposition
leader said.  Burhan Ghalioun, who headed the opposition Syrian National
Council, said all liberal, democratic-minded and moderate
Syrians should “redouble our efforts to restore the real face
of the uprising.”  Al-Qaeda’s branch in Iraq said it has merged with  Syria ’s
al-Nusra Front, The  Associated Press  reported today. Al-Nusra is
listed by the U.S. State Department as a terrorist group because
of ties to al-Qaeda. A website linked to the group today
confirmed the merger with the Islamic State of Iraq, whose
leader, Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, first made the announcement in a
21-minute audio posted on militant websites late yesterday, AP
said.  Assad has portrayed the uprising that began in March 2011
as a war against jihadists funded by countries including  Saudi
Arabia  and Qatar. Ghalioun said in a phone interview from Paris
that the president and his government will exploit news of the
merger to tell the world they were right.  Being Hijacked  “What started off as a peaceful uprising by the Syrian
people is essentially now being hijacked by al-Qaeda,” Salman Shaikh, director of the  Brookings Institution ’s Doha Center in
Qatar, said in a phone interview.  “Al-Qaeda has reached a level of maturity in Syria whereby
they can directly pose a challenge to everyone else,” he said.
“It’s going to make things more complicated and it’s something
we suspected would happen the longer this regime” stayed in
power.  Links between al-Qaeda in Iraq and the al-Nusra Front
“were well known before this announcement,” the State
Department’s acting spokesman, Patrick Ventrell, said in an e-
mail. “We have long made clear our serious concerns with
respect to the threat of violent extremist elements present in
Syria, including al-Nusra Front.” The U.S. in December
designated al-Nusra as an alias of al-Qaeda in Iraq, he said.  U.S. officials have expressed concern that the conflict in
Syria is a magnet for jihadist fighters who might obtain access
to chemical weapons and gain power in a post-Assad Syria. The
U.S. has been unwilling to provide weapons to the rebels, in
part citing concerns arms might go to the extremists.  Fundamentalist Islamic fighters are a growing presence in
the Syrian opposition, increasing their influence as Western
nations have failed to intervene militarily in the uprising
against the Syria government, according to an October report by
the  International Crisis Group .  The lack of assistance by the international community has
created a vacuum in the balance of power that the jihadists have
filled, said Ghalioun, who’s still a member of the council.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Dubai at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  