-- U.K. Finance Regulator Investigating RBS Over Technology Failure
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y   a n d   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2013-04-09T14:12:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/u-k-finance-regulator-investigating-rbs-over-technology-failure.html
The U.K.’s consumer-finance
regulator is probing technology failures at  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc , which left some customers at the lender’s
NatWest and Ulster Bank units unable to withdraw money.  The Financial Conduct Authority, which took over from the
Financial Services Authority last week, started “an enforcement
investigation into the IT failures at RBS which affected the
bank’s customers in June and July 2012,” according to a
 statement  on its website today.  Customers were “let down” after a systems failure, RBS
Chief Executive Officer  Stephen Hester  said in June. The two
banks extended opening hours at more than 1,000 branches in the
U.K. and Ireland after the technical problems, which started on
June 19.  The computer failure caused problems with cash withdrawals
and money transfers for NatWest customers and a delay in
processing payments for Ulster Bank customers.  “Last summer’s IT failure was unacceptable,” RBS said in
an e-mail. “Our customers deserve service they can rely on 100
percent of the time and that’s what we want to provide.”  The FCA said it will “reach its conclusions in due course
and will decide whether or not enforcement action should
follow.”  “One of the big lessons from this is how important the
basic functions of banking are,”  Bank of England  Governor
 Mervyn King  told lawmakers in a U.K. parliamentary hearing in
 London  after the computer glitch.  “A very detailed investigation” by regulators was needed
to “find out, first of all, what went wrong and then perhaps
even more importantly, why it took so long to recover,” King
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  