-- U.K. February Manufacturing Rebounds After Snow Slump: Economy
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-04-09T10:32:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/u-k-manufacturing-rose-by-a-more-than-forecast-0-8-in-february.html
U.K. manufacturing  rose twice as
much as economists forecast in February as it rebounded from a
slump during snow the previous month.  Factory output increased 0.8 percent from January, when it
fell 1.9 percent, the  Office for National Statistics  said today
in  London . The median forecast of 29 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey was for a gain of 0.4 percent. While total
industrial output also increased more than forecast, separate
data showed the goods trade deficit widened as exports declined.  Today’s data may ease concern the economy will fall back
into a recession as manufacturers battle a continued slump in
the euro area, the U.K.’s biggest trading partner, as well as
lackluster demand at home. The  economy  shrank in the fourth
quarter and Markit Economics said last week that its industry
surveys point to growth of a “mere” 0.1 percent in the three
months through March.  “This makes a triple-dip recession in the first quarter
marginally less likely, and slightly reduces the chances of
further  Bank of England  stimulus in the near-term,” said Rob Wood, an economist at Berenberg Bank in London. “This does not
affect the underlying picture for the U.K., which is one of
stagnation.”  The pound extended its gain against the dollar after the
data were published. It was trading at $1.5317 as of 10:58 a.m.
in London, up 0.4 percent from yesterday.  Government bonds 
declined, pushing the yield on the 10-year gilt up 4 basis
points to 1.74 percent.  Machinery Output  Out of 13 categories in manufacturing, eight rose in
February from the previous month, the statistics office said.
Four declined and one was unchanged. The biggest upward impact
came from machinery and equipment, transport equipment and basic
metals. Manufacture of consumer durable goods fell 5.1 percent,
the most since April 2008. From a year earlier, manufacturing
production fell 1.4 percent.  Smiths Group Plc (SMIN) , a maker of airport security scanners,
said last month that it sees “tough trading conditions” in the
fiscal second half through July.  “While February’s industrial production and trade data
increase the chances that the economy has just about avoided a
so-called triple-dip recession, they hardly paint a picture of
strength,” said Samuel Tombs, an economist at Capital Economics
Ltd. in London. “The big picture is that the economic recovery
is still struggling to gain any traction.”  House Prices  Industrial output  rose 1 percent in February from January
and was down 2.2 percent from a year earlier. The monthly
increase, which exceeded economists forecast for a 0.4 percent
gain, was led by a 2.8 percent gain in mining and quarrying. Gas
and electricity increased 1.3 percent, boosted by demand during
cold weather. Temperatures in February were lower than the long-
term average for the month.  There was positive data from the housing market today, with
the  Royal Institution  of Chartered Surveyors saying its index of
 U.K. house prices  rose in March as transactions picked up and
the outlook improved. Separately, the  British Retail Consortium 
said its measure of retail sales rose in March.  Still, the goods-trade gap widened to 9.42 billion pounds
($14.4 billion) in February from 8.17 billion pounds in January.
That’s the biggest deficit since August. Exports fell 1.1
percent, led by oil and chemicals, while imports rose 1.7
percent. The services trade balance was 5.77 billion pounds,
leaving a total trade gap of 3.64 billion pounds.  Euro Turmoil  To boost a flagging economy, Chancellor of Exchequer  George Osborne  expanded the Bank of England’s remit last month to give
it more flexibility to meet its inflation target. Still, the
Monetary Policy Committee kept its  bond-purchase target  at 375
billion pounds last week as concern about dislocating inflation
expectations overrode the new freedoms.  U.K. inflation accelerated to 2.8 percent in February,
above the BOE’s 2 percent target.  Turmoil in the euro area may also harm U.K. prospects, with
renewed financial-market strains adding to the region’s struggle
to emerge from a recession. Data today showed German exports
fell more than economists forecast in February. Foreign sales,
adjusted for working days and seasonal changes, dropped 1.5
percent from January, when they gained 1.3 percent.  France ’s trade deficit widened to 6.01 billion euros ($7.84
billion) in February from 5.65 billion euros in January as
exports dropped more than imports, a separate report showed.  The  European Central Bank  last week said it stands ready to
cut  interest rates  if the region’s economy deteriorates further,
and that officials are also considering further non-standard
measures to stimulate growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  