-- U.K. Economy Avoids Triple Dip With 0.1% Growth, Niesr Estimates
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2013-04-09T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/u-k-economy-avoids-triple-dip-with-0-1-growth-niesr-estimates.html
Britain’s economy  probably expanded
in the first quarter of the year and avoided a triple-dip
recession, according to an estimate from the National Institute
of Economic and Social Research.  Gross domestic product  rose 0.1 percent in the period, the
same pace as in the three months through February, the London-
based institute, whose clients include the Bank of England and
the U.K. Treasury, said in a statement today. The economy shrank
0.3 percent in the fourth quarter of 2012.  The estimate follows data showing that  industrial
production  rose 1 percent in February, more than twice as much
as economists had forecast, rebounding from a slump in January
when snow hampered activity. Niesr’s estimate matches that of
Markit Economics, which said last week that its industry surveys
indicate first-quarter expansion of 0.1 percent.  “Production sector output picked up sharply in February
2013, but this was largely a reversal the sharp drop in output
in January,” Niesr said in the statement. “Our estimates
suggest that both production sector output and the broader
economy were broadly flat in the first quarter.”  Niesr also said Britain is in a “depression,” which it
defines as a period when output is depressed below its previous
peak. It forecasts the economy will expand 0.7 percent this year
and 1.5 percent in 2014, and it doesn’t expect output to pass
the peak in early 2008 until 2015.  The institute said its calendar-quarter GDP projections
have a standard error of 0.1-0.2 percentage point when compared
with the first estimate produced by the Office for National
Statistics. The ONS is due to publish the data on April 25.  The gain in industrial output in February compared with
economists’ forecast for a 0.4 percent increase, based on the
median of 30 estimates. It was led by a 2.8 percent gain in
mining and quarrying. Gas and electricity increased 1.3 percent,
boosted by demand during cold weather.  Factory production rose 0.8 percent in February from the
previous month, also exceeding economists’ forecasts. Out of 13
categories in manufacturing, eight rose in February from the
previous month, four declined and one was unchanged.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  