-- U.K. Lawmakers Will Gather to Pay Tribute to Thatcher
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-04-10T08:38:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/u-k-lawmakers-will-gather-to-pay-tribute-to-thatcher.html
Prime Minister David Cameron will
lead tributes in Parliament today to Britain’s only female
premier, Margaret Thatcher, who died two days ago, as lawmakers
break from their Easter vacation to consider her legacy.  While Cameron was effusive in his praise of the former
Conservative leader, who died at the age of 87 following a
stroke, calling her “lion-hearted” and a “patriot,”
opposition Labour Party leader Ed Miliband trod a more careful
line, offering his condolences on her death while stressing the
“controversial” nature of her policies.  Other Labour lawmakers were more damning of Thatcher’s
record. Ian Lavery wrote on Twitter that she had “destroyed”
some mining communities and Ronnie Campbell told BBC Radio he
would rather be “in a torture chamber” than in Parliament
today. Previous such occasions have given lawmakers little time
to express their opinions. In 1965, lawmakers had just 45
minutes to commemorate Britain’s wartime leader, Winston Churchill. When Edward Heath, Thatcher’s Tory predecessor, died
in 2005, tributes in Parliament lasted for 73 minutes.  The House of Commons and the upper, unelected House of
Lords will both meet in  London  at 2:30 p.m. By tradition,
Parliament adjourns or closes on the death of a former premier,
so by recalling lawmakers during their vacation, Cameron will
not lose a day of debate on his Finance Bill next week.  ‘Social Divisions’  Labour lawmaker John Healey wrote on the PoliticsHome
website he would not be attending Parliament today, citing
Thatcher’s record as the “closure of the coal industry, the
squandering of North Sea oil revenues to cover the cost of tax
cuts, the ‘big bang’ deregulation of banking, the 17 billion-
pound privatization of public housing” and “deep social
divisions.”  Thatcher will be given a funeral just one step short of a
state ceremony on April 17. In a government operation dubbed
“True Blue,” she will receive a ceremonial funeral in London’s
St. Paul’s Cathedral with full military honors -- the same
status as accorded to the Queen Mother in 2002 and Diana Princess of  Wales  in 1997 -- in recognition of her influence on
the nation.  Queen Elizabeth II plans to attend the funeral, accompanied
by her husband, Prince Philip, the Duke of Edinburgh. It is the
first time she will have attended a service for a former prime
minister since Churchill’s death.  Jobless Surge  Thatcher, who was prime minister from 1979 to 1990, will be
lauded today by Tory lawmakers. They have praised her strength
of character and economic reforms this week. Political opponents
questioned policies that that led to the decline of traditional
industries such as mining and drove unemployment to a postwar
high of 3.3 million in the mid-1980s.  “Some parts of the left reveal their lack of respect,
grace, and dignity -- to their own loss, not to the loss of Lady
T’s colossal legacy,” Conservative Mark Pritchard said on
Twitter.  Defence Secretary Philip Hammond, a Tory, said it would be
“very appropriate to have a memorial somewhere in London” for
Thatcher. He suggested the spare plinth in Trafalgar Square as a
location.  After her death, a crowd of 300 people assembled in
Glasgow’s George Square, where in 1989 protests against the so-
called poll tax, a local-authority levy on every resident, took
place, the Press Association reported. Anti-capitalist
campaigners shouted from loudspeakers, “Maggie, Maggie,
Maggie” as the crowd replied “dead, dead, dead.” It was an
echo of chants from the 1980s in which protestors would call
“Maggie, Maggie, Maggie, out, out, out.”  Funeral Costs  The Daily Mirror, which supports the Labour Party, reported
today that the funeral might cost 10 million pounds ($15
million). Foreign Secretary William Hague, a protege of
Thatcher, argued that her negotiations on Britain’s rebate from
the European Union have brought in 75 billion pounds. “So I
think we can afford to contribute to a funeral,” he told BBC
Television’s “Breakfast” program.  “I think a lot of the problem that some people have, it’s
only a minority of people, is that they could never beat her,”
Hague said. “People on the left could never defeat her. They
claimed to stand for millions of people, but they could never
get remotely as many votes as Margaret Thatcher in an election
and she remained undefeated in a general election and I think
you see a little bit of that frustration coming out in the
negative comments.”  Security Concerns  Churchill’s funeral cost 48,000 pounds in 1965, the
equivalent of about 800,000 pounds ($1.2 million) today,
according to the  Bank of England .  Tom Pine, a lecturer in disaster management at the
 University of Hertfordshire  who served in London’s Metropolitan
Police Service for 32 years, said the authorities planning the
funeral procession will be anxious to prevent any disruption by
Thatcher’s political opponents.  “The police will be concerned that someone will try to
disrupt or attack the funeral cortege to get maximum publicity
for their political views,” Pine said in a telephone interview.
“Given what happened, the police will be looking at the extreme
fringe of the left and perhaps those concerned about the current
government’s austerity measures.”  Thatcher survived an assassination attempt in 1984 when the
Irish Republican Army bombed her hotel in Brighton during the
Conservatives’ annual conference, killing five people. She stuck
to her schedule and addressed party members the next day.  ‘Active Element’  “There is also a small but still active element of the IRA
that will be examined by the police and security services to see
if they pose a threat to security on the day,” Pine said.  “Public events of this type are divided into three types:
celebratory such as the royal wedding, contemplative such as the
funeral of the Queen Mother and controversial,”  Keith Still ,
professor of crowd science at Bucks New University, said in a
telephone interview. “Baroness Thatcher’s funeral falls into
the last category.”  Planners “will assess the barriers along the route, how
deeply the space is filled and where you put the media so as not
to encourage people to act up in front of the television
cameras,” Still said. “The crowd may be in a volatile mood
because she was a love-hate figure.”  Thatcher’s body was moved from the Ritz Hotel in central
London in the early hours of yesterday and taken to an
undisclosed location as preparations for the funeral began. She
had been convalescing in the luxury hotel since coming out of
hospital in December. Her twin children, Mark and Carol, are
returning to the U.K. for her funeral.  Private Cremation  Thatcher will be cremated in a private ceremony, Cameron’s
office said April 8. In state funerals, which are generally
reserved for monarchs, the carriage bearing the coffin is drawn
by sailors from the Royal Navy, whereas in ceremonial funerals,
horses are used.  Churchill was the last non-royal to receive a state funeral
in 1965. Others who have been given the honor include Admiral
Horatio Nelson, who died during the Royal Navy’s victory over
the French and Spanish fleets at the Battle of Trafalgar in
1805, and 19th-century prime ministers including William Gladstone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  