-- U.S. Senators Seeking Tougher Economic Sanctions on Iran
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2013-04-09T08:41:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/u-s-senators-seeking-tougher-economic-sanctions-on-iran.html
A group of U.S. lawmakers is
proposing to intensify the economic pressure on  Iran  over its
disputed nuclear program by drafting the harshest penalties to
date on a nation whose income from oil exports has been cut in
half by sanctions since 2011.  A draft Senate bill, a copy of which was obtained by
Bloomberg News from a congressional office, would penalize
foreign countries that do business with any Iranian entity
controlled by the government. It also would bar Iran from using
earnings from oil exports to purchase anything other than food
and medicine.  The draft measure, which is expected to be finalized and
introduced this month, also would require the Islamic Republic
to release political prisoners, respect the rights of women and
minorities and move toward “a free and democratically elected
government” before Iranian government-controlled entities could
be removed from the U.S. sanctions list.  “Congress is running out of patience,”  Mark Dubowitz  of
the Foundation for Defense of Democracies in Washington, who’s
advised lawmakers and the administration on Iran sanctions, said
in a telephone interview yesterday. “New measures under
consideration will massively intensify the economic pressure on
Iran and move the sanctions regime closer to a de facto
commercial and financial embargo on Iran.”  The draft Senate legislation, which would have to pass both
houses of Congress and be signed by President  Barack Obama ,
would target Iran’s foreign exchange holdings by cutting off its
access to hard currencies, including the euro, and restricting
its use of money exchange houses.  Presidential Reports  In an effort to stop Iran from evading existing sanctions
on oil exports, the bill also would penalize companies that
provide ship insurance and reinsurance for Iran and punish
entities involved in vessel-to-vessel transfers of Iranian oil.  The draft bill would require the president to report every
60 days on how long it would take Iran to produce enough
weapons-grade uranium for a single implosion-type nuclear
weapon. The president also would be required to report on the
efficacy of U.S. sanctions in depleting Iran’s foreign exchange
reserves and an estimated date by which Iran would face a
balance-of-payments crisis “that prevents it from maintaining a
functioning economy.”  The draft legislation also would impose a de facto arms
embargo on Iran, North Korea,  Syria ,  Sudan  and armed Islamic
extremist groups such as Hezbollah and Hamas that the U.S. says
are proxies for Iran.  Economic Isolation  While Iranian officials say their country’s nuclear program
is for energy and medical research,  Israel  and the U.S. believe
Iran may be secretly trying to develop a nuclear weapons
capability and have threatened military strikes and further
economic isolation to prevent that.  The draft bill may be the first volley in an effort to
punish Iran for failing to accept a deal proposed six weeks ago
in the initial round of nuclear talks between Iran and six other
nations in Almaty, Kazakhstan.  The U.S., Britain,  France ,  Germany ,  Russia  and  China 
offered to ease sanctions on the petrochemical, gold and
precious metals trades and on civilian aircraft parts and to
offer technical cooperation on nuclear energy if Iran were to
halt production of 20 percent-enriched uranium and shipped much
of its stockpile out of the country, according to diplomats
involved.  ‘Far Apart’  After a second round of negotiations last week in Almaty,
though, Iran and world powers remain “far apart in substance,”
according to European Union foreign policy chief Catherine Ashton.  “We are open to negotiation but it is not open-ended,
endless negotiation,” U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry said
in  Jerusalem  before a meeting with Israeli Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu. “It cannot be used as an excuse for other
efforts to try to break out with respect to a nuclear weapon.”  Iran, with the world’s fourth-largest proven oil reserves,
has threatened to stop crude shipments through the Strait of
Hormuz if attacked.  Commodity markets so far haven’t reacted to the stalemate
in negotiations. Oil rose to a nine-month high of $119.17 a
barrel on Feb. 8 on concern that tension with Iran would disrupt
Middle East oil exports. Prices have since declined as signs of
a wider conflict eased. Brent crude for May settlement gained 54
cents to $104.66 a barrel yesterday on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange.  Nuclear Day  Western nations “couldn’t stop us from developing the
technology,” Iran’s President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad said in
comments aired live on state television today during the
country’s National Nuclear Technology Day. “Nobody will be able
to put the brakes on Iran’s nuclear progress.”  An Iranian official, Alaeddin Boroujerdi, who heads
parliament’s national security and foreign policy committee,
said in an interview with the Arabic-language Al Alam news
channel this week that that his country has the option to
withdraw from the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty, which
requires safeguards that include allowing United Nations
inspectors access to Iran’s nuclear sites.  Some policy specialists warn that making the election of a
new Iranian regime the objective of some of the sanctions might
backfire.  Regime Change  In an article in Foreign Affairs last October, Rolf Ekeus,
a Swedish diplomat who was chief of the United Nations’ weapons
inspectors in  Iraq  in the 1990s, said a statement by U.S.
President Bill Clinton’s administration that regime change was
an aim of sanctions on Saddam Hussein’s regime prompted Iraq to
stop cooperating with UN inspectors.  Trita Parsi, who has advised the UN Security Council and
the U.S. Congress on sanctions, said the penalties so far have
“induced Iranian escalation rather than flexibility” because
Iran’s leaders don’t think halting nuclear research would bring
sanctions relief.  Senators involved in drafting or consulting on the
legislation include Republicans Mark Kirk of  Illinois , Susan Collins of  Maine  and John Cornyn of  Texas ; and Democrats Joe Manchin of West Virginia and Bob Menendez of New Jersey. The
Senate Banking and Foreign Relations committees also have been
consulted, according to Senate aides.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in  Washington  at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  