-- U.S. Treasury Freezes Assets of Honduran Drug Trafficking Family
-- B y   A d a m   W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-04-09T18:13:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/u-s-treasury-freezes-assets-of-honduran-drug-trafficking-family.html
The U.S. Treasury Department named
Honduran Jose Miguel Handal Perez and  his family  as Specially
Designated Narcotics Traffickers, freezing any assets they have
under U.S. jurisdiction and prohibiting transactions with U.S.
residents.  Handal, known as “Chepe Handal,” heads a Honduran-based
organization that coordinates and distributes multiton shipments
of cocaine from  Colombia  into Honduras, the U.S. Treasury
Department said in a  statement . Handal’s wife, father and
several of the family’s companies in San Pedro Sula were also
designated in accordance with the Foreign Narcotics Kingpin
Designation Act, according to the statement.  Handel coordinates receipt of narcotic shipments from
 Venezuela  and distributes them to Mexican drug trafficking
organizations such as the Sinaloa cartel and Los Zetas via
Guatemala, the Treasury Department said. Around 79 percent of
cocaine smuggling flights from South American first land in
Honduras, according to a U.S. State Department international
narcotics  report  last year.  “Chepe Handal plays a critical role in the transportation
and distribution of drug shipments between South America and the
Sinaloa Cartel and  Los Zetas ,” U.S. Department of the
Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control Director Adam J.
Szubin said in the statement. “Today’s action underscores
OFAC’s commitment to targeting and disrupting key facilitators
of the drug trade wherever they may be.”  The Central American street gang Mara Salvatrucha, or
MS-13, was designated a transnational criminal organization by
the U.S. Treasury Department in October to give officials more
tools to target the group’s financial networks. MS-13, which
operates primarily in El Salvador and northern Central America,
was cited by Treasury for its involvement in drug-trafficking,
kidnapping and assassinations.  More than 57,000 people have died in Mexico due to drug-
related violence since 2006, while Honduras and El Salvador have
the highest murder rates in the world, the  United Nations  said
in its 2011 Global Study on Homicide.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Williams in  San Jose ,  Costa Rica  at 
 awilliams111@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  