-- U.S. Seeks to Intervene in Wynn Resorts’ Okada Case
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2013-04-09T22:57:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/u-s-seeks-to-intervene-in-wynn-resorts-case-against-okada-1-.html
The U.S. is seeking to intervene in
the lawsuit that  Wynn Resorts Ltd. (WYNN)  brought against former
director Kazuo Okada, whom the casino operator accused of making
improper payments to Philippine gaming regulators.  The U.S. yesterday filed a request in  Nevada  state court in
Las Vegas to submit a sealed declaration in support of a motion
to intervene and to temporary halt collection of evidence in the
lawsuit. Michael Passman, a spokesman for the  Justice Department 
in Washington, didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking
comment on the filing.  Wynn Resorts last year forcibly redeemed Okada’s 20 percent
stake in the Las Vegas-based company and sued him for breach of
fiduciary duty. Wynn accused the Japanese billionaire, who
resigned as director in February, of making improper payments to
officials in the  Philippines , where he’s building a casino.  The possible violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act by a controlling shareholder could threaten Wynn
Resorts’ gaming license in Nevada and other jurisdictions, the
casino operator claimed.  Eric Andrus, an outside spokesman for Okada with RLM
Finsbury in New York, and Michael Weaver, a spokesman for Wynn
Resorts, didn’t immediately respond to requests for comment on
the filing.  Bribes Barred  The FCPA bars companies or individuals regulated or based
in the U.S. from paying bribes to foreign officials to win
business. Foreign companies and nationals also can be prosecuted
if their corrupt acts were committed in the U.S.  Okada’s company, Tokyo-based Universal Entertainment, said
Feb. 5 that a third-party committee was investigating payments
made through its U.S. unit, Aruze USA Inc., to official in the
Philippines. The committee was looking at $40 million in
payments, according to the statement.  The U.S.  Federal Bureau  of Investigation is looking into
Okada’s pursuit of his Philippine gaming license, any tax
benefits he received and the flow of funds involved, Cristino Naguiat, chairman and chief executive of the Philippine
Amusement & Gaming Corp., the gambling authority, said in
January.  The case is Wynn Resorts v. Okada, A-12-656710-B, Clark
County District Court, Nevada ( Las Vegas ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 