-- U.S. Isn’t Broke, Dollar Won’t Fail, Capital Economics Says
-- B y   K e v i n   B u c k l a n d   a n d   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-04-09T15:26:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/u-s-isn-t-broke-dollar-won-t-collapse-capital-economics-says.html
The U.S. isn’t broke, and the dollar
isn’t in danger of collapse even after unprecedented stimulus
measures enacted following the worst financial crisis since the
Great Depression, according to  Capital Economics  Ltd.  Taking into account total domestic assets and liabilities,
the U.S. economy’s overall net worth is about 550 percent of
gross domestic product in 2011,  Paul Ashworth , the chief U.S.
economist at Capital Economics, wrote in a research note. That
compares with official figures showing U.S. GDP at close to $15
trillion, while national debt has ballooned to $16.8 trillion
after nearly tripling since 2001.  The report adds to the global debate over deficits and
fiscal austerity, which is being waged from the euro area, whose
economy is forecast to contract for a second year, to the U.S.,
which has grown for three years even as it was downgraded by
 Standard & Poor’s  in August 2011 for failing to rein in its
growing debt burden.  “At first glance it does appear that America is caught in
some sort of debt super cycle,” Toronto-basedAshworth wrote
yesterday. After accounting for increases in domestic asset
values “the rise in credit market debt and total financial
liabilities does not look particularly egregious.”  The best-known study of the ramifications of a country’s
ratio to gross-domestic-product is by economists  Carmen Reinhart 
and  Kenneth Rogoff , which found that nations with debt loads
greater than 90 percent of their economies grow more slowly.  ‘Absolutely Nonsense’  “That tipping point of 90 percent is absolutely
nonsense,”  Joseph Stiglitz , Nobel Prize-winning Columbia
University economist, said today on Bloomberg Television’s
“Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Sara Eisen. “We had a much
higher debt-to-GDP ratio at the end of World War II. After World
War II ended, we had the fastest rate of economic growth, shared
prosperity.”  Reinhart and Rogoff said in a 2010 paper that once debt
rises beyond 90 percent of gross domestic product for advanced
economies, median growth rates are 1 percentage point lower. The
U.S. passed the 90 percent mark in early 2010, according to the
 International Monetary Fund .  The U.S. isn’t deeply in debt to other nations, according
to Capital Economics’s Ashworth. Taking into account U.S.
holdings of foreign bonds and cross-country holdings of other
types of assets, net external liabilities are a “fairly
modest” 30 percent of GDP, he said in the report.  Market View  “Under these circumstances, there is little danger of a
collapse in the dollar or a spike in long-term  interest rates ,”
he wrote.  Three years after a government spending surge in response
to the recession drove the nation’s total debt to $16.7
trillion, or 106 percent of the $15.8 trillion economy, key
indicators reflect gathering strength. Businesses have increased
spending by 27 percent since the end of 2009. The annual rate of
new home construction jumped about 60 percent. Employers have
created almost 6 million jobs.  “The overall balance sheet position of America is not a
disaster,” Ashworth said in a telephone interview today.  “It
is important to look at both sides of that balance sheet because
both sides have been expanding.”  Even as the U.S. continues borrowing to cover this year’s
projected $845 billion deficit, bond markets remain untroubled.
Yesterday’s 1.91 percent yield in New York on the 10-year
Treasury note was lower than on the day President  Barack Obama 
was sworn in for his first term. It’s lower than on Aug. 5,
2011, when S&P lowered the U.S. credit rating. And it’s well
below the 5.3 percent average over the past 25 years.  Dollar Gain  The U.S. Trade Weighted Major Currency Index, which
measures the greenback against the currencies of Europe,
 Australia ,  Canada , Japan,  Sweden , Switzerland and the U.K., has
risen 4 percent since January 2008 to 76.04. The dollar’s share
of global foreign-exchange reserves stands at 61.8 percent, up
from 60.5 percent in mid-2011, the latest Washington-based
International Monetary Fund  data  show.  Unemployment in 17-nation countries using Europe’s common
currency has climbed to a record 12 percent under a German-led
austerity-first strategy.  U.S. payrolls grew by 88,000 in March, the smallest gain in
nine months and less than the most-pessimistic forecast in a
Bloomberg survey, raising concern that higher taxes and  federal
budget  cuts may be sapping growth in the world’s largest
economy.  The ratio of  U.S. debt  to GDP climbed to 74 percent last
year from 38 percent in 2008, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Eurostat data show the  euro zone ’s climbed to 87 percent at the
end of 2011 from 66 percent four years earlier.  “There is no instance of a large economy getting to growth
through austerity,” Stiglitz said. “You need to stimulate the
economy. And right now, monetary policy has very little effect.
You need fiscal stimulation.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kevin Buckland in Tokyo at 
 kbuckland1@bloomberg.net ;
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net ;
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  