-- UBS Wins Dismissal of Loreley Financing Lawsuit Over CDOs
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-04-09T16:16:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/ubs-wins-dismissal-of-loreley-financing-lawsuit-over-cdos.html
UBS AG (UBSN)  won dismissal of a lawsuit
brought by Loreley Financing entities, which sued the Swiss bank
to recover $331 million in losses on collateralized debt
obligations.  Loreley investment vehicles sued UBS last year over what it
said were four fraudulent CDOs. One of them was arranged by UBS
“at the behest of” Magnetar Capital, which was betting against
the housing market and selected collateral for the securities,
according to the complaint. Loreley claimed Magnetar’s short
position had been concealed.  Justice Shirley Werner Kornreich of  New York  State Supreme
Court in Manhattan threw out claims against UBS in a decision
filed yesterday, saying Loreley had made a “massive bet” on
the housing market, while Magnetar had “shrewd insight” that
the subprime mortgage market would crash. Magnetar was not named
as a defendant in the lawsuit.  “There is nothing in the complaint that indicates that
Loreley particularly cared about Magnetar’s investment
strategy,” the judge wrote. “Importantly, Loreley, as
sophisticated investors, knew that there has to be deep pocketed
counterparties to their long positions.”  Loreley Financing is a group of special-purpose entities
based in Jersey, the largest of the  Channel Islands , a U.K.
dependency known as a tax haven. The entities were formed for
long-term investing in CDOs, pools of assets such as mortgage
bonds packaged into new securities, according to court
documents.  Karina Byrne , a spokeswoman for Zurich-based UBS, didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment on the
decision.  Marc Kasowitz , an attorney representing the Loreley
entities, didn’t immediately return a telephone message and an
e-mail.  The case is Loreley Financing (Jersey) No. 4 Ltd. v. UBS
Ltd., 651785-2012, New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  