-- Uhuru Kenyatta Sworn-in as Kenya’s Fourth President
-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 2013-04-09T16:33:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/uhuru-kenyatta-sworn-in-as-kenya-s-fourth-president.html
Uhuru Kenyatta pledged to be a
president for all Kenyans as he was inaugurated as the East
African nation’s fourth leader.  The 51-year-old son of  Kenya ’s first president, Jomo Kenyatta, told thousands of people gathered at a stadium in the
capital, Nairobi, that his government will seek to boost jobs
and spur economic growth to help foster peace and unity.  “We are calling and working towards permanent peace in
which democracy is glorified, rather than undermined,” Kenyatta
said in his inaugural speech attended by several African leaders,
including Nigeria’s Goodluck Jonathan and  South Africa ’s  Jacob Zuma .  Kenyatta takes office while having to defend himself
against charges of crimes against humanity for allegedly fueling
ethnic violence that marred elections in 2007. He is scheduled
to face trial at the  International Criminal Court  in The Hague
in July.  William Ruto , 46, who was sworn in as deputy president
today, will face similar charges in May.  Kenyatta took 50.07 percent of ballots cast on March 4,
enough to avoid a runoff with outgoing Prime Minister  Raila Odinga , who then challenged the result in court. Odinga was
defeated twice before, in 1997 and 2007. In the last election,
ethnic clashes led to 1,100 deaths and 350,000 people being
displaced from their homes in more than two months of fighting.  Foreign Policy  The court charges “will remain a key source of uncertainty
and could disrupt government functioning,” the London-based
Economist Intelligence Unit said in a statement on its website
today. “Although the defendants have promised to cooperate with
the court, the cases will also complicate  foreign policy , as
most Western nations maintain a policy of having only
‘essential’ contact with ICC suspects.”  In a speech at the inauguration,  Yoweri Museveni , president
of neighboring Uganda, congratulated Kenyans for “the rejection
of the blackmail by the International Criminal Court and those
who seek to abuse this institution for their own agenda.”   Kenyatta pledged to create an “enabling environment” for
businesses, tackle joblessness as a priority and improve
electricity supply. Kenya is the world’s largest exporter of
black tea and supplies a third of the flowers traded in  Europe .  Shilling Gains  The shilling, sub-Saharan Africa’s fifth-best performing
currency this year, has strengthened 1.5 percent since the
election. It fell 0.3 percent to 84.70 per dollar as of 7:22
p.m. in Nairobi today. The Nairobi Securities Exchange All-Share
Index, the world’s fourth-best performer this year, has risen 13
percent since the election, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “The first challenge is how to square the campaign
promises with the reality of government,” Aly Khan Satchu,
chief executive officer of Rich Management Ltd., a Nairobi-based
adviser to companies and high net-worth individuals, said in an
e-mail. “The second challenge is to build on the economic
tailwinds which have come via a de-risking of Kenya and the
peaceful election.”  The  International Monetary Fund  estimates the economy will
expand as much as 6 percent this year, up from 5 percent in
2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  