-- UN Emission Credits Surge as Developers Delay Carbon Claims
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2013-04-09T16:44:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/un-emission-credits-surge-as-developers-delay-carbon-cut-claims.html
Emission credits issued by the
 United Nations  surged 38 percent this month amid speculation
that project developers are snapping up contracts in the market
to meet commitments as they delay claims for carbon cuts,
according Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  Certified Emission Reductions for December traded at 40
cents ($0.52) a metric ton on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in
London after yesterday reaching a 12-week high of 43 cents. The
contracts, issued by the UN to encourage investment in climate-
protecting projects in emerging nations, are still down 91
percent from a year ago amid an oversupply.  The low price means the cost of monitoring and verifying
emission reductions can be more than developers make from
selling the credits, James Cooper, an analyst at New Energy
Finance in  London , said in an e-mail. Instead, they’re buying
credits in the market to meet agreements with buyers to deliver
the greenhouse-gas emission offsets, he said.  “These projects are likely to delay issuance indefinitely
in the hope that prices will rise,” Cooper said. “We’re likely
to see this affect the CER issuance rate, which is set to fall
sharply over the coming months.”  Under rules of the UN’s Clean Development Mechanism,
projects need to hire audit firms to make sure the reductions
are credible.  The amount of outstanding December CER contracts traded on
ICE increased 1.4 percent on April 8 to a record 60.7 million
tons, according to exchange data published yesterday.  ‘Scaling Back’  This month’s rise in the price of UN credits comes as
factories, power stations and airlines in the European Union
carbon market prepare to hand in allowances or offsets by the
end of the month to cover last year’s emissions.  “The December 2013 rally could be because CDM project
developers are scaling back planned issuance and closing their
hedges previously made,” Cooper said.  Prices may also be supported by the ban on industrial-gas
 emission credits  in  Europe , which starts in May, according to
Daniel Rossetto, a London-based director at carbon market
adviser Climate Mundial Ltd. The support stems from a drop of
about 20 million tons of CERs available for use in Phase 2 of
the EU’s emissions market, which started in 2008 and ran until
2012.  Emissions Targets  The EU has placed a limit of about 1.7 billion tons on the
amount of UN offsets that can be used to meet the bloc’s
emissions targets, according to its  website . That’s about half
the expected reductions under the EU’s carbon program from 2008
through 2020.  Because fewer credits may used in Phase 2, more can be made
available in Phase 3, which runs through 2020, according to
Rossetto. This supports the price of December CER contracts, the
benchmark for Phase 3, because demand for the credits is higher,
he said.  The bloc banned CERs covering projects reducing emissions
of some industrial gases, including those used in making air
conditioners and for producing plastics. Factories and power
stations in the EU carbon market can use the banned credits for
compliance through the end of this month to match last year’s
greenhouse gas emissions.  The producers of credits that will be banned, known as gray
CERs, “have run out of time as the clock stops soon,” Rossetto
said.  CERs for delivery this month were unchanged at 4 cents a
ton after dropping to record-low 3 cents on April 4, according
ICE data.  EU carbon allowances for December dropped as much as 10
percent to 4.66 euros a ton in London, ICE data show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net ;
Alessandro Vitelli in London at 
 avitelli1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rob Verdonck at 
 rverdonck@bloomberg.net  