-- UnitedHealth to Pay $500 Million Over Hepatitis Doctor
-- B y   V a l e r i e   M i l l e r   a n d   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2013-04-10T16:19:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/unitedhealth-to-pay-500-million-over-hepatitis-doctor.html
Two  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH)  units
must pay $500 million in punitive damages for failing to oversee
a doctor blamed for giving colonoscopy patients hepatitis C
through shoddy medical practices, a Nevada jury found.  Jurors in state court in Las Vegas deliberated more than
six hours yesterday before handing down the punitive-damages
award against Health Plan of Nevada and Sierra Health Services
for turning a blind eye to  Dipak Desai ’s actions. The
gastroenterologist has been blamed for infecting HMO patients
with hepatitis C by reusing anesthetic vials and failing to
sterilize equipment.  The award, the largest U.S. verdict this year, came less
than a week after the same jury ordered the UnitedHealth units
to pay a total of $24 million in compensatory damages to Bonnie
Brunson and Helen Meyer, two of Desai’s former patients who
contracted hepatitis after having colonoscopies performed by the
doctor.  The trial is the first against units of Minnetonka,
Minnesota-based UnitedHealth over the 2007 hepatitis C  outbreak .
Nevada officials were forced to notify 50,000 patients they may
have contracted the potentially fatal blood disease from Desai’s
miscues.  The total $524 million award is the largest in the U.S. in
2013, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The next largest,
for $400 million, is an award against  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)  over
claims the company conspired to fix urethane prices. That award
is subject to tripling under U.S. antitrust laws. UnitedHealth’s
3.95 percent bonds, set to mature in October 2042, fell more
than 1.1 percent today according to Trace, the bond-price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority,
in the wake of the Nevada verdict.  ‘Fantasy Damages’  “The number announced today has no grounding whatsoever in
reality,” Tyler Mason, a UnitedHealth spokesman, said yesterday
in an e-mailed statement. “It represents fantasy damages, not
punitive damages.”  Health Plan of Nevada officials said on a  website  created
to provide information about the trial that Brunson’s and
Meyer’s cases were “driven only by attorney greed.” The
insurers officials said yesterday they are planning to appeal
the jury’s findings in the case.  The verdicts against the UnitedHealth care subsidiaries
could set a “new legal precedent that is potentially of longer-
term concern for all health plans,  Sheryl Skolnick , co-head of
research at  Stamford , Connecticut-based CRT Capital Group LLC,
said in a note to investors today.  Other States  The jury’s decision to hold the insurers responsible for
Desai’s malpractice could prompt other states to follow Nevada’s
lead and pass laws allowing such suits, Skolnick said. She has a
buy rating on UnitedHealth’s shares.  Lawyers for Brunson, 70, and Meyer, 76, had asked jurors to
award a total of $2.5 billion in punitive damages against the
UnitedHealth units, which they said represents 15 percent of the
companies’ profits over a 10-year-period.  The verdict should help prod insurers to put the quality of
services provided by their doctors ahead of profits, Robert
Eglet, Brunson’s lawyer, said in an interview after the verdict
was announced.  ‘‘Insurance companies make hundreds of millions of dollars
and patients still don’t get the kind of care” to which they
are entitled, the lawyer added.  Teva Verdicts  Nevada juries already have handed down multimillion-dollar
punitive awards against  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) ,
maker of the anesthetic Propofol that Desai reused in his
procedures. Three juries awarded colonoscopy patients more than
$750 million in punitive damages over the drugmaker’s decision
to sell the anesthetic in oversized vials that invited such
reuse.  Teva, based in Petach Tikva,  Israel , agreed last year to
pay $250 million to settle more than 80 lawsuits over Propofol
sales.  Desai, 62, and two nurse anesthetists face second-degree
murder charges over the death of a colonoscopy patient. The
former doctor also faces federal fraud charges. Desai is set to
go to trial  April 22  on charges filed by state prosecutors.  Last week, jurors found the UnitedHealth units were
negligent for failing to properly monitor Desai’s performance
and “acted in bad faith.” That left the companies open to a
punitive-damage award.  ‘Loud Enough’  Robert Eglet, Brunson’s lawyer, urged jurors to return a
hefty punitive award to send a message to insurers to properly
monitor doctors they hire for their HMO networks.  The message had to be “loud enough to hear from Las Vegas
to Wall Street,” Eglet told the panel in arguments over the
punishment damages.  Lee Roberts, a lawyer for the UnitedHealth units, countered
that the companies had been sufficiently punished by the $24
million jurors awarded in compensatory damages and urged the
panel to forgo a punitive award.  If UnitedHealth had to face a $2.5 billion punitive
judgment, the “amount would destroy us,” Roberts added.  Meyer and Brunson sued under a  Nevada  law requiring HMOs to
file annual reports showing officials reviewed the quality of
health services provided to their members.  The women’s lawyers argued officials of the UnitedHealth
units knew Desai had a reputation for sloppy practice before
giving him a contract to handle colonoscopies and then didn’t
check the quality of his work. At one point, Desai was a member
of  Nevada’s Board of Medical Examiners , which oversees the
licensing of doctors in the state.  Cavalier Attitude  During the trial,  witnesses  said Desai adopted a cavalier
attitude toward patient safety, speeding through procedures so
he could see as many as 20 patients in a three-hour period.  The women’s lawyers argued the insurers’ executives had an
obligation to insure Desai was providing quality care to their
HMO members and were required to vet his practices before hiring
him.  Lawyers for the UnitedHealth units argued in court papers
that health insurers shouldn’t be responsible for providing
full-time monitoring of physicians hired as part of an HMO
network. Health Plan of Nevada said Desai had been credentialed
at several Nevada hospitals when it hired him.  The companies’ attorneys also said in court filings that
Judge Timothy Williams wrongfully prevented them from putting on
their full defense to the women’s claims.  The UnitedHealth units sought to show that administrators
followed established practices when vetting doctors for their
networks. Williams refused to allow jurors to hear that
evidence.  The insurers also contend Williams erred in excluding files
showing Nevada officials who inspected Desai’s clinic “never
uncovered any evidence of supposed wrongdoing” at the facility.  The case is Meyer v. Health Plan of Nevada Inc., A5837999
(Consolidated), Clark County District Court (Las Vegas).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  