-- Vodacom Mimics Apple in Revamp of South African Shops
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2013-04-11T18:15:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/vodacom-mimics-apple-in-revamp-of-phone-stores-in-south-africa.html
(Corrects share price in 10th paragraph of story published
April 10.)  Vodacom Group Ltd. (VOD) , South  Africa ’s
largest wireless carrier, is revamping its retail stores to
offer services similar to those popularized by Apple Inc.  Consumers will be able to test products such as mobile
phones and tablets and consult technicians at support stations
comparable to Cupertino, California-based Apple’s Genius Bar,
according to Vodacom Chief Executive Officer Shameel Joosub. The
company is testing the project at three outlets before expanding
to more of its 270 stores in the country.  Shopping at Vodacom will “be more closely aligned to the
Apple experience than a normal transactional experience that we
have today,” Joosub, who took over as CEO this month, said in
an interview at the company’s headquarters in Johannesburg.  Vodacom, which is 65 percent-owned by  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) ,
is seeking ways to expand its business after local mobile sales
fell in the three months through December. Mobile voice revenue,
which accounts for about half of the company’s South African
sales, slipped 2.3 percent to 7.6 billion rand ($852 million) in
the quarter. Mobile messaging dropped 5.6 percent.  “It is operators looking for other things than price to
compete on,” David Lerche, an analyst at Avior Research Ltd.,
said by phone. “They would both rather compete on quality and
marketing than on price. There’s price pressure coming from Cell
C as well as 8ta and Telkom mobile to a lesser extent.”  European Slide  Vodacom is becoming increasingly important for its parent
as Newbury, England-based Vodafone struggles to halt a slide in
its European business. Vodacom surpassed Vodafone’s U.K. unit in
2010 by profit, and outpaced the Spanish division the following
year.  Joosub was appointed head of Vodafone’s Spanish business in
2010, having previously been at Vodacom for more than 15 years.
In July last year, he was named successor to Vodacom CEO Pieter Uys, who resigned after four years.  Vodacom also sells services in  Lesotho ,  Mozambique ,
 Tanzania  and the Democratic Republic of Congo. South Africa
accounted for almost 85 percent of its revenue last quarter.  The company’s shares have trailed those of  MTN Group Ltd. (MTN) 
They have gained 0.6 percent in the past 12 months, while MTN
have  gained  25 percent, valuing Africa’s largest mobile-phone
operator at 309 billion rand.  Vodacom shares, which have fallen about 11 percent this
year, rose 1.2 percent to 110.3 rand at the close of trading in
Johannesburg today, giving the company a market value of 164
billion rand.  Problem Focus  “We’ll be focusing on the root-cause problem,” Joosub,
41, said in an interview last week. “We’re trying to ensure
that we have clear differentiation when we compare our store
with our competitors’.”  An in-store advisory service could help remedy existing
phone support that shopper Clinton Hawley called inadequate.  “I find them pretty good, but when phoning in, the advice
is a bit pathetic,” the 27-year-old mechanical engineer said
outside a Vodacom store in Sandton City, Johannesburg.  The wireless-service provider has about 270 stores in South
Africa, including those operated by franchises, while MTN
operates about 450 stores in the country including franchises,
according to MTN spokeswoman Matebello Motloung.  Apple (AAPL) , which has a market value of about $408 billion,
doesn’t have retail stores in Africa, according to its website,
though products including iPhones and iPads are sold through a
reseller network across the continent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  