-- Vodka Seller CEDC Gets May Hearing to Seek Approval of Plan
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 2013-04-09T16:59:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/vodka-seller-cedc-wins-approval-of-may-hearing-on-recovery-plan.html
Vodka seller  Central European
Distribution Corp. (CEDC) , headed by Russian billionaire Roustam Tariko, will seek court approval of its so-called prepackaged
restructuring plan just over a month after filing for
bankruptcy.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Christopher Sontchi  granted the
Warsaw, Poland-based company’s request to hold a May 13 hearing
on the plan saying “this is a true pre-pack plan with
overwhelming creditor support,” at a hearing today in
Wilmington,  Delaware .  “This should be a quick, fully consensual pre-packed plan
of reorganization,” said CEDC attorney Jay Goffman at today’s
hearing. To ensure that operations aren’t disrupted it is
essential that the plan be approved in about 35 days, he said.  The plan, negotiated with and voted on by creditors before
the bankruptcy filing, would eliminate about $665.2 million in
debt from CEDC’s and unit CEDC FinCo’s balance sheets, according
to an April 7 statement.  2013 and 2016 note holders voted 99 percent and 97 percent
respectively to accept the plan, the company said in the
statement. Under the restructuring proposal, holders of existing
2016 notes would receive $822 million, consisting of $172
million in cash, $450 million in new secured notes and $200
million in new convertible notes for an estimated recovery of
about 83.7 percent.  2013 Notes  Holders of existing 2013 notes would get the option to
partake in a separate offering from Tariko’s Roust Trading Ltd.
for a share of $25 million in cash and $30 million in Roust
Trading notes, for a projected recovery of about 35 percent. The
note holders that don’t participate in the Roust offering with
split $16.9 million in cash, according to the statement.  Once the proposed turnaround is completed all of
reorganized CEDC’s equity would be owned by Roust Trading.
Current shareholders are slated to receive nothing under the
plan. Tariko would like to provide them with a “gift” of about
$5 million out of his own pocket if allowed, Goffman told
Sontchi.  The recovery plan also includes a new $100 million
unsecured loan from an affiliate of  Alfa Group . The
restructuring doesn’t involve operating subsidiaries in  Poland ,
 Russia , Ukraine or  Hungary , according to the release.  The maker of Bols vodka listed $1.98 billion in assets and
$1.73 billion in debt in bankruptcy court documents filed April
7.  Beer Importer  The company’s financial challenges surfaced after almost
two decades of success in Poland. CEDC traces its roots to 1991
as the exclusive importer of  Anheuser-Busch (ABI)  beer in Poland,
according to its website. In 1998 it went public in  New York 
with 2 million shares, and in 2005 it began distilling vodka.
CEDC then expanded into Hungary, Russia and Ukraine.  The company said in court filings that it’s the largest
integrated spirits beverage business by volume in central and
Eastern Europe.  CEDC expanded into Russia just as Poles began drinking less
vodka and Russia raised taxes and costs to discourage alcohol
consumption. The global financial crisis, a 37 percent collapse
in Russia’s currency, and accounting errors exacerbated the
situation.  Russians drank less vodka in 2011 than they did in 2008,
while Poles cut back by 7.7 percent, based on volume sales
compiled by International Wine & Spirit Research, known as IWSR.  The case is In re Central European Distribution Corp., 13-
10738,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  