-- VW Says Markets More Challenging as March Sales Decline
-- B y   C h a d   T h o m a s
-- 2013-04-09T10:25:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/vw-says-markets-more-challenging-as-march-sales-decline.html
Volkswagen AG (VOW) , Europe’s biggest
automaker, said markets are becoming “more challenging” after
posting a sales decline at the namesake brand last month.  The Volkswagen marque’s deliveries in March fell 0.8
percent from a year earlier to 532,400 vehicles as demand
plunged in the manufacturer’s home region, the Wolfsburg,
Germany-based carmaker said in a statement today. First-quarter
sales gained 5.2 percent to 1.43 million cars.  “Markets are becoming more difficult, and in some cases
decidedly more challenging,” Christian Klingler, VW’s sales
chief, said in the statement.  The VW brand’s first-quarter deliveries in Europe dropped
10 percent as sales in  Germany , the region’s largest market,
plummeted 15 percent. Auto executives are forecasting a sixth
straight annual decline for the industry in  Europe  this year as
the region’s waning economy stifles demand. Volkswagen’s
financial-services division said today that economic growth in
the world’s main industrial nations will remain “muted.”  VW  fell  as much as 1.9 percent to 153.20 euros and was
trading down 1.4 percent at 12:22 p.m. in Frankfurt. The stock
has declined 11 percent this year, valuing the company at 69
billion euros ($90 billion).  The carmaker forecast last month that earnings this year
won’t grow, with first-quarter figures dropping from a year
earlier, as the European sovereign-debt crisis leads to a sixth
annual contraction in the region’s car market as industrywide
sales expansions slow in  China . Frank Witter, head of the
financial-services division, said today that the unit’s
operating profit in 2013 will probably match the 1.41 billion
euros posted last year.  “Due to the rather weak economy we don’t expect
significant interest rate increases in 2013,” Witter said at a
press conference in  Frankfurt . “The persistent debt crisis will
continue to cause insecurity and volatility on financial
markets.”  The Volkswagen brand’s first-quarter sales gained 7.3
percent in North America and 21 percent in the Asia-Pacific
region, where Chinese and Hong Kong sales jumped 24 percent.
Growth was held back by drops of 19 percent in  India  and 7.3
percent in South America.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chad Thomas in Berlin at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  