-- Warsaw Exchange Said to Hold Talks With Vienna Exchange
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d ,   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l   a n d   K o n r a d   K r a s u s k i
-- 2013-04-09T17:16:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/warsaw-exchange-said-to-hold-talks-with-vienna-exchange.html
The  Warsaw Stock Exchange (GPW)  and the
Vienna bourse are discussing a merger that would create a hub
for equities trading and initial share offerings in central and
eastern  Europe , said three people familiar with the talks.  Discussions between management and owners of the Vienna and
Warsaw exchanges are at a very early stage, said the people, who
asked not to be identified because the talks are private. The
negotiations may not lead to a transaction, the people said. The
Warsaw Exchange rose 0.8 percent to 38.90 Polish zloty at the
5:30 p.m. close in Warsaw, valuing the company at 1.63 billion
zloty ($520 million).  The talks come after years of rivalry between the two for
influence in the region. Vienna expanded by buying the bourses
in Ljubljana and  Prague  in 2008 and Budapest in 2004, beating
Warsaw’s bid for Prague. While Vienna and Prague had one initial
public offering apiece since 2011, Warsaw attracted 41 as it
lured companies by offering access to Poland’s cash-rich pension
and mutual funds.  “Creating one hub for the region would be a great
opportunity for the company to grab investors’ interest more
efficiently than now,” said Piotr Palenik, a Warsaw-based
analyst at ING Securities SA. “The key point is where the
decision center would be located after a merger. Market dynamics
are in favor of Warsaw, and the company should use this argument
to be in charge of the unified platform for the region.”  Inaugural Visit  Michael Buhl, chief executive officer of the Vienna
bourse’s parent company, CEE Stock Exchange Group, will meet
Warsaw’s new CEO, Adam Maciejewski, in coming days, Vienna
exchange spokeswoman Beatrix Exinger said by telephone today.
CEE Stock Exchange Group is interested in cooperation with
Warsaw, she said, declining further comment.  “We are ready to cooperate with Vienna, but that’s all I
can say today,” Warsaw Stock Exchange Deputy CEO Beata Jarosz
said during a panel discussion on Polish  capital markets  in
 London . “We’re observing what’s happening in Europe and we’re
ready to participate in pan-European consolidation.”  CEE Stock Exchange Group stands for Central and Eastern
Europe Stock Exchange Group and is based in Vienna. The holding
company is largely owned by Austrian banks and by companies
listed on the Vienna bourse, with  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , Erste Group
Bank AG and Vienna Insurance Group AG the biggest  shareholders .  ‘Equal Merger’  CEE Stock Exchange Group said in March last year that it’s
open to holding “merger of equals” talks with the Warsaw Stock
Exchange, its biggest rival. Prior to the Warsaw bourse’s IPO in
2010, Vienna had been interested in buying it. The CEO of Erste,
which is also one of Vienna’s biggest shareholders, said in
January that he would welcome the two bourses merging.  “This could be an interesting idea,” Polish Deputy
Treasury Minister Pawel Tamborski said in an interview in
London, when asked about merger talks. “I don’t have any
specifics. I know too little about it now.”  IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s $8.2 billion agreement in
December to buy NYSE Euronext has ignited a fresh round of talks
for exchange companies -- already the subject of $50 billion in
attempted takeovers in the past three years. European Union
regulators blocked  Deutsche Boerse  AG’s takeover of New York-
based NYSE Euronext in February 2012, citing concern that it
would harm competition.  Exchange Mergers  CME Group Inc. (CME) , the world’s largest futures exchange,
approached Deutsche Boerse to consider merger talks, four people
familiar with the situation said in February.  Hong Kong
Exchanges & Clearing Ltd. (388) , the world’s largest bourse by market
value, completed the $2.2 billion takeover of the London Metal
Exchange in December.  Both Warsaw and Vienna could also become targets of one of
their bigger rivals, according to Peter Lenardos, London-based
analyst at Royal Bank of  Canada . “It probably puts them both in
play,” he said. “Who would be interested? Deutsche Boerse
could take a look, maybe the Swiss and maybe the Japanese.”  The Warsaw Stock Exchange, central Europe’s biggest equity
market, lists about 438 companies on its main market, including
 PKO BP (PKO) , the largest Polish bank, and  PZU SA (PZU) , the country’s
biggest insurer, with a combined value of about 692 billion
zloty. The number of companies doubled in the last decade, with
81 new listings in 2007 and 3 so far this year.  Privatization Hub  The exchange, created in 1991 to facilitate privatization,
is controlled by the Polish Treasury, which holds 35 percent of
its shares and a voting majority. The treasury considered
selling a controlling stake in the exchange to Deutsche Boerse
in 2009, then opted for an IPO in late 2010.  In 2010, the Warsaw bourse entered a strategic partnership
with NYSE Euronext and decided to purchase NYSE’s trading
system. The technological change, which will allow Warsaw to
accept high-frequency orders, is scheduled to take place April
15. In 2009, the company bought MTS-CeTo, a platform for Polish
government-bond trading, from Italy’s MTS SpA and local banks.  The combined domestic market capitalization of Vienna,
Prague, Budapest and Ljubljana was 130 billion euros ($170
billion) at the end of January, according to the most recent
data on CEESEG’s website, which is roughly equivalent to
Warsaw’s 514 billion zloty at the end of March. Trading volume
at the Vienna-led group amounted to 6 billion euros in January
and February, compared with about 8.9 billion euros in Warsaw.  Founded by Empress  The Vienna bourse was founded by Empress Maria Theresa in
1771, when the Hapsburg Empire encompassed  Austria ,  Hungary ,
 Croatia , Bohemia, as well as parts of today’s northern Italy,
Belgium and Poland. It initially focused on bonds and
currencies, and  stock trading  started in 1818.  After the breakdown of Austria-Hungary following the first
World War, Vienna remained a trading center for companies from
the empire’s successor states such as Hungary,  Czechoslovakia ,
or what was then  Yugoslavia . By 1937, 75 of the 205 stock
listings were from those states, according to the exchange’s
website.  The biggest companies listed in Vienna are Erste, eastern
Europe’s third-biggest lender, and oil and gas group OMV AG.
Prague’s bourse is dominated by utility  CEZ AS (CEZ) , and Budapest by
Mol Nyrt and by OTP Bank Nyrt.  The Vienna group’s 239 listings are about half of Warsaw’s.
 AMAG Austria Metall AG (AMAG) ’s IPO in April 2011 was Vienna’s most
recent debut, and the first since October 2007.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net ;
Konrad Krasuski in Warsaw at 
 kkrasuski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  