-- Weatherford in Play After Record Bid for Lufkin: Real M&A
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 2013-04-09T14:17:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/weatherford-in-play-after-record-bid-for-lufkin-real-m-a.html
General Electric Co. (GE) ’s planned
purchase of pump maker  Lufkin Industries Inc. (LUFK)  at the industry’s
most expensive price tag is highlighting demand for oilfield
equipment that may make  Weatherford International Ltd. (WFT)  and Tesco
Corp. the next targets.  GE said yesterday that it agreed to buy the Lufkin, Texas-
based manufacturer for about $3.3 billion as part of efforts to
expand in oil and gas services. GE estimates that 94 percent of
existing oil wells use so-called artificial-lift pumps to help
draw out the fuel, illustrating the need for the equipment made
by Lufkin and its main competitor Weatherford. Oracle Investment
Research said Weatherford, which commands 40 percent of the
market for rod lifts, may also draw takeover interest.  GE’s offer values the pump maker at almost 17 times its
 profit  in the past 12 months, the highest on record among
similar-sized oilfield equipment deals, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Among other candidates,  Flotek Industries
Inc. (FTK) , a $761 million maker of well equipment and specialty
chemicals, could appeal to  Halliburton (HAL)  Co. or  National Oilwell
Varco Inc. (NOV) , while Tesco’s rig-automation technology could draw
buyers to the Houston-based company, according to Stephens Inc.  Lufkin owners are getting “a fabulous price,” James Wicklund, a Dallas-based analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG, said
in a telephone interview. “I’m sure that when the SEC document
comes out, we’ll see that Lufkin talked to several potential
buyers, and I would expect that the larger cap oilfield service
companies are all looking for strategic acquisitions.”  Steep Multiple  Anne Pearson, a spokeswoman for Lufkin who works at
Dennard-Lascar Associates LLC, declined to comment on whether
the company received interest from other suitors.  GE is paying $88.50 a share for Lufkin, or about $3.3
billion including net debt. The offer values the maker of rod
lifts at almost 17 times its $195 million of trailing 12-month
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization.
That ranks as the steepest multiple ever paid for an oilfield-
equipment deal larger than $1 billion, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  The offer is almost 14 times analysts’ average  estimate  for
Ebitda in 2013, the data show.  “It’s a pretty pleasant surprise valuation,” said Tim Beranek, a  money manager  at Denver-based Cambiar Investors LLC,
which oversees about $7 billion and owns more than 500,000
Lufkin shares, according to the most recent filing.  Weatherford Appeal  The transaction implies that Weatherford, Lufkin’s closest
competitor, is undervalued and also may be an appealing takeover
candidate, said Laurence Balter, chief investment strategist at
Oracle Investment Research, which  owns  Weatherford stock.  Even after Weatherford’s shares surged yesterday by the
most in almost three months on the Lufkin news, the Geneva-based
company’s $18 billion enterprise value, which includes $8.3
billion of net debt, is equal to just 7.3 times its trailing 12-
month Ebitda,  data  compiled by Bloomberg show.  Today, Weatherford shares were unchanged at $12.49 at 10:01
a.m.  “It’s mega cheap,” Balter said in a phone interview from
Fox Island,  Washington . “It remains a great acquisition target.
There’s a very high barrier to entry in this business.”  Accounting issues at Weatherford that had wiped out half
its market value are mostly behind the company, according to
Credit Suisse’s Wicklund.  Fading Issues  “Most of the issues that would stop Weatherford from being
a target are probably gone with the closing of their financials
for 2012,” Wicklund said.  The U.S. government also is investigating the company for
possible violation of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. A deal
is unlikely until that’s resolved, J.  David Anderson , an analyst
at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  New York , wrote today in an e-mail.  Karen David-Green, a spokeswoman for Weatherford, didn’t
respond to a phone call or e-mail seeking comment.  Flotek, a maker of oilfield chemicals, also rose yesterday,
climbing more than 3 percent for the biggest gain in almost a
month. It would make sense for Halliburton, the world’s second-
largest oilfield servicer and one of Flotek’s  customers , to
pursue its Houston-based supplier, said Michael Marino, an
analyst at Stephens. National Oilwell Varco, with a market value
of $29 billion, could also pursue Flotek, he said.  “Flotek could benefit from a larger distribution platform
that the bigger guys might have,” Marino said in a phone
interview from Houston. “Oilfield chemicals is a growing
business right now and people want more exposure.”  Tesco Technology  Tesco (TESO) ’s rig-automation technology is attractive to a lot of
different manufacturers, Marino said. Producers, servicers and
equipment makers are working on technology to take humans out of
the most repetitive, dangerous and time-consuming parts of
oilfield work.  Today, Flotek shares fell 0.5 percent to $15.99, while
Tesco rose 0.9 percent to $12.24.  Representatives at Tesco, which has a market value of $473
million, and Flotek didn’t respond to phone calls or e-mails
seeking comment on whether they have been approached or would
consider a sale. Susie McMichael, a spokeswoman for Houston-
based Halliburton, declined in an e-mail to comment on the
company’s interest in a takeover, while Clay Williams, chief
financial officer at Houston-based National Oilwell Varco,
didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  Expensive Valuations  While there are other attractive oilfield equipment makers,
buyers may balk at their expensive valuations, said Cambiar’s
Beranek. Oil and gas services companies larger than $1 billion
command a median Ebitda multiple of 8.9, while Halliburton,
 Baker Hughes Inc. (BHI)  and National Oilwell Varco -- three of the
industry’s biggest companies -- trade for less than 7 times
Ebitda, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Schlumberger Ltd. (SLB) , the
world’s largest oil-services company, has a ratio of 9.6.  “There aren’t a lot of other companies like GE out there
that necessarily would be able to come in and buy a company at
these sorts of valuations and make it make sense,” Beranek
said.  Still, with  capital expenditures  at the four largest oil-
service companies having more than quadrupled over the last six
years, that underscores the demand for related equipment, said
Credit Suisse’s Wicklund.  The oilfield services and equipment industry is poised to
grow as customers pay more to reach harder-to-find hydrocarbons.
Global exploration and production spending is expected to climb
5.5 percent this year to a record $645 billion,  James Crandell ,
an analyst at Cowen Group Inc. in New York, wrote in January in
a note to investors.  “There are a number of companies that are looking for
strategic additions to their current product offerings,” Credit
Suisse’s Wicklund said. “Anybody smaller than them is a
potential target.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  