-- Weil, Debevoise, King & Spalding, Locke: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-04-09T11:19:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/weil-debevoise-king-spalding-locke-business-of-law.html
Weil Gotshal & Manges LLP advised
General Electric Co. on its proposed purchase of  Lufkin
Industries Inc. (LUFK)  for about $3.3 billion. Lufkin’s legal adviser
was Bracewell & Giuliani LLP.  The Weil team was led by corporate partners R. Jay Tabor
and Danielle Do and included corporate partners Howard Chatzinoff and P.J. Himelfarb. Other partners included Kimberly Blanchard and Chayim Neubort, tax matters; Charan Sandhu,
technology and IP transactions; Michael Kam, employee benefits;
David Berz, environmental matters; Chip Roh and Steven Tyrrell,
regulatory matters; and Samuel Zylberberg, real estate.  Bracewell’s partners include Lance W. Behnke, tax; Daniel E. Hemli, antitrust; Bruce R. Jocz, benefits; Robert S. Nichols,
labor; Gary W. Orloff, Michael S. Telle, and Daniel R. Witschey,
corporate; and Tim Wilkins, environmental.  The deal would bring GE technologies for the oil and gas
industry as Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Immelt  raises his
bet on energy.  Lufkin shareholders will receive $88.50 a share in cash,
and the deal should close in the second half, GE said in a
statement yesterday. The price is 38 percent more than the
$63.93 close on April 5 for the Lufkin, Texas-based
manufacturer.  Oil and gas is GE’s fastest-growing segment, with sales up
57 percent to $15.2 billion since 2009, and Immelt accelerated
that expansion with $11 billion of purchases during a six-month
period ended in 2011. Lufkin provides so-called artificial lift,
which helps bring hydrocarbons to the surface in low-pressure
reservoirs and boosts efficiency in naturally flowing wells.  For more, click here.  News  Ex-Prosecutor White Wins Senate Approval as New SEC Chairman  The Senate confirmed former Manhattan U.S. attorney and
Debevoise & Plimpton LLP partner Mary Jo White to lead the
Securities and Exchange Commission, putting her in charge of an
agency that has failed to satisfy critics with its response to
the financial crisis.  The Senate approved White by unanimous consent, meaning no
senators objected to her appointment, as the first former
prosecutor to run the SEC. She succeeds Elisse B. Walter, who
has served as chairman since  Mary Schapiro  stepped down in
December.  White overcame questions about her past work for financial
institutions such as  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and
 UBS AG. (UBS)  White, 65, will retire from Debevoise, where she earned
$2.4 million last year, she said in an ethics disclosure letter.  The SEC regulates  stock exchanges , brokers and money
managers, and imposes penalties for violations of  securities
law . It has been governed by only four commissioners -- two
Democrats and two Republicans -- since Schapiro left.  The addition of White means the commission, now with three
Democratic appointees, could move forward more quickly with new
regulations. It has been considering rules covering restrictions
on money-market mutual funds, executive-pay disclosure and
financial advisers to municipalities.  The commission may proceed slowly under White because she
lacks a background in policy making. Her Senate nomination
hearing last month yielded few details about her regulatory
philosophy.  For more, click here.  Moves  King & Spalding Adds Ex-Justice Official to Antitrust Practice  Wendy Huang Waszmer, the former assistant chief of the New
York office of the U.S.  Justice Department ’s antitrust division,
is joining King & Spalding LLP as a partner in the firm’s New
York office.  Waszmer has experience in global cartel defense, as well as
government civil investigations including antitrust,  False
Claims Act  and other matters, the law firm said. She tried the
2012 case against three former  General Electric Co. (GE)  bankers who
were found guilty by a federal jury in Manhattan of defrauding
cities and the  Internal Revenue Service  in a bid-rigging scheme
involving municipal bonds.  “Her deep knowledge of the complex issues that financial
institutions face and investigative experience in a range of
civil and government settings will be invaluable to our
clients,” Robert E. Meadows, leader of King & Spalding’s
business litigation practice said in a statement.  In her position at the Justice Department, Waszmer
supervised a 40-person legal staff, led civil and criminal
investigations and served as liaison with federal and state
enforcement agencies in antitrust investigations, the firm said.
While she was assistant chief, the office convicted every
defendant it tried, the firm said.  King & Spalding has 800 lawyers in 17 offices in the U.S.,
Europe, the Middle East and Asia.  Former Federal Prosecutor Andrew Fish Joins Locke Lord  Andrew Fish, a former federal prosecutor, joined Locke Lord
LLP’s New York office as a partner in its nationwide white-
collar and internal-investigations practice.  Fish served in the criminal division of the Manhattan U.S.
Attorney’s Office for 14 years, most recently as deputy chief of
the appeals unit and previously with the securities and
commodities fraud task force and the major crimes unit, the firm
said in a statement.  He was trial counsel in 13 criminal jury trials, including
some involving charges of  insider trading  and securities market
manipulation, the firm said. Fish also appeared regularly before
the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in New York, where he represented the
government in several insider-trading cases, including that of
Raj Rajaratnam, the co-founder of Galleon Group LLC who is
serving an 11-year prison sentence.  Locke Lord has more than 650 lawyers in 11 U.S. offices.  Virginia Democratic Party Official Roberts Joins Venable  Lawrence Roberts , a senior Democratic Party official and
former counsel to Virginia Governor  Tim Kaine  is joining Venable
LLP as partner in the legislative group.  Roberts was campaign chairman and senior strategist for
both Kaine’s 2005 gubernatorial and 2012 U.S. Senate campaigns.
He also was counselor to the governor for three years. Following
Kaine’s election to the Senate in 2012, Roberts became senior
adviser to the transition team.  Roberts, who will work in the Washington and Tysons Corner,
Virginia, offices, held key positions with the  Democratic
National Committee  from 2009-12, first as chief of staff to the
chairman and then as senior adviser to the  executive director ,
the firm said.  Venable has more than 500 lawyers at eight U.S. offices.  Law Firms  Howrey Settles to Recover Share of Liability Insurer’s Net Worth  The trustee for Howrey LLP, a liquidating law firm, reached
a settlement with the firm’s legal malpractice insurer,
Attorneys’ Liability Assurance Society Inc.  ALAS is an insurance company owned by the law firms it
insures. The largest part of the settlement stems from Howrey’s
$7.6 million share of ALAS’s net worth.  The settlement calls for ALAS to pay the trustee $1.4
million immediately, with additional payments in the same
amounts in May of 2014 through 2016.  ALAS will hold back $2 million to recover the deductible
Howrey is required to pay on claims. To the extent not used up,
the holdback eventually will be paid to the Howrey trustee.  Howrey partners lost control of the liquidation when the
bankruptcy court authorized the appointment of a Chapter 11
trustee in September 2011. The firm, once known for expertise in
antitrust and intellectual property law, filed under Chapter 11
in June 2011 following an involuntary filing in April 2011.  The bankruptcy is in  San Francisco , where the firm had one
if its 19 offices around the world. The firm shut down in March
2011. Howrey’s main office had been in Washington. It previously
was known as Howrey & Simon and Howrey Simon Arnold & White LLP.
At one time, the firm had more than 700 lawyers.  The case is In re Howrey LLP, 11-bk-31376,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Northern District of California (San Francisco).  Video  Cybersecurity Lobby Booming: How Law Firms Can Profit  In recent months, a wave of lawyers and consultants has
taken to lobbying various members of the federal government on
cybersecurity issues.  David Ransom, partner at McDermott Will & Emery LLP, talked
with Bloomberg Law’s Lee Pacchia about how a range of industries
is concerned about the potential effects of cybersecurity
legislation on their respective businesses.  “The reason you’re seeing all these lobbying registrations
on this issue is just the breadth of the industries affected,”
he said.  This is a Bloomberg podcast. To download, watch or listen
to this report now, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  