-- Wells Fargo Sells Servicing on Fannie Mae Loans to Walter
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-04-09T20:17:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/wells-fargo-sells-servicing-on-fannie-mae-loans-to-walter-1-.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the nation’s
biggest home lender, sold servicing rights to $12.2 billion of
reverse mortgages to  Walter Investment Management Corp. (WAC)   The loans are owned by Fannie Mae, and Wells Fargo will
continue to service other reverse-mortgage loans in its
portfolio, Vickee Adams, a spokeswoman for the San Francisco-
based bank, said in an e-mail. Terms weren’t disclosed in a
statement today from Tampa, Florida-based Walter.  Wells Fargo was ranked as the largest U.S. residential
mortgage servicer at the end of December, with contracts on
$1.87 trillion in unpaid home loans. The bank said in 2011 that
it would stop originating reverse mortgages. Today’s transaction
won’t significantly affect  earnings, Adams said.  Wells Fargo’s decision to exit the business was tied to the
possibility that home values would fall, according to its
statement at the time. Prices declined 5.3 percent from the end
of that month through March last year before rebounding 9
percent through January, according to the  S&P/Case-Shiller index 
of data from 20 U.S. cities.  Today’s transaction, which involves 76,000 loans, will
double the size of Walter’s serviced book and be completed in
the third quarter, according to the statement.  Reverse-mortgage lenders issue loans to homeowners and
accept real estate equity as collateral, allowing borrowers, age
62 or older, to remain in their homes and receive either a lump-
sum payment or a stream of income. Mortgage servicers handle
billing and collections on behalf of lenders or investors that
own the loans and oversee foreclosures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rick Green in  New York  at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  