-- What All Americans Should Remember on Appomattox Day
-- B y   M a u r y   K l e i n
-- 2013-04-09T13:43:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/what-all-americans-should-remember-on-appomattox-day.html
Today marks the 148th anniversary of
a major turning point in U.S. history that is neither
universally remembered nor uniformly celebrated.  On April 9, 1865, Robert E. Lee surrendered the Army of
Northern Virginia to  Ulysses S. Grant  in Appomattox Court House,
Virginia. The bloodiest and most devastating war in U.S.
history, one that cost about 620,000 lives, came to an end after
four long years.  Most Americans understand that the Civil War accomplished
two huge goals: It preserved the nation’s unity and freed the
slaves.  However, the crisis had another result that often goes
unnoticed. The secession of southern states from the Union in
1860-61, with its exodus of southerners from Congress, gave
control of that body to the  Republican Party , then less than a
decade old. During the war years, its domination enabled
Congress to enact sweeping legislation that shaped the economy
and society for decades.  Four laws, in particular, would have far-reaching effects.
The  National Banking Act , enacted in February 1863 and amended
in June 1864, laid the foundation for modern finance by
establishing a national banking system.  National Currency  By requiring national banks to invest one-third of their
capital in U.S. securities and allowing them to issue bank notes
up to 90 percent of their bond holdings, the measure provided
the basis for a national currency to replace state bank notes.
In March 1865, Congress imposed a 10 percent tax on state bank
notes to drive them out of circulation. Although far from
perfect, the new system dominated national finance until the
advent of the  Federal Reserve System  in 1914.  The  Homestead Act , signed in May 1862, allowed any citizen,
including women and freed slaves, to file a claim for 160 acres
of surveyed federal land -- provided they were at least 21 years
old or head of a household and had never taken up arms against
the government. Although much of the land fell into the hands of
speculators, the act opened up settlement of the West to large
numbers of people who could otherwise have never afforded the
land.  The  Pacific Railroad Acts  of 1862 and 1864 made possible
construction of the first rail line from the Missouri River to
the West Coast, thereby connecting California and  Oregon  to the
rest of the nation. It also hastened the settlement and
development of the region in between, long dismissed by
easterners as the Great American Desert, and set in motion a
frenzy of railroad building.  The  Morrill Act  of July 1862 transformed education and
scientific research. Under its provisions, every loyal state was
granted 30,000 acres of public land for each senator and
representative it had in Congress. The proceeds from the sale of
the land were to be used for endowing at least one agricultural
college in the state. Ultimately, 69 land-grant colleges were
created, and they became the backbone of agricultural and other
kinds of research, as well as the mainstays of U.S. higher
education.  Prior to secession, every one of these acts got bogged down
in sectional politics after being debated for years. Two of
them, the Homestead and Morrill acts, passed Congress only to be
vetoed by President James Buchanan. All of them have proved
crucial to economic growth since the Civil War.  So, regardless of your sectional preference, it is worth
raising a toast on Appomattox Day.  (Maury Klein is a professor of history emeritus at the
University of  Rhode Island  and the author of 16 books on
American history. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Maury Klein at  mauryk1@verizon.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this post:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  