-- What’s So Radical About a Safer Financial System?
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-04-09T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/what-s-so-radical-about-a-safer-financial-system-.html
Momentum is building in  Washington 
for a reform that would make extremely large banks less
threatening to the U.S. economy. Opponents are calling it
“radical.” What’s actually radical -- and dangerously so -- is
the behavior it seeks to change.  Two senators, Democrat  Sherrod Brown  of  Ohio  and Republican
 David Vitter  of  Louisiana , plan to  offer  a bill that would
require banks to finance their businesses with more equity from
shareholders, as opposed to money borrowed from creditors. An
early draft, which takes up all of five pages, sets a simple
minimum of $1 in equity for each $10 in assets -- a measure far
easier to understand and enforce than the complex, risk-weighted
 capital ratios  that global regulators currently favor. For the
largest banks, the requirement would be $1.50 per $10 in assets,
or 15 percent.  The proposal is aimed at removing a major incentive for
banks to engage in unduly risky behavior: The more damaging a
bank’s failure would be to the economy, the more certain its
creditors can be that the government will come to the rescue in
an emergency. This too-big-to-fail status allows banks to borrow
money at lower rates than they otherwise would -- a taxpayer-
funded  subsidy  that encourages them to borrow recklessly, bloats
the financial sector and helps inflate credit bubbles.  Boosting Equity  Boosting equity levels addresses two problems at once. By
increasing the role of shareholders, who are first in line to
absorb any losses, the measure would make banks less likely to
fail. If a bank has 10 percent equity, also known as capital,
the value of its assets would have to decline 10 percent to
render it insolvent. Current U.S. rules require banks to have
capital of only 4 percent of assets, and use a lenient approach
to calculate the ratio.  Also, higher equity would expose the largest banks to
market discipline by reducing their access to taxpayer-
subsidized debt. They would have to compete with smaller
institutions and independent asset managers on a more equal
footing, a challenge that would test their all-in-one business
models and almost certainly reduce their profitability. Faced
with this reality, shareholders might rethink the generous pay
packages that executives enjoy, or even consider breaking down
the banks into more manageable and efficient units.  Banks have sought to characterize the senators’ proposal as
radical, portraying 10 percent or 15 percent capital as an
anachronism from the days before federal  deposit insurance  and
other 20th-century innovations. As Financial Services Forum
Chief Executive Officer  Rob Nichols , a senior bank lobbyist,  put
it : “Raising required capital to comically high levels will
severely restrict banks’ ability to lend to businesses and job
creators.”  It would be more accurate to say the current level of
equity at the largest U.S. banks is comically low. The typical
U.S. enterprise has equity of about 70 percent of assets.
 Research  by economists at the  Bank of England  and a new  book  by
financial economists Anat Admati and Martin Hellwig suggest that
banks need equity of at least 20 percent to avoid failures.
Under international accounting  standards , which are more
stringent than U.S. rules, the five largest U.S. banks by assets
-- JPMorgan Chase & Co, Citigroup Inc., Bank of America Corp.,
Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. -- had an average
tangible equity ratio of only 3.2 percent as of mid-2012. At the
same time, they commanded more than $14 trillion in assets,
almost equal to the  U.S. economy ’s entire annual output.  No Argument  The argument that more equity would restrict banks’ ability
to lend doesn’t stand up to scrutiny. Capital is not a rainy-day
fund that banks must set aside for emergencies. It is money they
can use to make loans. If banks raised more equity from
shareholders, their lending capacity would increase --
particularly in times of crisis, when the added capital would
shield them from distress. If investors don’t want to provide a
bank with equity, that’s a comment on the quality of the
enterprise and its management, not an adverse effect of
overweening regulation.  Tellingly, the equity requirements in the senators’
proposal would be a stretch primarily for the small group of
giant banks whose assets exceed the $400 billion threshold at
which the proposed 15 percent ratio kicks in. Rightly so: These
are precisely the institutions that have benefited most from the
taxpayer subsidy. Among 493 smaller banks tracked by Bloomberg,
the average tangible common-equity ratio was almost 9 percent as
of their latest financial filings. This is already very close to
the 10 percent requirement they would have to meet.  In other words, there’s nothing outrageous -- and very much
that is sensible -- in the ideas of Senators Brown and Vitter.
May lawmakers keep that in mind if and when the bill comes to a
vote.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 