-- Why Capitalism Won’t Change North Korea’s Regime
-- B y   A n d r e i   L a n k o v
-- 2013-04-09T22:00:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/why-capitalism-won-t-change-north-korea-s-regime.html
To an outside observer, the
behavior of the North Korean leadership often appears short-
sighted and irrational. There seems to be a tested and easy way
out of their predicament -- the path of Chinese-style economic
reforms. While such gradual capitalist reforms might be good for
the country, however, they would be far too dangerous for the
current North Korean elite. As a consequence, they’re unlikely
to be implemented anytime soon.  The history of  East Asia  after World War II has been, above
all, one of spectacular economic growth. From 1960 to 2000,
average per-capita gross-domestic-product growth in East Asia
reached 4.6 percent, while the same indicator for the world was
2.8 percent. In 1960, in terms of per-capita GDP, South  Korea 
ranked slightly below Somalia, while  Taiwan  lagged behind
 Senegal .  The remarkable economic transformation of those two Asian
economies was overseen by governments that were decisively
illiberal and undemocratic. These regimes are often described as
“developmental dictatorships” -- largely because they combined
authoritarian politics with an obsessive focus on economic
growth. The military regime in South Korea, and a hereditary
dictatorship in Taiwan, spouted anti-Communist rhetoric and paid
lip service to the principles of the “free world,” while pushing
a market-driven but government-controlled development strategy.
Lacking natural resources, they emphasized cheap labor and
economic efficiency, and they were successful beyond anybody’s
wildest expectations.  Perfect Machiavellians  After the mid-1980s, this “first generation” of
developmental dictatorships was emulated by Communist regimes in
mainland  China  and  Vietnam . In both countries, the party elite
kept up the old slogans and quasi-Leninist decorum for the sake
of domestic stability but for all practical purposes switched to
the growth strategies pioneered by Taiwan and  South Korea . If
anything, their version of capitalism was even more unabashed
and brutal -- the regimes in Beijing and Hanoi treated workers
with greater harshness and demonstrated even greater
indifference to the yawning gap between rich and poor.
Regardless, the model worked again: The “second generation” of
developmental dictatorships also achieved spectacular results.
Vietnam, which experienced a famine in the mid-1980s, had by the
mid-1990s become the world’s third-largest exporter of rice.  A similar course has failed to inspire the North Korean
elite. And unfortunately for common citizens, this unwillingness
to emulate China is neither irrational, nor ideological. On the
contrary,  North Korea ’s leaders are rational to the extreme,
being perhaps the most perfect bunch of Machiavellians currently
in power anywhere. They do not want to pursue reforms because
they realize that in the specific conditions produced by the
division of their country, such reforms constitute the surest
way of political (and, perhaps, physical) suicide.  The existence of a rich and free South Korea makes North
Korea’s situation vastly different from that of China or
Vietnam. The regime lives next to a country whose people speak
the same language and are officially
described as “members of our nation,” but who enjoy a per-capita
income
at least 15 times (some claim 40 times) higher than that of
North
Koreans. Even if the lowest estimate is taken, it would still
represent by far the world’s largest per-capita income
difference between two countries that share a land border. To
put things in perspective, the income ratio in divided  Germany 
was merely 3-to-1, and even this was enough to prompt the East
Germans to overthrow the regime as soon as they had an
opportunity to do so without fear of Soviet retribution.  One can only imagine the mind-blowing effect upon ordinary
North Koreans that would be caused by the sight of the average
 Seoul  street, a typical South Korean department store, or, for
that matter, the flat of a humble, semiskilled manual worker in
the South. Perhaps 15 years of flourishing market activities
have accustomed some North Koreans to visions of consumerist
abundance (after all, one can buy a lot in Pyongyang now if
money is available). But picture what a previously isolated
North Korean might think after he or she discovers that a South
Korean worker -- supposedly a slave of American neocolonialism -
- enjoys amenities and a lifestyle that in North Korea would be
available only to successful drug smugglers or Central Committee
officials.  Foreign investment and technology are necessary
preconditions for any successful reform program. If such changes
were to be instigated, a large number of North Koreans would
quickly be exposed to dangerous knowledge of the outside world,
and above all of South Korea. A considerable relaxation of
surveillance would be unavoidable, as well: Efficient market
reforms cannot work in a country where a business trip to the
capital city requires a weeks-long wait for travel permits and
where promotion is determined not so much by labor efficiency as
by demonstrated political loyalty (including the ability to
memorize the lengthy speeches of the  Dear Leader ). Information
would begin to flow into the country, and the dissemination of
this information, as well as of the dangerous conclusions drawn
from it, would become much easier.  No Future  It is doubtful the North Korean population would be
prepared to endure a further decade of destitution followed by a
couple of decades of relative poverty and backbreaking work
after they learned about another Korea -- affluent, free,
glamorous and attractive. Would they tolerate a reforming, but
still authoritarian and repressive regime on the assumption that
this regime will on some distant day deliver a prosperity
comparable to that of their Southern brothers and sisters? North
Koreans are much more likely to toss out their current rulers
and seek to reunify the peninsula in order to partake in the
South’s fabulous prosperity.  It is an open secret that many Chinese party officials have
used their country’s reforms to enrich themselves: The new
Chinese entrepreneurial class, to a significant extent, consists
of former officials, as well as their relations and buddies.
However, the situation of the North Korean elites is different.
They stand little chance of becoming successful capitalists if
the system is overthrown. In all probability, the important
positions in any new economy would be taken by people from South
Korea -- executives and entrepreneurs with capital, education,
experience and perhaps political support.  This fact is understood by at least some North Korean
bureaucrats, but
the majority of them have another, greater, fear. They know how
brutal their rule has been. They also know how they would have
treated the South Korean elite (and their descendants) had the
North won the intra-Korean feud. They are not merely afraid to
lose power and access to material privileges (these privileges
are quite modest, by the standards of the rich in most other
countries). They are afraid of being slaughtered or sent to
prisons.  A few years ago, a high-level North Korean bureaucrat told
a top Western diplomat: “Human rights and the like might be a
great idea, but if we start explaining it to our people, we will
be killed in no time.” Perhaps one of the reasons behind the
remarkable resilience of the North Korean regime is this
universal assumption of its bureaucrats (including those who are
quite low in the pecking order) that they would have no future
in case of regime collapse. This makes North Korea different
from many other dictatorships. A clerk in  Hosni Mubarak ’s  Egypt ,
for instance, could assume that, democrats or not, Islamists or
not, under a new regime he would still sit at his desk and
continue the old routine of, say, issuing permits for house
construction. Ditto a high-ranking military officer, who also
would expect that under a new government in Cairo he would still
command his battalion. Consequently, they did not see the
revolution as a personal threat, and might have even been
supportive of the movement.  1984 Again  In North Korea, the elite -- pretty much everybody who is
somebody -- believe that they have nothing to gain and much to
lose through unification with the South. These fears might be --
and, indeed, are -- exaggerated, but they are by no means
groundless. It is important that the elite’s predicament stems
from the existence of a successful South, not from particular
policies followed by a specific Seoul administration. Even if
the most pro-North Korean administration imaginable came to
power in Seoul, it would not make South Korea any less dangerous
to the current regime.  In such a case, what is the best strategy for the North
Korean elite? Domestically, the regime’s policy aim has been to
keep the North Korean population under control,
compartmentalized and, above all, isolated from the outside
world. Internationally, the safest solution is to squeeze more
aid from outside countries through diplomacy and blackmail. This
foreign aid helps to keep the inherently inefficient economy
afloat, prevents another major famine and allows the country’s
tiny elite to live a reasonably luxurious lifestyle while buying
at least some support from “strategically important” social
groups, such as the military, the police and the populations of
major urban centers.  In effect, what the mainstream North Korean elite want is
to return to the Orwellian year 1984 -- the last year when  Kim
Il Sung ’s system was still functioning properly. The regime’s
economic policies are largely focused on reviving the hyper-
Stalinist model of the past. It is possible that many people on
the top sincerely believe that this model might somehow be made
to work. But even if they do not succumb to such fantasies, they
still have no choice: the alternative, for them, is too grim to
contemplate.  (Andrei Lankov is a professor of history at Kookmin
University in Seoul, and the author of “North of the DMZ: Essays
on Daily Life in North Korea” and “From Stalin to Kim Il Sung:
The Formation of North Korea, 1945-1960.” This is the first of
three excerpts from his new book, “The Real North Korea: Life
and Politics in the Failed Stalinist Utopia,” which will be
published May 8 by  Oxford University Press . The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
 Andrei Lankov  at  andreilankov@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Nisid Hajari at   nhajari@bloomberg.net  