-- Wine Production Seen Shifting From Bordeaux to N.Z. on Climate
-- B y   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 2013-04-09T06:32:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/wine-production-seen-shifting-from-bordeaux-to-n-z-on-climate.html
Areas suitable for viticulture may
decline from  Bordeaux  to  Australia  as climate change prompts a
shift in wine production to higher latitudes and elevations in
New Zealand and the Northern Hemisphere, researchers said.  Suitable grape-growing areas may drop 68 percent in
Mediterranean  Europe  by 2050 and fall 73 percent in regions of
Australia with a so-called Mediterranean climate, according to a
 study published  in the journal Proceedings of the National
Academy of Sciences of the United States of America. New
Zealand’s suitable area will more than double and it will also
surge in northern Europe and western North America, it said.  A warming of 0.2 degrees Celsius per decade is projected
for the next 20 years in a range of greenhouse gas emission
scenarios, says the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change.
Continued greenhouse gas emissions at or above current rates
would cause further warming and induce many changes in the
global climate during this century, says the  United Nations .  “Redistribution in wine production may occur within
continents, moving from declining traditional wine-growing
regions to areas of novel suitability,” the authors wrote. “At
higher latitudes and elevations, areas not currently suitable
for viticulture are projected to become more suitable.”  The study used 17 climate models to estimate changes in
suitability for viticulture and the impact on water use and
natural habitat. Suitability for wine output will also decline
in the Rhone Valley in France and Tuscany by 2050, it said.  Wine Production  A growing and increasingly affluent global population will
probably boost demand for wine and ensure that grapes will be
grown in current producing areas to the extent that land and
water allow, as well as expand into new areas, the study said.  Global wine production dropped 6 percent to 250.9 million
hectoliters (6.63 billion gallons) in 2012, the lowest level in
at least 37 years, on smaller grape crops in  France , Spain and
 Argentina , according to the International Organisation of Vine
and Wine. The world faces a wine shortage of at least 10 million
hectoliters, the equivalent of 1.3 billion bottles, Bertrand
Girard, chief executive officer of Groupe Val d’Orbieu, France’s
biggest wine cooperative, said in October.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Phoebe Sedgman in Melbourne at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  