-- Wisconsin City’s Build America Bond Buyback May Be First
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-04-10T02:18:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/wisconsin-city-seen-as-first-to-call-build-america-bonds-at-par.html
Monona,  Wisconsin , may be the first
issuer in the $3.7 trillion municipal market to redeem its Build
America Bonds at par value after sequestration last month curbed
federal subsidies on the debt.  The city may buy back bonds issued in 2009 and 2010, Monona
said in a notice. The community of about 7,700 residents is
surrounded by the state capital of Madison. It would be the
first local issuer to refinance the subsidized debt, said Bart Mosley, co-president at Trident Municipal Research in New York.  About $7.6 billion of Build America Bonds have provisions
that put them most at risk for such calls after sequestration,
the $85 billion in U.S. budget cuts that began March 1, curbed
the subsidy, according to Tom Weyl, director of municipal
research at Barclays Plc in  New York . The promised 35 percent
issuer benefit was lowered to about 32 percent as part of the
federal spending reductions for fiscal 2013.  “Bondholders should look at what they own and compare what
similarities there are that raise the risk of a call,” Mosley
said by telephone. Deals such as Monona’s are “by far the
exception,” he said.  The Monona debt has par-value call provisions that
analysts, including Weyl and John Hallacy at Bank of America
Merrill Lynch, said could mean repurchases at below-market
prices because of the lower subsidies. The city has about $7.75
million of Build America Bonds outstanding, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Stimulus Device  Almost $188 billion of Build America Bonds have been
issued since they were created in 2009 as part of President
 Barack Obama ’s economic-stimulus plan, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Buyers flocked to the taxable securities, which
offered higher yields to investors.  If Monona redeems the bonds, the city said it would pay 100
percent of their value, plus accrued interest, in the notice,
posted on the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board’s Electronic
Municipal Market Access website.  Monona plans to issue tax-exempt debt to finance the
redemptions, as long as it can save on interest costs, Marc Houtakker, the city finance director, said by telephone.  The city’s longest-dated Build America Bond matures in
2019, Bloomberg data show. Monona debt maturing in October 2018
most recently traded on Feb. 20 at about 111 cents on the dollar
to yield 2.3 percent.  The extra yield investors demanded to own Build America
Bonds instead of 30-year  U.S. Treasuries  narrowed to a record
1.19 percentage points on March 20, Wells Fargo & Co.  data  show.
The spread widened to 1.28 percentage points yesterday.  Build America Bonds have returned about 2.7 percent this
year, Bank of America data show. That compares with 1.2 percent
for the broad muni market, 0.4 percent for Treasuries and 1.1
percent for corporate securities, the data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  