-- Won Slides to Eight-Month Low on North Korea Tensions
-- B y   S e y o o n   K i m
-- 2013-04-09T02:34:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/won-slides-to-eight-month-low-on-north-korea-tensions.html
The won fluctuated near its lowest
level in more than eight months as investors judged recent
declines were excessive and foreign funds sold shares amid
tensions with  North Korea .  Government bonds  fell.  The dollar’s 14-day relative strength index against the
South Korean currency rose above 70 for a third day, a threshold
that signals the greenback may weaken, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The won touched 1,144.82 per dollar, the weakest
since July 26, adding to a 4.3 percent decline in the past month
after North  Korea  authorized its military to conduct a nuclear
strike while restricting South Korean access to a jointly
managed industrial zone. Overseas investors  sold  a net $3.5
billion of local stocks this year through yesterday.  “There is a  market sentiment  that the drop in the won in
recent weeks was probably too much,” said Lee Dae Ho, analyst
at Hyundai Futures Corp. in Seoul. “The North Korean factor has
been priced in and investors have been feeling the burden from
the level of the currency.”  The won was little changed at 1,140.26 per dollar as of
11:15 a.m. in Seoul, after climbing to 1,135.48 earlier,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. One-month implied
volatility in the won, a measure of expected moves in the
 exchange rate  used to price options, gained 18 basis points, or
0.18 percentage point, to 11.04 percent.  Stocks, Bonds  South Korea ’s benchmark  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  of shares swung between
gains and losses. The  Bank of New York Mellon Korea ADR Index ,
which tracks American depositary receipts of South Korean
companies in New York, lost 0.5 percent yesterday to 170.93, the
lowest close since Sept. 6. The yield on the 2.75 percent
government notes due March 2018 rose one basis point to 2.57
percent, according to prices from Korea Exchange Inc.  North Korea said yesterday it will suspend operations at
the Gaeseong joint industrial complex and South Korea warned the
North may be ready to conduct a nuclear test or a missile launch
as early as this week.  “Combined with new concern of global outlook, regional
tensions particularly remain high in Korea,”  Robert Rennie ,
chief currency strategist at Westpac Banking Corp. in Sydney,
said by telephone today. “A significant weakness in the dollar-
won isn’t likely to stop until North Korea tensions clear up. A
lot of bad news has already been priced in Asian outlook.”  North Korea’s decision last week to restart production of
weapons-grade plutonium is credit-negative for South Korea as it
has increased “the chance of a serious military clash,”
Moody’s Investors Service analysts David Erickson and  Thomas Byrne  wrote in a report yesterday.  Yen Moves  The won also tracked moves in the Japanese yen, which
briefly erased a decline that sent it to the lowest level since
May 2009 after Japanese Finance Minister Taro Aso said excessive
currency gains are being corrected. The yen slid 6.5 percent in
the previous three days after the  Bank of Japan  took
unprecedented monetary easing steps, with a technical indicator
signaling the drop may be poised to reverse.  A rapid weakening of the yen is expected to hurt the price
competitiveness of South Korean exports,  Bank of Korea  said in a
biannual report last week. The won strengthened 24 percent
against the yen in the past six months.  “The won has been depreciating but the pace of
depreciation is much faster with the yen,” South Korean Finance
Minister Hyun Oh Seok said in Seoul yesterday. “The impact from
this has not been so bad for South Korean exporters yet, but
they will see their competitiveness worsening over time.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Seyoon Kim in Seoul at 
 skim7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  