-- Woods Brings No. 1 Rank Along With Intimidation to Masters
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2013-04-09T18:26:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/woods-brings-no-1-rank-along-with-intimidation-back-to-masters.html
Tiger Woods’s return to the Masters
Tournament this week coincides with his ascension to golf’s No.
1 ranking. He’s also regained an advantage he held when he won
his 14 majors.  “Intimidation,” former U.S. Open champion Curtis Strange,
now an ESPN television analyst, said on an April 4 media
conference call. “Great players are intimidating. Jack Nicklaus
had an air about him that was intimidating, and so does Tiger.
That’s part of it.”  It’s been several years since Woods held that edge. He
hadn’t been No. 1 for 2 1/2 years, and has gone eight years
since capturing the most recent of his four titles in Augusta,
 Georgia . With bookmakers again making him the pre-tournament
favorite, things appear to finally be turning around for the 37-
year-old Woods, on and off the course.  Woods, who has won his last two starts and six of his last
20, spoke at a news conference today about his improved health
and the changes he has made under Sean Foley, who replaced Hank Haney as his coach in 2010.  “I feel comfortable with every aspect of my game,” Woods
said. “I feel that I’ve improved and I’ve got more consistent,
and I think the wins show that. That’s something that I’m proud
of so far this year, and hopefully I can continue it this week
and the rest of the year.”  Woods won his last U.S. PGA Tour event, taking the Arnold
Palmer Invitational for the record eighth time last month and
pushing his U.S. Tour victory total to 77, within five of Sam Snead’s mark for the most titles.  Beating Woods  As his world ranking slipped to No. 58, the list of players
who were able to beat Woods in a final round grew longer. It
started in 2009, when Y.E. Yang overcame a two-shot deficit in
the final round to top Woods in the PGA Championship, ending
Woods’s streak of 14 straight major titles when holding the lead
entering the final 18 holes. At last year’s HSBC Championship in
Abu Dhabi,  England ’s Robert Rock was tied with Woods going into
the final round. Paired with Woods, Rock birdied three of his
opening six holes and won by one shot, while Woods shot 75 and
finished third.  With Woods winning again, things seem to be returning to
the way they were when he won his most recent major, the 2008
U.S. Open. Two weeks ago, Woods held a two-shot lead over final-
round playing partner  Rickie Fowler  at Bay Hill. Needing to make
a move to try to catch Woods, Fowler dunked two shots into the
water on the 16th hole, leading to a triple-bogey. Woods birdied
the hole and won by two shots.  Tee Time  Woods, who skipped last week’s PGA Tour event in  Texas  to
prepare for the Masters, will tee off in the opening round at
Augusta National Golf Club at 10:45 a.m. local time with
England’s Luke Donald and American Scott Piercy, who is making
his first appearance.  In five U.S. events this season, Woods has won three. His
victory at Palmer’s Bay Hill Club & Lodge pushed him past
Northern Ireland’s Rory McIlroy to No. 1 in the Official World
Golf Ranking. While Woods failed to win the Masters in the two
other years (2003 and 2008) in which he collected three wins
before the championship, he appears to have regained his
confidence, his opponents said.  “He’s hitting it nicely,” U.S. PGA Tour player Steve Stricker, who played a practice round with Woods at Augusta
National two days ago, said in a press conference yesterday.
“Looks like he’s got a ton of confidence in that putter, too.”  Putting Tip  Stricker, 46, spent about 45 minutes helping Woods with his
putting stroke before last month’s Cadillac Championship. Woods
then won his next two events and leads all PGA Tour players with
a total of 1.47 putting strokes gained on the field per round.
Woods also leads in scoring average at 68.3 strokes per round.  “Let’s face it, no one on the face of the earth has ever
putted like Tiger Woods putts, especially under pressure,”
former U.S. Ryder Cup captain Paul Azinger said on a media
conference call. “Now that he’s putting good again, he can
finish dead last in fairways hit and win.”  Woods, who is four major wins shy of Nicklaus’s record of
18, tied for 40th at last year’s Masters after finishing fourth
the previous two years. He is the 7-2 favorite at U.K. bookmaker
 William Hill Plc. (WMH)  McIlroy, a two-time major winner, is the
second favorite, at 8-1, followed by three-time champion Phil Mickelson (11-1).  Remaining Target  Woods said today that he remained focused trying to break
Nicklaus’s mark.  “Yeah, I would like to be able to get to that point,” he
said. “It took Jack a while to get to 18, all the way until he
was 46 years old. So there’s plenty of opportunities for me.”  Since his most recent Masters victory in 2005, Woods’s life
has undergone changes. In addition to becoming divorced from
Elin Nordegren, his wife of four years, after admitting marital
infidelity, Woods changed his coach, his caddie and his swing,
and underwent a series of knee and leg operations. He recently
disclosed that he was in a relationship with six-time World Cup
skiing champion  Lindsey Vonn .  “He’s happy and he’s relaxed and he just feels good about
what he’s doing with his game,” Stricker said. “It’s showing
in his attitude, too. I fully expect him to be in the mix on
Sunday.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  