-- Yen Slides as BOJ Easing Spurs Bets on Further Drop
-- B y   N e a l   A r m s t r o n g   a n d   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2013-04-10T10:45:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/yen-slides-as-boj-easing-spurs-bets-on-further-drop.html
The yen approached the weakest
level since May 2009 against the dollar as the  Bank of Japan (8301) ’s
unprecedented stimulus measures aimed at ending deflation
spurred bets the currency will keep depreciating.  The yen fell at least 0.2 percent versus all its 16 major
counterparts on speculation central bank Governor Haruhiko
Kuroda will signal his determination to pursue further
quantitative easing when he speaks at a Yomiuri newspaper event
on Friday. The euro strengthened for a sixth day against the
dollar, the longest run since December, after French industrial
output rose more than economists forecast.  Australia ’s dollar
gained after Chinese imports increased in March.  “It’s looking increasingly inevitable that we’ll test the
100 level in the near term,” said  Lee Hardman , a currency
strategist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in  London ,
referring to the yen against the dollar. “There’s strong
conviction that the aggressive monetary-easing plan unveiled by
the BOJ will reinforce yen selling pressure.”  The yen fell 0.4 percent to 99.43 per dollar at 6:43 a.m.
 New York  time after declining to 99.66 yesterday, the weakest
level since May 7, 2009.  Japan ’s currency dropped 0.5 percent to
130.20 per euro after weakening to 130.51, the least since
January 2010. The euro gained 0.1 percent to $1.3098.  Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi now forecasts the yen will weaken
toward 108 per dollar within 12 months following last week’s BOJ
decision, Hardman said.  ‘Bold’ Easing  BOJ policy makers said on April 4 they would boost monthly
debt purchases to 7.5 trillion yen. They also suspended a cap on
some bond holdings and dropped a limit on debt maturities.
Officials next meet on April 26.  “Bold monetary easing will cause a change from deflation
to inflation,” Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe said today in
parliament. “As a result, the yen weakens, or rather, the
excessively strong yen is being corrected.” The government of
the world’s third-biggest economy is not seeking to
intentionally weaken its currency, Abe said.  The yen has fallen 12 percent this year, the worst
performer among 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The euro gained 1.2
percent and the dollar advanced 1.8 percent.  UBS AG changed its year-end forecast for the yen to 110 per
dollar from an earlier prediction of 100. The currency’s
weakness is only halfway through amid “strong easing”
initiated by the BOJ, analysts led by London-based economist
Larry Hatheway wrote today in a note to clients.  Euro Gains  The euro rose for a fifth day against the yen amid
speculation the expansion of quantitative easing in Japan will
encourage funds in the nation to seek greater returns abroad.  “The euro is being supported by anticipation of Japanese
investors being encouraged to move towards riskier assets such
as higher-yielding euro-zone debt,” Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi’s
Hardman said.  French industrial production expanded 0.7 percent in
February after a revised 0.8 percent decline in January,
national statistics office Insee said. Economists forecast an
increase of 0.2 percent, according to a  Bloomberg News .  Euro-area industrial production grew 0.2 percent in
February after a 0.4 percent decrease in January, according to a
separate Bloomberg survey before the report on Friday.  Aussie Gains  Australia’s dollar rose against all but one of its 16 major
peers as the increase in Chinese imports boosted the South
Pacific nation’s trade prospects.  “The market is putting more focus on the fact that imports
have rebounded very strongly,” said Khoon Goh, a senior
strategist at Australia & New Zealand Banking Ltd. in  Singapore .
“Given that China imports from Australia, that is seen as
benefiting Australia. Near term, there’s scope for the Aussie to
go higher.”  The so-called Aussie is “defying gravity,” Treasurer
 Wayne Swan  said today at an Economic Summit in Sydney. The
currency’s strength is placing “enormous pressure” across the
whole economy, he said.  The Australian dollar advanced 0.3 percent to $1.0523 after
gaining 1 percent during the previous two days.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Neal Armstrong in London at 
 narmstrong8@bloomberg.net ;
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  