-- Yuan-Aussie Transactions to Start as HSBC Joins Market
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o   a n d   F i o n   L i
-- 2013-04-10T03:54:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/yuan-aussie-transactions-to-start-as-hsbc-joins-market.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  starts direct
trading between the yuan and Australia’s dollar today, joining
two other banks in getting approvals from China as market makers.  China, Australia’s top trading partner, will start direct
trading between the nations’ currencies, Australian Prime
Minister  Julia Gillard  announced April 8 in Shanghai during an
official visit. The People’s Bank of China approved  Australia &
New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  and  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  as
market makers for such transactions, she said.  The Australian dollar becomes the third major currency
allowed to have direct trading links with the yuan after the
greenback and Japan’s yen. Chinese Premier  Li Keqiang  took
office last month and retained central bank governor Zhou Xiaochuan, who has been seeking to reduce the country’s reliance
on the dollar. China has accumulated $3.3 trillion of foreign-
exchange reserves, the world’s largest stockpile.  This is a “significant step forward in supporting the
growing demand for RMB for payments, settlement and financing
globally,” said Tony Cripps, chief executive officer of HSBC’s
Australia unit, according to a statement from the company
released yesterday. “Greater RMB turnover and liquidity will
ultimately make exchange-rate transactions for businesses and
investors from both countries easier.” RMB, or  renminbi , is the
official Chinese name for the currency.  Fixing Weakened  The PBOC announces a daily  reference rate  for the  yuan 
against the Australian dollar at around 9:15 a.m. in Shanghai on
each trading day, based on market-maker prices. The  rate  was set
at 6.54 per Australian dollar today, compared with 6.5314
yesterday, according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System.
Direct trading means the fixing will be computed without
involving a cross rate with the  U.S. dollar .  China remained Australia’s top trading partner in February,
with transactions at A$9.7 billion ($10.2 billion), according to
the bureau of statistics. Asia’s largest economy took about a
third of the nation’s exports that month and is the major
customer for  iron ore  and coal. China reported a March trade
deficit of $880 million today, compared with the median estimate
in a Bloomberg survey for a $15.2 billion surplus. Imports
climbed by an above-forecast 14.1 percent, the customs
administration said in Beijing.  “For China, the interest for having direct trading with
the Aussie is very much tied up with the desire to have
commodity pricing other than the dollar,” said Cliff Tan, East
Asian head of global markets research at Bank of Tokyo-
Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in  Hong Kong . “From the Chinese perspective,
it’s always great to have one more potential offshore pool of
yuan liquidity. But I’m very interested to see how Australian
companies will go in terms of adoption.”  19-Year High  China’s yuan was the 14th most-used currency in global
payments in February, according to the  Society for Worldwide
Interbank Financial Telecommunication . It had a 0.6 percent
share, figures from the financial messaging platform show.
Australia ranked sixth out of 136 countries in terms of settling
payments in the Chinese currency, SWIFT said.  The yuan has weakened 0.7 percent this year against the
Australian dollar, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
Chinese currency advanced to a 19-year high of 6.1941 against
the greenback today in Shanghai.  Taiwanese banks started accepting yuan deposits in February,
while authorities in Beijing appointed Industrial & Commercial
Bank of China Ltd. as the yuan clearing bank in Singapore.  Bank
of England  said it has the inside edge to be the first Group of
Seven nation to sign a currency-swap agreement with China after
a meeting in February.  Offshore Hubs  “With PBOC moving to set up offshore yuan trading centers
beyond Hong Kong, with London, Taiwan, and Singapore thought to
be next in line, one could make the case that Sydney should
eventually become an offshore hub too,” said  Win Thin , head of
 emerging markets  currency strategy at Brown Brothers Harriman &
Co. in New York. “China will likely continue introducing
bilateral trade and currency arrangements to help secure a
steady flow of commodity imports, not just from Australia but
from Africa and Latin America too.”  Authorities will roll out new measures in promoting
interest-rate and exchange rate liberalization, China’s State
Council, or cabinet, said in March following a meeting led by
Premier Li on issues for the government to focus on this year.
China ended a dollar peg in July 2005 and the currency has
appreciated 34 percent against the greenback since then.  “China continues to liberalize its currency regime, but it
is a slow and steady process,” said Thin. “However, the
direction of China foreign-exchange reforms is clear.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net ;
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net ;
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  