-- Zloty Retreats, Bonds End Five-Day Rally as Rate Council Meets
-- B y   M a c i e j   O n o s z k o
-- 2013-04-09T12:21:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-09/zloty-retreats-bonds-end-five-day-rally-as-rate-council-meets.html
The zloty weakened for the first
time in three days and bonds pared gains from a rally that took
yields to record lows as the Monetary Policy Council gathered
for a two-day meeting to decide on  interest rates .  The zloty depreciated 0.2 percent to 4.1305 against the
euro at 2:18 p.m. in Warsaw, after strengthening 1.8 percent
over the last three days. The  yield  on 10-year bonds rose eight
basis points, or 0.08 percentage point, to 3.59 percent, paring
a drop by a total of 44 basis points in the last five days.  The central bank keep the benchmark rate unchanged at a
record low of 3.25 percent when it announces its decision
tomorrow, according to all 35 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg.
Investors are speculating whether Governor  Marek Belka  will
stick to his “wait-and-see” stance from March or acknowledge
weaker economic developments in Poland as well as the euro
region and the U.S. over the past month.  Expectations of rate cuts in future months and “the
threat” of a budget amendment are risks weighing on the zloty,
 Bank Pekao SA (PEO)  economists, led by  Marcin Mrowiec , wrote in a note
today.  The budget gap after April will reach 84.5 percent of the
full-year plan of 35.6 billion zloty ($11.2 billion), the
 Finance Ministry  said on its website yesterday.  The spread between nine-month forward rate agreements,
derivatives used to bet on interest rates, and the Warsaw
Interbank Offered Rate narrowed to 48 basis points today from 53
basis points yesterday, signaling a decline in the odds for two
quarter-point rate reductions this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maciej Onoszko in Warsaw at 
 monoszko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  