-- 5 Questions for Ian Smith on 2012 Predictions
-- B y   B e n   S t e v e r m a n
-- 2011-12-30T22:33:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-30/5-questions-for-ian-smith-on-2012-predictions.html
It was a year prognosticators would sooner forget.  Pimco's  Bill Gross  got the direction of  interest rates 
wrong, while hedge fund billionaire  John Paulson  had the worst
year of his career. Mutual fund investing stars of past
years, such as Fairholme's  Bruce Berkowitz  and CGM’s Ken
Heebner, saw their portfolios fall to the bottom of the pack.
Economists did no better. According to  Goldman Sachs , the
consensus growth forecast for U.S. gross domestic product
in the first three-quarters of 2011 was too optimistic by 1.6
percentage points, the widest miss in 14 years.  Ian W. Smith helps manage $10 billion in assets for
wealthy families at Silvercrest Asset Management Group, where
he's a managing director. Bloomberg.com’s Ben Steverman asked
Smith how investors can put their money to work in a world
that seems increasingly unpredictable. Edited excerpts of
their conversation follow:
1. How much value do you place on predictions and forecasts?  We treat forecasts with a great deal of humility, given
the level of volatility we’ve experienced over the past
decade. The vast majority of managers have a very poor ability
to call the market accurately over the short term. Very few
people predicted the severity of 2008’s downturn. Very few
people predicted the trough in March 2009.  Even hedge fund managers, who are paid to be more
tactical in nature, have not done a very good job this year.
This summer, the market sold off sharply: 17 percent in about
two weeks. Managers then became more defensive.
Therefore, they locked in losses and have not participated in
the subsequent recovery.  My belief is that trying to get in and out of the market
over short periods of time is detrimental to long-term
investors’ returns. You need to get the timing of the sale
correct. Then you have to make a second decision
correctly, which is when to get back in the market. In our
experience, most investors get one or both of those decisions
wrong.  2. What was it about 2011 that made it so tough, even for
experienced managers?  Volatility, and the uncertainty that caused it. There is
global  liquidity risk , à la 2008, with many banks in the  euro
zone  owning bonds of the distressed countries, such as
Spain, Portugal, Ireland and  Italy . There is the potential --
albeit a small one  -- for a very bad outcome in both the
equity and fixed-income markets. So investors are trying to
price in that probability, along with the risk of the monetary
authorities releasing a torrent of liquidity, causing a very
sharp upward move in the market. If you’re a hedge fund
manager, you’re trying to manage both of these very distinct
outcomes.  3. Do you rely on forecasts or predictions when deciding
how to invest clients' portfolios?  Let me concede that we do make predictions;
however, we’re not making any grand predictions. We’re
forecasting that GDP will grow at a modest pace, which we
believe will help support stock prices. We are not making any
tactical bets as a result of our forecast. We could have
recession, and we could have even faster growth.  4. So how do you make investment decisions if you can’t
rely on forecasts?  We construct an  asset allocation  we believe is aligned
with our investors’ interests. A moderate risk investor might
have 60 percent of his portfolio allocated to stocks or
equivalents and 40 percent allocated to bond and equivalents.  We try to maintain those allocations through good periods
as well as bad. In March 2009, at the trough of the market, it
was a wonderful opportunity for investors to rebalance
portfolios, because stocks had fallen so much in value. To
reduce fixed-income exposure at that time was a very difficult
thing to do, but investors who did it were richly rewarded.  We make a concerted effort to harvest gains from an asset
class that has done exceedingly well and reinvest in an
underperforming asset class. I think many investors have
reacted to this volatility by selling equities and buying
bonds. That is reflected in the mutual fund flows. We
completely appreciate the discomfort, and we understand it.
Retail mutual fund investors, however, have been selling an
undervalued asset and buying an overvalued asset.  5. Why do you think bonds are overvalued, and what's your
fixed-income strategy?  The statement that ‘bonds are overvalued’ is just
factual. Yields are at 50-year lows. We don’t see much value
in 10-year Treasuries. With the 10-year bond yield at 2
percent and inflation running in excess of 3.5 percent, your
return after inflation is negative.  There are other segments within fixed income and
equivalents that do look appealing. There is some value in
high-quality noninvestment-grade bonds. They provide yields
well in excess of inflation, and we think investors are
adequately compensated for the risk.  Also, we can earn
between 5 percent and 8 percent on higher-yielding municipal
bonds, some of which are not investment grade. 