-- Ackman’s Pershing Said to Seek Replacing Green With Harrison at CP Rail
-- B y   N a t a l i e   D o s s
-- 2011-12-30T21:33:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-30/ackman-s-pershing-is-said-to-urge-ceo-switch-at-canadian-pacific-railway.html
William Ackman ’s Pershing Square
Capital Management LP, the largest shareholder in  Canadian
Pacific Railway Ltd. (CP) , urged the carrier to hire the former chief
executive officer of rival  Canadian National Railway Co. (CNR) , a
person familiar with the matter said.  Some directors are eager to meet with Hunter Harrison, who
led  Canadian National  from 2003 through 2009, after Pershing
recommended him as a replacement for CEO Fred Green, said the
person, who asked not to be identified because the details are
private. The U.S. shares rose the most in a month.  A CEO switch would follow the strategy Ackman pursued at
 J.C. Penney Co. (JCP) , which brought in Apple Inc.’s retail chief,  Ron Johnson , this year after Pershing became the department-store
chain’s biggest investor. Canadian National’s net income more
than tripled during Harrison’s tenure.  The retired CEO, 67, enjoys “celebrity-like status among
investors,” and hiring him probably would boost the stock,
 Jason Seidl , a Dahlman Rose & Co. analyst in New York, wrote in
a note today. He rates Canadian Pacific as “hold.”  Harrison has postponed any meetings with Canadian Pacific
until after tomorrow, the date through which he is barred from
working for a Canadian National competitor, the person said.
Harrison has spoken with Pershing and is interested in returning
to work, the person said.  Seeking Value  Ackman, 45, invests in companies he deems undervalued and
pushes changes he says will improve shareholder returns. The
U.S. shares of Calgary-based Canadian Pacific fell 31 percent
this year through Sept. 22, a day before Pershing began buying
shares, dwarfing the 3.8 percent drop for Canadian National.  Canadian Pacific gained 4.1 percent to $67.67 at 4 p.m. in
New York, the biggest advance since Nov. 28.  Ed Greenberg , a spokesman for Canadian Pacific, declined to
comment. Jennifer Burner, a spokeswoman for New York-based
Pershing, couldn’t immediately comment, and Harrison didn’t
return a telephone call.  Pershing disclosed its initial stake in Canadian Pacific on
Oct. 28, and has expanded that holding to 14.2 percent. The New
York-based hedge fund said Dec. 1 that talks with  Canada ’s
second-largest railroad on changes to operations and management
had been “productive.”  Canadian Pacific has been run by Green, 55, since May 2006,
and the board is led by Chairman John Cleghorn.  New Directors  Two Canadian Pacific directors added this month both were
suggested by Pershing, the person said. One of them, Edmond Harris, worked for Montreal-based Canadian National under
Harrison and later was Canadian Pacific’s chief operating
officer.  Earnings at Canadian Pacific rose about 11 percent during
the years that Harrison was boosting net income at Canadian
National, the country’s biggest railroad.  Canadian Pacific’s ratio of operating expenses to sales is
the highest among the major North American carriers and has been
equal to or exceeded the average among its peers since 2008,
according to Bloomberg Industries data.  The Globe & Mail reported on Pershing’s discussions about a
CEO change earlier today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Doss in  New York  at 
 ndoss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  