-- Thailand’s Government Scraps Plan to Transfer Legacy Debt to Central Bank
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 2011-12-30T09:30:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-30/thailand-scraps-plan-to-shift-35-billion-asia-crisis-debt-to-central-bank.html
Thailand ’s government scrapped a
proposal to transfer $35 billion of legacy debt from bank
bailouts to the central bank and will instead seek to extract
cash from commercial lenders to finance flood defenses.  “Transferring debts to the Bank of Thailand will be like
printing money,” Finance Minister Thirachai Phuvanatnaranubala
told reporters today after meeting Bank of Thailand Governor
Prasarn Trairatvorakul. “The methods we are using must not
affect fiscal and monetary discipline and must not hurt
confidence among foreign investors and international agencies.”  Deputy Prime Minister Kittiratt Na-Ranong said yesterday
the step would save the government as much as 65 billion baht
($2 billion) in annual interest costs that could be used to fund
anti-flood measures. Thirachai had opposed the measure, warning
this week it could hurt investor confidence and stoke inflation.  The proposal increased concerns that Prime Minister
Yingluck Shinawatra’s administration was infringing on the
central bank’s independence, after Kittiratt in October said the
Bank of Thailand should lower  interest rates  to help businesses
cope with the country’s worst flooding since 1942.  The government “didn’t study this issue well enough to
argue with the Bank of Thailand,” said Pipat Luengnaruemitchai,
vice president of Phatra Capital Pcl, Thailand’s second-biggest
brokerage by market value. “Anything involving monetary policy
discipline, the government loses the debate all the time because
the Bank of Thailand has better credibility.”  Baht Gains  The baht gained 0.7 percent to 31.54 per dollar as of 3:06
p.m. in Bangkok, the biggest advance in a month. Yesterday it
fell the most in two months to the weakest level since Aug. 16,
2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The government will attempt to raise about 50 billion baht
for debt payments by taking 0.39 percent of the 0.4 percent fee
that commercial banks pay to the Deposit Protection Agency and
by amending the law to allow the Financial Institutions
Development Fund to collect fees from commercial banks. The
government paid 45 billion baht in interest on the debt this
year, Thirachai said today.  “This will remove the interest burden from the
government,” he said. “If the central bank records a profit,
they can also use that to reduce the debt.”  The Financial Institutions Development Fund racked up a 1.4
trillion-baht debt bailing out lenders after the 1997 Asian
financial crisis, when the government closed more than 60
financial companies and seized half of the nation’s 14
commercial banks.  Bank Losses  Under a  repayment agreement  in 2002, the  finance ministry 
makes interest payments while the central bank pays down the
principal whenever it earns a yearly profit. The Bank of
Thailand has reported annual net income once since 2004 and last
year reported a net loss of 117 billion baht, mostly due to
losses on foreign exchange.  Thailand’s central bank expects to record a loss this year,
Prasarn told reporters today. Kittiratt yesterday said that it
would post a “high profit.” Prasarn said the Bank of Thailand,
finance ministry and Council of State would meet again to
discuss legal amendments to help pay the debt.  “We agreed that what we will do must not prompt the
central bank to print money and it should help reduce the fiscal
burden,” Prasarn told reporters today after the meeting. “It
must not affect foreign reserves too.”  Interest Payments  Since 1997, the principal on the debt has fallen by 300
billion baht, or about 21 billion baht per year. During that
time, the government has paid as much as 65 billion baht in
interest annually, according to Kittiratt.  Korn Chatikavanij, Thirachai’s predecessor under a previous
administration, opposed the idea to transfer fees from the
 Deposit Protection Agency  to the government to pay the debt.  “If you shift the revenue to the government, eventually
the government would be morally bound to support banks if they
run into liquidity problems,” he said in a telephone interview
yesterday. “The whole idea of having a deposit guarantee scheme
is to avoid the government having to be involved.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  