-- Merkel Vows to ‘Do Everything’ to Save Euro as Greece Sees Difficult Year
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2011-12-31T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-30/angela-merkel-tells-germany-she-will-do-everything-to-save-euro-in-2012.html
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said
she expects turbulence in 2012 as she does “everything” to
save the euro and end  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis.  “The path to overcoming this won’t be without setbacks but
at the end of this path Europe will emerge stronger from the
crisis than before,” Merkel said in a New Year’s television
speech yesterday. In his New Year’s message, Greek Prime
Minister  Lucas Papademos  said his nation will confront a
“difficult” 2012 and must continue efforts to stay in the euro.  Merkel will meet with French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  in
Berlin on Jan. 9 to discuss revisions to Europe’s fiscal
rulebook following decisions made at a Dec. 9 summit. A final
accord by euro leaders on the German-French proposals agreed at
the summit is due in March.  “Today, you can trust that I will do everything to
strengthen the euro,” Merkel said. “This will only succeed if
Europe learns from the mistakes of the past. One of these is
that a common currency can only be successful if we cooperate
more than in the past in Europe.”  The euro had a second consecutive annual loss against the
dollar in 2011 for the first time in a decade as rising yields
on the region’s sovereign debt reflected speculation about
defaults and stalling economic growth.  In its 13th year of existence, the 17-nation currency fell
below 100 yen for the first time since 2001 as the region’s
leaders bailed out Portugal, and  Italy , with the world’s third-
largest bond market, had its worst year since at least 1992. The
Swiss franc rose against a majority of its most-traded
counterparts as Europe’s debt crisis spurred demand for safety.  ‘Crucial’ Months in Greece  A crisis that began in Greece two years ago has moved to
the euro-area’s core and leaders are struggling to convince
investors they can contain the risk and assure the euro’s
survival.  For Greece, “the next three months will be particularly
crucial,” Papademos said in an e-mailed statement yesterday sent
from his Athens-based office. “The decisions taken will
determine the course of Greece in the coming decades.”  Papademos, appointed on Nov. 11 as head of a government
backed by three of the five parliamentary parties, is trying to
secure loans under a 130 billion-euro ($168.5 billion) bailout
for  Greece  agreed to in October by European Union leaders before
elections are held. Measures include negotiating a debt swap
with private creditors that will cut 100 billion euros off
Greece’s burden.  Germans are split over whether the debt crisis can be
fixed, with 52 percent of voters saying that a “fundamental
solution” can be found to the euro-region’s woes, according to
a Forsa GmbH poll for financial consultants AWD Holding AG
published on Dec. 29.  German Polls  Some 22 percent of the respondents expect the region to
abandon the euro and return to national currencies while 90
percent said in response to a separate question that other euro
member states would join Greece,  Portugal  and Ireland in needing
aid.  Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  urged Germans to show
more “calm” over the crisis in 2012, saying in a Dec. 24
interview in the Bild am Sonntag newspaper that it is
“manageable.”  Germany  plans to speed up paying installments to
Europe’s permanent bailout fund to boost market confidence in
the euro area’s resolve to beat the crisis.  The euro-region is “close to a turning point” in the
crisis,  Norbert Barthle , the budget spokesman for Merkel’s
 Christian Democrats , said in an interview on Dec. 29, adding
that Germany may not even be forced to raise its net borrowing
next year to accommodate increased payments to the European
Stability Mechanism due to rising tax revenue.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  