-- Asia Stocks Post First Yearly Loss Since ’08 on Debt, Tightening
-- B y   N i c k   G e n t l e
-- 2011-12-30T23:30:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-30/asia-stocks-post-first-yearly-loss-since-08-on-debt-china-s-tightening.html
Asian stocks posted their first
annual decline in three years as sovereign-debt concerns in
 Europe  and the U.S. further cut into an earnings outlook eroded
by China’s efforts to fight inflation and  Japan ’s record quake.  The MSCI  Asia  Pacific Index fell 0.2 percent this week,
taking its annual drop to 23.8 percent, as energy, financial and
raw material companies declined. Tokyo Electric Power Co., the
utility at the center of the worst nuclear accident in 25 years,
retreated 18 percent, extending its 2011 slide to 91 percent
amid speculation the company may be nationalized. China Mengniu
Dairy Co., the country’s biggest producer of milk, fell 31
percent after a cancer-causing toxin was found in a batch of its
products.  Stocks fell this week as the publication of lending
statistics by the  European Central Bank  underscored the
magnitude of the region’s debt crisis and as  China ’s
manufacturing contracted for a second month. Losses were
tempered by better-than-estimated reports on pending home sales,
 consumer confidence  and durable-goods orders in the U.S.  “This year, the world was swayed by the European debt
crisis,” said Takashi Aoki, who helps manage the equivalent of
$1.5 billion at Tokyo-based Mizuho Asset Management Co. “More
investors think the  U.S. economy  is firmer and growing slowly,
and this will last for a while. Europe has entered a recession
but it’s unlikely to deteriorate badly. Emerging countries are
transitioning from economic slowdown to faster growth again.”  The Asia Pacific gauge has lost about $1.58 trillion this
year amid concern Europe’s debt crisis will drag the global
economy into recession. Stocks on Asia’s benchmark are valued at
12.7 times estimated earnings on average, compared with 12.7
times for  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPXL1)  and 10.6 times for the
Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  Regional Indexes Slump  Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average rose 0.7 percent this week,
paring its annual loss to 17 percent.  Hong Kong ’s  Hang Seng
Index (HSI)  dropped 1.1 percent through the holiday-shortened week,
taking its 2001 slide to 20 percent. Just four Asian benchmark
indexes -- Mongolia’s MSE Top 20 Index, Indonesia’s Jakarta
Composite Index, the Philippine Stock Exchange Index and the
FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index -- advanced this year.  The  Shanghai  Composite Index tumbled 22 percent this year,
the most since 2008 and extending last year’s 14 percent plunge,
on concern increases in borrowing costs and Europe’s debt crisis
will derail economic growth. The index’s 33 percent drop since
2009 makes it the worst performer among the world’s 15 biggest
markets.  Kim Jong Il   South Korea ’s Kospi index slipped 2.2 percent in the week
as North Korea held a funeral for its leader Kim Jong Il. The
Kospi fell 11 percent in 2011.  Australia ’s  S&P/ASX 200 Index (AS51) 
fell for a second year, dropping 15 percent in 2011, as sagging
global demand hurt mining companies and as a currency that’s
gained 21 percent in 18 months made other exports less
competitive.  Volatility across the region soared in 2011 as first
Japan’s earthquake, tsunami and nuclear disaster and then
concerns about the U.S. debt ceiling and Europe’s debt crisis
roiled markets. The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  rose or fell more
than 2 percent on 35 days this year, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. That compares with just 10 days in 2010, the data
show.  The Nikkei Stock Average Volatility Index hit a record on
March 15 in the wake of Japan’s record earthquake and tsunami.
In August, gauges of price swings in the  Hang Seng Index (VHSI)  and the
Kospi 200 Index revisited levels not seen since early 2009 as
Europe’s crisis and U.S. lawmakers’ disagreement on how to
handle their country’s deficit sent markets plunging.  Topix Quake Plunge  Japan’s March 11 quake largely decided the country’s
biggest winners and losers for the year. Tokyo Electric, owner
of the Fukushima power plant wrecked in the disaster, dropped 91
percent for the biggest decline in the  MSCI All Country World
Index (MXWD) . SxL Corp., a builder that has benefited from
reconstruction work, surged 262 percent.  The Topix plunged 16 percent in the two trading days
following the disaster, which left almost 20,000 people dead or
missing and disrupted factory production at companies from
Toyota Motor Corp. to  Sony Corp. (6758)  That was the biggest two-day
decline since the week of the Black Monday global equity-market
crash in October 1987.  Japanese stocks have fallen further since then as Europe’s
crisis drove gains in the yen on safe-haven demand, cutting into
exporters’ overseas revenue, and as floods in  Thailand 
exacerbated supply-chain disruptions.  Hang Seng’s Losers  Shipping companies registered the  second-biggest (TPX)  drop on
the Topix this year after securities trading firms, whose
business has suffered amid plunging markets and declining
volumes. Total turnover on the first section of the Tokyo Stock
Exchange on Dec. 27 was the lowest since April 2003.  The Hang Seng Index’s retreat this year was led by banks
and developers as China intensified measures to curb inflation
and property prices.  Esprit Holdings Ltd. (330) , a clothing retailer,
led 2011’s declines in the Hong Kong gauge, falling 73 percent
on concern failure to contain Europe’s debt crisis will further
undermine the company’s brand in its biggest market.  Among the biggest Chinese stocks traded in Hong Kong, BYD
Co., the carmaker partly owned by  Warren Buffett , led declines,
falling 59 percent this year. The stock dropped 2.1 percent this
week to HK$16.84 after announcing a bond sale.  China Railway Group Ltd. (390)  and China Railway Construction
Corp. were the second- and third-biggest losers in the Hang Seng
China Enterprises Index, falling 57 percent and 54 percent
respectively after a fatal accident. China Railway Construction
dropped 4.3 percent this week while Railway Group slipped 6.2
percent.  China Slowdown  China Mengniu tumbled 31 percent in the year’s final week
after moldy feed given to cows led to excessive levels of a
potentially carcinogenic toxin, Mengniu said Dec. 28. The
company has destroyed the contaminated products and will
strengthen its quality control, Mengniu said.  Stock declines have dragged the Shanghai Composite to trade
at a record low of 10.6 times estimated earnings, according to
weekly data compiled by Bloomberg. The  value of stocks (VOSHTVA)  traded in
Shanghai slumped on Dec. 29 to the least in three years.  “We have high inflation, an economic slowdown and very
tight money supply this year and that’s a picture of stagflation
that is pretty negative for equities,” said Wei Wei, an analyst
at West China Securities Co. in Shanghai. “The stock market may
find a bottom next year given cheap valuations. But in terms of
economic fundamentals, we haven’t seen an end to the slowdown.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nick Gentle in Hong Kong at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  