-- Thatcher Cabinet Discussed Jailing Journalists Over Coverage of 1981 Riot
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2011-12-30T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-30/thatcher-cabinet-discussed-jailing-reporters-over-riot-coverage.html
Margaret Thatcher ’s government
considered arresting journalists covering riots in Britain in
1981 as it blamed the media for fomenting violence in inner-city
areas, according to previously secret Cabinet papers.  Like  David Cameron ’s Tory-led government amid riots this
year, Thatcher’s Conservative Cabinet wrestled with the  violence
that spread across cities  including London, Liverpool and
Manchester in the summer of 1981. While Cameron looked at
shutting down social-media networks, Thatcher turned against
television companies and considered a change in the law to allow
reporters covering riots to be arrested, papers released today
after the  statutory 30-year delay  show.  “Reintroducing the Riot Act in a modernized form might be
presentationally helpful and would have the additional advantage
that anyone found on the streets once the statutory time from
reading the proclamation expired, including press and radio and
television reporters, would be guilty of an absolute offence,”
Home Secretary Willie Whitelaw told the Cabinet on July 9. He
was referring to the 1714 law, since repealed, that gave rise to
the phrase “read the Riot Act.”  Thatcher’s Cabinet faced similar challenges to Cameron’s as
they grappled with rising unemployment and young people with
“no loyalty to society.” Thatcher took a personal interest in
ensuring how money was spent to improve conditions and job
prospects in inner cities and her government decided the cash
should be allocated to broader “travel-to-work” areas around
cities so communities where there had been “well-organized
rioting” were not seen as being rewarded.  Rubber Bullets  The riots, which Cabinet minutes show ministers blamed on
radical socialist agitators and “problem families” as well as
television and unemployment, showed “an alarmingly widespread
lack of moral sense.” Ministers agreed to give police
permission to use rubber bullets, tear gas and water cannons on
rioters and to equip officers with flameproof uniforms.  Britain’s  unemployment rate (UKUEILOR)  shot up from 5.3 percent when
Thatcher’s government was elected in May 1979 to 9.4 percent two
years later, as measured by International Labor Organization
standards.  In the Brixton district of south London, riots broke out in
April 1981 after police used new stop-and-search powers to
detain disproportionate numbers of young black men. The violence
in Brixton, which inspired similar unrest across the country,
left 299 police officers and 65 civilians injured and 28
buildings burned out, with another 117 damaged and looted,
according to the  Metropolitan Police . It was the first time
Molotov cocktails had been thrown in mainland Britain, the
police said.  ‘Prominence to Violence’  “The generation of young people now growing up were
habituated to watching television for many hours every day, and
there was good reason to fear that television had undermined the
traditional disciplines of family life, and had given prominence
to violence in both news and entertainment programs,” the
record of the 1981 Cabinet discussion says. “The home secretary
should consider what more could be done to encourage the
broadcasting authorities to pay greater attention to the
possible side effects of the way in which they collected and
broadcast news items about violent incidents.”  Cameron told lawmakers in the House of Commons this year
that his government was considering closing down social-media
networks to stop them being used to encourage disorder. He
mentioned  Research In Motion Ltd.’s (RIMM)  BlackBerry Messenger service
as one of the tools that were used by rioters.  ‘Crack Down’  “Everyone watching these horrific actions will be struck
by how they were organized via social media,” Cameron said on
Aug. 11. Home Secretary Theresa May  met police chiefs and
social-media companies  two weeks later to discuss how to “crack
down on the networks being used for criminal behavior.”  On July 16, 1981, a week after discussing the arrest of
journalists, Thatcher’s Cabinet agreed it would be a mistake to
rush through new laws even though they would be supported in
Parliament. Ministers were told that Leslie Scarman, a judge who
was leading an inquiry into the Brixton unrest, had said he
would oppose a new version of the Riot Act.  Whitelaw met with the management of the  BBC  and the
Independent Broadcasting Authority, which regulated commercial
TV companies, and “impressed on them the great importance which
the government attached to the responsible reporting of civil
disturbances,” the record of the meeting says.  ‘Marked Improvement’  “He had also drawn their attention to the inflammatory
effect which the showing of violent entertainment films could
have during a period of heightened tension,” the notes of the
July 16 meeting say. “They had promised to bear his points in
mind, and there had in fact been a marked improvement in news
reporting in the last few days.”  Thatcher’s government said that tackling “hopelessness and
despair” was the best way to stop further riots. Even so,
minutes of a discussion about the economy on July 23, which
Thatcher described in her memoir as “one of the bitterest
arguments” in the Cabinet during her premiership, show
divisions among ministers over the best way to deal with rising
unemployment and stagnant growth.  A presentation by Chancellor of the Exchequer Geoffrey Howe, in which he admitted that “contrary to the government’s
expectations and promises, the burdens of tax and public
expenditure had both increased since 1979,” was described as
“inadequate” and not “sufficiently imaginative” by
unidentified ministers, the documents show.  ‘Open to Question’  “The assertion that tax reductions were a better way of
stimulating employment than additional public expenditure was
open to question,” according to the report of the meeting.
Trying to cut borrowing during a recession was “unrealistic,”
ministers told Howe, arguing in a similar way to the opposition
 Labour Party  today.  As today, the reaction of the markets hung over the
discussion. By early 1981,  gross domestic product (UKGRABIQ)  had shrunk for
five successive quarters, while the inflation rate, as measured
by the  retail price index (UKRPYOY) , was at 12.6 percent. It had been
above 10 percent since Thatcher took power.  “If the financial markets were to take the view that the
government’s determination was weakening, the economic strategy,
and the reduction of inflation, would be increasingly
vulnerable,” Howe told ministers. “The present burden of tax
was one of the main factors hindering the growth of new
employment opportunities,” he said, and public spending would
have to be cut to bring down taxes.  Thatcher’s determination to save money went from the large
to the small. A 1979 file just released shows her astonishment
at being told that it had cost more than 1,700 pounds (then
about $3,500) to refurbish the apartment at her Downing Street
residence, a quarter of that going on bed linen, with 200 pounds
going on crockery. “I find these figures impossible to
believe,” an aide wrote in the margin of the document.  “So do I!” wrote Thatcher underneath. “We only use one
bedroom. I could use my own crockery.” Seeing 19 pounds set
aside for the cost of a new ironing board, she wrote: “I will
pay. I have an excellent ironing board which is not in use at
home.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in  London  at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  