-- Australia Home Prices Drop 3.7% as Banks Doubt 2012 Rebound on Rate Cuts
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2011-12-30T02:34:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-30/australia-home-prices-drop-3-7-.html
Home prices  in  Australia ’s eight
capital cities slid 3.7 percent in the first 11 months of 2011,
extending the biggest drop in at least 12 years on concerns
Europe’s debt crisis may damp the nation’s economic growth.  Brisbane led the decline, slumping 7 percent in the
January-November period, followed by  Melbourne , which posted a
5.7 percent retreat, according to figures from RP Data, a real
estate researcher.  “The downside risk would come from global weakness
affecting the Australian economy,” said David Cannington, a
Melbourne-based economist at  Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd. (ANZ) , with A$161 billion ($164 billion) of mortgages as of
November. “The housing market will, broadly speaking, reflect
the relative strength or weakness of the Australian economy.”  Economists at the nation’s four-biggest banks, which hold
87 percent of mortgages, said the central bank’s interest rate
cuts won’t be enough to offset concerns about Europe’s crisis or
spur a rebound in the housing market. Home loans rose 5.7
percent in the 12 months through November, matching the weakest
annual pace since 1977, central bank data showed today.  Home prices dropped 3.5 percent in November from a year
earlier after falling 3.9 percent in October, the biggest slide
since RP Data began keeping records 12 years ago. Brisbane had
the biggest decline last month, down 7 percent, followed by
Melbourne with 5.6 percent. The  Reserve Bank  of Australia cut
interest rates for the second straight month on Dec. 6.  First-home Buyers  First-home buyers, who are more sensitive to changes in
interest rates, are already responding to the central bank’s
monetary policy easing, while buyers of luxury properties remain
on the sidelines, said James McIntyre, Sydney-based economist at
 Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) , the biggest mortgage provider,
who forecasts another 25 basis-point cut in rates in February.  First-time purchasers accounted for 17.9 percent of
dwellings financed in October, up from 16.4 percent in September,
according to statistics bureau data.  Prices in the top 20 percent of suburbs, which peaked in
August 2010, fell 7.3 percent in October from a year earlier,
according to RP Data.  “The nature of the transmission of the euro-zone crisis is
that it’s coming through financial flows into the Australian
economy rather than through real economic impacts,” McIntyre
said. “Those financial flows are having a significant impact at
the top end of the market, which has been falling at a similar
rate to which it declined during the global financial crisis.”  The mortgage book of Commonwealth Bank, including its
BankWest unit, totaled almost A$306 billion in November, APRA
figures show.  ‘Excessive Stock’  The four-biggest banks -- ANZ Bank, Commonwealth Bank,
 National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB)  and  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  -- had
outstanding housing loans worth almost A$927 billion in November,
according to bank regulator, the  Australian Prudential
Regulatory Authority .  The estimates from the economists range from a 2.5 percent
increase in home prices next year to a 2.5 percent decline.  Sydney will have the biggest gains when the market turns
around in the middle of next year, while Melbourne, which has
“excessive stock” on the market, won’t see prices recover
until at least the third quarter, said Louis Christopher,
managing director of housing data provider  SQM Research Pty.   Properties listed for sale in Melbourne surged 47 percent
in November from a year earlier, compared with a 16 percent rise
in Sydney, figures from SQM show. Home prices fell 0.5 percent
in Sydney in November, the smallest decline among the eight
capital cities, according to RP Data. They fell 1.1 percent in
the year to November.  Subdued Response  The Australian government in October 2008 doubled a grant
for first-time buyers of existing homes to A$14,000 and tripled
it for buyers of new properties. The move helped push prices up
13.6 percent in 2009.  Matthew Hassan , Sydney-based senior economist at Westpac,
forecasts two 25-basis-point cuts, in February and May.  “The lower  interest rates , without the additional measures
we saw in 2008 and 2009 targeting first-home buyers, will see a
response, but a fairly subdued one,” he said.  Home prices in the nation’s capital cities rose 4.7 percent
in 2010, according to RP Data. Building approvals plunged 29.8
percent in October from a year earlier, the steepest drop since
January 2009, according to a statistics bureau report.  Consumer confidence  in Australia fell in December to a
four-month low as concern mounted over rising unemployment and
the fall-out from the crisis. The country is headed for its
worst year of jobs expansion in 15 years, with payrolls on pace
for the smallest growth since 1996.  “Overall, we anticipate that the soft conditions are
likely to persist,” RP Data’s Kusher wrote. “ The availability
of credit is likely to remain tight, consumer confidence is
likely to remain volatile and who knows what will happen in
 Europe  and the U.S.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  