-- Bank Markazi Will Ask Court to Block Payment to Terror Victims
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2011-12-31T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-30/bank-markazi-aims-to-block-paying-judgment-to-terror-victims-2-.html
Iran’s Central Bank,  Bank Markazi
Jomhouri Islami Iran , will ask a U.S. judge in  New York  to
dismiss a suit freezing alleged Iranian assets held by  Citigroup
Inc. (C) , according to a court filing.  The assets were frozen as part of an attempt to collect on
a $2.7 billion judgment in a suit claiming Iran aided the 1983
bombing of a U.S. Marine Corps barracks in Beirut. A federal
judge in 2008 froze cash and bonds held in a custodial account
at Citibank in the name of Clearstream Banking SA, a bank based
in  Luxembourg .  Bank Markazi is scheduled in February to ask a federal
court in New York to dismiss a lawsuit seeking to enforce
collection of the judgment, claiming it’s barred by the U.S.
Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act, according to court papers. The
law limits claims against foreign governments. Clearstream is
also scheduled to ask that the freeze be lifted.  “Clearstream strongly condemns the 1983 terrorist attacks
on the U.S. military base in  Beirut , Lebanon, and deeply
sympathizes with the victims of those attacks and their
families,” Nicolas Nonnenmacher, a bank spokesman, said in an
e-mail. “As a custodian, Clearstream has a duty to protect its
customers’ assets, and believes the plaintiffs’ claims against
Clearstream are legally and factually without merit.”  “Citibank has complied with all applicable laws and court
orders in this case,” Molly Meiners, a spokeswoman for the New
York-based bank, said in an e-mailed statement. “It continues
to hold the assets that were frozen by the court and will comply
with any further orders from the court in the pending litigation
as to their disposition.”  The case is Peterson v. Islamic Republic of  Iran , 10-
cv-4518, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York federal court
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 