-- BofA Posts Worst Showing in Dow Average
-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 2011-12-30T21:35:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-30/bank-of-america-s-three-ring-circus-tops-dow-jones-list-of-2011-laggards.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  is this year’s
worst performer in the Dow Jones Industrial Average as concern
about mounting mortgage losses and a global economic slowdown
weighed on the second-biggest U.S. lender.  The 58 percent decline erased almost $80 billion of
shareholder value at Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of
America. It’s the firm’s largest drop since a 66 percent plunge
in 2008, when a U.S. bailout staved off a collapse. The bank
also ended 2011 last in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Financials
Index and the KBW Bank Index.  “What you have is like a three-ring circus, and in all the
rings for Bank of America, the show isn’t any good,” said Greg Donaldson, chairman of Evansville, Indiana-based Donaldson
Capital Management LLC, which oversees $500 million including
Bank of America shares. He cited new regulations, mounting costs
of bad loans and a lack of confidence in management. “You just
got one surprise after another this year,” Donaldson said.  Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan , 52, told his
staff in a year-end progress report last week that his effort to
boost the company’s value “is not yet translating into returns
for our shareholders.” Moynihan said he has prepared for
turmoil ahead by selling assets, reducing mortgage and credit-
card loans and pledging to lower annual costs by $5 billion,
including about 30,000 job cuts.  The Dow Jones Industrial Average gained 5.5 percent this
year, led by  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) ’s 31 percent advance, while the
80-company  S&P Financials (S5FINL)  slid 18 percent and the 24-member KBW
Bank Index lost 25 percent.  Larry DiRita , a Bank of America
spokesman, declined to comment.  List of Laggards  Some of Bank of America’s biggest peers also made the list
of laggards, with  Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-biggest U.S. bank by
assets, dropping 44 percent.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the largest
lender, slid 22 percent.  American International Group Inc. (AIG) , the
insurer owned mostly by the U.S. after its near-collapse in
2008, fell 52 percent for the second-worst showing in the S&P
Financials, and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  lost 46 percent.  Moynihan is trying to reverse a stock decline that began
soon after he replaced  Kenneth D. Lewis  at the end of 2009, when
the bank also repaid $45 billion of U.S. bailout funds. The
company’s shares, which reached $19.48 in April 2010, closed at
$5.56 at 4:15 p.m., as settlements with mortgage-bond investors
and insurers failed to stanch losses tied to the 2008 takeover
of subprime lender Countrywide Financial Corp.  Subprime Mortgages  The status of an $8.5 billion accord resolving some claims
from mortgage-bond buyers including BlackRock Inc. and Pacific
Investment Management Co. is being contested by outside
investors and may be tied up in courts through 2012. Meanwhile,
U.S.-owned mortgage firm Fannie Mae has stepped up demands that
Bank of America repurchase defective loans.  “They have this big exposure to  subprime mortgages (DLQTDLQT) , to
potentially settling with buyers of securitized subprime and
buying back loans that were improperly” bundled into bonds,
said Steven Persky, who oversees $1.4 billion in equities and
distressed debt as CEO of Los Angeles-based Dalton Investments
LLC. “Bank of America is too big to fail, but I’m not sure I’d
want to be an equity holder.”  Banks are grappling with more stringent requirements for
capital and new limits on fees at the same time the European
sovereign debt crisis threatens to derail the global economic
recovery. A $5 billion investment by Warren Buffett’s Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. announced in August only temporarily arrested a
slide triggered that month after markets were roiled by  Standard
& Poor’s  downgrade of the U.S. government’s debt.  Five Dollars  The stock’s drop has stung investors including  Bruce Berkowitz , whose Fairholme Capital Management LLC owned 105
million shares as of Sept. 30, and  John Paulson , whose hedge
fund held 64.3 million shares, according to Bloomberg data.  This month, Bank of America shares sold below $5 for the
first time since March 2009 as concern over Europe’s debt crisis
intensified. A sustained decline below $5 in 2012 could reduce
the bank’s appeal to investors, said Eric Teal, chief investment
officer at First Citizens Bancshares Inc., which manages $4
billion in Raleigh,  North Carolina .  Moynihan has said that while he is confident the bank can
withstand fallout from  Europe , growth in the U.S. may be slowed
if a European nation defaults on its debts.  Bank of America had about $363 billion of cash as of Sept.
30, enough to fund operations for two years without going to the
markets. The company also has been reducing risk related to the
weakest European nations, Chief Financial Officer  Bruce Thompson 
said in October.  “The market has given up on Moynihan, given up on their
story,” Donaldson said. “I may start buying Bank of America
shares soon. It’s priced as if it’s going out of business, and
it’s not going out of business.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at   hson1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Rick Green  at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 