-- Bankrupt Saab Automobile Said to Attract Interest From India’s Mahindra
-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 2011-12-30T16:51:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-30/bankrupt-saab-automobile-said-to-attract-interest-from-india-s-mahindra.html
Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. (MM) ,  India ’s
biggest sport-utility vehicle manufacturer, is interested in
buying at least parts of bankrupt Swedish carmaker  Saab
Automobile , two people familiar with the situation said.  Mahindra, based in Mumbai, is in the process of trying to
set up meetings with the two court-appointed administrators who
are overseeing Saab’s bankruptcy to possibly buy parts of the
carmaker or the whole company, said the people, who declined to
be identified because the plans are private. Mahindra has yet to
hold discussions with the administrators, the people said.  Roma Balwani, a Mahindra spokeswoman, declined to comment,
while Chief Financial Officer Bharat Doshi wrote in a text
message that he was in a meeting and wasn’t available to talk.  Swedish Automobile shares tripled in Amsterdam trading,
closing at 24 euro cents. The stock has plunged 93 percent
this year, valuing the Zeewolde, Netherlands-based company at
8.64 million euros ($11.2 million.)  Saab filed for bankruptcy Dec. 19 after running out of
cash.  General Motors Co. (GM)  sold the Trollhaettan, Sweden-based
company in February 2010 to Dutch sports-car maker  Spyker Cars
NV (SWAN) , which later changed its name to Swedish Automobile NV. Saab
first halted production in March, unable to pay suppliers. Chief
Executive Officer Victor Muller said this month that several
parties had expressed interest and that Saab still has a chance
to emerge from bankruptcy.  Turkish Suitor  At least one Turkish company is also interested in
investing in Saab, one of the people said. The Turkish
government wants the country to have a car brand of its own, and
is trying to help a manufacturer take over at least parts of
Saab, the person said.  Hans Bergqvist and Anne-Marie Pouteaux, the attorneys
handling the bankruptcy, didn’t immediately return messages
seeking comment.  Mahindra completed the purchase of a 70 percent stake in
 Ssangyong Motor Co. (003620)  earlier this year for about $368 million as
it sought to benefit from the Pyeongtaek, South Korea-based
company’s technology and international sales network.  Ssangyong, previously controlled by SAIC Motor Corp.,
sought  bankruptcy protection  in February 2009 after losses
caused by plunging SUV sales. The automaker said in March it
plans to spend more than 240 billion won ($208 million) on
product development and brand building this year after Mahindra
took control.  Mahindra Investments  Mahindra, the maker of Scorpio and Xylo vehicles, also
bought out  Renault SA (RNO) ’s stake in an Indian sedan-making venture
and acquired control of Bangalore-based Reva Electric Car Co.
last year to broaden its automobile lineup.  Muller, before declaring Saab bankrupt, had been pursuing a
600 million-euro loan from Zhejiang Youngman Lotus Automobile
and a Chinese bank. The move followed a failed attempt earlier
this year to sell a stake to a partnership of Jinhua, China-
based Youngman and auto dealer Pang Da Automobile Trade Co.  Saab has about 3,600 employees, 3,400 of whom are at the
main plant and offices in Trollhaettan. Sweden’s government will
pay their salaries for a limited time under the country’s
bankruptcy law.  The company traces its roots back to the establishment of
aircraft manufacturer Svenska Aeroplan AB, which was set up in
1937 and began building cars 10 years later. The auto business
was split off from the aerospace operations, now called  Saab AB (SAABB) ,
in the 1990s, with GM gaining a 50 percent stake in 1990 and
full control in 2000.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ola Kinnander in Stockholm  at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  