-- Barcelona Sets $38 Million Fee Limit for Bale: Mirror Says
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2011-12-30T10:53:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-30/barcelona-sets-38-million-fee-limit-for-bale-mirror-says.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Bale Limit  Barcelona has made Gareth Bale its top transfer target for
next summer, although it won’t pay more than 25 million pounds
($38.5 million) to sign the Tottenham winger, the  Daily Mirror 
said.  Spurs have insisted Bale is not for sale and are sure to
scoff at an offer that low, the Mirror said.  Barcelona is willing to sell midfielder Seydou Keita and
fullback Maxwell to fund the transfer fee, the Mirror said. It
could also offer 20 million euros and several young players to
Spurs, the newspaper said.  Staying Put  Luka Modric has said he’ll remain at Tottenham through the
end of the season, the Sun reported.  Chelsea made a play during the summer for Modric, who said
he wanted to leave Spurs, only to have the deal blocked by
Tottenham chairman  Daniel Levy . The Blues have once again been
linked with the Croatian international ahead of next month’s
transfer period, the Sun said.  “Considering all the circumstances, particularly due to
the fact I do not want to go over what I went through in the
summer transfer period, I can say with almost 100 percent
certainty that I will stay at Tottenham until the summer,” the
Sun quoted Modric as saying.  Jelavic Offer  Queens Park Rangers have made a 7-million pound bid for
Glasgow Rangers striker Nikica Jelvaic, the  Daily Mail  said.  Jelavic, who’s scored 28 goals in 43 appearances since
joining Rangers from Rapid Vienna in 2010, has also been linked
with Sunderland and Liverpool, the Mail said.  West Brom manager  Roy Hodgson , who was at Rangers’ 1-0 loss
at Celtic two days ago, has also inquired about Jelavic, the
 Daily Express  said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 