-- Boeing Beats Lockheed to Keep $3.5B Contract
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m   a n d   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2011-12-30T22:52:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-30/boeing-beats-lockheed-to-keep-3-5-billion-missile-shield-work.html
Boeing Co. (BA)  beat Lockheed Martin
Corp. to win a $3.48 billion, seven-year contract that lets it
keep its role as the primary developer of the U.S. shield
against intercontinental ballistic missiles.  The Missile Defense Agency announced the contract in a
statement today. The agency oversees the Ground-based Midcourse
Missile Defense, which includes interceptors in Alaska and
California, ground- and sea-based radar, satellites and a
command and control system.  The Boeing team, which included  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC)  of
 Falls Church , Virginia, delivered “a cost-effective approach to
program management and execution,” Dennis Muilenburg, chief
executive of Boeing’s defense unit, said in a statement.  Bethesda, Maryland-based Lockheed, the world’s largest
defense contractor, was seeking to dislodge Boeing from the
contract it has held since 1998 on a sole-source basis. Chicago-
based Boeing has said the program has totaled as much as $18
billion during the 10 years ending 2011.  Lieutenant General Patrick O’Reilly, head of the  Missile
Defense Agency , said in August 2010, when the agency was
preparing to call for bids, that it needed to contain costs.
“But before we get to cost, bidders have got to demonstrate
they’ve the capacity and capability, and also an ability to do
upgrades,” he said.  The government for the first time is stipulating that the
contractors will be held financially responsible for poor-
quality parts. The Ground-based Midcourse program had a 53
percent success rate in tests, with two, back-to-back test
failures in 2010. In October, the Missile Defense Agency said a
$300 million test failed because of a “guidance error” in the
warhead made by  Raytheon Co. (RTN)  of Waltham,  Massachusetts .  Parts defects have affected nearly every major space and
missile defense program, causing millions of dollars in cost
overruns and many months of schedule delays, Christina Chaplain,
an associate director at the U.S. Government Accountability
Office who follows the agency, said in an e-mail.  Lockheed’s team included Raytheon, which makes the non-
exploding warhead that is designed to seek and destroy enemy
missiles. Raytheon was on both teams.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in  Washington  at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net .
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 Msilva34@bloomberg.net  