-- Brown Wins Right to Use Redevelopment Funds to Patch California’s Budget
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o   a n d   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2011-12-30T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-30/brown-wins-right-to-use-redevelopment-funds-to-patch-california-s-budget.html
The California Supreme Court handed
Governor  Jerry Brown  a late holiday gift, ruling that more than
$1 billion in redevelopment funds can be used to fill a state
budget gap.  Four hundred agencies can be eliminated and their funds
used for education, roads and fire departments this year, the
San Francisco-based court ruled yesterday in a lawsuit
challenging two laws meant to provide an ongoing source of funds
for the state, which is facing a $13 billion  budget deficit .  Brown is counting on at least $1 billion from the
redevelopment agencies for the fiscal year ending June 30, said
H.D. Palmer, spokesman for the state Finance Department. The
ruling will also mean an additional $430 million in the
following year, cushioning schools from further cuts, he said.  The  California Supreme Court (313364L)  upheld a law that dissolved
the agencies and directed funds not needed to pay off debt to be
used for other purposes. The court majority struck down a
related law that allowed the agencies to survive only if they
agreed to make annual payments based on a portion of property-
 tax revenue  allocated to them.  Once the agencies are dissolved, the levies will be
distributed to local governments and schools under the formula
set by Proposition 13 in 1978, Palmer said. Since some of that
money will go toward schools, it would reduce the state’s
obligation to fund schools by an equal amount under Proposition
98, which sets the floor for public school funding, thereby
freeing the state to spend the money for other purposes.  ‘Key Component’  The court ruling “validates a key component of the state
budget and guarantees more than a billion dollars of ongoing
funding for schools and public safety,” Brown said in an e-
mailed statement yesterday.  Steven Mayer, an attorney for the  California  Redevelopment
Association, which sued the state along with the League of
California Cities, disputed that the ruling would lead to
seizure of $1.7 billion, as was estimated earlier. Mayer said
the court struck down the law that allowed the state to take
those funds.  “That’s not going to happen,” Mayer said in a phone
interview yesterday. Only about $1.1 billion of agency funds is
available to the state after taking into account debt
obligations and other payments, he said.  “This ruling is a tremendous blow to local job-creation
and economic advancement,” Julio Fuentes, president of the
League of California Cities, said in an e-mailed statement.
“The legislative record is abundantly clear that legislators
did not intend to abolish redevelopment.”  Eliminated Agencies  The two bills’ key elements eliminated the agencies and
preserved their assets and revenue for schools and fire and
police services. The third element would have kept alive
agencies that agreed to make annual payments calculated at
$1.7 billion for this fiscal year and $400 million for
subsequent fiscal years. The court struck down that part.  The California Redevelopment Association, the League of
California Cities and the cities of  San Jose  and Union City had
urged the court to overturn the laws, saying they violate
Proposition 22, a ballot measure approved by voters last year
that prevents the state from seizing revenue dedicated to local
government.  Brown, a Democrat who took office in January, had counted
on the money to balance the 2011-2012 budget and avoid deeper
cuts to education.  Affordable Housing  Redevelopment agencies provide funding for road, sewer,
lighting and affordable-housing projects across the state. Under
California’s 65-year-old redevelopment law, if a city or county
creates a redevelopment area to address urban blight, the agency
receives related property-tax revenue increases that may result,
known as the tax increment.  The California Supreme Court extended the deadlines for
using the redevelopment funds by four months. The payments were
originally slated to start Jan. 15.  The case is California Redevelopment Association v.
Matosantos, S194861, California Supreme Court ( San Francisco ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at   kgullo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  