-- California Low-Carbon Fuel Standard is Blocked by U.S. Judge
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2011-12-30T00:31:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-30/california-low-carbon-fuel-standard-is-blocked-by-u-s-judge-1-.html
California ’s low-carbon fuel
standard was blocked by a federal judge who found that it
discriminates against out-of-state corn ethanol and  crude oil 
and violates the Commerce Clause of the U.S. Constitution.  “The point of the LCFS is to penalize the differences
between the California and the Midwest ethanol,” U.S. District
Lawrence J. O’Neill in Fresno, California, said today in one of
three orders siding with agriculture and oil-industry groups and
denying a request by the  California Air Resources Board  to rule
in its favor.  The judge agreed with the farmers that California’s method
of assigning a higher so-called carbon intensity score to
ethanol produced in the Midwest, which is otherwise chemically
and physically identical to that produced in California, because
of factors such as electricity used to produce it and
transportation, discriminates against interstate commerce.  Similarly, the judge found that California discriminates
against  Alaska  and foreign crude oil by assigning these a higher
carbon intensity value.  The judge issued a preliminary injunction that stops
California from enforcing the standard until the lawsuit has
been resolved completely.  ‘Punitive for Farmers’  “The state of California overreached in creating its low
carbon fuel standard by making it unconstitutionally punitive
for farmers and ethanol producers outside of the state’s
border,” Bob Dinneen, chief executive officer of the Renewable
Fuel Association, and Tom Buis, chief executive of Growth
Energy, said in a joint statement.  “With this ruling, it is our hope that the California
regulators will come back to the table to work on a thoughtful,
fair, and ultimately achievable strategy for improving our
environment by incenting the growth and evolution of American
renewable fuels.”  Dave Clegern, a spokesman for the California Air Resources
Board in  Sacramento , didn’t immediately return a call to his
office seeking comment on the rulings.  The case is Rocky Mountain Farmers Union v. Goldstene,
09-2234, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of California
(Fresno).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  