-- Can Santorum Rally Anti-Romney Conservatives?: Margaret Carlson
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 2011-12-30T17:53:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-30/can-santorum-attract-anti-romney-voters-commentary-by-margaret-carlson.html
With  Iowa  Republicans preparing to
head to their overheated church basements for the Jan. 3
caucuses, today’s NBC-Marist  poll  shows Minnesota Representative
 Michele Bachmann  in single digits, and former Speaker  Newt Gingrich  passing Texas Governor  Rick Perry  going the wrong way
(down) through the low teens.  The poll also provides further confirmation of what
everyone in Iowa is talking about -- former Pennsylvania Senator
 Rick Santorum ’s timely surge. If it lasts, and Santorum lands in
Iowa’s top tier, former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney will
emerge from Iowa with something he hasn’t had through the
previous months of this campaign: an articulate, socially
conservative opponent who isn’t a clown and has a picture-
perfect family life to rival Romney’s own.  In fact, if you were to bolt a conservative candidate
together from spare parts -- and Santorum sometimes seems as if
he has been -- you would get something akin to the former
 Pennsylvania  senator. He has the conservative record and
rhetoric, and the personal life, to appeal to Christian and
economic conservatives. True, he’s done time in the toxic
Capitol, but in his 12 years as a senator, few fought harder for
conservative causes. He sponsored the partial birth abortion
bill and championed welfare reform and Federalist Society-
approved judicial appointments. He’s a hawk on defense, favors
lower tax rates and wears his faith on both sleeves.  Stillborn Child  In a mid-December Public Policy Polling  survey  of likely
caucus goers, Santorum had the best favorable-over-unfavorable
ratio of any of the candidates -- 56/29. (Romney’s, by
comparison, was 49/40.) Yet Santorum proves that having high
favorability is not the same as being liked. Voters don’t doubt
that he’s genuine -- the curse that afflicts Romney. It’s
possible, though, that they find him a tad intense.  He has related, for instance, how he brought his child,
stillborn at 20 weeks, home to meet his young children before
the burial. It doesn’t help that Santorum’s default facial
expression is a pout, which has been on regular display in the
Republican debates, where he scolds his rivals for their myriad
imperfections. He’s a bit like the unappealing kid your parents
wished you’d hang out with more, turning his homework in early
and asking Teacher for more.  Whatever the reasons, Santorum has had a tough time winning
affection from the most important bloc of Iowa Republicans:
evangelical conservatives. For the past year, they’ve resisted
Santorum, even though he has visited all of Iowa’s 99 counties,
some more than once, and held close to 400 town hall meetings.
Instead, they have fawned over Bachmann and Perry before
venturing into the red-light districts of  Herman Cain  and
Gingrich, whose seemingly insatiable need for repentance might
have taxed a less forgiving electorate.  Ultimately, Santorum has been hampered by doubts about his
ability to win. Since few thought he could, the burden of proof
became a self-fulfilling prophecy, keeping him from attracting
the financial support necessary to finance organization,
advertising and the aura of a contender.  His spectacular loss in 2006 hasn’t helped. Running against
Robert Casey, Jr., the son of one of Pennsylvania’s most popular
governors, in a year that was terrible for Republicans
nationwide, Santorum lost his reelection bid by a whopping 18
percentage points. He’s been out of elective office ever since.  The Dog Whistle  After the implosion of Bachmann and the struggles of Perry,
and with Gingrich descending faster than the New Year’s ball in
Times Square, evangelical conservatives appear to be finding
their way to Santorum. Last week, he won the support of one of
Iowa’s most powerful evangelical Republicans, Bob Vander Plaats,
who chaired former Arkansas Governor  Mike Huckabee ’s winning
Iowa campaign in 2008.  Could Santorum’s moment have arrived? “In the next five
days the social conservative dog whistle will blow loud for
Santorum,” Republican strategist  Mike Murphy  predicted on Dec.
29. “He can keep rising, could even catch Mitt.”  Given the Iowa expectations game, Santorum need only make
it into the same sentence with frontrunners Romney and Texas
Representative  Ron Paul , whose cranky, conspiracy-prone and
isolationist views will not carry him far beyond Iowa.  Santorum is so confident of emerging from the pile in Iowa
that he just committed money for television ads in  New
Hampshire , which votes on Jan. 10.  Meanwhile, in Iowa this
week, he received the kind of validation that every candidate
craves. Perry just launched a negative radio ad specifically
targeting Santorum. He’s arrived.  ( Margaret Carlson  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  Read More Bloomberg View  Columns :  To contact the writer of this article:
Margaret Carlson in  Washington  at 
 mcarlson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net . 