-- Canada Stocks Trail U.S. by Most Since ’98 as Commodities Fall
-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 2011-12-30T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-30/canada-stocks-trail-u-s-by-most-since-98-as-commodities-fall.html
Canadian stocks (SPTSX)  trailed U.S.
equities this year by the most since 1998 as the European debt
crisis and slowing growth in developing markets drove down
commodity shares.  The Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index fell  12 percent (SPTSX) 
in 2011 through yesterday, while the S&P 500 rose 0.4 percent,
the first year  Canada  has lagged behind the U.S. since 2003 and
the widest gap since crude oil slid below $11 a barrel 13 years
ago. Energy and mining stocks, almost half of Canada’s market by
value, fell as  Suncor Energy Inc. (SU) , the country’s largest oil and
gas producer, lost 24 percent and Teck Resources Ltd., its
biggest base-metals company, plunged 43 percent.  Canada’s oil, gas and metal shares slumped after valuations
soared in 2009-2010, as  oil prices  doubled and copper tripled
after the world pulled out of a recession, spurring a 50 percent
surge in the S&P/TSX. This year, the level of the S&P/TSX Energy
Index relative to profits fell as much as 43 percent, after
hitting the highest multiple since at least 2002 in March.  “That was an accident waiting to happen,”  James Cole , a
money manager whose Manulife Canadian Focus Fund has beaten 97
percent of other funds in its category this year, said in a
telephone interview. “Commodity stocks, which are very heavy in
the S&P/TSX, were being traded at very high multiples to
earnings, derived from very high commodity prices.”  The Euribor-OIS spread, a measure of euro-region banks’
reluctance to lend to one another, increased sixfold from June
14 to Dec. 1 as the debt crisis spread. Growth of industrial
production in China, the biggest user of base metals and second-
largest oil consumer, fell to the lowest rate since August 2009
last month. The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB commodity index
plunged 18 percent from its post-2008 high on April 29 to
yesterday.  Highest Since 2004  The valuation of Canadian Natural Resources Ltd., the
country’s second-biggest oil and gas producer, has fallen by
almost half since March, when the shares traded for 49 times
earnings, the highest multiple since 1999. Teck Resources was at
36 times earnings in January, the highest since 2004. It now
trades at 9.4 times earnings.  Energy and raw-materials companies make up 47 percent of
 Canadian stocks (SPTSX)  by market value, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. In the U.S., those industries make up 16 percent of
equities by market value, while health care, consumer staples
and utilities, considered to be less-tied to economic growth,
account for 24 percent.  Global Declines  The  S&P 500  of U.S. stocks is the only benchmark index for
the 24 developed markets that advanced this year, while the
Canadian measure has the sixth-smallest retreat. The MSCI World
Index fell 7.9 percent through yesterday, and the  Stoxx Europe
600 Index (SXXP)  decreased 12 percent as concern over potential
sovereign-debt defaults drove its banks down 33 percent.  Toronto-Dominion Bank cut its 2012 global economic-growth
forecast to 2.5 percent on Dec. 14 from 3.2 percent in
September. A failure to contain  Europe ’s crisis “could very
well unleash a financial chain reaction that would rapidly
spread globally,” the lender said in a note to clients.
Citigroup Inc. and UBS AG cut their world gross domestic product
forecasts last month.  Shares of Canadian commodity producers have lost more this
year than the commodities themselves. Short-term oil futures
gained 9.1 percent through yesterday as political unrest in the
 Middle East  and northern  Africa  helped sustain prices. Crude
futures for 2015 and beyond have declined, like energy stocks.  Recession Concerns  “Commodity stocks are reflecting longer expectations that
we’ll see lower commodity prices,” Kate Warne, the investment
strategist for Canada and the U.S. at Edward Jones & Co. in  Des
Peres ,  Missouri , said in an interview in Toronto. “With
concerns about the recession in Europe and the slowdown in
 China , we’ve seen the impact hit both energy stocks as well as
commodity prices, and therefore materials stocks, pretty hard.”  The S&P 500 advanced, even as the 23 other developed-market
national stock indexes fell, due mostly to gains in utilities,
consumer-staples and health-care stocks. Those so-called
defensive industries take up three times as much of the stock
market by value in the U.S. as they do in Canada, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “In the U.S., the kind of stocks that have done well have
been classic defensive areas,” Bruce Cooper, head of equities
at TD Asset Management, said in a telephone interview. The unit
of Toronto-Dominion Bank oversees about C$190 billion ($186
billion). “The most important driver is that differentiation
between the more-defensive stocks in the U.S. and those more-
cyclical stocks in Canada.”  Trailing Peers  Even within some industries, Canadian equities have trailed
their U.S. counterparts. The  S&P 500 Energy Index (S5ENRS)  increased 2.9
percent this year through yesterday, while its Canadian
equivalent declined 13 percent. Fortis Inc., Canada’s largest
publicly traded electricity producer, fell 3 percent, while
 Southern Co. (SO) , the biggest U.S. utility by market value, gained
22 percent.  The S&P/TSX has also been held back by losses in shares of
BlackBerry maker  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM)  and Manulife Financial
Inc.,  North America ’s fourth-largest insurer. RIM sank 75
percent this year through yesterday as it lost market share to
Apple Inc. and devices using Google Inc.’s Android operating
system. Manulife tumbled 38 percent as falling equities and
historically low bond yields reduced investment income.  U.S. outperformance may reflect a shift toward larger
stocks as investors shy away from risk, Cooper said. Companies
in the S&P 500 have an average market value of $24 billion,
almost four times as much as the S&P/TSX.  Premium Eliminated  The S&P/TSX’s slide has  wiped out (SPTSX)  its valuation premium
over the S&P 500. Both indexes now trade at 11.8 times analysts’
earnings forecasts for the next 12 months after Canadian stocks
had been more expensive for two years.  Stephen Lingard, a Toronto-based  money manager  at Franklin
Resources Inc.’s Franklin Templeton Multi-Asset Strategies, said
he is likely to sell U.S. stocks if European leaders craft a
plan that reduces the risk to equities from the debt crisis.  “The U.S. has served its purpose in a defensive market,”
said Lingard, whose unit oversees about $25 billion. “We’re not
horrified by what’s going on.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Walcoff in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  