-- CDR Financial, Founder Plead Guilty in Bid-Rigging Case
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 2011-12-31T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-30/cdr-s-david-rubin-pleads-guilty-in-investigation-of-municipal-bid-rigging.html
CDR Financial Products Inc. and its
founder, David Rubin, pleaded guilty less than a week before
trial on charges tied to a federal investigation of bid- and
auction-rigging in the municipal  bond market .  Rubin, 50, and his Beverly Hills, California-based firm
were charged along with two other employees. Prosecutors said
Rubin, who served as chief executive officer, took kickbacks for
running sham auctions for investments.  He pleaded guilty along with the company yesterday in
Manhattan federal court. Jury selection in the trial of former
CDR Chief Financial Officer Z. Stewart Wolmark and Vice
President Evan Zarefsky is set to begin next week and was to
include Rubin as a defendant. Rubin tried unsuccessfully to have
the trial postponed because his wife is in the final stages of
terminal cancer.  “Mr. Rubin has accepted responsibility for his conduct and
has pled guilty,”  Bradley Simon , a lawyer representing Rubin,
said in a phone interview after Rubin’s plea. “Mr. Rubin will
now be able to direct all of his energies to caring for his wife
and family during this critical time.”  Rubin, who began sobbing at the mention of his wife in the
hearing yesterday, will be sentenced April 27. He was allowed to
remain free on bail.  Faces Fines  Rubin and CDR both pleaded guilty to two counts of
conspiracy and one count of  wire fraud , according to the
government. Rubin, CDR’s sole shareholder, pleaded guilty for
the company, Simon said.  Rubin faces as much as 35 years in prison. Rubin may also
be ordered to pay $1.5 million, according to prosecutors. CDR
faces fines of as much as $101 million. The fines may be
increased to double the amount gained from the crime or double
the loss to victims, the government said.  “Mr. Rubin and his firm were trusted with public money and
confidence to assist municipalities with issuing bonds,” FBI
Assistant Director in Charge Janice Fedarcyk said in a news
release. “Contrary to his agreement and the law, Mr. Rubin
shirked his responsibilities while defrauding taxpayers.
Thankfully, the bid-rigging scheme, where Mr. Rubin decided the
winners and losers, is over.”  Five-Year Investigation  Rubin’s conviction is a victory for federal antitrust
prosecutors in their five-year investigation of the $3.7
trillion municipal bond market.  Bank of America Corp., (BAC)   JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  UBS AG, (UBSN)   Wells
Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and  General Electric Co. (GE)  previously acknowledged
that former employees engaged in illegal activity. The companies
have paid $743 million in restitution and penalties.  So far, the Justice Department has filed charges against 18
former executives of financial-services firms. With Rubin, 10
have pleaded guilty.  Michael McGovern, the attorney representing Wolmark and Dan
Zelenko, the attorney representing Zarefsky, didn’t immediately
respond yesterday to a request for comment about the effect of
Rubin’s plea on their clients.  If Rubin cooperates with prosecutors, his testimony may
bolster the government’s cases against three former GE bankers
and three former UBS employees. The trial for former GE bankers
Dominick Carollo,  Peter Grimm  and Steven Goldberg is scheduled
to begin in April.  Kickbacks  The government alleges the former executives paid kickbacks
to CDR of as much as $475,000 in exchange for inside information
about competing bids and used that information to win deals.  Rubin, a prominent figure in  Los Angeles ’s Orthodox Jewish
community who serves as chairman of the Yavneh Hebrew Academy,
was also a prolific Democratic fundraiser. In  New Mexico , CDR
received almost $1.5 million in fees for advising the New Mexico
Finance Authority in 2004 after donating $100,000 to political
groups affiliated with former Governor Bill Richardson.  The  Justice Department  investigated the deals without
bringing charges.  Rubin has also given to other prominent politicians,
including President  Barack Obama , who received $31,800,
according to Federal Election Commission records. He also
donated a total of $133,000 to the  Democratic National Committee 
and the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, records
show.  ‘Widespread Corruption’  A grand jury in  New York  in October 2010 indicted Rubin.
The U.S. said the defendants conspired to rig bids on contracts
with local governments to invest the proceeds of bond issues.
The indictment alleged that CDR and its employees, who handled
the bidding, chose firms to provide the contracts in advance in
exchange for kickbacks.  The federal investigation has exposed “widespread
corruption” in a segment of the municipal market that deals
with the investment of proceeds from bond issues, the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission has said.  States and local governments purchase investment contracts,
allowing them to earn a return until the cash is needed for
public-works projects.  Contracts were supposed to be awarded to banks that offered
the highest return at competitive auctions arranged by advisers
such as CDR.  U.S. prosecutors had amassed almost 800,000 tape recordings
and 125 million pages of documents during a three-year
investigation of CDR, defense lawyers said earlier this year.  Gail Rubin, Rubin’s wife of 26 years and the mother of his
seven children, is in the final stages of pancreatic cancer in
 California , where they live, his lawyers said in papers filed
with a federal appeals court in New York.  Rubin claimed his wife’s illness and concerns for his
children would make it impossible for him to adequately
participate in his defense.  The case is U.S. v. Rubin/Chambers, Dunhill Insurance
Services Inc., 09-CR-01058, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York federal court
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
Martin Braun in New York at   mbraun6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 