-- Chesapeake Hasn’t Yet Closed Utica Joint Venture
-- B y   M i k e   L e e
-- 2011-12-30T21:21:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-30/chesapeake-hasn-t-yet-closed-utica-joint-venture-correct-.html
Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  hasn’t
completed a joint venture valued at $2.14 billion in Ohio’s
Utica shale formation that it said would close by mid-December.  “We will have an announcement when the JV agreement is
complete,” Jim Gipson, a spokesman for Chesapeake, said in an
e-mail yesterday.  Chesapeake said Nov. 3 it had signed a letter of intent
with an unidentified international energy company to fund
drilling in the Utica formation. The letter called for
“execution of definitive transaction documents and closing by
mid-December 2011,” according to a statement.  The letter of intent doesn’t have an expiration date, Vice
President Michael Kehs said in an e-mail. The deadline was
“aspirational, not required,” Kehs said.  Chesapeake said it was selling 25 percent of 650,000 acres
in the field it co-owns with Houston-based EnerVest Ltd. The
buyer will pay Chesapeake $640 million in cash and $1.5 billion
in future drilling costs, according to the statement.  EnerVest Chief Executive Officer  John Walker  declined to
comment yesterday.  Chesapeake CEO Aubrey McClendon said Nov. 30 that an
announcement would come by the end of 2011.  Total SA, France’s largest oil and gas producer, may be the
unnamed partner, a person with knowledge of the matter told
Bloomberg on Dec. 7.  Last-Minute Delays  The transaction may have been delayed by last-minute
negotiations,  Scott Hanold , an analyst at  RBC Capital Markets  in
Minneapolis, said in an interview.  “Some of these take longer,” said Hanold, who rates
Chesapeake’s shares a “buy” and owns none.  Chesapeake has “an extremely strong track record of
getting deals done and closed,” Michael Hall, an analyst with
Robert W. Baird & Co., said in an e-mail. Hall rates
Chesapeake’s shares an “outperform” and owns none.  The Utica formation stretches from  Ohio  to Canada and may
hold as much as 5.5 billion barrels of oil and 15.7 trillion
cubic feet of gas.  Chesapeake, which has leased 1.5 million net acres in the
Utica, needs capital to fund its drilling, Hanold said.  Chesapeake, based in  Oklahoma City , has signed seven joint
ventures worth more than $10 billion to fund the cost of
drilling in fields from Texas to  North Dakota .  Chesapeake fell 1.9 percent to close at $22.29 in  New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Lee in Dallas at 
 mlee326@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  