-- CLP Cuts Planned Power Price Increase for Second Time in 2 Weeks
-- B y   M a r c o   L u i   a n d   S o p h i e   L e u n g
-- 2011-12-30T05:32:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-30/clp-cuts-planned-power-price-increase-for-second-time-in-2-weeks.html
CLP Holdings Ltd. (2) ,  Hong Kong ’s
biggest electricity supplier, reduced its planned price increase
for the second time in two weeks following criticism from the
city’s government.  The utility will raise prices by 4.9 percent starting Jan.
1, compared with the 7.4 percent increase proposed last week,
Betty Yuen, vice chairman of CLP Power Hong Kong Ltd., the
generation unit, told reporters in Hong Kong today. CLP said Dec.
16 it has no room to lower a planned 9.2 percent increase.  Hongkong Electric Co., the city’s smaller power supplier,
on Dec. 15 scrapped its original proposal of a 6.3 percent raise
after a public outcry and revised its increase to less than 5
percent for most households. Hong Kong Chief Executive  Donald Tsang  said  Dec. 14  the increases were “not acceptable” amid
accelerating inflation and that power companies shouldn’t be
“causing hardship to Hong Kong people.”  “The final package is the result of extensive discussion
with the government,” Yuen said. “We believe the government
will find this package acceptable.”  CLP is able to reduce the proposed increase by cutting
operating costs and cancelling planned capital expenditure for
capacity expansion, Yuen said.  The shares rose 0.8 percent to HK$66.05 in Hong Kong
trading as of the midday break, compared with the 0.4 percent
gain in the benchmark  Hang Seng Index. (HSI)  Power Assets Holdings
Ltd., the parent of Hongkong Electric, advanced 0.7 percent.  Inflation may accelerate to 5.2 percent this year, the
fastest pace since 1997, according to an official estimate in
November. Financial Secretary  John Tsang  rolled out electricity
subsidies and a waiver of property rates in his February budget
to help residents cope with rising costs.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marco Lui in Hong Kong at 
 mlui11@bloomberg.net ;
Sophie Leung in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net . 