-- Commodities Poised for First Annual Decline Since 2008 on Europe
-- B y   G l e n y s   S i m   a n d   M i l l i e   M u n s h i
-- 2011-12-30T21:35:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-30/commodities-poised-for-first-annual-decline-since-2008-on-european-crisis.html
Commodities (SPGSCITR)  posted the first annual
drop since 2008, paced by declines in cotton, copper and cocoa,
on concern that the sovereign-debt crisis in  Europe  and a
cooling Chinese economy will sap demand for raw materials.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Total Return  Index (SPGSCITR)  of
commodities fell 0.1 percent to 4,885.3 at 3:50 p.m. in New
York, down 1.2 percent for 2011. Cocoa plunged 31 percent in
2011 on signs of expanding supplies from  Ivory Coast , the
world’s biggest grower. Cotton fell 37 percent this year amid
rising output and dwindling demand. Copper, often seen as an
indicator of economic activity it is used in construction and
automobiles, posted its first loss since 2008.  Economic growth in  China , the world’s biggest copper user,
will slow to 8.5 percent next year, after growing 10.4 percent
in 2010, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development projected on Nov. 28. Manufacturing in December
contracted for a second month as global growth faltered and
Premier  Wen Jiabao  prolonged a crackdown on speculation in the
housing market. Global equity markets have lost $6.3 trillion in
value this year as Europe’s debt crisis and slowing economic
expansion weighed on investor demand for riskier assets.  “The two biggest drivers have been the global economic
environment and the Chinese economy,” said Dan Denbow, a co-
fund manager of the $2.1 billion USAA Precious Metals and
Minerals Fund in  San Antonio . “What happens next year really
depends on what happens with global growth. Investors may not be
as quick to come back to commodities unless they get a very good
feeling about global growth.”  Gold, Oil  Advances in gold, oil and cattle helped limit commodity
losses. Gold, 10 percent higher in 2011, capped an 11th straight
year of gains as investors seek protection against financial
markets turmoil. Oil climbed 8.2 percent this year, the third
annual gain, on speculation that escalating tension in the
 Middle East  will disrupt supplies as a recovery in the  U.S.
economy  bolsters demand. Cattle futures in  Chicago  rallied 12
percent as the U.S. herd shrank.  The dollar’s rally, up 1.6 percent this year against six
foreign-exchange peers, has curbed demand for commodities priced
in the U.S. currency. Treasuries gained 9.6 percent, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data show. Still, raw materials
outperformed equities as the  MSCI (MXWD)  All Country World Index of
stocks dropped 9.5 percent.  European Crisis  Commodities plunged 46.5 percent in 2008 as the collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. triggered the worst recession
since the Great Depression and sent global equity markets
tumbling. Raw-material prices rebounded 13.5 percent in 2009 and
rallied 9 percent last year as governments around the world
ramped up stimulus spending to boost their economies.  The S&P GSCI Index touched an 11-month low in October,
extending its decline from an April peak to more than the 20
percent threshold of a  bear market , as investors cut holdings of
commodities amid slower economic expansion. There is a 50
percent chance of recessions in the U.S., the U.K. and euro-zone
economies in the next 12 months,  Nouriel Roubini , the economist
who predicted the U.S. housing bubble that started the last
slump, said in October.  Goldman Sachs said in a Dec. 1 report that the world
probably will avoid a recession and maintained its
“overweight” allocation to commodities, predicting a 15
percent return in the next 12 months. A close balance between
supply and demand across raw materials “could drive a strong
price rebound in early 2012,”  Barclays Capital  said this month.  Metals’ Performance  The  LMEX (LMEX)  index of six industrial metals retreated 22
percent this year, led by declines in tin, nickel and zinc. Spot
silver is 10 percent lower in 2011, its first annual decline
since 2009. Palladium fell 18 percent, and platinum lost 21
percent.  “Problems in the U.S., Europe and China have all
contributed to the weaker performance this year,” said Nick Trevethan, a senior commodities strategist at Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd. “The risk in moving into 2012 is
what’s going to happen in Europe particular. Some kind of major
events there could put more pressure on the market from a
sentiment perspective.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Glenys Sim in Singapore at 
 gsim4@bloomberg.net ;
Millie Munshi in  New York  at 
 mmunshi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net ;
 Richard Dobson  at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  