-- Crude Oil Pares Third Annual Increase as Manufacturing in China Contracts
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2011-12-30T21:15:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-30/crude-oil-pares-third-annual-increase-as-chinese-manufacturing-contracts.html
Oil fell, paring a third annual
increase, as Chinese manufacturing contracted for a second month
in December, spurring concern that demand from the world’s
second-largest crude-consuming country may slow.  Futures dropped 0.8 percent after the report by HSBC
Holdings Plc and Markit Economics also showed  China ’s  exports (CNFREXPY) 
fell for the first time in three months as Europe’s debt crisis
reduced orders. Oil advanced 8.2 percent in 2011 as a collapse
in Libyan exports cut supply, U.S. stimulus measures revived the
economy and Iran threatened to close the Strait of Hormuz.  “The negative data out of China as well as general
European concern put some pressure on crude,” said  Tom Bentz , a
director with BNP Paribas Prime Brokerage Inc. in New York.
“Volume is very light and it doesn’t take a lot to move this
market around.”  Crude for February delivery slid 82 cents to settle at
$98.83 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Prices
slipped 1.5 percent this month and 0.9 percent this week. Oil
surged 25 percent in the three months ended today, the biggest
quarterly gain since the period ended June 30, 2009.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 276,801
contracts as of 4:14 p.m. in  New York . Volume totaled 291,175
yesterday, 53 percent below the three-month average. Open
interest was 1.32 million contracts.  Brent for February settlement dropped 63 cents, or 0.6
percent, to $107.38 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe Exchange, up 13 percent this year. Brent rose 4.5 percent
in the fourth quarter. It fell 0.5 percent this week and 2.8
percent in December.  Chinese Manufacturing  The Chinese purchasing managers’ index was at 48.7 in
December, up from 47.7 in November, according to HSBC and
Markit. A reading below 50 indicates a contraction.  A deeper slowdown in China, the world’s second-biggest
economy, would impair a global expansion that is already
faltering because of  Europe ’s austerity measures. China used
9.06 million barrels a day of oil in 2010, or 10 percent of
world’s total consumption, according to the BP Statistical
Review of World Energy.  Crude surged to the highest level in more than two years in
May, trading at $114.83 in New York after a popular uprising in
 Tunisia  sparked similar protests across the Middle East and
North Africa. Clashes in Libya between rebels and forces loyal
to then-leader  Muammar Qaddafi  cut off more than 1.5 million
barrels a day of oil exports from the country.  U.S. Economy  An improving economic outlook in the U.S., the world’s
biggest oil consumer, also helped oil, even as Europe’s debt
crisis threatened to plunge the region into recession.  “The  U.S. economy  is getting back slightly and that’s kind
of supporting the market,” said Chris Dillman, an analyst and
broker at Tradition Energy in Stamford,  Connecticut .  The U.S. unemployment rate fell to 8.6 percent in November,
the lowest level since March 2009, after lingering at 9 percent
or above for seven straight months.  “The economic recovery and geopolitical concern are
pushing up oil,” said James Williams, an economist at WTRG
Economics, an energy research firm in  London ,  Arkansas . “The
U.S. is still the world’s biggest oil consumer.”  The U.S. used 19.1 million barrels a day of oil in 2010, or
21 percent of global demand, according to BP’s Statistical
Review.  Oil inventories (DOESCRUD)  in the U.S. fell to 323.6 million barrels
in the week ended Dec. 16, the lowest level since Dec. 26, 2008,
according to the Energy Department.  Iranian Threat  Iran  threatened this week to block the Strait of Hormuz, a
major oil shipping channel, if sanctions are imposed on its
crude exports. The country also faces a possible boycott by
European buyers. The threat is “irrational behavior,”  Victoria Nuland , a U.S. State Department spokeswoman in  Washington , said
yesterday.  About a fifth of global crude supply travels through the
seaway, according to the Energy Department.  “The geopolitical risk premium will support higher prices
at the outset of 2012,” said Thina Saltvedt, an analyst at
Nordea Bank AB in Oslo. “I expect prices to increase at the
start of next week as the tension increases in the world’s most
vital oil-producing area.”  Oil prices may rise next week amid geopolitical tension in
the  Middle East , a Bloomberg News survey showed. Thirteen of 32
analysts, or 41 percent, forecast crude will increase through
Jan. 6.  “The odds are looking very high that there will be an oil
embargo on Iran next year,” said Phil Flynn, an analyst with
PFGBest in  Chicago .  Exchanges in New York and London will be closed Jan. 2 to
observe the New Year’s Day holiday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net  