-- TCW, Gundlach Settle Suit Over Firing
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2011-12-30T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-30/tcw-gundlach-settle-suit-over-firing-trade-secrets-as-terms-undisclosed.html
TCW Group Inc. and  Jeffrey Gundlach ,
its former chief investment officer, said they settled a lawsuit
over Gundlach’s firing in 2009 and allegations he stole  trade
secrets  to set up his own firm.  TCW and the company founded by Gundlach, DoubleLine Capital
LP, “jointly announce that they have settled all claims between
and among themselves as well as DoubleLine Funds Trust, Jeffrey
Gundlach, and other individuals,” TCW said yesterday in a
statement. “The terms of the settlement are confidential and
the parties will not discuss them.” DoubleLine separately
issued a statement confirming the agreement.  TCW, the Los Angeles-based unit of  Societe Generale SA (GLE) , and
DoubleLine Capital LP, the asset-management firm Gundlach
started within weeks after TCW fired him in 2009, In September,
a jury awarded Gundlach and three other former TCW employees who
had joined his firm $66.7 million in unpaid wages.  The  Los Angeles  jury also found that Gundlach had breached
his fiduciary duty to TCW, without awarding the firm any
damages. California Superior Court Judge Carl West was to decide
what “reasonable royalties,” if any, TCW was entitled to based
on the jury’s finding that Gundlach had misappropriated trade
secrets.  TCW sued Gundlach, 52, in January 2010, after more than
half of its fixed-income professionals joined DoubleLine. TCW
said at trial that it suffered $566 million in damages.  ‘Through the Roof’  Gundlach, who had worked at TCW for 25 years and was named
Morningstar’s Fixed Income Manager of the Year in 2006,
countersued, saying TCW fired him to avoid having to pay
management and performance fees for the distressed-asset funds
his group managed and that went “through the roof.” Gundlach
sought about $500 million.  ``We're pleased that an agreement has been reached and that 
matter is now behind us,'' Peter Viles, a TCW spokesman, said. 
``TCW is well positioned to continue the strong momentum and 
growth it has established over the past two years.''  The jury heard more than six weeks of testimony as the two
sides provided conflicting views of Gundlach’s falling out with
TCW Chief Executive Officer  Marc Stern  in 2009, which ended with
Stern’s buying Metropolitan West Asset Management LLC to run
TCW’s fixed-income group and firing Gundlach in December 2009.  Stern testified that he became suspicious of Gundlach after
a series of September 2009 meetings and instructed TCW’s in-
house lawyer to start monitoring the e-mail of Gundlach and
others in his group. The investigation showed some of Gundlach’s
subordinates were downloading TCW’s proprietary information and
looking for  office space , Stern said.  Gundlach denied that DoubleLine used any of TCW’s
proprietary software systems and data.  DoubleLine’s lawyers argued that Stern started looking to
replace Gundlach as early as June 2009, about the time Stern
returned to active management. Gundlach and other senior
managers at TCW had opposed Stern’s return from retirement and
wanted the firm to be run by a management committee instead.  60 Percent  Gundlach had negotiated for him and his group to receive 60
percent of the performance fees for the distressed-asset funds
he set up in 2007 and 2008. The funds invested in mortgage-
backed securities that were downgraded and dropped in value with
the collapse of the U.S. housing market.  As the funds performed better than expected, Paris-based
Societe Generale and TCW wanted to replace Gundlach with a less
expensive asset manager, DoubleLine’s lawyers said. TCW argued
that Gundlach wasn’t entitled to management and performance fees
from the funds after his firing.  Societe Generale,  France ’s second-biggest bank, is weighing
whether to put TCW Group up for sale, people familiar with the
matter who didn’t want to be identified because it wasn’t public
said in November. One option was a management-led buyout of the
business, said two of the people at the time.  The case is Trust Co. of the West v. Gundlach, BC429385,
California Superior Court, Los Angeles County (Los Angeles).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  