-- Deerhunter Star Cox Goes Solo With Guitar Loops: NYC Music
-- B y   J a i m e   W i d d e r
-- 2011-12-31T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-30/deerhunter-star-cox-goes-solo-with-blissed-out-guitar-loops-n-y-c-music.html
Fog covered the stage at the  Bowery
Ballroom  on Dec. 18 as Bradford Cox, in flannel shirt and vest,
stood at the lone microphone with guitar in hand and harmonica
in neck mount.  Cox, who goes by the solo alias Atlas Sound when he isn’t
fronting the band Deerhunter, started with the title track from
his excellent third album, “Parallax.” He built up the song
with looped guitar and layered vocals that conveyed a sense of
pain. It was an opener that silenced and entranced the crowd for
the night ahead.  All the tracks he played from “Parallax” gained in the
live translation as Cox manipulated the effects pedals at his
feet. “Te Amo” offered a heavy five-minute intro with
sparkling effects as Cox added drum beats and multiple guitar
scales before breaking into the first lines. Almost 10 minutes
elapsed as lights swirled and his strumming intensified. It was
organized chaos that slowly evolved into musical bliss.  Each song felt like an audio collage being composed on the
spot. From his 2008 debut solo album, he played the dreamy
“Recent Bedroom” with effects that mushroomed in size while
the stage basked in red lights. The altered state continued on
the spaced-out “Modern Aquatic Nightsongs.”  Not all songs relied on effects. For “ Mona Lisa ,” one of
the more poppy songs off “Parallax,” Cox let the vocal, tempo
changes and harmonica do all the work. The night’s most gripping
moment may have come with “Terra Incognita,” a slightly creepy
tune carried by anguished lyrics and prickly guitar riffs that
all drift into simple hypnotic “ooos.”  After completing his 75-minute main set, Cox returned for a
seasonal “Artificial Snow,” followed by the drifting
“Flagstaff” with a perfect segue into the closing “Attic
Lights.” It was almost midnight.  Coming in 2012  Several groups have announced 2012 releases, including the
seventh from Air, “Le Voyage Dans La Lune,” which resulted
from the French electronic duo being asked to compose a modern
score for the 1902 George Melies film. Veteran English rockers
Spiritualized will be unveiling their seventh as well, “Sweet
Heart Sweet Light” in March.  The soulful heartbreaker Chan Marshall, better known as Cat
Power, is coming out at midyear with her first record of new
material since 2006’s “The Greatest.” Indie experimentalist
Animal Collective present new material at some point in 2012.  There are sophomore follow-ups from UK minimalists the XX,
English rock duo the Big Pink, and local hip hop artist
Santigold.  For the month ahead, New York will continue to see the no-
longer-reclusive Jeff Mangum for a three-night sold-out run at
 Brooklyn Academy of Music , Jan. 19-21. Also we have the comedy
duo of Fred Armisen and Carrie Brownstein -- a member of the
all-female rock group Sleater-Kinney -- bringing their hit show
Portlandia to life at the  Music Hall of Williamsburg  Jan 20 and
 Bowery Ballroom  Jan. 21. Both shows are sold out.  Here’s a selection of New York-area shows in January.
Please note that opening bands aren’t always listed. Shows
marked (SO) are sold out, although online services such as
Craigslist often have tickets:  (Jaime Widder works in sales for Bloomberg News. Any
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Jaime Widder in  New York  at 
 jwidder@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 