-- TCW, JPMorgan, Marvel, HP, Citigroup, AT&T in Court News
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2011-12-30T12:27:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-30/deutsche-telekom-marvel-sk-holdings-hp-in-court-news.html
TCW Group Inc. and  Jeffrey Gundlach ,
its former chief investment officer, said they settled a lawsuit
over Gundlach’s firing in 2009 and allegations he stole trade
secrets to set up his own firm.  TCW and the company founded by Gundlach, DoubleLine Capital
LP, “jointly announce that they have settled all claims between
and among themselves as well as DoubleLine Funds Trust, Jeffrey
Gundlach, and other individuals,” TCW said yesterday in a
statement. “The terms of the settlement are confidential and
the parties will not discuss them.” DoubleLine separately
issued a statement confirming the agreement.  TCW, the Los Angeles-based unit of  Societe Generale SA (GLE) ,
sued Gundlach in January 2010 after more than half of its fixed-
income professionals joined DoubleLine. TCW said at trial that
it suffered $566 million in damages. In September, a jury
awarded Gundlach and three other former TCW employees who had
joined his firm $66.7 million in unpaid wages.  The  Los Angeles  jury also found that Gundlach had breached
his fiduciary duty to TCW, without awarding the firm any
damages. California Superior Court Judge Carl West was to decide
what “reasonable royalties,” if any, TCW was entitled to based
on the jury’s finding that Gundlach had misappropriated trade
secrets.  Gundlach, 52, who had worked at TCW for 25 years and was
named Morningstar’s Fixed Income Manager of the Year in 2006,
countersued, saying TCW fired him to avoid having to pay
management and performance fees for the distressed-asset funds
his group managed and that went “through the roof.” Gundlach
sought about $500 million.  “We’re pleased that an agreement has been reached and that
matter is now behind us,” Peter Viles, a TCW spokesman, said.
“TCW is well positioned to continue the strong momentum and
growth it has established over the past two years.”  The case is Trust Co. of the West v. Gundlach, BC429385,
California Superior Court, Los Angeles County (Los Angeles).  For more, click here.  Deutsche Telekom, Magyar Unit Settle Bribery Case With U.S.  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) , Europe’s biggest phone company, and
its Magyar Telekom unit will pay $95 million to settle
allegations they violated the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.  Magyar Telekom, based in Budapest, will disgorge $31.2
million and pay a $59.6 million criminal penalty as part of a
deferred prosecution agreement with the U.S. Justice Department,
according to a statement yesterday by the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission. The Bonn-based parent company will pay
$4.36 million as part of a DOJ non-prosecution agreement, the
SEC said. Both companies settled a civil suit filed yesterday
with the SEC.  “Magyar Telekom’s senior executives used sham contracts to
funnel millions of dollars in corrupt payments to foreign
officials who could help them keep competitors out and win
business,” Kara Novaco Brockmeyer, chief of the SEC Enforcement
Division’s FCPA Unit, said in the release.  The SEC filed separate lawsuits in federal court in
Manhattan against the companies and three former executives of
Magyar Telekom. The defendants are former Chief Executive
Officer Elek Straub, former Director of Central Strategic
Organization Andras Balogh and former Director of Business
Development and Acquisitions in the Central Strategic
Organization Tamas Morvai.  “Deutsche Telekom has not been accused of violating the
ban on bribery,” the company said in an e-mailed statement
forwarded by spokeswoman Elpida Trizi. “The settlement
terminates the investigations against Deutsche Telekom without a
criminal charge.”  “The final settlements recognize the DOJ’s and the SEC’s
consideration of the company’s self-reporting, thorough internal
investigation, remediation and cooperation with the DOJ’s and
the SEC’s investigations,” Magyar Telekom said in a statement.  Lawyers for the three former executives couldn’t
immediately be reached for comment about the lawsuit. All three
are Hungarian citizens believed to be residing in that country,
according to the complaint.  The cases are U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission v.
Magyar Telekom Plc, 11-cv-9646, and U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission v. Straub, 11-cv-9645, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of  New York  (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  ‘Ghost Rider’ Belongs to Marvel, Not Creator, U.S. Judge Says  Walt Disney Co.’s (DIS)  Marvel Entertainment won a second
challenge over the ownership of its comic book characters, with
a New York judge dismissing claims from the creator of  “Ghost
Rider”  of copyright infringement.  U.S. District Judge Katherine Forrest in Manhattan ruled
Dec. 28 that Gary Friedrich, who conceived and wrote the 1972
story of the motorcycle-riding character with a blazing skull
for a head, signed over all rights to the character to Marvel in
1971 and again in 1978.  “Either of those contractual transfers would be sufficient
to resolve the question of ownership,” Forrest wrote.
“Together, they provide redundancy to the answer that leaves no
doubt as to its correctness.”  Copyright challenges to Marvel characters from their
creators have threatened to undermine Marvel’s movie projects
based on those creations. “Ghost Rider,” a 2007 film starring
Nicolas Cage, grossed $115.8 million in the U.S. and Canada,
according to researcher  Box Office Mojo . A sequel is scheduled
to be released next year.  In July, U.S. District Judge  Colleen McMahon  in Manhattan
dismissed an ownership claim to the Incredible Hulk and X-Men by
the heirs of Jack Kirby, the superheroes’ co-creator.  Kirby, who died in 1994, also created or co-created the
Fantastic Four and the Avengers. His heirs said their father was
a freelance artist paid by the page who received no benefits
from Marvel. Stan Lee, who worked for Marvel as an editor, is
credited as co-author of the Hulk.  McMahon said Kirby’s creations were works-for-hire and as
such belonged to Marvel.  Forrest, in her ruling, said she didn’t need to determine
whether the Ghost Rider was a work-for-hire because it was clear
Friedrich granted Marvel the rights to the character in his
contracts.  The case is Gary Friedrich Enterprises v. Marvel
Enterprises, 08-cv-01533, U.S. District Court, Southern District
of New York (Manhattan).  California Barred by Judge From Cutting Hospital Medi-Cal Rates  California can’t cut reimbursements hospitals receive for
the skilled-nursing services they provide to low-income people,
a federal judge ruled.  U.S. District Judge Christina Snyder in Los Angeles granted
Dec. 28 the request from the California Hospital Association for
an order to stop California from imposing the reductions, saying
the hospitals had met their burden of showing irreparable harm
if she didn’t halt the cuts temporarily.  “The state’s fiscal crisis does not outweigh the serious
irreparable injury the plaintiffs would suffer absent the
issuance of an injunction,” the judge said in her ruling.  The hospital group said in a Nov. 1 complaint that the cuts
of more than 20 percent would resurrect previous reductions that
the courts have found to be in violation of the federal Medicaid
Act. The reductions would threaten the ability of many hospitals
to operate skilled nursing units, the group said.  The California Department of Health Care Services said Oct.
27 that the federal Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services
approved the state’s proposal to reduce Medi-Cal reimbursement
rates. The cuts are part of state’s 2011-12 budget and would
save $623 million, according to the Oct. 27 statement.  Norman Williams, a spokesman for the state’s Health Care
Services Department, said Dec. 28 in an e-mail that the state
“strongly disagrees with the ruling” and will appeal it.  The case is California Hospital Association v. Douglas,
11-09078, U.S. District Court, Central District of California
(Los Angeles).  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  New Suits  JPMorgan, Ally Sued by HSH Nordbank Over Mortgage Bond Losses  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the biggest U.S. bank by assets, and
 Ally Financial Inc (ALLY) . were among the financial institutions blamed
by the German lender HSH Nordbank AG in lawsuits over losses on
about $293 million in mortgage bonds.  Offering documents for the securities contained “material
misrepresentations and omissions” about the loans backing the
securities, HSH Nordbank said in summonses filed yesterday in
New York State Supreme Court.  Wrongdoing by JPMorgan, Ally and other defendants named in
three separate cases “led directly” to losses on the
securities, HSH Nordbank said.  Barclays Capital Inc. (BARC)  and Credit
Suisse Securities (USA) were also among those sued for their
roles in different offerings, according to court papers.  HSH Nordbank also claims that offering materials contained
misrepresentations about the legal validity of assignments of
loans to mortgage-securitization trusts and the rights of the
trusts to receive interest and principal payments on the loans,
which are used to pay investors.  In one case, HSH Nordbank, based in Hamburg, is suing over
$130 million in mortgage securities. Another covers about $117
million in bonds, and a third concerns $46 million, according to
court papers.  Gina Proia, a spokeswoman for Detroit-based Ally, declined
to immediately comment on the lawsuit. Steven Vames, a  Credit
Suisse (CS)  spokesman, declined to comment. Representatives for
Barclays and JPMorgan didn’t respond yesterday to e-mails
seeking comment.  The case is HSH Nordbank AG v. Ally Financial, 653651-2011,
New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  Elevator Firm in Fatal N.Y. Accident Sued Over Plaza Injury  Transel Elevator Inc. , which two weeks ago was servicing an
elevator hours before it killed a Manhattan advertising firm
employee, was sued this week over an accident at New York’s
Plaza hotel, the latest in a series of similar suits filed
against the company.  Cecilia Xirouhakis, a Plaza housekeeper, was injured when a
freight elevator she was in last year rapidly descended and came
to “a sudden and violent stop,” according to a complaint filed
Dec. 27 in New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan. Her
lawyers said in the filing that Transel maintained and repaired
the freight elevators at the Plaza.  On Dec. 14, New York-based Transel performed electrical
maintenance on an elevator at 285 Madison Avenue. Later that
day, it malfunctioned and killed Suzanne Hart, according to the
New York City Buildings Department. Hart, 41, had stepped on to
the elevator in the lobby en route to her office at Y&R, the
Manhattan-based advertising agency formerly known as Young &
Rubicam. The car shot up, pinning her between the elevator and
the wall, police said.  An investigation into the accident by the New York City
Department of Buildings is continuing, Tony Sclafani, a
spokesman for the department, said. The department is also
inspecting elevators in the city serviced by Transel, Sclafani
said.  This week’s lawsuit by Xirouhakis is one of several
elevator-injury claims filed in New York during the past few
years against Transel. The company specializes in construction,
repair and maintenance of residential and commercial elevator
systems, according to its website.  A spokesman for Transel didn’t return a call seeking
comment on the lawsuits. Transel and other defendants in the
Plaza lawsuit have yet to file answers to the complaint in that
case.  Daniel Friedman, an attorney at the law firm representing
Xirouhakis, a New Jersey resident, said the sudden stop of the
Plaza’s freight elevator was so severe she fractured bones in
one of her feet.  The case is Cecilia Xirouhakis v. El-Ad Properties NY LLC,
11-114486, New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  SK Holdings Vice Chairman Chey Arrested in Embezzlement Case  SK Holdings Co. (003600)  Vice Chairman Chey Jae Won, the second-
ranking executive at South Korea’s third-largest industrial
group, was arrested yesterday on suspicion he embezzled money
from company affiliates.  The Seoul Central District Court issued an arrest warrant
as there was a risk Chey would destroy evidence, Cho Won Kyung,
a judge and spokeswoman at the court, said by phone. Chey’s
arrest was also broadcast on local television. SK declined to
comment in an e-mailed response to Bloomberg News.  Chey, 48, the second son of SK Group founder Chey Jong
Hyon, is accused of misappropriating 100 billion won ($87
million) from SK affiliates to make up for futures investment
losses incurred by his elder brother and SK Holdings Chairman
Chey Tae Won, Yonhap reported. The elder Chey was also summoned
by prosecutors on Dec. 19.  The chairman hasn’t used any company money inappropriately
and will prove his innocence, the group said in an e-mailed
response to questions from Bloomberg on Nov. 8. The government
of President  Lee Myung Bak  pardoned Chey Tae Won in 2008 of a
fraud conviction that had earned him a suspended three-year
prison term.  “If this is finished at the vice-chairman level, Chairman
Chey can stay in management, which means ongoing M&As and
businesses will not be affected much,” said Im Jeong Jae, a
Seoul-based fund manager at Shinhan BNP Paribas Asset Management
Co., which oversees about $28 billion.  For more, click here.  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Former HP CEO Hurd Tried to Cajole Fisher Into Sex, Letter Says  Former  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  Chief Executive Officer Mark
Hurd tried to persuade Jodie Fisher to have sex and kissed and
touched her inappropriately while she was a company events
contractor, according to a much-contested letter that was
ordered to be released by a court yesterday.  During dinners, hotel-room visits and other meetings in
cities such as Los Angeles, Atlanta, St. Louis and Madrid
between 2007 and 2009, Hurd kissed and embraced Fisher, brushed
his hand against her breast and attempted to initiate an affair,
according to the letter sent to Hurd on June 24, 2010, by
Fisher’s lawyer, Gloria Allred. Hurd, who is now a president at
 Oracle Corp. (ORCL) , wasn’t found to have committed sexual harassment
by Hewlett-Packard, and Fisher herself later said the document
contained inaccuracies.  “You had designs to make her your lover from the onset
using your status and authority as CEO of HP,” Allred said in
the letter to Hurd, the contents of which were first reported by
Bloomberg News. “At times you would behave professionally
seemingly ‘getting’ that she was not going to have sex with you.
At other times, not, and you would relentlessly attempt to
cajole her into having sex with you.”  The letter, which sought a settlement for sexual
harassment, was obtained after a ruling by the Delaware Supreme
Court that it should be unsealed as part of the evidence in a
shareholder lawsuit against the Palo Alto, California-based
company. Hurd’s relationship with Fisher led to his resignation
as CEO on Aug. 6, 2010, after a company investigation found he
had violated its standards of business conduct. Hurd settled
with Fisher the week he resigned.  Allred and Michael Thacker, a Hewlett-Packard spokesman,
declined to comment.  In settling with Hurd last year, Fisher and Allred said
there was no romantic or sexual affair between the two. Hewlett-
Packard’s investigation found that he didn’t violate the sexual-
harassment policy.  Fisher told Hurd in a 2010 letter, also obtained by
Bloomberg News, that the Allred document had “many inaccuracies
in the details” and that the CEO’s behavior didn’t hurt
Hewlett-Packard or its reputation.  The Allred “letter was recanted by Ms. Fisher,” said Ken
Glueck, a senior vice president for Redwood City, California-
based Oracle. “She admitted it was full of inaccuracies.”  Hewlett-Packard  shareholder (HPQ)  Ernesto Espinoza sought the
letter, along with company books and records, in a suit aimed at
investigating possible corporate wrongdoing in conjunction with
the payment of Hurd’s severance package of as much as $40
million, according to court papers.  For more, click here.  Rakoff Orders SEC, Citigroup to Alert Him of Appeals Filings  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission must notify U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff of any
filings they make with the appeals court in Manhattan in a
lawsuit between the parties, he said.  Rakoff issued an order yesterday in which he laid out the
history of the litigation since his refusal last month to
approve an accord resolving claims that New York-based Citigroup
misled investors in a $1 billion financial product linked to
risky mortgages. The parties didn’t allow him time to rule on a
request to halt the litigation during an appeal of that order,
he said. They went to the appeals court and obtained a stay
before he issued his own decision Dec. 27.  “The parties are hereby ordered to promptly notify this
court of any filings in the Court of Appeals by faxing copies of
any such filings to this court immediately after they are filed
in the Court of Appeals,” Rakoff wrote.  Because of the federal appeals court’s ruling, the suit
will remain on hold while the higher court considers whether to
review Rakoff’s rejection of a $285 million settlement in the
case. The appeals court agreed to the SEC’s request to delay the
case until at least Jan. 17. The agency said halting the case
was necessary because Rakoff told Citigroup to respond to the
SEC’s complaint next week.  The court said the SEC’s request to stay the case in the
lower court and to expedite the appeal will be submitted to a
motions panel of the court Jan. 17. The case will be kept on
hold until the panel decides whether to grant the requests, the
court said in a two-sentence order.  Danielle Romero-Apsilos, a Citigroup spokeswoman, declined
to comment on Rakoff’s order. John Nester, an SEC spokesman,
said in an e-mailed statement that “we will respond as
appropriate in the proceedings before the court of appeals.”  Rakoff said yesterday that his Dec. 27 order denying a
request from the SEC that he halt the case during the appeal was
issued one minute after the Court of Appeals granted the SEC’s
request.  He said the SEC filed its emergency motion with the appeals
court without notifying him and without telling the higher court
that his decision was imminent.  By not telling him of the emergency motion, Citigroup and
the SEC “held back from this court material information it
needed to do its job,” Rakoff said.  He said one reason for his order yesterday was to apprise
the appeals court of what had transpired “and to attempt to
prevent similar recurrences.”  The case is U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission v.
Citigroup Global Markets Inc., 11-05227, U.S. Court of Appeals
for the Second Circuit (New York). The district court case is
11-cv-7387, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Zell Company Seeks to Intervene in Lehman’s Archstone Case  An affiliate of Sam Zell’s  Equity Residential (EQR)  told a judge
it urgently needed to intervene in court proceedings over  Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) ’s Archstone to protect its right to buy
half of a stake in the real estate company held by  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC)  and Barclays Plc.  The Equity Residential affiliate this month got a 30-day
right to set the price for the second 26.5 percent of the banks’
stake, according to a court filing yesterday in New York. Lehman
said in a lawsuit it is entitled to take over that right without
compensating the Zell company, the Equity Residential affiliate,
ERP, said in the filing.  “ERP seeks to intervene in this action to protect
contractual rights it holds that are directly threatened by the
relief Lehman is seeking,” it said.  ERP said it is entitled to a so-called breakup free if
Lehman buys the bank’s whole 53 percent stake.  Bankrupt Lehman told the banks it would buy the first half
of their Archstone stake for about $1.3 billion, exercising a
right to do so after Zell made an offer for that piece of their
stake. That left Zell with an option on the second piece of the
banks’ stake.  Lehman also sued the banks for breach of contract, saying
they colluded to sell a stake to Zell’s company, Archstone’s
“largest competitor,” and failed to inform Lehman about all
the terms of the deal. Lehman currently owns 47 percent of
Archstone.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge James Peck scheduled hearings on the
dispute for January.  Archstone, which Lehman acquired in a $22 billion leveraged
buyout with Tishman Speyer Properties LP, has ownership
interests in hundreds of apartment developments from Washington
and New York to  San Francisco .  Lehman is seeking to sell Archstone, its biggest real-
estate asset, for $6 billion to help pay creditors with claims
of about $370 billion, and to do that must gain control of the
company, according to a person familiar with the plan.  Kimberly Macleod, a Lehman spokeswoman, declined to comment
on yesterday’s filing.  The case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan). The complaint is Archstone LB Syndication Partner
LLC v. Banc of America Strategic Venture Inc. (In re Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.), 11-02928, U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
Southern District New York (Manhattan).  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Trials/Appeals  Surveillance Law Upheld While Lawsuits Allowed to Proceed  The U.S. government’s decision to shield telecommunications
companies from lawsuits alleging an anti-terrorism surveillance
program violated consumers’ privacy rights was upheld by a
federal appeals court.  The U.S. Court of Appeals in San Francisco ruled yesterday
that an amendment to the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act,
or FISA, granting immunity from lawsuits to  AT&T Inc. (T)  and other
companies doesn’t violate constitutional due process rights of
citizens who sued carriers whom they alleged assisted the
government in illegal wiretapping.  While they can’t sue telephone companies, phone customers
can proceed with lawsuits against the government over the
warrantless surveillance program, the court said, reversing a
federal judge who dismissed lawsuits challenging what the
plaintiffs allege is a “communications dragnet of ordinary
American citizens.” The lower-court judge had ruled that the
alleged spying wasn’t shown to be sufficiently linked to the
plaintiffs.  The appeals court disagreed, ruling that the phone
customers’ “allegations are highly specific and lay out
concrete harms arising from the warrantless searches.”  More than 40 lawsuits seeking billions of dollars in
damages were filed in 2006 against phone companies alleging they
helped the government wiretap suspected terrorists without court
approval. Congress passed a measure in 2008 granting phone
companies immunity from the lawsuits if the U.S. Attorney
General certified that they assisted the government pursuant to
a special court order or other criteria.  Other lawsuits by telephone customers targeted the
government rather than the telecommunications companies. The
appeals court sent those cases back to district court with
instructions to consider whether they are barred because they
could reveal “state secrets” and damage national security.  The first case is Hepting v. AT&T, 07-17132, U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Ninth Circuit (San Francisco). The second case
is Jewel v. National Security Agency, 10-15616, U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Ninth Circuit.  Celestica Shareholder Lawsuit Reinstated by Appeals Court  Celestica Inc. (CLS) , a Canadian electronics manufacturer, must
face shareholder claims that it misled them about the costs of a
corporate restructuring, a U.S. appeals court ruled.  The U.S. Court of Appeals in New York yesterday reversed a
lower-court’s dismissal of the fraud lawsuit. Celestica
investors, represented by a group of union pension funds, sued
the company and its former chief executive officer, Stephen
Delaney, and former chief financial officer, Anthony Puppi, in
2007.  The three-judge appeals court panel ruled that the
shareholders alleged sufficient facts to support the defendants’
scienter, or knowledge that they knew they were misstating
Celestica’s earnings and financial prospects.  “The particular allegations that Delaney and Puppi were
specifically informed, and had reason to know, of the growing
inventory stockpile in Celestica’s Mexican and American
facilities are sufficient to establish the individual
defendants’ scienter,” the panel said in the ruling.
“Moreover, those allegations are sufficient to establish
corporate scienter on behalf of Celestica.”  Celestica representatives didn’t immediately return a
voice-mail message to its media contact line seeking comment on
yesterday’s ruling.  The case is New Orleans Employees Retirement System v.
Celestica Inc., 10-4702, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second
Circuit (Manhattan).  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 