-- Dollar Share of Currency Reserves Climbs, Euro at Three-Year Low
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n   a n d   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2011-12-30T18:17:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-30/dollar-share-of-currency-reserves-climbs-euro-at-three-year-low.html
The U.S. dollar’s share of global
foreign-exchange reserves climbed in the third quarter to the
highest since late 2010, while holdings of euros declined to a
three-year low,  International Monetary Fund  data show.  The U.S. currency’s portion rose to 61.7 percent in the
period ended Sept. 30, the highest since the last three months
of 2010, from 60.3 percent in the prior quarter, according to
figures from the Washington-based IMF quarterly data. The share
of euros fell to 25.7 percent, the lowest since the period of
July through September in 2008.  The 17-nation currency is headed for its first back-to-back
annual decreases versus the dollar in a decade. Two years of
summits have failed to contain a European debt crisis, making
the U.S. dollar more attractive as a reserve currency.  “The dollar right now is the only game in town,” Boris Schlossberg, director of research at online currency trader GFT
Forex in  New York , said in a telephone interview. “The euro,
which looked like an alternative, is under so much stress right
now nobody in the market is considering it a viable reserve
choice for the time being.”  The share of “other currencies,” which excludes reserve
holdings of U.S. dollars, euros, British pounds, Japanese yen
and Swiss francs, decreased to 4.8 percent from 4.9 percent in
the previous quarter, IMF  data  showed.  The pound’s share fell to 3.9 percent from 4.1 percent,
while the yen’s portion held at 3.8 percent, according to the
IMF data. Swiss francs also held, at 0.l percent. The overall
level of reserves climbed 0.9 percent to a record high of $10.18
trillion, the data showed.  The IMF calculated the dollar’s share based on data from
central banks that report their currency allocations. Some
countries, including  China , the world’s largest reserve holder,
don’t give currency breakdowns.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net ;
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  