-- Medvedev Orders Probe of Nuclear Sub Fire
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2011-12-30T11:00:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-30/medvedev-orders-probe-of-nuclear-submarine-fire-that-hurt-nine.html
Russia  is probing the cause of a
fire on a nuclear submarine in a dockyard near the border with
 Norway , the worst incident since 20 people died aboard a vessel
during trials in the  Pacific Ocean  three years ago.  President  Dmitry Medvedev , who plans to earmark 20 trillion
rubles ($620 billion) on defense spending through 2020, ordered
two deputy prime ministers, Igor Sechin and  Dmitry Rogozin , to
conduct a thorough investigation and take “all necessary
measures” to repair the vessel, according to an order published
on the Kremlin website today.  The fire that started yesterday on the Yekaterinburg in the
Murmansk region on the  Barents Sea  has been “mostly
extinguished,” Russia’s Investigative Committee  said  in a
statement after the Foreign Ministry said the blaze had been put
out. “There are still individual flashpoints that pose
absolutely no danger,” the committee said.  Seven military officers and two rescue workers from the
Emergency Ministry were hospitalized after inhaling smoke in the
blaze, the Investigative Committee said. None were seriously
injured, and two have already been released.  The  Defense Ministry  said some staff remained on board to
monitor the situation. The submarine’s nuclear reactor was shut
off during the repair work and there has been no sign of
abnormal radioactivity aboard or in the surrounding region, the
ministry said in a  statement  on its website.  Investigators opened a criminal probe on charges of
damaging military property through carelessness, according to
the statement. Detectives have already interviewed 50 witnesses.  The submarine was built in the early 1980s and became
operational in December 1985, state television broadcaster
Rossiya 24 reported. It was revamped and modernized in 2003.  Delays, Overrruns  Russia’s defense industry has suffered from delays in
delivery of equipment and cost overruns, prompting the Defense
Ministry to look for weapons in countries such as  France .
Rogozin, Russia’s former ambassador to the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization who was appointed last week as the deputy premier
in charge of the military, pledged to be “tough” in reviving
the industry and “root out any attempts at corruption with an
iron hand.”  The accident is one of several aboard Russian nuclear
submarines in the past decade. Twenty people died on a vessel
when a faulty firefighting system was accidentally activated
during trials in the Sea of  Japan  in 2008. The Kursk sank in
August 2000 after an onboard explosion in the Barents Sea,
killing all 118 on board including 23 who survived the initial
blast. A September 2006 fire on the Svyatoi Daniil Moskovskiy
killed two crew members.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  