-- Legendary Entertainment’s China Film Venture Hampered by Delay in Funding
-- B y   R o b   G o l u m
-- 2011-12-30T18:41:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-30/legendary-entertainment-s-china-film-venture-hampered-by-delay-in-funding.html
Legendary Entertainment , the film
production company behind “Inception” and “Hangover,” will
be unable to complete a $220.5 million fundraising for a Hong
Kong movie venture through  Paul Y. Engineering Group Ltd. (577)   Efforts to raise the funds were “not sufficient to
complete the placing,” making it unlikely the deal will close
before a Dec. 31 expiration, Paul Y. Engineering said in a
regulatory filing yesterday. The parties will discuss ways to
revive the project in 2012, according to the filing.  “The goal is to relaunch a placing exercise in 2012,”
Melissa Zukerman, an outside spokeswoman for Legendary, said in
an e-mailed statement. “Legendary East will issue a formal
announcement when the new structure and transaction are
solidified.”  The companies planned to make one or two major films a year
for worldwide audiences, according to an August statement. The
venture was to be 40 percent owned by Legendary and Legendary
East management, 50 percent by Paul Y. and 9.9 percent by Huayi
Brothers International Ltd. Paul Y. planned to fund its stake in
Legendary East through share sales.  Foreign box-office receipts for U.S. film studios rose 20
percent in the third quarter to $6.53 billion, bucking the
decline in revenue and ticket sales in the U.S. and Canadian
theaters, according to Bloomberg Industries research.  Relativity Media LLC announced plans in August to make and
distribute films with Huaxia Film Distribution Co., one of
 China ’s largest studios.  DreamWorks Animation SKG Inc. (DWA)  is also
considering expansion opportunities in China.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Golum in  Los Angeles  at 
 rgolum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  