-- Henry Returns to Arsenal on Two-Month Loan as Cover for Gervinho, Chamakh
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2011-12-30T11:22:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-30/henry-to-return-to-arsenal-once-paperwork-completed-wenger-says.html
Thierry Henry will return to Arsenal
for a two-month loan period if the Gunners can reach an
insurance agreement with his U.S. soccer team, manager  Arsene Wenger  said today.  Henry scored a club record 226 goals for Arsenal before
leaving for Barcelona in 2007. He’d rejoin the club from Major
League Soccer’s New York Red Bulls as cover for strikers
Marouane Chamakh and Gervinho, who depart for the African Cup
of Nations next month.  “I know one thing, it can only be positive because he is
an exceptional talent and has a desire to help the club,”
Wenger said during a televised news conference, adding that
“all the paperwork is not done.”  Henry, 34, would join an Arsenal team battling for a top-
four Premier League finish and a berth in the  Champions League ,
European soccer’s elite club competition. The Gunners are
currently in fifth place, one point behind Chelsea.  Speculation over the possible return of Henry, who became
an icon for Arsenal supporters after helping the team win two
league championships, has gathered pace since he started working
out with his former club after the MLS season ended in November.
The new U.S. campaign begins in March.  Wenger said Henry requires “two good weeks’ work” before
he could be considered for selection.  “He is still class and quality,” Wenger, who bought Henry
to the U.K. from  Italy ’s Juventus in 1999, said. “I don’t worry
about him at all.”  Since Henry’s departure, the top striker’s role has been
taken on by  Robin van Persie . The Netherlands national team
player is two goals short of breaking the Premier League record
of 36 in a calendar year heading into tomorrow’s home game
against Queens Park Rangers.  “When they play together they will do very well,” Wenger
said. “It is two good players who can get the ball and score so
why shouldn’t they work well together?”  Henry was third in scoring in MLS last season with 16
goals.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tariq Panja in  London  at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  