-- EPA Cross-State Emissions Rule Put on Hold by Court
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g ,   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d   a n d   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n
-- 2012-01-04T22:51:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-30/epa-cross-state-emissions-rule-delayed-by-court-in-victory-for-producers.html
(Corrects judge’s name in third paragraph of story
published Dec. 30.)  The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency must delay implementing rules on interstate air pollution
on Jan. 1, a federal court ruled, siding with electric power
producers seeking to defeat the new regulations.  A three-judge panel of the U.S. Appeals Court in  Washington 
today granted a request by electric power producers and other
challengers to delay the deadline for plants in 27 states to
begin reducing emissions of sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxide
while the court considers the rule’s legality.  “Petitioners have satisfied the standards required for a
stay pending court review,” Judges Brett Kavanaugh, Thomas Griffith and Judith Rogers said in the brief ruling.  More than three dozen lawsuits in the Washington court seek
to derail the EPA’s Cross-State Air Pollution Rule, which was
issued in July and revised in October. The court hasn’t
scheduled a date for argument, though today’s order suggested
the judges would hear the case by April.  Southern Co. (SO) , EME Homer City Generation LP, a unit of
 Edison International (EIX) , and  Energy Future Holdings Corp (TXU) . units in
Texas are among the power companies challenging the rule. The
 state of Texas (STOTX1) , the National Mining Association and the
International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers joined in
parallel cases, saying the rule puts an undue financial burden
on power producers and threatens electricity reliability by
forcing companies to shut some older plants.  ‘Not a Decision’  “The court’s decision is not a decision on the merits of
the rule and EPA firmly believes that when the court does weigh
the merits of the rule it will ultimately be upheld,” Betsaida
Alcantara, an EPA spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  The EPA rules, which apply to  Texas  and 26 eastern states,
impose caps on sulfur dioxide, which can lead to acid rain and
soot harmful to humans and ecosystems, and nitrogen oxide, a
component of ground-level ozone and a main ingredient of smog.
The rule applies to emissions that cross state lines.  Power companies, state officials and lawmakers said the EPA
provided too little time to comply, and argued in court that the
October revisions should invalidate the entire rule.  Luminant Generation Co., an Energy Future Holdings Corp.
unit, claims the measure will force it to eliminate at least 500
jobs.  ‘Irreparable Harm’  “We are pleased with the court’s ruling because it
recognizes the irreparable harm that would have resulted from
the short six-month timeline for compliance outlined in the
original rule,”  David Campbell , Luminant’s chief executive
officer, said in a statement.  Scott Segal , a lobbyist at Bracewell & Giuliani LLC in
Washington, representing operators of coal-fired plants such as
Southern Co., said postponement of regulations are allowed when
there is “a strong chance of success” the challenge will
succeed and when the parties can be injured without such relief.  “Stays are hard to come by in the world of Clean Air Act
litigation, which makes the stay of the cross-state rule all the
more significant,” Segal said in an e-mail.  The power companies’ effort is opposed by the  Natural
Resources Defense Council , power companies such as Chicago-based
 Exelon Corp. (EXC)  and states such as  New York  and  Illinois .  “Today’s judicial decision temporarily halts
implementation of life-saving clean air protections for 240
million Americans pending full review of the facts and the
law,” Vickie Patton, general counsel of the Environmental
Defense Fund, said in an e-mailed statement. “Several years
ago, this same court similarly halted EPA’s first interstate air
pollution protection program and then affirmed EPA’s action
after a complete review of the facts and law.”  ‘Wouldn’t Be Surprised’  It is highly unlikely that the cross-states rules will take
effect in 2012, even if the EPA ends up winning the court case,
Henry Eisenberg, counsel with the environmental department of
 Skadden Arps Slate Meagher & Flom LLP (1112L) , said in a phone
interview.  “I wouldn’t be surprised if EPA set the clock back,”
Eisenberg said.  The stay “suggests clearly that the petitioners have
brought issues that are likely to be decided in their favor,”
Christine Tezak, senior policy analyst with Robert W. Baird &
Co. Inc., said in a phone interview. Therefore, the rule, “as
written, likely won’t ever go into effect,” she said.  Power Companies  Today’s ruling takes some of the pressure off of power
companies that rely heavily on coal-fired plants to rapidly
install pollution controls or switch to cleaner-burning fuels,
such as natural gas, Tezak said.  They’ll still need to invest over time in scrubbers,
baghouses and other technology to comply with new EPA curbs on
mercury and other airborne toxins, which were made final earlier
this month and will take effect in March 2015.  “What you’ll have for coal-fired utility owners is a
better opportunity to more rationally invest in their fleet,”
Tezak said.  The cross-state rule would help avoid an estimated 13,000
to 34,000 premature deaths annually by 2014 and reduce hospital
and emergency room visits by 19,000 a year, according to the
EPA.  Coal accounts for 98 percent of sulfur dioxide and 92
percent of nitrogen oxides released into the air by  power
plants , according to the EPA. Texas consumes more electricity
and uses more coal than any other state, according to the U.S.
Energy Information Administration.  The case is EME Homer City Generation LP v. U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency, 11-1302,  U.S. Court of Appeals 
for the  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net 
Julie Johnsson in Chicago at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 