-- EU Said to Prepare Draft Decision on NYSE-Deutsche Boerse Merger
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2011-12-30T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-30/eu-said-to-prepare-draft-decision-on-nyse-merger.html
European officials may distribute as
soon as next week a recommendation on  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1) ’s
planned takeover of NYSE Euronext, people familiar with the
discussions said.  The European Commission team examining the case indicated
at a meeting on Dec. 21 that they are likely to propose
prohibiting the deal, according to two people familiar with the
situation, who declined to be identified as the conversations
were private. The advice is non-binding.  NYSE and  Deutsche Boerse  have been trying to convince
European regulators that merging to create the world’s largest
exchange operator won’t stifle competition in derivatives and
clearing. Officials told the companies at last week’s meeting in
Brussels that concessions they offered didn’t go far enough to
allay their concerns, two people familiar with the talks said at
the time. The last day the commission can rule is Feb. 9.  The companies still have room to maneuver. Before deciding
whether to approve or block a deal, the European Commission must
consult competition agencies from the European Union’s 27 member
nations. Commissioners from each EU country must also vote on a
decision and companies can appeal a merger ban at the EU courts.
Companies, including Oracle Corp., have managed to complete
deals to which the European Commission had initial objections.  James Dunseath, a London-based spokesman for  NYSE Euronext (NYX) ,
and Joe Hennon, a spokesman for the European Commission,
declined to comment. Heiner Seidel, a spokesman for Deutsche
Boerse in  Frankfurt , didn’t immediately respond to requests for
comment.  U.S. Approval  U.S. regulators agreed on Dec. 22 to allow Frankfurt-based
Deutsche Boerse’s purchase of NYSE as long as the company sells
its 31.5 percent stake in another U.S. equity market, Direct
Edge Holdings LLC.  Scrutiny of the proposed acquisition has been greater in
 Europe , where the merger would unite the region’s two biggest
derivatives exchanges, NYSE’s Liffe and Deutsche Boerse’s Eurex.
In the U.S., trading in interest-rate, agricultural and
commodity futures is dominated by one company,  CME Group Inc. (CME) ,
after it merged with the Chicago Board of Trade in 2007 and the
 New York Mercantile Exchange  in 2008.  Cap Fees  European antitrust officials had previously indicated the
companies would have to divest an entire derivatives business
such as Liffe or Eurex, something the chief executive officers
of both exchanges they aren’t prepared to consider, according to
people familiar with the matter. Instead, NYSE and Deutsche
Boerse offered to cap fees on derivatives trading and clearing
for three years, sell the Liffe single-stock derivatives
business and license the Eurex trading system to a third party,
two people familiar said.  The takeover would put more than 90 percent of the region’s
exchange-traded derivatives market and about 30 percent of
European  stock trading  in the hands of one company. Eurex is the
region’s biggest derivatives exchange and Liffe is the second-
largest.  The European Commission broke for holidays on Dec. 23 and
returns Jan. 2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  