-- European Stocks Climb to Two-Month High, Paring Annual Retreat
-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 2011-12-30T17:09:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-30/european-stock-index-futures-climb-stoxx-600-may-pare-full-year-decline.html
European stocks (SXXP)  climbed to a two-
month high, paring the Stoxx Europe 600 Index’s first annual
decline in three years, as German Finance Minister  Wolfgang
Schaeuble  ruled out a euro-area breakup.  Banco Comercial Portugues SA added 3.8 percent on a report
that Chinese lenders may be interested in investing in
 Portugal ’s second-biggest publicly traded bank by market value.
 Hellenic Telecommunications Organization SA (HTO)  jumped 8.3 percent
after agreeing to sell a stake in a Serbian phone company.
Health-care stocks, this year’s best-performing industry group,
advanced as Elan Corp. rose 2.6 percent.  The  Stoxx 600 (SXXP)  gained 0.9 percent to 244.54 at the close of
trading, the highest level since Oct. 28. The gauge has still
retreated 11 percent this year, the first decline since 2008’s
46 percent plunge, as the euro region’s sovereign-debt crisis
spread from Greece to  Italy  and  Spain , driving yields on
government debt to records.  “We’ve had so much difficulty and a bad 2011,” said
Pierre Mouton, a  fund manager  who helps oversee $7.5 billion at
Notz Stucki & Cie. in Geneva. “There still are a lot of people
on the defensive. If the first two to three weeks of January are
good, a lot of people who aren’t too invested will start buying
stocks. I’m relatively optimistic.”  Post-Christmas trading has been slow, with daily  volume (SXXPVOLC)  on
the Stoxx 600 this week dipping to 32 percent of this year’s
average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  FTSE, DAX  National benchmark indexes advanced in all of the 17
western European markets open today, except Iceland. The U.K.’s
FTSE 100 rose 0.1 percent, trimming this year’s decline to 5.6
percent.  Germany ’s DAX gained 0.9 percent for an annual loss of
15 percent. Both gauges closed early for the New Year holiday.  “As traders say goodbye and probably good riddance to
2011, a year that saw most of the European and Asian indices
recording double-digit losses, traders may not be so welcoming
to 2012 either,” Jonathan Sudaria, a trader at London Capital
Group, wrote in e-mailed comments.  The Stoxx 600 gained 5.6 percent from the start of the year
to its peak on Feb. 17 before declining as concerns about the
debt crisis mounted. The index sank 26 percent from that high to
its low on Sept. 22, entering a  bear market . The gauge had its
worst third  quarter (SXXP)  since 2002, dropping 17 percent, as U.S.
leaders wrangled over deficit cuts and European policy makers
struggled to contain the debt crisis.  Bailout Fund  An Oct. 26 agreement to bolster the region’s bailout fund,
the European Financial Stability Facility, stalled as Germany
and  France  differed over how to tackle the crisis. France called
for using the  European Central Bank  as a backstop, while Germany
rejected it. Chancellor  Angela Merkel  listed using the ECB as
lender of last resort, issuing joint euro-area bonds and going
in for a “snappy debt cut” as unworkable proposals.  New governments took charge in  Greece  and Italy last month,
raising optimism that the region’s two most-indebted nations
will implement austerity measures. Greek Prime Minister  Lucas
Papademos  won approval for the final 2012 budget designed to
regain the confidence of creditors and secure resumption of
international financing.  The Stoxx 600 has rallied 14 percent from this year’s low
amid better-than-estimated U.S. economic data and optimism that
euro-area policy makers will contain the debt crisis.  Banks had the biggest drop among 19  industry groups (SXXP)  this
year, sliding 32 percent, on growing concern that the fiscal
crisis will force at least one nation to default on its debt.
Health-care and food stocks advanced as investors sought
companies whose earnings are less tied to economic growth.  Maintain Confidence  The decline in European equities compares with an 17
percent tumble in the MSCI Asia Pacific Index and a 0.3 percent
gain in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of U.S. shares as of
12:05 p.m. in  New York .  Schaeuble ruled out a euro-area breakup and said the region
is doing everything to maintain confidence in the euro,
according to an interview with Germany’s Handelsblatt.  Luxembourg’s  Jean-Claude Juncker , who leads the group of
euro-area finance ministers, said economic growth in the euro
region “isn’t good” and the world economy is growing only in
some Asian and African countries.  “This means that in 2012 we have to be prepared for the
situation to become more foggy, to say it in a friendly way,”
Juncker said today on RTL Luxembourg radio.  Spanish Cuts  Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  will cut spending by
8.9 billion euros ($11.5 billion) in the first quarter and raise
taxes, the first steps in a plan to slash a  budget deficit  that
will breach the target for this year. The new government was
forced to seek 6 billion euros from higher taxes on income,
savings and above-average-value homes after inheriting a deficit
of 8 percent of gross domestic product, spokeswoman Soraya Saenz
de Santamaria said.  Banco Comercial Portugues (BCP)  jumped 3.8 percent to 13.6 euro
cents, the highest in a month, as Lusa reported that Chinese
banks may be interested in investing in the company. The  news
agency  cited Cao Guangjing, chairman of China Three Gorges Corp.  China’s economic growth is expected to be more than 9
percent this year, the official Xinhua News Agency said in a New
Year’s editorial today.  Hellenic Telecommunications rallied 8.3 percent to 2.88
euros. Telekom Srbija and OTE signed an agreement in Athens for
the Greek company to sell a 20 percent stake in the Serb
national fixed-line and mobile-service provider back to Telekom
Srbija. The value of the transaction is 380 million euros,
Telekom Srbija said.  Elan, Actelion  Elan rose 2.6 percent to 10.72 euros, the highest since
July 2008. The Daily Mail newspaper attributed yesterday’s 2.2
percent gain to speculation Johnson & Johnson may be interested
in acquiring the company.  Actelion Ltd. (ATLN) , a Swiss drugmaker, added 1.4 percent to
32.25 francs. Health-care stocks climbed 0.8 percent as a group.  Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS)  gained 4.9 percent to 62 kroner as
the biggest wind-turbine maker received a 69-megawatt order for
a Swedish project and a 24-megawatt contract for France,
increasing hopes the company will meet its order guidance in
2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  