-- European Stocks Gain on U.S. Data, Optimism Debt Crisis Will Be Contained
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2011-12-31T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-30/european-stocks-climb-this-week-paring-first-annual-decline-since-2008.html
European (SXXP)  stocks climbed in the last
week of 2011 as U.S. data showed the recovery in the world’s
largest economy is gathering pace and optimism grew that euro-
area policy makers will contain the debt crisis.  Banco Comercial Portugues SA and Banco Espirito Santo SA,
 Portugal ’s largest lenders, jumped more than 15 percent after a
report that the government may recapitalize the banks without
becoming a shareholder. Britvic Plc led food and beverage
producers higher, extending this year’s gains for the  industry (SX3P) .  The benchmark Stoxx Europe 600 Index rose 1.1 percent to
244.54, the highest since Oct. 28. The second-straight week of
gains helped trim this year’s losses to 11 percent. The gauge
has rallied 14 percent from this year’s low on Sept. 22 as euro-
area leaders planned to channel central-bank loans through
 International Monetary Fund  to debt-ridden nations and the
 European (SXXP)  Central Bank took steps to ease a cash squeeze.  “There is a risk of losing sight that gradually progress
has been made,” said William De Vijlder, who oversees $778
billion as the global chief investment officer of Paris-based
BNP Paribas Investment Partners. “The ECB has eased its policy.
The firepower of the IMF is being increased.”  Reports this week showed business activity in the U.S.
expanded more than forecast and confidence among American
consumers rose in December to the highest level in eight months.  Dwindling Volumes  Post-Christmas trading was slow, with daily volume in the
Stoxx 600 this week dipping to 32 percent of this year’s
average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The  Stoxx 600 (SXXP)  gained 5.6 percent from the start of the year
to its peak on Feb. 17. From there, the index tumbled 26 percent
to its low on Sept. 22, entering a  bear market . The gauge had
its worst third quarter since 2002, dropping 17 percent, as U.S.
leaders wrangled over deficit cuts and European policy makers
remained divided on their response to the debt crisis.  An Oct. 26 agreement to bolster the region’s bailout fund,
the European Financial Stability Facility, stalled as  Germany 
and  France  differed over how tackle the crisis. France called
for using the ECB as a backstop, while Germany rejected it.
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  listed using the ECB as the lender of
last resort, issuing joint euro-area bonds and going in for a
“snappy debt cut” as unworkable proposals.  Lenders Lead Losses  Banks (SXXP)  had the biggest drop among 19 industry groups this
year, sinking 32 percent, amid growing concern that the fiscal
crisis will force at least one nation to default on its debt.
Health-care and food stocks advanced as investors sought
companies whose earnings are less tied to economic growth.  The decline in European equities compares with an 17
percent tumble in the MSCI Asia Pacific Index and a 0.4 percent
gain in the  S&P 500  at the close on Dec. 29.  Banco Comercial Portugues advanced 16 percent to a two-
month high. Chinese banks may be interested in investing in the
lender, news agency Lusa reported citing Cao Guangjing, chairman
of China Three Gorges Corp.  Banco Espirito Santo rose 15 percent. Portugal may
recapitalize the country’s banks without becoming a shareholder,
Jornal de Negocios reported, without saying where it got the
information. The state may subscribe contingent convertible
bonds sold by the banks, the newspaper said. So-called CoCos are
bonds that convert into equity if a bank’s capital drops below a
set level.  Britvic rallied 4.7 percent. Unilever climbed 1.6 percent.
Nestle SA added 1.5 percent.  Rio Tinto Group declined 1 percent, as copper slid on the
London Metal Exchange this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  