-- Exchange Mergers in Limbo as $37 Billion in Takeover Bids Fail to Complete
-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g ,   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r   a n d   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2011-12-30T19:24:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-30/exchange-mergers-in-limbo-as-37-billion-in-takeover-bids-fail-to-complete.html
The biggest wave of takeover offers
ever for publicly traded stock and derivatives exchanges has
done little for investors in 2011, as more than $21 billion of
equity value was erased and only one deal closed.   NYSE Euronext (NYX)  shares have fallen 13 percent in 2011 as
German stocks plunged and regulators in  Europe  resisted its
combination with  Deutsche Boerse AG. (DB1)   ASX Ltd. (ASX) , the Australian
market owner whose agreement with Singapore Exchange Ltd. fell
through in April, has  lost (BNWEXCH)  19 percent.  London Stock Exchange
Group (LSE)  Plc is down 5.2 percent after owners of Toronto Stock
Exchange operator  TMX Group Inc. (X)  spurned its offer in favor of
the bid from a group of Canadian banks and pensions.  Populist outcry, antitrust concern and some of the  most
volatile markets (SPX)  on record have prevented the completion of more
than $37 billion in announced transactions, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg on deals valued at $1 billion or more.
Foundering mergers leave exchanges with the same problems they
started with, including lower trading margins and diminishing
prospects for sales and profit growth.  “The next time any exchange announces any merger
whatsoever, I’m selling the stock instantaneously,”  Thomas Caldwell , Toronto-based chief executive officer of Caldwell
Securities Ltd., which oversees $1 billion, said in a telephone
interview. “Every single deal takes a minimum of one year of
dissecting, probing, prodding, X-rays and God knows what else.
And while you wait a year, stuff happens and it’s all bad.”  Russian Deal  Six proposed transactions involving public companies
totaling $37 billion failed to close in the past year, the most
for any 12-month period, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Russia’s Micex Exchange acquired RTS Stock Exchange on Dec. 19
for $1.5 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Exchanges completed $28.7 billion of deals in 2007 and 2008.  The 25-company Bloomberg World Exchanges Index  fell (BNWEXCH)  20
percent this year, twice the loss for the MSCI All-Country World
Index. The gauge of market operators has averaged gains of 35
percent a year between 2003 and 2010, falling only in 2008. The
measure advanced 0.1 percent at 11:05 a.m. in  London  today. More
than $21 billion was erased from the market value of exchanges
worldwide in 2011 as deals were delayed or blocked from Sydney
to Toronto and  New York , Bloomberg data show.  Deutsche Boerse  Decline  In the biggest merger, Frankfurt-based Deutsche Boerse has
seen the shares it’s offering for NYSE Euronext decline to $6.7
billion from $9.5 billion, after Germany’s DAX Index lost 20
percent and European Union regulators sought to curb the
combined company’s dominance in derivatives. NYSE Euronext added
1.5 percent on Dec. 22 after the  Justice Department  cleared the
deal.  U.S. approval left the merger in the hands of antitrust
authorities in Europe, where scrutiny has been greater because
it would unite the region’s two biggest derivatives exchanges,
NYSE’s Liffe and Deutsche Boerse’s Eurex. EU regulators have a
deadline of Feb. 9 to rule on the proposal.  The European Commission team examining the case indicated
at a meeting on Dec. 21 that they are likely to propose
prohibiting it, according to two people familiar with the
situation, who declined to be identified as the conversations
were private. The advice is non-binding. European officials may
distribute as soon as next week a recommendation, the people
said earlier today.  Regulators, Politicians  James Dunseath, a spokesman for  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  in London,
and Heiner Seidel, a spokesman for Deutsche Boerse in  Frankfurt ,
both declined to comment.  “In the 2011 climate, regulators and politicians weren’t
disposed to approve these mergers,”  Jamie Selway , head of
liquidity management at New York-based Investment Technology
Group Inc., said in a phone interview. “That surprised a lot of
people.”  Executives have embraced consolidation after the number of
U.S. and European  trading (MVOLUSE)  venues increased by about 50 in the
past decade, driving down  profitability (NYX) . NYSE Euronext revenue
per European equity trade has dropped 61 percent since 2007 to
64 cents, and in the U.S., the amount per 100 shares is
projected to fall 9.8 percent next year, according to Macquarie
Group Ltd.  Shrinking margins have left derivative venues as the
world’s largest exchange companies. Hong Kong Exchange &
Clearing Ltd., with a market value of $17.3 billion and a price-
earnings ratio of 25, is the biggest member of the Bloomberg
index, followed by CME Group Inc. at $16.4 billion, with a
multiple of 14.4. By  comparison (BNWEXCH) ,  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  is valued
at $4.4 billion and trades for 9.9 times earnings.  ‘Completely Commoditized’  “Trading is completely commoditized now,”  Bruce Weber ,
dean of the Lerner College of Business and Economics, who co-
wrote “The Equity Trader Course” with Robert Schwartz and
Deutsche Boerse CEO Reto Francioni in 2006, said in a telephone
interview. “The exchange business is no longer as attractive in
margin and growth as it was five years ago.”  Derivatives have been an  increasing share (NYX)  of NYSE
Euronext’s profits. Operating margins at its futures and options
businesses were 57 percent in the first three quarters of 2011,
compared with 40 percent for equities trading and listings,
according to NYSE Euronext.  Tokyo, Osaka  Tokyo Stock Exchange Group Inc. offered this year to merge
with Osaka Securities Exchange Co., whose derivatives platform
hosts Nikkei 225 Stock Average futures. NYSE Euronext’s deal
with Deutsche Boerse would push derivatives to 37 percent of the
combined company’s revenue, according to pro forma data for 2010
from the company. Stock trading and listings would shrink to 29
percent from 49 percent of NYSE Euronext’s net revenue for the
same year.  Even if the NYSE Euronext takeover collapses, exchange
companies will still keep trying to buy each other, according to
Macquarie’s  Ed Ditmire .  “The underlying rationale for consolidation in the
industry is still there,” Ditmire, a New York-based analyst
with Macquarie, said in a telephone interview. “For NYSE-DB,
for example, it’d be hard to imagine easily coming up with a new
product over the next decade that would deliver equal cost
synergies and bottom-line profit.”  While the profitability of trades is declining, exchanges
have so far found ways to keep earnings growing by expanding
into trading technology and related services.  Profits rose (BNWEXCH)  25
percent last year for companies in the exchange index. Analysts
forecast 2011 earnings will rise 25 percent, compared with 17
percent for the  S&P 500 ,  data (BNWEXCH)  compiled by Bloomberg show.  Quarterly Earnings  Every U.S. and European exchange matched or exceeded third-
quarter estimates, except Hellenic Exchanges SA, the operator of
the Greek bourse, Bloomberg data show. Nasdaq OMX’s 2012 profit
projections have  increased (NDAQ)  8.2 percent this year following
better-than-estimated results that Chief Executive Officer
Robert Greifeld attributed to “redefining what it means to
operate in each and every one of our businesses,” according to
a third-quarter conference call.  Earnings based on today’s business models aren’t
sustainable and companies will have to make acquisitions to stay
competitive, according to Tim Hoyle, director of research at
Radnor, Pennsylvania-based Haverford Trust, which manages $6
billion and owns NYSE Euronext shares.  “In the long run, it’s important that exchanges become
global players, and they do that with mergers,” he said in a
telephone interview. “That’s the trend.”  Nasdaq OMX  Nasdaq OMX shares have fallen 8.5 percent since the company
dropped its hostile bid for NYSE Euronext in May after the U.S.
Justice Department indicated it would block it. NYSE Euronext’s
shares have slumped 36 percent since then. Nasdaq OMX’s partner,
 IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE) , is up 2.5 percent.  Singapore Exchange’s $8.3 billion bid for Sydney-based ASX
was blocked in April after lawmakers rejected losing control of
the venue to foreigners. London Stock Exchange Group ended its
bid for TMX in June after failing to get enough shareholder
support for the $3.1 billion deal. That left Maple Group
Acquisition Corp., formed by Canadian banks and pensions to bid
against LSE, as the only suitor. Canada’s competition watchdog
has raised “serious concerns” about that deal.  Deutsche Boerse’s bid for NYSE Euronext may still result in
a restructuring of the industry and show whether regulators are
ever willing to clear the biggest cross-border mergers. The
combined entity would be the world’s largest exchange company,
according to the market capitalization of the two stocks.  “On a grand scale, people are watching to see how the
merger between the NYSE and Deutsche Boerse does,”  Richard Repetto , an analyst at Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP in New
York, said in a phone interview. “Momentum will either be
gained or lost in the consolidation arena based on what happens
there. If you don’t get that deal done, you will likely see
consolidation attempts subside.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net ;
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net ;
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  