-- Mexico’s Strengths Still Shine Through the Gloom: Enrique Krauze
-- B y   E n r i q u e   K r a u z e
-- 2011-12-30T00:01:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-30/mexico-s-strengths-still-peak-through-gloom-commentary-by-enrique-krauze.html
The news from  Mexico , in recent
years, has most often been bad. For a while, it was largely
reports of corruption, electoral fraud and economic crisis.
These days, it’s all about crime and insecurity.  The country hasn’t been given sufficient credit for the
good news it has generated since the 2000 elections broke the
71-year hegemony of a single party: the  Institutional
Revolutionary Party , better known as the PRI. Neither the
international press nor we Mexicans have fully acknowledged what
has been achieved or maintained. Still, Mexico’s dark image is
valid, up to a point, but it’s only a fragment of the truth.  Corruption in government, for instance, has by no means
disappeared. Yet in stark contrast to the long period of PRI
domination (1929-2000), it has greatly diminished at the federal
level, thanks to the 2002 Federal Law on Transparency and Access
to Public Information. Mexico is now a democracy, with a true
division of powers, full democratic freedoms and elections
supervised by an independent electoral institute.  The  economy (MXGCTOT)  also has shown notable advances. After serious
crises in 1976, 1982, 1988 and 1994, the country has learned its
lessons, demonstrated resilience and developed a civil service
that can maintain stability in the shifting world economy.  Deep Problems  Nonetheless, Mexico’s problems run deep and some seem
almost insoluble. And, for the time being, they will surely
continue to produce the kind of bad news that we have grown
accustomed to reading on the world’s front pages. It would be
absurd (and impossible) to ignore these dark areas, but in the
interest of truth -- and in keeping with the Christmas spirit --
it seems fair to list some of contemporary Mexico’s strengths.  Much of our planet is convulsed with conflicts based on
race, regionalism or culture. Mexico, on the whole, isn’t. Our
culture is generally inclusive. Almost the entire population of
the country is mestizo, of mixed origin, American Indian and
Spanish. In some areas (and in some minds), lingering bigotry
toward “Indians” persists, but it is by no means widespread.  Instead, Mexico displays a cultural inclusiveness in major
and minor matters, in our cuisine, in the names of our streets
and villages, in our art and in the nature of our religious
practices. Racism, where it exists in Mexico, cannot even be
remotely compared to the strain in  Europe  in the 20th and 21st
centuries. Consider, for example, that while  Evo Morales  of
 Bolivia  became the first indigenous president in Latin America
only relatively recently, Mexico installed Benito Juarez -- of
indigenous origin and a contemporary of  Abraham Lincoln , whose
moral and historical stature wasn’t dissimilar -- as president
in 1858.  And Mexico today doesn’t suffer from any acute religious
conflicts. Our 19th century was strongly marked by the divisions
between often anti-clerical (though not necessarily anti-
religious) Liberals and generally pro-Church Conservatives in an
overwhelmingly Catholic country. Even now, less than 90 percent
of Mexicans identify themselves as Catholic.  But under the leadership of Juarez, starting with the
Liberal victory in the War of Reform (1858-61) and the Reform
Laws that followed, Mexico chose to separate church and state
and to enshrine freedom of religion in legislation.  In recent times, except for the bloody Cristiada uprising
of the 1920s, when Catholic peasants (mostly in the west of
Mexico) rebelled against the anti-clerical measures of President
Plutarco Elias Calles, religion hasn’t been an important source
of discord. In contrast with some other Latin American
countries, the division between church and state has been an
enduring strength.  Religious Pluralism  Despite the overwhelming numerical predominance of one
religion, Mexico is tolerant of religious diversity.
Protestantism has made advances in the last few years, a trend
that is especially clear in some poorer states such as Chiapas
(which has a large indigenous population) or the southeast
states of Tabasco,  Quintana Roo  and Campeche (with a majority of
recent migrant populations). In Chiapas, in particular, less
than 70 percent of the population is still Catholic. We are
witnessing, within the context of religious freedom, a quiet and
generally peaceful evolution toward religious pluralism.  Many Mexicans, especially if they are young, now attend
fewer church services than their parents or grandparents did.
But the old piety still holds, inculcated from childhood, handed
down from mother to child. People of every occupation, even
criminals, have their patron saint. And the Virgin of Guadalupe,
a symbol of the nation, draws millions of worshippers, from all
over the country and all social classes, to her shrine north of
Mexico City on her feast day of Dec. 12.  The Mexican family, with its strong binding force, enhances
social cohesion. And though women are still burdened with relics
of machismo, their role is evolving. From the absolutely central
position they have long had within the structure of the family,
women are entering the labor market in increasing numbers,
sometimes as the family’s sole source of income. And they are
steadily advancing in the country’s political, cultural and
economic life, often taking important leadership roles.  Even the massive migration to the U.S. (where there are now
almost 20 million people of Mexican origin, compared with about
5 million in the 1970s) reflects certain strengths of our
culture. Immigrants remain closely attached to their families in
Mexico and send for them when they can. In contrast with earlier
immigrants, they rarely give up their language (although most
also want to learn English), or their religion (especially a
devotion to their local saint), or a taste for the food and
customs of their region.  Mexico is a country that measures its time in centuries and
even in millennia, but not in the same way as Egypt or  Greece .  In this sense, it is perhaps more like  India . Both are
complex countries blessed by and burdened with history. Like
India, Mexico is premodern, modern, postmodern and antimodern.
And sometimes it is all of those things at the same time.  Such cultural wealth is a great asset. And despite our real
problems (especially  crime  and poverty), if we can finally
confront and subdue what is wrong with us and continue to expand
the economy -- within a democratic framework -- our nation could
retain the strengths of its past while moving toward the future.  (Enrique Krauze, the author of “Mexico: Biography of
Power” and “Redeemers: Ideas and Power in  Latin America ,” is
a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed are his own.
This article was translated from the Spanish by Hank Heifetz.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Enrique Krauze at  ekrauze@prodigy.net.mx   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  