-- Fosun ‘Surprised’ by Soho, Greentown Announcement on Shanghai Land Deal
-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 2011-12-30T08:48:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-30/fosun-surprised-by-soho-greentown-announcement-on-shanghai-land-deal.html
Fosun International Ltd. (656)  said it may
take legal action after not being offered to buy the stake of
partners in a land venture on Shanghai’s historic Bund.  Fosun is “surprised” by the planned stake transfer of the
site to  Soho China Ltd. (410)  and it’s “of the view” it has the pre-
emptive right to buy the remaining share, it said in a  statement 
to the Hong Kong stock exchange today. Fosun will indirectly own
50 percent in the site after Soho agreed to pay 4 billion yuan
($633 million) for the other half from  Greentown China Holdings
Ltd. (3900)  and  Shanghai Zendai Property Ltd. (755) , according to a statement
yesterday.  Greentown and other Chinese developers are considering
selling land and other assets for cash as government curbs to
damp escalating  home prices  restrict sales. The government
intensified measures this year, including home-purchase
restrictions in 40 cities and higher mortgage requirements.  “If such interest cannot be protected, the company shall
take all appropriate legal actions to defend its interest,”
Fosun said in the statement.  Zendai has considered offers by other potential buyers,
including Fosun, for its stake in the plot, the company said in
a statement to Hong Kong’s stock exchange today.  “The company considers it has complied with all applicable
laws and regulations in entering into the proposed disposal,”
Zendai said. The deal with Soho China is “made in the best
interest of the shareholders.”  No Breach  Greentown hasn’t breached any agreement with the planned
sale, Chief Financial Officer Simon Fung said by phone earlier
today. He declined to comment further.  Greentown’s shares fell 0.3 percent to HK$3.37 at the 4 p.m.
close in  Hong Kong , while Soho China, the biggest developer in
Beijing’s central business district, rose 1 percent to HK$5.17.
Fosun gained 0.3 percent to HK$4.06. Zendai shares were
suspended.  Fosun declined to say when the company will start taking
legal actions in an e-mailed reply to Bloomberg’s query. Soho
China’s Chairman  Pan Shiyi  didn’t return calls from Bloomberg
seeking comment.  The proposed sale of the Shanghai land, which involves three
listed companies, sent a clearer signal that industry
consolidation has begun, Kris Li, a Shanghai-based analyst at
SWS Securities Co. said yesterday.  More Sales  The site at the Bund has about 45,472 square meters
(489,456 square feet) for mixed office, retail, financial, art
and culture development, according to the  statement  yesterday.  Greentown owns 10 percent of the site and will receive 1.04
billion yuan from the sale, which it will use to replenish its
working capital, the company said in a separate statement.  Greentown is in discussions to sell more of its projects to
raise cash, Fung said in a phone interview yesterday, adding
that he is “satisfied” with the selling price of the Bund site.  Shanghai  undertook a three-year renovation of the Bund, the
city’s colonial-era waterfront boulevard, lined with historic
buildings, ahead of the World Expo the city hosted in 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  