-- Fracking Ban Threats Seen Hollow in Calfrac Bonds: Canada Credit
-- B y   G e n e   L a v e r t y
-- 2011-12-30T14:51:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-30/fracking-ban-threats-seen-hollow-in-calfrac-bonds-canada-credit.html
Calfrac Well Services Ltd. (CFW) ’s bonds
are outperforming peers as investors bet that U.S. regulators
will continue to allow the practice of hydraulic fracturing,
which accounts for almost 90 percent of its sales.  Calfrac’s $450 million of 7.5 percent bonds due in 2020
yielded 7.9 percent on Dec. 28, or 625 basis points more than
 U.S. Treasuries . That compares with a yield of 8.63 percent and
a 759 basis-point spread for an index of similar B2-rated U.S.
speculative-grade bonds, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch data.  A boom in gas and oil production using hydraulic
fracturing, or fracking, which involves driving fluid into wells
to crack rock and boost output, has raised demand for equipment
like Calfrac’s 2,500-horsepower pumps. A U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency report this month linked the process with
groundwater contamination, raising concern it may be banned.  “For the purposes of U.S. energy security, it’s difficult
to see how they could ban fracking,” said Kevin Lo, an energy
analyst with FirstEnergy Capital Corp. in Calgary, where Calfrac
also is based. “It would drive prices up so high it would be
excruciatingly painful for the U.S. consumer.”  In the fracking process, water and chemicals under pressure
cause rock that holds oil or natural gas to crack, allowing it
to flow. The EPA said it found traces of fluids used for
fracking in drinking water near a Wyoming gas field. The agency
is studying the technique and may “where appropriate” add
regulations, according to its  website .  Calgary-based  Encana Corp. (ECA) , owner of the field near
Pavillion, Wyoming, denies fracking was responsible for the
contamination.  Spreads Widen  Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to own the debt of Canadian investment-grade corporations
rather than the federal government was 183 basis points
yesterday, or 1.83 percentage points, compared with 137 basis
points on Dec. 31, 2010, according to a Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index. Yields fell to 3.39 percent from 3.91 percent.  Canadian 10-year  government bonds (G0C0)  yielded 1.94 percent,
compared with 3.12 percent at the end of last year. The yield
touched 1.837 percent on Dec. 16, the lowest level in data
compiled by Bloomberg going back to 1989.  The 10-year  government securities  yielded six basis points
more than equivalent-maturity U.S. Treasuries, compared with 32
basis points more on Sept. 5, the most this year, and 17 basis
points less at the end of last year.  Canadian employers added 14,300 positions more than they
cut in December, according to the median of 14 forecasts
compiled by Bloomberg.  Statistics Canada  is due to release the
data on Jan. 6 in Ottawa.  Corporate Bonds  Canada’s  corporate bonds (F0C0)  have returned 7.8 percent this
year, according to the Merrill data. That compares with a 9.6
percent gain by Canadian  government bonds . Provincial bonds have
returned 11.5 percent, the most since 1997.  The nation’s companies issued C$77.7 billion ($76.1
billion) in debt this year, compared with C$78.8 billion in
2010, a drop of 1.4 percent, Bloomberg data show. Sales of
Canadian provincial, municipal and mortgage bonds rose 8.5
percent to C$104.1 billion, from C$95.9 billion.  Merrill’s Canada High Yield Index has returned 2.4 percent
this year, the least since 2008, after making 22 percent and 32
percent in 2010 and 2009. The firm’s U.S. High Yield Master II
Index is up 4.3 percent this year. The Canadian high-yield index
yielded 869 basis points more than federal benchmarks on Dec.
28. The spread was as low this year as 418 basis points in April
and as high as 890 in November.  Sales of so-called Maple bonds -- named for the leaf on the
nation’s flag to refer to debt raised in Canadian dollars by
foreign firms -- totaled C$3.2 billion this year, 33 percent
less than the C$4.8 billion sold last year, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Gas Output  The use of fracking has boosted output from shale
formations across  North America  and led to a natural gas glut
that has sent prices tumbling 42 percent this year. The benefits
of increased flow make gas production profitable at low prices,
raising demand for fracking.  “Calfrac has a very good reputation and good equipment,”
said Aniki Saha-Yannopoulos, an analyst at  Standard & Poor’s  in
Toronto. “They’re focusing on gas plays that have a very high
rate of return.”  Equipment has been in short supply as explorers seek to tap
shale formations in  Texas , North Dakota and the U.S. Northeast
that require high-pressure fracking. A single frack can require
a fleet of more than 100 trucks.  ‘Pricing Pressure’  Calfrac said Dec. 8 it will boost its  capital spending  10
percent to C$365 million next year to build and refurbish
equipment. The company will also spend about C$150 million in
the first half as capital projects carried over from this year
are completed.  “Investors believe there is a lot of fracking equipment
coming on line and that will put pricing pressure on the current
operation of projects,” said S&P’s Saha-Yannopoulos. “It won’t
be a demand-driven market, it will be a supply-driven market.”  Equipment requirements for fracking vary among formations.
In  North Dakota ’s Bakken and Texas’s Eagle Ford shales, truck-
mounted pumps working in concert need to produce as much as
40,000 horsepower, according to data compiled by FirstEnergy.
Steady demand for Calfrac’s fleets of equipment means that
replacement gear will take up a slice of the new manufacturing.  “Fracking equipment runs 24-7 because of the nature of the
activity,” Saha-Yannopoulos said. “The rule of thumb is that
equipment gets chewed up by as much as 20 percent every year.”  Safety Questioned  Questions surrounding the safety of fracking, and possible
regulation or banning of the practice in the U.S., have weighed
on Calfrac bonds, Saha-Yannopoulos said.  In addition to the EPA’s  Wyoming  study, drilling in
 Pennsylvania  has drawn complaints about drinking-water
contamination and drilling wastewater disposal.  Former New York Governor  David Paterson  put a moratorium on
drilling while regulators draft rules planned for completion
next year. Ohio is expected to issue rules on well construction
early next year, according to Heidi Hetzel-Evans, a department
spokeswoman.  “To ban fracturing wholesale would be devastating to the
natural-gas community in terms of activity,” FirstEnergy’s Lo
said.  Calfrac had about C$493 million in  debt (CFW)  as of Sept. 30,
according to S&P. Natural  gas prices  have averaged $4.545 per
million British thermal units this year compared with $5.8191 in
2010. New York oil futures have averaged $97.41 a barrel this
year, a gain of 14 percent.  Spreads on the Calfrac bonds widened 219 basis points this
year through Dec. 28, compared with the 223 basis-point average
widening of the 300 bonds in Merrill’s B2-rated index.  “What helps Calfrac on the fundamental basis is strength
in  oil prices ,” FirstEnergy’s Lo said. “As long as oil holds
at this level there’s a lot of targets to fracture.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gene Laverty in Calgary at 
 glaverty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  