-- Lady Gaga, Justin Bieber to Join Crowd Ringing in New Year in Times Square
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2011-12-31T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-30/gaga-joins-bieber-along-with-millions-ringing-in-new-year-in-times-square.html
Pop stars Lady Gaga and Justin
Bieber may help draw an estimated 1 million revelers to Times
Square as  New York City  rings in the New Year with the
ceremonial dropping of a 12-foot, illuminated crystal ball.  Event planners at the  Times Square Alliance  say crowds may
fill avenues north to Central Park and south to 38th Street. At
midnight, Lady Gaga, at Mayor  Michael Bloomberg ’s invitation,
will press a button triggering the ball-drop, the focus of New
York City’s year-end ritual since 1904.  “Lady Gaga is a great entertainer,” Bloomberg said
yesterday in an interview on WOR radio. “I saw her perform
once. She is a New York young lady.”  Gaga, 25, who grew up on the Upper West Side of  Manhattan 
as Stefani Joanne Germanotta, graduated from the Convent of the
Sacred Heart high school and attended New York University’s
 Tisch School of the Arts.  The mayor and the entertainer joined
forces this year to help push for the New York state law
legalizing gay marriage.  Gaga and 17-year-old Bieber, both of whom will perform live
on  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ABC television broadcast of the event, may
attract one of the youngest New Year’s Eve crowds ever, said Gia
Storms, a spokeswoman for the Times Square Alliance.  Police Commissioner Raymond Kelly said the department will
deploy “a counter-terrorism overlay” with sharpshooters on
rooftops, surveillance cameras and regular officers augmented by
1,500 police academy graduates on their first assignment.  ‘Record Crowd’  “This could be a record crowd,” Kelly told reporters
during a news conference in Manhattan. “We’ll have thousands of
police officers there.”  He said law-enforcement agencies had received “no specific
threats against the city,” which has been the target of 14
terrorist plots since the Sept. 11 attack that destroyed the
World Trade Center in 2001.  The New York forecast calls for a temperature of about 43
degrees Fahrenheit (6 degrees Celsius) and mostly clear skies at
midnight, according to the  National Weather Service .  Other scheduled events include fireworks displays in
Central Park,  Brooklyn ’s Prospect Park, and off Liberty Island
in New York Harbor.  Crowd control around Times Square will begin with
checkpoints at 16 entrances from 38th Street to 58th Street,
between Sixth and Eighth Avenues, Kelly said.  Police will divide the crowd into pens demarcated by
barricades. As in past years, anyone with alcohol or backpacks
will be turned away, and revelers who leave their position won’t
be readmitted, Kelly said.  Police deployments will be managed inside a Joint
Operations Center staffed with representatives from federal,
state and local law-enforcement agencies.  “It should be a pleasant time,” Kelly said.  The mayor is the founder and majority owner of Bloomberg
News parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  