-- Italian Government Bonds Set for Worst Year Since 1992; Spanish Debt Gains
-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 2011-12-30T16:07:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-30/german-government-bonds-snap-3-day-gain-paring-largest-returns-since-2008.html
Italian 10-year  bond yields (GBTPGR10)  stayed
at more than 7 percent for a second day, with the debt
completing its worst year since at least 1992 as fallout from
 Europe ’s debt crisis infected the region’s larger economies.  Italian bonds handed investors a 5.7 percent loss this
year, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. They’ve slid even as
the  European Central Bank  was said to have bought bought the
debt and  Mario Monti  replaced  Silvio Berlusconi  as Prime
Minister. German  bonds (GDBR10)  had their best year since 2008 as
investors sought a refuge from the crisis.  “The market lost confidence, particularly in Berlusconi
and his ability to drive forward measures” to counter the debt
crisis, said Eric Wand, a fixed-income strategist at Lloyds TSB
Bank Plc in London. “Now Monti is in place without any
political strings attached, it all depends on delivery. It’s a
case of convincing the market that things are sustainable.”  The Italian 10-year bond yield was little changed at 7.01
percent at 3:24 p.m.  London  time. It’s up from 4.82 percent on
Dec. 31, 2010. The 5 percent  securities (GBTPGR10)  maturing in March 2022
traded at 86.32 percent of face value. French and Belgian bonds
dropped.  The euro weakened for a sixth day against the Japanese
currency, falling below 100 yen for the first time since 2001,
and U.K. government bond yields fell to record lows, amid
mounting concern that austerity measures to counter Europe’s
debt crisis will slow growth.  European Manufacturing  Data (PMITMEZ)  next week may confirm European manufacturing
contracted for a fifth straight month.  With an economy sinking into its fourth recession since
2001, Monti’s government plans to raise almost half a trillion
euros ($649 billion) from bond and bill sales next year. At a
year-end press conference in  Rome  yesterday, Monti said he was
preparing measures aimed at cushioning the economic slump,
including deregulating labor markets and lowering fuel prices.  Borrowing costs fell at auctions of almost 20 billion euros
of Italian securities this week even as less than the maximum
target amount of bonds were sold. The ECB was seen buying up
debt to buoy the market for the bonds, helping the world’s
fourth-biggest borrower tap markets.  Spanish securities rose as Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy 
said his government will cut spending by 8.9 billion euros in
the first quarter and raise taxes, the first steps in a plan to
slash a  budget deficit  that will breach the target for this
year.  Rajoy’s Mission  Rajoy is trying to convince investors he can avoid
following Greece, Ireland and Portugal in needing a bailout
while reviving an economy hampered by Europe’s highest jobless
rate at 23 percent. The nation’s 10-year bond  yield (GSPG10YR)  dropped
eight basis points to 5.09 percent, having started the year at
5.45 percent and risen as high as 6.78 percent.  Volatility on  Spain ’s debt was the second-highest among 24
nations tracked by Bloomberg, according to measures of 10-year
bonds, two- and 10-year yield spreads and credit-default swaps.
Belgium’s securities were the most volatile.  The 10-year bund yield fell three basis points to 1.82
percent. The rate has tumbled more than a percentage point from
2.96 percent on Dec. 31. Two-year note yields were also little
changed, at 0.15 percent, after reaching a record-low 0.142
percent yesterday. Dutch two-year  note yields (GNTH2YR)  fell today to a
record 0.153 percent as investors sought the region’s safest
government debt securities.  French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  is set to travel to Berlin
on Jan. 9 to resume talks with German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
on ending the euro-region debt crisis, an official familiar with
the matter said yesterday.  French Sale  French 10-year yields rose five basis points to 3.14
percent.  France  will sell bonds maturing between 2021 and 2041
on Jan. 5, the nation’s debt agency said today.  Rates on similar-maturity Belgian debt increased two basis
points to 4.07 percent.  Lawmakers from Merkel’s Christian Social Union political
bloc are demanding conditions for agreeing to speed up the
addition of funds to the European Stability Mechanism bailout
facility, Financial Times Deutschland reported, citing Gerda
Hasselfeldt from the Bavarian CSU.  The group is prepared to agree to a faster increase if
other countries beside  Germany  also ramp up payments to the
fund, the newspaper cited Hasselfeldt as saying.  Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  ruled out a euro-area
breakup in an interview with Handelsblatt.  German securities, Europe’s benchmark government debt, have
handed investors a 9.6 percent profit this year, the most since
2008, according to the Bloomberg/EFFAS indexes. The worst
performers were Greece,  Portugal  and  Italy , as the sovereign-
debt crisis triggered sales of the nations’ government bonds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Dobson in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  