-- Gingrich Signals Attack on Leader Romney as Contest Moves to New Hampshire
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2011-12-30T16:08:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-30/gingrich-signals-attack-on-leader-romney-as-contest-moves-to-new-hampshire.html
Former U.S. House Speaker  Newt Gingrich , who has largely refrained from attacking Republican
rivals in the race for the party’s presidential nomination,
signaled that he is ready to confront  Mitt Romney , the former
Massachusetts governor favored in early contests.  “We’re going to have a great time with Romney in New
Hampshire,” Gingrich said in an interview yesterday with
Bloomberg News aboard his campaign bus in Iowa after leaving an
event in Storm Lake. “He’ll win, probably, but it will be much
more interesting than he wants.”  Romney holds a slight advantage over Republican opponents
in a poll this week of likely Iowa caucus-goers in advance of
the nation’s first presidential nominating contest on Jan. 3,
and he holds a commanding lead heading into  New Hampshire ’s
first party primary election on Jan. 10. Gingrich, who had
surged in recent polling, slid in the latest Iowa survey.  Gingrich, in the Bloomberg News interview, said that, while
Romney is likely to win the New Hampshire primary, he still will
have the resources to carry his challenge forward. The next
chances for slowing any Romney momentum would come in  South
Carolina  and Florida party primaries later in January.  While he may not win in New Hampshire, Gingrich said, he
can’t skip the nation’s first primary election. “Each race
generates a wave of national media,” Gingrich said. “My goal
is to have this become a race between a Massachusetts moderate
and a Georgia conservative.”  “The trick is to relax and gradually consolidate the
conservatives,” Gingrich said.  Freddie Mac   Gingrich, in an interview spanning about 20 minutes,
declined to release the financial records of his consulting
firm’s agreement with Freddie Mac, the government-backed
mortgage company that paid his firm at least $1.6 million, or
for other companies that hired his services.  He said Freddie Mac declined a request to waive a
confidentiality agreement to release the records.  Gingrich also said he didn’t believe any of his clients
were banks during the federal government’s bailout of financial
institutions in 2008. “I don’t believe we had any financial
institutions,” he said.  The former House speaker, who has denied lobbying for any
of his corporate clients, has faced a barrage of attack TV ads
leading to questions from audience members on the campaign
trail. At an event in Storm Lake, a man asked Gingrich to
explain his relationship with Freddie Mac.  ‘All the Zeroes’  “I don’t understand all of the zeroes,” the man said,
referring to the $1.6 million Gingrich’s consulting firm was
paid. Gingrich thanked him for the question and said he never
worked as a lobbyist. He said his firm had a contract with
Freddie Mac to consult on strategic issues and was paid over six
years. He personally received about $35,000 a year, Gingrich
said in the Bloomberg interview.  “I’m a citizen,” Gingrich told the man. “I do my citizen
duty; I tell people exactly what I think. I’m not a lobbyist. I
have never lobbied once.”  While reiterating plans in the interview to keep his
television commercials positive, Gingrich this week has been
stepping up criticism on the Iowa campaign trail of his two main
rivals, Romney and Texas Representative  Ron Paul . A Paul victory
in Iowa could weaken the future importance of the caucuses in
the nominating process, Gingrich suggested.  Drug Legalization  “It would be very good for the future of the Iowa caucuses
for somebody other than Ron Paul to win,” he said in the
interview. “Somebody who wins because a lot of college students
show up in favor of drug legalization doesn’t exactly strengthen
the idea that this is a good environment to fight in.”  Paul, who was the Libertarian Party’s candidate for
president in 1988, has argued that states should have the right
to set their own laws on matters such as marijuana.  Gingrich, trying to frame himself as the Republican
candidate in line with  Ronald Reagan ’s supply-side economic
philosophy, was joined in Storm Lake by Art Laffer, the Reagan-
era tax policy expert.  “Of the candidates today, Newt Gingrich is far and away
the best person to bring this country back into prosperity --
period,” Laffer said.  First to Fifth  A NBC News-Marist poll of 433 likely Iowa caucus-goers
released today showed Gingrich in fifth place in the state, with
13 percent support. Romney led with 23 percent, followed by Paul
with 21 percent, former Senator  Rick Santorum  of Pennsylvania
with 15 percent and Texas Governor  Rick Perry  with 14 percent.
The telephone poll was conducted Dec. 27-28 and has a margin of
error of plus or minus 4.7 percentage points.  In the last NBC-Marist survey, in late November, Gingrich
led with 28 percent.  “It’s all going to be turmoil until Tuesday night,” he
said yesterday on the campaign trail in Sioux City. “On
Tuesday, probably a third to half the people that walk in will
be open to changing their minds about all of us.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Carroll,  Iowa , at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  