-- Gingrich Sheds Tears as Iowa Caucus Campaign Enters Final Days
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s   a n d   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2011-12-31T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-30/gingrich-becomes-emotional-in-iowa-campaign-stop-talking-about-his-mother.html
With emotions running high in the
final days of the Republican presidential campaign in Iowa,  Newt Gingrich  wiped away tears yesterday while recalling his mother’s
struggles with illness as he and his rivals in the race worked
to lock down support in the Jan. 3 caucuses.  “I do policy much easier than I do personal,” Gingrich
said, his voice breaking with emotion at an event in Des Moines
aimed at mothers.  The moment, reminiscent of one then-Senator  Hillary Rodham Clinton  had four years ago, came as a NBC News-Marist survey
released yesterday showed former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney leading the Republican field in Iowa with 23 percent,
followed by Representative  Ron Paul  of Texas with 21 percent.  Former U.S. Senator  Rick Santorum  of Pennsylvania had 15
percent, followed by  Texas  Governor  Rick Perry  at 14 percent,
Gingrich at 13 percent and Minnesota Representative  Michele Bachmann  at 6 percent.  In a NBC-Marist survey late last month, Gingrich led with
28 percent. The current telephone survey, conducted Dec. 27-28,
has a margin of error of plus or minus 4.7 percentage points.  Gingrich’s backing has dropped as attacks against him by
other candidates and groups associated with them escalated.  $2.5 Million  About 10 times more anti-Gingrich ads have aired in Iowa
than commercials that support him. More than $2.5 million has
been spent attacking Gingrich, compared to just over $250,000
spent in his favor, according to data compiled by CMAG/Kantar
Media, a New York-based company that tracks political spending.  “This is a wild and woolly campaign,” Gingrich told
supporters last night in Creston, Iowa.  He also shrugged off the latest poll, saying “no one knows
who’s going to decide to show up” to the caucuses.  At the earlier appearance in Des Moines, Gingrich was asked
about his mother and how she shaped his life by moderator  Frank Luntz , a Republican pollster.  The former U.S. House speaker from  Georgia  recalled his 
mother as happy and joyful, and discussed her living in a 
long-term care facility to help treat her bipolar disease 
and other physical ailments before her death in 2003.  “My whole emphasis on brain science comes in directly from
dealing, um,” he said, as his voice broke and tears welled in
his eyes.  “See, I’m having emotion,” he continued. “From dealing
with the real problems of real people in my family.”  Clinton Episode  Clinton, now serving as President Barack Obama’s Secretary
of State, briefly shed tears at a 2008 campaign event in  New
Hampshire  as she sought the Democratic presidential nomination
that year. Clinton, then a U.S. senator from New York, won the
state’s primary the next day after trailing in the polls to
Obama, then a senator from  Illinois .  Romney ended a three-day bus tour through Iowa yesterday
with a morning rally where several hundred supporters gathered
in a cold, drizzly rain to see him speak in a parking lot in
West  Des Moines .  He was joined by  New Jersey  Governor  Chris Christie , who
playfully told voters to back Romney or else he “would be back,
Jersey style.”  After the event, Romney flew to New Hampshire for a 36-hour
campaign swing. He’ll return to Iowa today and stay until the
morning after the caucuses, a sign of confidence about his
prospects in the state. In past campaigns, candidates worried
about their showing in the caucuses typically have left Iowa by
then to try to limit the importance placed on the outcome.  As Romney’s Iowa crowds have grown, his rivals have battled
to emerge as his chief challenger.  ‘Chameleon’ Ad  In New Hampshire, a group supporting former Utah Governor
Jon Huntsman Jr. released new television ads blasting Romney as
a political “chameleon.”  The ad campaign sponsored by Our Destiny PAC is the most
direct attack yet aimed at Romney.  “Two serious candidates remain,” says a narrator in the
spot, flashing photos of Huntsman and Romney. “One willing to
say anything, be anything. One who can actually do the job.”  Huntsman isn’t competing in the  Iowa  race, focusing his
efforts instead on New Hampshire, where the nation’s first
primary will be held Jan. 10.  Democratic Criticism  Democrats also are ratcheting up their fire at Romney. The
Democratic National Committee yesterday released another in a
series of web videos depicting him as out of touch with the
economic anxieties of average Americans. The video criticized
Romney, whose financial disclosure in August estimated his
personal wealth at as much as $250 million, for saying he
probably wouldn’t release his tax returns if he wins the
Republican nomination.  “What is Mitt Romney hiding?” the video asks.  Paul yesterday offered tepid praise for his major rival in
the Iowa race.  “I think he probably understands how the market works as a
businessman a little bit better than a guy like Gingrich,” Paul
said of Romney in an interview airing this weekend on Bloomberg
Television’s “Political Capital with  Al Hunt .”  Still, Paul said he doesn’t think Romney has “convictions
that come close to mine,” and that he views all of his rivals
as being political insiders.  ‘Status Quo’  “I put them all in the same category,” he said. “They
all are part of the status quo.”  After campaigning yesterday in western Iowa, Paul took a
break from the state to spend the New Year’s weekend with his
family. He’ll return on Jan. 2 to conduct a daylong whistle-stop
tour across five counties with his son, Senator Rand Paul of
 Kentucky .  Bachmann spent her day meeting voters at coffee shops in
Sioux City. She plans to visit her state campaign headquarters
in Urbandale today and join student volunteers making calls to
voters on her behalf.  Santorum, who has seen his support rise in recent polls
after campaigning almost solely in Iowa for months, spent part
of his day in Ames, home of  Iowa State University . He hosted a
“watch party” at a sports bar where patrons watched Iowa
State’s football team play New Jersey’s  Rutgers University  in
the  New Era Pinstripe Bowl .  Rutgers triumphed, 27-13, in the game played at  New York ’s
Yankee Stadium.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Carroll, Iowa, at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net ; Lisa Lerer in Des Moines, Iowa at +1-
   llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  