-- Gingrich Campaign Sees Revolutionary Crossing in Cash Race
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t   a n d   K r i s t i n   J e n s e n
-- 2011-12-30T17:33:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-30/gingrich-echoes-washington-s-delaware-crossing-in-year-end-drive-for-cash.html
Newt Gingrich ’s staff compares the
next few days of his presidential campaign with George  Washington ’s crossing of the ice-filled Delaware River during
the American Revolutionary War more than 200 years ago.  “Our preparations are coming to an end,” Gingrich’s
campaign manager, Michael Krull, said in a Dec. 26 e-mail to
supporters. “Grab an oar and make a donation.”  Days before the Jan. 3 Iowa caucuses, Republican hopefuls
are ramping up fundraising pitches by reinforcing the images put
forward by their campaigns. For Gingrich, who rarely misses an
opportunity to draw on his background as a history professor,
that means comparing his slog through Iowa with Washington’s
successful sneak attack in December 1776.  Mitt Romney’s national finance chairman, Spencer Zwick,
said the candidate who has out-raised his opponents “is best
prepared in organization and resources to go toe-to-toe against
Obama’s billion-dollar political machine in 2012.”  Ron Paul asked his army of “grassroots patriots” to raise
$2 million for the man who has “often stood alone” for
libertarian positions.  “The name of the game is showcasing differentiation
wherever it exists,” said  David Primo , a political science
professor at the University of Rochester in  New York . Otherwise,
the candidates “are like products in a marketplace where many
of the items are pretty similar,” he said.  Romney Leads  Candidates are pushing for contributions ahead of
tomorrow’s close of the fourth quarter reporting period, though
they won’t report their fundraising totals and who has donated
to them until Jan. 31. By then, the first four states -- Iowa,
New Hampshire,  South Carolina  and  Florida  -- will have voted,
and candidates short of support and money will have withdrawn.  Through Sept. 30, Romney, a former governor of
 Massachusetts , led the money race with almost $33 million. Texas
Governor  Rick Perry  raised $17 million and Paul, a Texas
congressman, brought in almost $13 million.  U.S. Representative  Michele Bachmann  of  Minnesota   received
$7.5 million through September. Former Utah Governor  Jon Huntsman  raised $2.2 million and lent his campaign another $2.2
million. At the bottom of the pack for the third quarter of 2011
were Gingrich, a former House speaker, with $2.9 million and
former Pennsylvania Senator  Rick Santorum  with $1.3 million.  Gingrich Fundraising  The Gingrich campaign, yet to report its fourth-quarter
fundraising, says it has been strong.  “The campaign for the fourth quarter has raised a similar
amount of money to what  John McCain  raised in 2007 at the same
point,” R.C. Hammond, Gingrich’s campaign spokesman, said in Le
Mars,  Iowa , this week. “To save you from having to look it up,
that’s about $9 million.”  A fundraising pitch e-mailed today by Krull sought an
additional $1 million in donations by the end of tomorrow. “We
need a candidate with the courage to go beyond timid
disagreements and to undress the failed policies of liberalism
with stark conservative arguments,” he wrote.  While Gingrich’s campaign has repaid some of its debt,
Hammond declined to say how much. The campaign will end the
quarter showing a positive balance of cash on hand, he said.  Pressure is mounting now, with a last-minute spending spree
in Iowa and the need to build up cash reserves for the contest
in  New Hampshire  a week later and the states beyond -- should
the candidates survive in the race that long.  Santorum e-mailed supporters about his third-place finish
in a CNN/Time/ORC International poll on the Republican race
released yesterday.  “We have the momentum on our side now to surprise everyone
with a strong finish in the Iowa caucuses,” he wrote in the
fundraising pitch. “But we need to make sure we have the
resources to contact the caucus goers between now and caucus
day.”  ‘ Iron Lady ’  Huntsman and Bachmann both sent out fundraising appeals
saying they are the “consistent conservative” that primary
voters want. Bachmann yesterday compared herself with former
British Prime Minister  Margaret Thatcher , whose conservative
policies earned her the nickname “Iron Lady.”  “As president I want to be America’s Iron Lady,” Bachmann
said.  Romney, long one of the front-runners, had focused more on
New Hampshire’s Jan. 10 primary election than on the Iowa
caucuses. He has increased his efforts in Iowa recently to fend
off a surge in the polls by Gingrich and a continued steady
climb by Paul.  While Gingrich’s e-mail recalls the threat of British
Redcoats and their hired mercenaries, Paul is fighting what his
campaign calls “an all-out smear campaign” on the candidate.
“The attack dogs have been unleashed like never before,” Paul
said in a Dec. 26 fundraising appeal.  “With the attacks coming fast and furious, you and I need
to raise another $2 million to be able to keep taking  Ron Paul ’s
liberty message straight to the voters in Iowa, New Hampshire,
and the other early states,” his campaign manager, John Tate,
said in an e-mail a day later.  At least one presidential candidate has written off Iowa,
focusing his campaign instead on New Hampshire.  Huntsman’s campaign issued a request yesterday for
donations of at least $12 -- 12 days before New Hampshire votes.  “They pick corn in Iowa,” Huntsman said yesterday in an
interview with CBS. “They actually pick presidents here in New
Hampshire.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net ;
Kristin Jensen in Washington at 
 kjensen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  