-- GM Downplays China’s End of Policy to Attract Foreign Investment
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2011-12-30T10:27:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-30/gm-downplays-china-s-end-of-policy-to-attract-foreign-investment.html
  General Motors Co. (GM) , the biggest
overseas automaker in China, downplayed the risks to its
expansion plans in the world’s largest car market after the
state ends a seven-year policy to attract foreign investments.  “We expect the new guideline to have minimal negative
impact on GM’s future plans in China,” the Detroit-based
company said in a statement today. Dayna Hart, a Shanghai-based
spokeswoman at GM, didn’t elaborate on the statement.  Yesterday’s announcement, which comes two weeks after China
announced it would impose punitive tariffs on U.S.-made
vehicles, means overseas carmakers will probably face
difficulties getting state approval to build future plants in
the country, according to research firm LMC Automotive. Global
automakers are counting on China and the U.S. to drive growth
next year as  Europe ’s debt crisis hampers the region’s economy.  Officials at  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  and  Ford Motor Co. (F)  declined to
comment on how the changes in government policy will affect
their business in China and said current investments won’t be
hurt.  Daimler AG (DAI)  and  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  officials didn’t
immediately respond to e-mails, while Akihiro Nakanishi, a
Guangzhou-based spokesman for  Nissan Motor (7201)  Co., declined to
comment.  The new rules will go into effect Jan. 30, China’s National
Development and Reform Commission and the nation’s commerce
ministry said in a  statement  yesterday. The move, meant to allow
for a “healthy development” of China’s auto industry, won’t
apply to foreign investments in fuel-efficient vehicles, which
will still be encouraged, they said.  Foreign Benefits  Previous benefits enjoyed by the foreign carmakers included
reduced tariffs on imported plant equipment, said Jenny Gu, an
analyst at LMC Automotive in  Shanghai .  Although foreign companies are required to partner with a
domestic company to manufacture cars in the country, Chinese
producers are struggling. Though China has more than 70
automakers, the bottom 55 only account for 11 percent of the
vehicle sales, according to the China Association of Automobile
Manufacturers.  “VW will work toward fulfilling its expansion plans in
China, which include actively developing electric cars and new-
energy vehicles, and will continue to bring in fuel-efficient
technologies and products,” Wolfsburg, Germany-based VW said in
a statement.  Kevin Wale , GM’s China president, said in a Bloomberg
Television interview this month that the company plans to boost
production capacity by 25 percent to 40 percent over the next
two years. GM said today it expects to remain a “key pillar”
of the Chinese automobile industry.  Ford is “strongly committed” to  China , it said in an e-
mail.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  