-- U.S. Growth May Accelerate as Europe Shrinks
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s   a n d   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2011-12-30T21:55:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-30/growth-in-u-s-may-quicken-on-confidence-even-as-europe-shrinks-economy.html
Rising confidence, fewer firings and
gains in holiday sales show the U.S. economy is picking up,
defying a slowdown in  Europe  and much of the rest of the world.  The divergence will become even starker in 2012 as the
world’s largest economy accelerates, the 17-member euro area
sinks into a recession and growth in emerging markets cools,
according to economists like  Maury Harris  of UBS Securities LLC
and  Barclays Capital  Inc.’s  Dean Maki .  “There is a sense of decoupling,” said Harris, chief
economist at UBS Securities in New York, whose team was the most
accurate in forecasting the U.S. economy in the two years
through September. “We can still have a decent year here in the
U.S. even with the rest of the world slowing down.”  An improving job market and freer credit may underpin
American household sentiment and spending just as the debt
crisis in Europe prompts additional belt-tightening overseas.
Stabilization in housing will erase a source of weakness at the
same time vehicle replacement demand benefits companies like
 General Motors Co. (GM)   Stocks fell on concern over  Spain ’s budget deficit. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 0.4 percent to 1,257.6 at
the close in New York. The benchmark equity gauge was little
changed this year.  Investors have been less kind to European equities. The
Stoxx Europe 600 Index dropped almost 12 percent in 2011 as the
debt crisis spread across the major economies of the euro area.  China  and U.K.  Among reports today, manufacturing in China contracted in
December for a second month as Europe’s debt crisis slowed
export demand. The euro area’s crisis is crimping housing and
growth in the U.K. as well, with the average cost of a home
dropping 0.2 percent in December, the first monthly decline
since August, the Swindon, England-based Nationwide Building
Society said in an e-mail.  The extension of a  tax cut  through February is one reason
economists are turning more optimistic on U.S. prospects. The
economy will grow 2.5 percent in 2012, up from a prior estimate
of 1.9 percent, according to a revised forecast issued on Dec.
23 by  Michael Feroli , chief U.S. economist at JPMorgan Chase &
Co. in New York. The new estimate was based on the assumption
that lawmakers will agree to retain the tax break for all of
next year, he said in a research note.  JPMorgan projects the combined economies of the countries
in the euro area will shrink 0.7 percent next year.  Fewer Jobless Claims  Another reason for optimism is a decrease in firings by
U.S. companies that may portend a pickup in hiring in early
2012. Fewer Americans filed applications for jobless benefits in
the four weeks through Dec. 24 than at any time since June 2008,
according to figures yesterday from the Labor Department.  Less joblessness, rebounding stocks and falling gasoline
prices are helping boost confidence. The Bloomberg Consumer
Comfort Index reached a five-month high in December.  “We can tell that something is clicking if jobless claims
are down and confidence is up,” said UBS’s Harris, who projects
the  U.S. economy  will grow 2.1 percent in 2012.  Maki, chief U.S. economist at Barclays Capital in New York,
forecasts 2.5 percent growth next year, up from 1.7 percent in
2011. The euro region will contract 0.2 percent after expanding
1.5 percent, he said.  Europe a ‘Headwind’  “We are diverging significantly as we move into 2012,”
Maki said. “Europe is a headwind for the U.S., but we don’t
think a European recession necessarily drags the U.S. into a
recession.”  One reason is that  consumer spending , which accounts for
about 70 percent of the economy, has held up this year even as
confidence slumped amid growing concern about Europe, the threat
of a government shutdown during the mid-year debate on the U.S.
debt limit and the downgrade of U.S. Treasury securities by S&P,
Maki said.  Housing and auto sales, two areas which slumped during the
recession, will probably improve.  Economists at Toronto-based BMO Capital Markets, led by
Sherry Cooper, forecasts U.S. home construction will add to
gross domestic product in 2012, led by the building of
apartments and townhouses. Residential construction detracted
from growth from 2006 through 2010 and was little changed this
year.  The  auto industry  will strengthen as Americans replace
aging and scrapped vehicles after delaying purchases since the
recession, according to economists at Nomura Securities
International Inc. in  New York . For the number of cars per adult
to hold at current levels, sales will need to climb to about a
16 million annual rate in coming years, the group led by Lewis Alexander wrote in a Dec. 5 report.  Auto Sales  Vehicle sales ran at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of
13.6 million in November, according to Autodata Corp.  “We’re encouraged by the industry’s recent performance and
the developments that we’ve seen in the economy,”  Don Johnson ,
GM’s vice president for U.S. sales, said on a conference call
this month.  The U.S. economy’s ability to weather the mid-year slump in
equities and confidence means it will overcome a European
slowdown next year, said  Vincent Reinhart , chief U.S. economist
at Morgan Stanley in New York.  “The most important source of contagion is through
financial markets, and we have already felt that,” said
Reinhart. Morgan Stanley projects the U.S. will grow 2.2 percent
in 2012 while the euro countries shrink 0.2 percent.  “There is a recession in Europe right now, but we aren’t
forecasting a full-blown crisis and the euro hangs together,”
Reinhart said. “Conditional on that, then the U.S. gets by.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net ;
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  