-- Live From U.S., the Tea Party: Skocpol and Williamson
-- B y   T h e d a   S k o c p o l   a n d   V a n e s s a   W i l l i a m s o n
-- 2011-12-30T00:00:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-30/live-from-america-tea-partiers-speak-commentary-by-skocpol-and-williamson.html
(Corrects second paragraph of story published Dec. 30 to
reflect the number of  Tea Party  meetings the authors attended.
This is an excerpt from Theda Skocpol and Vanessa Williamson’s
forthcoming book, “The Tea Party and the Remaking of Republican
Conservatism.”)  Constitution talk routinely bubbles
up at discussions in Tea Party gatherings. References to the
Constitution are used to justify positions and render particular
views incontestable.  But some parts of the Constitution are favored over others.
During 2010 and 2011, we attended about a dozen Tea Party
meetings in several states, from  Massachusetts  to Arizona, and
gathered research on hundreds more. In a telling aside during a
question-and-answer period with members of the York County
Constitutionalists in  North Berwick ,  Maine , one speaker
mentioned that he might prefer to limit the amendments to the
Constitution to the Bill of Rights and omit the rest altogether.  What’s striking about Tea Partiers and the Constitution,
however, isn’t so much what they think about what it says. It’s
their conviction that it was written for, and should be read by,
average Americans like them. “It’s amazing how quickly the
Constitution became a second language,” said Sandra Asimov of
 Virginia . This attitude, in turn, affects their views of
politics, government and America itself.  Many Tea Party members are Protestant evangelical
Christians who have transferred the skills and approaches of
Bible study directly to the Constitution. Tea Parties across the
country participate in Constitution study groups, and in such
gatherings tackle the original texts themselves, although other
commentaries and books are also favored.  Ritual Gestures  A persistent refrain in Tea Party circles is scorn for
politicians who fail to show suitable reverence for, and mastery
of, America’s founding documents. Catering to Tea Party
supporters, the Republican-controlled House of Representatives
opened the  112th Congress  by staging a public reading of the
Constitution (though omitting touchy passages about slaves).  Tea
Partiers  told us that they appreciated this ritual gesture,
though it didn’t dampen their suspicions of politicians.  Tea Party skepticism about elected officials and experts is
almost uniform among members. To guard against possible
bamboozlement -- and to demonstrate their own virtue and skill
as informed democratic citizens -- Tea Party members arm
themselves for confrontations with their legislative
representatives by reading particular bills themselves, and many
groups have formed subcommittees to track legislation. With a
chortle, Tea Party interviewees repeatedly offered their own
stories of seeing an elected representative caught in a
misstatement by a Tea Party activist.  It would be a mistake, however, to equate the Tea Party’s
skepticism of politics with a hatred of government. All
Americans have ambivalent, even contradictory, attitudes toward
government. Large majorities of Americans say they approve of
less government, yet they also favor public education,
subsidized health care, veterans’ benefits, Social Security and
many other specific government activities. That Americans are,
simultaneously, ideological conservatives and operational
liberals has been documented for as long as social scientists
have been able to probe and measure public opinion.  Tea Partiers are said to be different. Observers portray
them as firm and consistent in pure opposition to taxes, big
government, handouts to business, expensive social programs and
intrusive regulations. But a lazy conflation of elite and
popular strands of Tea Partyism is at work in such claims.
Professional free-market advocates like  Dick Armey , who say they
speak for grassroots members of the Tea Party, spout their views
about cutting taxes, privatizing Social Security and sweeping
away regulations. Every elite faction in and around the GOP
imputes its preferences to grassroots Tea Partiers.  Out-of-Control Spending  In our interviews and group discussions, however, we
found Tea Party members to be quite inconsistent about
government. At the abstract level, all of them decry big
government, out-of-control public spending and ballooning
deficits. But when governmental specifics come into view, it’s a
different story. Tea Partiers aren’t opposed to all kinds of
regulation or big tax-supported spending. Rank-and-file Tea
Party participants evaluate regulations and spending very
differently, depending on who or what is regulated, and whether
those who benefit from various kinds of public spending are
considered hard workers or freeloaders.  The current Tea Party distinction between freeloaders and
hardworking taxpayers has undertones that distinguish it from a
simple reiteration of the long-standing American creed. In Tea
Party eyes, undeserving people aren’t defined simply by a
tenuous attachment to the  labor market (USURTOT)  or receipt of unearned
government handouts. Worthiness is a cultural category, closely
tied to certain racially and ethnically tinged assumptions about
American society in the early 21st century. Tea Party resistance
to giving more to people deemed undeserving is more than just an
argument about taxes and spending. It’s a heartfelt cry about
where they fear their country may be headed.  Tea Party worries about racial and ethnic minorities and
overly entitled young people signal fear about generational
social change in America. To outside observers, Tea Partiers
often seem disproportionately angry, but it’s a mistake to
assess emotional responses as if they were policy statements.
When Tea Partiers talk about their rights, they’re asserting a
desire to live again in the America they remember -- and to pass
it on to their children and grandchildren.  A meeting in Tempe, Arizona, featured a speaker who
recounted the kind of stories that lead sensationalistic local
TV news programs, emphasizing nightmarish scenarios of home
invasion and rape. This is why, she said, all women should
always carry concealed firearms. Then she patted her right hip:
Following her own advice, she was carrying a concealed weapon
during her talk. In the minds of Tea Party activists, the
American present -- and especially the future -- is often more
than worrisome; it can be downright terrifying.  Coming Collapse  Yes, Tea Partiers speak constantly about an out-of-
control federal  budget deficit (FDDSGDP)  and the coming doom they think it
portends for the  United States . They are concerned that U.S.
deficits might be addressed in part with tax increases, which
they imagine would require people like them to help pay for
unfair social spending. But the fiscal question in the Tea Party
imagination is more than just a redistributive matter. In the
telling of many Tea Partiers, the ballooning federal deficit
merges into a general sense of a coming collapse for America.  One might imagine the changes that worry Tea Partiers to
be primarily economic. But Tea Party members rarely emphasize
economic concerns. The nightmare of societal decline is usually
painted in cultural hues, and the villains in the picture are
freeloading social groups, liberal politicians, bossy
professionals, big government and the news media.  Forces conspire, an  Arizona  retiree, Stella Fisher says,
“to the breaking down of conservative society.” Kids today,
she says, think “it’s not so important that you get married,
even if you have a baby with somebody.”  Members of the Tea Party peer out at a fast-changing
society and worry. The public image of the Tea Party is one of
anger. But in our experience, the more typical emotion is fear.  (Theda Skocpol is a professor of government and sociology
at  Harvard University . Vanessa Williamson is a doctoral
candidate in government and social policy at Harvard. This is an
excerpt from their forthcoming book, “The Tea Party and the
Remaking of Republican Conservatism.” to be published Jan. 2 by
 Oxford University Press .)  To contact the writers of this article:
Theda Skocpol at  skocpol@fas.harvard.edu  and Vanessa Williamson
 vwilliams@fas.harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Michael Newman at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 