-- Liverpool Defeats Newcastle 3-1, Ties for Fourth in English Premier League
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h   a n d   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2011-12-31T00:01:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-30/liverpool-beats-newcastle-3-1-to-move-up-english-premier-league-standings.html
Craig Bellamy  scored twice and
 Steven Gerrard  added a late goal as Liverpool defeated Newcastle
3-1 to pull even with fourth-place Chelsea in English soccer’s
Premier League with 34 points.  The Reds, who fell behind in last night’s game on an own-
goal, remained unbeaten in 10 home league matches this season --
though they’ve won just four of those.  “The boys showed great courage and commitment to come
back,” Liverpool coach  Kenny Dalglish  told reporters. “We
thoroughly deserve the victory, but I think that game was the
least chances we have created at Anfield and we score three
goals.”  Defending champion Manchester United would take sole
possession of first place today with a win or tie against last-
place Blackburn. United and  Manchester City , which plays at
Sunderland tomorrow, currently are tied with 45 points.  Newcastle, which scored on an own-goal from Liverpool’s
 Daniel Agger , remains seventh with 30 points. The Magpies have
won once in their past eight league games.  “We could have been better tonight, we should have been
more positive in the second half,” Newcastle coach Alan Pardew
told reporters. “Steven Gerrard gives them an impetus and
lifted the atmosphere in the stadium.”  Newcastle opened the scoring when a shot deflected into the
net off Agger’s shoulder in the 25th minute. Four minutes later,
Liverpool tied the game when Bellamy smashed a shot through a
crowd of players.  Bellamy broke the tie midway through the second half on a
free kick from 25 yards out, and Gerrard added his goal with 12
minutes left by slipping a shot between the legs of Newscastle
goalkeeper Tim Krul.  “Of late we haven’t got what we deserved, so it was really
pleasing to get the three points tonight and three goals after
criticism we haven’t scored enough,” Gerrard said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Gloster in  San Francisco  at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  