-- Kenyan Stocks Head for 30% Drop as Higher Inflation Hurt Growth
-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 2011-12-30T11:59:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-30/kenyan-stocks-head-for-30-drop-as-higher-inflation-hurt-growth.html
The Kenyan stock market is set for a
30 percent plunge this year as drought drove inflation, hurting
consumer spending and corporate profits in east  Africa ’s biggest
economy.  The  Nairobi Stock Exchange’s All Share Index (NSEASI)  rose 0.4
percent to 54.48 points as of 12:35 p.m. in Nairobi, the biggest
gain in three days. A close at this level will make the index
the second-worst performing in Africa this year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Egypt fell the most, down 49
percent.  “Investors worries during the year boiled down to macro
fundamentals because if you look at companies fundamentals they
are pretty intact,” George Bodo, an equity strategist at
Nairobi-based Apex Africa Capital Ltd., said by phone today.  East African growth has been hit by an acceleration in
inflation amid a drought that curtailed new investment by
businesses and eroded  consumer spending  power, Secretary General
Richard Sezibera said in an interview in Bujumbura, the
Burundian capital, on Dec. 1. Inflation  slowed (KNPRIYY)  to 18.9 percent
in December, the first decline in 13 months, according to data
from the Kenya National Bureau of Statistics.  The shilling depreciated to a record intraday low of 106.75
on Oct. 11, weakening 26 percent. The central bank stabilized
the currency with measures such as raising the key lending rate
to a record 18 percent. The shilling, up 0.1 percent today, is
headed for a 5.2 percent fall this year.  Gainers and Losers  Only six of 55 stocks in the benchmark rose on an  year-to-
date (NSEASI)  basis, four of them being tea companies.  City Trust Ltd. (CTRL) ,
jumped 94 percent,  Williamson Tea Kenya Ltd. (GWKL) , surging 53
percent, and  Kapchorua Tea Co. (KPTC) , catapulting 25 percent, led the
gainers.  “The top stocks are peripheral companies, the shilling
came to their aid,” Bodo said. “They earned more because of
the weaker shilling but their core business is dependent on rain
which was not very good this year.”  AccessKenya Ltd. (ACCESS) , which plunged 61 percent,  Kenya Airways
Ltd. (KNAL) , plummeting 54 percent and  Housing Finance Ltd. (HFCL) , tumbling
51 percent, led the index losers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at  