-- North Korea Threatens South, Tells World Expect No Change From Kim Jong Un
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2011-12-31T02:12:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-30/n-korea-threatens-south-indicates-no-changes.html
North Korea  warned the world not to
expect change from the regime under new leader Kim Jong Un and
threatened a “roar of revenge” against South Korean President
 Lee Myung Bak  as Kim was appointed head of the army.  Lee had provoked North  Korea  by raising security alerts and
declining to send an official mission to pay condolences after
the Dec. 17 death of Kim Jong Il, the National Defense
Commission said in a statement carried by the state-run Korean
 Central News Agency  yesterday. The release came a day after
North Korea ended a mourning period for Kim’s death.  “The veritable sea of tears shed by the army and people of
the DPRK will turn into that of retaliatory fire to burn all the
group of traitors to the last one,” the statement said, echoing
rhetoric during  Kim Jong Il ’s rule. “The DPRK will have no
dealings with the Lee Myung Bak group of traitors forever.”
DPRK refers to the country’s official name, the Democratic
People’s Republic of Korea.  Both Kim Jong Un and Lee face leadership tests that could
shape their attitude toward engagement. Kim Jong Un needs to
cement his grip on power in a country where the  United Nations 
says  one-third of the children  are physically stunted from a
lack of nutrition. Lee and his ruling party, which rolled back
the “Sunshine Policy” of engagement with the nuclear-armed
North, have dropped in opinion polls ahead of elections next
year.  Army Commander  KCNA reported today that Kim Jong Un was appointed supreme
commander of the Korean People’s Army, citing a decision taken
yesterday at a meeting of the Politburo of the  Central Committee 
of the Workers’ Party of Korea.  “Standing at the helm of the Korean revolution is Kim Jong
Un, the only successor Kim Jong Il,” KCNA reported, citing the
Politburo’s statement that called on the people to support the
new leader.  North Korea must take a “decisive turn in the drive to
build the country into an economic giant and improve the
people’s standard of living,” the Workers’ Party central
committee and Central Military Commission said in a joint
statement today, published by KCNA. The power, coal and metal
industries must be developed, foreign trade expanded and the
capital, Pyongyang, turned into a world class city, they said.  Kim Jong Il made the country into an invincible political
and ideological power and a powerful nuclear weapons state,
according to the joint statement.  Economic Measures  Kim Jong Un needs to “prove himself in launching his new
regime -- and an economic measure would be the most efficient
way of doing that,” said Yang Moo Jin, a professor of North
Korean politics at the University of North Korean Studies in
 Seoul  yesterday. “What’s more hard-hitting for North Koreans
than policies that affect how they’ll be able to put food on the
table?”  His appointment as leader of the army signals North Korea’s
intent to carry on its military-first, or “Songun,” policy,
which gives priority in allocating resources and in state
affairs to the army, Yang said today.  In his annual address on Jan. 2, Lee will focus on inter-
Korean relations,  inflation (SKCIYOY)  and unemployment, according to a
spokesman at Lee’s office who declined to be named, citing
government policy.  North Korea’s 2010 gross domestic product was 30 trillion
won ($26.5 billion), one-fortieth the size of South Korea’s,
according to estimates by the South’s central bank. North
Korea’s economy probably shrank in four of the past five years,
the  Bank of Korea  says. Pyongyang doesn’t release GDP data.  Growth to Slow  South Korea’s gross domestic product nearly doubled to
1,173 trillion won ($1 trillion) from 2001 to 2010. The Bank of
Korea forecasts that the country’s economic growth will slow to
3.7 percent next year from 3.8 percent this year.  Lee will take advantage of the transition in the North and
announce a more conciliatory stance, said Kim Young Yoon of the
Seoul-based Korea Institute for National Reunification. The
opposition has blamed Lee for escalating tensions, saying his
tough stance provoked hostilities that killed 50 South Koreans
in 2010.  Lee scaled back the Sunshine Policy implemented by his
predecessor, Kim Dae Jung, when he entered office in 2008,
saying that Kim Jong Il’s provocative policies shouldn’t be
rewarded.  Lee’s approval rating is at 26.9 percent, according to a
poll of 3,750 South Koreans conducted Dec. 19-23 by Seoul-based
Real Meter. The margin of error was plus or minus 1.6 percentage
points.  Nuclear Talks  “The current mood in  South Korea  is to take advantage of
the North’s regime change and improve inter-Korean relations,”
Kim said. “The easiest way to do that would be to call for
high-level meetings to make way for resumed six-party talks,”
he said, referring to a dialogue that is aimed at persuading
North Korea to relinquish its nuclear-weapons program and
includes the U.S.,  China ,  Japan  and  Russia .  South Korea ordered a “low-level” alert after Kim Jong
Il’s death was announced and expressed “sympathy” with the
North Korean people, while limiting the number of its citizens
who could travel to Pyongyang on condolence visits. Lee said the
measures were meant to signal that his country wasn’t hostile
toward the North, while Pyongyang issued threats of
“unpredictable catastrophic consequences” over the South’s
restrictions on visits.  Warship Sinking  Tensions on the Korean peninsula erupted into open conflict
in March 2010, when 46 South Korean sailors were killed in the
sinking of the Cheonan warship. An international panel blamed
the attack on North Korea, which has denied the allegations.
Eight months later, the North shelled an island in the  Yellow
Sea , killing four South Koreans.  North Korea, which has twice detonated a nuclear device,
has more than 250  long-range artillery installations  along the
world’s most fortified border in reach of the Seoul area and its
23 million citizens. North Korea and South Korea remain
technically at war after their 1950-1953 conflict ended in a
cease-fire.  South Korea plans to set up a fund to raise as much as 55
trillion won to pay for the costs of eventual reunification with
the North, South Korean Unification Minister Yu Woo Ik said in
an October interview. Yu said the cost may be as high as 269
trillion won, or almost a quarter of South Korea’s 2010 gross
domestic product.  While North Korea’s statement yesterday was its most
belligerent since Kim Jong Il’s death, an attack is unlikely and
it is focused mainly on food aid, said Kim Yong Hyun, a
professor of North Korean studies at  Dongguk University  in
Seoul.  “They want resumption of six-party talks more than
anything because that’s the only way to get aid that is so
crucial,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net ;
John Brinsley at 
 jbrinsley@bloomberg.net  