-- Nasdaq Gets Court Approval to Delist Chinese Wind Tower Maker CleanTech
-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 2011-12-31T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-30/nasdaq-delisting-of-chinese-wind-tower-maker-authorized-by-federal-judge.html
Nasdaq  Stock Market won a federal
judge’s permission to delist a Chinese maker of wind towers over
its objection that the procedures for kicking it out are marred
by bias.  U.S. District Judge Richard J. Sullivan yesterday lifted
the restraining order imposed against Nasdaq by  New York  State
Supreme Court Justice Melvin Schweitzer on Dec. 20. Sullivan
also denied a request by CleanTech Innovations Inc., based in
Tieling,  China , that he impose his own temporary restraining
order.  “The court finds that the state court lacked jurisdiction
to enter a temporary restraining order in a matter arising
under” the federal  securities law , Sullivan wrote in his order.
The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on Dec. 28 also
denied CleanTech’s request for a stay, which the company can
appeal to the federal court rather than the court imposing its
own restraining order, Sullivan said.  CleanTech has been fighting removal since January, when
Nasdaq asserted that the company, which makes towers for  wind
turbines , intentionally withheld material information about $20
million in financing during its listing application. The company
says it provided all necessary information in a timely manner.  CleanTech has retained as counsel former U.S. Senator  Arlen Specter , who represented  Pennsylvania  as a Republican before
becoming a Democrat in 2009.  ‘Discriminatory Actions’  “Judge Sullivan’s ruling is a technical procedural ruling
that doesn’t touch on the substance of the discriminatory
actions by Nasdaq against China-based reverse-merger
companies,” Blair Fensterstock, a lawyer for CleanTech, said in
a phone interview. “The company intends to take every action
possible to pursue the discriminatory actions of Nasdaq and its
staff.”  CleanTech alleged the exchange violated its own rules and
the company’s right to due process in “arbitrarily and
capriciously” seeking to remove it. Nasdaq’s practices are
“racially motivated” and “blatantly discriminatory,” aimed
at delisting Chinese companies, according to the complaint.  “The staff made it clear that they were looking through a
different scope at China-based companies and that whether or not
a company and or its advisers had a good reputation was
irrelevant,” Fensterstock said.  Auditor Resignations  The court action is part of the fallout from a series of
cases alleging fraud involving China-based companies. Chinese
shares trading in the U.S. have lost more than $10 billion in
market value this year after companies such as  Longtop Financial
Technologies Ltd. (LGFTY)  and  China MediaExpress Holdings Inc. (CCME)  disclosed
financial irregularities or auditor resignations.  Concern has focused on the more than 400 Chinese businesses
that have used reverse mergers -- buying public shell companies
to gain stock market listings in  North America  while avoiding
the scrutiny of an initial public offering.  The SEC in June  cautioned  investors about buying stakes in
reverse merger companies, saying they may be prone to “fraud
and other abuses.” From 2005 to 2010, Nasdaq approved the
listing of more than 55 Chinese reverse mergers, according to a
tally by Bloomberg News.  Nasdaq approved CleanTech’s listing in December 2010 and
issued a delisting notice a month later, saying the company
intentionally failed to disclose material information about
bridge financing of $20 million that it received in December,
just after the listing.  CleanTech has responded that it had no idea when or whether
Nasdaq would approve the listing and that it disclosed the
transaction as required without withholding any information.  The case is  Cleantech Innovations Inc. (CTEK)  v. Nasdaq Stock
Market LLC, 11-cv-9358, U.S. District Court, Southern District
of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in  Brooklyn , New York, federal court at
   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 