-- States Seek Internet Lottery Jackpots After U.S. Legal Ruling
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2011-12-30T05:00:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-30/new-york-leads-states-seeking-internet-lottery-jackpots-after-u-s-ruling.html
Buying a lottery ticket may soon be
no more difficult than clicking a computer mouse, and U.S.
states grappling with budget deficits are seeking to cash in.  From  California (STOCA1)  to  New York (STONY1) , lotteries that already account
for $56 billion in annual sales are considering expanding to the
Internet after the U.S.  Justice Department  ruled that it’s legal
to sell tickets on the Web to local residents. In  New York , that
may mean selling so-called virtual tickets on mobile phones or
computers.  Illinois (STOIL1)  next year will begin testing online sales of
Powerball and Mega Millions, two games offered by the  33-member
Multi-State Lottery Association .  “All state lotteries are looking at how we can expand our
base and sell tickets,” said Andi Brancato, a spokeswoman for
the  Michigan (STOMI1)  Lottery. Internet sales are “definitely in the mix
for everyone.”  Online tickets may bring much-needed revenue to states
facing a collective $31.9 billion budget gap in the next fiscal
year,  according  to a report by the  National Conference of State
Legislatures  in Denver. In 2010, Americans spent more than $4
billion to gamble online, up from $2.4 billion in 2003,
according to the American Gaming Association.  The Justice Department said a 40-year-old federal law that
prohibits wagering over telecommunication systems that cross
state or national borders doesn’t bar states from using the
Internet and outside processors to sell lottery tickets to their
adult residents. The ruling came in a  memo  responding to
requests for clarification of the statute from New York and
 Illinois .  Wire Act  The Wire Act “prohibits only the transmission of
communications related to bets or wagers on sporting events or
contests,” Assistant Attorney General Virginia Seitz, who heads
the department’s Office of Legal Counsel, wrote in the Sept. 20
memo, which was released Dec. 23.  Lottery officials will now feel freer to set up online
games and perhaps join other states on  Internet sales , said
Joseph Kelly, a professor of business law at Buffalo  State
College  in New York and consultant for the gambling industry.  “It could be very important for the states,” Kelly said.  Cash-strapped states already have increased efforts to
maximize lottery sales after income from the games fell for the
first time in more than a decade in 2009, according to census
data. Moves by states such as  Arizona , which held focus groups,
increased jackpots and boosted its advertising budget, have paid
off.  Of the 43 states with lotteries, 26 saw revenue grow in
traditional games in the last fiscal year, with total sales up 3
percent to $56 billion, according to Rockville, Maryland-based
lottery research firm  La Fleur’s .  Casino Gambling  Some states are also looking to expand traditional
gambling. Massachusetts Governor  Deval Patrick  signed
legislation Nov. 22 authorizing as many as three resort casinos.
New York Governor  Andrew Cuomo  is pressing lawmakers to approve
a constitutional amendment making Las Vegas-style casinos legal
in the Empire State. Both governors are Democrats.  It will be at least two years before New York voters can
approve a gambling amendment, and the state is looking for ways
to expand its lottery to catch extra revenue.  According to New York’s December 2009 letter to the Justice
Department, a new computer system will allow adult residents to
buy tickets online and then pick them up at a retail location.
Other tickets will be “virtual,” delivered over the Internet
to computers or mobile phones, the letter said.  Internet Poker  The system, completed last year, will build on a
subscription program for Lotto and Mega Millions introduced in
2005, Carolyn Hapeman, a New York Lottery spokeswoman, said in a
telephone interview.  “We are trying to digest what the decision means,”
Hapeman said.  California  is also reviewing the ruling, said Russ Lopez, a
spokesman for the state lottery.  The  District of Columbia (STODC1)  is rolling out a program that
would allow users to play poker or slot-like games at Internet
“hot spots” operated by D.C. Lottery around the city. Last
week,  Nevada (STONV1) ’s gaming commission agreed to allow online poker in
the state, which includes  Las Vegas .  Illinois (STOIL1)  will begin testing online sales of Powerball, Mega
Millions and Lotto tickets by the second quarter, Michael Jones,
the lottery superintendent, said in a telephone interview.  Internet sales could attract 300,000 to 500,000 new
customers “who philosophically support the lottery but blow
right past” ticket outlets at  convenience stores , Jones said.
That may create “hundreds of millions of dollars” in revenue,
he said.  The real jackpot won’t be in ticket sales; it will be when
states offer Internet poker and video slots online, Frank Fahrenkopf, president of the gaming association, a Washington,
based group representing casinos.  “It’s now clear that not only can lotteries sell tickets
online, but also games that look like  slot machines  and poker,”
Fahrenkopf said in a telephone interview. “That’s where they
want to go.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Freeman Klopott in Albany at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  