-- Mead Johnson Increases as Baby Illnesses Not Linked to Formula
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g   a n d   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n
-- 2012-01-03T13:36:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-30/no-connection-to-mead-johnson-baby-formula-in-illnesses-regulators-report.html
Mead Johnson Nutrition Co. (MJN) , maker of
the world’s best-selling baby formulas, gained in early trading
after U.S. regulators said they hadn’t found a connection
between infant illnesses and the company’s products.  Mead Johnson rose 4.6 percent to $71.90 at 8:30 a.m. New
York time. The Glenview, Illinois-based company’s shares
increased 10 percent in 2011.  Retailers pulled Mead Johnson’s Enfamil nutrition formula
from shelves last month after regulators said a Missouri infant
who had been infected with the bacterium Cronobacter and died
had used the product. Tests conducted by the company didn’t find
bacteria in the batch of formula used by the Missouri infant.
Cronobacter also killed a baby in  Florida  and sickened two
babies in  Illinois  and Oklahoma, regulators said Dec. 30.  “Based on test results to date, there is no need for a
recall of  infant formula ” and parents may continue to use it
according to instructions on the label, the  Food and Drug
Administration  and  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention 
said in a joint statement. The FDA hasn’t found evidence that
any contamination from Cronobacter occurred during manufacturing
or shipping, the agencies said.  “Shares should bounce nicely on this news, but it could
take some time for the stock to fully recover,” Edward Aaron,
an analyst with  RBC Capital Markets , wrote in a research note
today. “Ultimately, we see this as an opportunity to own the
same great growth story at a cheaper valuation.”  Genetic Differences  CDC tests on the  Cronobacter germs  that infected the babies
in  Missouri  and Illinois showed the bacteria differ genetically,
suggesting that the two cases aren’t related, the agencies said.
Bacteria from the Oklahoma and Florida cases, brought to the
agency’s attention after the other two incidents were
publicized, aren’t available for analysis, they said.  The CDC found Cronobacter in samples, provided by Missouri
health officials, from an open container of the  powdered infant
formula , an open bottle of nursery water and prepared infant
formula in the case of the baby who had died.  “It is unclear how the contamination occurred,” the
agencies said. “The FDA tested factory sealed containers of
powdered infant formula and nursery water with the same lot
numbers as the opened containers collected from Missouri, and no
Cronobacter bacteria were found.”  Mead Johnson’s shares had dropped 15 percent on Dec. 22 and
Dec. 23 after retailers such as Wal-Mart Stores Inc. pulled
Enfamil. Dianna Gee, a spokeswoman for Bentonville, Arkansas-
based Wal-Mart, didn’t return a call made before the beginning
of business hours on whether the product had been returned to
store shelves.  No Disclosure  Regulators didn’t disclose what brands of formula were
connected to the infant infections in  Oklahoma  and Florida.
Federal and state health officials have been investigating
multiple possible causes of the illnesses, not just formula.  The bacterium, commonly found in the environment, hospitals
and homes, can multiply in powdered formula after the product is
mixed with water, the FDA and CDC said.  The Enfa brands, which include Enfamil, accounted for 79
percent of Mead Johnson’s $3.14 billion in  2010 revenue (MJN)  and were
the world’s best-selling baby formulas, the company said in a
February filing.  The FDA inspected Mead Johnson’s plant in Zeeland,
 Michigan , that manufactures Enfamil, the company said Dec. 28.  Cronobacter-related illnesses are rare and can cause severe
blood infections or meningitis in infants. While the CDC
typically learns of about four to six Cronobacter infections a
year, 12 cases have been reported in 2011 “with recent
increased awareness,” the agencies said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Drew Armstrong in Washington at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;
Molly Peterson in Washington at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  