-- N. Korea Threatens South, Indicates No Changes
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2011-12-30T03:22:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-30/north-korea-threatens-south-tells-world-expect-no-change-from-kim-jong-un.html
North Korea  told “the world’s
foolish politicians” to expect no change from the new regime
headed by Kim Jong Un and threatened a “sea of fire” for South
Korean President  Lee Myung Bak ’s administration.  Lee had provoked North Korea by raising security alerts and
declining to send an official mission to pay condolences over
the death of  Kim Jong Il , the National Defense Commission said
in a statement carried by the state-run Korean Central News
Agency today.  “The world will witness how millions of North Korean
people, who transformed sadness to courage and tears to strength
under the pillar of the great leader Kim Jong Un, will achieve
final victory,” the commission said in the statement.  South Korea  announced a “low-level” alert after news of
Kim’s death was released and expressed “sympathy” with the
North Korean people, while limiting the number of its citizens
who could travel to Pyongyang on condolence visits. Lee said the
measures were meant to signal that his country wasn’t hostile
toward the North, while the regime in Pyongyang issued threats
of “unpredictable catastrophic consequences” over the South’s
restrictions on visits.  Kim Jong Un, thought to be 28 or 29, yesterday stood on a
balcony above Pyongyang’s Kim Il Sung Square, named for his
grandfather, where tens of thousands of people gathered to hear
eulogies ending a period of national mourning for his father.  North Korea is expected to release a New Year message Jan.
1, in the form of an editorial carried by local newspapers and
the state-run Korean  Central News Agency . In his address on Jan.
2, South Korea’s Lee will focus on inter-Korean relations,
inflation and unemployment, according to an official in Lee’s
office who spoke on condition of anonymity.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brett Miller at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  