-- Obama’s War-Ending Promise Kept as Voters Pay Little Attention
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   J o h n   W a l c o t t
-- 2011-12-30T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-30/obama-s-war-ending-campaign-promise-kept-as-voters-pay-little-attention.html
While President  Barack Obama  takes
credit for keeping a 2008 campaign promise by ending the war in
Iraq this month and pledges to wind down the war in  Afghanistan 
by 2014, foreign policy offers a less certain election weapon.  Questions about whether the wars were worth the cost are
growing amid rising turmoil in Iraq and violence in Afghanistan
and uncertainty about  Pakistan  as a U.S. ally or adversary.  The president touts the killings of Osama bin Laden and
other al-Qaeda leaders on his watch, his approach to uprisings
in Tunisia and Egypt and the NATO air campaign that helped oust
 Libya ’s Muammar Qaddafi as evidence of his leadership.  Still, a Pew poll conducted Dec. 7-11 found that 55 percent
of Americans view the economy and related issues such as
unemployment as the most important matters facing the nation. In
that survey of 1,521 adults, just 6 percent said foreign issues,
including war, are most important.  “President Obama has a strong footing on foreign policy
because of the string of victories that have happened over the
past year -- if nothing else occurs,” said Ron Bonjean, a
Republican political consultant who was communications director
for former House Speaker Dennis Hastert. “However, it’s an
extremely volatile environment.”  Former Massachusetts Governor  Mitt Romney , former House
Speaker Newt Gingrich of Georgia and other Republicans have
begun to test Obama’s vulnerability on the military and national
security front as they jockey with one another for their party’s
2012 presidential nomination. They question the durability of
U.S. gains in  Iraq  and Afghanistan, as well as Obama’s
willingness to confront Iran,  North Korea , Syria, Pakistan and
 China .  ’Political Calculation’  Romney called the Iraq withdrawal under Obama an
“astonishing failure to secure an orderly transition,” in an
Oct. 21 statement, and accused Obama of “naked political
calculation or simply sheer ineptitude.”  Administration officials acknowledge that Iraq’s and
Afghanistan’s futures are uncertain, and that despite the deaths
of bin Laden and other terrorist leaders in Pakistan, Yemen and
Somalia, new attacks on Americans abroad or at home are
possible.  White House press secretary  Jay Carney  said on Dec. 21 that
“we certainly expect that there will be difficult days ahead in
Iraq. But the progress has been substantial. What is utterly
nonsensical is the suggestion that somehow we should have left
troops in there, and that would have had any impact on the
political disputes.”  Obama’s Argument  Administration officials also are betting that voters won’t
blame Obama for any worsening turmoil in Iraq or Afghanistan.
The Status of Forces Agreement that called for an American troop
withdrawal by the end of this year was negotiated under former
President  George W. Bush , the Iraqi parliament refused to extend
immunity to U.S. troops into next year and Americans want out of
both countries, they argue.  The Bush administration sent too few troops into Iraq in
2003 and then pitched that country into greater turmoil by
disbanding the Iraqi Army and Saddam Hussein’s Ba’ath Party
against the counsel of their own advisers, said an Obama
administration national security official.  In Afghanistan, added the official, who agreed to discuss
foreign policy and partisan politics only on the basis of
anonymity, it was the Bush administration that 10 years ago
failed to capture or kill  bin Laden  and mired the U.S. in a
costly, uphill nation-building project.  The Iran Issue  Obama’s handling of Iran, which Defense Secretary Leon Panetta last week said may be able to build a nuclear weapon
within a year, and the Arab Spring uprisings are a different
matter, Republicans argue.  “If there’s anything on foreign policy they should be
talking about, it’s Iran,” Bonjean said. “Iran is different.
Iran is President Obama’s weak spot” because Republicans can
argue that Obama initially approached the Islamic Republic with
“kid gloves.” That emboldened the country’s militant Islamic
rulers, and the economic sanctions the U.S. has imposed aren’t
doing enough to halt Iran’s nuclear weapons program, he said.  Moreover, Republicans argue, the recent beatings of
protesters in  Egypt , where Obama pushed for former President
Hosni Mubarak’s departure earlier this year, underscore the
uncertainties about new governments taking shape in the  Middle
East  and North Africa and the potential threats to  Israel .  In a May 19 speech, Romney charged that Obama “has thrown
Israel under the bus,” in part by arguing that month that the
country’s pre-1967 borders should be the starting point for
negotiations between Israel and the Palestinians.  ‘Timid and Weak’  Addressing a Republican Jewish group in  Washington  on Dec.
7, the party’s presidential candidates said Obama has coddled
Iran, emboldened terrorist groups and bestowed more sympathy on
Palestinians than Israelis. Romney said Obama has made a “timid
and weak” response to Iran’s nuclear threat and “immeasurably
set back” chances for Middle East peace.  “This one-sided, continuing pressure that says it’s always
the Israelis’ fault no matter how bad the other side is has got
to stop,” Gingrich said.  Gingrich and former Pennsylvania Senator Rick Santorum are
arguing for covertly “taking out” Iranian nuclear scientists -
- Gingrich in a Nov. 12 debate and Santorum before the
Republican Jewish Coalition on Dec. 7.  A Bloomberg poll of 1,097 global investors, conducted Dec.
5-6, said 65 percent of investors expect a military strike
against Iran’s nuclear program at some point.  Obama and his aides are pushing back against Republican
criticism.  Support for Israel  “Ask  Osama bin Laden  and the 22-out-of-30 top al Qaeda
leaders who’ve been taken off the field whether I engage in
appeasement,” Obama said in a Dec. 8 news conference. “Or
whoever is left out there, ask them about that.”  Addressing a national conference of Reform Judaism on Dec.
16, Obama said that “no U.S. administration has done more in
support of Israel’s security than ours. None. Don’t let anybody
tell you otherwise. It is a fact.”  He listed U.S. aid for Israel to develop a missile system,
diplomatic intervention to protect Israeli embassy staff in
Cairo in September against a mob, opposition to a Palestinian
bid for statehood through the UN and imposing new sanctions
against Iran. “We will take no options off the table,”
regarding Iran, he said.  Despite uncertainties that now extend from  Tunisia  to North
Korea and even Russia now, it isn’t clear whether foreign policy
can be a winning issue for Republicans in 2012.  Fumbles and Flip-Flops  Although Gingrich touts his experience as a military
strategist, none of the Republican candidates except Jon Huntsman, a former U.S. ambassador to China, has extensive
foreign affairs credentials. Some of the Republicans have
fumbled basic questions on major issues and several have taken
contradictory positions or made unsupported claims,  Senator Richard Lugar of Indiana, ranking Republican on the
Senate Foreign Relations Committee, said a Romney op-ed in The
Washington Post attacking a pending arms control treaty
“repeats discredited objections and appears unaware of arms
control history and context.”  Texas  Governor Rick Perry called North Korea’s recently
deceased leader Kim Jong-il “Jong” instead of Kim, his family
name; former candidate Herman Cain said China is trying to
develop nuclear weapons -- it first tested one on October 16,
1964 -- and he stumbled when asked if he supported Obama’s Libya
policy.  Gingrich on Oct. 21 told a group of Florida pastors that
Obama was “right” to withdraw U.S. troops from Iraq. Two days
later, he called the move “a decisive defeat for the U.S. in
Iraq” at the Iowa Faith & Freedom Coalition’s candidate forum.  The 1 Percent  Michael Dimock, associate director of the Pew Research
Center in Washington, said Americans widely supported getting
out of Iraq and killing bin Laden and are more supportive than
not of Obama’s approaches to Afghanistan and the Arab Spring.  Three-fourths of Americans backed Obama’s decision to end
the Iraq war by year’s end, while 21 percent disapproved in a
Gallup Poll of 992 adults conducted Oct. 29-30. While Americans
cited the war as the nation’s top issue from 2004 to 2008,
Gallup found that 1 percent of Americans now consider Iraq the
most important matter.  On Libya, 49 percent of Americans approved of Obama’s
handling of the situation, compared with 32 percent who
disapproved, in a Pew poll of 1,001 adults conducted Sept. 1-4.
At the same time, though, the percentage of Americans who said
they were following Libya closely had dropped to 17 percent by
late August from 37 percent in April.  What voters want on Iran is harder to measure, Dimock said,
and so far, North Korea’s future or uncertainty in Egypt and
Syria are not driving concerns for voters, although that could
change depending on events largely beyond U.S. control.  Economy Above All  If Iraq falls apart, and if U.S. voters think they could be
affected, Dimock said, there could be “some discussion of
whether we did get our troops out too quickly.”  President George H.W. Bush’s re-election loss in 1992,
despite a stellar Gallup Poll rating of 89 percent during the
Persian Gulf War in February 1991, is “a testament to how much
a bad economy can outweigh everything else,” Dimock said.  George Edwards, a political science professor at Texas A&M
University in College Station, Texas, said that while the
economy will be central to the 2012 election, voters’ views on
Obama’s competency on national security could make a difference
on the margins and shape overall impressions of his leadership.  “To the extent his foreign policy stewardship contributes
to a perception of him being competent and strong, and I think
it does, that helps,” Edwards said in a telephone interview.  “It’s an issue he should campaign on,” said Richard Danzig, a former Navy secretary under President Bill Clinton and
an Obama campaign surrogate on national security issues.  Isolationism Rising  “This issue cuts quite strongly for him, and the more
attention there is to it, I think the better it is for the
president,” said Danzig, adding that he was not speaking in his
capacity as chairman of the board for the Center for a New
American Security, a policy center in Washington.  How much attention voters are paying to foreign policy
isn’t clear, though. In Iowa, Texas Representative Ron Paul has
climbed in the polls and could win next week’s caucuses with a
platform that includes abolishing all foreign aid, including to
Israel, bringing all American troops home from abroad and
dismissing a nuclear-armed Iran as a threat to the U.S..  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Margaret Talev  in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 