-- Obama Will Delay Debt-Limit Increase Request, Official Says
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2011-12-30T20:38:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-30/obama-will-delay-debt-limit-increase-request-official-says-2-.html
President  Barack Obama , at the
request of both houses of Congress, will delay a request to
increase the U.S. debt limit by $1.2 trillion in order to
accommodate lawmakers’ schedules, White House principal deputy
press secretary  Josh Earnest  said today.  “The Budget Control Act provides that the president may
submit a written certification to Congress when the debt,
subject to limit, is within $100 billion of the  debt limit (DEBTDTLM) ,”
Earnest told reporters in Honolulu, where Obama is vacationing
with his family.  “The Treasury Department expects that the debt will be
within $100 billion of the limit by the close of business today,
and therefore we had anticipated submitting a certification to
Congress later today,” he said. “However, we have been asked
by bicameral leadership of Congress to delay certification in
order to give both houses time to consider when votes may
occur.”  Legislation approved in August after an impasse between
Obama and the Republican-controlled House on raising the debt
ceiling gives Congress 15 days to pass a joint resolution
disapproving any increase in the limit. The president can veto
such a measure and he would do so, if both chambers of Congress
passed a disapproval resolution, according to an administration
official who spoke on the condition of anonymity  A disapproval resolution stands little chance of passing in
the Senate, which is controlled by Democrats.  Accounting Methods  The Treasury Department will rely on accounting maneuvers,
similar to the ones employed during the year’s earlier dispute
to ensure that the current $15.194 trillion limit isn’t
breached. Obama will delay his request by days, not weeks,
said the official.  Because Congress won’t be in session in the next 15 days,
Obama agreed to the joint request from Senate Majority Leader
 Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, and House Speaker  John Boehner ,
an Ohio Republican. The  House of Representatives  is scheduled to
return on Jan. 17 and the Senate plans to reconvene on Jan. 23.  “The administration is in discussions with leaders in both
houses to determine the best timing for submission of the
certification and any subsequent votes in the two houses,”
Earnest said.  Raised Twice  Since the Budget Control Act of 2011 was approved, the debt
limit has been raised twice, by a total of $900 billion. When
Obama makes his $1.2 trillion request, the limit would rise to
$16.394 trillion, which the Treasury Department expects to fund
the government until late 2012.  In the last certification vote, the House passed a
resolution of disapproval while the Senate didn’t.  “Our members want to vote on the resolution of disapproval
provided in the Budget Control Act,” said  Brendan Buck , a
spokesman for Boehner. “It was our preference not to call
members back early to do so,” Buck said, adding that the House
leader “would have if the timing of the submission required
it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hans Nichols in Honolulu at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  