-- Lockheed Gets $1.96 Billion UAE Order for Missile Interceptors
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m   a n d   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2011-12-30T22:09:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-30/lockheed-gets-1-96-billion-uae-order-for-missile-interceptors.html
Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  received a
$1.96 billion contract from the Pentagon to supply the United
Arab Emirates with a missile defense system.  The order is for two Terminal High Altitude Area Defense or
Thaad systems that include interceptors, launchers and radar,
the  Pentagon (USBODEFN)  said in an announcement today.  The interceptors are a centerpiece of the regional defense
that President Barack Obama’s administration plans to deploy in
the  Middle East  against Iran’s medium- and long-range ballistic
missiles. Batteries of land-based interceptors would be linked
with the U.S. Navy’s detection and control systems on Aegis-
class destroyers and cruisers.  The UAE is the first international buyer for the Thaad
system. When the sale was first proposed for congressional
approval in September 2008, the Pentagon said the deal would be
valued at as much as $6.95 billion if all options were
exercised. In August 2010, the UAE scaled back its program by
about one-third to 96 interceptors from 144.  The interceptors are produced in Troy, Alabama, and the
fire control equipment and launchers are made in Camden,
Arkansas. Lockheed Martin is based in Bethesda, Maryland.  Raytheon Co. (RTN) , of Waltham, Massachusetts, provides the
radar, and  Honeywell Inc. (HON) , of Morris Township,  New Jersey , makes
the missile’s mission computer. Aerojet, part of  GenCorp Inc. (GY) ,
based in Rancho Cordova, California, makes the Thaad rocket
motor. The U.S. subsidiary of the U.K.’s  BAE Systems Plc (BA/) 
produces the missile seeker.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in  Washington  at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net .
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 Msilva34@bloomberg.net  