-- Oil Heads for Third Yearly Gain
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2011-12-30T13:30:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-30/oil-heads-for-third-yearly-gain-on-iran-tension-u-s-economy-speculation.html
Crude futures headed for a third
yearly advance on speculation escalating tension in the  Middle
East  may disrupt supplies as a recovery in the U.S. economy
bolsters demand.  West Texas Intermediate futures lost as much as 0.8 percent
today after gaining yesterday when U.S. jobless claims fell to a
three-year low. A U.S. State Department spokeswoman yesterday
called Iran’s threats to shut the Strait of Hormuz “irrational
behavior.” About one-sixth of global supply travels through the
seaway. The country faces sanctions on its crude exports and a
possible boycott by European buyers.  “The geopolitical  risk premium  will support higher prices
at the outset of 2012,” said Thina Saltvedt, an analyst at
Nordea Bank AB in Oslo. “I expect prices to increase at the
start of next week as the tension increases in the world’s most
vital oil-producing area.”  Crude for February delivery was at $99.05 a barrel, down 60
cents, on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange as of 1:18 p.m.
London time. Futures advanced 8.2 percent this year, after
climbing 15 percent in 2010.  Brent for February settlement was at $106.86 a barrel, down
$1.15 on the London-based ICE Futures Europe Exchange, and
heading for a 13 percent increase this year. The European
contract’s premium to New York crude was $7.80.  Crude surged to the highest in more than two years in May,
trading at $114.83 in New York after a popular uprising in
 Tunisia  sparked similar protests across the Middle East and
North Africa. Clashes in  Libya  between rebels and forces loyal
to then-leader  Muammar Qaddafi  cut off more than 1.5 million
barrels a day of oil exports from the country.  IEA Release  A meeting of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries broke down June 8 when six members, including  Iran  and
Venezuela, opposed a Saudi Arabian-led push to supply more oil
to compensate for lost Libyan output. The  International Energy
Agency  responded with a coordinated release of 60 million
barrels of emergency oil stockpiles on June 23.  Prices gave up the year’s gains by August amid concern the
U.S. economic recovery was stalling and speculation that Libya
would resume oil production faster than expected after Qaddafi’s
ouster that month. New York crude slipped to $74.95 on Oct. 4,
the lowest in a year, as Europe’s escalating debt crisis sapped
confidence in the health of the global economy.  Iran, Confidence  An improving economic outlook in the U.S., combined with
the escalation of tension in the Middle East, has taken prices
back above $100 a barrel this month and last, even as  Europe ’s
debt crisis threatens to plunge the region into recession and
 China  shows signs of weaker growth.  Iranian Vice President Mohammad Reza Rahimi issued a
warning to shut the Straits of Hormuz in a Dec. 27 report
published by the state-run  Islamic Republic News Agency . About
15.5 million barrels of oil a day passes through the waterway
between Iran and Oman at the mouth of the Persian Gulf,
according to the U.S. Energy Department.  “We’ve seen quite a bit of irrational behavior from Iran
recently,” said  Victoria Nuland , a State Department
spokeswoman, when asked yesterday about Iran’s threats. “One
can only guess the sanctions are beginning to pinch.”  The country pumped 3.56 million barrels a day of crude in
November, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, making it the
second-largest producer in OPEC after  Saudi Arabia .  ‘Geopolitical Premium’  “For a country that relies so heavily on oil exports like
Iran does, it’s obviously not something that they would do
lightly,” said Land. “But certainly the threat of it is enough
to add back the geopolitical premium we’re seeing.”  Prices may rise next week amid Iran’s threat, a Bloomberg
News survey showed. Thirteen of 32 analysts, or 41 percent,
forecast oil will increase through Jan. 6. Ten respondents, or
31 percent, predicted prices will decrease and nine estimated
there will be little change.  Oil also gained earlier today on signs the  U.S. economy  is
weathering Europe’s debt crisis. The four-week moving average
for jobless claims dropped to 375,000 last week, the lowest
level since June 2008, Labor Department data showed in
 Washington  yesterday.  “At this stage, WTI looks like it’s found a fairly
comfortable range at $95 to $100,” Land said. “If the U.S.
starts showing better-than-expected improvement, that would go a
long way to make the outlook for the global economy more rosy
than currently.”  Price Dislocation  Oil prices  in the U.S. and Europe became dislocated in 2011
as the loss of Libyan supplies, used primarily by refiners in
Europe, combined with a glut of crude at WTI’s delivery point in
Cushing,  Oklahoma , to push Brent to a record $28.08 a barrel
above New York futures on Oct. 14.  The premium has since narrowed more than 70 percent,
settling at $7.93 on Dec. 27, the lowest since January, after
Enbridge Inc. and Enterprise Products Partners LP said they
would reverse the 500-mile (805-kilometer) Seaway pipeline from
Cushing to refineries on the  Gulf Coast , opening an outlet to
clear supplies.  U.S. crude  inventories (DOESCRUD)  rose 3.9 million barrels to 327.5
million in the week ended Dec. 23, the Energy Department
reported. Supplies were forecast to drop 2.5 million barrels,
based on the median of 10 analyst estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey. Stockpiles at Cushing shrank to 29.9 million barrels,
the lowest since February 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ann Koh in Singapore at 
 akoh15@bloomberg.net ;
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  