-- Oil May Rise as Iran Threatens to Block Strait, Survey Shows
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2011-12-30T20:02:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-30/oil-may-rise-as-iran-threatens-to-block-strait-survey-shows.html
Oil may rise next week after  Iran ’s
threats to block the  Strait of Hormuz , a critical waterway for
shipping crude, a Bloomberg News survey showed.  Thirteen of 32 analysts, or 41 percent, forecast oil will
increase through Jan. 6. Ten respondents, or 31 percent,
predicted prices will decrease and nine estimated there will be
little change. Last week, 38 percent of surveyed analysts
expected a decline.  Futures surged to $101.77 a barrel on Dec. 27, the highest
intraday price since Dec. 7, after Iran’s official  Islamic
Republic News Agency  cited Vice President Mohammad Reza Rahimi
as saying the country would bar shipments through the strait if
sanctions are imposed on its oil exports.  “We will stay on the sidelines until next week when we
will be looking for a price advance back toward the $102 mark,”
 Jim Ritterbusch , president of Ritterbusch & Associates, a
Galena, Illinois-based consulting company, said in a report.  About 15.5 million barrels of oil a day, or a sixth of
global consumption, pass through the Strait of Hormuz between
Iran and Oman at the mouth of the  Persian Gulf , according to the
U.S. Energy Department. Iran’s navy started a 10-day exercise
east of the passage that involved the use of submarines, ground-
to-sea missile systems and torpedoes, Press TV said Dec. 24.  Crude oil for February delivery dropped 85 cents, or 0.9
percent, to $98.83 a barrel this week on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . Futures are up 8.2 percent this year.  The oil survey has correctly predicted the direction of
futures 48 percent of the time since its start in April 2004.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net  