-- On the Road to Delhi, India’s Economy Gets Real: Pankaj Mishra
-- B y   P a n k a j   M i s h r a
-- 2011-12-30T00:01:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-30/on-road-to-delhi-india-s-economy-gets-real-commentary-by-pankaj-mishra.html
A few years ago, one of  India ’s
private airlines started operating a flight from Delhi to the
Himalayan city of Shimla, a few miles from my village. The brisk
descent in a small turboprop aircraft isn’t for those with a
fear of flying. The runway on a table-top mountain seemed
particularly short last week, when the plane, breaking free of
the fog over Delhi, came down to a wintry Himalayan mist.  Still, cutting down journey times to a fraction, the flight
seemed too good to be true; and, having endured many very long
drives up and down winding mountain roads, I became one of its
keenest and more regular customers.  The airline was subsequently bought by  Kingfisher Airlines
Ltd. (KAIR) , one of the New India’s iconic corporate brands. Owned by
 Vijay Mallya , a man fond of horse racing and swimsuit calendars,
Kingfisher simply ran out of money earlier this year, reflecting
more broadly the troubles of most private airlines in India.
They are struggling despite the favor shown to them by the
government, which has systematically denuded the publicly owned
Air India Ltd.  The flight to Shimla was among those affected by
Kingfisher’s  drastic cost-cutting (KAIR) . So, a few weeks ago, I found
myself back on the road to Delhi with a couple of friends who
had been visiting me in the town of Mashobra.  Road Rage  In the 1990s, the drive would take eight hours. In 2009, it
took about 11, and this autumn it took almost 12. Stretches of
the road, especially those near small cities, resembled four-
lane highways anywhere in the world. Elsewhere, passing through
roadside settlements, the road shrank to a single lane; and here
the queues built up, the air grew thick with dust and exhaust,
and road rage erupted out of even the air-conditioned vehicles.  Construction sites were everywhere; but few signs existed
that the highway was on its way to completion. Piles of concrete
beams had been there long enough to allow grass to sprout from
their moldy surface. There was rust on the girders. The paint on
the signs surrounding the sites had faded; and, most
significantly, hardly anyone was working there.  Conceived at a time of confident prosperity, the roadworks
seemed to have been quietly abandoned; and people like myself,
who could afford to travel by air, had not noticed and were
unaffected.  The metaphor of highways has been deployed frequently to
describe India’s potential, most famously by Thomas Friedman,
who claimed in 2005 that India “is like a highway full of
potholes,” but “off in the distance, the road seems to smooth
out, and if it does, this country will be a dynamo.”  Like many other popular metaphors about India -- tiger,
elephant, cellphone -- this one isn’t wholly mistaken. Indian
highways rank highly among the infrastructure projects crucial
to sustaining the country’s rapid  economic growth (INQGGDPY) , which is
threatened by inflation, declining industrial production, a
weakening currency (the rupee has dropped about 15 percent
against the dollar this year) and corruption scandals that
implicate some of India’s most well-known politicians and
businessmen.  The question that Friedman asked in 2005 has grown more
urgent: “Is that smoother road in the distance a mirage or the
real thing?” Or, to put it differently: Did the perennial gap
between illusion and reality somehow widen imperceptibly in the
New India?  Education Racket  The answer to this question seemed obvious on the half-
built highway to Delhi. The most conspicuous sights along the
roadside were the placards for shiny new private educational
institutions. They seem -- if you have never been inside one or
met any of their alumni and looked only at the (misspelled)
signboards promising professional success -- to be hectically
preparing the basis for India’s “demographic dividend”: an
overwhelmingly youthful  population (WPOPINDI)  that will soon become
producers and consumers in the global economy.  In actuality, while most state-funded schools and colleges
are barely functional, private education in India is largely a
money-making racket. In September this year, a study of schools
in the biggest states discovered that India’s peers in adult
literacy are  Afghanistan  and  Papua New Guinea .  Hundreds of millions of poorly educated and unemployable
youth increasingly find themselves drawn to some peculiar forms
of entrepreneurship. Twice on the highway from Shimla to Delhi,
we were flagged down by groups of young men collecting “taxes.”  I have often come across these soft forms of banditry on
the country roads of  Uttar Pradesh  and Bihar, two of India’s
poorest and most populous states. The only difference here was
that the young men seemed better educated, more resourceful and
authoritative. One of the groups that stopped us near the Indian
capital, less than a mile from an authentic police checkpoint,
even had a jeep with the words “Delhi Municipal Toll” painted
on the windshield.  Bleak employment prospects and a general social breakdown -
- of morality no less than law and order -- were pushing them
into a career of crime. Their brazen modus operandi in one of
the country’s richest regions hinted that India’s “demographic
dividend” was more likely to boost crime rather than gross
domestic product.  For most of the previous decade, many Indians have been
spellbound by a vision of imminent national greatness, oblivious
to the basic fact that no country without a substantial
manufacturing base and skilled workforce has ever become an
economic superpower. A sense of unreality as profound as those
that overwhelmed the central planners of  Mao Zedong  and  Nikita Khrushchev  came to dictate discussions of the Indian economy.  Businessmen, just like the government, deceived themselves,
according to Rajiv Kumar, the secretary-general of the
Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry. “We
became complacent,” he told the Financial Times this month, “as
we started believing in the myth that in India there were
structural reasons that would keep growth above 7 percent for
good.”  Of course, businessmen are obliged to talk up their
prospects; boosterism of this sort helps money to circulate.
However, the shattered illusions of New India implicate more
deeply those journalists and commentators who made a fetish of
aggregate national wealth, using a few success stories to
generalize wildly.  There were those who deliberately avoided a sober reckoning
with Indian reality; but there were also many -- including
myself -- who did not probe them enough. It explains why such a
feeble ideological fantasy -- of an inexorably rising India --
could have beguiled so many people for so long.  (Pankaj Mishra, the author of “Temptations of the West: How to
Be Modern in India,  Pakistan ,  Tibet  and Beyond,” is a Bloomberg
View columnist, based in  London  and Mashobra, India. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Pankaj Mishra at  pmashobra@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net  