-- Knicks Fans Face Hoopless Nights in Time Warner Cable Program-Fee Fight
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2011-12-30T21:04:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-30/hoopless-nights-for-knicks-tv-fans-loom-in-time-warner-cable-s-fee-fight.html
Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  is set to
lose  Madison Square Garden Co. (MSG) ’s MSG Network in a dispute over
rising program costs, leaving millions of viewers without New
York Knicks and Rangers games.  MSG wants 53 percent more for its programming, according to
Melinda Witmer, an executive vice president at Time Warner
Cable. That would make the channel the most expensive sports
network in the U.S., she said. MSG Media President  Mike Bair 
calls that claim “categorically untrue.” The current deal
expires at 12 a.m. Jan. 1.  The dispute highlights growing tension over the cost of
televised sports. Heads of pay-TV services, including Time
Warner Cable’s Glenn Britt, DirecTV’s  Michael White  and  Dish
Network Corp. (DISH)  Chairman  Charlie Ergen  have all lamented the role
of sports in rising cable bills. If the two sides don’t reach a
deal, 2.8 million Time Warner Cable subscribers, mostly in the
New York area, will lose the network and MSG Plus.  “We have not had any recent, meaningful discussions with
Time Warner Cable,” Bair said. “We continue to urge fans to
find alternate providers.”  MSG Co. is controlled by New York’s Dolan family, which
also holds majority voting stakes in AMC Networks Inc., another
cable programmer, and  Cablevision (CVC)  Systems Corp.  MSG Co., which owns the Knicks and Rangers, has run ads
urging Time Warner Cable customers to switch to other services,
including  DirecTV (DTV)  and Verizon Communications Inc.’s FiOS.  “This is an old deal, and they are not in the ballpark of
what others are paying for our services,” Bair said. “All
we’re asking them to do is to reflect what the current market is
paying.”  Rising Bills  MSG and MSG Plus broadcast the National Basketball
Association’s Knicks and the National Hockey League’s Rangers,
 New Jersey Devils ,  New York Islanders  and Buffalo Sabres.  Britt, chief executive officer of New York-based Time
Warner Cable, told the Wall Street Journal this month that
sports networks should be sold separately from basic cable to
lower bills for customers who don’t care about athletics. MSG
and MSG Plus are part of the expanded basic package on Time
Warner Cable, the second-largest U.S. cable service.  Last month, White said the cost of sports was “one of our
single biggest challenges as an industry.” Ergen suggested one
large pay-TV service could stop carrying sports.  “There could be a day when one of the big providers just
doesn’t have a sports offering, so that they can differentiate
their programming in a major way,” Ergen said on Dish’s
November conference call.  Program Costs  Cable and satellite-TV operators pay more than $4.50 a
month per subscriber for MSG and MSG Plus, according to
researcher SNL Kagan.  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ESPN, the most expensive
cable network, charged an average of $4.69 a month in 2011 and
will fetch $5.06 in 2012, Kagan said.  MSG’s rates have increased more than 70 percent over the
past five years, according to Kagan. Time Warner Cable was
willing to pay 6 percent more in 2012, according to Witmer, who
said MSG was asking for “dollars more” than any other sports
network.  MSG’s current deal with Time Warner Cable was signed in
2005, according to Cablevision regulatory filings at the time.
DirecTV and FiOS have negotiated new agreements and agreed to
higher prices, Bair said.  Time Warner Cable added 0.8 percent to $63.57 at the close
in  New York  and has  lost (TWC)  3.7 percent this year. MSG Co. rose 0.3
percent to $28.64 and is up 11 percent in 2011.  Customer Losses  Time Warner Cable is betting few customers will cancel if
they lose Knicks and regional NHL games. The company said it
will provide replacement programming, without being more
specific.  Many Manhattan residents are unable to get satellite TV
because tall buildings obstruct signals, and not all buildings
are wired for FiOS or RCN Corp., a smaller cable provider that
serves certain areas of  New York City , according to David Joyce,
an analyst at New York-based Miller Tabak & Co.  “Time Warner Cable has the upper hand because it has
roughly one-third of MSG’s total viewers,” Joyce said. “MSG
would be hindered in viewership, advertising and affiliate fees
if Time Warner Cable drops it and stops paying.”  Counting other pay-TV systems, MSG network and MSG Plus
have about 8 million subscribers, primarily in New York,  New
Jersey  and  Connecticut , according to the company’s 2010 10-K
regulatory filing.  MSG Co. also owns Fuse. That network is watched by 0.6
percent of Time Warner Cable customers, according  Maureen Huff ,
a spokeswoman for the pay-TV service. MSG had told Time Warner
Cable the price will rise more than 53 percent if the company
refuses to carry Fuse, Witmer said. Time Warner Cable dropped
Fuse this month and doesn’t plan to bring it back, Witmer said.  “There will likely be some switching away from Time Warner
Cable,” said  Paul Sweeney , an analyst at Bloomberg Industries.
“In most cases, the cable provider caves and passes along the
price increase to consumers, so we’ll see.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  