-- Hospice Turns Months-to-Live Patient Into Years of Abusing Drugs
-- B y   P e t e r   W a l d m a n
-- 2011-12-30T05:02:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-30/hospice-turns-months-to-live-patient-into-years-of-abusing-drugs.html
Suffering from painful nerve damage
in his feet, Charles Groomes was prescribed a daily dose of 205
milligrams of Oxycontin and oxycodone in 2007. His doctor wrote
that it was the most he was comfortable prescribing -- more, he
said, than anyone without cancer should take.  After he was admitted to  hospice care  11 months later, his
painkillers were eventually increased to 2,880 milligrams, 14
times the pre-hospice levels. The hospice doctor forecast he had
six months to live at most. He was wrong.  Groomes was discharged from Horizons Hospice LLC in
Pittsburgh last year after 32 months. The legacy of the stay was
debilitating, according to his family and doctors who examined
him. He was depressed, addicted to narcotics and desperate. He
turned to four doctors and three hospices begging for more
drugs.  “This is a hospice case that spiraled out of control,”
said Aaron Smuckler, one of the doctors who saw him. Groomes,
who had a history of drug abuse, “clearly wasn’t dying” when
he was on hospice; he needed drug rehabilitation and cardiac
care, not more narcotics, Smuckler said.  Mary Stewart,  Horizons Hospice’s  director of operations,
declined to comment on Groomes’s care and didn’t respond to a
list of detailed questions.  Groomes died in his sleep at the age of 52 last August, 10
months after Horizons released him. It was also more than five
years after he was first told he had six months to live -- in an
earlier hospice admission in 2006.  Surviving Hospice  His story shows how lax admissions practices combined with
narcotics dispensing may add up to harmful side effects for
hospice patients, especially among those who survive their
stays. About 1.1 million people are enrolled in hospice care.  Although hospices are supposed to enroll only people who
they believe will be dead within 180 days, they often miss the
mark. About 21 percent of patients stay longer, the U.S.
 inspector general  responsible for Medicare reported in July, and
more than 200,000 are discharged alive each year. Some providers
are boosting revenue by flouting eligibility rules, federal
prosecutors say.  At the same time, the use of narcotics is central to the
mission of hospice care, which is to ease the pain of dying
patients.  “It’s the exceptional hospice patient who doesn’t see any
opioids,” said Mark Sullivan, a psychiatrist at the University
of  Washington  in  Seattle , referring to the powerful class of
narcotics that includes morphine, Oxycontin and oxycodone.  Hospice Drug Addiction  Drug addiction among those who leave hospices has become
more common in recent years, according to  Walter Ling , a
professor of psychiatry and director of the substance abuse
program at the  University of California  at  Los Angeles .
“Everybody who works in the drug rehabilitation field finds
these hospice cases,” Ling said.  “Hospices over-prescribe narcotics to patients who aren’t
in extreme pain,” said Jane Orient a physician and professor at
the  Oregon  Institute of Science and Medicine in Cave Junction,
Oregon. She said her family removed her father from an in-
patient hospice when it gave him morphine he didn’t need.  The discharge of 200,000 hospice patients raises the
question of whether they were really dying in the first place,
said Robert Berenson, a fellow at the  Urban Institute  and the
vice chairman of Medpac, an advisory commission to Congress on
health-care policy.  Potential for Neglect  “The potential for hospices to neglect these people, and
then abandon them when they don’t decline, is a major quality
challenge,” Berenson said. Told of the details of Groomes’s
case, he said it “may be the tip of a very big iceberg.”  It’s “wrong” to assume that everyone who survives hospice
was inappropriately admitted, said Jon Radulovic, a spokesman
for the  National Hospice and Palliative Care Organization , an
industry trade group.  Some patients are truly dying when they are enrolled, but
“respond very favorably” to care and become “somewhat
better,” Radulovic said. Other patients leave hospice because
they move away or defy their doctors’ expectations. Opioids are
“prevalent” in hospice care because they tend to be
inexpensive and highly effective in treating pain, he said.  More than half of hospice patients receive their care at
home, as Groomes did. Most others are at nursing homes or
hospitals. Nurses and hospice staffers visit an average of once
a day, research shows. Doctor visits are rarer -- once every 100
days or so, according to  Medicare  billing records.  ‘Caged Up’  Groomes’s wife and two of their four daughters say they saw
 Oliver Herndon , his hospice doctor, fewer than five times in the
almost three years Charles was last on hospice. Months would go
by when they didn’t see a nurse or home-health aide, either,
they said.  “They told him to stay in bed, relax,” said his daughter
Ashley, 17. “They kept him caged up in his room like an animal,
waiting for him to die.”  Herndon, through his lawyer, declined to comment or answer
questions about Groomes’s care.  Based on average daily reimbursement rates, Groomes’s two-
year stay at Horizons cost Medicare an estimated $100,000.
Medicare also paid for eight months at the beginning of his stay
at a now-defunct hospice where Herndon worked, which transferred
him to Horizons.  What happens to hospice survivors like Groomes, after
months or years of giving up curative care, has never been
comprehensively studied, said Russell Portenoy, chief of pain
medicine at Beth Israel Medical Center in  New York . “This is a
study that begs to be done,” he said.  For-Profit Discharges  The rate of live discharges is highest at for-profit
hospices, whose rapid growth in the past decade quadrupled
Medicare’s hospice bill between 2000 and 2010, to $13 billion a
year. More than one in five patients at for-profits are
discharged, compared with about one in eight at nonprofits,
according to a Harvard University  study  published this year.  For-profits also keep hospice patients longer -- an average
of 98 days versus 68 days at nonprofits. Under Medicare rules,
people can stay on hospice indefinitely, as long as a hospice
doctor recertifies, every 60 days, that they have a prognosis of
six months or less to live.  “The long lengths of stay and high rates of live
discharges suggest some hospices are signing up people who don’t
belong in hospice,” said Nancy Kane, a professor of health
policy at Harvard and a former member of Medpac. “Any time
there is money to be made, and you have this nebulous, gray area
around ‘who is terminal,’ you get manipulation by some
providers.”  Boat Captain’s Story  Robert Spain Jr., an unemployed boat captain, said his 10-
month stay in hospice care turned him into an addict. Spain was
admitted to a  Vitas Healthcare (CHE)  hospice in Jupiter,  Florida , at
the age of 56 in 2008, and diagnosed with terminal cirrhosis,
his medical records show. He acknowledges a prior history of
drug abuse.  Vitas, a unit of Chemed Corp. that is the nation’s largest
hospice operator, put Spain on 240 milligrams a day of morphine,
according to the records. That was stronger stuff than he had
ever been prescribed before, he said, and after a few months he
was feeling better and was puzzled why anyone thought he was
dying.  When he asked for tests, Vitas ordered a sonogram,
“reversed” Spain’s diagnosis to gallstones, and discharged him
in January 2009. Still jobless and living with his 86-year-old
dad,  Spain  said Vitas did nothing to help him get off the
narcotics. He still takes 180 milligrams a day of morphine
prescribed by a pain doctor.  Bar Bouncer  Spain was admitted appropriately to hospice and discharged
when he was no longer eligible, said Kal Mistry, Vitas’s
spokeswoman. Vitas “referred him to an appropriate care
intervention clinic” before discharge, she said.  Groomes met his wife, Donna, while he was working as a
bouncer for a bar in their hometown, Penn Hills,  Pennsylvania .
He spent most of his career working for his father’s business,
servicing fire extinguishers and indoor sprinkler systems, said
his daughter Austi, who is 22.  When she was a child he’d leave at dawn and return after 8
in the evening. The kids went to summer camp and every year
Charles would pack the family in the station wagon for a beach
trip to the  Jersey Shore  or the Carolinas.  Groomes’s wife said she and her husband started using
cocaine in 1996, when some childhood friends re-entered their
lives and smoked crack with them. Both parents became abusers,
according to Donna and Austi, and things got rough. There were
arguments about drugs. At times, the daughters were placed in
foster care, Austi said.  Heart Disease   In 2005, after years of heart disease, Groomes had a
defibrillator implanted in his chest to prevent cardiac arrest.
The next month an echocardiogram showed his heart’s  ejection
fraction  was 15 percent, meaning it was pumping blood at a
dangerously low rate. A normal ejection fraction exceeds 55
percent.  In a hospital in September that year, Groomes tested
positive for cocaine, twice. He wasn’t a model patient. He was
getting morphine “off the streets” and ignoring prescribed
dosages, according to his cardiologist’s notes.  By February 2006, Groomes had enrolled in the now-defunct
Trinity Hospice, where he became a patient of Herndon’s, said
Leslie Custer, Groomes’s nurse there. He withdrew from the
hospice in mid-2006 to explore a possible heart transplant.  Heart Strengthens  While doctors told Groomes he wasn’t a transplant
candidate, his heart was strengthening on its own. A test in
August 2006 revealed normal cardiac output, according to his
records. An echocardiogram in December 2006 showed an ejection
fraction of 35 percent to 40 percent, more than double the rate
15 months earlier.  Groomes also had severe pain in his feet, which doctors
diagnosed as diabetic neuropathy, or nerve damage. By March
2007, he was receiving Oxycontin and oxycodone via Albert
Carvelli, the doctor at the University of Pittsburgh Medical
Center whose notes described the dosages as the maximum he felt
comfortable with.  Even so, Groomes started running short of pain pills and
began asking Carvelli for more before his prescriptions were due
to run out, according to the doctor’s notes. After that happened
five visits in a row, Carvelli’s notes from February 2008 say he
told Groomes he needed to find another doctor or “we will start
to slowly wean him off his opioid” habit.  Back on Hospice  The next day, Groomes was re-admitted to Trinity Hospice,
with a terminal diagnosis of congestive heart failure. Herndon,
acting as the hospice medical director and Groomes’s attending
physician, tripled Groomes’s prescriptions for oxycodone and
Oxycontin, to a maximum dose of 600 milligrams a day, according
to Groomes’s medical records. Later, Herndon prescribed an
additional 1,680 milligrams a day of liquid morphine and
oxycodone for “breakthrough” pain, plus a 100-microgram patch
of Fentanyl, a potent narcotic, every 72 hours.  When Trinity shut down in late 2008 -- after the U.S.
Justice Department said it found evidence of “substantial”
Medicare losses from ineligible hospice admissions -- Herndon
took his patients to Horizons Hospice of Altoona, Pennsylvania,
according to Susan Seman, who was director of operations for
Trinity’s Pittsburgh office.  On Groomes’s hospice certification at Horizons, signed by
Herndon, the doctor wrote Groomes had a cardiac ejection
fraction of 10 percent, which hadn’t been the case since 2005,
according to the echocardiogram results in Groomes’s medical
records. An ejection fraction of less than 20 percent is a
Medicare criterion for hospice eligibility.  Hospice Extensions  Herndon noted the 10 percent ejection fraction in re-
certifications to extend Groomes’s stay that he signed as
Horizons’ medical director in 2010, copies of the documents
show. Herndon also cited other eligibility criteria, noting that
Groomes was bedbound and had chest pains and shortness of breath
after minimal exertion.  Groomes, 6-foot-6 (1.98 meters) and more than 300 pounds
(140 kilograms), was virtually an invalid after his re-admission
to hospice, deadened by drugs and terrified he’d keel over and
die if he left his bedroom, according to Donna, Austi and
Ashley. Groomes had gone on federal disability in 2004 for his
heart and pain conditions, Donna said.  He felt “worthless” for lying there, but the hospice
prognosis that he was dying destroyed his will to go on, she
said. In a “good-bye” video the hospice encouraged Groomes to
make, he sobbed uncontrollably and could hardly speak.  Donna didn’t leave her husband’s bedside, even as their
daughters “ran wild,” she said. Boyfriends came and went, and
the four girls had six babies in their teen years. Three were
born when their mothers were 16.  Medicare Coverage Expires  Three of the daughters developed their own addictions,
Donna said, and two have had scrapes with the law, including
Autumn, 25, now in jail for drunk driving.  Groomes told a Horizons counselor that one of his biggest
worries was that Donna would relapse and use cocaine again after
his death. Donna said in an interview that she has been clean
for seven years.  After more than two years waiting to die, Groomes received
a letter from Horizons saying his hospice coverage from Medicare
was ending. His hospice nurse said he was being discharged
because he wasn’t declining, Donna said. The family was told to
find a new doctor.  She and Austi begged Herndon’s office to keep Groomes as a
patient so the doctor could keep prescribing. His dependence on
drugs was so severe, they said, they feared a harmful withdrawal
without them. When the doctor’s assistants hung up on them,
Donna and Austi decamped to Herndon’s office to plead their
case, only to be told the doctor wasn’t around, Austi said.  Search for Medicine  “He had my dad on all those things, then basically shut
him off,” said Austi, who has an associate’s degree in criminal
justice and is unemployed. “He helped kill him.”  As Groomes’s medications were running out, Donna scrambled
on the Internet to find a doctor or hospice to take him on. Hope
Hospice, a Pittsburgh nonprofit, referred her to  Smuckler  at the
University of Pittsburgh Medical Center for an evaluation.
Smuckler made an 80-minute house call.  Groomes’s bedside table was strewn with pill bottles, while
his physical exam “was not consistent with someone who had such
a terrible cardiomyopathy,” Smuckler said, referring to the
heart muscle weakening. “He hadn’t had a primary-care physician
in four years. I wanted proof he had the conditions he had.”  ‘Not Terminal’  Blood tests showed his diabetes was well controlled and
other functions appeared normal, Smuckler said, “certainly not
the kinds of results you’d expect from a hospice patient.”
Smuckler referred Groomes to a cardiologist for tests, lowered
his narcotic dosage and recommended methadone to help taper off
the opioids.  After examining Groomes, cardiologist Jeff Krackow wrote in
a report that he may be bedbound “by his own choice” which has
made him “severely deconditioned” yet had no “compelling
indication for hospice,” and proposed re-evaluating him for a
heart transplant.  The cardiologist also suggested reactivating Groomes’s
defibrillator. Herndon and Horizon never had it turned back on
after it malfunctioned and shocked Groomes 15 times on a single
day in 2009, his hospice records show.  A workup in January this year confirmed what Smuckler and
Krackow had surmised: Groomes’s heart was fine. The ejection
fraction was 65 percent.  “He absolutely did not have a terminal diagnosis,”
Smuckler said.  Pattern Repeats  The next problem was returning Groomes to the living.
Groomes and his wife resisted Smuckler’s suggestions to try
physical and occupational therapy. They demanded more narcotics,
and after Groomes twice ran short of pills ahead of schedule,
Smuckler told the couple they’d have to see a pain clinic for
more.  “She infantilized him,” Smuckler said. “Every time he
twitched, she would medicate it.”  The pattern kept repeating in the next eight months.
Groomes went to a pain doctor, a neurologist, several emergency
rooms and two more hospices, seeking narcotics that he said he
needed for intractable pain. The question all of them asked,
Donna said, was how such a young man ever got to this point.  “No one qualified in palliative care should have ever
allowed Mr. Groomes to come back on hospice in 2008,” said
Cristen Krebs, executive director of the  Catholic Hospice of
Pittsburgh , who evaluated Groomes for hospice and reviewed his
medical records. “If he had terminal heart failure in 2006,
what was he doing standing there in front of them in 2008? His
cardiac status had improved, but they neglected to find out.”  Hope Runs Out  By August, Groomes lost hope, said his wife and daughters.
None of the doctors or hospices they’d seen would refill the
prescriptions Herndon wrote during 32 months in hospice. Groomes
prayed on the side of his bed to die, Ashley said. He told Donna
to “let him go,” she said. She urged him to hold on for a
group of specialists due at the house Aug. 16 for a patient
evaluation.  The team from  Family Hospice & Palliative Care , led by
physician MaryBeth Salama, spent 90 minutes examining Groomes
and reviewing his health history. They told Groomes he wasn’t
dying, so he couldn’t go back on hospice, according to Donna.
The bad news was he needed to learn to live with his pain.  Groomes died that night in his sleep. While his death
certificate says heart failure, Donna said she believes he may
have swallowed a bottle of 80-milligram Oxycontin pills that
went missing. There was no autopsy.  “The doctors failed us something terrible,” she said.
“This family went down in a whirlwind.”  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Peter Waldman in  San Francisco  at 
 pwaldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gary Putka at 
 gputka@bloomberg.net  