-- Emerging Stocks Index Set for Worst Year Since 2008
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 2011-12-30T21:53:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-30/most-emerging-stocks-fall-index-headed-for-first-annual-drop-since-2008.html
Emerging-market stocks rose, paring
the benchmark index’s first annual decline since 2008, as
better-than-estimated U.S. economic data outweighed concerns
over Europe’s debt crisis.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  gained 0.2 percent to
916.39 at the close in New York. The Shanghai Composite Index
climbed 1.2 percent, trimming its drop this year to 22 percent.
The  Micex Index (MICEX)  jumped 1.1 percent in Moscow. The  BUX Index (BUX)  slid
1.7 percent in Budapest as parliament approved a law that may
curb the central bank’s independence and threaten negotiations
on an international aid package.  MSCI’s emerging-markets index has slumped 20 percent this
year, while stocks in developed countries have fallen 7.6
percent. Data yesterday showed U.S. home sales rose more than
economists forecast and jobless claims dropped over the past
month to a three-year low. Spain said it will raise taxes and
cut spending to trim a  budget deficit  that will breach this
year’s target.  “The recession risk is significantly reduced” in the
U.S.,  Bob Parker , a senior adviser at Credit Suisse Asset
Management, said in an interview with Bloomberg UTV today. “I
call 2012 a year of moderate growth for America and Asia and a
year of very slow recovery from a difficult position in
Europe.”  The MSCI gauge’s slump this year is the first since a 54
percent plunge in 2008, when Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
collapsed amid the worsening credit crisis. The developing
nations’  gauge (MXEF)  trades at 10 times estimated profit. Economic
growth in the euro region “isn’t good” and the world economy
is growing only in some Asian and African countries,  Jean-Claude Juncker , who leads the group of euro-area finance ministers,
said today on RTL Luxembourg radio.  Chinese Stocks  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  rose today as a manufacturing
gauge signaled contraction, fueling speculation that the central
bank may cut lenders’ reserve requirements to boost the economy.
The HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics’  purchasing managers’
index (EC11CHPM)  showed a reading of 48.7 for December, compared with 47.7
for November. A reading below 50 indicates a contraction.  OTP Bank Nyrt. (OTP) , Hungary’s largest lender, declined in
Budapest, sliding 2.5 percent as parliament approved a central
bank law over the opposition of the International Monetary Fund
and the European Union, which cited the legislation for
suspending bailout talks earlier this month.  Forint  The forint weakened 1.5 percent against the euro, extending
its annual drop to 12 percent, the biggest slump since at least
2000.  The lira appreciated 1.5 percent against the dollar as
Bloomberg HT television reported that Turkey’s central bank sold
$750 million in its daily dollar auction.  The rand strengthened 1.1 percent as gold rebounded,
extending an 11th annual gain, in London.  The BSE India Sensitive Index, or  Sensex (SENSEX) , retreated 0.6
percent in Mumbai. The index’s 25 percent loss this year was the
worst after 2008 in data that goes back to 1980.  The extra  yield (JPEGSOSD)  investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries rose six basis points, or 0.06
percentage point, to 425, according to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Webb in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey in  Hong Kong  at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  