-- How to Research Deadly Germs Without Helping Terrorists: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2011-12-30T00:00:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-30/how-to-do-research-on-deadly-flu-germs-without-helping-terrorists-view.html
Bird flu kills more than half the
people who catch it. The saving grace of H5N1 is that it’s not
easily spread among humans. Almost all of the 600 people who
have been infected by the virus in its 14-year history have
picked it up from infected poultry.  It was understandable, then, that ears perked up in
September when Dutch researchers at a virology conference in
Malta announced they had created a new form of H5N1 that was
highly transmissible, mammal to mammal. (Specifically, in the
lab, it was ferret to ferret.)  Another cause for alarm, according to a U.S. government
 advisory panel on biosecurity , was that terrorists might exploit
the new results to create their own lethal, contagious virus. To
head off this possibility, the panel, the National Science
Advisory Board for Biosecurity, asked scientific journals not to
publish all the details of the experiments -- both those done in
the Netherlands and similar ones done at the  University of
Wisconsin-Madison . (The two studies were paid for by the
National Institutes of Health.)  The NSABB’s request -- rare in the world of biomedical
science -- is not binding, so it isn’t censorship. But it’s
probably futile, and it makes scientists uneasy, given their
need to share and understand one another’s data. The Dutch
research, for instance, marked a big step forward in getting
ahead of any natural mutation that might allow bird flu to
spread easily among humans. The data will inform new efforts to
develop surveillance tools, vaccines and drug treatments.  The NSABB recommended that when the new research is
published in the journals Nature and Science (no date has yet
been set), the reports should omit “methodological and other
details that could enable replication of the experiments by
those who would seek to do harm.” The scientists should share
that data only with legitimate scientists who need it.  The trouble is, that’s a large number of scientists,
certainly in the hundreds. From there, the information could
spread with ease, if it hadn’t already after the Malta
conference. Dutch researchers agreed to respect the NSABB’s
advice. But, clearly, this was a weak solution that came too
late in the game.  With research on H5N1 and other deadly germs moving at a
fast pace and terrorism still threatening the world, we should
expect to be in this situation again. Biomedical research
projects that have the potential to be exploited for
bioterrorism should be evaluated before they begin. The  National
Institutes of Health  needs a system for doing that.  Such a review process was  recommended  eight years ago by a
committee of the  National Academy of Sciences . Known as the Fink
Committee, for its chairman, Gerald Fink, a genetics professor
at the  Massachusetts Institute of Technology , this group listed
seven classes of experiments that should come under review,
including those aimed at rendering a vaccine ineffective,
conferring resistance to antibiotics or making a pathogen more
virulent or transmissible.  The  Department of Health  and Human Services didn’t take up
this recommendation in 2004, but the new studies of bird flu
demonstrate why it should be reconsidered.  Naturally, scientists chafe at the idea. But review and
restriction of research isn’t unknown in biomedicine. Already,
the federal government  requires  that scientists who engage in
experiments on human subjects submit their research plans to
institutional review boards, which determine whether the
proposed work is safe enough to go forward.  Perhaps a similar system of institutional review boards
could be used for work on disease germs. The University of
Maryland’s Center for International and Security Studies is one
of several institutions that have already offered  ideas  for
getting started. It has suggested, for example, a checklist of
criteria that could gauge the riskiness of experiments.  The principle is clear. In terrorism’s Information Age,
some information needs to be handled with care. At the same
time, we can’t let a review system hamper vital work on
dangerous pathogens. As virologists know, nature can conduct
bioterrorism on its own, with no help from science. And
researchers must be able to do all they can to stay one step
ahead.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 