-- Paul Sees Top-Two Finish in Iowa While Wary of Backing Rivals
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2011-12-31T05:00:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-30/paul-sees-placing-first-or-second-in-iowa-while-wary-of-supporting-rivals.html
U.S. Representative  Ron Paul  of
 Texas  predicts a first or second finish for himself in the Iowa
caucuses and said he likely couldn’t support  Newt Gingrich  as
the Republican presidential nominee while offering qualified
praise for  Mitt Romney .  “I’d probably have trouble,” Paul said when asked
specifically about supporting Gingrich’s candidacy. He added
that he wouldn’t be able to back any Republican nominee in the
general election who didn’t call for dramatic change in foreign
and domestic policy.  “If the policies of the  Republican Party  are same as the
Democrat Party and they don’t want to change anything on foreign
policy, they don’t want to cut anything, they don’t want to
audit the Fed and find out about monetary policy, they don’t
want to have actual change in government, that is a problem for
me,” he said.  Paul, 76, said he anticipates a winning or second-place
showing in the Jan. 3 Republican caucuses that start the 2012
nominating contests.  “I’m gonna come in, I think, first or second,” he said in
an interview airing this weekend on Bloomberg Television’s
“Political Capital with  Al Hunt .”  Paul has moved up in polls in recent weeks, attracting
voters seeking an alternative to Romney, the former
Massachusetts governor.  Romney vs. Paul  A NBC News-Marist poll of likely caucus-goers released
today showed Romney leading the Republican field in Iowa with 23
percent, followed by Paul at 21 percent.  Paul offered limited approval for Romney in the interview,
yet he wouldn’t commit to supporting him as the 2012 Republican
candidate.  “I think he probably understands how the market works as a
businessman a little bit better than a guy like Gingrich does
and the people who have never been in business,” he said of
Romney.  Paul also suggested that he sees Romney as being more
presidential than some of the other candidates.  “I think he has a decorum that’s different,” he said.
“He’s a little bit more diplomatic, I think, in the way he
handles things.”  Still, Paul said he doesn’t think Romney has “convictions
that come close to mine,” and that he views all of his rivals
as being political insiders.  “I put them all in the same category,” he said. “They
all are part of the status quo.”  ‘Serial Flip-Flopper’  Asked why he has been less critical of Romney than some of
the other candidates, Paul said he’s targeted his fellow  Iowa 
front-runner for attacks on occasion.  “We’ve accused him of this vicious term that he flip-
flops,” he said. “We could call him a serial flip flopper.”  Paul continued to suggest any third-party run by him is
unlikely, while refusing to rule it out. He ran as the
Libertarian Party candidate for president in 1988, and
unsuccessfully sought the Republican nomination four years ago.  “I can’t imagine it happening,” he said of a third-party
candidacy.  The libertarian-leaning congressman said his Republican
rivals are too tepid in their approach to the shrinking the
federal budget and deficit, while he would make dramatic cuts.  No ‘Actual Cuts’  “I don’t see any actual cuts,” he said of the spending
plans put forward by his rivals.  Paul said he isn’t bothered by the criticism he’s received
from Gingrich and other candidates in recent weeks.  “After you’ve been in this business for a while, you don’t
have time to be offended,” he said. “Of course, nobody likes
it.”  Paul defended his writings that suggest people who are
sexually harassed in the workplace ought to simply quit their
jobs, instead of always pursuing legal action.  “Well, maybe,” he said. “That’s a vague, vague thing,
sexual harassment, and these are abused. I think it’s - it shows
real bad behavior. I’m not sure. If I was working in a place and
people were ridiculing me and they were -- that was the boss --I
don’t think I’d want to work there.”  Paul said the telling of a bad joke in front of someone
shouldn’t automatically become a harassment case.  “I think political correctness is -- is something that has
gone -- gone wild,” he said. “It’s out of control.”  Supporters’ Remarks  Paul declined to distance himself from friends and
supporters who have made controversial statements, including
racist and anti-Semitic remarks.  “Well, if I regretted all the associations with everybody
that said something dumb or something I disagreed with, it might
eliminate a lot of associations,” he said.  Iowa Republicans, from Governor Terry Branstad on down,
have called Paul’s organization in the state the most robust of
any of the Republican presidential contenders. Even if few
predict he will ultimately be his party’s 2012 nominee, his
campaign apparatus has fueled expectations in Iowa.  Hoping to halt Paul’s rise, his rivals have worked to paint
him as a fringe candidate unable to beat President  Barack Obama 
in the general election.  Gingrich, in an appearance on  CNN  on Dec. 27, said: “I
think Ron Paul’s views are totally outside the mainstream of
every decent American. There will come a morning when people
won’t take him as a serious person.”  In an interview with Bloomberg News on Dec. 29, Gingrich
also criticized Paul, suggesting that a win for him in Iowa
could weaken the future importance of the state’s caucuses in
the nominating process.  “It would be very good for the future of the Iowa caucuses
for somebody other than Ron Paul to win,” Gingrich said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John McCormick in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  