-- Pfizer’s Prevnar 13 Shot Wins U.S. Approval for Older Adults
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2011-12-30T21:08:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-30/pfizer-s-prevnar-13-shot-wins-u-s-approval-for-older-adults.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s Prevnar 13 vaccine for
a bacterial infection that causes pneumonia won approval for use
in adults 50 and older, a population that may add almost $2
billion to sales in 2015.  The  Food and Drug Administration  cleared the shot that will
compete with  Merck & Co. (MRK) ’s vaccine, which was approved almost 30
years ago, the agency said today in a statement.  The FDA weighed approval on the condition New York-based
Pfizer studies the vaccine further to prove it protects against
pneumococcal pneumonia. About 300,000 U.S. adults 50 and older
are hospitalized with the infections each year, said Karen Midthun, director of FDA’s Center for Biologics Evaluation and
Research.  “Pneumococcal disease is a substantial cause of illness
and death,” Midthun said in the statement. “Today’s approval
provides an additional vaccine for preventing pneumococcal
pneumonia and invasive disease in this age group.”  Prevnar 13, approved in the U.S. last year for children 6
weeks to 5 years old,  generated (PFE)  $2.82 billion the first nine
months of 2011, according to the regulatory filings from Pfizer,
the world’s biggest drugmaker. The vaccine may generate $5.9
billion by 2015, with adult use contributing $1.8 billion, said
 Catherine Arnold , an analyst with Credit Suisse Group AG in New
York, in a note to investors.  “The FDA approval of Prevnar 13 for these adults offers
the potential to contribute to the health of millions of aging
Americans,”  Ian Read , Pfizer’s chairman and chief executive
officer, said today in an e-mail.  Safety Results  An FDA staff report released Nov. 14 determined the vaccine
was safe and effective in adults who received Pneumovax 23 from
Whitehouse Station, New Jersey-based Merck and in those never
immunized. Pfizer started an 85,000-subject trial in the
Netherlands to confirm the vaccine’s effectiveness in staving
off pneumococcal pneumonia, the agency said today.  Pfizer hasn’t determined how long the shot will last and is
studying a five-year duration as part of the Netherlands trial,
said Peter Paradiso, of Pfizer’s vaccine development unit, in an
interview.  Pfizer declined less than 1 percent to $21.64 at the close
in  New York . The shares gained 24 percent this year.  Merck’s Pneumovax 23 had $276 million in  sales (MRK)  in the first
nine months of this year, according to company filings.  Insurance coverage for Prevnar 13 will depend on whether
the  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ’s vaccines panel
recommends Pfizer’s shot for those 50 and older. The 2010 health
law requires coverage of vaccines recommended by the panel
without a co-payment or deductible cost to patients.  Merck’s vaccine is recommended for people 65 and older and
for people 2 years and older at high risk for pneumonia, such as
those with sickle cell disease, HIV infection and other
conditions that compromise the immune system, according to the
CDC. It is also recommended for adults 19 to 64 who smoke, have
asthma or live in nursing homes or long-term care facilities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in  Washington  at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 