-- Phosagro Cuts Phosphate-Fertilizer Output Goal on Price Drop
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2011-12-30T14:59:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-30/phosagro-cuts-phosphate-fertilizer-output-goal-on-price-drop-1-.html
OAO Phosagro (PHOR) , Russia’s largest
producer of phosphate fertilizers, plans to cut output of the
crop nutrient by 18 percent in the first quarter from a year
earlier following a slump in prices.  Phosagro will reduce production of diammonium phosphate and
monoammonium phosphate, also known as DAP and MAP, the company
said today in a statement, without specifying volumes. It will
make more of its complex fertilizers until prices for the
phosphate compounds recover, it said.  Phosagro’s decision follows a similar move by the U.S.’s
Mosaic Co., its largest global competitor, which said yesterday
it will cut phosphate output in the first quarter by 250,000
metric tons. DAP prices at  Tampa Bay ,  Florida , have fallen 15
percent from their 2011 high in July to  $572.50 (DAPHDT)  this month.  “Recent declines in MAP and DAP spot prices are
speculative and do not reflect the real economic fundamentals,”
Maxim Volkov, chief executive officer of Moscow-based Phosagro,
said in today’s statement. Mosaic said yesterday that prices
have become “disconnected” from the “underlying agricultural
fundamentals” and aren’t sustainable.  Phosagro agreed to reduce prices for Indian buyers on Nov.
24 after they demanded a revision to account for the rupee’s
depreciation against the dollar.  “We expect that farmer economics and agriculture
fundamentals will support higher prices and higher demand for
these fertilizers ahead of the spring planting season,” Volkov
said in the statement.  Phosagro also said today it plans to spend 7 billion rubles
($218 million) next year to improve phosphate-processing at its
main production unit, Apatit, in the Murmansk region in
northwest  Russia .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  