-- Rail Riders Would Get Safer Exits After Crashes Under Rule
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e   a n d   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2011-12-30T20:04:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-30/rail-riders-would-get-safer-exits-after-crashes-under-u-s-rule.html
Passengers on  Amtrak  and U.S.
commuter railroads would be able to escape trains more easily
after accidents under a rule proposed by U.S. regulators 14
years after a transportation safety board recommended it.  Passenger trains, like airplanes, would be required to have
doors that can be opened in emergencies and lighting to guide
riders to exits if it’s dark or the rail car fills with smoke,
the Federal Railroad Administration said in the proposed  rule 
posted today in the Federal Register.  Vestibule doors for entering and exiting rail cars would
have to have a removable window or panel in case they won’t
open, and doors that open in the middle would need an override
feature. The rule’s cost would range from $21.8 million to $40.8
million over 20 years, the agency said.  “I’m grateful I lived long enough to see the rule
proposed,”  Jim Hall , who was chairman of the U.S. National
Transportation Safety Board in 1997 when it recommended these
changes, said in an interview today.  Consideration of safety improvements was prompted by a Feb.
16, 1996, crash in  Silver Spring ,  Maryland , of Maryland Area
Regional Commuter and Amtrak trains that killed eight passengers
and three crew members in one car. Door emergency-release
handles were damaged by fire and the interior lighting system
didn’t operate after the crash, the railroad administration said
in the proposed rule.  Railroad Agency, Amtrak  The regulator acted previously on other safety board
recommendations resulting from the 1996 crash, Warren Flatau, a
spokesman, said in an e-mail.  “FRA assigns great importance to NTSB recommendations and
seeks to satisfactorily address them in a deliberate and
systematic manner,” Flatau said. The agency issued emergency
preparedness regulations in 1998 and passenger equipment safety
standards in 1999, he said.  Most passenger rail equipment already meets the proposed
standards, Flatau said.  Amtrak  helped develop the rule,  Steve Kulm , a spokesman for
the U.S. national passenger railroad, said.  “Safety is Amtrak’s top priority,” he said in an e-mail.
“Our existing equipment is compliant with federal rail safety
requirements now on the books, and we are presently building 130
new single-level long-distance passenger rail cars that also
will meet federal safety standards.”  Maryland Crash  The safety board found in its investigation of the Maryland
crash that the death toll increased because people who survived
the collision couldn’t operate emergency-exit doors or see
through smoke.  The 11 deaths were in a MARC car. Seven passengers and one
crew member survived the impact and died of smoke inhalation,
the NTSB found.  The safety board, which has no regulatory authority,
recommended later that year that FRA inspect all commuter-rail
equipment to determine that rail cars are equipped with
removable windows or panels that can be used in an emergency.  On Aug. 28, 1997, the NTSB called on the rail regulator to
require better exit doors and emergency lighting on passenger
cars. Both recommendations have remained open for more than 14
years, according to the board’s website.  Acela Exits  Requiring emergency-exit doors might lead to deaths or
serious injuries from passengers attempting to exit moving
trains, Allan Rutter, then the railroad agency’s administrator,
said in an April 17, 2002, letter to the safety board.  The FRA required in 1999 that trains capable of speeds from
125 miles per hour (201 kilometers per hour) to 150 mph (241
kph) have exit panels on doors. That would apply to Amtrak’s
Acela, the fastest U.S. passenger train, which operates between
 Washington  and  Boston .  Other improvements, such as windows that open in an
emergency, had improved the chances that passengers in an
accident could escape, according to a May 20, 2009, letter to
the safety board from FRA Administrator Joseph Szabo.  “The most rewarding thing about the work at the NTSB is
the opportunity to prevent the needless loss of life in
accidents,” Hall, who is now principal of Hall & Associates LLC
in Washington. “I firmly believe if this rule is put in place,
sometime in the future others will live because of this safety
change.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  