-- Rajoy’s Silence on Deficit Bolsters Spanish Market: Euro Credit
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2011-12-30T13:27:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-30/rajoy-s-silence-on-deficit-bolsters-spanish-market-euro-credit.html
Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy 
may finally tell investors how he’ll tackle the euro area’s
third-biggest  budget gap (EUBDEURO)  more than a month after winning the
nation’s biggest electoral landslide in three decades.  The wait has done little to damp a rally in Spanish bonds,
which have been  Europe ’s best performers, gaining 8 percent
since Nov. 20 when his Peoples Party ousted the Socialists. The
yield on Spain’s 10-year benchmark bond fell 9 basis points to
5.08 percent at 2:20 p.m. in Madrid as Rajoy met with his
Cabinet, before a press briefing at about 2:30 p.m. in Madrid.  Rajoy faces the double challenge of convincing investors he
can avoid following  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal  in needing a
bailout while rebooting a  contracting economy (SPNAGDPQ)  being choked by
Europe’s highest jobless rate at 23 percent. Rajoy has said he
needs to find at least 4 billion euros ($5.2 billion) in savings
in the first quarter to meet his deficit goal for next year.  “The market is less concerned in the near term about Spain
and its ongoing funding needs, but this may change very quickly
if the government doesn’t deliver something tangible soon,”
said Georg Grodzki, global head of credit research at London-
based Legal & General Investment Management, which oversees
about $515 billion of assets.  Bond Redemptions  The drop in Spanish bond yields is giving Rajoy some relief
as it eases the cost of funding more than 36 billion euros of
maturing debt in the first quarter.  Italy , which like Spain has
come under threat from debt-crisis contagion, has more than 100
billion euros of bonds and bills to rollover in the period.
Spain is scheduled to hold its first bond auction of 2012 on
Jan. 12.  Italy’s 10-year yield remains above the 7 percent level
that led Greece, Ireland and Portugal to seek bailouts, even
after the new government of Prime Minister  Mario Monti  passed
more than 30 billion euros of budget measures to eliminate the
deficit in 2013 and reduce debt. Italy’s total borrowing of
almost 120 percent of gross domestic product dwarfs Spain’s 70
percent.  “Spain is currently benefiting from the perception among
investors that its problems are less severe than Italy’s given
its smaller stock of public debt and lower funding
requirements,” said Nicholas Spiro, managing director of Spiro
Sovereign Strategy in  London .  “The markets also appear willing to give the Rajoy
government some breathing space, which has not been the case in
Italy,” he said.  Deficit Goals  Rajoy said last week that all areas of public spending
except pensions may be reduced as he seeks to trim the deficit
to 4.4 percent of GDP next year and 3 percent in 2013 from the 6
percent that was pledged for this year.  Some 1.9 billion-euro spending cuts may be approved by the
Cabinet this morning, Expansion reported today, without saying
how it obtained the information. The ministries of public works
and defense will be most affected, according to the newspaper. A
moratorium on public work projects is also among the
possibilities being examined, Expansion reported earlier this
week.  The 56-year-old Rajoy has made Budget Minister Cristobal Montoro’s task more difficult by promising to raise pensions in
line with inflation, a move that will cost more than 1 billion
euros.  Wage Freeze  Extending a freeze on the wages of the 536,300 civil
servants working for the central government and shrinking the
public workforce through attrition also is being considered,
said government spokeswoman Soraya Saenz de Santamaria on Dec.
23.  Spain  also may axe a subsidy granted to some young people
under age 25 to help pay for their rent, newspaper ABC reported
on Dec. 28. That’s popular perk in a country where youth
unemployment is almost 50 percent.  Whatever Rajoy announces today, he’s signaled that more
drastic measures may be needed should Spain miss its 2011
deficit target. The deepening economic slump and the growing
budget shortfalls of Spain’s autonomous regions threaten the 6
percent deficit goal. A Bloomberg survey of five economists
points to a shortfall of 6.9 percent.  The Bank of Spain today said non-residents’ holdings of
Spanish stocks and bonds Spain declined by 36 billion euros in
the first 10 months of the year, more than twice as much as
during the same period of last year.  The central bank yesterday confirmed available data suggest
the euro area’s fourth-biggest economy contracted in the final
months of the year as tourism and exports, the drivers of its
first-half recovery, weakened while household spending and
investment worsened.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in  Madrid   at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  