-- Three Ways Japan Can Put a National Disaster to Good Use: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2011-12-30T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-30/three-ways-japan-might-be-able-to-put-national-disaster-to-good-use-view.html
The first comprehensive report on
 Japan (JGDTTOT) ’s Fukushima nuclear crisis is 507 pages of the most
sobering reading of the year.  The  verdict  by a government-appointed panel: Disarray
among regulators, dismal safety preparations, operational
blunders, amateurish communication breakdowns and institutional
inertia led to the worst radiation leak since Chernobyl in 1986.  The findings, although damning, offer  Japan  the kind of
opening that doesn’t come along very often short of war or the
sort of natural disaster that struck last March. The report
itself is an encouraging sign that the nation is willing to
examine its failings and, we hope, take action. The year ahead
is a fresh opportunity both to rebuild Japan’s northeastern
Tohoku region and break with the sclerotic strategies of the
past. Here are three ways to jump-start a process vital to the
country’s  future (JGDPAGDP) .  -- First, be straightforward.  Japan (NKY)  must be forthright with
its people in a manner that borders on cultural anathema. The 
government should tell the more than 100,000 displaced people
that  they may never be able to return home to the northeast as
radiation continues to taint food and water.  The same goes for the tiny coastal towns where there is
nothing to go back to: no infrastructure, no jobs, no future.
Some towns must be merged; others must be abandoned. This
requires a firm acknowledgment that many of the devastated
villages were dying well before the earthquake and tsunami,
both demographically and economically. That means no subsidies
to encourage the resumption of a way of life that was outmoded
a generation ago.  Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501) , whose negligence helped put Japan
where it is today, should be nationalized and its management
fired without pensions. The last thing that should be protected
is the status quo.  The central government should also be specific about how
much money will go toward disaster recovery. Officials in  Tokyo 
must move beyond generalities and vague statements of support
and begin providing actual figures.  -- Second, give the prime minister a chance. Yoshihiko Noda’s approval ratings are sliding in the same pattern
experienced by his numerous recent predecessors. It’s only a
matter of time before Noda, prime minister since September,
faces calls to step down. Japan’s leaders spend so much time
worrying about keeping their job that they can’t actually do it.
Lawmakers should give Noda two years or so to articulate a
 vision  and begin implementing it.  That might give him enough breathing room to find revenue
to finance Japan’s growing debt, develop policies to end
deflation, adjust to an aging population and pay for
reconstruction. No prime minister has had the courage to tackle
these for fear of losing public support. Taking that risk out
of the equation would give Japan’s leader a fighting chance 
for the first time in ages.  Noda might even be able to summon the courage to get
creative in these pinched fiscal times. One idea might be a
Tohoku-themed  bond issue . Japanese sit on roughly $15 trillion
in domestic savings, much of it in postal accounts that earn
almost no interest. This money could be redeployed in the
shattered northeast. Households might be enthusiastic buyers
of earthquake debt, bearing higher yields. The exercise might be
more productive than handing cash to the Japanese  Red Cross .  -- Third, try something different. The biggest mistake would
be to try to re-create what existed before March 11. Power should
be transferred to local governments. The officials in  Tokyo  
working on revival plans are mired in bureaucracy and are too far
away from the damaged areas to grasp the complexities of life
there. Rules require central government approval to relocate a
highway just a few feet from a washed out roadbed or rebuild a
destroyed hospital beyond the tsunami high-water line. We recommend
a moratorium on these rules and a rewriting of regulations that
should been overhauled decades ago.  Tohoku should be turned into a special-enterprise zone with
low corporate taxes, a no-red-tape policy for startup  companies (JNUE) ,
tax rebates for new jobs, and incentives to encourage investment
and the use of renewable energy. Control of farms and harbors
should be wrested from powerful and uncompetitive agriculture
and fishery cooperatives. Child allowances and college grants
could be used to attract young families. Some central-government
offices could be relocated there.  The  region (JNVNIYOY)  could even serve as the base for a globally
funded natural-disaster research center that trains special
response teams to be deployed anywhere. And if Okinawa is tired
of hosting most of the 50,000 U.S. military personnel in Japan,
move them to Tohoku.  Change is always painful, but Japan has risen powerfully
from the ashes before. From the rubble of World War II, it built
an economy that until 2010 was the world’s second largest. It
created a stable of renowned corporate names, such as  Sony Corp. (6758) 
and Honda Motor Co., which set the global standard for quality.
Tragedy drove Japan to reinvent itself, bigger and better.  We can’t tell Japan just how to proceed with the reforms so
vital to its future; that’s up to its 126 million people. But
the nation has an opportunity for the kind of reset that doesn’t
come along often. It would be a shame if Japan wasted this
chance.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 