-- Reinsurance Rate Increase to Focus on Loss Areas, Willis Re Says
-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 2011-12-30T13:46:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-30/reinsurance-rate-increase-to-focus-on-loss-areas-willis-re-says.html
Rate increases for reinsurance
coverage in January will focus on loss-affected areas while this
year’s claims burden won’t lead to a full turn of the market,
according to reinsurance brokerage  Willis Group Holdings Plc. (WSH)   “The market is increasingly segmented with rate movements
being driven by individual loss history and perceived exposure
movements, and not by an overall blanket increase,” Willis Re
said in a  report  today. “If 2012 underwriting results return to
profitability, it’s unclear if we will witness a prolonged
market hardening.”  2011 was the second-most-expensive year for reinsurers such
as  Munich Re (MUV2)  and  Swiss Re Ltd. (SREN)  and the primary insurers whom
they help shoulder risks for clients, according to Zurich-based
Swiss Re. Man-made and natural catastrophes including the
earthquake and tsunami in Japan, the earthquakes in New Zealand
and the floods in Australia and  Thailand  cost the industry about
$108 billion, it said on Dec. 15. That compares with $123
billion in claims from disasters including Hurricanes Katrina,
Wilma and Rita in 2005.  More than half of the insured losses recorded in 2011 will
be paid by the reinsurance market, Willis Re said in the report,
adding that “the majority of this year’s catastrophe claims
arose from either unmodeled or inadequately modeled perils or
territories” such as the earthquake and tsunami in  Japan  and
the flooding in Thailand, which led to unexpectedly high claims
in coverage for supply-chain disruptions.  ‘Market Hardening’  “The key to a sustained market hardening is much more
likely to lie in the impact of the current economic turmoil in
the  euro zone  and elsewhere and how this works through to
diminish the capital bases of reinsurers,” Willis Re said.
Capital levels in the global reinsurance industry declined
“only marginally” by the end of the third quarter compared
with the start of the year, the broker said.  In reinsurance terms, a hardening of markets or rates
refers to an increase in prices for coverage among a broad
number of areas of coverage.  The earthquake in Japan on March 11 and the ensuing tsunami
caused insured losses of $35 billion, while the Feb. 22 temblor
in  New Zealand  cost $12 billion. The floods in Thailand are
estimated to cost between $8 billion and $11 billion. Severe
storms in the U.S. in April and May cost about $14 billion,
while hurricane Irene is estimated to cost $4.9 billion, Swiss
Re said.  About two-thirds of property and casualty reinsurance
contracts of companies such as  Munich Re , Swiss Re and  Hannover
Re (HNR1) , the world’s fourth-biggest reinsurer, are typically up for
renewal in January. The remainder is being renewed in April and
July with a focus on the Asia-Pacific region and the U.S.  Global prices for reinsurance coverage declined about 7.5
percent in the January 2011 renewals after they dropped about 6
percent a year earlier. Rates rose about  8 percent  in January
2009 when reinsurers’ capital was drained by costly storms,
including Hurricanes Ike and Gustav, and the financial crisis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  