-- RIM’s U.S. Market Share Falls to 6.5% as Apple, Samsung Gain
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2011-12-30T21:15:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-30/rim-s-u-s-market-share-falls-to-6-5-from-7-1-as-apple-samsung-advance.html
  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) ’s
BlackBerry smartphone, which lost its No. 4 spot to  Apple Inc. (AAPL) 
in the U.S. in the first half, fell further behind the iPhone
maker and market leader Samsung Electronics Co. after new models
failed to attract enough users.  RIM’s share of U.S. mobile-phone subscribers in the three
months through November dropped to 6.5 percent from 7.1 percent
in the previous quarter, research firm ComScore Inc.  said .
Samsung increased to 25.6 percent from 25.3 percent, and Apple
consolidated its fourth place, gaining 1.4 percentage point to
11.2 percent.  The figures are the latest evidence that BlackBerry models
RIM introduced this year with touch screens and upgraded
browsers haven’t stopped customers opting instead for Apple’s
iPhone and devices built on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android platform, for
example the Samsung Galaxy S.  This month, Waterloo, Ontario-based RIM gave sales and
profit forecasts that missed analysts’ estimates and said
revenue fell 6 percent last quarter to $5.17 billion.  In the November quarter,  LG Electronics Inc. (066570)  lost 0.5
percentage point of U.S. share to finish second with 20.5
percent, Reston, Virginia-based ComScore said.  Motorola Mobility
Holdings Inc (MMI) ., the No. 3, saw its share drop 0.3 percentage
point to 13.7 percent. RIM remained the last of the top five
handset makers.  RIM climbed 1.1 percent to $14.50 at the close of New York
trading, leaving the stock with a loss of 75 percent this year.  Operating Systems  The BlackBerry maker also lost ground among the top U.S.
smartphone operating systems. RIM’s share fell to 16.6 percent
from 19.7 percent, maintaining the company’s position as No. 3.
Leader Android and Apple, the No. 2, both gained, according to
ComScore.  RIM’s percentage-point decline was six times bigger than
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Windows Phone system and 10 times that of
 Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) ’s Symbian.  Nokia started selling the Lumia 800, its first device
running Windows Phone software, in November in  Europe . Nokia
Chief Executive Officer Stephen Elop teamed up with Microsoft to
try to revive sales and compete with Cupertino, California-based
Apple and Android.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  