-- Romney Is Intensifying Effort in Iowa as He Seeks to Save America’s ‘Soul’
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r   a n d   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2011-12-30T19:08:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-30/romney-intensifying-effort-in-iowa-as-he-seeks-republican-caucus-victory.html
Republican presidential candidate
 Mitt Romney , intensifying his late bid to win the Iowa caucuses,
cast himself as an outsider battling to save the nation’s
“soul.”  “I need your help, you guys,” he told several hundred
voters gathered today under a cold drizzle in a supermarket
parking lot in West Des Moines. “This is a real battle. It’s a
battle for America. It’s a battle for the future course of
America.”  After spending months pursuing a cautious strategy in a
state where he was a presidential also-ran four years ago,
Romney has accelerated his campaign in Iowa just days before the
Jan. 3 caucuses.  His campaign said yesterday that the former Massachusetts
governor would remain in  Des Moines , the state capital, the
morning after the caucuses for television interviews, a sign of
growing confidence about his prospects in the state. In past
campaigns, candidates worried about their showing in the
caucuses typically have left Iowa by then to try to limit the
importance placed on the outcome.  Poll Results  A NBC News-Marist poll released today showed Romney leading
the Republican field in Iowa with 23 percent, followed
Representative Ron Paul of  Texas  with 21 percent.  Former U.S. Senator  Rick Santorum  of Pennsylvania had 15
percent, followed by Texas Governor  Rick Perry  at 14 percent,
former U.S. House Speaker Newt Gingrich at 13 percent, and
Minnesota Representative  Michele Bachmann  at 6 percent. The Dec.
27-28 poll had a margin of error of plus or minus 4.7 percentage
points.  Yesterday, Romney cast Paul as fringe candidate, unable to
compete in the general election.  “ Ron Paul ’s not going to be our nominee,” Romney said
yesterday of the Texas congressman in an  interview  aboard his
campaign bus in Iowa with the RealClearPolitics website.  In an interview with Bloomberg News, Gingrich was also
critical of Paul, suggesting that a win by him in Iowa could
weaken the future importance of the state’s caucuses in the
nominating process.  Drug Issue  “It would be very good for the future of the Iowa caucuses
for somebody other than Ron Paul to win,” Gingrich said.
“Somebody who wins because a lot of college students show up in
favor of drug legalization doesn’t exactly strengthen the idea
that this is a good environment to fight in.”  Paul, in line with his libertarian philosophy, has said
that he would support the  legalization  of drugs as a way to
better regulate their sale and reduce profits reaped by violent
cartels and gangs.  As he has for days, Romney at his  West Des Moines  event
today focused his attacks on President  Barack Obama , who is
vacationing in  Hawaii  with his family over the holidays.  “We’re out in the cold and the rain and the wind because
we care about America,” Romney said. “He just finished his
90th round of golf.”  New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie , a favorite of fiscally
conservative Republicans, was at the event and playfully pushed
Iowa voters to back Romney.  Saying if “you people disappoint me” in the caucus vote,
he added: “I will be back Jersey style, people.”  Last night, Romney rode his campaign bus into a warehouse
in Ames, Iowa, where an enthusiastic crowd of about 750 people
were waiting.  ‘Soul of America’  Stepping off the bus as the song “Eye of the Tiger”
blared, he described the election as a fight “to save the soul
of America.”  As Romney’s  Iowa  crowds have grown, his rivals have battled
to emerge as his chief challenger.  Gingrich, at his first campaign stop today in Des Moines,
reiterated his pledge to remain positive while taking a swipe at
his competitors.  “If somebody has to try to frighten you to run ads that
are false to get to be president, why would you expect them to
tell the truth when they are president?” Gingrich said at a
Rotary Club breakfast.  About 10 times more anti-Gingrich ads have aired in Iowa
than ads that support him. More than $2.5 million has been spent
attacking Gingrich, compared to just over $250,000 spent in his
favor, according to data compiled by CMAG/Kantar Media, a New
York-based company that tracks political spending.  Bachmann Defector  Bachmann has struggled to convince voters that her
campaign remains viable following the Dec. 28 departure of a top
supporter to Paul’s campaign.  She’s accused Paul of bribing Kent Sorenson, an state
senator who was Bachmann’s Iowa campaign chairman, to abandon
her effort in favor of Paul.  “He told me that he was offered money, he was offered a
lot of money by the Ron Paul campaign,” Bachmann said of
Sorenson in comments yesterday in Des Moines. “No one else
knows about that conversation other than Kent Sorenson and
myself.”  Paul’s campaign and Sorenson have denied the charge.  Santorum, mostly ignored by rivals throughout the campaign,
is attracting criticism now that he has risen in the polls and
has the potential to unite the votes of social conservatives who
are a prominent bloc in the state’s  Republican Party .  Perry, at an Iowa event yesterday, sought to link Santorum
to federal spending for local projects, saying he had a taste
for “Pennsylvania pork” while in the Senate.  ‘Earmarks and Pork’  “Senator Santorum, Congressmen Ron Paul and  Newt Gingrich 
and Congresswoman Michele Bachmann have long backed
congressional earmarks and pork,”  Ray Sullivan , a spokesman for
Perry, said in a statement yesterday. “Expecting them to
overhaul  Washington  is asking a fox to guard the henhouse.”  In a Fox News interview, Santorum defended his use of
earmarks while in Congress.  “I’m proud of the money that I did set aside for things
that were priorities in my state,” he said.  Santorum, 53, also stood by a comment he made about Paul’s
age at an earlier event, saying he did it in a “joking way” as
he suggested the congressman wouldn’t change his foreign policy
views if he made it to the White House.  “My comment was, you know, how many 78-year-old men do you
know who change their opinions?” he said of Paul, who is 76.
“People are pretty set in their ways.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Des Moines, Iowa, at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net 
John McCormick in Des Moines, Iowa, at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  