-- Romney Seeks Connection in Songs, Memories
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2011-12-30T15:36:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-30/romney-seeks-connection-in-patriotic-songs-childhood-memories.html
Mitt Romney is working hard at being
a regular guy.  Five days before the first voting takes place in the
presidential campaign of 2012, the former private equity chief
executive officer, governor of  Massachusetts  and scion of a
prominent Mormon family wants voters to view him as just
average.  Standing before several hundred voters in Mason City, Iowa,
yesterday, Romney downplayed his time in political office.  “I served in government four years -- I like to say I
didn’t inhale,” he said. “I’m a businessman. I’m a dad.”  His everyman efforts come as polls show his support rising
among likely voters in the Jan. 3 Iowa caucuses as well as the
Jan. 10  New Hampshire  primary -- signs Romney might quickly
clinch the Republican presidential nomination. Already,
Democrats are unveiling a barrage of attacks questioning whether
a man who made hundreds of millions of dollars in private equity
understands the economic anxieties facing many Americans.  This week, the  Democratic National Committee  circulated
comments from  Randy Johnson , a former labor organizer at the
paper company Ampad, who described how workers were
“devastated” when Bain Capital LLC, the company where Romney
made his fortune, fired workers in 1992.  “What do I do?” Johnson told ABC News in an interview.
“I don’t have a good college education,” he said. “Families
were devastated.”  Jeans, Not Suits  The Romney campaign has long tried to signal that its
multimillionaire candidate identifies more with workers than
with management. They jettisoned the suits and ties he often
wore in his 2008 campaign for president in exchange for jeans
and rubber-soled brown loafers. Romney often talks about his
flights on budget Southwest Airlines and meals at the fast-food
chain Carl’s Jr.  Now, as his campaign begins to look toward the general
election, those efforts have accelerated.  On the campaign trail, Romney casts his childhood in
patriotic terms, recounting stories of cross-country car trips
and his early life in  Michigan .  “I drove my mom’s Rambler station wagon,” he told smiling
voters, describing his high school years behind the wheel of a
car that his father, an automotive executive, sold. “They
called it Mrs. Romney’s grocery getter.”  Romney Versus Obama  Those memories are intended not just to help Romney connect
with voters. They also underscore what may become one of his
major messages if he wins his party’s nomination and challenges
President  Barack Obama .  In speeches in Iowa and New Hampshire, Romney has argued
that Obama wants to transform the country into an “entitlement
society” dependent on government aid. He proposes an
“opportunity society” that allows business to flourish.  “I think the president has a very different vision than
you have in this room about what America should be,” he told
voters who gathered before sunrise to see him in Muscatine,
 Iowa . “I don’t want to transform America into something I
wouldn’t recognize.”  To highlight the contrast, Romney recalls a childhood
rooted in patriotic ideals. At Rastrelli’s Italian restaurant in
Clinton, Iowa, he recited songs like spoken poetry, reading
multiple verses of “American the Beautiful” aloud.  “I’ve been talking about some of my favorite songs,
patriotic songs,” he said. “I love the national anthem. I love
the ‘Battle Hymn of The Republic.’ I love ‘God Bless America.’”  Personal Wealth  Accusations that Romney is too rich to relate have dogged
him since the start of the race. News in August of his plans to
renovate his $12 million home in the posh La Jolla area of  San
Diego  reminded voters of his fortune. His comment in June to
jobless Florida voters that he too was unemployed sparked
questions about his ability to connect with average voters.  Romney, whose financial disclosure in August estimated his
personal wealth at as much as $250 million, is by far the
wealthiest of the presidential candidates. He said on Dec. 22
that he has no plans to release his income tax returns if he
wins his party’s nomination.  Romney has frequently referred to the rags-to-riches story
of his father, George. The former Michigan governor started his
career as a lathe-and-plaster carpenter and went on to head
American Motors Corp., maker of that family Rambler. Romney
often describes how his father would hold nails in his mouth and
spit them out point-forward while working.  Wife’s Role  Mitt Romney ’s wife, Ann, also has been deployed more
frequently on the campaign trial in an effort to humanize her
husband.  Introducing him in Mason City, she told of their time as a
young couple, describing the difficulties of raising five sons.  “All we do is wrestle, bounce balls and see how high you
can jump,” she said. “And they never clean the kitchen.”  When he took the stage, Romney described being piled into
the family car with his siblings to see the country.  “They wanted us to see the mountains, the rivers and the
canyons and the sequoias and the oceans, so we went,” he told
several hundred voters gathered in Music Man Square. “They
wanted me to fall in love with America -- and I did.”  Standing before a replica of the set from “The Music
Man,” the 1962 film based on the musical set in a fictional
version of Mason City, he questioned whether Obama had the same
understanding.  “I don’t think the president understands and his people
understand what makes America such a powerful and dynamic
nation,” Romney said. “I do.”  To contact the reporter on this story: 
Lisa Lerer in Ames, Iowa, at 
 llerer@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  