-- RZB Raises 342 Million Euros to Buy Assets From Its Owners
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2011-12-30T09:38:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-30/rzb-raises-342-million-euros-to-buy-assets-from-its-owners-1-.html
Raiffeisen Zentralbank Oesterreich
AG (RZBOPA) , the majority owner of  Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI) ,
raised 342 million euros ($443 million) from existing
shareholders to buy assets in the same amount from them.  RZB, closely held by  eight regional cooperative banks ,
raised the capital by selling to some of its shareholders non-
voting participation capital, the Vienna-based lender said in a
 statement  today. It is buying for the same amount 24 percent of
Czech Raiffeisenbank AS and 13 percent of  Tatra Banka AS (TAT) , also
from some of its shareholders.  “This measure ensures that the RZB Group’s structure is
optimized and at the same time improves its capital position
according to the provisions of Basel III,” RZB said in the
statement. Under the new rules introduced by the Basel Committee
for Banking Supervision, banks can no longer fully consolidate
minority stakes held by outside investors in subsidiaries such
as Raiffeisenbank and Tatra Banka. Basel III’s introduction has
been brought forward by Austrian regulators and will kick in
from 2013.  RZB has until the end of June to fill a 2.1 billion-euro
capital shortfall determined by the European Banking Authority.
While the measure doesn’t help fill the gap directly because the
EBA doesn’t recognize the participation capital, the bank will
later swap the new capital into common stock. The same swap is
planned for 500 million euros to 1 billion euros in
participation capital it has issued before.  RZB didn’t disclose in the statement which of its
shareholders bought how much of the participation capital, and
which stakes in the Czech and Slovak business it bought from
whom. Its biggest owners are Raiffeisenlandesbank
Oberoesterreich AG and Raiffeisenlandesbank NOe-Wien AG.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  