-- HSBC’s Sale of Thai Unit Shows Priority Is Scale, Not Geography
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g   a n d   J o y c e   K o h
-- 2011-12-30T03:19:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-30/hsbc-s-sale-of-thai-unit-shows-priority-is-scale-not-geography.html
  HSBC Holdings Plc (5) ’s effort to sell
its retail bank in Thailand, a market it entered more than a
century ago, marks a shift toward larger-scale operations as the
bank sells assets to bolster its capital base.  Bank of Ayudhya Pcl (BAY) , the Thai lender partly owned by
 General Electric Co. (GE) , is expected to complete an acquisition of
HSBC’s credit card and personal loans valued at 30 billion baht
($945 million) to 40 billion baht early next year, the Bangkok
Post reported on Dec. 27, citing a person in the banking
industry it didn’t name.  HSBC, which was trying to buy a bank in Thailand as
recently as 2010, would loosen ties to the country just as new
rules next year let foreign-owned banks open as many as 20
branches.  Stuart Gulliver , chief executive officer of the
London-based bank, is reversing two decades of expansion,
selling assets and cutting jobs as  Europe ’s debt crisis saps
profit and regulators boost  capital requirements .  “HSBC used to look at their business portfolio
geographically, but they now look at it by size,” Masahiko Ejiri, a Tokyo-based  fund manager  at Mizuho Asset Management
Co., which oversees about $41 billion, said by phone yesterday.
“HSBC’s disposal of assets in Asia may make it less attractive
to investors.”  The bank in December announced the sale of its Japanese
private banking business, with assets under management of $2.7
billion as of Oct. 31. HSBC, with total assets of $2.7 trillion,
will be more disciplined about where it deploys capital,
focusing investment on faster growing markets, as it faces
 “regulatory and inflationary headwinds,”  Gulliver said in May.  ’Disciplined Management’  HSBC failed in its 2010 bid to buy Siam City Bank Pcl, the
country’s seventh-biggest lender by assets at the time, which
was eventually sold for about $2.14 billion. The bank aims to
cut as much as $3.5 billion of expenses by 2013 to tackle wage
inflation in faster-growing economies and prepare for new
capital rules, it said in May.  The lender  announced (HSBA)  14 transactions from January through
Nov. 9, including the sale of a U.S. credit card business valued
around $32.7 billion, a Chilean retail bank and a Hungarian
consumer-finance portfolio, the lender said. It’s also selling
operations in Georgia, Iraq and  Poland .  “There has been a disciplined management at HSBC that is
going ahead without hesitation to trim businesses they don’t
wish to commit more capital in,” Chong Yoon-Chou, Singapore-
based investment director at Aberdeen Asset Management  Asia 
Ltd., whose holdings include HSBC shares. “For a lot of
investors, this could be a symbolic action to continue to
restructure its businesses.”  First Banknotes  HSBC issued the first banknotes in Thailand, in 1889, and
made the first foreign loan to the Thai government, for a
railroad project, according to its  website . In addition to the
retail operation it is reported to be selling, the lender offers
corporate and investment banking services in the country.  Ayudhya said in June it was in acquisition talks with
consumer finance companies, after buying General Electric’s GE
Money unit in Thailand in 2009. GE owns 33 percent of Bank of
Ayudhya, the biggest stake and more than twice the second-
largest holding,  data compiled by Bloomberg (BAY)  show.  Ayudhya “welcomes opportunities to grow its business,”
Philip Tan, head of the bank’s consumer-finance group, said by
phone on Dec. 27, declining to comment on the Bangkok Post
report. Varanandha Sutthapreeda, vice president of
communications at HSBC in  Thailand , also declined to comment.
Penny Shone, a Singapore-based spokeswoman for GE, cited a
policy of not commenting on “market speculation” in an e-mail
today.  Bank of Ayudhya’s  shares (BAY)  have fallen 14 percent this year,
compared with a 0.9 percent decline in the benchmark SET Index.
Bangkok Bank, Thailand’s biggest by assets, gained 4.1 percent
in the period.  Bank of Ayudhya had $29.3 billion of assets as of the end
of September, making it the nation’s fifth-biggest lender
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Bangkok Bank has $64.7
billion and Krung Thai has $61.6 billion, according to Bloomberg
data.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephanie Tong in  Hong Kong  at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net ;
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  