-- Severed Hands Share in Gruesome ‘Wild Bride’: West Coast Stage
-- B y   S t e p h e n   W e s t
-- 2011-12-31T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-30/severed-hands-share-in-berkeley-s-gruesome-wild-bride-west-coast-stage.html
Striking a deal with the devil is
always a dicey proposition, as Kneehigh Theatre demonstrates in
“The Wild Bride,” a gruesome mash-up of mime, dance, fairy
tales, English music hall and American blues.  The British group, directed by Emma Rice, brought a staging
of the film “Brief Encounter” to San Francisco and  New York  in
2008. That production showcased the company’s theatrical and
musical skills even if the Noel Coward story came off as a
period piece. Now they’re back in the Bay Area with a different
approach -- down and dirty.  A dapper devil, strumming a guitar, sings a jazzy number
about his boredom. For amusement he approaches a poor father and
offers him wealth and luxury in exchange for what’s in his
backyard. The foolish man, thinking only of his apple tree,
agrees to the swap. Then he learns that his daughter, the deal’s
true object, is also behind the house.  The girl is pure and her hands are clean, so the devil
demands that they be removed (or else he can’t take her with
him). When Daddy complies, it’s not a scene designed for young
children.  Yet the girl gets up and sings a soulful version of  Robert
Johnson ’s 1936  “Crossroad Blues”  (“Standin’ at the crossroad,
I tried to flag a ride/Didn’t nobody seem to know me, everybody
pass me by”), then evades the devil’s attentions and sets off
to live in the wilderness. When the mud-smeared girl eats a pear
from the orchard of a prince, her fortunes begin to turn. The
story shifts to scenes of marriage, childbirth, war and
redemption, with the devil following close behind.  Talented Cast  The  production  features a talented cast of three men and
three women who sing, dance and play musical instruments along
with acting. The staging is simple yet effective. The music is
engaging. So why is the show less than fully satisfying?  Perhaps the Grimm’s fairy tale on which it’s based, “The
Girl Without Hands,” is too primitive and cruel to engage our
sympathies. Maybe the story is too convoluted in the second act
of the show. Perhaps it’s just that the devil -- who often seems
the most human of the characters -- didn’t get his due.  The U.S. premiere of “The Wild Bride” runs through Jan.
22 at  Berkeley Repertory Theatre , 2025 Addison St. Information:
+1-510-647-2949;  http://www.berkeleyrep.org . Rating: **  (Stephen West is an editor for Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this story:
Stephen West in  San Francisco  at 
 smwest@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 