-- SL Green Said to Reach Agreement on Buying Manhattan’s HarperCollins Tower
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2011-12-30T18:39:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-30/sl-green-said-to-reach-accord-on-265-million-harpercollins-tower-purchase.html
SL Green Realty Corp. (SLG) ,  Manhattan ’s
biggest office landlord, agreed to buy the HarperCollins
Building on East 53rd Street in  Midtown (CWRR1NMT)  for about $265 million,
two people with knowledge of the deal said.  The price values the 37-story tower at about $680 a square
foot, said one of the people, who asked not to be identified
because the negotiations were private. The New York-based real
estate investment trust reached the agreement late last week,
the person said.  The deal caps a year in which SL Green was the biggest
buyer of  New York  commercial property, according to  data (OFCRVMAN)  from
Real Capital Analytics Inc. This year’s transactions include
stakes in 3 Columbus Circle, 280 Park Ave. and 180 Maiden Lane,
as well as the purchase of retail properties along Fifth and
Madison avenues that are occupied by luxury merchants such as
Prada, Valentino and Giorgio Armani.  SL Green was involved in the acquisition or
recapitalization of about $5.6 billion of properties in 2010,
including partial-interest transactions and deals in which it
swapped debt for equity, Real Capital said. The total includes
$416 million of deals that are still pending.  The price for the 388,000-square-foot (36,000-square-meter)
tower at 10 E. 53rd St. was kept down by the expiration of
leases for about 80 percent of the building in 2014, according
to one of the people. At least $30 million of renovations will
be needed to re-lease the space, the person said.  Rick Matthews , an SL Green spokesman, declined to comment.  HarperCollins Lease  Among the tenants with a lease expiring is  HarperCollins
Publishers , owned by Rupert Murdoch’s News Corp. The  book
publisher  has about 204,000 square feet, more than half the
building, according to  CoStar Group Inc. (CSGP) , a Washington-based
real estate information service.  The tower’s owner is New Millennium Estates Ltd. of New
York, and  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  of Turin,  Italy , the country’s
largest bank by market value, is a lender to it, according to
city property records. The glass-and-steel skyscraper, completed
in 1972, was built by brothers Percy and Harold Uris, according
to CoStar.  The building is managed by Houston-based Hines Interests
LP, the closely held real estate owner whose chairman is
investor Gerald Hines.  Alyson Grala, a Hines spokeswoman, and Francesca Palermo-
Patera, a Milan-based spokeswoman for Intesa Sanpaolo, both
declined to comment. Telephone calls to Richard Anderman, an
attorney who has represented New Millennium, and Teri Everett, a
 News Corp. (NWSA)  spokeswoman, weren’t immediately returned.  The tower is half a block east of 666 Fifth Ave., where
owner Jared Kushner restructured $1.2 billion of debt earlier
this month in a deal that valued the office portion of the
building at about $835 a square foot, according to a report by
Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP. Vornado Realty Trust, an SL Green
rival, gained a 49.5 percent stake in the tower in that
transaction.  Other neighbors include St. Patrick’s Cathedral and
Rockefeller Center, both about two blocks south.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Taub at 
 dtaub@bloomberg.net  