-- South Korea to Focus on Bank Crisis Management on Europe, North Concerns
-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 2011-12-30T02:35:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-30/south-korea-to-focus-on-bank-crisis-management-on-europe-north-concerns.html
South  Korea ’s financial regulator
told the country’s lenders to keep three months of foreign
currency funding on hand again next year to guard against
potential market unrest stemming from Europe’s debt woes and
risks from  North Korea  after the death of dictator  Kim Jong Il .  The  Financial Services Commission  expects volatility in
international financial markets to increase next year as
Europe’s crisis threatens global economic growth, the regulator
said in a report on its 2012 plans today. The slowing domestic
economy will probably weigh on low-income people and small- to
medium-sized companies, it said.  The  Bank of Korea  forecasts the country’s economic growth
will slow to 3.7 percent next year from 3.8 percent this year.
The commission will encourage local lenders to have enough
foreign-currency liquidity during times of emergency to avoid
the massive capital inflows and outflows that exacerbated the
country’s financial crisis in 2008.  “The FSC will be actively prepared for potential market
unrest such as  Europe ’s fiscal crisis, North Korean political
changes and will take preemptive measures to make our financial
system resilient,” the report said.  North Korean Risk  North Korean dictator Kim’s 17-year reign ended earlier
this month with his death, thrusting Kim Jong Un, thought to be
28 or 29 years old, into the leadership position. North Korea
has the world’s fourth-largest standing army.  Concerns the political outlook in the North could worsen
contributed to a slump in  consumer confidence  in South Korea,
which fell to a three-month low in December, a survey released
Dec. 27 showed. The Kospi slid 3.4 percent on Dec. 19 when the
death was announced, then rallied 4 percent the next two trading
days.  Financial Services Commission Chairman Kim Seok Dong on
Dec. 27 said that “the economy may get much worse” than
expected and vowed to do whatever is needed to stabilize
markets.  The regulator will ask domestic banks to boost loan-loss
reserves and refrain from paying dividends that are too high to
ensure they have buffers for potential losses. It will be
“flexible” in operating capital flow measures such as the cap
on banks’ holding on foreign-currency forwards contracts and
foreign-currency liquidity ratio guidance, the government
commission said today, without elaborating.  Buffer for Loss  The average capital adequacy ratio for 18 local lenders
declined to 14.13 percent as of Sept. 30 from a revised 14.40
percent three months earlier due to a drop in profits and a rise
in riskier assets stemming from a weakening local currency,
according to  Financial Supervisory Service  data. The ratio is a
measure of reserves against assets at risk under Basel II
standards. The banks’ Tier 1 ratio was 11.41 percent compared
with 11.61 percent at the end of June.  The ratio is above the regulator’s guidance of 10 percent
and compares with the 14.69 percent average among stronger
global peer lenders, the FSS said.  South Korea  in 2008 had to guarantee $100 billion of local
lenders’ foreign-currency debt during a global lending drought.
The government has been boosting measures to prevent rapid
capital inflows and outflows from the country, the main cause of
the country’s financial crisis that year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  