-- Streep Dodders as Forgetful Thatcher; Broken Iranian Marriage: Rick Warner
-- B y   R i c k   W a r n e r
-- 2011-12-31T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-30/streep-dodders-as-forgetful-thatcher-broken-iranian-marriage-rick-warner.html
The lacquered hair, the stern look,
the commanding voice:  Meryl Streep  does a splendid impersonation
of  Margaret Thatcher  in “ The Iron Lady .”  Streep has a harder time getting inside Thatcher’s head in
this surprisingly bland biopic about the U.K.’s first and only
female prime minister.  Thatcher was a divisive, transformative figure in British
politics, a woman who overcame gender and class bias to lead a
conservative revolution. “The Iron Lady” boils it all down to
simplistic anecdotes, relayed through tiresome flashbacks.  The film, directed by Phyllida Lloyd (“ Mamma Mia !”) and
written by Abi Morgan (“Shame”), alternates between
contemporary scenes of an elderly, dementia-stricken Thatcher
and earlier episodes documenting her rise from grocer’s daughter
to world’s most powerful woman.  “The Iron Lady” focuses more on her personality than her
politics. Thatcher’s crusades against communism, welfare and
unions -- she faced down striking miners and crushed their
powerful organization -- don’t get as much attention as her
battles with the old-boy network and her tenacious refusal to
mollify critics.  Streep nails Thatcher’s schoolmarm tone and rigid
mannerisms, though the former prime minister’s authorized
biographer claims the actress got the walk wrong: not fast
enough, he says.  Tough Talker  More problematic is the script, which doesn’t give Streep
enough creative space to explore the character. Thatcher alters
her voice to sound more authoritative and changes her wardrobe
to look more businesslike, but rarely do we glimpse the
intellectual power that allowed her to shake up a tradition-
bound country.  Like her political soul mate  Ronald Reagan , Thatcher is
suffering from  memory loss  in her twilight years.  Her admirers may be disturbed by depictions of the now 86-
year-old as a doddering old lady who thinks her late husband
(Jim Broadbent) is still alive and can’t remember where her son
lives. I was more bothered by the film’s shallow treatment of
its subject.  “The  Iron Lady ,” from the Weinstein Co., has opened in
New York and  Los Angeles , with a wide U.S. release on Jan. 13.
Rating: **  ‘A Separation’  Two middle-class Iranian parents sit in plain wooden
chairs, facing the camera as they argue before an unseen marital
judge.  Simin, an attractive redhead wearing a gray headscarf,
wants to leave the country with her husband Nader and their 11-
year-old daughter, Termeh, to seek a better life. Nader, a
bearded bank worker, refuses to go because he wants to care for
his Alzheimer’s-afflicted father.  It’s a simple start to “ A Separation ,” Asghar Farhadi’s
complex, richly rewarding movie about marriage, class and
subterfuge in modern-day  Iran .  When they separate, Simin (Leila Hatami) moves in with her
parents and Nader (Peyman Moadi) stays with his ailing father.
Termeh, played by the director’s daughter Sarina, is forced to
choose sides and lives with her dad.  Nader hires Razieh (Sareh Bayat), a pregnant, deeply
religious young woman, to help care for his father. But after he
accuses her of stealing and neglecting the old man, they get in
a heated argument and Nader pushes her out of the apartment.  Razieh has a miscarriage and blames Nader, leading to back-
and-forth allegations that are all hybrids of truth and fiction.
Farhadi does a masterful job of slowly unraveling the puzzle,
never letting the audience see the big picture until the end.  “A Separation,” from  Sony Pictures Classics , has opened
in New York and Los Angeles, with a wide U.S. release in
January. Persian, with English subtitles. Rating: ****  (Rick Warner is the movie critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Rick Warner in  New York  at 
 rwarner1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 