-- Sumitomo Mitsui to Consider Loans to Tepco on ‘Three Conditions’
-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o
-- 2011-12-30T06:52:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-30/sumitomo-mitsui-to-consider-loans-to-tepco-on-three-conditions-.html
Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group
Inc. (8316) , the main lender to Tokyo Electric Power Co., will consider
additional loans to the utility on three conditions, including
that the embattled company not request debt waivers.  Any new loans to  Tepco, (9501)  which has reported losses of about
1.8 trillion yen ($23 billion) related to the Fukushima nuclear
disaster, will also require the utility to make uninterrupted
compensation payments to those who lost homes and livelihoods
because of radiation fallout.  The other condition is the utility maintain sound business
practices, said a bank spokesman, who declined to have his name
used, citing company rules. He gave no specifics on what those
practices are and added the three conditions were explained by
Koichi Miyata, Sumitomo Mitsui’s president, in interviews with
local media this month.  Tepco shares are trading at the lowest in 60 years, or
since they were listed in 1951, and have lost about $40 billion
in market value since March 10, the day before an earthquake and
tsunami wrecked its Dai-Ichi reactors. The stock is the worst-
performer this year on the MSCI Asia Pacific Index.  Miyata’s remarks follow those in September of Katsunori Nagayasu, chairman of the Japanese Bankers Association and
 Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306)  He expressed bank support
for the utility so long as it didn’t request forgiveness of
loans.  Tepco is considering asking banks for 1 trillion yen worth
of additional loans to pay for the rising cost of fuel for
thermal-power plants, the Asahi Shimbun said today without
citing anyone.  The utility is now dependent on aid from the state-run
Nuclear Damages Facilitation Fund to stay in business. This
week, the utility requested 689.4 billion yen ($8.9 billion) in
additional aid from the fund.  Japan ’s Economy, Trade and Industry Minister  Yukio Edano 
told the company’s management this week it should consider being
nationalized.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  