-- Swiss Team Sion Docked 36 Points for Fielding Ineligible Players
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2011-12-30T16:12:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-30/swiss-team-sion-docked-36-points-for-fielding-ineligible-players.html
Switzerland ’s soccer federation
docked FC Sion 36 points following an ultimatum from the sport’s
governing body that it penalize the team for fielding ineligible
players or find itself banned.  The Swiss Football Association said it made the deduction
based on a formula demanded by FIFA that Sion lose three points
for every game it played while using six players it signed while
under a transfer ban for breaching regulations in 2009.  If the Swiss body hadn’t sanctioned Sion, it would have
been “automatically suspended by FIFA from Jan. 14,” the
federation said in a  statement  on its website.  Before today’s decision, the Swiss national team and all
the country’s qualifiers in European club competitions like
Basel, which eliminated  Manchester United  at the group stages of
the  Champions League , faced bans.  “The Swiss F.A. asks FIFA today to confirm that the
suspension won’t now come into force,” the organization said in
its statement. FIFA said it will look at the matter again in
early January.  Sion labeled the decision “cowardly” and said the Swiss
federation had “bowed to the blackmail of FIFA” and
“collaborated” in an injustice.  “This process virtually condemns the club to
relegation,” the team said in a  statement  on its website.  Sion originally obtained an order from a Swiss court
requesting its reinstatement to the Europa League after it was
banned for using five of the six players in a playoff victory
over  Scotland ’s Celtic. The club also lodged several appeals in
the courts before taking its case to the Court of Arbitration
for Sport, which this month upheld European soccer body UEFA’s
decision.  Sion was given the transfer embargo after it broke rules in
signing Egyptian goalkeeper Essam El-Hadary two years ago. The
points penalty relates to its fielding offseason recruits Stefan
Glarner, Pascal Feindouno, José Julio Gomes Gonçalves, Billy
Ketkeophomphone, Mario Mutsch and Gabriel Garcia de la Tore in
10 league matches and two cup games.  The deduction drops Sion from third down to last place in
the 10-team Swiss Super League with minus-5 points. Sion is also
pursuing a case in a Zurich court against FIFA, arguing its
demands are contrary to Swiss law. The club could also dispute
the points penalty in the Court of Arbitration for Sport.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in  London  at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 