-- Arab Mission Sparks Protests in Syria as Assad Cracks Down
-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r   a n d   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2011-12-30T13:35:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-30/syria-death-toll-rises-as-arab-league-monitors-visit-sparks-mass-protests.html
The  Arab League  mission to  Syria 
seeking to end the violence there has spurred renewed protests
as President Bashar al-Assad presses on with a deadly crackdown.  At least 40 people were killed yesterday and the death toll
has averaged 35 people per day in the past week, Mahmoud Merei,
head of the Arab Organization for Human Rights, said in a
telephone interview today. Al Jazeera reported that security
forces killed 17 people today. Fighting had intensified at Homs,
the center of the opposition to Assad’s regime, before the
monitors’ Dec. 26 arrival there and spread as they moved to
towns including Hama and Daraa yesterday.  “The violence has continued in Syria over the past few
days,” U.K.’s  Middle East  and North Africa Minister Alistair
Burt said in an e-mailed statement today, which follows a phone
call yesterday with the Arab League’s secretary general. “ I
urge the Syrian government to meet fully its obligations to the
Arab League, including immediately ending the repression and
withdrawing security forces from cities,” Burt said.  Syria is at risk of civil war or foreign intervention if
the mission can’t end the unrest, said Burhan Ghalioun, leader
of the Syrian National Council, the umbrella opposition group
that seeks to topple Assad. In Homs, 70,000 people rallied Dec.
26 and 50,000 marched in Duma yesterday, Merei said. The
delegation is getting the “needed cooperation” from all sides,
including Syrian government, the Arab League said today in an e-
mailed statement.  ‘Bigger Demonstrations’  “We are in favor of having Arab observers on the ground,”
Saleh Musalam, a council member, said in an interview with  Al
Jazeera  television. “With the existence of the observers among
people, they were able to hold bigger demonstrations, and it
made the Syrian authorities minimize its attacks on
protesters.”  Syrian security forces blocked Arab League observers from
reaching demonstrators in Duma yesterday, Merei said. Protests
might draw a “larger” crowd today because demonstrators are
emboldened by the observers’ presence, he said.  The  United Nations  estimates that more than 5,000 people
have died since the unrest started in mid-March. Assad has
blamed the violence on foreign provocateurs and his forces have
used tanks, armored vehicles and artillery to crush the
uprising.  Arab League Denial  The Arab League denied media reports citing “the head of
the observers in Syria” in its statement today. News
organizations including Al Jazeera had cited an interview with
Mustafa Dabi, the Sudanese chief of the monitoring contingent,
who they said  told  Reuters that “the situation seemed
reassuring” on the second day of visits.  Syria agreed on Dec. 19 to allow a monthlong visit by the
observers after the league imposed sanctions. The mission will
establish an “operation room” to hear Syrians’ complaints and
will also accept accounts via e-mail and telephone, Arab League
Ambassador Mohamed El-Fateh El-Naserey said in a telephone
interview from Ankara. The Cairo-based organization, which
represents 22 Arab states, is expected to deploy as many as 500
monitors.  Bloomberg News is unable to verify reports of violence as
the Syrian government restricts foreign media access in the
country and places curbs on journalists.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emre Peker in Ankara at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net ;
Zainab Fattah in Dubai at 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Louis Meixler at 
 lmeixler@bloomberg.net  