-- U.K. Home Prices Post First Drop in Four Months, Nationwide Says
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2011-12-30T07:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-30/u-k-home-prices-post-first-drop-in-four-months-nationwide-says.html
U.K. house prices (UKNBAAMM)  declined for the
first time in four months in December and may drop in 2012,
according to  Nationwide Building Society .  The average cost of a home fell 0.2 percent from November
to 163,822 pounds ($252,000), the Swindon, England-based
customer-owned lender said in an e-mailed report today. From a
year earlier, values were up 1 percent.  Next year “isn’t shaping up to be much better than 2011,
for the U.K. economy or the housing market,” Nationwide Chief
Economist Robert Gardner said in the report. “The housing
market in 2012 looks likely to be characterized by low levels of
activity once again, with prices moving sideways or modestly
lower over the course of the year.”  Britain’s housing market has struggled to gain momentum as
inflation and government spending cuts weaken  consumer
confidence  and  Europe ’s debt crisis pushes up bank funding
costs. Nationwide said the U.K. economy will probably grow less
than 1 percent next year and labor-market conditions will
“remain challenging,” crimping demand for housing.  The lender’s 2012 forecast tallies with other predictions
of falling or stagnating U.K. house prices next year. The  Royal
Institution  of Chartered Surveyors and property researcher
Hometrack Ltd. said separately this month that values will fall
about 3 percent in 2012.  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) ’s Halifax
unit, Britain’s largest mortgage provider, said on Dec. 12 that
it saw the cost of a home rising or falling by no more than 2
percent next year.  Bond Purchases  As the euro-area crisis threatens the U.K. recovery, the
 Bank of England  expanded its  bond-purchase program (UKAPTARG)  by 75 billion
pounds to 275 billion pounds on Oct. 6. The bank also kept its
key  interest rate  at a record low of 0.5 percent.  In a separate report today, the  Confederation of British
Industry  said turmoil emanating from the euro region’s debt
crisis is a “significant threat” to the rebalancing of the
U.K. economy toward investment and exports.  “The faltering recovery with family and business budgets
under pressure and the ongoing crisis in the euro zone are stark
reminders of the need to rebalance our economy away from
household and government debt,” CBI Director-General  John Cridland  said in an e-mailed statement. “Rebalancing has to be
the right answer for a stronger U.K. in the years ahead.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  