-- U.K. House Prices Seen Falling in 2012 on Unemployment: Economy
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2011-12-30T11:59:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-30/u-k-house-prices-seen-falling-in-2012-on-unemployment-economy.html
U.K. house prices (UKNBAAMM)  may decline in
2012 as economic turmoil emanating from the euro area’s
sovereign debt crisis pushes up unemployment and undermines
consumer confidence.  The average cost of a home fell 0.2 percent in December
from November, the first monthly drop since August, and values
may drop “modestly” next year, Swindon, England-based
 Nationwide Building Society  said in an e-mailed report today.  Property demand has weakened this year as banks restrict
lending amid the euro-area turmoil and Britons are squeezed by
government spending cuts and tax increases aimed at narrowing
the  budget deficit . Nationwide said the U.K. economy will
probably grow less than 1 percent next year and labor-market
conditions will “remain challenging,” crimping housing demand.  Today’s report “reinforces our view that prices are poised
to fall by around 5 percent in 2012,” said  Howard Archer , an
economist at IHS Global Insight in London. “Should the euro-
zone crisis fail to ease over the coming months or even
deteriorate further, this could well lead the U.K. economy to
suffer significant contraction, push up unemployment and weigh
down on  house prices .”  As the euro-area crisis threatens the U.K. recovery, the
 Bank of England  expanded its  bond-purchase program (UKAPTARG)  by 75 billion
pounds ($116 billion) to 275 billion pounds on Oct. 6. The bank
also kept its key  interest rate  at a record low of 0.5 percent.
It’s “highly unlikely” policy makers will raise borrowing
costs before the second half of 2013 and may keep them on hold
until 2014, Archer said.  Stocks Fluctuate  European stocks fluctuated, with the Stoxx Europe 600 Index
heading for its first annual decline in three years, as German
Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  ruled out a euro-area
breakup. The Stoxx 600 gained 0.2 percent to 242.91 at 10:51
a.m. in  London . The gauge has still retreated 13 percent this
year, the first decline since a 46 percent plunge in 2008, as
the euro region’s sovereign-debt crisis spread.  Global equity markets have lost $6.3 trillion in value this
year as the debt crisis and slowing economic expansion worldwide
weighed on investor demand for riskier assets.  Data today showed  China ’s manufacturing contracted for a
second month in December as the European crisis cut export
demand. A purchasing managers’ index was at 48.7 in December
from 47.7 in November, HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics
said. A reading below 50 indicates a contraction.  ‘Sideways’ Prices  Next year “isn’t shaping up to be much better than 2011,
for the U.K. economy or the housing market,” Nationwide Chief
Economist Robert Gardner said in the report. “The housing
market in 2012 looks likely to be characterized by low levels of
activity once again, with prices moving sideways or modestly
lower over the course of the year.”  The customer-owned lender’s 2012 forecast tallies with
other predictions of falling or stagnating U.K. house prices
next year. The  Royal Institution  of Chartered Surveyors and
property researcher Hometrack Ltd. said separately this month
that values will fall about 3 percent in 2012.  Lloyds Banking
Group Plc (LLOY) ’s Halifax unit, Britain’s largest mortgage provider,
said on Dec. 12 that it saw the cost of a home rising or falling
by no more than 2 percent next year.  Berkeley Group Holdings Plc (BKG) , the best-performing U.K.
homebuilder this year, has benefited by concentrating on London
and southeast England, where house prices have been the most
resilient. Prices in the capital have been boosted by cash-rich
buyers with large deposits taking advantage of cheap  mortgage
rates  and by overseas investors seeking less-risky assets amid
financial volatility and political upheaval in the Middle East.  Yearly Gain  From a year earlier, prices were up 1 percent nationally in
December, led by a 5.5 percent increase in London, Nationwide
said. The divergence leaves values in London 1.6 percent below a
peak reached in 2007, before the start of the financial crisis,
while values across the U.K. are 10 percent below their all-time
highs in the same year, Nationwide said.  In a separate report today, the  Confederation of British
Industry  said turmoil from the debt crisis is a “significant
threat” to the rebalancing of the U.K. economy toward
investment and exports.  “The faltering recovery with family and business budgets
under pressure and the ongoing crisis in the  euro zone  are stark
reminders of the need to rebalance our economy away from
household and government debt,” CBI Director-General  John Cridland  said in an e-mailed statement. “Rebalancing has to be
the right answer for a stronger U.K. in the years ahead.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  