-- U.K. Bonds Prove Best in World as Cameron Sidesteps Stresses in Euro Area
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2011-12-30T11:40:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-30/u-k-bonds-prove-best-in-world-as-cameron-sidesteps-stresses-in-euro-zone.html
The U.K. is home to this year’s best
performing government  bond market  as investors seek a haven in
nations with top credit ratings and their own monetary policy.  Gilts have returned 17 percent on average in 2011,
including reinvested interest, the most among 26 government
markets tracked by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. They beat German debt, considered
the euro area’s safest securities, by more than 7 percentage
points, the most since 1998. U.S. Treasuries made 9.8 percent.  Pacific Investment Management Co., which said last year
that gilts were sitting on a “bed of nitroglycerine,” now
predicts the securities will beat bunds and Treasuries again in
2012. The  Bank of England (UKAPTARG)  has supported the British economy and
the bond market with 249 billion pounds ($384 billion) of  gilt
purchases (UKAPGPT)  since March 2009, a step the  European Central Bank  has
failed to replicate to alleviate stresses in the  euro zone .  “Gilts are doing well because Britain is not in the euro
zone,” Russell Silberston, a money manager at Investec Asset
Management Ltd. in London, said in a Dec. 19 telephone
interview. “The U.K. may not be in a much better shape than
countries in that region, but it has its own currency and
monetary policy to deal with the problem. Investors are willing
to pay premiums for that.”  Investec, F&C Asset Management Plc and DWS Investment GmbH
all say gilts will outperform in coming months.  Beating Bunds  Gilts beat bunds even after  volatility (GUKG10)  is taken into
account. Their so-called risk-adjusted return is 2.27 percent,
versus 1.54 percent for bunds and 1.87 percent for Treasuries,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  New Zealand (NZGATR)  government
bonds returned the most among major markets tracked by
Bloomberg, with a 4.41 percent gain on a risk-adjusted basis.  Standard & Poor’s  put 15 euro nations on watch for a
possible downgrade on Dec. 5, including AAA rated Germany and
 France , saying “systemic stress in the euro zone has risen in
recent weeks.” The U.K., a member of the 27-nation European
Union and which also has S&P’s top ranking, wasn’t affected.  Prime Minister  David Cameron  rejected an EU proposal on
Dec. 9 for greater fiscal integration aimed at ending the euro-
region debt crisis after failing to win safeguards protecting
the nation’s financial services industry. Deputy Prime Minister
 Nick Clegg , the leader of the government’s coalition partner,
the Liberal Democrats, said the decision risked leaving the U.K.
“isolated and marginalized within the European Union.”  Gilt Record  Since then, 10-year gilt yields have fallen 21 basis
points, or 0.21 percentage point, and the pound strengthened 1.8
percent versus the euro, reaching an 11-month high on Dec. 21.
Gilts yielded 13 basis points more than German bunds today,
compared with a 2011 average of 36 basis points and 54 basis
points over the past five years.  U.K. 10-year yields dropped to a  record (GUKG10)  1.932 percent
today, and two-year yields fell to an all-time low 0.271
percent. The 10-year gilt yielded 1.94 percent at 11:32 a.m. in
 London , with the price at 115.79 percent of face value.  “What Cameron did hasn’t changed our view that gilts are
better and safer assets than euro-region bonds,” said  Richard Batty , a global strategist in Edinburgh at Standard Life
Investments Ltd., which has about $242 billion under management.
“The euro zone has yet to deliver on comprehensive measures to
shore up the sovereign issues. The U.K., in contrast, has one of
the strongest fiscal plans which it is delivering on, and it has
a better rating outlook.”  Austerity Measures  Demand for gilts is rising as the U.K.’s economic outlook
dims. U.K. house prices fell for the first time in four months
in December and may drop in 2012,  Nationwide Building Society 
said in a report today. The average cost of a home fell 0.2
percent from November, the customer-owned lender said.  The  Office for Budget Responsibility , Britain’s fiscal
watchdog, lowered its forecasts for economic growth last month
to reflect the turmoil in  Europe , the biggest market for U.K.
goods sold abroad. The Office cut its prediction for this year’s
gross-domestic-product growth to 0.9 percent, from the 1.7
percent it forecast in March, and to 0.7 percent for 2012, from
2.5 percent.  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  responded on
Nov. 29 by saying he would add 23 billion pounds of spending
cuts to the 80 billion pounds he earlier announced, adding two
extra years of austerity to eliminate the structural  deficit (UKPSBR)  by
2017. He also pledged to limit state pay increases to 1 percent
after a two-year freeze ends in 2013.  Moody’s View  Moody’s Investors Service said on Dec. 20 the U.K.’s top
credit rating depends on the government sticking to its fiscal
plan and the economy isn’t immune to the turmoil in the euro
area, where Greece, Portugal and Ireland have sought bailouts
and leaders are struggling to keep the contagion from reaching
Italy and  Spain .  “Although non-euro area sovereigns within the EU -- like
the U.K. -- can be expected to be somewhat cushioned from both
the euro-area sovereign debt crisis and its rating consequences,
no EU sovereign rating can be considered immune to this
crisis,” Moody’s said in a statement.  Britain’s economy will grow 0.6 percent in the first
quarter, while  Germany ’s will expand 0.9 percent, according to
median forecasts in surveys of economists compiled by Bloomberg.
The broader euro-region economy will contract 0.1 percent, a
separate survey shows.  Foreign investors  increased their holdings of gilts by 12.5
billion pounds in October, the most in 18 months, after
purchasing a net 9.2 billion pounds in the previous month,  Bank
of England  data show.  ‘More Precious’  Money managers in  Japan  bought 1.53 trillion yen ($19.7
billion) of U.K. bonds in 2011 through September, set for the
biggest annual purchases since 2008, data from Japan’s Ministry
of Finance showed last month. Japanese investors unloaded the
most debt in Germany, totaling almost 1.46 trillion yen,
followed by sales in Italy and France, the figures show.  “Triple-A bonds will become much more precious, people
will be chasing them,” Hideo Shimomura, who helps oversee the
equivalent of $77 billion in  Tokyo  as chief fund investor at
Mitsubishi UFJ Asset Management Co., said in a Dec. 29 telephone
interview. Shimomura correctly predicted 10-year gilt yields
would fall to 2 percent by year-end. “The U.K. could maintain
its triple-A rating. It’s one of my favorites. Yields will go
down,” he said.  Ten-year gilt yields may drop to 1.5 percent by June 30,
Shimomura said.  Gilt Issuance  Britain’s deteriorating growth outlook prompted the
government to raise its planned gilt issuance for the 12 months
through March by 6.8 percent to 178.9 billion pounds. Citigroup
Inc., one of the U.K. debt agency’s 21 primary dealers, predicts
sales for the next fiscal year will increase to 188 billion
pounds. Germany said on Dec. 21 it will cut debt sales for 2012
to 250 billion euros, from 283 billion euros this year.  The market will have no problem absorbing the additional
gilt supply as long as Britain keeps its top rating, said Helen Roberts, who oversees about 27 billion pounds as head of
 government bonds  at F&C Asset Management in London. Roberts said
she is more concerned about political discord in the coalition
than the increase in bond sales.  ‘At Risk’  “If the coalition government falls, then the whole fiscal
consolidation could fall with it,” Roberts said Dec. 15 in a
telephone interview. “The U.K. rating is based on an
expectation that the austerity measures will continue, and if
that’s not the case, its top credit rating will be at risk.”  DWS, Germany’s biggest mutual fund with about $331 billion
of assets, has a “positive view” on gilts even as the fund
expects the economy to slip into recession in the first quarter.  A slump in the economy will prompt the Bank of England to
expand gilt purchases with newly created money by another 200
billion pounds, said Andreas Burhoi, a senior money manager at
DWS in  Frankfurt . The ECB has refrained from so-called
quantitative easing, relying instead on the provision of
emergency loans to banks to soothe the debt crisis.  “We expect the BOE will stimulate the economy and the gilt
market by easing financial conditions after this round of QE
ends in February,” Burhoi said in an interview on Dec. 21.
“This should support the gilt market,” especially maturities
of 10 years or longer, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  