-- U.S. Says Egypt Agrees to Return Raided Offices’ Property
-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 2011-12-30T21:55:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-30/u-s-says-egypt-agrees-to-return-raided-offices-property-1-.html
Egyptian authorities have agreed to
return property taken in yesterday’s raids on the offices of
U.S. organizations working to promote democracy in the Middle
Eastern nation, State Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland 
said in a statement.  In exchange, U.S. Ambassador to Egypt Anne Patterson has
agreed to hold talks with Egyptian officials to resolve their
concerns over the groups’ operations, Nuland said today. The
property will be returned immediately, raids will cease and
organizations receiving U.S. government funding will be able to
resume normal operations as soon as possible, she said.  U.S. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  “expressed his deep
concern about the raids” in a telephone call today with Field
Marshal Mohamed Hussein Tantawi, head of the military council
ruling Egypt, Pentagon Press Secretary  George Little  said in a
statement. Panetta stressed that Egypt must continue its
democratic transition, Little said.  “He also conveyed his appreciation for Field Marshal
Tantawi’s prompt decision to halt the raids, and to take steps
that will make it easier” for the groups to operate in Egypt,
Little said. The U.S. “remains committed to the strategic
partnership,” he said.  The raids by Egyptian security forces on the offices of
three U.S. democracy-promotion organizations and on those of
Egyptian groups receiving American aid have exacerbated tensions
over recent actions by Tantawi’s Supreme Council of the Armed
Forces. President  Hosni Mubarak , who ruled Egypt for three
decades, was overthrown in February.  Aid at Risk  U.S. concerns prompted Congress to pass legislation this
month conditioning $1.3 billion in annual military aid to Egypt
on progress in the transition to democracy. The U.S. provides
the aid in exchange for the 1979 Camp David peace accords with
 Israel .  “We do have a number of new reporting and transparency
requirements on funding to Egypt that we have to make to the
Congress,” Nuland told reporters yesterday. “The Egyptian
government is well aware of that.”  The Egyptian military’s crackdown might force the Obama
administration to withhold aid because U.S. officials may not be
able to produce the legally-required certification that  Egypt  is
progressing toward civilian rule, said Michele Dunne, a former
White House and State Department policy planner and onetime
diplomat in Cairo.  ‘Building for Months’  “On the orders of the military, the Egyptian government
has gone out and done something they never even did under
Mubarak,” said Dunne, who is director of the Atlantic Council
policy group’s Middle East center. “It’s truly unprecedented,
and this is something that’s been building for months.”  Dunne said she had opposed conditions on aid to Egypt in
the past. In recent months, she said, she changed her stance as
Egyptian authorities escalated their crackdown and their public
accusations that foreign-funded groups were fomenting
demonstrations.  The locations raided included the Cairo offices of the
Washington-based National Democratic Institute, the
International Republican Institute and Freedom House. The groups
conduct training and monitoring and administer other programs to
support the development of democratic institutions, such as
civic-action groups and political parties.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  