-- Ugandan Inflation Slows; Annual Average Highest Since 1992
-- B y   F r e d   O j a m b o
-- 2011-12-30T11:05:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-30/ugandan-inflation-slows-annual-average-highest-since-1992-1-.html
Uganda ’s inflation rate fell to 27
percent in December, bringing the annual average for the year to
18.7 percent, the biggest increase in almost two decades, the
Uganda Bureau of Statistics said.  Inflation slowed from 29 percent in November, Vincent
Nsubuga Musoke, a principal statistician at the bureau, told
reporters today in Kampala, the capital. Inflation for the year
was the highest since the 54.5 percent rate recorded in 1992, he
said.  Uganda’s central bank raised  interest rates  by 10
percentage points since August as inflation surged after the
worst regional drought in six decades boosted food costs and a
weaker shilling made imports more expensive. Prices declined 0.1
percent in December from a month earlier, Musoke said.  “Prices for petrol, firewood, clothing, some household
goods, hairdressing charges and transport fares went up in most
centers during the month,” Musoke said in a statement handed to
reporters, without giving details.  Annual food inflation, which accounts for 27.2 percent of
the consumer-price index, slowed to 34.7 percent from 40.3
percent in November, the agency said.  Prices of green bananas, sweet potatoes, Irish potatoes,
cabbage, tomatoes, carrots, pineapples, beans, groundnuts, maize
flour, fish and sugar declined, offsetting the rise in prices of
oranges, sweet bananas, passion fruits, green pepper and bitter
tomatoes, the statistics office said.  Annual  core inflation , which excludes food crops, fuel,
electricity and metered water slowed to 29.2 percent from 30.6
percent in November, the statistics office said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fred Ojambo in Kampala at 
 fojambo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 