-- Ukraine’s Ex-Premier Tymoshenko Moved to Penal Colony From Jail
-- B y   K a t e r y n a   C h o u r s i n a
-- 2011-12-30T12:08:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-30/ukraine-s-ex-premier-tymoshenko-moved-to-penal-colony-from-jail.html
Ukrainian authorities moved
opposition leader  Yulia Tymoshenko  to a penal colony a week
after a court upheld her seven-year prison term for signing a
gas contract with  Russia  in 2009.  Tymoshenko, a former prime minister, was sent to a colony
in the Kharkiv region in eastern Ukraine at 8 a.m. today,
according to a statement published on the Penitentiary Service’s
 website .  Tymoshenko, 51, was convicted on Oct. 11 of abusing her
authorities as prime minister when signing an agreement on the
import and transit of natural gas from Russia in 2009. The
verdict prompted the European Union to indefinitely delay the
signing of an Association Agreement with the eastern European
nation. The U.S. and Russia have joined the 27-member bloc in
condemning the court’s ruling.  “Neither members of her family nor her defense team were
informed about the transfer,” said Hryhoriy Nemyrya, a former
deputy prime minister and Tymoshenko’s ally. She was shipped to
the colony “despite the grave state of her health and the fact
that she was kept in a medical ward,” Nemyrya said in an e-
mailed statement.  Tymoshenko has denied the accusations and said President
 Viktor Yanukovych  orchestrated the trial against her to sideline
competitors in the parliamentary elections next year.  Public support for Yanukovych’s Party of the Regions fell
to 13.9 percent in December from 16.6 percent a month earlier
and 39.1 percent in April 2010, according to a poll conducted by
the  Razumkov Center for Economic and Political Studies .
Tymoshenko’s party saw its rating rise to 15.8 percent from 13.8
percent.  Moving Tymoshenko to the colony “contradicted the law,”
her lawyer, Serhiy Vlasenko, said in televised remarks.
Tymoshenko had to be kept in a detention center in Kiev because
four other criminal cases against here were reopened by the
country’s tax police last month, Vlasenko said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kateryna Choursina in  Kiev  at 
 kchoursina@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  