-- UN Kyoto Set-Aside May Crimp Supply After 2012, CEPS’ Marcu Say
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2011-12-30T13:04:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-30/un-kyoto-set-aside-may-crimp-supply-after-2012-ceps-marcu-say.html
United Nations  envoys will probably
restrict trading of surplus  Kyoto Protocol  allowances by
countries and crimp an oversupply in carbon markets faster than
expected, said  Andrei Marcu , head of the Centre for European
Policy Studies’ Carbon Market Forum.  Limits on the use of spare Assigned Amount Units, given to
nations with targets under Kyoto’s first commitment period, may
help boost carbon prices next year after they reached a four-
year low on Dec. 14, Marcu, based in Brussels, said yesterday by
phone. CEPS studies areas including rural policy, economics and
climate protection using public and private funding. The first
commitment period runs for the five years through 2012 and the
second will run through 2017 or 2020.  Proposals by some South American and African nations made
near the end of climate-protection talks in Durban,  South
Africa , earlier this month “were very restrictive,” Marcu
said. “This has the potential to represent a significant set-
aside at the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change level
that will translate to the supply-demand balance.”  An oversupply of AAUs hurts carbon prices because a nation
buying the units may then not demand United Nations offset
credits, which can add to a surplus in the European Union
greenhouse gas market, the world’s biggest. Nations with spare
AAUs have sold about 2.6 percent of a potential 9.7 billion
metric tons of the surplus units,  Barclays Capital  estimated
Nov. 14.  UN Certified Emission Reduction credits for December next
year rose 3.2 percent today to 4.20 euros ($5.44) a ton on the
ICE Futures Europe exchange in  London . They have dropped 62
percent this year.  EU Set-Aside  Restricting use of AAUs, as well as potentially offset
credits, under the Clean Development Mechanism and Joint
Implementation programs may help boost carbon prices, Marcu
said. Proposals for a set-aside at the EU level, or the
temporary removal of carbon permits from that market, would also
cut supply, he said.  Limits on the future use of AAUs, CERs and Emission
Reduction Units may require nations with spare allowances or
credits to use them to cover domestic emissions rather than
trade them with other nations, Marcu said.  EU and UN lawmakers are already considering restrictions
after 2012 based on the quality of emission credits, he said.
“The supply-demand balance has to take this into account.” The
market’s decline on Dec. 14 “was probably an overreaction.”  Additional demand from airlines, which are included in the
EU market starting next month, may also boost prices, Marcu
said. Marcu was previously head of regulatory affairs for
Mercuria Energy Group Ltd. and chief executive officer and
founder of the International Emissions Trading Association.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  