-- Hungary’s Bailout Chance Wanes as Lawmakers Snub IMF, EU Over Central Bank
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2011-12-30T15:20:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-30/hungarian-lawmakers-approve-central-bank-law-in-snub-imf-european-union.html
Hungary ’s chances of obtaining a
bailout receded after lawmakers approved new central bank
regulations that prompted the  International Monetary Fund  and
the European Union to break off talks this month.  Parliament in Budapest stripped central bank President
Andras Simor of his right to name deputies, expanded the rate-
setting Monetary Council and created a position for a third vice
president. A separate law approved earlier today makes it
possible to demote the central bank president if the institution
is combined with the financial regulator.  Hungary received its second sovereign credit downgrade to
junk in a month when Standard and Poor’s followed Moody’s
Investors Service in taking the country out of its investment
grade category on Dec. 21. The forint has fallen 15 percent
against the euro since June 30, making it the world’s worst-
performing currency in the period.  “The approval of the central bank law shows the government
isn’t serious about obtaining an IMF loan,” Gabor Orban, who
helps manage $2.5 billion at Aegon Fund Management in Budapest,
said in a phone interview. “The government is floating the
possibility of an IMF deal but in reality it’s playing for time,
hoping the global economy will improve and make a bailout
unnecessary.”  Forint Weakens  The forint weakened 1 percent against the euro and traded
at 313.4 per euro at 4:05 p.m. in Budapest, extending its loss
this year 11 percent, the biggest since at least 1999. The yield
on the government’s 10-year bonds was near the highest level
since June 2009 at 9.9 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Hungary raised less than half the planned amount at a debt
auction yesterday as borrowing costs surged to the highest in
more than a year and the state rejected all bids for three-year
notes. The 2022 bond’s yield was at 9.7 percent.  European Commission President  Jose Barroso  plans to be
“constructive and avoid any escalation of the situation” after
the passage of the central bank law, commission spokesman Joe
Hennon said by telephone in Brussels today.  ‘In-Depth’ Examination  “We will be assessing the legal scope of the new laws,”
Hennon said today in Brussels. “We have reiterated our concerns
to the Hungarian authorities in the past few days.”  Earlier, Barroso sent a letter to Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  outlining the commission’s views, Hennon said.  The new central bank regulations “seriously harm” the
country’s national interests, allow for political intervention
in monetary policy and threaten economic stability, the Magyar
Nemzeti Bank said today. The laws have led to the “indefinite
postponement” of talks on a financial aid package, the central
bank said in a  statement  posted on its website.  While a possible Hungarian agreement with the IMF and the
EU on an assistance package would boost confidence, the Cabinet
can do without it, Orban told MR1 radio in an interview today.  “If we have an IMF safety net, then we face the coming
period with greater self-confidence and greater security,”
Orban said. “If we don’t reach an agreement, we’ll still stand
on our own feet.”  Yields Soar  The government asked for IMF aid last month to ensure
financing next year as yields soared, debt auctions fell short
of targets, the forint weakened to a record against the euro and
S&P signaled a potential downgrade. An IMF-led aid package would
bolster Hungary’s policy credibility, S&P said on Dec. 21.  Hungary will have the highest debt level and slowest
economic growth among the EU’s eastern members next year, the
European Commission  forecast  on Nov. 10.  Tamas Fellegi, the Hungarian minister in charge of
negotiations, will travel to  Washington  in the first half of
January to hold “informal” talks with IMF Managing Director
 Christine Lagarde  and other fund officials, the MTI newswire
reported, citing Fellegi’s press office.  Orban shunned the IMF aid after taking office last year to
protect what he called “unorthodox” measures from oversight.
The steps included the effective nationalization of $13 billion
of private pension-fund assets and extraordinary industry taxes
to control the budget, which had a deficit of 182 percent of the
Cabinet’s full-year target at the end of November.  Hindering Growth  Hungary also forced banks to swallow losses on foreign-
currency mortgages. The measures may hinder economic growth and
are “likely to depress investment and job creation in the short
term,” S&P said.  The IMF and the EU have yet to decide on resuming talks
with Hungary. Negotiations can’t resume until Hungary indicates
it’s ready to accept policy conditions as part of a stand-by
arrangement, Reuters reported on Dec. 28, citing  Christoph Rosenberg , the IMF mission chief to Hungary.  Hungary is ready to contest the European Commission in the
courts over differences on the new central bank regulation,
Orban told MR1 in an interview today. While Hungary has agreed
to most of the changes demanded by the EU, differences remained
on two points, he said.  The government stuck to expanding the number of rate-
setting council members to as many as nine from seven to
expanding the number of vice presidents to three from two.  Independent Institutions  Orban has been reducing the power of independent
institutions and asserting his influence since winning elections
last year, bucking objections from the U.S. and the  United
Nations .  Ruling-party lawmakers ousted the chief justice of the
 Supreme Court , narrowed the jurisdiction of the  Constitutional
Court , wrote a new constitution, replaced an independent Fiscal
Council with one dominated by the premier’s allies, created a
media regulator led by ruling-party appointees and chose a party
member to lead the State Audit Office.  One judge, Tunde Hando, the wife of a ruling party member,
will be responsible for naming all new judges, including
replacing scores who will be forced into retirement at the end
of this year.  “We have significant and well-founded concerns,” U.S.
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  wrote in a Dec. 23 letter to
Orban, according to Nepszabadsag newspaper, which published the
letter in Hungarian today. Clinton called on Orban to protect
individual liberties and checks and balances, Nepszabadsag said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  