-- Vazquez Mota Aims to Deliver 6% Mexico Growth If Voted President
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n   a n d   A d r i a n a   L o p e z   C a r a v e o
-- 2011-12-30T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-30/vazquez-mota-aims-to-deliver-6-mexico-growth-if-voted-president.html
Mexican presidential contender
Josefina Vazquez Mota said she’ll seek to boost economic growth
to an annual rate of “at least” 6 percent to 7 percent if
elected in next July’s vote.  The former education minister with the ruling  National
Action Party  said passing laws that make it easier for companies
to hire and fire workers, attracting private investment to
Mexico’s state-heavy oil industry and boosting tax collection
will stimulate growth in  Latin America ’s second-biggest economy.
That in turn will encourage employers to add the 1 million jobs
per year that Mexico requires to relieve poverty.  “Doubling the rate of growth, which we are proposing now,
would permit us, if not to totally satisfy the demand for jobs
in the formal employment market, then to get much closer to
it,” Vazquez Mota, 50, said yesterday in an interview in Mexico
City.  Growth over the past decade has averaged just 2 percent and
is set to slow to 3.2 percent in 2012 from 3.9 percent this
year, according to 26 economists and consulting firms in a
 central bank survey  published Dec. 16. Mexico’s central bank
estimates that employers will add no more than 620,000 so-called
formal jobs this year and 600,000 in 2012.  Polling Numbers  While the mounting death toll stemming from President
Felipe Calderon’s crackdown on drug cartels has cost his party
support across the country, Vazquez Mota is emerging as the main
challenger to the early frontrunner Enrique Pena Nieto of the
once-dominant  Institutional Revolutionary Party , or PRI.  In a three-way race, she enjoyed 20 percent support
compared with 16 percent for  Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador , who
Calderon defeated by a narrow margin in 2006, according to the
latest poll by Mexico City-based Consulta Mitofsky. Pena Nieto
had 45 percent support among the 1,000 people surveyed Nov. 21-
27 nationwide by Mitofsky. The poll had a margin of error plus
or minus 3.1 percentage points.  First, the only woman seeking the presidency on July 1 must
defeat rivals competing for the nomination of Calderon’s party,
known as the PAN. Vazquez Mota said she’s confident she’ll win a
Feb. 5 primary, citing polls that give her more than 50 percent
support from fellow party members.  Vazquez Mota led her nearest PAN competitor, former Senator
Santiago Creel, by 17 percentage points in the November poll by
Mitofsky.  After serving as education minister, Vazquez Mota headed
her party in the lower house of Congress. During President
Vicente Fox’s administration, she served as social development
minister.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nacha Cattan in  Mexico  City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net ;
Adriana Lopez Caraveo in Mexico City at 
 adrianalopez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  