-- Victims’ Tears for Dictators Honor Their Shared Past: Junheng Li
-- B y   J u n h e n g   L i
-- 2011-12-30T00:01:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-30/victims-tears-for-dictators-honor-a-shared-past-commentary-by-junheng-li.html
I was born in China in 1976, just a
few months before the death of  Mao Zedong . So when I saw footage
of thousands of North Koreans in tears after the death of  Kim Jong Il , their leader, two thoughts hit me hard. One: They must
be brainwashed. And two: Were we Chinese that brainwashed under
Mao?  Curious, I called my mother in  Shanghai . Both of my parents
were survivors of Mao’s brutal Cultural Revolution. Like
countless others, they were taken out of urban schools and sent
to rural areas to be “re-educated,” weaned off bourgeois
culture. And they were the lucky ones -- they survived a
campaign that killed millions.  “Were you relieved when Chairman Mao died?” I asked.  “Not at all!” my mother said without hesitation. “People
were genuinely sad.”  This seemed preposterous. “How could you feel sad at the
death of a criminal -- someone who robbed you of your youth by
sending you to a backwater to hoe turnips?”  “The country was completely closed and isolated,” she
said. “Communism was a religion, and doubting your leader was
out of the question.”  Her use of the word “religion” triggered a memory. In
September 2007, I was working as a hedge-fund analyst in  New
York , and I traveled to Beijing to visit a dozen or so Chinese
companies that were listed in the U.S.  Mao’s Loyalists  It was a beautiful fall afternoon and I had a few hours to
stroll downtown. A Chinese businessman offered to be my guide.
As we ambled through Tiananmen Square, with its enormous mural
of Mao, I spotted amid the fashionable urban Chinese a group of
not-so-chicly attired tourists from the hinterlands. All of a
sudden, they dropped to their knees and began kowtowing to the
Mao portrait.  “Wow,” I thought. Having lived in the U.S. for almost a
decade, I had assumed that Mao worship was a relic of the
distant past and that most Chinese had come to the conclusion
that Mao had been a cruel dictator, regardless of his intentions
or convictions.  The CEO saw my reaction and started to laugh. “You’ve been
away too long,” he said. “This scene takes place every day.”  He went on: “Mao is a religion and always will be. He made
mistakes in his later years, but his intentions were good. He
truly believed that a totalitarian state was the best political
system for  China . He was a world-class politician and a true
leader.”  The memory vanished as I refocused on my mother’s voice.  “Blind conviction is the definition of religion,” she
said. “The Cultural Revolution is long over. What’s the use of
dwelling on it? We are all good and happy now.”  And there was a partial answer. If Chinese, long removed
from Mao’s tyranny, still embraced the man, it should come as no
surprise that North Koreans, still very much in thrall to the
Kim dynasty, feel genuine sorrow at the loss of their leader.  But there was also a bigger question: What did this suggest
about our future? When does the spell break?  There was a clue, it seemed, in my mother’s candor and her
refusal to regret crying for someone who, in so many ways,
damaged her life profoundly. You can renounce a religion, but
it’s much harder to disown your own past, particularly when you
share that past with many others.  Maybe it’s different when you take part in a mass movement
to overthrow a dictator -- a  Muammar Qaddafi , say, or a  Saddam Hussein . When rebellion or invasion prompts a nation to judge
its ruler, the triumph, the shared effort of defeating evil,
gives people a chance to own their past miseries. However, when
one is simply released from repression by the dictator’s death,
there’s no shared vindication. “Forgetting” --- as China has
done with the Cultural Revolution --- might just be the easiest
choice.  My Father’s Dreams  There are exceptions to the rule. My father, for one.  “Dad must have been relieved when Mao died, right?” I
asked.  My mother snorted. The answer was so obvious that she would
not even indulge the question.  The Cultural Revolution seemed to traumatize my father in
unique ways. His dreams and ambitions as an impressionable and
hot-blooded young man were dashed by Mao’s policies. My guess is
that the Cultural Revolution made him cynical about anything and
everything around him. Distrustful of the state media, he bought
a portable radio and listened to Voice of America obsessively.
When I was a little girl, he instructed me not to believe out of
hand anything printed in the People’s Daily.  Many Chinese people know now what my father understood
decades ago and yet we don’t talk about it much; some of us
continue to kowtow in Tiananmen Square, keeping the fiction of
Mao’s greatness alive.  In this way, we’re not all that different from our North
Korean brethren. Our collective “forgetting” prevents us from
accepting the cause of our past tragedies. However painful, this
reckoning must happen if we are ever able finally to reject the
censorship and propaganda that still enforce our “isolation.”  (Junheng Li is the founder and senior equity analyst of JL
Warren Capital LLC, an independent equity research firm in New
York. The opinions expressed are their own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Junheng Li at  junhli@yahoo.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
David Shipley at   djshipley@bloomberg.net  