-- Wharton Graduate Convicted in $21 Million Bank-Fraud Case
-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 2011-12-30T18:59:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-30/wharton-graduate-convicted-in-21-million-new-york-bank-fraud-case.html
A Wharton business school graduate
and former University of  North Carolina  basketball player who
ran a  New York  holding company was convicted by a jury in a $21
million bank-fraud case.  Courtney Dupree, 42, was found guilty today in federal
court in Brooklyn, New York. He was accused of lying about
receivables to New York-based Amalgamated Bank to get and
maintain the  credit line  for his Long Island City-based holding
company GDC Acquisitions LLC, which owned lighting and furniture
dealers.  The trial began Dec. 6 and the jury deliberated for about
5 1/2 hours. Amalgamated realized $16 million in losses because
of the crime, according to the government. Dupree was chief
executive officer of GDC.  “This is a case about lying to a bank to get money,”
Assistant U.S. Attorney David Woll told jurors during the trial.
“It is about telling lies over and over again in order to grab
millions of dollars of the bank’s money.”  Thomas Foley, 45, a lawyer in Hoboken,  New Jersey , who was
the company’s outside counsel until he became its chief
operating officer, was acquitted today of conspiracy, bank fraud
and making a false statement.  “You can never express in words the pressure,” Foley said
after he was acquitted. “It’s a difficult process. But everyone
told me to have faith in the system.”  Basketball Player  Dupree was found guilty of conspiracy to commit bank fraud,
bank fraud and two counts of making a false statement. He faces
as many as 30 years in prison on the most serious charge,
according to a statement by U.S. Attorney Loretta Lynch in
Brooklyn.  Dupree’s lawyer, Roscoe C. Howard of Andrews Kurth LLP in
 Washington , declined to comment on the guilty verdict.
 Robert Nardoza , a spokesman for Lynch, declined to comment on
Foley’s acquittal.  Dupree played basketball for the University of North
Carolina at  Chapel Hill  and earned a master’s of business
administration from the Wharton School at the  University of
Pennsylvania .  Before starting GDC, he worked at former New York
investment bank Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., Howard said in
his opening statement, without elaborating on his position. He
was a vice president of investment banking there between 1998
and 2002, according to his LinkedIn page.  Fundraiser  In 2008 at his Broad Street apartment in New York’s
financial district, Dupree hosted  Valerie Jarrett , an adviser to
 Barack Obama , for a $1,000-a-ticket fundraiser for the then-U.S.
presidential candidate, according to  Elle magazine .  Dupree has been in custody since March when he was arrested
again on new charges that he schemed to defraud Amalgamated and
U.S. District Judge Kiyo A. Matsumoto, who is presiding over the
trial, denied him bail. Prosecutors said Dupree took about
$331,000 in customer payments to a GDC subsidiary for his
personal use. He still faces being tried on that charge.  In the original scheme alleged, in August 2008 several GDC
units, with the parent as guarantor, reached an agreement with
Amalgamated that allowed them to borrow as much as $21 million,
according to the indictment.  Fictitious Sales  The defendants booked fictitious sales, prematurely
recognized sales, re-dated sales and failed to reduce
receivables after being paid by customers, according to the
indictment.  The defendants also tried to get about $5 million in
funding from C3 Capital LLC, a private-equity investment firm,
by submitting reports that inflated GDC’s accounts receivable,
though C3 never gave any money the government said.  “Executives who abuse positions of influence and trust
should expect to be investigated and prosecuted to the full
extent of the law,” Lynch, the federal prosecutor, said in a
statement.  Three former GDC accountants, Emilio Serrano, Irma
Nusfaumer and Frank Patello, who all pleaded guilty, testified
at the trial for the government. Dupree also took the witness
stand in his own defense.  Among GDC’s subsidiaries were lighting distributor JDC
Lighting, lighting maintenance company Unalite Electric &
Lighting and furniture distributor Hudson Bay Environments
Group, according to the indictment.  The case is U.S. v. Dupree, 10-cr-627, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of New York ( Brooklyn ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in Brooklyn, New York, federal court at
   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 