-- Wheat Resumes Rally as Dry Weather Threatens to Reduce Global Grain Supply
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2011-12-30T20:13:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-30/wheat-resumes-rally-as-dry-weather-threatens-to-reduce-global-grain-supply.html
Wheat futures rose for the ninth
time in 10 sessions on speculation that dry weather from  Ukraine 
to  Argentina  will limit global grain supplies.  Ukraine’s winter-wheat crop is in “poor condition” after
persistent dry weather, and the lack of snow cover may leave
crops vulnerable to damaging cold, Telvent DTN said today in a
forecast. The country’s grain exports fell 9.3 percent in
December from November, UkrAgroConsult said. A lack of
sufficient rain also may hurt developing corn and soybean plants
in Argentina, DTN said.  “A month ago, we all thought we were going to drown in
wheat from Ukraine, and now all of a sudden, they’ve scaled
their exports back,”  Jason Britt , the president of brokerage
Central States Commodities Inc., said by telephone from Kansas
City,  Missouri . “With the corn and bean markets doing what
they’re doing, that’s sure helping our exports.”  Wheat futures for March delivery rose 1.2 percent to settle
at $6.5275 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the Chicago Board of Trade.
The price is up 13 percent since mid-December. Futures still
dropped 18 percent this year, capping the biggest annual slump
since 2008, on increasing world output.  U.S. exporters sold 431,213 metric tons of wheat in the
week ended Dec. 22, 19 percent more than a week earlier, the
 U.S. Department of Agriculture  said today. Wheat can be used as
an alternative to corn and soybeans in livestock feed.  Wheat also may have gotten a boost from speculators buying
contracts to close out bearish short positions, or bets prices
will fall, Britt said.  Hedge funds  and other  speculators (.MMWANET)  have
cut net-short positions by 17 percent since Nov. 22, when funds
were the most bearish since at least 2006, U.S. Commodity
Futures Trading Commission data show.  Wheat is the fourth-largest U.S. crop, valued at $13
billion in 2010, behind corn, soybeans and hay, government data
show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at   sstroth@bloomberg.net  