-- Whirlpool Seeks Duties on LG, Samsung Clothes-Washer Imports
-- B y   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n
-- 2011-12-30T19:27:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-30/whirlpool-seeks-duties-on-lg-samsung-clothes-washer-imports.html
Whirlpool Corp. (WHR) , the world’s largest
maker of appliances, asked the U.S. to impose duties on clothes-
washer imports from rivals  LG Electronics Inc. (066570)  and Samsung
Electronics Co. for violating international trade laws.  LG and Samsung sell residential washers made in Mexico and
 South Korea  for less than the products’ fair value, undermining
competition and threatening U.S. jobs, Whirlpool said in
complaints filed today in Washington with the International
Trade Commission and the Commerce Department. Whirlpool also
sought countervailing duties against imports from South Korea,
saying that country’s government provides unfair subsidies.  “It is important for an open global trading system to have
a process for enforcement to maintain the integrity of the
system and provide all manufacturers a level playing field on
which to compete,” Marc Bitzer, president of Whirlpool  North
America , said in a statement.  LG is reviewing the petition, spokesman  John Taylor  said in
an e-mail.  “LG strongly rejects any suggestion that it has sold
clothes washers at dumped prices or that it has been unfairly
subsidized,” Taylor said. “LG intends to vigorously defend
itself against these baseless claims.”  Ethan Rasiel, a  Samsung (005930)  spokesman, said in an e-mail that
he declined to comment.  Refrigerator Complaint  The Commerce Department responded in October to a separate
Whirlpool complaint, finding that LG and Samsung dumped bottom-
mount refrigerators at low cost. Samsung of Suwon, South Korea,
faces a tariff of 36.65 percent for refrigerators produced in
Mexico and 32.2 percent for those from South Korea based on the
preliminary findings, the department said. LG of Seoul will pay
16.44 percent for products made in Mexico and 4.09 percent on
South Korea units.  Whirlpool, based in Benton Harbor, Michigan, employs 3,500
workers at its factory in Clyde, Ohio, between Toledo and
Cleveland, where the washers are made. The company has invested
$175 million to produce energy- and water-efficient appliances,
according to the statement.  The ITC may issue a preliminary finding in February, while
the Commerce Department may release a decision in May, Whirlpool
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William McQuillen in  Washington  at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  