-- Hypo Alpe Gets More Time to Meet Regulator’s Capital Demands
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2011-12-30T11:04:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-30/hypo-alpe-gets-more-time-to-meet-regulator-s-capital-demands-1-.html
Hypo Alpe-Adria-Bank International
AG, a nationalized Austrian lender, said a deadline to raise its
capital ratio was extended by nine months through the end of
next year by the country’s financial-markets regulator.  Hypo Alpe, whose main assets are its banks in the former
 Yugoslavia , has to raise its “own funds” ratio to 12 percent
from 10.5 percent at the end of October, the Klagenfurt,
Austria-based lender said in a statement today. The
Finanzmarktaufsicht regulator had previously given the company
until March to reach the ratio, which would have been the
equivalent of raising 1.5 billion euros of capital ($1.9
billion).  “The deadline extension recognizes the bank’s successful
revamp of its risk management and its  risk reduction  by way of
winding down, selling and restructuring assets,” Hypo Alpe said
in the statement. The precise amount needed to reach the capital
demand will depend on asset reductions next year, it added. The
“own funds” ratio is a broad measure of reserves under
Austrian banking law that includes hybrid and subordinated debt
on top of common stock.  Austria took over Hypo Alpe in December 2009 to avert the
bank’s collapse after an increase in bad debts, mostly linked to
real-estate projects in the former Yugoslavia, and after former
owners including  Germany ’s  Bayerische Landesbank (BLGZ)  withdrew their
support. The lender has posted three consecutive annual losses
since 2008 totaling 3.2 billion euros and  almost a third of its
loan book  is overdue or in default.  Hypo Alpe sought to sell its Italian and Austrian units
this year and then put the planned disposals on ice after a
decline of  European banks’ share prices (BEBANKS)  in the second half made
it less likely it could offload the businesses at book value.
The firm now is preparing to sell its banks in  Croatia ,  Serbia ,
Slovenia, Montenegro and Bosnia and Herzegovina next year, the
lender said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  