-- Zell Archstone Stake Would ‘Impair’ Asset Value, Lehman Says
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2011-12-30T21:58:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-30/zell-archstone-stake-would-impair-asset-value-lehman-says-1-.html
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  said
 Sam Zell ’s Equity Residential would be a “contentious” partner
in Archstone and impair the value of bankrupt Lehman’s biggest
real-estate asset, according to a court filing.  Lehman, which is trying to gain control of Archstone, made
the statement today in support of its plan to pay about $1.3
billion for 26.5 percent of Archstone held by  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC)  and  Barclays Plc. (BARC)  Equity Residential had offered to buy
the stake and retains an option on the banks’ remaining 26.5
percent stake.  Lehman aims to sell or liquidate Archstone for $6 billion
to help pay creditors with claims of about $370 billion, and to
do that must gain control of the company, according to a person
familiar with the plan. Zell, with a 26.5 percent stake, could
thwart all of Lehman’s plans for Archstone, Jeffrey Fitts,
Lehman’s co-head of real estate, said in the court filing.  Equity Residential (EQR)  could “single-handedly drive down the
value of Archstone and hinder the debtors’ ability to exit their
investment in Archstone,” he said. It would even have “power
to veto major financing and external growth decisions, formation
and approval of budgets.”  Zell didn’t immediately respond to e-mails seeking comment
on Lehman’s filing. Yesterday, Equity Residential, Archstone’s
biggest rival in the apartment business, told a judge it
urgently needed to intervene in court proceedings over Archstone
to protect its rights in the deal, including a so-called breakup
free if Lehman buys the bank’s whole 53 percent stake.  Liquidation Plan  Lehman, which is trying to carry out a $65 billion
liquidation plan to pay creditors, expects to get back within 12
months and distribute to creditors “whatever estate funds are
used” to pay the banks for their Archstone stake, Fitts said.
Lehman will use equity partnerships, asset sales, joint ventures
and other means to “repatriate” the money, he said.  Archstone, which Lehman acquired in a $22 billion leveraged
buyout with Tishman Speyer Properties LP, has ownership
interests in hundreds of apartment developments from Washington
and  New York  to San Francisco.  The main case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.,
08-13555,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York
(Manhattan). Lehman’s lawsuit is Archstone LB Syndication
Partner LLC v. Banc of America Strategic Venture Inc. (In re
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.), 11-02928, U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
Southern District New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York
at   lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Stephen Farr  at   sfarr@bloomberg.net . 