-- Hacker Group Anonymous Intercepted U.S. Call Over Investigation
-- B y   M i c h a e l   R i l e y   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-02-04T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/hacker-group-anonymous-intercepted-call-between-fbi-u-k-tied-to-probe.html
The U.S. government said the online
hacker group Anonymous intercepted a telephone call between FBI
agents and U.K. authorities involving a joint investigation of
the group.  Members of the hacker-activist group obtained details on a
Jan. 17 conference call, including dial-in information, and
posted a recording of it on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s YouTube website and
other Internet sites, according to messages posted on Twitter
accounts associated with Anonymous members.  Barrett Brown , an informal spokesman for Anonymous, said
that in an unrelated attack a team of hackers had also stolen
more than two years’ worth of e-mails and attachments relating
to the 2005 Haditha massacre, in which 24 Iraqi civilians died.
He said the e-mails would be posted shortly on a file-sharing
site accessible by the public.  The phone recording suggests a significant security breach
of  Federal Bureau of Investigation  protocols, according to E.J.
Hilbert, a former agent in the bureau’s cyber security division.
Hilbert said the recording suggests federal investigators
weren’t identifying everyone on the call as they dialed in.  “It sounds like somebody screwed up -- it’s as simple as
that,” said Hilbert, now a partner at Kroll Inc., the New York-
based security firm.  Infiltration Efforts  The 16-minute call detailed confidential aspects of the
investigation into Anonymous by the FBI and U.K. law
enforcement. It included information on efforts to infiltrate
the group through means including informers.  “The information was intended for law enforcement officers
only and was illegally obtained,” Jenny Shearer, a spokeswoman
for the FBI’s cyber division, said in an e-mail yesterday
confirming the breach. “A criminal investigation is under way
to identify and hold accountable those responsible.”  She didn’t dispute or confirm the authenticity of the
recording posted on YouTube.  Calls to the Metropolitan Police in  London  weren’t
immediately answered.  The hackers who recorded the law enforcement call were also
involved in stealing the e-mails from the computer servers of
Puckett & Faraj, the  law firm  that represented Staff Sergeant
Frank Wuterich, one of the marines accused in actions related to
the deaths of Iraqi civilians, Brown said.  Law Firm Website  A person who answered the phone at Puckett & Faraj’s
offices in Alexandria,  Virginia , said the firm had no comment
beyond confirming that its website was down. The person declined
to give her name.  “The guys who did this are the best we have,” Brown said,
referring to the Anonymous members who stole the e-mails and
intercepted the FBI call.  Brown said the e-mails, which go back as far as 2009, may
contain evidence and undisclosed details about the Haditha
incident, as well as other cases the firm has worked on.  Wuterich, who won’t serve jail time, took responsibility
for the deaths during a sentencing hearing in January. His
sentence, handed down in a military court, included a reduction
in pay and a demotion, and may have motivated the attack by
Anonymous, according to several Twitter posts on accounts
associated with the group.  Disclosures on Call  Among the potentially serious disclosures in the call, U.K.
investigators revealed that they know the identity of two top
Anonymous members and they are temporarily delaying new charges
and another round of arrests at the request of the FBI.  “We’ve got our prosecutorial counsel making an application
in chambers without the defense knowing, to seek a way to try
and factor some time,” one of the U.K. investigators can be
heard saying on the recording of the call posted on YouTube.  The agents can also be heard discussing an Anonymous member
who goes by the nickname TehWongZ, who they said is a 15-year-
old boy arrested just before Christmas. Investigators said the
teenager had confessed to hacking the Manchester Credit Union.  A Metropolitan Police official on the recording said
TehWongZ is also linked to the hack of a gaming site, including
the theft of the names, logins and credit-card numbers of 32,000
users. The FBI agents said the intrusion was under investigation
by the FBI in Baltimore. The youth admitted to his acts, the
U.K. officials said on the call.  “Looks like he’s cleaning the slate now that he’s come to
the notice of police,” one of the officials can be heard
saying. “I suspect a smack from mom or dad is behind it all.”  Some Twitter accounts of the infiltration said Anonymous
broke into the e-mail accounts of investigators to gain the
call-in details.  “The FBI might be curious how we’re able to continuously
read their internal comms for some time now,” an Anonymous
member posted on an account linked to the group.  Hilbert said the agents also may have been re-using the
same line and pass code for conference calls with investigative
partners.  “If anybody should be checking who’s on their calls, it
should be the government -- especially these guys,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Riley in Washington at 
 mriley17@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 phurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  