-- AIG ‘Playing Offense’ Again With Share Repurchases, Chairman Miller Says
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r   a n d   C a r o l   M a s s a r
-- 2012-02-03T05:01:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/aig-playing-offense-again-with-share-repurchases-chairman-miller-says.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) ,
the insurer that sold more than $50 billion in assets to repay a
U.S. government rescue, is now focused on growth and returning
capital to investors, Chairman  Steve Miller  said.  “We’ve stopped playing defense, we’re back playing
offense,” Miller said in an interview airing today on Bloomberg
Television, citing a $1 billion stock buyback announced in
November. “We have high confidence in the future of this
company, and we’re willing to put our money where our mouth is
and talk about repurchasing of shares.”  The pace of  asset sales  at New York-based AIG has slowed
since late 2010, when the insurer disclosed a plan to pay back
the government. Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche , 67,
has focused on improving returns at the insurer’s global
property-casualty unit and U.S. life and retirement division as
he seeks to attract private investors to replace the Treasury
Department’s 77 percent  stake .  Miller said the strategy could include buying non-U.S. life
insurance businesses, including  AIA Group Ltd. (1299) , the Hong Kong-
based company that is one-third owned by AIG. Benmosche sold a
majority stake in the Asian company 2010 to help pay back the
bailout. AIG also may consider other ways of growing outside the
U.S., Miller said.  “When the timing is right we will make the decision to
either get out completely or to get back in on AIA,” Miller
said in the interview, which was taped this week at the annual
M&A Advisor Distressed Investing Summit in  Palm Beach ,  Florida .
AIG isn’t “plotting an attack on AIA right now,” he said.  AIA Stake  Reacquiring AIA or getting rid of the stake completely
could reduce swings in AIG’s quarterly earnings, since the
holding is marked to market every three months. AIG posted a
$4.11 billion  third-quarter loss  in November, partly fueled by a
$2.3 billion decline in the value of its AIA shares.  The Asian insurer’s stock climbed  8.7 percent  in the last
three months of 2011 and may add $950 million to AIG’s fourth-
quarter results, which will be released later this month,
according to an estimate by Adam Klauber, an analyst at William
Blair & Co. Reuters reported last week on AIG’s possible
interest in increasing its AIA stake, citing Miller.  The insurer has called its plane-leasing unit International
Lease Finance Corp. a non-core asset and disclosed plans in
September to sell more than 20 percent of the unit in a public
offering. Miller said AIG hopes to complete that transaction
this year.  AIA shares and ILFC “resulted in significant losses to
earnings and book value over the past several years,” Klauber
said in a note to clients last week. “A key to the investment
thesis for AIG is that these non-core items will not overwhelm
the core businesses.” He has a “ market perform ” rating on the
insurer and said it’s a stock to own “over the long term.”  Stock Rebound  AIG has climbed 13 percent this year through yesterday to
$26.31 after slumping 52 percent last year. The insurer trades
at about 60 percent of book value, a measure of assets minus
liabilities. That ratio motivated the buybacks, Miller said.  “We’re not doing it to try and influence the stock price
itself,” he said. “We just happen to think it is a good
investment for our own shareholders to buy back shares at the
current  price levels .”  The Treasury, which sold 200 million shares in May at $29
each, needs to sell stock at about that price to break even on
its investment. The department hasn’t said when it will sell
more AIG stock.  “Somewhere in the next year or two or three, I don’t know
how long it’s going to take, the stock price will become
sufficiently attractive that the  U.S. Treasury  will monetize its
interest and the taxpayers will be out and done,” Miller said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net ;
Carol Massar in New York at 
 cmassar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net . 