-- Malev Airline Stops Services After 66 Years as Hungary Moves to Cut Losses
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2012-02-03T14:42:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/malev-stops-flying-after-66-years-as-hungary-cuts-its-losses.html
Malev Zrt. (MALEV) , the state-owned Hungarian
airline founded in 1946, ceased flying after the government
withdrew financing, becoming the second victim of European
austerity measures in a week after the collapse of Spanair SA.  Malev, which has debts of 60 billion forint ($270 million),
halted flights at 6 a.m. local time, with police guarding its
ticket booth at Budapest’s main Liszt Ferenc airport as hundreds
of passengers milled around seeking to rebook or get a refund.  “What we fretted about the most and what we’ve done the
most to avert has come to pass,” Chief Executive Officer Lorant Limburger said in a statement, adding that Malev’s cash-flow
became “untenable” after service providers “lost faith” and
a European Commission ruling hindered further state support.  Governments are becoming reluctant to prop up airlines as
 Europe ’s debt crisis forces the region’s deepest cost cuts in a
generation. Barcelona-based Spanair ceased flying Jan. 27 after
failed bid talks prompted Catalonia to halt funding, and  Sweden ,
Ireland,  Portugal ,  Poland  and the  Czech Republic  are also
seeking to reduce state support for carriers.  Ryanair Ramp-up  “Grounding Malev is painful,” Hungarian Prime Minister
 Viktor Orban  said today after the airline’s board ordered it to
fold. “We’ve tried to push it along and keep it flying as long
as we could, but this is the end. We can’t keep this going on
without the risk of losing the aircraft that are abroad.”  While a profitable flag carrier should be part of Hungary’s
“national economy,” a replacement will be set up only with the
backing of private money, Orban said on MR1 radio, and given the
economic crisis, “investors aren’t bustling on the market.”  Chris Tarry , an independent analyst in  London , said Hungary
needs to decide whether it can count on carriers such as  Ryanair
Holdings Plc (RYA)  to provide transport links vital to the economy.  “There’s a lot of competition in Budapest, but if you rely
on a non-local carrier they can always take their aircraft
away,” said Tarry, who has covered airlines for almost 30 years.  Ryanair said today it will bring forward plans to serve
Budapest from March to Feb. 17 and make the city a base for four
 Boeing Co. (BA)  737 jets and 2,000 workers, not just a destination,
serving 31 routes, versus a prior target of five, to target 2
million people a year. Malev had 3.2 million customers in 2011.  ‘Catastrophe’  Passengers and staff at Liszt Ferenc airport, which changed
its name from Ferihegy last year to honor composer Franz Liszt,
said the collapse of Malev would damage  Hungary ’s reputation and
might affect people’s willingness to visit or do business there.  “This is a catastrophe,” said Hajnalka Gundert, a 37-year-
old nurse who had aimed to fly to London, where she’s moving for
a better-paid job in a nursing home, one of 7,200 people with a
Malev ticket for today. The carrier’s demise is “one more sign
that we need to leave to have a better future,” she said.  Spanair became the first scheduled mainline European
carrier to collapse since the last recession after Qatar Airways
Ltd., the No. 2 Middle Eastern carrier, halted bid talks and the
Catalonia government indicated it would no longer supply funds.  The airline, founded in 1986, was  Spain ’s fourth-biggest by
passenger numbers, carrying almost 13 million in 2011. Cirrus
Airlines, an operator of regional aircraft based in Saabruecken,
 Germany , ceased flights on Jan. 23, according to its website.  Commission Blow  Budapest-based Malev, a member of the Oneworld airline
alliance that includes British Airways, reported a loss of 24.6
billion forint in 2010, the latest year for which results are
available, little changed from its deficit in 2009.  The company’s plight worsened on Jan. 9 when the European
Commission ruled that it should return the equivalent of $390
million in “unlawful aid” paid by the government from 2007 to
2010, saying it would have struggled to raise cash from a
private investor. Malev borrowed 5 billion forint in December
and received 8.5 billion forint in budget funds in August.  The collapse comes as Hungary seeks to revive bailout talks
with the  International Monetary Fund  and European Union to quell
investor concern about its ability to service the highest debt
level among the trading bloc’s eastern members. Orban, the
premier, sought aid in November as the forint fell to a record
low and the country’s credit grade was cut to junk at  Standard &
Poor’s , Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings.  Forint Impact  Malev was among Hungary’s top 30 earners of export revenue,
getting the majority of sales abroad, a white paper from Dec. 5
said. It served 45 cities and contributed 40 percent of revenue
at Liszt Ferenc, in which  Hochtief AG (HOT)  has a 50 percent stake.  The grounding may force the state to pay about 1.5 billion
euros ($2 billion) as a one-off obligation to the airport’s
operators, according to the paper, which cited a privatization
contract. The payment could “add to the overhang coming from
EU/IMF talks and may result in short-term weakening of the
forint and a decline in share prices,” said  Akos Kuti , an
analyst at Equilor Befektetesi Zrt. in Budapest.  Malev’s bankruptcy trustee will announce job cuts shortly,
the MTI news service said, without citing anyone. The collapse
may cut the number of visitors flying to Budapest by 50 percent,
threatening tourism jobs, Akos Niklai, vice president of the
Hungarian Hotel and Restaurant Association, said by telephone.  Malev was already effectively operating in  bankruptcy
protection , having been declared a “strategically important
company” on Jan. 30, shielding it from creditors.  Wizz Boost  Earnings have been squeezed by rivals including Budapest-
based budget operator Wizz Air Ltd., which is offering stranded
passengers one-way “discounted” flights for 9,900 forint, or
$45, and will invest 25 billion forint to expand capacity.
 EasyJet Plc (EZJ) , Europe’s second-biggest discount carrier, which
serves Hungary from London, Paris and Berlin, offered a 60-euro
($79) rescue fee, and  Air Berlin Plc (AB1) , the No. 3, announced a 49-
euro rescue and will commence daily Berlin-Budapest flights.  Today’s grounding ends a two-decade search for a viable
partner since Malev was transformed into a joint stock company
in 1992 following the collapse of communism.  The last recession led to the failure of a takeover by
Russian entrepreneur Boris Abramovich, and Hungary was compelled
to renationalize Malev, taking a 95 percent stake in 2010. As
recently as this week, Chairman Janos Berenyi said it was “not
impossible” that talks with Hainan Airlines Co. parent HNA
Group could be revived. The Chinese company said yesterday it
was “willing to restart negotiations on a possible bid.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net  