-- AMR’s Horton Willing to Weigh Airline Acquisitions After Bankruptcy Exit
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2012-02-06T17:35:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/amr-s-horton-expects-american-to-exit-bankruptcy-without-merger.html
AMR Corp. ’s  American Airlines , whose
bankruptcy made it a possible takeover target, may try to buy a
rival after leaving Chapter 11 as the U.S. industry shrinks,
Chief Executive Officer  Tom Horton  said.  “It’s not hard to envision how we could be a force in the
industry and, potentially, a consolidator,” Horton said in a
Feb. 3 interview at Bloomberg’s New York headquarters. “I don’t
think we need to combine with anybody, but I think there will be
ample opportunities to.”  Openness to a future acquisition contrasts with Fort Worth,
Texas-based AMR’s decision to sit out a round of deal-making by
U.S. airlines from 2005 through 2010. Horton said AMR would like
to exit Chapter 11 this year and expects to do so independently,
which would mean dodging potential bids from  Delta Air Lines
Inc . and  US Airways Group Inc .  American, the third-biggest U.S. airline, must move quickly
to secure $2 billion in cost cuts that include axing pensions
and 13,000 jobs to help fend off potential suitors, Horton said.
Its turnaround strategy also counts on adding $1 billion in
revenue as overseas routes expand and new jets join the fleet.  “If we don’t get our act together and we don’t show some
progress on this plan, that’s an opening for others,” said
Horton, 50, who was AMR president until predecessor  Gerard Arpey 
stepped down upon the company’s Nov. 29 bankruptcy filing.  Labor Costs  American’s restructuring success is by no means certain,
said Jeff Straebler, an independent airline analyst in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut .  “American will know their labor costs relatively
shortly,” Straebler said. “They won’t have the same control
over revenues. Capacity restraint has benefited the industry and
I don’t see how adding even more flights” at hub airports, as
the airline projects, will restore profits.  Deals done shortly after bankruptcy aren’t unknown in the
U.S. industry. Delta began exploring mergers less than six
months after its 2007 bankruptcy exit, a process that led to its
purchase of Northwest Airlines Corp. in 2008. Northwest agreed
to buy Midwest Air Group Inc. in 2007, within three months of
leaving court protection.  At the same time, AMR’s public discussion of possible
future purchases comes “early in the process” of reorganizing
in Chapter 11, said Betsy Snyder, a  Standard & Poor’s  analyst in
New York.  ‘Premature’ Discussion?  “It seems premature to be talking about an acquisition for
them at this point,” Snyder said today in an interview. “If
you know there’s another 1 1/2 to 2 years to even exit
bankruptcy, who knows what the industry is going to look like at
that point?”  While American holds exclusive rights to file a
reorganization plan with the  bankruptcy court , rivals can talk
with its unsecured creditors committee. That panel, which
includes the airline’s three biggest unions and the U.S. Pension
Benefit Guaranty Corp., is involved in all American’s major
decisions outside routine business.  Horton refused to identify any potential acquisition
targets and played down the risk of a takeover by  US Airways ,
noting two failures in merger talks with  UAL  Corp.’s  United
Airlines  and in a hostile approach to Delta when that carrier
was in bankruptcy.  No Worry  “My view is, this will be every bit as successful as their
prior three attempts,” he said. Tempe, Arizona-based US Airways
has acknowledged hiring bankers to study AMR; Delta is doing
likewise, a person with knowledge of that effort has said.  Any future mergers among U.S. airlines are likely to see
smaller carriers, including  Alaska Air Group Inc . and  JetBlue
Airways Corp . and perhaps US Airways, gobbled up by bigger
rivals, Horton said.  “They are not likely to be independent in the long run,”
he said. “Over time, there will be more consolidation in  North
America .”  AMR was on the sidelines for the last four large U.S.
mergers: US Airways left bankruptcy in a 2005 tie-up with
 America West Holdings Corp. ; Delta bought Northwest in 2008; and
in 2010, United combined with Continental Airlines Inc. and
 Southwest Airlines Co . agreed to acquire AirTran Holdings Inc.  In the U.S., the new  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)  and
Delta rank ahead of American by traffic.  ‘Sending a Message’  “AMR is definitely sending a message that they intend to
remain independent,” said  Henry Harteveldt , an airline analyst
at Atmosphere Research Group LLC in  San Francisco . “AMR doesn’t
need a partner. They have a strong network, a strong frequent
flier program and strong relationships with corporations.”  Positioning AMR to be an acquirer means ending  annual
losses  that began in 2008 and have persisted even as competitors
have returned to profit in recent years.  Horton said future growth in flying at the post-bankruptcy
American will be “disproportionately” based on international
routes, which fetch higher fares because of a lack of discount
competition. American will build on its Oneworld alliance and
joint business ventures with  Japan Airlines Co. ,  British Airways 
and  Spain ’s Iberia, Horton said.  American had 41 percent of its available seats in 2011 on
flights outside the U.S. Horton wouldn’t say how that mix would
change, or how he will allocate a planned 20 percent capacity
increase over five years among hubs at Dallas-Fort Worth,  New
York , Miami,  Los Angeles  and  Chicago .  Talks or Force  Horton said he hoped to win unions’ assent to proposed
contract changes instead of having to go to court to impose the
terms. A peaceful outcome would break with recent history: Five
years of talks with unions failed to produce cost-saving accords
before bankruptcy, and labor chiefs have denounced the job-cut
plan as “bad for America” and “positively awful.”  Union leaders, who represent 81 percent of American’s
73,802 employees, will come to see the turnaround program as the
best hope for the airline’s survival, Horton said.  His recent soundings on the views of that workforce, he
said, included his Feb. 3 flight to New York from Dallas- Fort
Worth : He spent half the time in the cockpit with the pilots and
the other half chatting with flight attendants in a galley.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  