-- Anglo American Proves Vulnerable to Takeover by Glencore-Xstrata: Real M&A
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 2012-02-03T15:05:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/anglo-american-proves-vulnerable-to-takeover-by-glencore-xstrata-real-m-a.html
Already one of the cheapest major
mining companies,  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  is becoming an even more
likely takeover target with Xstrata Plc and Glencore
International Plc’s potential merger threatening to leave it
dwarfed by three of its closest rivals.  London-based Anglo may attract interest from Xstrata and
 Glencore (GLEN)  should they combine to create an $82 billion company,
people familiar with the matter said. Anglo, which is less than
half the size of either  BHP (BHP)  Billiton Ltd. or Rio Tinto Group,
sold for 6.4 times earnings yesterday, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That’s cheaper than any of its biggest
competitors, apart from Rio de Janeiro-based  Vale SA. (VALE3)   Glencore and Xstrata together could have the financial
wherewithal to take over Anglo, worth $59 billion yesterday,
after Xstrata failed in 2009 to convince Anglo to combine in a
“merger of equals.” By acquiring Anglo’s assets in diamonds,
platinum and steelmaking coal, the Glencore-Xstrata entity would
vault past  Rio (RIO)  and rival BHP, the world’s largest mining company
by revenue, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Anglo may also be
attractive to BHP, according to WallachBeth Capital LLC and
Lutetia Capital.  “Anglo hasn’t closed the ranks sufficiently to prevent” a
takeover,  Timothy Parker , manager of the $4.5 billion T. Rowe
Price New Era Fund in Baltimore, said in a telephone interview.
The fund owns shares of Anglo, Xstrata, BHP and Rio. “You can
see the obvious allure” for Glencore and Xstrata, he said.  “Buying Anglo would let them enter the ranks of the true
majors. Anglo is the right size for a combined company. It’s
big, but it’s doable,” Parker said.  Diamonds, Coal  James Wyatt-Tilby, a spokesman for Anglo, declined to
comment on whether it has been approached about an acquisition.  Simon Buerk , a spokesman at Baar, Switzerland-based
Glencore, Alison Flynn, a spokeswoman for Xstrata in Zug,
 Switzerland , and Kelly Quirke, a spokeswoman for Melbourne-based
BHP, all declined to comment on whether the companies are
interested in acquiring Anglo.  Anglo, which mines for everything from diamonds to platinum
and coal and has operations on almost every continent, was
founded in Johannesburg by Ernest Oppenheimer in 1917. It grew
to become  South Africa ’s biggest company during apartheid as
sanctions limited its ability to expand abroad. The company,
which moved its headquarters to  London  in 1999, controls Anglo
American Platinum Ltd., the biggest producer of the metal used
in catalytic converters that make exhaust fumes less toxic.  Anglo also bid $5.1 billion in November to boost its stake
in  De Beers , the world’s largest diamond miner, to 85 percent.  Back Together  Anglo climbed 3.6 percent to a six-month high of 2,830.5
pence in London yesterday on speculation that a combined
Glencore and  Xstrata (XTA)  may eventually make a bid for the company.
The shares advanced 2.4 percent at 2:56 p.m. today in London.  Xstrata in October 2009 dropped its proposed 29.2 billion-
pound ($47.4 billion) offer to merge with Anglo, five days
before a deadline for it to make a formal bid or walk away.
Anglo, which had turned down the merger plan in June of that
year, rejected the strategic rationale and “underwhelming
valuation” of the proposal.  “Anglo American has always been within the sights of the
Glencore group,” Sachin Kumar, an analyst with Paris-based
AlphaValue, said in an e-mail. Glencore is “better placed to
merge Xstrata with itself. So this may be why markets are more
confident of a takeover of Anglo American this time,” he said.  Glencore, which holds  34 percent  of Xstrata, made an
approach regarding an all-share “merger of equals,” Xstrata
said in a statement yesterday.  Financial Power  Glencore (GLEN) , the world’s largest publicly traded commodities
supplier, said there’s no certainty of an offer. A combination
would bring together two groups that separated a decade ago when
Xstrata bought Glencore’s Australian and South African coal
mines for $2.5 billion and went public in London.  A merger between Glencore and Xstrata would also create an
$82 billion rival to  BHP (BLT) , valued at $203 billion yesterday, and
Rio, which had a market capitalization of $123 billion, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Together,  Glencore (GLEN)  and Xstrata would have the flexibility
and financial power to make large acquisitions, according to
people familiar with the discussions.  They may consider an offer for Anglo, though any such move
would be unlikely to happen before they complete their merger,
said the people, who declined to be identified because the
matter is private. That process may take as long as six to eight
months, one person said, adding that any offer for Anglo could
be preempted by rival bids from its competitors.  Not Imminent  “Anglo is undervalued and has good prospects,” said  David Winters , the Mountain Lakes, New Jersey-based manager who
oversees the $1.5 billion  Wintergreen Fund (WGRNX) , which has beaten 99
percent of its competitors in the past five years and owns
shares of Anglo. Still, “we have to see what happens with
Glencore and Xstrata. Nothing’s confirmed yet so I think we have
to wait on that,” he said.  Anglo yesterday traded at 6.4 times its earnings in the
past 12 months, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That was less
than  half  its average of 14 times in the past decade and about a
third lower than the average for base metal mining companies and
raw materials suppliers with more than $20 billion in value.  “It must be very attractive to take out companies as cheap
as Anglo,” Gerhard Lampen, head of Sanlam iTrade, a unit of
South Africa’s biggest insurer, said in a telephone interview
from Johannesburg. “They are targets for sure.”  Potential Buyers  BHP could also be interested in Anglo, according to Lutetia
Capital and WallachBeth Capital.  Anglo’s diamond holdings would be an attraction for BHP,
according to Jean-Francois Comte, co-founder of Lutetia, which
manages a $100 million event-driven fund in Paris.  BHP, which needs a large deal to “move the needle,” may
be interested in Anglo’s coal assets, according to Yemi Oshodi,
managing director of M&A and special situations trading at New
York-based WallachBeth. Anglo may also pursue an acquisition of
its own, he said.  “The likely Xstrata-Glencore deal means it’s more pressing
now for Anglo to look for a corporate tie-up of its own,” said
 Gavin Wendt , founder and senior resource analyst at Mine Life
Pty in Sydney. Anglo “will be feeling the pressure because it
risks being left behind,” he said.  BHP, Rio  T. Rowe’s Parker said that combining Anglo with Glencore
and Xstrata makes the most sense and would help the new entity
compete with two of the world’s largest mining companies by
revenue, BHP and Rio.  BHP had $72 billion in sales in the past 12 months, while
Rio had $60 billion, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Together,
sales at Anglo and Xstrata reached $64 billion.  Buying Anglo would also give  Glencore (GLEN) , which trades
commodities including coal, oil and metals, a greater supply of
materials to put through its network, Parker said.  “In the past, there has been a lot of speculation about
such an end game,” Jeff Largey, an analyst at Macquarie Group
Ltd. in London, said in a telephone interview. “The market
thinks that this could be a natural combination. You would see
Xstrata and Glencore pair up and ultimately merge with Anglo.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in  New York  at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Carli Lourens in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
John Viljoen at   jviljoen@bloomberg.net . 