-- YPF, Petrobras Lose Argentine Oil Incentives Amid Crackdown
-- B y   L a u r a   P r i c e
-- 2012-02-03T21:49:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/argentina-suspends-oil-incentive-program-for-ypf-pan-american.html
Repsol YPF SA (REP) , BP Plc and  Petroleo
Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  will lose financial incentives intended to boost
investment in Argentine crude exploration and production amid
rising government pressure on  oil companies . YPF slumped.  President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner’s government ended
the 3-year program that provided about 10 billion pesos ($2.3
billion) of incentives to oil companies after an increase in
local crude prices since the measures were introduced in 2008,
the Planning Ministry said in an e-mailed statement today.  Fernandez is increasing pressure on oil companies to invest
more in  Argentina  after blaming them for a doubling of fuel
imports to $9.4 billion in 2011 from a year earlier. The
president in October ordered oil and mining companies to
repatriate export revenue and in November voted against a
dividend payment for Buenos Aires-based YPF, as it seeks to stem
capital flight. The government also discussed nationalizing YPF,
Pagina/12 newspaper reported Jan. 29, without saying where it
got the information.  “If the government is trying to induce more companies to
reinvest dollars, it makes it a little more challenging,”
Murray McCartney, chief executive officer at Calgary-based oil
and gas explorer Crown Point Ventures, said today in a telephone
interview. “It’s counterproductive.”  YPF American depositary receipts fell 8.7 percent to $32.20
in  New York . The shares dropped 19 percent during the week. A
company official in Buenos Aires declined to comment.  Crude Prices  Argentina’s government caps oil exports at about $42 per
barrel and keeps any profit above that price. Production
declined 5.6 percent in 2011 from a decade earlier, according to
the Energy Ministry’s website.  Domestic crude prices doubled to $70 a barrel from when the
Petroleo Plus and Refino Plus incentive programs began, the
ministry said. The government said it achieved the initial
objectives of the program after some companies completed
projects and expects to save 2 billion pesos a year through the
suspension.  Crude oil for March delivery rose 1.5 percent to $97.84 in
New York today.  Petroleo Brasileiro’s Argentine unit,  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Pan American
Energy business and YPF, majority owned by Madrid-based Repsol,
are all affected by the measure, according to the statement. The
Petroleo Plus program provided incentives for new oil
production, while Refino Plus supported investment in refining
capacity increases.  The government on Jan. 16 opened a probe into fuel price-
fixing by companies including YPF, Petrobras Argentina and Royal
Dutch Shell Plc after a complaint from the transport
association.  Largest Discovery  Repsol made its largest discovery to date in November with
a 927 million-barrel find at the Loma la Lata field in
Patagonia, about six times bigger than the company had estimated
in May.  While announcing the discovery from the southern province
of Neuquen, YPF Chief Executive Officer Sebastian Eskenazi was
flanked by Planning Minister Julio de Vido, while Fernandez also
joined via teleconference. De Vido accused YPF and other oil
companies of price fixing.  The Eskenazi family paid $1.3 billion to boost its stake in
YPF to about 25 percent last May. Repsol controls 57 percent of
YPF.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Price in  Buenos Aires  at 
 lprice3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  