-- As Super Bowl Shows, Build Stadiums for Love and Not Money: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-02-03T15:40:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/as-super-bowl-shows-build-stadiums-for-love-and-not-money-view.html
As you watch the Super Bowl Feb. 5,
spare a thought for the taxpayers in the host city of
Indianapolis. The stadium in which the game will be played has
been financed largely at their expense and, like so many sports
venues built with public money, the cost just keeps growing.  Lucas Oil Stadium , where the Colts play eight regular
season games per year, has every amenity: a retractable roof,
state-of-the-art turf, seven locker rooms, 137 luxury suites,
1,000 flat-screen televisions. And well it should: It cost $720
million to build.  Of this, the Colts paid only $100 million. To cover the
rest, local officials raised taxes on hotels, restaurants and
rental cars, and issued bonds that soon led to ballooning
financing costs.  As Bloomberg News reported Feb. 2, the cost overruns
resulted partly from the city’s reliance on auction-rate
securities, which became extremely expensive as the market for
such bonds collapsed in 2008.  Interest rates  on some of the
stadium bonds reached 15 percent at one point, according to  data
compiled  by Bloomberg.  All told, this led to about $43 million in unexpected
financing costs. As projected deficits grew larger, the county
board that operates the stadium had to reduce arts and cultural
grants, and the city increased taxes on hotels even further.  Threat to Leave  In its outlines, this is a familiar story. With the Colts
threatening to leave town in 2006, an economic-impact study done
for Indianapolis suggested wondrous civic advantages would soon
flow from a new stadium: Along with the expansion of an adjacent
convention center,  the project would create  $2.25 billion in
economic benefits over 10 years, 4,200 new permanent jobs and
4,900 construction jobs. And, of course, the team would stay.
The stadium duly opened in 2008.  But like many studies of its kind, this one will probably
turn out to be fantasy. Public funding for sports stadiums has
been found, in dozens of studies over several decades, to fall
short of its promised benefits and to cost taxpayers more than
expected.  Robert A. Baade of the Heartland Institute, a research
group in Chicago that promotes free markets,  examined  48 cities
over a 30-year period and found “no factual basis” for the
argument that professional-sports stadiums and teams have a
significant impact on economic growth. A  study  by Judith Grant
Long, an associate professor of urban planning at  Harvard
University , found that public subsidies for stadiums are
typically 40 percent more expensive for taxpayers than initially
advertised.  And the debts linger: From the Kingdome in  Seattle  to the
Astrodome in Houston to the old  Giants Stadium  in  New Jersey ,
today’s taxpayers are on the hook for tens of millions of
dollars in debt for stadiums that are no longer in use or no
longer even exist. The RCA Dome -- which Lucas Oil Stadium
replaced, and which was imploded in 2008 --  won’t be paid off 
until 2021.  All of this might be justified if hosting a team brought an
abundance of jobs at a time of high unemployment. But the data
suggest that this, too, is unlikely. A  study  by Jordan Rappaport
and Chad Wilkerson of the  Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City 
found that the net number of jobs created by hosting a pro-
sports team “is almost certainly less than 1,000 and likely to
be much closer to zero.”  Another study  concluded that hosting a
sports team might actually destroy jobs.  Reducing Local Wages  Stadiums probably don’t help wages, either. Dennis Coates
of the University of  Maryland  and Brad R. Humphreys, now at the
University of Alberta,  looked at  about 30 years worth of data
and found that new stadiums, and sports more generally, may
actually reduce local incomes.  This is because spending on sports typically displaces
spending on other forms of entertainment, and it tends to have a
small multiplier effect, since so much of the money spent is
funneled to small numbers of athletes and owners who often live
elsewhere. New taxes imposed to pay for stadiums may also come
at the expense of projects with greater economic potential, and
the city may become less attractive to visitors as it boosts
fees on hotels and rental cars to support the stadium. Finally,
most of the permanent jobs that actually materialize at new
stadiums aren’t high quality: They are typically part-time,
seasonal and low-wage, and they often carry no benefits.  A sounder argument for public financing of sports arenas is
that they can help drive investment to a specific area. For
instance, they can lure money from the suburbs into a struggling
downtown. Camden Yards, the baseball stadium that helped
revitalize part of downtown Baltimore, is the oft-cited example.
But building a stadium is usually an inefficient way to
accomplish this. At Camden Yards,  according to  Roger Noll, an
economics professor at  Stanford University , the cost per job
created was $125,000. Other redevelopment programs in Baltimore
typically spent $6,000 per job.  Although the economic rationale for publicly financing
stadiums is poor, an important fact remains: People really,
really like sports. And they will often be willing to pay a high
price to keep their favorite teams or lure new ones. Sports are
part of what makes a city a city -- what would Boston be without
the  Red Sox , or  Chicago  without the Bears?  But this calculus is an ethereal one. What price could a
city government place on its citizens’ love for their sports
teams?  The answer is that public funding for new sports stadiums
should be up to voters to decide. Cities should make sure the
public has access to independent evaluations of the costs and
benefits of building a stadium -- not just the inflated
“economic-impact studies” done at the behest of team owners and
publicized in the media. It should also be made clear exactly
what other subsidies the sports teams will be getting: from
cheap loans to cheap rent to cheap land.  Finally, in structuring a deal, cities  should strive  to use
fees -- such as surcharges on tickets -- that place more of the
cost on those who actually use the facilities, and the city’s
share of the cost should, as much as possible, be dedicated to
associated public-works improvements that will have benefits
beyond game day. Most importantly, the teams should shoulder the
heaviest financial burden in any deal.  If, confronted by an honest cost-benefit analysis, citizens
vote to pay more in taxes or forgo other civic improvements,
then, by all means, give them their retractable domes, their
plasma TVs and their years of expensive enjoyment.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 