-- Transit Tax Switch to Roads Passed by U.S. House Panel
-- B y   L i s a   C a r u s o
-- 2012-02-03T21:46:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/mass-transit-losing-gasoline-tax-to-u-s-roads-unites-usual-foes.html
A U.S. House committee voted to stop
letting gasoline-tax revenue be used for mass-transit projects,
over opposition from groups including the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce and the International Brotherhood of Teamsters.  The Ways and Means Committee today voted 20-17 for a
 proposal  to stop devoting 2.86 cents of the 18.4-cent  gasoline 
tax paid by U.S. motorists to public transportation. The money
would instead go toward keeping a U.S. account for road and
bridge construction solvent.  The bill also would finance highway and bridge construction
with revenue from expanded oil and natural-gas drilling on
government land and offshore. The committee, before approving
the bill, rejected an attempt by Democrats to strike the
gasoline-tax provision.  “This is a dead end; this can’t pass” the Republican-
controlled House, said Representative  Sander Levin  of  Michigan ,
the panel’s ranking Democrat.  Fuel-tax revenue has been critical for building bus, metro
and light-rail systems, said the American Public Transportation
Association and Transportation for America, which advocates for
alternatives to driving. Removing that funding and replacing it
with a one-time $40 billion sum would make it impossible for the
U.S. Federal Transit Administration to honor grant agreements,
the two Washington-based groups said in a letter signed by more
than 500 organizations.  Record Ridership  “With record transit ridership, now is not the time to
eliminate guaranteed funding for our nation’s public
transportation systems,” groups including the Chamber, the
National Association of Realtors and the American Society of
Civil Engineers said in the letter to the committee.  The committee rejected an attempt to reinstate Build
America Bonds for five years. The bond program, created in
President Barack Obama’s 2009 stimulus plan, let municipalities
to go straight to investment banks to raise revenue for local
transportation projects with the U.S. government paying 35
percent of the interest for up to 30 years.  The committee proposes transferring $40 billion from the
 U.S. Treasury ’s general fund to a new “alternative
transportation account” to pay for transit improvements and
projects that help reduce air pollution and road congestion.  State Transportation Agencies  Reserving almost all gas-tax revenue for highway and bridge
projects would cost transit agencies about $25 billion over five
years, said Mantill Williams, a spokesman for the  American
Public Transportation Association .  The U.S. government accounted for 19 percent of transit
funding in 2010, according to the FTA’s National Transit
Database.  The  American Association  of State Highway and
Transportation Officials, which represents 50 state
transportation departments, said in a letter it “strongly”
opposes the committee plan.  The Ways and Means committee is responsible for setting the
revenue levels for the five-year highway and transit bill
considered by the House Transportation and Infrastructure
Committee yesterday.  Without additional income, the Highway Trust Fund may be
insolvent as soon as October, the  Congressional Budget Office 
predicted this week.  The $260 billion, five-year transportation bill must be
reconciled with a Senate committee’s $109 billion two-year bill
before any of the provisions can take effect.  The Ways and Means committee bill is H.R. 3864. The House
transportation committee bill is H.R. 7. The bill to renew Build
America Bonds is H.R. 992  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Caruso in Washington at 
 lcaruso7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  