-- Australian Ministers Back Gillard Amid Reports of Rudd Challenge
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2012-02-03T02:26:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/australian-ministers-rally-around-gillard-amid-reports-of-rudd-challenge.html
Senior Australian government
ministers are rallying around Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  amid
media reports she may face a challenge from predecessor  Kevin Rudd  as her popularity in opinion polls falls.  “I’m a strong supporter of the prime minister,” Defense
Minister Stephen Smith told  Sky News  today. When asked if she
could survive as leader, he replied: “absolutely.” Treasurer
and deputy leader Wayne Swan, manufacturing minister Kim Carr
and other senior members of the ruling Labor government have
also backed Gillard.  Media speculation emerged this week that Rudd, now foreign
minister, will move for the top job after a Jan. 28-29 Newspoll
survey showed Labor’s primary vote fell one percentage point to
30 percent, behind the Liberal-National coalition’s 45 percent.
Gillard, Australia’s first female prime minister, formed a
government after the nation’s closest election in seven decades
in September 2010, three months after replacing Rudd as leader
in a late-night party coup.  There’s been a “seismic shift” in support away from
Gillard, a senior Labor official who wasn’t identified said,
according to Fairfax Media today. Factional bosses within Labor
have reported senior party members have begun counting numbers
to gauge her level of support, The Australian newspaper reported
Jan. 31.  “I’m not in the camp that says you sit here with your eyes
on the opinion polls and that’s all that matters,” Gillard told
journalists in the nation’s capital, Canberra, today. “I don’t
worry about chatter in the media, I get on with the job.”  Falling Polls  Rudd, who left  Australia  yesterday for a security
conference in  Germany , said he was happy with his role as
foreign minister, according to The Australian.  Gillard’s lead as preferred prime minister in the latest
Newspoll fell 3 percentage points to 40 percent, compared with
opposition leader  Tony Abbott ’s 37 percent. The survey had a
margin of error of plus or minus 3 percentage points.  The poll capped a challenging start to 2012 for Gillard,
who after parliament opens Feb. 7 plans to implement a price on
 carbon emissions  and pass mining tax legislation through the
Senate. This year she has faced hurdles including an independent
lawmaker’s decision to withdraw support for the government and
opposition demands for an inquiry into Labor’s role in clashes
between police and aboriginal protesters.  One-Seat Majority  Gillard’s parliamentary majority was reduced to one seat
last week when  Andrew Wilkie  withdrew his support. Wilkie, who
helped Labor form a minority government in 2010, said Gillard’s
decision to implement a trial period on technology that
restricts gambling on  slot machines  fell short of a pledge to
make the limits mandatory.  “It’s up to the Labor Party to put its house in order,”
opposition leader Abbott told reporters in Sydney today. He
earlier told the Nine Network “all the signs are there” for a
challenge from Rudd.  An Australian bookmaker agrees. Sportsbet, which says it’s
the nation’s largest online betting agency by revenue, is
offering to return A$1.20 ($1.28) on every A$1 bet should Rudd
vie for Gillard’s job by the end of the year.  “Where there’s smoke there’s fire,” Sportsbet.com.au
spokesman Shaun Anderson said in an e-mailed statement. “The
writing seems on the wall that Rudd will try and get back at
Gillard and challenge for the leadership of the  Labor Party  --
it is a matter of when, not if.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  