-- AutoTrader.com Said to Be in Talks About Possible IPO of Buyer-Seller Site
-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i   a n d   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 2012-02-04T18:18:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/autotrader-com-said-to-be-in-talks-about-possible-ipo-of-buyer-seller-site.html
AutoTrader.com Inc. (ATDC) , which runs a
website linking buyers and sellers of new and used cars, is
talking to banks about a potential initial public offering, a
person with knowledge of the discussions said.  The company’s owners, including Cox Enterprises Inc. and
 Providence Equity Partners , may be trying to capitalize on
rising demand for cars and trucks as well as momentum from
Facebook Inc.’s filing for a $5 billion IPO this week. Talks
regarding an AutoTrader IPO are in early stages and the owners
could decide against a deal, said the person, who declined to be
named because the process is private.  Private-equity firms are seeking to shed assets and return
money to their backers through so-called exits, the process of
selling or taking a buyout-backed company public. At the same
time, U.S. new-vehicle sales are returning to pre-recession
levels. Sales may rise for a third straight year in 2012 for the
first time since 2000, according to data compiled by Bloomberg,
and used-car  prices  are at a near-record. Facebook’s IPO is also
helping boost Internet companies’ valuations.  Exits fell to their lowest level in seven quarters, London-
based researcher Preqin Ltd. said in December. The slowdown
comes as firms are marketing new investment pools to clients who
often wait for payouts.  New Fund  An AutoTrader stock sale could bolster Providence Equity’s
efforts to secure commitments for a new buyout fund, which has
attracted more than $3 billion. The firm, founded in 1989 by
Jonathan Nelson, oversees $23 billion in equity investments. It
took three months to complete its biggest fund, the $12 billion
Providence Equity Partners VI, in February 2007, before the
credit crisis froze buyouts.  Andrew Cole, a spokesman for Providence, Rhode Island-based
Providence Equity, and Lou Laste, a spokesman for Atlanta-based
AutoTrader, declined to comment on the company’s plans. A
message left after normal business hours with Cox Enterprises,
based in Atlanta, wasn’t returned.  Formed in 1997 under the name AutoConnect.com, AutoTrader
was created as a subsidiary of Manheim Auctions Inc., the
world’s largest operator of wholesale auctions. Manheim is a
unit of Cox Enterprises, a closely held media company.  AutoTrader, which attracts more than 14 million buyers each
month, according to its website, first attempted an IPO in 2000
and withdrew the offering, citing market conditions. In May
2010, Cox Enterprises announced Providence Equity acquired a 25
percent equity interest in AutoTrader, led by Chief Executive
Officer Chip Perry.  The company was on Yahoo! Inc.’s wish list as part of a
tax-efficient asset swap with Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. and
Softbank Corp., people with knowledge of the matter said last
month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  