-- Lawyers Rank Third on Obama Donor List Even With Lobbying Ties
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2012-02-03T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/lawyers-rank-third-on-obama-campaign-donor-list-even-with-lobbying-ties.html
President  Barack Obama ’s top sources
of campaign funds include employees at law firms that made $20
million last year trying to influence Washington.  Obama, who has raised $128 million toward his re-election,
doesn’t accept contributions from registered lobbyists, a policy
that doesn’t apply to others who work in their firms.  The restriction hasn’t affected his fundraising, as 6 of
the president’s 20 biggest sources of money were law firms that
lobby for companies such as  Google Inc. (GOOG) ,  AT&T Inc. (T) , and
 MasterCard Inc. (MA) , and he received more money from lawyers and
others at law firms than any other presidential candidate last
year, according to the Center for Responsive Politics, a
Washington-based group that tracks political giving.  “Basically, they’re not taking money from the messenger
boys but they are taking money from the people sending the
message,” said  Bill Allison , editorial director at the Sunlight
Foundation, a Washington-based advocacy group.  Retirees were Obama’s biggest bloc of 2011 givers, donating
more than $10 million, while employees from an assortment of
businesses ranging from retailing to hospitality were his second
largest, contributing more than $6.7 million.  The president raised $5.7 million from those working for
law and lobby firms, more than half of the $10.3 million in
donations those employees made to the presidential candidates,
according to the Center for Responsive Politics.  Citing Ethics Rules  Ben LaBolt , an Obama campaign spokesman, cited the
president’s record on ethics issues, such as preventing
lobbyists who enter his administration from handling issues they
used to be involved with, and being unable to lobby the
government for two years after they return to the private
sector.  “While Republican candidates are actively raising money
from federal lobbyists and special interest PACs, without
disclosing their bundlers, the president drew a bright line by
rejecting contributions from Washington lobbyists whose job it
is to influence federal policy makers,” LaBolt said. Bundlers
are people who tap their personal networks to encourage
donations to the campaign.  Obama’s second largest source of campaign donations came
from employees working for  DLA Piper (1191L)  and their families, who
have given a total of $151,375.  DLA Piper  last year was paid
$8.2 million by such clients as  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)  and  Raytheon Co. (RTN)   Lobbying Law Firms  Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP , whose employees
contributed $100,324 and ranks as Obama’s eighth-biggest source
of donations, counts  EBay Inc. (EBAY)  and the U.S. Steel Corp. among
its clients, which paid the firm a total of $1.1 million last
year.  Mayer Brown LL (1120L) P, whose employees contributed $67,407, was
paid $4 million to lobby by such clients as  JPMorgan Chase & Co .
and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce.  Banning lobbyist donations “is consistent with the
campaign they ran on in 2008 and their stand on outside
influence and they are undoubtedly losing some donations that
would have come their way,” said  Sheila Krumholz , executive
director of the center.  Obama is the only 2012 presidential candidate to refuse
donations from registered lobbyists and ban them from raising
money for his re-election. Registered lobbyists have raised $2.2
million for Republican challenger  Mitt Romney ’s campaign through
Dec. 31, Federal Election Commission records show.  While candidates must disclose lobbyists who are raising
money, Obama is going further and identifying everyone who has
raised at least $50,000 for his re-election.  Walling Off Lobbyists  “He’s doing more than anyone else,” said  Craig Holman  of
 Public Citizen , a Washington-based group that supports more
stringent lobbying laws. “Not only is he disclosing his
bundling activities, he has this wall between lobbyists and his
administration and no one else is going to do that.”  Even so, “it would be nice to see a cleaner break between
lobbyists and money and lawmakers,” Holman said. “One lobbying
firm can easily expect to get others in the firm to make
campaign contributions on its behalf.”  Romney, the former Massachusetts governor, raised $57
million. A co-founder of the private equity firm Bain Capital
LLC, he has  received  $6 million of the $9.9 million that
employees in the securities and investment industry and their
families have donated to presidential candidates.  That sum includes $2 million of the $2.8 million from
employees at private equity and hedge funds, according to the
Center for Responsive Politics. Eight of Romney’s 10 biggest
sources of donations are workers at financial firms and their
families.  Romney has called for repealing the financial regulations
enacted in 2010 in response to the biggest economic meltdown
since the Great Depression.  “To the extent anyone is supporting Mitt Romney over
President Obama it is because the state of the economy and the
president’s failure to create jobs,” said Andrea Saul, a Romney
campaign spokeswoman.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in  Washington  at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 