-- Bank of America Would Spare Only Two Headquarters in Plan to Sell Offices
-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 2012-02-03T22:02:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/bank-of-america-weighing-sale-of-all-properties-except-two-main-offices.html
Bank of America Corp. , the second-
largest U.S. lender by assets, may sell all its offices as part
of the company’s effort to cut costs, sparing only its
headquarters in North Carolina and  New York City .  “We are currently reviewing all of our properties across
our portfolio, with the exception of Bank of America Corporate
Center in Charlotte and Bank of America Tower at One Bryant
Park” in  Manhattan , Kelli Raulerson, a spokeswoman, said today.
The lender owned or leased about 120 million square feet in
26,910 locations at the end of 2010, mostly in the U.S.,
according to its last annual report.  Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan , 52, is
reevaluating the bank’s real estate needs as he eliminates at
least 30,000 positions and seeks to trim as much as $8 billion
in annual expenses. If Bank of America sells buildings, it will
lease back space for operations, avoiding impact on employees,
the company said in a statement provided by Raulerson.  The bank already plans leasebacks at three sites: the Fifth
Third Center and the Hearst Tower in  Charlotte  and at 222
Broadway in Manhattan, Reuters reported. It’s also reviewing
whether to sell its building at  100 Federal St.  in  Boston , the
Boston Globe reported today.  Project New BAC  Other “materially important properties” owned by the bank
and listed in the annual report included campuses with multiple
buildings in Hopewell,  New Jersey , and Concord,  California .  Moynihan unveiled initial details in September for his
cost-cutting plan, dubbed Project New BAC, which divides the
company into two parts, each with about $27 billion in annual
expenses. He targeted $5 billion in annual reductions from
retail and back-office operations, mostly accomplished through
eliminating jobs, and he may trim as much as $3 billion from
investment and commercial banking, trading, and wealth-
management units in the latest phase.  The property divestitures are unrelated to efforts to boost
the firm’s capital levels to comply with new international
rules, said a person with knowledge of the plans. The bank sold
$33 billion in assets last year, helping boost Tier 1 common
equity, a measure of its ability to absorb unexpected losses, to
9.86 percent in the fourth quarter from 8.65 percent in the
previous three-month period.  Bank of America  rose  5.2 percent to $7.84 in  New York  as
the broader Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 1.5 percent
after better-than-forecast growth in U.S. jobs. The stock is up
41 percent this year after falling 58 percent in 2011.  Bank of Nova Scotia had its biggest gain in about six weeks
on Jan. 19 after the Toronto-based lender said it may sell its
Scotia Plaza office tower, which would allow it to raise capital
without selling shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 