-- JPMorgan, BofA Sued by New York Over Use of Mortgage Database
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-02-04T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/bank-of-america-jpmorgan-chase-wells-fargo-sued-by-new-york-over-mers.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co .,  Bank of America
Corp.  and  Wells Fargo & Co . were sued by New York Attorney
General  Eric Schneiderman  over the use of a mortgage database
that the state said led to improper foreclosures.  The banks’ use of the database, known as MERS, misled
homeowners, undermined foreclosure proceedings and created
uncertainty about ownership interests in properties, the state
said in the complaint filed yesterday in New York State Supreme
Court in  Brooklyn .  “The banks created the MERS system as an end-run around
the property recording system, to facilitate the rapid
securitization and sale of mortgages,” Schneiderman said in a
statement. “Once the mortgages went sour, these same banks
brought foreclosure proceedings en masse based on deceptive and
fraudulent court submissions.”  The lawsuit came three days before a Feb. 6 deadline for
states to join a proposed multistate agreement over foreclosure
practices said to be worth as much as $25 billion. Last week,
Schneiderman was selected by the Obama administration to help
lead a state-federal group probing misconduct in the packaging
and sale of residential mortgage-backed securities.  Servicing Rights  MERS tracks servicing rights and ownership interests in
 mortgage loans  on its electronic registry, allowing banks to buy
and sell loans without recording transfers with individual
counties. The system was created by the mortgage industry to
evade recording fees, avoid the need to publicly record mortgage
transfers and facilitate the packaging of mortgage loans into
securities, Schneiderman said in the complaint.  Merscorp Inc. , which operates the mortgage registry, was
sued by Delaware Attorney General  Beau Biden  last year. Biden
claimed the registry is deceptive and harms consumers by
permitting foreclosures “for which the authority has not been
fully determined and may not be legitimate.”  Janis Smith, a spokeswoman for Reston, Virginia-based
Merscorp, which was also named as a defendant in the  New York 
complaint, said in an e-mailed statement that the company
rejects the attorney general’s allegations and will fight the
suit.  Reviewing Complaint  Rick Simon , a spokesman for  Charlotte , North Carolina-based
Bank of America, and  Tom Kelly , a spokesman for New York-based
JPMorgan, declined to comment on the suit. Tom Goyda, a
spokesman for San Francisco-based Wells Fargo, said the bank was
reviewing the complaint.  The state’s complaint, which couldn’t be immediately
verified in court records yesterday, states that MERS eliminated
the ability of the public and homeowners to track the purchase
and sale of properties through the traditional public records
system. That information is stored in the MERS private database,
which Schneiderman called unreliable and inaccurate. The
mortgage industry has saved more than
$2 billion in recording fees with the system, according to the
complaint.  Use of Registry  Banks’ use of the registry, coupled with “faulty and
sloppy” document preparation, has resulted in foreclosures
being filed against New York homeowners where the foreclosing
party lacked the authority to sue, Schneiderman said.  By relying on legally invalid mortgage assignments using
MERS, foreclosure judgments have been obtained “through
fraudulent and illegal means,” according to the complaint.  MERS’ conduct and the banks’ use of the system “have
resulted in the filing of improper New York foreclosure
proceedings, undermined the integrity of the judicial process,
created confusion and uncertainty concerning property ownership
interests and potentially created clouds of title on properties
throughout the state of New York,” the state said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  