-- BofA Wins Dismissal in Allstate Countrywide Securities Suit
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-02-03T22:56:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/bank-of-america-wins-dismissal-from-allstate-countrywide-suit.html
Bank of America Corp . won dismissal
from  Allstate Corp (ALL) .’s lawsuit over the insurer’s alleged losses
from $700 million in mortgage-backed securities purchased from
 Countrywide Financial Corp .  Bank of America, as a corporate parent, isn’t responsible
for the liabilities of Countrywide, the mortgage lender it
acquired in 2008, U.S. District Judge Mariana Pfaelzer in  Los
Angeles  ruled yesterday. The judge found that the evidence
Allstate provided wasn’t sufficient to support its allegations
that Bank of America set out to defraud Countrywide’s creditors.  Pfaelzer in October had granted Bank of America’s request
to be dismissed from the case and gave Allstate permission to
amend its claims to address the deficiencies she identified.
Allstate argued in its revised complaint that Bank of America
structured the Countrywide acquisition so as to strip the unit
of all its valuable assets and leave a “raided” shell for
creditors to sue.  “This is significant for settlement negotiations,”  James
Kwak , a law professor at the University of  Connecticut , said in
a phone interview before the ruling was filed. “It gives Bank
of America a card to play in negotiations.”  Countrywide Brand  Bank of America  merged Countrywide with a subsidiary and
subsequently transferred most of the mortgage lender’s assets
from that unit, Countrywide Financial, to other Bank of America
operations and retired the Countrywide brand. Allstate claimed
that the asset transfers should be treated as a so-called de
facto merger under Delaware law.  Pfaelzer previously said that under Delaware law an asset
transfer can’t be treated as a de facto merger, which would make
Bank of America liable as the successor of Countrywide, unless
there was fraud involved. Allstate argued that the consideration
Bank of America paid the Countrywide subsidiary for the assets
was insufficient and was evidence of fraud.  “We respectfully disagree with the court’s opinion,”
Maryellen Thielen, a spokeswoman for Northbrook, Illinois-based
Allstate, said in an e-mailed statement.  “Even if it is upheld on appeal,” she said, the
“decision only affected whether Bank of America, in addition to
Countrywide, will have to pay should Allstate’s claim reach
judgment in its favor.”  Lawrence Grayson, a spokesman for  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based Bank of America, said in an e-mail that the bank
is pleased with the ruling.  The case is Allstate Insurance Co. v. Countrywide Financial
Corp., 11-05236, U.S. District Court, Central District of
 California  (Los Angeles).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  