-- BB&T To Buy Crump Units for $570 Million to Expand Life Insurance Sales
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r   a n d   P a t r i c k   C l a r k
-- 2012-02-03T16:08:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/bb-t-to-buy-crump-units-for-570-million-to-build-life-insurance-business.html
BB&T Corp. (BBT) , the ninth-largest U.S.
bank by deposits, agreed to buy insurance units of Crump Group
Inc. for $570 million to expand distribution of life coverage.  The deal would make BB&T the nation’s largest independent
wholesale  life insurance  distributor and add $300 million in
annual revenue, the Winston-Salem, North Carolina-based lender
said today in a statement. The agreement covers property-
casualty and life operations and includes rights to the Crump
name, according to closely held Crump. The sale is scheduled for
completion this quarter, BB&T said.  Chief Executive Officer Kelly King has been bolstering
BB&T’s insurance brokerage to add revenue that doesn’t involve
lending. The bank struck deals last year for Liberty Benefit
Insurance Services and Atlantic Risk Management Corp. to expand
in  California  and the Baltimore area.  The Crump units are “a great strategic fit for BB&T,
immediately increasing and diversifying our fee income while
driving stronger revenues,” King, 63, said in the statement.
BB&T jumped 3.3 percent to $28.94 at 11:04 a.m. in  New York .  Crump is an insurance distributor and record-keeper for
company retirement plans based in Roseland,  New Jersey ,
according to a separate statement. The firm will keep its
Ascensus retirement-services business. The New York-based
private equity firm J.C. Flowers & Co. is a large stakeholder,
said Sherri K. Lindenberg, a Crump spokeswoman.  Looking for Targets  Banks including  Wells Fargo & Co . rely on insurance
brokerage arms to solidify relations with clients and generate
fee revenue, and to help offset income lost to new financial
rules such as U.S. caps on debit-card transaction fees. BB&T’s
insurance income increased 2 percent to $254 million in the
fourth quarter.  “We know BB&T is on the prowl,” said  Paul Miller , an FBR
Capital Markets analyst with a “market perform”  rating  on the
shares. “They generate a lot of capital internally, and they’re
going to be restricted in how much in buybacks and dividends
they can return to the public.” Federal regulators are
reviewing capital plans submitted by the biggest lenders with an
eye on strengthening the banking system and may curtail some
requests for share repurchases or higher dividends.  King said he would look for small acquisitions in property-
casualty, benefits and life insurance during a conference call
last month.  “We think our insurance acquisition activity will be what
I’d call kind of normal for BB&T, which is a number of
acquisitions during the course of the year,” he said.  BB&T agreed in November to buy BankAtlantic Bancorp’s
retail-lending unit, adding about $2.1 billion in loans and $3.3
billion in deposits. The acquisition will help BB&T expand in
 Florida  by adding 78 branches and boosting its share of the
Miami market.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Clark in New York at 
 pclark48@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  