-- German Stocks Advance for Fourth Day as Daimler, Bayer, Munich Re Increase
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2012-02-03T17:00:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/benchmark-dax-little-changed-before-u-s-jobs-report-deutsche-bank-falls.html
German stocks  rose for a fourth day,
extending a six-month high, after a report showed the  U.S.
economy  created more jobs in January that even the most bullish
economist had predicted.  Exporters to the U.S., including  Daimler AG (DAI)  and  Bayer AG (BAYN) ,
led the advance.  Munich Re , the world’s biggest reinsurer, and
 Sky Deutschland AG (SKYD)  also rose.  Rhoen-Klinikum AG (RHK)  fell before the
operator of health-care facilities reports earnings next week.  The  DAX (DAX)  Index rose 1.7 percent to 6,766.67 at the close in
 Frankfurt  as it posted a weekly advance of 3.9 percent. The DAX
has  jumped 15 percent  this year, gaining the most in January
since the benchmark measure started in 1988, amid speculation
the global economy will withstand the impact of the euro area’s
debt crisis and as central banks acted to fuel growth. The
broader  HDAX Index (HDAX)  also added 1.7 percent today.  “The number shows quantitative easing is working in the
U.S. and feeding through to the real economy,” said Carlos Sanchez, sales trader at Interdin Holdings SA in  Madrid . “Once
employment recovers, we’ll see a very quick improvement in
corporate earnings and in the economy. There will be a very
quick transfer because the U.S. economy is largely dependent on
the consumer.”  In the U.S., a Labor Department report showed that
employers hired more people last month than economists had
estimated and the jobless rate unexpectedly fell to the lowest
in three years. The 243,000 increase in payrolls was the most
since April and exceeded every forecast in a Bloomberg News
survey. The  unemployment rate  dropped to 8.3 percent, the lowest
since February 2009.  Bank Stocks  The  Stoxx 600 Banks Index  has surged 18 percent this year
even as  Greece  continues talks with bondholders for a debt-swap
agreement. A rescue plan for the country may include a loss of
more than 70 percent for bondholders in a voluntary exchange,
people close to the negotiations have said.  “Equity valuations are still extremely cheap,” Philipp Baertschi, strategist at Bank Sarasin & Cie. in Zurich, said in
a Bloomberg Television interview. “The multiples are not
justified. There is too much gloom.”  Daimler (DAI) , the carmaker that makes 24 percent of sales in the
U.S., climbed 3.1 percent to 45.46 euros after the jobs report.
 Bayer (BAYN) , maker of the Xarelto blood thinner, advanced 1.4 percent
to 55.09 euros. The company generated 23 percent of its revenue
from  North America  in 2010, according to Bloomberg data.  Munich Re (MUV2)  gained 2.8 percent to 106.45 euros. Commerzbank
AG raised its recommendation on the stock to “buy” from
“add,” and its price forecast for the shares to 118 euros from
100 euros.  Sky Deutschland Gains  Sky Deutschland (SKYD) , the German pay-television provider
controlled by  News Corp ., rallied 9.3 percent to 2.47 euros. The
stock soared 19 percent yesterday after the company reported
higher subscriber numbers and predicted positive earnings for
2013.  “With another quarter of strong metrics, and massively
reduced losses behind the company, even the skeptics must be
wondering if bearishness is still justified,” analysts at
Berenberg Bank wrote in a report today. “With an increasingly
bright operational future, we remain buyers.”  Rhoen-Klinikum declined 2.8 percent to 15.28 euros.
Analysts at Berenberg Bank wrote in a report today that the
company may post annual net income of 152 million euros ($199
million) when adjusting for one-time tax gains on Feb. 9. That
would be “right at the lower end of the guidance range,” the
brokerage wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  