-- Bernanke Says He Won’t Tolerate Higher Inflation to Boost Employment Gains
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2012-02-03T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/bernanke-says-he-won-t-tolerate-higher-inflation-to-boost-employment-gains.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  defended the central bank’s newly established price
goal and rejected suggestions he was prepared to allow higher
inflation to create jobs.  “We are not seeking higher inflation,” Bernanke said
yesterday in response to questioning from Republican
Representative  Paul Ryan  of  Wisconsin , chairman of the House
Budget Committee. “We do not want higher inflation and we’re
not tolerating higher inflation.”  Bernanke replied to Ryan’s suggestion that the Fed might be
prepared to allow inflation to exceed its goal to fulfill the
second part of its congressional mandate, which is to promote
maximum employment. The Fed last week set a 2 percent annual
inflation goal after saying that it would keep its  benchmark
interest rate  low for longer to boost the economy and push down
unemployment.  Ryan, who has supported legislation to have the Fed focus
solely on stable prices, said in opening remarks he was
“greatly concerned to hear the Fed recently announce that it
would be willing to accept higher-than-desired inflation in
order to focus on the other side of its dual mandate.”  The hearing came one day before a report from the Labor
Department that’s forecast to show that the  jobless rate  stayed
at 8.5 percent in January, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey of economists. Employers probably added
140,000 jobs to payrolls, down from an increase of 200,000 in
December, according to the survey.  Signs of Improvement  In other remarks yesterday, Bernanke said the economy has
shown signs of improvement while remaining vulnerable to shocks,
and he called on lawmakers to reduce the long-term  U.S. budget
deficit .  “To achieve economic and financial stability, U.S. fiscal
policy must be placed on a sustainable path that ensures that
debt relative to national income is at least stable or,
preferably, declining over time,” Bernanke said.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  advanced 0.1 percent to
1,325.54 at the close of trading in  New York  yesterday. The
yield on the 10-year Treasury note was little changed at 1.82
percent.  In adopting an inflation target, the Fed joined central
banks from  Sweden  to  New Zealand  that have such goals. The
exchange between Ryan and Bernanke turned on the wording of a
statement last week explaining how the  Federal Open Market
Committee  might reconcile its inflation target with maximum
employment.  Balancing Objectives  “I don’t think you should read into this any unwillingness
to keep  price stability  as a critical goal of the central
bank,” Bernanke, 58, said. “In looking at the two sides of the
mandate, the rate of speed, the aggressiveness, may depend to
some extent on the balance between the two objectives.”  “We are always trying to return both objectives back to
their mandate,” he said.  Fed policy makers see inflation declining in 2012 to below
their 2 percent target, with most expecting prices to rise 1.4
percent to 1.8 percent this year, according to forecasts
released last week. That gives them more leeway to take action
aimed at lowering unemployment.  “If the situation continues with inflation below target
and unemployment declining at a rate which is very, very slow,
then the logic of our framework says we should be looking for
ways to do more,” Bernanke said at a Jan. 25 press conference.  Price Gauge  The price gauge preferred by the Fed, the personal
consumption expenditures index, increased 2.4 percent in
December from a year earlier, down from 2.6 percent the previous
month. The pace of so-called  core inflation , which excludes food
and energy, increased to 1.8 percent in December from 1.7
percent the month before.  Chicago Fed President  Charles Evans  said yesterday that the
central bank should consider additional purchases of Treasuries
and mortgage bonds to boost the economy.  People outside the Fed have “mentioned that maybe you
needed to do well over $1 trillion in  asset  purchases in order
to begin to move things,” the regional chief told reporters
during a meeting at the Chicago Fed. “I don’t have a particular
number in mind, but it would be more ambitious than most numbers
being bandied about.”  Evans, who doesn’t vote on monetary policy this year,
dissented from the November and December decisions of the FOMC,
favoring additional monetary stimulus at those meetings.  The central bank has kept interest rates close to zero
since December 2008 and expanded its balance sheet by buying
$2.3 trillion in bonds.  ‘Greater Latitude’  “To the extent that inflation is running below 2 percent,
the  Federal Reserve  may have somewhat greater latitude to pursue
accommodation,” Dallas Fed President  Richard Fisher  said in a
speech in Austin,  Texas  yesterday. “However, the past few years
have demonstrated, yet again, that allowing inflation to rise by
no means guarantees faster job growth.”  Reports indicating strength in the labor market,
manufacturing and construction spending helped drove the  S&P 500 
up 4.4 percent last month for the best January since a 6.1
percent increase in 1997, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Applications (INJCJC)  for unemployment insurance payments dropped by
12,000 to 367,000 in the week ended Jan. 28, Labor Department
figures showed yesterday. Manufacturing in the U.S. grew in
January at the fastest pace in seven months, according to a
report this week from the  Institute for Supply Management .  Even so, “the pace of the recovery has been frustratingly
slow, particularly from the perspective of the millions of
workers who remain unemployed or underemployed,” Bernanke said.
“Moreover, the sluggish expansion has left the economy
vulnerable to shocks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  