-- Bets on Raw Materials Expanding Fastest Since 2006: Commodities
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r   a n d   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2012-02-03T20:09:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/bets-on-raw-materials-rising-most-since-06-as-factories-grow-commodities.html
Investments in commodities are
expanding at the quickest pace in six years on signs of rising
economic growth, even as JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. warn that some prices have rallied too fast.  The number of  futures  contracts on 24 commodities from oil
to copper rose 9.3 percent last month, the most since January
2006, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Speculators are
the most bullish since November, Commodity Futures Trading
Commission data show. Gold and silver had the best start to a
year since 1983, orange juice posted its biggest rally in more
than three decades, the LMEX gauge of six industrial metals rose
the most since 2006, and cattle futures advanced to a record.  Raw materials are rebounding from the first annual drop in
three years on growing signs the world will skirt another
recession and reports that manufacturing is expanding from  China 
to India to the U.S. Investors are betting record-low U.S.
interest rates and China’s efforts to shore up growth will
bolster demand. The optimism is being tempered by Europe’s
widening debt crisis, with the International Monetary Fund
warning it could derail the global economy.  “The economic news has been good, and people were
underinvested, and that’s a recipe for markets to rise,” said
Jess Gaspar, a managing director of Commonfund Asset Management
in Wilton,  Connecticut , which oversees $25 billion of assets.
“If the economy continues strong and central banks continue
with monetary easing, then that would be very bullish for risky
assets and for commodities in particular.”  Commodity Rebound  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Total Return  Index (SPGSCITR)  of 24  raw
materials  rose 2.2 percent in January, rebounding from last
year’s 1.2 percent decline. Silver, zinc and nickel led the
gains, while natural gas plunged 16 percent and crude oil
slipped 0.4 percent. The MSCI All-Country World  Index (MXWD)  of
equities rose 5.8 percent including dividends, the best start in
18 years. Global bonds climbed 0.6 percent and the U.S. Dollar
 Index (MXWD)  retreated 1.1 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Federal Reserve policy makers pledged last month to keep
borrowing costs near a record low at least until late 2014, and
there is mounting speculation that China will ease curbs on
lending to shore up growth. The Citigroup Economic Surprise
Index for the U.S. reached a 10-month high on Jan. 6, signaling
data is beating analyst forecasts. U.S. employment climbed more
than forecast in January and the jobless rate unexpectedly fell
to the lowest in three years, the Labor Department said today.  The S&P GSCI gauge rose for three consecutive days after
the  International Monetary Fund  said Jan. 24 it now expects
global growth of 3.3 percent this year, compared with a
September estimate of 4 percent. The index also advanced the day
after the  World Bank  reduced its forecast by the most in three
years on Jan. 18, to 2.5 percent from 3.6 percent.  Demand ‘Spark’  The divergence between those forecasts and price gains is
spurring some analysts to warn the rally may end. This year’s
surge in metals prices isn’t sustainable because the economy
lacks the demand “spark,” Michael J. Jansen, an analyst at
JPMorgan in London, said in a report Jan. 30. The bank cut its
2012 price estimates for aluminum, nickel, silver and gold.  Goldman’s commodity research team, led by  Jeffrey Currie  in
 London , withdrew a recommendation to buy copper on Jan. 31 after
a 16 percent advance in about six weeks. While any decline may
be “limited,” the rally was “too much, too soon,” they wrote
in a note. The bank forecast Jan. 13 that the S&P GSCI Enhanced
Commodity  Index (SPGCESTR)  would gain 15 percent in 12 months, led by
energy and metals. The gauge rose 1 percent since then.  ‘Rising on Air’  Aluminum, zinc and lead are “rising on air” and the gains
in copper and tin are “too far, too fast,” Macquarie Group
Ltd. said in a report Jan. 30. The bank sees industrial output
expanding 2.3 percent this year, from 4.9 percent in 2011.  “You can’t really explain rationally why there isn’t more
caution in the markets,” said  Joel Naroff , president of Naroff
Economic Advisors, a consultant in Holland,  Pennsylvania .
“Markets are probably a little more bullish than they should be
given the risks out there.”  The 17-nation euro region will probably contract 0.5
percent this year as its debt crisis widens, according to the
median of 18 economist estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Europe 
accounts for about 16 percent of global oil demand and 18
percent of copper consumption, data from the  International
Energy Agency  and Barclays Capital show.  China Slowing  China, the biggest user of everything from energy to copper
to cotton, reported fourth-quarter growth of 8.9 percent on Jan.
17, the slowest pace in 10 quarters. That increased speculation
the People’s Bank of China would allow banks to set aside less
of their deposits as reserves to stimulate lending. The bank did
so for the first time since 2008 on Dec. 5.  Gasoline demand in the U.S., the world’s largest energy
consumer, is the lowest in a decade because of increased fuel
efficiency and slower economic growth. Stockpiles of motor fuel
reached 230.1 million barrels in the week ended Jan. 27, the
highest since February, the U.S. Department of Energy said Feb.
1. Prices at the pump have tumbled 13 percent since May 1 to
$3.455 a gallon, according to AAA, a motoring group.  Crude futures in  New York , after rallying 25 percent in the
fourth quarter and reaching a seven-month high of $103.74 a
barrel on Jan. 4, were little changed in January. Oil rose 1.5
percent to $97.84 today, still about 18 percent above the
average over the past five years.  Copper, Palladium Shortages  While global growth may be slowing, the consumption of
commodities is expanding faster than supply. Morgan Stanley
predicts shortages in copper,  palladium  and  iron ore  this year
and Barclays anticipates the same thing for tin. The London-
based bank also expects oil inventories to drop in the third and
fourth quarters as production falls short of demand. Rabobank
International forecasts deficits in coffee and cocoa.  Depleting metal and energy deposits have spurred company
takeovers as industrial growth stokes demand. Glencore
International Plc, the world’s largest publicly traded
commodities supplier, is in talks with Xstrata Plc to merge in a
deal that would create an $82 billion rival to BHP Billiton
Ltd., the top miner. Global mining deals surged to $98 billion
last year, the highest since 2007, and energy takeovers totaled
$337 billion, just under the record $340 billion in 2010.  The supply shortfalls may deepen should growth accelerate.
China’s official purchasing managers’ index increased to 50.5
last month, the highest since September, data from the
statistics bureau on Feb. 1 showed.  India ’s manufacturing grew
at the fastest pace in eight months in January, HSBC Holdings
Plc and Markit Economics reported the same day. The  Institute
for Supply Management ’s U.S. factory  index  rose to the highest
level since June last month, the group said two days ago.  ‘Healthy Growth’  “The European situation hasn’t been resolved, and that
will impact the global economy, but we are still seeing
growth,” said Colin O’Shea, the head of commodities at Hermes
Investment Management Ltd. in London, which has about $2 billion
of raw-material assets. “It’s these areas that will lead the
relatively healthy growth for 2012, which should also translate
into higher demand and prices in commodity markets.”  The U.S., the biggest consumer of crude and corn and the
second-biggest buyer of metals, will grow 2.3 percent this year,
accelerating from 1.7 percent in 2011, according to the median
of 72 economist estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Fed Policy  Fed policy makers said Jan. 25 they will keep their target
interest rate for overnight loans between banks near zero at
least until late 2014 and didn’t rule out buying more bonds. The
Fed set rates at a record low in December 2008 and has since
bought $2.3 trillion of debt in two rounds that ended in June
2011. During that period, the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index
of commodities jumped more than 80 percent.  “There are strong fundamentals for commodities,
particularly if the economy continues to improve,” said
Christopher Burton, who is a New York-based portfolio manager at
Credit Suisse Asset Management, helping oversee $10.6 billion.
“The U.S. in particular seems to be getting stronger. There is
still significant focus on what’s going on in Europe, especially
the debt situation, but on the margins, things are looking more
positive.”  Hedge funds  and other large speculators are  holding  a net-
long position, or bets on higher prices, of 742,902 contracts
across 18 U.S. futures and options, up from 454,512 in December,
CFTC data show. Open interest, or contracts outstanding, across
24 commodities traded in the U.S. and Europe jumped to 10.43
million contracts on Jan. 31, from 9.54 million on Dec. 30,
exchange data show.  “The world didn’t end last quarter, and it increasingly
looks like it’s not going to end,” said Marshall Berol, the
chief investment officer at Malcolm H. Gissen & Associates in
 San Francisco , which manages about $300 million of assets.
“People are realizing that there’s still growth going on around
the world.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Richter in New York at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney McFerron in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  