-- BlackRock, Fidelity Bullish on Corporate Bonds
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-02-03T03:50:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/blackrock-fidelity-schwab-signal-demand-for-corporate-bonds.html
BlackRock Inc.,  Fidelity Investments 
and Charles Schwab Corp., which together manage more than $5
trillion, are all bullish on corporate debt.  The  Federal Reserve ’s pledge to keep  interest rates  at a
record low through late 2014 means investors should take
advantage of the extra yield, or spread, offered by asset-backed
securities, commercial mortgage-backed debt and high-yield bonds
in the U.S., according to BlackRock. It’s favoring securities
due in five years and less, said Rick Rieder, chief investment
officer for fundamental fixed-income portfolios for the company,
which has $3.51 trillion in assets.  “One of the ways to take advantage of fixed income is to
buy spread assets,” Rieder said yesterday in an interview from
 London . Yields on short- and medium-term Treasuries are “going
to be very low for a long time.”  Corporate bonds are outperforming U.S. government
securities this year as the world’s biggest economy shows signs
of growth. Treasuries have returned 0.3 percent, versus 2.4
percent for company debt, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch indexes. Government figures yesterday showing a decline in
weekly U.S. jobless claims added to speculation the Labor
Department’s monthly jobs report today will say employers added
workers in January.  Treasuries returned 9.8 percent in 2011, versus 6.8 percent
for U.S. company bonds, as surging bond yields in  Europe  drove
demand for the relative safety of government debt.  ‘Increasingly Attractive’  “There may be continued opportunities in safe-haven assets
such as sovereign debt” because of Europe, Jamie Stuttard,
Fidelity’s London-based fixed-income portfolio manager, wrote in
a  report  on the company’s website Feb. 1. “Later in the year, I
expect to see increasingly attractive opportunities in corporate
bonds throughout the world, including some parts of Europe.”  Non-financial corporate bonds are attractive compared to
German bunds, British gilts and Treasuries, according to
Fidelity, the Boston-based  fund manager  that oversees $1.52
trillion.  Schwab, which is based in  San Francisco  and has $199
billion under management, said company bonds will help investors
“earn your coupon,” in a report yesterday on the company’s
 website .  “We continue to see investment-grade corporate bonds as a
place to look for yield,” according to the report by Rob Williams, the director of income planning, and Kathy A. Jones, a
fixed-income strategist. “Reduced corporate leverage, improved
profit margins and declining financial market volatility are
positives.”  Volatile Financial Debt  They recommended “near-term caution” on corporate debt
because of the European fiscal crisis. Bank and finance bonds
will be the most volatile, according to the report.  Investors are looking for ways to increase yield as
Treasury rates set record lows.  U.S. 10-year  yields  were little changed today at 1.83
percent as of 12:46 p.m. in  Tokyo , according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader prices. The 2 percent security maturing in November 2021
changed hands at 101 17/32. The rate slid to 1.67 percent on
Sept. 23, the lowest ever.  U.S. five-year notes  yielded  0.71 percent, versus the
record low of 0.6981 percent Jan. 31.  The Bank of America U.S. Corporate and High Yield Master
index yielded 4.38 percent.  Increasing strength in the  U.S. economy  is damping demand
for the safety offered by Treasuries.  Applications for unemployment insurance payments dropped by
12,000 to 367,000 in the week ended Jan. 28, the Labor
Department said yesterday. U.S. employers probably added 140,000
jobs in January, following 200,000 in December, according to the
median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of economists before
the figure today.  Fed policy makers said Jan. 25 that they will keep their
benchmark interest rate at virtually zero until at least late
2014, and Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said he’s considering buying
bonds to sustain the expansion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  