-- BOE May Increase Its Asset-Purchase Target to $510 Billion, Economists Say
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-02-04T00:01:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/boe-may-increase-asset-purchase-target-to-513-2-billion-economists-say.html
The  Bank of England  will raise its
target for  asset purchases  next week as the debt crisis in
 Europe  may have already pushed Britain’s economy into a second
recession.  The nine-member Monetary Policy Committee led by Governor
 Mervyn King  will increase its bond-purchase program by 50
billion pounds ($79 billion) to 325 billion pounds, according to
35 of 51 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. Fifteen
economists forecast a 75 billion-pound increase, and one no
change.  The economy may shrink 0.2 percent in the first three
months of 2012 after contracting in the fourth quarter, the
National Institute for Economic and Social Research said
yesterday. Malcolm Barr at JPMorgan Chase & Co. was among
economists who cut their forecasts for an asset-purchase
increase next week after an index of U.K. services growth rose
to a 10-month high in January.  “Though big headwinds remain, the U.K. looks set for a
proper expansionary phase,” said Philip Rush, an economist at
Nomura in  London  who forecasts a 50 billion-pound increase.
“With some of the pressure from big downside risks being
removed, that alleviates some of the pressure for them to do 75
billion pounds.”  Policy makers will also hold their  benchmark interest rate 
at 0.5 percent, according to all 57 economists in a separate
poll. The bank will announce its decision at noon on Feb. 9 in
London and will vote in light of new economic forecasts to be
published the following week.  ‘Downside’ Risks  Niesr cut its forecasts for U.K. growth yesterday and  Simon Kirby , a senior research fellow at the London-based group,
warned of “downside” risks without “decisive action” in the
euro area. Niesr forecasts the economy will shrink 0.1 percent
this year and grow 2.3 percent in 2013, compared with previous
projections in October for growth of 0.8 percent and 2.6 percent
respectively.  A Greek rescue plan may be wrapped up in coming days, say
creditors and European officials. Still, German Finance Minister
 Wolfgang Schaeuble  said that “we can’t pay into a bottomless
pit.”  An index of U.K. services purchasing managers rose to a 10-
month high of 56 in January from 54 the previous month as new
orders increased and business confidence improved, Markit
Economics and the  Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply 
said yesterday. The groups’ gauge of manufacturing also showed
faster growth.  After the services report Deutsche Bank’s  George Buckley 
and Morgan Stanley’s Jonathan Ashworth said the bank would raise
its bond plan by 50 billion pounds next week instead of the 75
billion pounds previously forecast.  ‘Slightly More Optimistic’  Central bank policy maker  Adam Posen  said Feb. 2 that while
there was still a case for the bank to add stimulus, he was
“slightly more optimistic” than a few months ago. He said
“there’s a case” for raising bond purchases by 75 billion
pounds.  “It is a close call, but we expect the MPC will do another
75 billion pounds,”  Michael Saunders , an economist at Citigroup
Inc. in London, said in a research note. “The MPC, in preparing
updated economic forecasts for the February meeting, will judge
that the economy’s growth prospects are worse than they thought
in November.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  