-- Brazil Central Bank Buys Dollars in Bid to Slow Real’s 9% Rally This Year
-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a
-- 2012-02-03T21:20:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/brazil-rate-futures-yields-fall-for-third-day-on-food-price-data.html
Brazil ’s central bank bought dollars
in the currency forwards market for the first time since July in
an effort to slow the real’s 9 percent rally this year that
policy makers say could curb exports and undermine the rebound
in  Latin America ’s biggest economy.  The central bank bought an unspecified amount of dollars in
the currency forwards market at 1.7383 reais, according to a
statement. The real rose 0.1 percent to 1.7179 per dollar today,
extending its gain this week to 1.1 percent.  Policy makers are intervening in the foreign-exchange
market amid speculation that $14 billion in Brazilian corporate
bond offerings overseas this year will extend the real’s rally
and hurt the manufacturing industry, said Flavia Cattan- Naslausky, a strategist at RBS Securities Inc. in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut . State-controlled Petroleo Brasileiro SA sold $7
billion of bonds overseas on Feb. 1 in the country’s largest
corporate bond offering on record.  “They want to ensure that the improvement in industrial
production continues,” Cattan-Naslausky said. “The worst may
be over for the industrial sector, but the growth is still below
trend.”  Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said Jan. 23 that the
government will keep implementing policies aimed at preventing
currency gains in a bid to ensure economic growth of at least 4
percent this year.  Raised Taxes  The Brazilian government raised taxes on overseas loans and
foreign-exchange derivatives last year after tripling the so-
called IOF tax on foreign investors’ fixed-income purchases to 6
percent in 2010 in a bid to stem the real’s gains.  The central bank’s foreign reserves have almost doubled in
the past four years to $355 billion as policy makers intervened
to weaken the real.  Brazil’s government faces limits on how much it can do to
prevent its currency from strengthening, Trade Minister Fernando Pimentel said in an interview this week in Port-au-Prince as he
accompanied President  Dilma Rousseff  on a state visit.  The strength of the Brazilian economy is attracting foreign
money, Pimentel said.  Industrial production  rose at the fastest pace in seven
months in December. Output increased 0.9 percent from the
previous month, equal to an annualized 11.4 percent, the biggest
jump since May 2011. Industrial output rose 0.3 percent last
year, below the 10.5 percent pace in 2010, when the economy
expanded at the fastest pace in two decades.  The real erased losses today after a government report
showed that the U.S. jobless rate unexpectedly declined last
month. The rate fell to 8.3 percent from 8.5 percent in
December, a sign that growth is picking up in the world’s
biggest economy, helping bolster demand for Latin American
exports.  The real posted a fifth consecutive week of gains, the
longest winning streak since October 2010.  Yields on Brazil’s interest-rate futures contract due in
January 2013 rose five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point,
to 9.5 percent today. The yield dropped 11 basis points this
week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabrielle Coppola in  Sao Paulo  at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  