-- Brazilian Crop Seen Failing to Compensate for Decline in India
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-02-03T09:55:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/brazilian-crop-seen-failing-to-compensate-for-decline-in-india.html
Brazil ’s center-south, the main sugar
growing region of the world’s biggest producer, may reap its
second-largest crop in history this season, and still fail to
compensate for an anticipated decline in the Indian harvest.  Center-south output will rise 5.8 percent to 33 million
metric tons in the season starting in April, according to a
Bloomberg survey of 12 analysts. India, the second-biggest
producer, will probably make 24 million tons in its season
starting in October, a 15 percent decline, a survey of 14
analysts showed. Global supply will match demand, compared with
a 4.5 million-ton surplus in the current season, the London-
based International Sugar Organization estimates.  The projected disappearance of a supply surplus is coming
at a time of record global consumption. Sugar futures plunged 27
percent last year, the biggest decline in a decade, as the glut
emerged after three consecutive annual shortages. Prices more
than doubled in 2009 when demand exceeded production by 12.6
million tons, enough to supply  Egypt  for four years.  “There is increased speculation that the current surplus
will weigh on prices, reducing the incentive to boost
production,” said Keith Flury, an analyst at Rabobank
International in London. “That coupled with concerns about
Indian farmers reducing cane acreage has increased expectations
that the globe may shift back into deficit next season.”  Dubai Conference  Kingsman SA, a Lausanne, Switzerland-based broker and
research company, will release its first forecast for 2012-13 on
Feb. 7 at its four-day annual conference in Dubai that begins
Feb. 4. A record 545 people are scheduled to attend, said
 Jonathan Kingsman , managing director and founder of Kingsman.
Dubai is home to Al Khaleej Sugar Co., the world’s largest sugar
refinery, capable of producing 6,000 tons a day.  Raw-sugar futures rose 1.6 percent to 23.66 cents a pound
on ICE Futures U.S. in New York this year. The Standard & Poor’s
 GSCI (SPGCAGTR)  Agriculture Total Return gauge of eight commodities dropped
0.3 percent as the MSCI All-Country World Index of equities
climbed 7.2 percent. Treasuries lost 0.2 percent, a Bank of
America Corp. index shows.  Open interest in raw sugar, or contracts outstanding,
jumped 46 percent since the end of September, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Hedge funds  and other money managers held
a net-long position, or bets on higher prices, of  93,520  U.S.
futures and options as of Jan. 24, up from 43,792 at the end of
2011, Commodity Futures Trading Commission data show.  Sugar Shortages  Combined shortages in the three seasons before 2011-12
totaled about 20 million tons, Rabobank estimates. Consumption
rose every year since 1994, U.S. Department of Agriculture data
show. Demand will be a record 167.7 million tons in 2011-12, up
2.3 percent from a year earlier, according to the London-based
ISO, which counts 86 countries among its members.  India’s production of 24 million tons would be the first
drop in four years, according to USDA data.  India ’s output may
fall if millers aren’t able to pay farmers for cane this season,
according to London-based ED&F Man Holdings Ltd., which trades
sugar across 40 countries. Cane prices set by  Uttar Pradesh , the
biggest cane-growing state, rose as much as 19 percent in the
past year while the cost of refined sugar in Mumbai was little
changed and global prices slumped.  Brazil’s crop may escape damage from La Nina, a phenomenon
that causes heavier rainfall in  Asia  and drier weather in  South
America . La Nina may weaken in the next few months,  Australia ’s
Bureau of Meteorology said on Feb. 1.  Cane Flowering  Brazil’s center-south output will rebound to 33.4 million
tons, “assuming no untimely frost and no cane flowering,”
 Hussein Allidina , head of commodities research at Morgan Stanley
in  New York , said in a Jan. 17 report. Flowering reduces the
sugar content in cane. The global surplus will be 4.5 million
tons in 2012-13, he said.  The cane harvest in the center-south of Brazil fell almost
12 percent last year, the first drop in a decade because of
damage from frost, flowering and drought, according to industry
association Unica. Sugar production of 33 million tons in 2012-
13 would be the biggest since the record 33.5 million tons in
2010-11, according to Unica.  “Center-south Brazil has invested in increased production
in 2012-13 and expectations are for an overall improvement in
output,” C. Czarnikow Sugar Futures Ltd., a London-based
researcher and broker, said in a report yesterday. “Any
recovery in crop yields following last year’s poor result is
likely to be limited due to the age profile of the cane.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in  London  at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 