-- Brooklyn Worker Dispute Seen as Test of Obama’s Labor Board Appointments
-- B y   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n
-- 2012-02-03T20:46:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/brooklyn-labor-dispute-seen-testing-obama-s-nlrb-appointments.html
A dispute over working conditions at
a Brooklyn apartment complex may be a test case for whether
President Barack Obama’s appointments to the National Labor
Relations Board are legal.  Lawyers for the Flatbush Gardens apartments, including  Paul Clement , a solicitor general and acting attorney general for
President  George W. Bush  now with the  Washington  law firm
Bancroft PLLC, have asked a court to throw out the board’s
complaint in the case.  “The Board lacked a quorum and has no authority to file
the petition because three of its putative members have not been
validly appointed,” Clement alleges in the filing.  Obama appointed three members to the board on Jan. 4
without seeking Senate confirmation, asserting that the chamber
was in recess. A president is permitted to make appointments
without confirmation during a recess, though Republicans dispute
that was the case on Jan. 4.  In response to the appointments, some lawmakers said they
would intensify their investigation of the NLRB, which retained
a Democratic majority, and Republican presidential candidate
 Newt Gingrich  called for stripping funding from the board
because of Obama’s move.  NLRB Complaint  “The administration strongly believes that the president’s
exercise of his recess appointment authority -- authority
expressly granted to him by the Constitution and exercised by
all recent presidents -- is valid and will be upheld by the
courts,” White House spokesman  Eric Schultz  said today in an e-
mail.  The Flatbush case was the subject of a hearing yesterday in
U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of  New York  during
which Judge Roslynn Mauskopf recused herself, citing personal
reasons,  Nancy Cleeland , an NLRB spokeswoman, said yesterday.  The Service Employees International Union 32BJ is seeking
an injunction to end a lockout of 70 of its members. The union
 complained  that the workers were blocked from their jobs in
November 2010 after they refused to accept a 30 percent cut in
pay and benefits. The union is seeking an order reinstating its
members at their prior wages and alleges the company improperly
concealed $37 million in payments to shareholders during
negotiations.  ‘Legitimate Board’  The NLRB, which mediates labor disputes, filed the
complaint in federal court on Jan. 25.  The labor board started this year with two members, too few
to make decisions or issue rulings. Obama then appointed Sharon Block,  Richard Griffin  and  Terence Flynn . All had been nominated
earlier, though the Senate hadn’t acted.  “The chairman has said, from his perspective, this is a
legitimate board and they are doing their job,” Cleeland said.  In a separate lawsuit in Washington, trade groups,
including the  National Association of Manufacturers  and the
National Right to Work Legal Defense and Education Foundation
Inc., today asked a federal judge to rule on the legality of the
appointments, saying they were “invalid” and “threaten to
harm” millions of employers and workers. The filing was related
to a suit brought by the groups seeking to block a rule
mandating companies notify workers of their rights to form a
union.  Flatbush Gardens said in its filings that the Senate never
adjourned. The president doesn’t have the authority to decide
when the Senate is in session, it says.  ‘Fundamental Principles’  “Our Constitution’s most fundamental principles of
separation of powers prohibit one branch from overriding the
determinations of another about its own proceedings,” the
Flatbush lawyers wrote in their filing.  A Jan. 6 memo by the  Justice Department  concluded that a
president can make recess appointments when lawmakers hold pro
forma sessions without conducting business, such as on Jan. 4.  “They were certainly in a formal way in session, though
the administration will take the view that this was more or less
fiction,” said Jesse Choper, a law professor at the  University
of California  at Berkeley, who isn’t involved in the case.  Challenges may continue until courts provide definitive
guidance, Choper said in a telephone interview. If this case
doesn’t serve as the test case, others will, he said.  The NLRB claims that no matter what the courts say about
the recess appointments, the complaint against the  Brooklyn 
complex should not be thrown out. The NLRB’s general counsel
also had agreed to bring a complaint, which is enough authority
even without the board, Cleeland, the NLRB spokeswoman, said.  “The employer is trying to raise this issue in the
litigation,” said Matthew Nerzig, a spokesman for the union,
said in an e-mail. “There are good reasons why the court does
not need to consider the issue, but in the end it may do so.”  The legal filing was previously reported by Crain’s New
York Business.  The cases are Paulsen v. Renaissance Equity Holdings LLC,
12cv350, U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of New
York (Brooklyn), and National Association of Manufacturers v.
 National Labor Relations Board , 11-cv-01629, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
William McQuillen in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  