-- BT Profit Advances in Third Quarter as Broadband Subscriptions Increase
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2012-02-03T10:09:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/bt-profit-advances-in-third-quarter-as-broadband-subscriptions-increase.html
BT Group Plc (BT/A) , the U.K.’s largest
Internet service provider, raised its full-year forecast for
operating profit as it gained more broadband subscribers.  Full-year earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation,
amortization and costs from job cuts will exceed 6 billion
pounds ($9.5 billion) in the 12 months through March 31, a year
earlier than the London-based company initially forecast, it
said in a statement. Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg had
estimated Ebitda of 5.97 billion pounds.  “We have delivered another quarter of growth in profits
and  cash flow  despite the economic headwinds,” Chief Executive
Officer Ian Livingston said in the statement.  BT has stepped up competition with operators including
 Virgin Media Inc. (VMED)  as it accelerates its 2.5 billion-pound
rollout of fiber broadband by one year. Virgin Media said last
month it will double most of its customers’ speeds. BT, the
U.K.’s largest fixed-line phone company, is counting on its
high-speed broadband services to offset declining sales from
traditional landline offerings.  BT shares  climbed  2.9 percent to 211.9 pence at 10:02 a.m.
in  London .  Pension Deficit  BT, which has started a triennial assessment of its pension
program, may pay down a “significant” portion of the deficit
early, Livingston said today.  “From the pension trustees’ point of view, getting money
into the scheme is good,” Livingston said. “There’s also an
advantage from a tax point of view.”  The  company  said today its pension deficit increased to 4.1
billion pounds in the quarter through December, compared with a
deficit of 2.5 billion pounds at the end of September. Under the
prior agreement the company agreed to make annual payments of
525 million pounds through December 2011.  BT added 146,000 broadband subscribers in the quarter,
compared with  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY) ’s addition of
166,000. BSkyB announced this week it will offer a fiber product
for the first time on BT’s network even after saying it had seen
little demand for the service.  Third-quarter operating profit climbed to 1.52 billion
pounds, beating the average estimate of analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  BT also faces potential competition from  Fujitsu Ltd. (6702) ,
 Japan ’s biggest computer-services provider, which said last year
it wants to tap BT’s infrastructure to build a rival fiber
network to 5 million homes and businesses for as much as
2 billion pounds.  The company’s Internet-connected TV platform YouView won’t
start before the middle of this year, Livingston said. The
venture with the British Broadcasting Corp. had been scheduled
to start early in 2012 after repeated delays.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Browning  in London 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  