-- Bunion Repair at $66K Spurs Aetna to Sue Clinics
-- B y   P e t e r   W a l d m a n
-- 2012-02-03T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/bunion-repair-at-66-100-spurs-aetna-lawsuit-against-clinics.html
Aetna Inc.  is suing seven California
surgery centers for a billing system that it claims “recklessly
subverts” health care delivery with charges of as much as
$66,100 for a bunion repair.  The lawsuit seeks to stop the centers from waiving the co-
insurance payments people are supposed to be charged when they
use doctors or facilities that don’t have contracts with their
insurers. By not requiring such payments for so-called out-of-
network care, the centers illegally lured patients, and then
billed Aetna up to 2,500 percent more than what the company pays
its contracted providers for procedures, according to the suit.  Aetna claims the centers shared the profits with doctors
who own the facilities, giving them incentives to refer clients
with the most generous insurance plans.  The “scheme must be promptly declared illegal to preclude
its continuation and replication throughout  California , and to
avoid the potential consequences of irreparably damaging a
system of healthcare delivery on which millions of citizens
rely,” according to the suit, filed in California state court 
in Santa Clara County.  The complaint names 11 defendants, including  Bay Area
Surgical Management  LLC, known as BASM, and six centers it
manages. BASM’s general counsel, Brian Blatz, called the
allegations “baseless” and said Aetna is retaliating against
BASM for two suits it filed against Aetna seeking to collect on
unpaid medical bills. Those cases haven’t gone to trial.  Joe Montana’s Elbow  BASM manages 11 surgery clinics, imaging centers and
medical laboratories in Silicon Valley, which is south of  San
Francisco , and counts famous surgeons among its 90 or so
physician-investors, according to its website.  One of them, orthopedist Michael Dillingham, co-owns SOAR
Surgery Center in Burlingame, California, a BASM clinic named in
the Aetna complaint. Dillingham was team doctor for the  National
Football League ’s San Francisco 49ers in the 1980s and 1990s,
operating on quarterback  Joe Montana ’s elbow, quarterback  Steve
Young ’s shoulder and receiver  Jerry Rice ’s knee. Another SOAR
partner, Kenneth Akizuki, performed surgery on San Francisco
Giants’ catcher  Buster Posey ’s ankle after the Major League
Baseball player’s collision at home plate ended his season last
year. Akizuki is listed as a surgeon at Pacific Heights Surgery
Center in San Francisco, which Aetna names in its complaint.  Neither Dillingham nor Akizuki are defendants. Officials at
the Pacific Heights clinic couldn’t immediately be reached for
comment. Karen Sollar, chief executive officer of SOAR’s medical
group, said she hadn’t seen the complaint and couldn’t comment.  ‘Push Us Around’  Hartford, Connecticut-based Aetna is attempting to muscle
BASM into signing a provider contract with unfairly low rates,
said Bobby Sarnevesht, one of three BASM executives named as
defendants. “This is the 800-pound gorilla saying, ‘You better
take this contract,’” he said. “They’re big, rich and they can
push us around, and there’s not much we can do about it.”  Aetna’s allegations concern so-called facility charges,
which medical clinics bill for the use of its rooms and for
drugs, equipment and other supplies.  According to the suit, Aetna paid SOAR Surgery Center $1.9
million in facility charges for 152 procedures between October
2008 and September 2011, or 513 percent more than what Aetna
paid its in-network providers in Northern California for the
same procedures.  Hip Jobs  The suit says Aetna paid the SOAR clinic $22,027 each in
the fees for two shoulder arthroscopies, compared to $2,130 for
the same at facilities with which Aetna has contracts; and
$16,000 to drain joint fluid, which cost Aetna $1,124 at
contracted clinics.  At the BASM-run Bay Area Surgical Group Inc., the suit says
Aetna paid an average $119,671 each in fees for 12 lower-back
disk surgeries, compared with $6,175 each at contracted
facilities, and an average $46,454 apiece in facility charges
for six outpatient hip jobs, as opposed to $4,949 at in-patient
centers. On the $66,100 bunion facility charge, Aetna paid Bay
Area Surgical Group $52,880, versus $3,677 to in-network
providers, the suit claims.  Aetna has accused out-of-network providers of gouging in at
least six lawsuits. In five filed in superior court in Camden,
 New Jersey , the insurer is suing six physicians for billing what
Aetna calls “unconscionable” rates, including $56,980 for a
bedside consultation and $59,490 for an ultrasound that
typically costs $74. The doctors deny the claims.  In another Aetna suit in state court in Houston, it claims 
two physicians referred patients to their out-of-network
hospital and charged insurers as much as $99,750 to remove ear
wax. The defendants deny wrongdoing.  The case is Aetna Life Insurance Co. v. Bay Area Surgical 
Management LLC, 112CV217943, Santa Clara County Superior Court.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Peter Waldman in San Francisco at 
 pwaldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gary Putka at   gputka@bloomberg.net  