-- California’s Solo Mortgage Probe Complicated by 2008 Deal
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-02-03T18:56:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/california-s-solo-mortgage-probe-may-be-hamstrung-by-2008-deal.html
California  Attorney General Kamala Harris objects to giving banks broad releases of liability for
predatory lending. At the same time, she may be locked into her
predecessor’s 2008 settlement with the largest lender in the
state during the mortgage boom that does exactly that.  Facing a Feb. 6 deadline to join a proposed multistate
agreement over foreclosure practices said to be worth as much as
$25 billion if California joins, Harris has said she won’t sign
onto a deal blocking her from investigating whether the five
largest U.S. mortgage servicers misled homeowners about the
terms of their loans, among other issues.  One of the five lenders involved in the talks,  Bank of
America Corp ., reached an agreement in 2008 with Harris’s
predecessor,  Jerry Brown , who is now governor, that bars its
Countrywide Financial unit’s mortgage holders from pursuing
claims of the type that Harris wants to investigate.  Based on the “broad release” contained in the agreement,
“it is unclear on what grounds Kamala Harris would pursue
lending violations by Countrywide,” said  Guy Cecala , publisher
of Inside Mortgage Finance, an industry publication.  Harris, 47, whose state is the most populous and leads the
nation in foreclosure filings for housing units, has described
as “inadequate” the proposed settlement state and federal
officials have been negotiating for more than a year with
 Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of America,  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Wells Fargo & Co . and  Ally Financial Inc (ALLY) .  The foreclosure probe, which had involved attorneys general
from all 50 states, began in October 2010 following disclosures
that banks were using faulty documents to seize homes.  Principal Writedowns  The proposed accord would set requirements for how lenders
conduct home foreclosures and mandate that the banks fund loan
principal writedowns for homeowners and provide refinancings,
said a person familiar with the matter who didn’t want to be
identified because the terms aren’t public.  With California’s share of the settlement said to be at
least $6 billion, a decision by Harris to opt out would put
pressure on her to extract more favorable terms from the banks,
Ken Scott, a Stanford University law professor, said in a phone
interview.  For Harris, “the rationale has to be, ‘We’re going to get
so much more it will have been worthwhile, and that’s a
gamble’” Scott said. While the attorney general may “get the
glory,” he said, “the risk and the possibility that isn’t the
outcome is being born by the borrowers.”  Credit Crisis  Countrywide, which was based in Calabasas, California, and
was acquired by Bank of America in 2008, was “by far the
largest mortgage lender in the state” before the credit crisis,
Cecala said. In 2006, Countrywide reported that while
residential loans in the U.S. had tripled since 2000, from
$1 trillion to $2.9 trillion, Countrywide’s origination business
grew about three times faster, from $62 billion in 2000 to $463
billion in 2006, according to a court filing.  Based on the liability release in the 2008 settlement, in
which Bank of America resolved fraud complaints in 11 states by
agreeing to  pledge $8.7 billion  in assistance to Countrywide
borrowers, “BofA wouldn’t seem to have much reason to pay still
more for the benefit of anyone already covered by it,” Scott
said.  Harris, through spokesman Shum Preston, declined to comment
on the Countrywide settlement or the multistate negotiations.  Gil Duran , a spokesman for Brown, had no immediate comment.  2008 Accord  The 2008 accord required Countrywide to reduce amounts owed
by borrowers, cut their  interest rates , and provide relocation
assistance for homeowners who lost or almost lost their homes to
foreclosure. In exchange, borrowers who received payments from
the deal were required to release Countrywide from liability,
preventing them from pursuing “remedies of whatever kind”
arising under “any source whatsoever,” meaning any statute,
regulation, rule or common law.  The releases covered “without limitation, the origination
of that loan and any representations or omissions made during
that origination process,” according to the agreement.  The release went further, requiring borrowers to waive any
potential liability concerning the “servicing or administration
of that loan following its origination.”  An Obstacle  Another person familiar with negotiations in the multistate
deal said that while the 2008 agreement may present an obstacle
to an investigation of origination claims by Harris, her lawyers
have identified ways in which Countrywide may be violating the
accord. The compliance failures may be grounds to terminate the
settlement, said the person, who didn’t want to be identified
because the negotiations aren’t public.  The agreement requires the bank to meet a quota of loan
modifications, the person said. Bank of America may be
overstating its compliance by taking credit for modifications on
loans even though it later sought foreclosure against those
homeowners when they fell behind on payments, the person said.
The person also said that while the settlement may bar
investigation of any predatory lending by Bank of America before
2008, such behavior after the date of the agreement is fair
game.  Bank of America has “adhered to the letter and spirit of
our agreements with the  attorneys general  since 2008,” Richard
Simon, a spokesman for the bank, said in an e-mail.  Since 2010, 46 U.S. states have signed onto the settlement,
he said, and are partaking in the National Homeownership
Retention Program providing loan modification, foreclosure
relief and relocation assistance, Simon said.  $5.3 Billion  Bank of America is “performing at or above the program
expectations,” Simon said. The company expected it would offer
as much as $3.4 billion in principal and interest savings to
California homeowners, and through the third quarter of last
year the offers have exceeded $5.3 billion, he said in the e-
mail.  At least one state, Nevada, already has sought to undo an
agreement over home-loan modifications tied to Countrywide,
claiming the lender failed to meet its obligations.  Nevada 
Attorney General Catherine Cortez Masto sued Bank of America in
December 2010. The two sides are now in a dispute over pretrial
evidence gathering, or discovery, in federal court in Reno,
Nevada. The bank seeks to dismiss the case, according to court
filings.  In a Jan. 30 status report on the case, Masto’s lawyers
accused the bank of stalling tactics that they said
“underscores the gamesmanship” the state faces.  ‘Time-Sensitive’  “Given the critical, time-sensitive issues in this case --
whether Nevada consumers will continue to lose their homes while
they wait for or are denied help promised by the defendants --
the state urges that the solution is not simply to extend
discovery deadlines,” attorneys for Masto wrote in the court
filing.  Jennifer Lopez , a spokesman for Masto’s office, declined to
comment on the case.  Bank of America , in its court filing, has said it has
engaged in an “aggressive, systematic, and unprecedented”
collection and production of documents. Bank of America has been
“exceedingly open” with Masto’s lawyers, according to the
filing.  In December, Harris and Masto, who has also criticized the
proposed nationwide settlement as inadequate, announced they
would jointly investigate wrongdoing in mortgage loan
origination, servicing and securitization, and will share
litigation strategies, information and evidence.  Cecala, of Inside Mortgage Finance, said the peril of
mounting such an investigation “probably is a good argument for
California to get on board” with the multistate agreement.  “Does the state have the wherewithal to launch a major
investigation of all foreclosures of all lenders in the state,
or even the five that are a party to the attorneys general
settlement currently pending?” he said. “We’re talking about
millions of loans.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at
   jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  