-- Canada to Boost Efforts to Monitor Oil-Sands Pollution
-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n
-- 2012-02-03T23:01:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/canada-alberta-to-boost-efforts-to-monitor-oil-sands-pollution.html
Canada  and the province of  Alberta 
will expand monitoring and increase air and water testing at
 oil-sands  operations as the projects attract record investment
and greater environmental scrutiny.  “We will be monitoring in more places, more frequently,”
federal Environment Minister Peter Kent said at a press briefing
in  Edmonton , Alberta today. “We will make the system highly
transparent,” he said.  Detecting cumulative environmental impacts and coordinating
provincial and federal government efforts are key elements of
the program, according to a copy of the joint implementation
plan. The program will cost as much as C$50 million ($50
million) annually to implement in the first three years,
according to the report.  A panel which included former  TransCanada Corp. (TRP)  Chief
Executive Officer Hal Kvisle, was appointed in January 2011 by
the provincial government to make recommendations on how to
improve efforts to track pollution caused by oil-sands
development. The advisers made 20 recommendations, including the
establishment of a new monitoring system and a publicly-
accessible data-management program.  Data collected from the program will aid governments’ and
the industry’s environmental policy making, Kent said. The
program will be reviewed every five years by scientists and
academics, he said.  Right Track  “They’re on the right track,” Jennifer Grant, oil-sands
program director at the Pembina Institute, an environmental
think tank and consultancy, said in an interview today. “Only
if monitoring is credible and free of political spin will it
help improve the negative image of the oil sands.”  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and  Suncor Energy Inc. (SU)  are among the
companies extracting bitumen from the province’s oil sands.
Energy producers have invested C$123 billion in Canada’s oil
sands since 1997, according to the Canadian Energy Research
Institute. CERI estimates that these companies will invest a
further C$137 billion by 2020 to tap into the 173 billion
barrels of estimated reserves.  Bitumen mining creates toxic waste ponds and causes the
destruction of forests and animal habitats, in addition to
increasing greenhouse-gas emissions, the Pembina Institute said
in a report in 2011.  “A world-class environmental monitoring system will
contribute to improved performance reporting, regional planning
and industry-performance improvement as the oil-sands industry
continues to grow,” Dave Collyer, president of the Canadian
Association of Petroleum Producers, an industry lobby group,
said in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  