-- Carlyle Drops Class-Action Lawsuit Ban as Opposition Mounts
-- B y   M i l e s   W e i s s ,   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n   a n d   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 2012-02-03T22:57:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/carlyle-drops-class-action-lawsuit-ban.html
Carlyle Group LP abandoned a plan to
ban shareholders from filing class-action lawsuits after U.S.
regulators threatened to block a stock sale the private-equity
firm is seeking to complete as soon as April.  The Washington-based firm amended the documents for its
initial public offering on Jan. 10 to include a provision that
would have required future stockholders to resolve any claim
against Carlyle through arbitration rather than in court. The
move provoked controversy among lawmakers and shareholder rights
advocates, who urged the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
not to approve the arbitration clause.  The SEC subsequently told Carlyle that it wouldn’t sign off
on the IPO as long as the provision was included, according to a
statement the agency issued today. In addition, the proposal was
likely to draw opposition from public pensions and agencies,
which provided about 40 percent of the capital commitments to
Carlyle’s funds as of Sept. 30 and would also have been
potential customers for the IPO.  “My guess is they were getting pushback from investors”
on the arbitration provision, said Stephen Bainbridge, a
corporate and securities law professor at the UCLA School of Law
in  Los Angeles . “Probably their underwriters were telling them
that the investor community was not going to go for it.”  Trial Lawyers Opposed  The  American Association  for Justice, the primary trade
group for trial lawyers, urged its members to contact public
pension funds and ask them to weigh in with Carlyle and the SEC,
according to Michelle Widmann, a spokeswoman for the Washington-
based association. The Council of Institutional Investors, an
association of pension funds, endowments and foundations that
oversee more than $3 trillion in assets, had also placed the
Carlyle proposal on its policy committee agenda for review,
according to Jeff Mahoney, the organization’s general counsel.  The underwriters Carlyle picked for the IPO, including
JPMorgan Chase & Co., Citigroup Inc. and Credit Suisse Group AG,
are planning a road show early in the second quarter to market
the shares to investors, according to a person with direct
knowledge of the plans, who asked not to be identified because
the information isn’t public. The road show is one of the final
steps before a company goes public.  Carlyle’s initiative followed a series of  U.S. Supreme
Court (1000L)  rulings that said arbitration was the preferred method of
resolving disputes between corporations and their customers and
employees. That concept could have been extended to U.S.
securities markets had Carlyle succeeded in going public with a
mandatory-arbitration clause.  Earlier SEC Decision  More than two decades ago, the SEC blocked a stock sale by
Franklin First Financial Corp., a Wilkes Barre,  Pennsylvania ,
savings and loan that had also included a mandatory-arbitration
provision in its corporate charter, according to Carl Schneider,
a former securities attorney who represented the thrift.  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, said that the agency was prepared to
take similar steps in response to Carlyle’s IPO.  “We advised them that the staff was not prepared to clear
the filing with the mandatory-arbitration provision included,”
Nester said in an e-mailed statement. “We are pleased they have
announced that they plan to remove this provision.”  Carlyle believed that arbitrating claims would have been
more efficient, cost effective and beneficial for its investors,
 Chris Ullman , a spokesman for the firm, said in a statement. The
buyout firm decided to withdraw the proposal “after
consultations with the SEC, Carlyle investors and other
interested parties,” according to the statement.  ‘Statutory Rights’  Democratic Senators Richard Blumenthal of  Connecticut , Al Franken of  Minnesota  and Robert Menendez of  New Jersey  today
urged SEC Chairman Mary Shapiro not to clear the IPO unless
Carlyle drops the arbitration clause. Schapiro also served as
one of the agency’s five commissioners in the late 1980s, when
the SEC blocked the Franklin First IPO.  The provision “would unlawfully deprive investors of their
ability to vindicate their statutory rights,” the senators
wrote. The SEC should “maintain its longstanding policy of
opposing the inclusion of provisions requiring mandatory
arbitration of shareholder disputes.”  Former SEC Chairman Harvey Pitt said the issue probably
faced a 3-2 ideological split on the current commission, which
includes two Republicans, two Democrats and a politically
independent chairman who usually votes with the Democrats. If it
had come to a different commission, the odds may have been
better, he said in an interview yesterday.  ‘Done Its Job’  “If somebody tells you that you’re going to have a very
different set of remedies if you make this investment, and you
still want to invest, it seems to me government has done its
job,” said Pitt, a Republican. “It would have passed on my
commission.”  Carlyle, co-founded by David Rubenstein,  William Conway  and
 Daniel D’Aniello , would be at least the fifth buyout firm to go
public since  Fortress Investment Group LLC (FIG)  held an IPO in
February 2007, followed by  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , KKR & Co. and
 Apollo Global Management LLC (APOLLZ) . Carlyle would have been the first
to impose an arbitration requirement, according to copies of the
limited-partnership agreements the companies have on their
websites or in SEC filings.  Blackstone was named in six 2008 lawsuits that were later
consolidated into a class-action complaint alleging that the
prospectus for the company’s IPO was false and misleading, in
part because it overstated the value of the firm’s private-
equity and real estate investments.  Carlyle Capital Corp.  The plaintiffs seek damages and costs, as well as other
relief, Blackstone said in its latest quarterly report, adding
that the case is “totally without merit” and that the firm
intends to “vigorously” defend itself.  Blackstone shares trade at about 46 percent below the
company’s June 2007 IPO price of $31 each.  From 2009 through 2011, Carlyle was targeted in lawsuits
tied to  Carlyle Capital Corp (CCC) ., a publicly traded bond fund the
buyout firm shuttered at a cost of more than $152 million after
its assets plummeted in value. The plaintiffs include Carlyle
Capital’s liquidators, who sought $1 billion in damages through
four complaints filed in July 2010 in  Delaware ,  New York , the
 District of Columbia  and Guernsey. Two of the complaints have
since been dismissed.  ‘Competitiveness’ at Stake  The independent Committee on  Capital Markets  Regulation, in
a November 2006 report requested by then-U.S. Treasury Secretary
 Henry Paulson , recommended that public companies be allowed to
hold shareholder votes on the use of arbitration to resolve
 securities law  and other claims. The threat of class-action
suits was discouraging private as well as foreign companies from
going public in the U.S., the committee said.  “What’s at stake is the competitiveness of our capital
markets,”  Hal Scott , a professor at Harvard Law School in
Cambridge,  Massachusetts , and the committee’s director, said in
an interview today. “If the SEC is going to take this position,
we are all entitled to know why they think securities class
actions are helpful.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Miles Weiss in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net ;
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  