-- Genting-Backed Casino Bill Stalls in Florida Legislature
-- B y   M i c h a e l   C .   B e n d e r
-- 2012-02-03T17:51:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/casino-measure-backed-by-genting-blocked-by-florida-legislative-committee.html
Plans by  Genting Bhd. ,  Asia ’s second-
biggest casino operator by market value, to build a 5,200-room
resort overlooking Miami’s  Biscayne Bay  stalled when a Florida
House of Representatives committee postponed a vote on a bill to
expand casino gambling.  Today’s decision from the House Business and Consumer
Affairs Subcommittee leaves little chance lawmakers will approve
the issue this year. Representative Doug Holder, a Sarasota
Republican and committee chairman, said the panel will not meet
before the end of the legislative session March 9.  “This was a recipe that just was not complete,” Holder,
who opposed the bill, said after the meeting in Tallahassee, the
capital. “It had all the right ingredients, but it wasn’t
finished.”  The Kuala Lumpur company announced plans in September to
build a $3 billion casino in Miami and obtained 30 acres of
bayfront property.  Walt Disney Co ., the  Florida  Chamber of
Commerce and the Seminole Tribe of Florida, which operates five
gambling sites, all opposed the measure.  The Malaysian company announced a deal worth $236 million
in cash to buy almost 14 acres that is home to  McClatchy Co. ’s
Miami Herald newspaper and also bought the $206 million mortgage
on the foreclosed Omni Center, the Miami Herald reported.  It’s Not Over  The company, which seeks to build the largest U.S.
convention center in  New York City , contributed $629,529 in the
final seven months of 2011 to Florida lawmakers, parties and
political committees, including $385,000 to the state  Republican
Party , which controls the Legislature and the Governor’s Office,
according to state records.  Jessica Hoppe, vice president of Resorts World Miami, the
name of the Genting project, said the company had not decided
whether to take the issue directly to voters.  “We’re going to regroup and see where this will go,”
Hoppe said. “This is an issue for Florida that does not end
today.”  Representative Erik Fresen, a Miami Republican who wrote
the bill, asked the committee to postpone its vote. The delay
avoided a sensitive vote for some lawmakers on the panel during
an election year.  House Speaker Dean Cannon, an Orlando-area Republican, has
refused to reassign bills to different committees. The House
could take up the issue without Cannon’s approval with a two-
thirds vote.  “The speaker does not believe there is support for such a
motion, nor would he entertain such a motion,” Cannon
spokeswoman Katie Betta said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael C. Bender in Tallahassee at 
 mbender10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  