-- Caterpillar to Close Canadian Locomotive Plant Due to Costs
-- B y   S h r u t i   D a t e   S i n g h
-- 2012-02-03T20:13:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/caterpillar-to-close-canadian-locomotive-plant-due-to-costs.html
Caterpillar Inc., (CAT)  the largest
construction and mining-equipment maker, plans to close a
Canadian locomotive plant that employs about 800 people after
failing to reach an agreement with locked-out union members.  “The cost structure of the operation was not sustainable
and efforts to negotiate a new, competitive collective agreement
were not successful,” a subsidiary of Peoria, Illinois-based
Caterpillar, said in a statement today.  Caterpillar acquired the Ontario plant in 2010 when it
bought Electro-Motive Diesel to expand its share of the
locomotive market, competing against companies such as General
Electric Co. North American demand will increase in the next two
years as companies buy locomotives before emissions rule
changes, according to a Nov. 13 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. report.  The company’s lockout began Jan. 1 after discussions broke
down with the Canadian Auto Workers union, which represents more
than half of the plant’s workers. The company was proposing
cutting wages and benefits in half, the union said today.
Caterpillar’s subsidiary  said  the plant was at a competitive
disadvantage because of costs and it will shift work to other
factories.  “We are totally devastated,” Ken Lewenza, president of
the union, said in a telephone interview today. “We find the
decision unconscionable.”  Caterpillar Profit  About 475 employees represented by the union and 300
salaried employees work at the plant, Lewenza said. An
additional 1,200 jobs are supported in the surrounding community
by the plant, he said.  Caterpillar will see profit rise on increasing heavy
equipment demand in  Canada  as the mining and oil-sands
industries expand, Lewenza said. The union has asked for support
from the federal government.  The company last week reported  2011 sales  for Electro-
Motive Diesel rose by $861 million, while profit declined by $7
million. Caterpillar forecast a 25 percent rise in per-share
earnings this year, to about $9.25 from a record $7.40 in 2011
as demand rises for shovels and trucks used in mines.  Caterpillar began producing locomotives at a plant in
Muncie,  Indiana , last year and in July said it planned another
factory in Sete Lagoas,  Brazil . Locomotives are the engines that
pull railcars.  ‘Stand Up’  Lewenza said he will meet with the union bargaining
committee to explore alternatives to closing the factory and
discuss agreements that give workers some economic support.  Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  should “stand up and fight”
for workers at the plant, said  Ralph Goodale , a lawmaker for the
opposition  Liberal Party  in Canada.  “The government owes the workers here a substantial
amount, because there were particular incentives and advantages
offered to this company,” Goodale, a former finance minister,
told reporters today in Ottawa.  “We sympathize with the workers,” Richard Walker, a
spokesman for Canadian Industry Minister Christian Paradis, said
in an e-mail today. The federal government has tried to protect
the manufacturing sector by cutting corporate tax rates,
eliminating tariffs on machinery and equipment by 2015 and
extending work-sharing agreements to protect workers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shruti Singh in Chicago at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  