-- Chavez Warns U.S. Consumer Giants Ahead of Price Regulation
-- B y   N a t h a n   C r o o k s   a n d   D a n i e l   C a n c e l
-- 2012-02-03T15:23:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/chavez-says-he-ll-nationalize-companies-that-don-t-limit-prices.html
Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez  said
he will nationalize consumer goods companies, including
“transnationals,” that fail to comply with price controls
being prepared by the government.  The regulations may affect companies including  Procter &
Gamble Co .,  Colgate-Palmolive Co. (CL)  and  Johnson & Johnson . A study
showed consumers are being overcharged for cleaning products and
personal care items, Chavez said on state television yesterday
during an event to celebrate his 13 years in power.  “We are getting ready to announce the new fair prices, and
prices will go down,” Chavez said. “If a company doesn’t
accept the new prices, we will nationalize it. We don’t have any
problem doing that. Some of the companies to be affected are
transnationals.”  Chavez, who is seeking to slow the region’s highest
inflation rate of 27.6 percent, said in November that new
regulations would set price caps on  consumer goods  to prevent
companies from “ransacking the people.” The government
immediately froze the price of 18 personal care items from
toothpaste to toilet paper until “fair prices” could be set by
regulators.  The announcement to set the new prices, which was
originally expected on Jan. 15, has been delayed twice.  ‘Straitjacket’  Venezuelan central bank director  Armando Leon  said in a
Nov. 25 interview that trying to regulate all consumer prices
may be an economic “straitjacket” and that enforcement of the
law would require as many as 40,000 inspectors.  The implementation of the price law will probably focus on
“highly visible packaged consumer goods,” Bank of America
Corp. economist Francisco Rodriguez said in a Feb. 1 report.  Guidelines published in the nation’s Official Gazette last
year require companies to register with the national price
regulator and disclose their costs for production, distribution
and sales. They also must provide information about local and
international suppliers, raw materials and technological
transfers.  Colgate,  Avon Products Inc. (AVP)  and  Clorox Co. (CLX)  depend on
Venezuela for 5.2 percent, 4.1 percent and 2.1 percent of total
sales, respectively,  Ali Dibadj , a consumer analyst at Sanford
C. Bernstein & Co. said in a November report.  ‘Uncertainty’  Some retailers have stopped ordering new products due to
the uncertainty over the final price to consumers, Jon Moeller,
chief financial officer of Cincinnati-based Procter & Gamble
said in a Jan. 27 teleconference.  “We’re facing some market-specific impacts, including
government pricing interventions being made in Venezuela,”
Moeller said. “Because of the uncertainty leading up to an
eventual announcement, some retailers have stopped ordering for
fear that they will end up with inventory that costs more than
the price the new laws may allow them to sell those inventories
at.”  Colgate-Palmolive isn’t expecting to be able to raise
prices in Venezuela in 2012, Ian Cook, president of the New
York-based company said in a Jan. 26 teleconference.  “The guidance that we are giving in terms of our approach
in 2012 is, obviously, compliant with that government regulation
with no pricing, no new pricing,” Cook said.  The announcement of new price regulations in November
sparked panic purchases by consumers and led to shortages of
everything from coffee to toilet paper.  Chavez threatened companies with nationalization after
devaluing the bolivar for the first time in five years in 2010.
He seized a joint venture retailer owned by  France ’s  Casino
Guichard Perrachon SA (CO)  and  Colombia ’s  Almacenes Exito SA (EXITO)  for
allegedly raising prices after the weakening of the currency.  “Some companies are threatening us and saying that price
caps will create shortages, but I’ll nationalize all of it,”
Chavez said yesterday. “It’s not something I want to do, but if
they force me to do it, I will.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nathan Crooks in Caracas at 
 ncrooks@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Cancel in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 