-- Cheap Shots at Romney ‘Poor’ Gaffe, Free Pass for Tax Plan: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-02-03T00:00:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/cheap-shots-for-romney-s-poor-gaffe-and-free-pass-for-his-tax-plan-view.html
By now it seems everyone has chewed
over Mitt Romney’s gaffe about poor people and spit out the
ideologically determined opinion. Speaking this week to CNN
anchor Soledad O’Brien after his victory in the Florida
Republican primary, Romney blurted out, “I’m not concerned about
the very poor.”  For Democratic partisans, the  video , an early valentine,
speaks for itself. But even conservatives  criticized  Romney for
ham-handedness or for failing to articulate the proper vision of
upward mobility. The news media, facing a dreaded lull in the
presidential contest, naturally piled on.  The harsh reaction was unfair, but in a particularly
galling fashion. Pressed to clarify his remark, Romney said, “My
focus is on middle-income Americans,” and added, “These are the
people who’ve been most badly hurt during the Obama years.”  However awkwardly expressed, Romney’s meaning seemed plain
for those willing to hear him out: He was pitching his lot with
the middle class, but meant no harm to the poor. In fact, in the
interview Romney made a commitment: “I’m not concerned about the
very poor that have a safety net, but if it has holes in it, I
will repair them.” You can read the transcripts of all 19
Republican presidential debates and not find a more compelling
promise to the hard-pressed.  The real problem with Romney’s remarks is that they bear
little resemblance to his comparatively uncontroversial economic
 plan . According to the  Tax Policy Center , a joint project of the
 Brookings Institution  and the  Urban Institute , “Believe in
America,” Romney’s economic blueprint, would impose fresh
burdens on the poor, cutting anti-poverty programs while
simultaneously depriving lawmakers of the money to repair the
holes. As for the middle class, it is hard to argue that it
is a primary “focus,” at least if you follow the money in the
candidate’s plan.  A few examples. Romney would end tax credits for higher
education, the expansion of the Earned Income Tax Credit and
other provisions enacted in 2009 to counter the recession. While
taxes for many poor people would rise, taxes on the middle class
would generally decline somewhat and taxes on the wealthiest
would decline substantially. Romney would repeal health
insurance for the working poor, repeal the estate tax and
permanently extend the Bush tax cuts. The  Tax Policy Center 
calculates that in 2015 Romney’s plan would generate an average
break of $865,637 to the top 0.1 percent of taxpayers.  Romney’s plan would also put government on less solid
footing. Compared with current federal policy, Romney’s plan
would add an additional $180 billion to the federal deficit in
2015. Calculated by a more exacting standard -- current law --
his policies would increase the deficit by $600 billion. Nothing
in the plan suggests that the middle class would be exempt from
interest and principal payments on the extra debt accrued.  In the foreword to Romney’s “Believe in America,” economist
R. Glenn Hubbard, who served as chairman of the  Council of
Economic Advisers  under President  George W. Bush , notes that
“U.S. GDP growth has averaged 3.3 percent over the past 50
years. But in the 2002-2007 period, before the crisis’s eye of
the storm hit the financial system and the economy, that growth
averaged just 2.6 percent.”  Why this forthright assessment of the record of the  Bush
administration  appears in a Republican campaign document is a
mystery. For most of the half century of higher growth that
Hubbard cites, U.S. tax rates were sharply more progressive than
they have been since the Bush tax cuts took effect after 2001.  Instead of being pummeled for his inartful statements,
Romney should be asked to spell out how his economic plan
affects the poor, middle class and wealthy alike. Having a
political career reduced to caricature is unfair to any
candidate; not pressing candidates to explain how their rhetoric
meshes with their proposals is unfair to us all.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 