-- China Non-Manufacturing Industries’ Growth Slowed in January
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-03T01:17:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/china-non-manufacturing-industries-growth-slowed-in-january.html
A gauge of  China ’s non-manufacturing
industries expanded at a slower pace in January as growth in the
world’s second-largest economy cooled and the government
prolonged a campaign to cool property prices.  The  non-manufacturing purchasing managers’ index  fell to
52.9 from 56 in December, the National Bureau of Statistics and
China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing said in a statement
today in Beijing. A reading above 50 indicates an expansion.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  has pledged to expand services and
consumer spending to boost jobs and help sustain growth as
 Europe ’s debt crisis threatens exports and property sales slide.
The government said it will increase credit to smaller companies,
including some service providers, and local authorities are
raising minimum wages, pensions and welfare payments.  “Sliding construction during the low season dragged down
the overall growth rate” of the index, countering the “sound
performance of holiday-related retail sales” and transportation,
Cai Jin, a federation vice chairman, said in the statement.  The government needs to stabilize the expansion of domestic
demand and raise the growth potential of service industries with
more fiscal support such as “structural” tax cuts to boost
 consumer spending , the federation said in the statement.  Sales by retailers and restaurants during the weeklong
Lunar New Year holiday ended Jan. 28 rose 16.2 percent from a
year earlier on higher sales of clothes, jewelry and food,
according to data from the Ministry of Commerce.  By contrast, home sales in the nation’s four biggest cities,
including Beijing and  Shanghai , fell 66 percent to 109 units
during the festival compared with the holiday period last year,
according to data from Centaline Property Agency Ltd., China’s
biggest real-estate brokerage.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Li Yanping in Beijing at 
 yli16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  