-- China to Limit Mortgage Loans for Foreign Home Buyers to Stem Investments
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-03T02:57:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/china-to-limit-mortgage-loans-for-foreign-home-buyers-to-stem-investments.html
China  will limit mortgage loans for
home purchases by foreigners to stem overseas investment in its
 property  market as part of efforts to cool prices.  The nation’s planning agency won’t approve medium- and
long-term foreign debt quotas for overseas banks in 2012, if
they intend to use such borrowings to fund mortgages taken out
by foreigners, the National Development and Reform Commission
said in a  statement .  Premier  Wen Jiabao  this week reiterated that the government
will maintain curbs on the  property market  to bring prices down
to a reasonable level. China last year increased down-payment
requirements and  mortgage rates  on some homes and imposed
housing purchase restrictions in about 40 cities.  “This is actually only going to have a perceivable impact
on the mid-to-high end of the market,” James MacDonald, head of
China research for Savills Property Services ( Shanghai ) Co.,
said in a phone interview. “Foreign buyers only make up a tiny
proportion of the overall China market and are not very active
in the ultra high-end or mass market.”  China in November 2010 ordered first-time foreign
homebuyers to show proof they don’t own other properties in the
country, along with proof of at least a year’s employment in
China before their purchases. The foreign currency regulator
said at the time it will introduce new rules on currency
provisioning and tighten management of banks’ foreign-debt
quotas to curb hot-money inflows that may inflate asset bubbles.  Foreigners make up 1 million out of China’s 1.3 billion
people, and not all of them buy properties, MacDonald said.  Foreign banks in China had about 1 trillion yuan ($159
billion) of loans outstanding at the end of September,
accounting for 2.3 percent of the nation’s total advances,
according to the  China Banking Regulatory Commission .  Yuan-denominated funds borrowed by foreign banks from
overseas with maturity of one-year or longer will also be
considered as foreign debt, according to the statement.  --Luo Jun, Bonnie Cao. Editors: Andreea Papuc, Tomoko Yamazaki  To contact Bloomberg News staff of this story:
Luo Jun in Shanghai at 
 jluo6@bloomberg.net ;
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  