-- Commodity Ship Hired at Zero Cost as Freight Rates Plunge 63% This Year
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   W i e s e   B o c k m a n n
-- 2012-02-03T15:57:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/commodity-ship-is-hired-at-zero-cost-as-freight-rates-plunge-63-this-year.html
D/S Norden A/S (DNORD)  (DNORD),  Europe ’s biggest
publicly trading commodity shipping company, hired a Supramax
vessel at no cost other than fuel charges, its first such
transaction in a quarter century.  The carrier is currently off the Spanish coast, Jens Peter
Skaarup, a spokesman for the Hellerup, Denmark-based shipowner,
said in an e-mail today. It will haul a cargo of gypsum, used to
make plasterboard, to the U.S. East Coast.  The  Baltic Dry Index (BDIY) , a measure of commodity shipping
costs, slumped for a 33rd session today to the lowest since
August 1986, according to the Baltic Exchange in London.
Operators of the global dry-bulk fleet of more than 8,900 ships
are accepting unprofitable charters amid a glut of vessels, even
as global trade in commodities expands to a record.  Earnings for Supramaxes trading in the Atlantic region
“went from bad to worse,” the  Baltic Exchange  said in a report
to members today. “Some owners now talk of parking their
tonnage unless there’s an improvement soon.”  The Baltic Dry Index fell 63 percent this year as rents for
some voyages plunge to the lowest ever amid record monthly
deliveries of new ships, port disruptions caused by bad weather
and a week-long holiday in  China .  Hire costs for  Panamaxes (BPRATCR) , the largest that can transit the
Panama Canal, rose 1.9 percent to $5,509 a day, the first gain
since Dec. 19.  Capesizes (BCAVRT) , the biggest iron-ore carriers, slid
1.1 percent to $5,251, extending an 84 percent decline since
mid-December. Supramaxes fell for a 47th consecutive day, their
longest-ever losing streak, dropping 2 percent to $6,353, a
three-year low.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Wiese Bockmann in  London  at 
 mwiesebockma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  