-- Commercial Drones That Controllers Can’t See Challenge U.S. Air Safety
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2012-02-03T02:59:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/commercial-drones-unseen-by-controllers-pose-test-for-air-safety.html
Pilot groups are raising safety
concerns about letting small unmanned aircraft fly in U.S. skies
as Congress orders regulators to speed up introduction of drones
for domestic, non-military use.  The  Federal Aviation Administration  is about to issue its
first rules to let businesses and local  law enforcement  fly
drones in U.S. civilian airspace without special permits. The
agency, under a defense bill passed in December, has until June
to open six U.S. test sites where drones will fly with other
traffic.  Demand to use remote-controlled aircraft for such uses as
aerial photography has soared as planes ranging from a few
pounds to the size of a jetliner have proven their value with
the military in Iraq and Afghanistan, said Ben Gielow,
government relations manager for the  Association for Unmanned
Vehicle Systems International .  “This is a revolutionary type of technology,” Gielow said
in a phone interview. The Arlington, Virginia-based AUVSI has
2,100 members, including  Boeing Co. (BA)  subsidiary Insitu and  L-3
Communications Holdings Inc. (LLL)   There is no system that allows operators of unmanned
flights to spot and steer clear of helicopters and planes, and
there aren’t training requirements or standards for the ground-
based “pilots” who guide drones, Lee Moak, president of the
Air Line Pilots Association union, told reporters yesterday.
It’s also not clear how a remotely piloted craft would respond
to air-traffic controllers in an emergency, Moak said.  Until unmanned aircraft can demonstrate that they won’t
crash into other planes or the ground, they shouldn’t be allowed
to fly with other traffic, he said.  “We have a long way to go,” Moak said. ALPA is the
largest pilots’ union in  North America .  No Widespread Use  Drones are controlled by operators using radio-controlled
devices. Newer systems use tablet computers to send commands.  The FAA initially won’t allow their widespread use, said
 Doug Davis , who oversees the only U.S. civilian test bed for the
vehicles at  New Mexico State University . Based on
recommendations to the FAA from industry, flights probably will
be limited to devices weighing less than 55 pounds, he said.  Flights probably will be restricted to outside populated
areas, to no more than a few hundred feet off the ground, and
within sight of an operator on the ground, he said.  That would, at least at first, block use by police
departments and others who would like to get aerial views in
cities, Steven Gitlin, a spokesman for  AeroVironment Inc. (AVAV)  of
Monrovia,  California , said.  “Market adoption will probably start slow and speed up
over time as people get more experience with them,” Gitlin
said.  Privacy Issues  AeroVironment, the largest supplier of small drones to the
U.S. military, believes there could be significant sales of the
devices to law-enforcement agencies, utilities and others, he
said.  Only about 1 percent of the 18,000 U.S. police departments
have an aviation department. AeroVironment has developed a 5.5-
pound hovercraft for law enforcement, called the  Qube , which
would cost about $50,000, Gitlin said.  “There’s going to be a lot more of this discussion of the
privacy issue” once police, the news media or private
detectives are able to launch hard-to-see devices into the sky
with cameras, Davis said.  Drone Incidents  While accidents involving drones haven’t caused any known
fatalities in the U.S., their brief history has been marred by
at least two incidents.  In August 2010, the military considered shooting down a
Navy unmanned helicopter that went out of control and was flying
toward restricted airspace near Washington, according to a
transcript of a press conference by Admiral James Winnefeld, who
then commanded NORAD. The Navy regained radio contact with the
drone and guided it back to its base at Patuxent River Naval Air
Station, he said.  Last year in  Afghanistan , a drone collided with a military
C-130 cargo aircraft, according to Davis. The cargo plane landed
safely.  There are 295 active drone permits in the U.S., the FAA
said in an e-mailed statement acknowledging that it’s working on
a rule for their wider use.  The FAA has declined to identify the government agencies
and companies that have received permits, prompting a lawsuit
last year from the  Electronic Frontier Foundation , a San
Francisco-based free-speech advocacy group.  New Deadlines  Last year’s defense bill ordered the FAA to create six test
sites where unmanned flights could operate alongside regular
aircraft. The unmanned-vehicle industry lobbied for the change,
frustrated by what it sees as the slow pace of regulatory
change, Paul McDuffee, head of commercial development at Insitu,
said in an interview.  The FAA funding and policy bill expected to pass both
houses of Congress next week would order the agency to complete
a “comprehensive plan” on how to integrate unmanned flights
into the aviation system by Sept. 30, 2015.  Pilots are required to scan the skies to stay clear of
other aircraft, and video cameras can’t replace a pilot’s eyes,
Heidi Williams, senior director of airspace and modernization at
the Aircraft Owners and Pilots Association, said in an
interview. AOPA is a Frederick, Maryland-based group that
represents private pilots.  The military and industry are developing systems that can
track other planes and guide drones away from other traffic. So
far, the FAA hasn’t certified such a system for use.  McDuffee said he agrees with Moak’s and Williams’s safety
concerns.  “Will it be possible for peaceful coexistence between
manned aircraft and unmanned systems? Yes,” he said. “Will it
come quickly? No.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Levin in  Washington  at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  