-- Constant Contact Gains as Marketer’s Profit Beats Estimates: Boston Mover
-- B y   H e a t h e r   P e r l b e r g
-- 2012-02-03T21:34:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/constant-contact-gains-as-marketer-s-profit-beats-estimates-boston-mover.html
Constant Contact Inc (CTCT)  surged the most
since its initial public offering in 2007 after debuting a tool
for small businesses to create promotional pages on Facebook.  Since Facebook Inc. filed Feb. 1 to raise $5 billion in an
IPO, Constant Contact has jumped 25 percent. The provider of e-
mail marketing services surged 16 percent to $30.22 at the close
in New York, for the biggest one-day increase since going public
Oct. 3, 2007. The stock was the sixth best  performer  in the
 Russell 2000 Index. (RTY)   Constant Contact on Jan. 31 released Social Campaigns that
allows small businesses to build a following using Facebook.
About 10,000 users have tested the tool this year, according to
the Waltham, Massachusetts-based company.  “Businesses can launch these campaigns including weekly
specials, fundraisers, events, coupons and many other campaign
types to their Facebook fans, Twitter followers, LinkedIn
connections as well as their e-mail lists” Chief Executive
Officer Gail Goodman, said on a conference call yesterday.  “Confidence in the Social Campaigns products has
increased,” Steven Ashley, an analyst at Robert Baird and Co.
in  Milwaukee ,  Wisconsin , said in a telephone interview. “The
key question is when does it begin to get traction and how long
will it take before it begins to ramp up?”  Constant Contact derives most of its revenue from e-mail
marketing for small businesses, said Jeffrey Houston, an analyst
at Barrington Research Associates in  Chicago . Now people realize
that the new tool “may be small businesses’ best way to
capitalize on Facebook,” Houston said.  The company reported fourth-quarter profit yesterday,
excluding certain items, of 27 cents a share, topping the
average estimate of 24 cents of analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  Constant Contact’s full-year guidance of $250 million in
sales and profit of as much as 90 cents per share doesn’t
include the introduction of the new social tool, Houston said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Perlberg in  New York  at 
 hperlberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  