-- Cosell of NFL Films Predicts Giants Win on Super Bowl Sunday
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2012-02-04T05:08:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/cosell-of-nfl-films-predicts-giants-win-on-super-bowl-sunday.html
The  New York Giants , led by
quarterback  Eli Manning , will defeat the  New England Patriots  in
the Super Bowl on Feb. 5, predicted Greg Cosell, a senior
producer at NFL Films Inc.  Cosell, in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s
“Political Capital With Al Hunt” airing this weekend, said he
expects the Giants to win 27-24 at Lucas Oil Stadium in
Indianapolis. A factor will be the improved play of Manning
versus Patriots quarterback  Tom Brady , whose legacy of greatness
is “already in place,” Cosell said.  “Eli Manning this year has improved dramatically as a
quarterback, and I think as we enter the game, right now, he’s
playing better football than Tom Brady,” Cosell said.  The Giants’ offense, which relies heavily on three pass
receivers, may confound  New England  coach Bill Belichick, Cosell
said.  “I’ve been just agonizing over how he will be handling the
three wide receivers,” Cosell said. “I think Belichick will
have something up his sleeve,” possibly targeting the Giants’
“dynamic” wide receiver Victor Cruz and letting the other
defenders worry about the other two, he said.  The betting line at  Caesars Entertainment Corp (HET) .’s Las Vegas
casinos favored the Patriots by 3 points, according to
vegasinsider.com, a website specializing in sports gambling
information.  The Giants, 7-7 before winning their last two regular
season games and three playoff contests, have improved their
defense and their running game, Cosell said.  “They’ve sort of coalesced as this year has progressed,
and they’re playing pretty good football,” he said.  Two Tight Ends  The advantage for New England, 13-3 during the regular
season, is a two tight-end offense, Cosell said. Because of
that, the Giants’ pass rush, an important factor in its playoff
victories, won’t be a deciding factor this time, he said.  “When you play with two tight ends, you have way more
flexibility with your pass protection concepts,” Cosell said.
“Therefore, I don’t think the Giants’ pass rush will be a game-
changer the way a lot of people seem to think.”  The Giants defeated the Patriots, 17-14, in the 2008  Super
Bowl  in Glendale, Arizona, and 24-20 in a Nov. 6 regular-season
game at the Patriots’ home field in Foxboro,  Massachusetts .  Cosell, a nephew of the late sportscaster  Howard Cosell ,
has spent more than a quarter century with NFL Films. He is
executive producer of NFL Matchup, which airs Sundays on ESPN,
and a contributor to NFL Films’ pro football blog.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  