-- Credit-Default Swaps in U.S. Fall to Six-Month Low on Jobs Gain
-- B y   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2012-02-03T17:28:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/credit-default-swaps-in-u-s-fall-to-six-month-low-on-jobs-gain.html
A benchmark gauge of U.S. company
credit risk fell to the lowest level since August after the
jobless rate unexpectedly declined to a three-year trough,
stoking optimism that the world’s biggest economy is improving.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index of
credit-default swaps, which investors use to hedge against
losses on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness,
dropped by 4.1 basis points to a mid-price of 95 basis points at
11:59 a.m. in New York, according to Markit Group Ltd. It
touched 94.7, the lowest level since Aug. 1 on an intra-day
basis. Contracts tied to the debt of  Glencore International Plc (GLEN) 
and  Genworth Financial Inc. (GNW)  also fell.  The gauge declined after the Labor Department reported that
the  unemployment rate  decreased to 8.3 percent, the lowest since
February 2009. A 243,000 increase in payrolls was the most since
April, exceeding all forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey. The
report came after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said
yesterday the economy has shown signs of improvement, boosting
optimism in corporate profits and creditworthiness.  “The credit markets are particularly sensitive to changes
in the labor market outlook,” said Guy LeBas, chief fixed-
income strategist at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in
Philadelphia. “The expectation is that we will see improved
economic profitability.”  Service industries  in the U.S. expanded at the fastest pace
in almost a year, raising optimism that the economic recovery is
stronger than previously thought. The  Institute for Supply
Management ’s non-manufacturing index rose more than forecast to
56.8 in January from 53 in December.  Genworth CDS Drop  The swaps index, which was poised for its biggest daily
decline since Dec. 20, typically falls as investor confidence
improves and rises as it deteriorates.  Swaps tied to Genworth Financial declined 114.3 basis
points to 458.1 basis points, while those tied to Glencore
International fell 25.4 to 216.7, according to data provider
CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted
by dealers in the privately negotiated market.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sridhar Natarajan in  New York  at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  