-- Criminal Probe of Armstrong’s Bicycle-Racing Team Closes, Prosecutor Says
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-02-04T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/criminal-probe-of-lance-armstrong-bicycle-race-team-over-prosecutor-says.html
Lance Armstrong , the seven-time  tour
de France  champion, and his professional bicycle racing team are
no longer the subjects of a U.S. criminal probe, the U.S.
attorney in Los Angeles said.  No charges were filed against Armstrong, according to court
records there.  U.S. Attorney Andre Birotte Jr. said yesterday in an e-
mailed statement that the joint investigation by prosecutors
from his office, special agents of the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration, the  Federal Bureau of Investigation  and the U.S.
 Postal Service  “into allegations of federal criminal conduct by
members and associates of a professional bicycle racing team
owned in part by Lance Armstrong” was ending.  “The United States Attorney determined that a public
announcement concerning the closing of the investigation was
warranted by numerous reports about the investigation in media
outlets around the world,” according to the statement.  Federal prosecutors in  Los Angeles  had been investigating
Armstrong’s possible drug involvement, a person familiar with
the matter previously said. The person didn’t want to be
identified because details of the probe weren’t public.  Armstrong rode for the Postal Service team.  The probe of the doping allegations was led by  Jeff Novitzky , a criminal investigator with the FDA. Novitzky
previously investigated steroid use by professional athletes,
including former  San Francisco  Giants baseball player  Barry Bonds  and Olympic sprinter Marion Jones, who was convicted for
lying to grand juries about her steroid use. Bonds was convicted
by a jury last year of obstructing the probe. He is appealing
the conviction.  ‘Right Decision’  Armstrong, 40, a cancer survivor, retired from professional
cycling in February 2011 to focus on Livestrong, his cancer
charity. He has denied using banned performance-enhancing drugs
and has passed almost 500 tests over 20 years of competition,
his attorney has said. He won the Tour de  France , the sport’s
most-prestigious event, each year from 1999 to 2005 after
surviving testicular cancer that had spread to his brain and
lungs.  “I am gratified to learn that the U.S. Attorney’s Office
is closing its investigation,” Armstrong said in an e-mailed
statement from his attorney  Mark Fabiani . “It is the right
decision and I commend them for reaching it. I look forward to
continuing my life as a father, a competitor, and an advocate in
the fight against cancer without this distraction.”  Armstrong ‘Secrets’  Doping accusations against Armstrong began shortly after
his first Tour victory, including in a French book, “L.A.
Confidential -- The Secrets of Lance Armstrong.” In 2010,  Floyd Landis , who was stripped of his 2006 Tour title after a positive
drug test, accused Armstrong and other former teammates of using
illegal substances.  Another former teammate,  Tyler Hamilton , who handed back
his 2004 Olympic cycling gold medal after his own doping
admission, told CBS’s “60 Minutes” last year that Armstrong
used endurance-boosting erythropoietin, or EPO, during the Tour
in 1999 and to prepare for the Tour in 2000 and 2001. He also
said he saw Armstrong transfuse blood during the 2000 race. “60
Minutes” reported that Hamilton said the same thing to
investigators under oath.  Armstrong said at the time that Hamilton “duped” the
program and was seeking to make money from a book he was
writing.  ‘Clean Sport’  U.S. Anti-Doping Agency Chief Executive Officer Travis T. Tygart said his organization, the official anti-doping agency
for Olympic sports in the U.S., will continue its investigation.  “Unlike the U.S. Attorney, USADA’s job is to protect clean
sport rather than enforce specific criminal laws,” Tygart said
in an e-mailed statement. “Our investigation into doping in the
sport of cycling is continuing and we look forward to obtaining
the information developed during the federal investigation.”  Armstrong was diagnosed with cancer in October 1996. He
underwent chemotherapy and returned to professional cycling two
years later. In 1999 he won the first of his record seven
consecutive Tour de France titles.  His team, owned and managed by Tailwind Sports, was
sponsored by the Postal Service, which provided about $8 million
a year in financial support and covered about 60 percent of its
expenses.  The Postal Service ended its sponsorship in 2004 and
Discovery Communications Inc. was a sponsor until 2007. The team
announced that year that it was shutting down as cycling reeled
from a spate of doping scandals. Armstrong’s seventh Tour win
with the team was in 2005.  Armstrong has endorsements including  Anheuser-Busch InBev
NV (ABI) ’s Michelob brand,  Nike Inc. (NKE) ,  Nissan Motor Co. (NSANY) , Trek Bicycle
Corp. and  RadioShack Corp. (RSH) , which sponsors the racing team he
formed in 2009, according to his website.  His Austin, Texas-based Livestrong charity has raised more
than $325 million, according to its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  