-- Oil Rises From Near Six-Week Low Before Jobs Report; Brent Premium Widens
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-02-03T12:40:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/crude-trades-near-six-week-low-before-jobs-report-brent-premium-widens.html
Oil headed for a weekly decline
before a report that may show U.S. employers hired fewer workers
last month than in December.  Brent crude ’s premium to the New
York price is set for the largest weekly gain in a month.  Futures traded near a six-week low after dropping a fifth
day yesterday, the longest losing streak since August. The U.S.
added 140,000 jobs in January after gaining 200,000 in December,
according to a Bloomberg News survey of economists before a
 Labor Department report  today. London-traded Brent’s  premium  to
West Texas Intermediate crude, the U.S. benchmark, widened 30
percent this week to the most since Nov. 12.  “Payroll numbers will dominate macro-driven trading
today,” said  Andrey Kryuchenkov , an analyst at VTB Capital in
London, who predicts prices may decline further. “Global demand
growth is slowing this year, while developed nations will see
contracting consumption.”  Crude for March delivery was at $96.28 a barrel, down 8
cents, in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
at 12:36 p.m. London time. The contract fell 1.3 percent to
$96.36 yesterday, the lowest settlement since Dec. 19. Prices
are down 3.3 percent this week, the most since the five days
ended Dec. 16.  Brent oil for March settlement climbed as much as 0.5
percent to $112.64 a barrel on the ICE Futures Europe exchange.
It gained 0.5 percent yesterday and is up 0.7 percent this week.
The European benchmark contract’s premium to WTI increased to
$16.30, the widest since Nov. 11.  Cushing Supplies  West Texas futures fell this week on signs of surging
stockpiles at the  Cushing (DOESCROK) , Oklahoma, delivery point for the New
York contract as output increased in  Canada  and  North Dakota .
Inventories at Cushing climbed by 1.48 million barrels to 30.1
million in the week ended Jan. 27, the highest level since Dec.
16, according to U.S. Energy Department released Feb. 1.  The supply increase has pushed the March contract to a
discount of $2.61 a barrel to December futures. This market
situation, known as a contango, means later deliveries are more
expensive than prompt supplies. As recently as Jan. 3, the
nearer-term contract was at a premium of $1.85.  As stockpiles at Cushing grew 6.5 percent in the past two
weeks, WTI’s discount to Brent crude, the European benchmark,
widened to $15.71 a barrel Feb. 2 from $9.90 on Jan. 18 on the
ICE Futures Europe exchange in  London .  The increase in the spread is driven by financial investors
moving from WTI to Brent, according to analysts at JBC Energy
GmbH. Volumes in the ICE Brent contract have surged 30.6 percent
in the past year, compared with a 4.3 percent increase in WTI
trades on Nymex, Vienna-based JBC said in a note today.  Demand Driven  “Investors will be watching the release of the jobs data,
which is a key leading indicator for economic activity and
therefore energy demand,” said  Michael McCarthy , chief market
strategist at CMC Markets Asia Pacific Pty in Sydney. “Concerns
about demand has led to some pretty heavy selling in West Texas.
Brent has held its ground, so we have seen that spread widen.”  U.S. gasoline  consumption  decreased to 7.97 million barrels
a day, the lowest since September 2001, according to the Energy
Department data. Stockpiles of the fuel increased 3.02 million
barrels last week, the report showed.  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries will
increase shipments this month on rising winter demand in the
northern hemisphere, according to tanker-tracker Oil Movements.  OPEC will ship 23.52 million barrels a day in the four
weeks to Feb. 18, 1.1 percent more than the 23.26 million
barrels in the period to Jan. 21, the Halifax, England-based
researcher said yesterday in an e-mailed report. The figures
exclude Angola and  Ecuador .  SK Innovation Co.,  South Korea ’s largest refiner, is
seeking alternative supplies to feed its refineries because it
anticipates government sanctions against trading with  Iran  may
be extended to crude oil imports. The Seoul-based company may
increase crude purchases on the  spot market  or shift to other
suppliers, Jo Eun Hee, the head of SK’s energy planning unit,
told investors in a conference call from  Seoul  today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net 
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  