-- CTC Rises to 3-Month High on Economy to Boost Advertising
-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2012-02-03T21:26:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/ctc-rises-to-3-month-high-on-economy-to-boost-advertising-1-.html
CTC Media Inc. (CTCM) , owner of  Russia ’s
fourth-largest television channel, climbed to a three-month high
in New York on speculation advertising revenue will rise as the
economy expands.  The company gained 3.5 percent to $11.10 in New York today,
its highest close since Nov. 7, and was the third-biggest gainer
on the  Bloomberg Russia-US 14 Index  of Russian companies traded
in the U.S. this week, adding 5.5 percent.  The world’s largest energy exporting economy grew faster
than economists predicted last year, expanding  4.3 percent ,
Russia’s Federal Statistics Service said on Jan. 31. Officials
may revise the figure to as much as 4.5 percent or more, Deputy
Economy Minister  Andrei Klepach  said this week. Urals crude,
Russia’s main export blend, averaged $109 a barrel in 2011, 40
percent more than $78 in the previous year.  The better growth number “signals that prices for
 television advertising  may increase in the second quarter,”
said Anastasia Obukhova, an analyst in Moscow at VTB Capital,
the investment banking arm of Russia’s second-largest bank.
Advertising is the main source of revenue for CTC Media, said
Obukhova, who rates the stock a “buy” with a target price of
$24 per share.  Russia’s gross domestic product is expected to rise 3.5
percent this year and 3.7 percent in 2013, according to the
median estimates of 17 economists in a Bloomberg survey. The
prospect for continued expansion “spells a positive outlook for
advertising revenue,” said Konstantin Chernyshev, head of
research at brokerage UralSib Financial Corp. in Moscow.  Chernyshev  rates  CTC Media a “buy” with a target price at
$16 per share, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in  New York  at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 Eobrien6@bloomberg.net  