-- Cuba Denies Exit Permit to Pro-Democracy Blogger Sanchez Invited by Brazil
-- B y   J o s h u a   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-02-03T19:43:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/cuba-denies-exit-permit-to-pro-democracy-blogger-sanchez-invited-by-brazil.html
Cuba’s best-known pro-democracy
blogger said she was denied permission to leave her country
after  Brazil  granted her a visa ahead of President Dilma Rousseff’s state visit to the communist island last week.  “There’s no surprise,” Yoani Sanchez said in a posting on
her Twitter account today. “They again deny me permission to
leave. It’s the 19th time they violate my right to enter and
leave my country.”  Sanchez, a critic of  Raul Castro ’s government on her
Generation Y blog, requested permission to travel to Brazil next
month so she could attend the screening of a documentary in
which she appears. While she’s been barred from leaving Cuba for
the past four years, expectations she might be allowed to exit
this time increased after Brazil granted her a visa on the eve
of Rousseff’s visit this week.  After Rousseff failed to meet with Sanchez and other
activists during the three-day trade mission to  Havana , the
blogger complained on Twitter that the Brazilian president came
to Cuba “with her wallet open and her eyes shut.”  Rousseff, who was inspired by Cuba’s revolution to take up
arms against Brazil’s military dictatorship in the 1960s, said
she would not get involved in what is an internal Cuban matter.  “Brazil gave the visa to the blogger,” she told reporters
in Havana. “The rest is not a matter for the Brazilian
government.”  Brazil’s Foreign Ministry declined to comment on Cuba’s
decision when contacted by Bloomberg News.  While blocked from traveling abroad, Sanchez openly
criticizes Castro’s government online, and has emerged as a
leader among a group of young dissidents who describe the daily
travails life in Cuba through difficult-to-access social media.
She was invited to  Spain  after winning the Ortega y Gasset
journalism prize in 2008. Many of her chronicles are published
by newspapers throughout  Latin America .  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  