-- Danish Banks Drop as Moody’s Faults Aid Bill: Copenhagen Mover
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 2012-02-03T08:52:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/danish-banks-drop-as-moody-s-faults-aid-bill-copenhagen-mover.html
Danish banks dropped in Copenhagen
trading after Moody’s Investors Service said a merger between
two troubled lenders revealed weaknesses in the government’s
consolidation bill.  The sub-index of the 36 lenders in the all-share  KAX index 
slipped 0.6 percent at 9:37 a.m. while the overall gage
increased 0.4 percent.  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  (DANSKE),  Jyske Bank (JYSK)  A/S and
 Sydbank A/S (SYDB) , the country’s three biggest, all declined at least
1 percent.  Danish banks are struggling to recover from the fallout of
a burst property bubble and a faltering domestic economy. Bad
real estate and farming loans led to three bank failures last
year, two of which pushed losses on to senior creditors and
exacerbated a funding squeeze. Moody’s said a merger between
 Vestjysk (VJBA)  Bank A/S and  Aarhus Lokalbank A/S (AARHUS)  showed that no
“stronger merger partner” was willing to take over the banks,
a model the government’s consolidation bill had targeted.  “The merger highlights the challenges that Danish banks
face with regards to their asset quality, specifically in
agriculture and real estate lending, which is credit negative,”
the rating company said in an e-mailed statement late yesterday.
Neither of the merging banks is rated by Moody’s.  Denmark’s banking crisis is getting worse, threatening to
trigger more failures, as loans to farms and small businesses
sour and the  property market  fails to recover, Ulrik Noedgaard,
director general of the Financial Supervisory Authority, said in
an interview this week. Banks at risk of being declared
insolvent represent about 3 percent of Denmark’s financial
industry, he said.  Bigger Writedowns  Lemvig-based  Vestjysk (VJBA) , which the FSA told in December to
double its writedowns, said Jan. 25 it will merge with Aarhus
Lokalbank, allowing the two to extend state guarantees on their
debt. Vestjysk plunged 73 percent last year, while Aarhus
Lokalbank plummeted 86 percent, after posting losses.  Jyske Bank (JYSK) , based in Silkeborg, declined as much as 2.1
kroner, or 1.2 percent, before trading at 176.20 at 9:49 a.m.
local time. Copenhagen-based Danske fell as much as 1 percent
before trading down less than 0.1 percent. Sydbank, based in
Aabenraa, lost as much as 1.1 percent before trading 0.9 percent
lower.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  