-- Dish Asks Regulators to Reject AT&T Call for Rapid Network Build
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2012-02-03T20:01:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/dish-asks-regulators-to-reject-at-t-call-for-rapid-network-build.html
Dish Network Corp. (DISH)  asked U.S.
regulators to reject  AT&T Inc. (T) ’s call to require the rapid
construction of a wireless phone network on airwaves that Dish
seeks to acquire.  Dish, the second-largest U.S. satellite-television
provider, plans a nationwide high-speed network on spectrum
acquired from DBSD North America Inc. and TerreStar Networks
Inc. The deal needs clearance from the Federal Communications
Commission.  AT&T in a Jan. 26 filing asked the FCC to require a fast-
track buildout by Englewood, Colorado-based Dish, saying
airwaves must be put to use promptly to cope with rising demand
from wireless devices such as smartphones and tablet computers.
Dallas-based AT&T, the second-largest U.S. wireless carrier,
proposed a requirement of network coverage for 100 million
people within 33 months.  “The overly aggressive and unrealistic schedule AT&T
advocates would likely set Dish up for failure or force Dish
into unfavorable business arrangements” with large carriers,
Jeffrey Blum, Dish senior vice president, said in a filing
posted today on the FCC website.  Analysts, including Stifel Nicolaus & Co.’s  Christopher King , have said that Dish may be an acquisition target for AT&T,
which is under pressure to add capacity to accommodate network
traffic growth and keep up with  Verizon Wireless . In December,
AT&T abandoned its $39 billion acquisition of T-Mobile USA Inc.
in the face of regulators’ opposition, withdrawing from a deal
that would have given it more airwaves.  Dish should be allowed to wait for equipment that meets an
advanced standard, and building now would “waste precious
resources that are better spent developing a next-generation
network,” Blum wrote in the filing dated yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  