-- MDM Bank Considers Bank Deals in Russia’s Regions, Chairman Says
-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 2012-02-03T15:35:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/mdm-bank-considers-bank-deals-in-russia-s-regions-chairman-says.html
MDM Bank (MDMB) , Russia’s second-largest
non-state lender, is considering acquiring banks in the region
as its loan growth lags the industry, Chairman Oleg Vyugin said.  “The merger trend, which started in the crisis, is
continuing,” Vyugin said in an interview at the Troika Dialog
investment conference today in Moscow. “We are looking for
specific regions to expand our presence and the best option is
to buy small banks which own 20 to 30 branches.”  Vyugin said the Moscow-based bank would consider lenders
priced at “no more” than one times book value. Russian banks
were bought before the financial crisis in 2008 at three to four
times book value. Barclays Plc bought Expobank,  Russia ’s third-
biggest bank, at about four times book value in March that year.  MDM’s loan book growth has been “flat” this year,
compared with the industrywide trend of 15 percent to 20
percent, Vyugin said.  “Shareholders don’t want to take a big risk with the
capital,” Vyugin said. “They want to keep the business more
modest to avoid additional risks.” Shareholders are now
considering whether to change their policy to enable the bank to
“grow cautiously,” he said.  Vyugin, a former central banker and deputy finance
minister, said that were Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  to face a
runoff in his bid to return to the presidency it would make the
election “more legitimate” and “a signal that the alternative
point of view in society is being heard.”  Putin is running for a third term as Russia’s president in
elections scheduled for March 4, after having to step down in
2008 because of  term limits . Opposition groups are preparing for
to protest in Moscow tomorrow against the results of a Dec. 4
parliamentary poll, where Putin’s United Russia party won a
reduced majority amid allegations of vote rigging. The
government has said the vote was fair.  -- Editors: Jon Menon, Steve Bailey  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  