-- Dollar Weakens Versus Euro on Speculation U.S. Payrolls Climbed Last Month
-- B y   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-02-03T12:37:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/dollar-weakens-versus-euro-on-speculation-u-s-payrolls-climbed-last-month.html
The dollar weakened against the euro
before a report economists said will show U.S. employers
increased payrolls last month, damping demand for the perceived
safety of the currency.  The euro’s advance trimmed its first weekly decline in
three, after  Greece  and its creditors struggled to reach an
agreement on a deal to reduce the nation’s debt. Japan’s
currency traded within one yen of a postwar high versus the
dollar amid speculation the country will act to weaken it.
Canada’s dollar fell against the greenback after a jobs report
showed the  unemployment rate  unexpectedly increased.  U.S. “payrolls will be the big event of the day,” said
Jane Foley, a senior currency strategist at Rabobank
International in  London . “If we get stronger data it would
improve risk appetite, which is dollar negative, but at the same
time it would push back expectations of further quantitative
easing, which is dollar positive.”  The dollar depreciated 0.1 percent against the euro to
$1.3163 at 7:35 a.m. New York time, paring its gain for the week
to 0.4 percent. The common currency was 0.2 percent stronger at
100.40 yen, trimming its weekly drop to 1 percent.  The yen traded at 76.27 per dollar. It strengthened to
76.03 two days ago, approaching the post-World War II record of
75.35 set on Oct. 31.  Payrolls Boost  U.S. employers boosted payrolls by 140,000 in January after
an increase of 200,000 a month earlier, according to the median
estimate of 89 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.
Unemployment probably stayed at 8.5 percent last month from
December, a separate survey showed.  “An increase of 100,000 to 200,000 should be beneficial
for risk and see the dollar underperform,” said  Jeremy Stretch ,
head of currency strategy at Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce
in London.  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six U.S.
trading partners, fell almost 0.1 percent to 78.934.  Private payrolls probably rose by 160,000 in January, after
a 212,000 gain the prior month, a separate survey showed. That
would be the biggest back-to-back increase since March-April.  The euro headed for a weekly decline against all its major
peers with Greece yet to conclude a deal on a second
international bailout. The rescue plan, which European officials
and creditors say may be wrapped up in coming days, includes a
loss of more than 70 percent for debt investors in a voluntary
exchange and loans likely to exceed the 130 billion euros now on
the table.  Euro Forecasts  Finance ministers from the four euro-area countries with
AAA grades from all three major ratings companies --  Germany ,
 Finland , Luxembourg and the Netherlands -- will meet in Berlin
today, a German Finance Ministry spokesman said yesterday. The
ministers won’t brief reporters after the meeting, according to
the spokesman, speaking on condition of anonymity.  “The continuing uncertainty in Greece has contributed to a
slightly weaker euro this week,” said Michael Derks, chief
strategist at broker FXPro Financial Services Ltd. in London.  The euro was poised for a weekly drop as the implied
volatility of three-month options of Group of Seven currencies
rose for the first week in five. The measure was at 10.28
percent from 10.22 percent on Jan. 27, according to the JPMorgan
G7  Volatility Index . An increase makes investments in currencies
with higher lending rates less attractive because the risk in
such trades is that market moves will erase profits.  Morgan Stanley cut its fourth-quarter 2012 forecast for the
euro to $1.15 from a previous projection of $1.20, according to
a research note published yesterday, saying efforts to control
government budgets will push the region into a recession.  Intervention Risk  Japan ’s Finance Minister  Jun Azumi  said today he will take
decisive steps against one-sided moves in the yen if needed. The
currency’s level doesn’t reflect economic fundamentals, and
falling U.S. interest rates are increasing speculative yen
buying, he told reporters in  Tokyo . Japan sold the yen on Oct.
31 on concern its advance to a record would hurt exporters.  “Jawboning by the Japanese authorities has increased
significantly over the past week,” said  Lee Hardman , a currency
strategist in London at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. “The
near-term risk of direct intervention is now high.”  The yen has gained 5.9 percent over the past six months,
the second-best performance among the 10 developed-nation
currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.
The dollar rose 6.4 percent and the euro dropped 2.7 percent.  Canadian Dollar  The Canadian currency depreciated 0.3 percent to C$1.0019
per  U.S. dollar . One Canadian dollar buys 99.81 U.S. cents.  The jobless rate rose to 7.6 percent from 7.5 percent as
employment increased by 2,300 last month, Statistics  Canada  said
today. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News had forecast
unemployment to stay at 7.5 percent and 22,000 jobs to be added.  China ’s yuan snapped a four-day gain as expansion in its
non-manufacturing industries slowed. A purchasing managers’
index declined to 52.9 last month from 56 in December, the
National Bureau of Statistics and China Federation of Logistics
and Purchasing said in a statement today in Beijing. A reading
above 50 indicates growth.  The yuan was little changed from yesterday at 6.3029 per
dollar, according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  