-- Dollar Appreciates as U.S. Adds More Jobs, Damping Fed’s Easing Outlook
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-02-03T22:17:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/dollar-appreciates-as-u-s-adds-more-jobs-damping-fed-s-easing-outlook.html
The dollar gained, recovering from an
almost postwar low against the yen, after U.S. employers added
more jobs than forecast, damping speculation the Federal Reserve
will add another round of asset purchases to spur growth.  The Japanese currency dropped, after trading within one yen
of its post-World War II high versus the dollar, reducing
speculation the nation will intervene in the  currency market  to
stem its appreciation. The Fed’s last two debt-purchase
programs, known as quantitative easing, boosted riskier assets
as investors shunned low yields in the U.S. Higher yielding
currencies led by South Africa’s rand and Mexico’s peso rose as
stocks and commodities gained.  “It does diminish the possibility for further easing,”
said  Vassili Serebriakov , a currency strategist at  Wells Fargo &
Co . in New York. “Higher Treasury yields helped the dollar
against the yen and euro, while stronger equities hurt the
dollar against commodity and emerging currencies.”  The dollar rose 0.5 percent to 76.60 yen at 5 p.m. in New
York. It touched 76.05 yesterday, close to a record low of 75.35
reached Oct. 31. The dollar fell 0.1 percent to $1.3158 per euro
after earlier strengthening to $1.3066. The euro rose 0.6
percent 100.79 yen.  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners, was little changed at 78.943.  The rand added 1.6 percent to 7.5218 per dollar, extending
its gain this week to 3.1 percent. The peso rallied 1.1 percent
to 12.6596 against the greenback. The U.S. is Mexico’s largest
trading partner.  Nonfarm Payrolls  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  rose 1.5 percent and the
Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of raw materials gained 1.1
percent.  Nonfarm payrolls rose by 243,000, after a revised 203,000
gain in December, the Labor Department reported today in
Washington. The median of 89 economists in a Bloomberg Survey
had forecast an addition of 140,000. The unemployment rate fell
to 8.3 percent.  At a meeting last month, the  Federal Reserve  pledged to
keep its  interest rate  near zero until late 2014. The
accommodative policy tends to drive investors away from the
dollar as they seek higher yields elsewhere.  Three Fed officials said rates should be increased in 2012,
three said 2013, five said 2014, four said 2015 and two said
2016.  Quantitative Easing  The central bank purchased $2.3 trillion of Treasury and
mortgage-related bonds in two rounds of quantitative easing that
ended in June. It sold $8.61 billion of securities due from May
to November today as part of a program to replace $400 billion
of shorter-maturity Treasuries in its holdings with longer-term
debt to cap borrowing costs.  Treasuries fell today, pushing 10-year note  yields  up as
much as 13 basis points to 1.954 percent, the biggest intraday
jump since Nov. 10.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said yesterday the economy has
shown “signs of improvement” while remaining vulnerable to
shocks, and he called on lawmakers to reduce the long-term U.S.
budget deficit.  “Fortunately, over the past few months, indicators of
spending, production, and job-market activity have shown some
signs of improvement,” Bernanke said in testimony to the House
Budget Committee in  Washington . “The outlook remains uncertain,
however, and close monitoring of economic developments will
remain necessary.”  Quickening Pace  Data this year have signaled the  U.S. economy  is recovering
at a quickening pace. Manufacturing grew in January at the
fastest pace in seven months, the Institute for Supply
Management reported Feb. 1. Consumer confidence rose last month
to the highest level in almost a year, according to a Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan index published Jan. 27.  Japan ’s Finance Minister  Jun Azumi  has said he will take
decisive steps against one-sided moves in the yen if needed. The
currency’s level doesn’t reflect economic fundamentals, and
falling U.S. interest rates are increasing speculative yen
buying, he told reporters in  Tokyo . Japan sold the yen on Oct.
31 on concern its advance to a record would hurt exporters.  “The pressure to intervene in the yen is receding with
each rally in dollar-yen,” said  Kathy Lien , director of
currency research at the online trading firm GFT Forex in  New
York .  ECB, Greece  The yen has gained 5.1 percent over the past six months,
the third-best performance among the 10 developed-nation
currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.
The dollar rose 6.2 percent and the Australian dollar gained 5.8
percent. The euro dropped 3 percent.  The euro erased losses after the  European Central Bank  was
said to be considering using its bond holdings to bolster
 Greece ’s next rescue program and support efforts to contain the
sovereign-debt crisis.  The 17-nation shared currency headed for a weekly decline
against 15 of its 16 most-traded peers as finance ministers from
the euro region’s top-rated countries, meeting in Berlin, didn’t
discuss a higher public sector contribution for Greece,
reflecting reluctance to place bigger burdens on their
taxpayers.  “The continuing uncertainty in Greece has contributed to a
slightly weaker euro this week,” said Michael Derks, chief
strategist at broker FXPro Financial Services Ltd. in  London .  Loonie Rises  Morgan Stanley cut its fourth-quarter 2012 forecast for the
euro to $1.15 from a previous projection of $1.20, according to
a research note published yesterday, saying efforts to control
government budgets will push the region into a recession.  The Canadian currency appreciated even after the nation’s
 unemployment rate  increased. The loonie rose 0.6 percent to
99.34 Canadian cents per  U.S. dollar  after touching 99.28 cents,
the strongest since Oct. 31.  The nation’s jobless rate rose to 7.6 percent from 7.5
percent as employment increased by 2,300 last month, Statistics
Canada said today. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News had
forecast unemployment to stay at 7.5 percent and 22,000 jobs to
be added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  