-- The Problem That the Buffett Rule Won’t Fix: Michael Kinsley
-- B y   M i c h a e l   K i n s l e y
-- 2012-02-03T00:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/the-problem-that-the-buffett-rule-won-t-fix-commentary-by-michael-kinsley.html
As everybody knows by now, Warren Buffett -- class traitor -- pays a smaller share of his income
in taxes than does his secretary,  Debbie Bosanek . In his  State
of the Union address  last month, President  Barack Obama  proposed
the “Buffett Rule” to rectify this.  The rule would be a phased-in requirement that all
taxpayers making more than $1 million a year pay federal taxes
of at least 30 percent of their adjusted gross incomes. If your
taxes worked out to be less than that, you would owe  Uncle Sam 
the difference.  Who could object? Well, Newt Gingrich -- class clown --
called the idea “stupid.” And  Mitt Romney  -- class president --
said he doesn’t believe in raising taxes on anybody under any
circumstances: a nice, nuanced view, which at least saves us the
trouble of arguing about it. It’s really impossible to defend a
system where people at the bottom pay 30 percent or 35 percent
(including Social Security and Medicare taxes) while people at
the top who’ve arranged their affairs correctly -- not all that
hard -- pay 15 percent, as Romney did last year. Nevertheless,
there are problems with the Buffett Rule, which would become law
under  a bill introduced  Wednesday in Congress.  First, it will affect so few people that it will have no
measurable effect on  income distribution . Citizens for Tax
Justice, a liberal tax reform group,  figures that  the Buffett
Rule would affect about 0.08 percent of taxpayers, or one out of
every 1,250. People will be tempted to think that by enacting
the Buffett Rule, we will have solved the problem of growing
income inequality, when we won’t really have even touched it.  The Top Half  What about people making $500,000? Don’t they need to kick
in something, too? The median family income in this country is
about $50,000. That means if two people in your family are
working and they bring in a total of more than $50,000, you’re
in the top half. Any redistribution through the tax system for
the purpose of reducing inequality will increase your taxes, not
reduce them.  Democratic politicians can be eloquent about the struggling
middle class. But the truth is that the middle class is where a
big chunk of the money is, and there is no way that the middle
class can redistribute money from itself to itself. In this
country, all people, rich and poor, have the right to think of
themselves as middle class. But when representatives of the
middle class sit down to divvy up the spoils of redistribution,
they will be disappointed.  Actually, in the past few months, the invisible line that
divides the middle class from the rich in the public’s
imagination has moved dramatically upward. It used to be
$250,000. That was the amount of income below which Obama
promised no tax increase. Now, thanks to the publicity around
the Buffett Rule, it’s a cool million.  These days it takes so much energy and so many chits to
enact any major piece of legislation that it’s hard to believe
Congress will pass two  tax reform  laws in the same year.
Enacting the Buffett Rule will absolve members of any concern
about the current tax system, and prevent more wide-ranging
reform. Meanwhile, for those who are (or might be) affected by
the Buffett Rule, it will be an added complication. People will
have to compute their taxes twice: once under the regular rules
and again under the Buffett Rule -- and then they will have to
pay the higher of the two.  The Buffett Rule would just paper over mistakes in our tax
system that ought to be fixed. Let’s be clear: The reason that
many millionaires pay so little income tax is that Republicans
in the White House and the Congress wanted it that way. The last
major tax reform, in 1986, equalized the  tax rate  on all forms
of income: working wages,  capital gains  and dividends. This had
the support of President  Ronald Reagan  and most Republican
members of Congress.  Real Reform  Republicans have been campaigning on Reagan’s success
(although it wasn’t really his) ever since, while also
undermining the reform’s most important accomplishment. As part
of  George W. Bush ’s tax cut of 2003, the tax rate on dividends
and most capital gains was capped at 15 percent. (Immediately
after the 1986 reform, it was 35 percent.) Rather than creating
a whole new set of rules for  about 100,000  taxpayers, that cap
should be abolished. Income is income. That would be real
reform.  The biggest challenge for whoever is president the next
four years will be convincing Americans that we must pay more
taxes. Every realistic and honest person concedes that a tax
increase will be necessary to get us out of the hole we’ve dug.
(Yes, yes, spending must be reined in too, and yes, yes, we
don’t need to start until the recession is indubitably over.)
But it can’t just be a tax on  Warren Buffett  and his peers. It
will have to be a tax on you. The Buffett Rule makes that a
harder sell.  A tax on so few people also undermines the message that
taxes are not a reflection of animosity. President Obama doesn’t
hate the rich. This isn’t class war. Nobody thinks that the rich
are inherently evil, or that anyone who makes it in America must
be a crook. Obama was careful to say all this in his State of
the Union. But he segued smoothly from his discussion of
financial improprieties to his discussion of the Buffett Rule,
making it sound more like a punishment for misbehavior than he
may have intended.  ( Michael Kinsley  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Michael Kinsley at  mkinsley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor of this article:
Michael Newman at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 