-- ECB Said to Consider Ways to Use Its Bond Holdings to Bolster Greek Rescue
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w ,   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2012-02-04T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/ecb-said-to-consider-ways-to-use-its-bond-holdings-to-bolster-greek-rescue.html
The  European Central Bank  is
considering using its bond holdings to bolster Greece’s next
rescue program and support efforts to contain the sovereign debt
crisis, three euro-region officials said.  Under one plan, the ECB could sell its Greek bonds to the
European Financial Stability Facility at the price it paid for
them rather than accept a loss along with private creditors, two
of the people said. The EFSF is against that proposal because it
may stretch its capacity, the officials said. Another plan is
for euro-area central banks to give up profits or take losses on
Greek bonds in their investment portfolios. Several options are
under informal consideration and none have gained traction so
far, two of the officials said. Spokespeople for the ECB and the
EFSF declined to comment.  The central bank’s discussions have taken place as  Greece ,
its private creditors and international authorities struggle to
assemble a new aid package big enough to contain the crisis. The
European Union is under pressure to reach a deal with Greece and
its creditors soon because of a 14.5 billion-euro ($19 billion)
Greek bond payment due March 20.  In October, the EU, Greece and private creditors agreed to
a deal that includes a loss of more than 70 percent for
bondholders in a voluntary debt exchange and 130 billion euros
in official loans. That deal, which also involves the
 International Monetary Fund , requires Greece’s debt burden to
fall to 120 percent of gross domestic product by 2020.  ECB Contribution  As Greece’s economic outlook has worsened, public creditors
have pressed for further concessions to meet this target,
prompting markets to look to the ECB as a possible source of
additional contributions.  Selling the ECB’s Greek bonds to the EFSF, which is
directly backed by euro-area governments, would allow those
assets to be used in the writedown without compromising the
central bank’s independence.  “It would be a much more ideal situation than the ECB
actually taking a loss,” said Peter De Keyzer, chief economist
at Fortis Bank in Brussels. “All the right incentives stay in
place. It doesn’t affect the ECB’s potential willingness to buy
debt in the future.”  The ECB has purchased 219 billion euros of debt-strapped
nations’ bonds since May 2010. Between 36 billion euros and 55
billion euros are invested in Greek sovereign debt, according to
estimates by  Barclays Capital  and UBS AG.  Investment Portfolios  The ECB’s talks have also looked at having euro-area
central banks give up profits or take losses on Greek bonds in
their investment portfolios, which are separate from the bonds
the ECB buys in its asset-purchase program, one official said.
The Financial Times Deutschland yesterday reported the ECB is
looking at this option.  Downsides are that it might make only a limited amount of
money available and could also have a disproportionately big
impact on the Greek central bank, the person said.  The EFSF-linked plan faces resistance from the fund and its
member countries because of concerns about the rescue facility’s
capacity, two people said. The 440 billion-euro EFSF has already
committed to provide 44 billion euros for Portugal and Ireland.
The fund’s ability to respond to further crises is also limited
by expectations of its contribution to a second rescue package
for Greece.  The euro region still hasn’t decided whether the EFSF and
its successor, the 500 billion-euro European Stability Mechanism,
must share the same aid ceiling or run in parallel to allow more
borrowing room. Stacking the two funds is on the agenda for a
March summit of EU leaders.  No matter what method is used, the ECB needs to avoid
incurring a net loss, said  Marco Valli , chief euro-area
economist at UniCredit Bank AG in Milan. If the EFSF bought
bonds from the ECB at the central bank’s purchase price, “at
the end of the day, the loss would move from the ECB to
governments,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  