-- Egyptian Police Fire Teargas at Cairo Protests After Deadly Soccer Clash
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2012-02-03T13:13:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/egyptian-police-fire-teargas-at-cairo-protests-after-deadly-soccer-clash.html
Egyptian police used tear gas to
disperse protesters in Cairo and two people were reported killed
in Suez as unrest persisted following violence at a soccer match
this week that left more than 70 dead.  Crowds tried to storm police headquarters in both cities,
the state-run Middle East  News Agency  reported. Demonstrators
blame police for failing to prevent the violence that followed a
soccer match on Feb. 1 in the coastal city of Port Said.  Two people died the Suez clashes, state television said
today. Television footage showed protesters, many of them
wearing masks for protection from tear gas, waving flags and
throwing rocks at the Interior Ministry in downtown Cairo, where
police responded by firing tear gas. One man died during the
fighting in Cairo from wounds caused by birdshot fired at close
range, the  Associated Press  said.  This week’s violence was the worst since President  Hosni Mubarak  was overthrown in a popular revolt a year ago, and the
deadliest in the history of Egyptian soccer. The riots
underlined the breakdown of security after the political
upheavals of the past year, which has seen repeated clashes
between security forces and protesters demanding that the ruling
generals hand over power to civilians.  Members of the newly elected parliament yesterday demanded
the government step down, and criticized the military council.
Prime Minister Kamal el-Ganzouri told lawmakers that the Port
Said security chief had been suspended and the head and board of
the football association fired.  The unrest sent  Egypt ’s  benchmark stock index  down 2.2
percent yesterday, the most since Dec. 22.  Footage from local television stations after the Feb. 1
game showed crowds rushing onto the field and a fire burning in
the stands as police forces stood by following Al-Masry’s 3-1
home victory against Al-Ahly. Seventy-four people were killed,
the state-run news agency reported, citing the health ministry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  