-- Telenor Seeks Norway’s Help After Cancellation of India Permits
-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e
-- 2012-02-03T18:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/telenor-seeks-norway-s-help-after-cancellation-of-india-permits.html
Telenor ASA (TEL)  has enlisted the help of
the Norwegian government to protect its investment in  India 
following the cancellation of 122 mobile-phone licenses by the
nation’s top court.  Telenor said yesterday it will “fight to protect lawful
investments” in India, adding that the Norwegian government is
working on a solution after the Indian Supreme Court decided on
Feb. 2 to cancel wireless licenses awarded in 2008 and gave the
affected companies four months to shut down operations.  At stake is Telenor’s investment in its Indian unit and the
fate of 36 million customers. The cancellations may prompt fresh
calls for Chief Executive Officer Jon Fredrik Baksaas to quit
India after the Scandinavian company announced yesterday that it
will include a 4.2 billion kroner ($721 million) writedown in
its fourth-quarter earnings on Feb. 8 related to the Indian
licenses and goodwill.  The loss of permits may force Telenor to spend more to win
them back, said Saeed Baradar, a telecommunications sales
specialist at  Societe Generale  in  London . “If Telenor commits
to India and they decide to stay there long term, then there
isn’t a bottom to where the stock will go,” he said.  Telenor shares fell as much as 2.2 percent to 91.65 kroner
on news of the writedown in Oslo yesterday.  Credit Watch  Russian billionaire Vladimir Evtushenkov’s Indian unit,
whose licenses are also due for cancellation, was placed on
watch by credit assessor Crisil Ltd. yesterday, which said 80
percent of the operator’s revenue will be affected. All but one
of the company’s licenses were canceled in the court’s ruling.  Sistema Shyam Teleservices Ltd. will contest the court
order, according to a statement yesterday. The carrier has 15
million customers, 3,500 employees and has invested more than
$2.5 billion in India.  The Supreme Court ruling came 14 months after India’s chief
auditor said the sale at “unbelievably low” prices may have
cost the exchequer as much as $31 billion.  The court asked the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India
to recommend the next course of action, which could include an
auction for the permits.  The government will abide by the court’s verdict and
prepare rules for auctioning the airwaves,  Kapil Sibal , minister
of communications and information technology, told reporters in
 New Delhi  on Feb. 2. The ministry will “delink” the spectrum
it provides to carriers from the permits, he said.  Jailed Minister  The Comptroller and Auditor General said in a report
submitted on Nov. 16, 2010, that the cut-price, first-come,
first-served sale four years ago to ineligible bidders was
“arbitrary and lacked transparency.” Jailed former
telecommunications minister  Andimuthu Raja , bureaucrats and
company officials are facing charges that they conspired to
grant permits for personal benefit. All deny any wrongdoing.  The court canceled all permits held by Uninor, the venture
between Telenor and  Unitech Group, (UT)  which owns India’s second-
largest developer, and Etisalat DB Telecom Pvt., a partnership
between Emirates Telecommunications Corp. and DB Group.  It also canceled most permits held by Videocon
Telecommunications, Sistema Shyam and Loop Telecom Ltd.  The order may have broader repercussions as annual profit
at Indian banks may fall as much as 10 percent from losses on
loans to the affected phone companies,  Fitch Ratings  said
yesterday.  State-owned banks such as  State Bank  of India and Punjab
National Bank face “greater risk” from the license
cancellations than private banks, Aashish Agarwal, an analyst at
CLSA India Ltd., wrote in a report yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  