-- Elsenhans Leaves Sunoco Shedding Refineries for Pipelines
-- B y   B r a d l e y   O l s o n   a n d   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 2012-02-03T14:07:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/elsenhans-leaves-sunoco-shedding-refineries-for-pipelines-1-.html
Sunoco Inc. (SUN)  Chief Executive Officer
Lynn Elsenhans is stepping down after spending almost four years
selling or shuttering two-thirds of the 121-year-old refiner’s
assets to focus its business on oil pipelines and fuel
retailing.  The 55-year-old former executive of  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) 
took the helm at Sunoco in 2008, when fuel demand had slumped
the most in 27 years. She fired workers, sold or idled all five
of the company’s refineries and spun off business units that
incurred more than $1.2 billion in losses on her watch.  “Lynn set out to leave behind refining, and that’s
apparently what the Sunoco board blessed,” said Mike Leger,
president of Turner, Mason & Co., a Dallas-based energy
consultant. “What I’m less sure of is what Sunoco has become.”  Chief Financial Officer Brian P. MacDonald, who will
succeed Elsenhans on March 1, said he plans to continue Sunoco’s
transition into fuel storage, pipeline transportation and retail
sales. Sunoco swung to a pretax loss of $660 million in the
fourth quarter of 2011 from a profit of $119 million a year
earlier, the Philadelphia-based company said yesterday.  MacDonald, 46, will also become chairman effective May 1.
Elsenhans and MacDonald declined to be interviewed, according to
Sunoco spokesman Thomas Golembeski.  The stock rose 5.9 percent to $40.50 at 8:41 a.m. today in
 New York  before the start of regular trading. Sunoco rose 12
percent this year before today.  Stock Buyback  Sunoco’s shares declined 43 percent before today since
Elsenhans became CEO in August 2008. Valero Energy Corp., the
largest independent U.S. refiner, slumped 48 percent and Tesoro
Corp. fell 34 percent during the same period.  Sunoco said it will buy back as much as 19.9 percent of the
company’s stock in the next 18 months, increase its quarterly
dividend to 20 cents a share from 15 cents and repurchase as
much as $400 million of debt in the next year.  Losses piled up at Sunoco since 2008 as the difference
between the cost of oil and the selling price of fuel  narrowed 
by 70 percent. During the same time, Elsenhans boosted value for
investors 52 percent through a combination of asset sales,
spinoffs and share buybacks.  When she joined Sunoco after having run global refining
operations for Shell, Elsenhans said she planned to bolster the
refinery business through joint ventures that would help fund
upgrades to the plants so they could process heavier, and
cheaper, grades of crude.  Selloff Begins  She failed to find a partner, and instead sold refineries
in Toledo, Ohio and Tulsa,  Oklahoma . The Tulsa plant was sold
for $65 million to  HollyFrontier Corp (HFC) . in June 2009, a year
before surging onshore crude production in  North Dakota 
depressed U.S. oil prices, expanding profit margins for some
mid-continent refineries.  In September, Elsenhans announced plans to sell or close
Sunoco’s two remaining refineries in Philadelphia and  Marcus
Hook ,  Pennsylvania . She has since idled the plants and said in a
statement yesterday that the company doesn’t anticipate being
able to sell the Marcus Hook plant.  Unable to turn around the refining operations, Elsenhans
focused instead on rewarding shareholders, selling part of
Sunoco’s chemicals business and offering investors shares from a
spinoff of Sunoco’s metallurgical coke business. The coke is
used to make steel. She used some cash to fund acquisitions for
 Sunoco Logistics Partners LP (SXL) , the company’s master limited
partnership through which it manages its pipeline assets.  Sunoco’s Value  Including shares from SunCoke Energy Inc. and growth in
Sunoco Logistics Partners, Elsenhans presided over a 52 percent
increase in the company’s value. Sunoco and its subsidiaries are
worth $8.75 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The so-called logistics business of storage and
transportation has become the fastest-growing segment in the
 energy industry  as companies race to connect pipelines to
onshore oil and natural-gas production that has soared with the
use of improved drilling technology.  The reconstituted Sunoco is poised to join a peer group
that includes Kinder Morgan Inc. and  Oneok Inc. (OKE) , which focus on
pipelines and trade at a premium to refiners,  Paul Sankey , an
analyst with Deutsche Bank AG, said in a note to clients Jan. 9.  “It looks like Elsenhans has done the heavy lifting,”
 Gianna Bern , president of Brookshire Advisory & Research Inc. in
 Chicago , said in a telephone interview yesterday. “It appears
as though the future course of the company is in the higher
margin logistics and retail segment.”  $11.7 Million Salary  Elsenhans received salary and other incentives worth $11.7
million in 2010, the most recent year for which compensation
data is available, according to a March 18 filing with the
Securities and Exchange Commission. As of last spring, Elsenhans
was slated to receive severance and pension benefits totaling
$6.29 million if her job was terminated without cause, and $37.8
million if she sold or merged the company.  Golembeski, the Sunoco spokesman, declined in an e-mail to
discuss Elsenhans’s severance compensation and said details will
be filed with the SEC.  “She’s being treated better going out the door than the
people who have given 20, 30 or 40 years to this company,” said
Jim Savage, president of the union that represents 600 workers
at Sunoco’s Philadelphia refinery. The Pennsylvania plants and
an already closed New Jersey refinery represent job losses and
potential losses of more than 3,000 workers, Savage said.  Elsenhans’s successor, MacDonald, spent more than 13 years
at General Motors Corp. before joining  Dell Inc. (DELL)  in 2002, where
he served as CFO of a unit overseeing financial management. He
joined Sunoco as a senior vice president and CFO in 2009.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bradley Olson in Houston  at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Klump in Houston  at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  