-- Emerging-Market Stock Funds Post Sixth Week of Inflows, Citigroup Says
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2012-02-03T03:46:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/emerging-market-stock-funds-post-sixth-week-of-inflows-citigroup-says.html
Global emerging-market funds reported
a sixth week of inflows as investor confidence in the global
economy strengthened, Citigroup Inc. said.  Funds investing in developing-nation stocks took in $2.6
billion in the week ended Feb. 1, Citigroup analysts led by
 Markus Rosgen , wrote in a report dated today, citing data from
fund researcher EPFR Global. China attracted the most inflows,
according to the report.  “Investors are taking on more risk,” Yue Hin Pong, one of
the Citigroup analysts cited in today’s report, wrote in an e-
mail. “This was encouraged by the improved global macro data
for December and easing credit crunch fears.”  Emerging-market stocks posted their best start to a year
since 2001 after European countries agreed to tighter budget
controls and as policy makers from  Brazil  to the Philippines cut
borrowing costs to spur growth. The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF) 
climbed 11 percent last month, the biggest January increase in
11 years, following a 20 percent drop in 2011.  U.S. manufacturing grew the most since June, the  Institute
for Supply Management  said on Feb. 1 and the U.K.’s factory
gauge reached an eight-month high. India and China on Feb. 1
posted an improvement in output numbers, suggesting the world’s
fastest-growing major economies are withstanding the impact of
 Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis.  Emerging markets will “perform very well” this year as
inflation is no longer a problem,  Adrian Mowat , JPMorgan Chase &
Co.’s Hong Kong-based chief Asian and emerging-market
strategist, said at a press briefing in Manila on Jan. 31.  China Flows  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index lost 0.3 percent to
1,041.32 at 11:43 a.m. Singapore time. Companies in the index of
developing companies trade at 10.4 times estimated earnings,
less than the four-year average of 12, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  China  attracted $247 million in the latest week, according
to Citigroup’s report. The official  purchasing managers’ index 
increased to 50.5 from 50.3 in December, exceeding the median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey for a reading below the 50
level that divides expansion from contraction. A separate gauge
from HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics rose to 48.8. The
data may have been distorted by a weeklong holiday.  The official PMI report suggests manufacturing “has
stabilized somewhat due to supportive fiscal and monetary
policies,” Liu Li-Gang, a Hong Kong-based economist at
Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd., said on the day the
data was released. “Stronger-than-expected PMI also provides
solid evidence that a hard landing for  China’s economy  is very
unlikely.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  