-- Emerging Stocks in Best Winning Streak Since 2010 on U.S. Jobs
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i
-- 2012-02-03T23:02:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/emerging-market-stocks-fall-pare-weekly-gain-on-economy-profit-concern.html
Emerging-market stocks climbed for a
fifth straight week as the U.S. jobless rate slid to the lowest
level in three years, boosting the outlook for the global
economy.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  rose 0.4 percent to
1,048.36 in  New York , bringing its advance this week to 14
percent and capping the longest run of weekly gains since
October 2010.  Brazil ’s Bovespa Index jumped 1 percent today, the
BSE India  Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  added 1 percent and the  Shanghai
Composite Index (SHCOMP)  rose 0.8 percent. The Micex Index gained 1.5
percent in Moscow.  U.S. payrolls increased by 243,000 last month, the most
since April and above the 140,000 median estimate of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. The  unemployment rate  dropped to 8.3
percent, the lowest level since February 2009, bolstering the
fortunes of the world’s largest economy, which is still
recovering from a recession that started in 2008.  “This is the most important piece of economic data because
it goes to the heart of the strength of the world’s consumer of
last resort, the U.S.,”  Neil Shearing , an emerging markets
economist at Capital Economics Ltd., said by phone from  London .
“The health of the labor market is critical” to the ability of
U.S. consumers to keep spending, he said.  Greece  has reached agreement on the basic parameters of a
debt swap with private creditors and is in the final stretch of
talks with European Union and International Monetary Fund
officials on a second financing package for its struggling
economy, said Pantelis Kapsis, government spokesman.  Fund Flows  Talks over a new loan package for the nation are in “the
final phase” and “the main private sector involvement
parameters are ready,” Kapsis said in an interview with Real FM
radio.  Emerging-market stock funds have had their best start to a
year since 2006 in terms of inflows as investors started to
discount a Chinese slowdown and the U.S. recovery gained
traction, according to EPFR Global.  Flows into developing-nation equity funds totaled $3.5
billion in the week ended Feb. 1, a 43-week high, bringing the
total for 2012 to $11.3 billion, according to a report e-mailed
today by the Boston-based research company.  Localiza Rent a Car SA ,  Latin America ’s biggest car-rental
company, gained 2.5 percent in Sao Paulo after reporting that
fourth-quarter profit rose 13 percent to 78.7 million reais ($46
million), beating the median of analyst estimate in a Bloomberg
survey. Oil companies  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  and  OGX Petroleo &
Gas Participacoes SA  advanced as crude gained in New York.  The  extra yield  investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries was unchanged on Feb. 2 at 402 basis
points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  