-- Employment in U.S. Probably Rose, Keeping Jobless Rate Steady
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2012-02-03T05:01:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/employment-in-u-s-probably-rose-in-january.html
Employers probably increased payrolls
in January, a sign companies are gaining confidence the U.S.
expansion will weather  Europe ’s slump, economists said before a
report today.  Employment grew by 140,000 after rising by 200,000 in
December, according to the median forecast of 89 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. The  jobless rate  may have held at an
almost three-year low of 8.5 percent. Another report may show
 service industries  expanded at a faster pace last month.  “The labor market continues to churn out new jobs at a
respectable pace,” said  Chris Rupkey , chief financial economist
at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in  New York . “We aren’t
back to normal yet, but we are on our way.”  More hiring and larger wage gains are needed to ensure that
consumer spending, which accounts for about 70 percent of the
economy, strengthens after growing at the weakest pace of any
post-World War II expansion. Concern that the jobless rate
remains too high is one reason the  Federal Reserve  last week
said it will keep  interest rates  low for a longer period.  The Labor Department’s jobs report is due at 8:30 a.m.
Payroll estimates in the Bloomberg survey ranged from increases
of 95,000 to 225,000.  Transportation Jobs  The estimated gain in January payrolls is smaller than the
prior month’s increase as economists, including Ellen Zentner at
Nomura Securities International Inc. in New York, forecast a
surge in hiring at transportation companies will be unwound. The
Labor Department may have had trouble adjusting the data for
swings in hiring and firing of roughly 40,000 workers
temporarily employed during the holidays by delivery companies
like United Parcel Service Inc. and  FedEx Corp.. (FDX)   Private payrolls are forecast to rise by 160,000 in
January, after a 212,000 gain the prior month, the biggest back-
to-back increase since March-April, according to the survey
median. Manufacturing payrolls are forecast to rise by 13,000
after a 23,000 gain.  Peoria, Illinois-based  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) , the world’s
biggest maker of earthmoving equipment, plans to increase
employment this year as it expands facilities, including in
Victoria,  Texas , and Winston-Salem,  North Carolina , Chief
Financial Officer Edward Rapp said yesterday.  “Those are the things that will lead to employment growth
here,” Rapp said in an interview with Betty Liu on Bloomberg
Television’s “In the Loop.”  Signs in recent months of an improving economy have helped
drive up stock prices. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has
climbed 17 percent since the end of the third quarter.  Fed’s View  High unemployment is one reason why the Fed on Jan. 25 said
it would keep its benchmark lending rate low at least until late
2014 from a prior estimate of mid-2013.  “We still have a long way to go before the labor market
can be said to be operating normally,” Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told the House Budget Committee in Washington
yesterday. “Fortunately, over the past few months, indicators
of spending, production and job-market activity have shown some
signs of improvement.”  With today’s jobs report, the government will issue its
annual benchmark update, which aligns the data with corporate
tax records and covers the period from April 2010 to March 2011.
The Labor Department estimated in September that payrolls for
the 12 months would be increased by 192,000.  It will also include changes to the figures used to adjust
the data for seasonal swings which will affect numbers back to
January 2007.  Revisions Included  In addition, the report will include methodology changes to
the household survey, incorporating new population data from the
decennial census, according to the Labor Department.  The government last week reported the economy grew at a 2.8
percent annual pace in the fourth quarter after a 1.8 percent
gain in the prior three months.  Consumer spending  rose at a 2 percent pace last quarter,
less than the median forecast of economists surveyed. Household
purchases climbed 2.2 percent in 2011 after an increase of 2
percent in 2010, the weakest two-year performance of any
expansion since the end of World War II.  A report from the  Institute for Supply Management  at 10
a.m. will show the non-manufacturing index that tracks almost 90
percent of the economy rose to 53.2 this month, the highest
since August, from 53 in December, according to the median
forecast of economists surveyed. A reading greater than 50
signals growth.  A report from the Commerce Department at 10 a.m. may show
 factory orders  increased 1.5 percent in December after a 1.8
percent gain the prior month, according to economists surveyed.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in  Washington  at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  