-- Energy Use for Heating May Come Close to Normal Levels Next Week
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-02-03T13:32:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/energy-use-for-heating-may-come-close-to-normal-levels-next-week.html
The amount of energy used for heating
homes may return to near-normal levels across much of the U.S.
next week before milder weather settles in by mid-month,
forecasters said.  Cooler air in the Pacific Northwest,  Colorado  and Texas
will drive energy demand for warming homes to normal levels,
according to an outlook for Feb. 4 to Feb. 10 by  David Salmon ,
meteorologist at Weather Derivatives in Belton, Missouri.  Much of the rest of the U.S., including the Northeast, may
be within 90 percent of normal for this time of year, Salmon
predicted.  Traders use long-range temperature outlooks to gauge energy
use and demand for heating and cooling.  Power plants  consume
about 30 percent of the nation’s gas supplies, according to
Energy Department data.  By the middle of the month, milder weather may start to
return to the eastern half of the U.S. Temperatures may be 8 to
14 degrees Fahrenheit (4.4 to 7.8 Celsius) above normal from the
 Great Lakes  to the Northeast and mid-Atlantic, including New
York and Chicago, according to  MDA EarthSat Weather  in
Gaithersburg, Maryland.  From the Canadian plains to the U.S. South, temperatures
may be 5 to 7 degrees above normal, according to the same
forecast, for Feb. 12 to Feb. 17.  Commodity Weather Group LLC President  Matt Rogers , in his
outlook for the same period, said the warmest air will be
concentrated in a smaller region from the Great Lakes to the
Northeast. In addition, the southern Rocky Mountains may be
cooler than normal, Rogers, based in Bethesda, Maryland, said in
his 11- to 15-day forecast.  The normal average temperature in New York for Feb. 10 is
about 35 degrees, according to MDA. In Boston, it’s 31; in
 Chicago , 27; Atlanta, 46; Houston, 54; Seattle, 43; and Burbank,
California, 56.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  