-- England Turns to Revamped Squad for First 6 Nations Match Against Scotland
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-02-03T09:23:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/england-turns-to-revamped-squad-for-first-6-nations-match-against-scotland.html
The  England  rugby squad will have a
new look tomorrow at the start of the defense of its 6 Nations
title against Scotland.  An interim coach, a new captain and a number of first-time
players will be on display at Murrayfield in Edinburgh. The
changes followed last year’s World Cup run that featured
disappointment on and off the field.  Stuart Lancaster is serving as interim coach after  Martin Johnson  quit in November, while Chris Robshaw takes over as
captain for the retired  Lewis Moody . Lancaster’s first squad of
22 will feature eight new players, including starters Brad
Barritt, Owen Farrell and Phil Dawson.  “There are some lads who’ve come to England for the first
time, some lads who’ve been on the cusp and some lads who’ve
been to a  World Cup ,” Lancaster told reporters at last week in
 London . “We’ve got to let them go and have no fear of
failure.”  France  hosts Italy in tomorrow’s tournament opener and
 Wales  visits Ireland in two days. World Cup runner-up France is
favored to lift the trophy by U.K. bookmakers, followed by
Wales, Ireland and England.  “Everybody sees it as a wide-open championship,” Wales
captain Sam Warburton told reporters. “I don’t think many
people are predicting what’s going to happen.”  ‘Fresh Start’  France is the 6-4 favorite with Ladbrokes.com, meaning a
successful bet of $4 will return $6 plus the original stake.
Wales is 3-1, England and Ireland are both 4-1 and Scotland is
25-1.  Italy  is the long shot at 150-1.  England won the 6 Nations last year for the first time
since 2003, missing a Grand Slam with a final-game loss to
Ireland. It went to the World Cup in New Zealand with a goal of
reaching the semifinals and came up short with a quarterfinal
loss to France.  England also made headlines with a number of incidents
involving players and staff. Several players, including record
points scorer  Jonny Wilkinson , joined Moody in retirement in the
aftermath, while other squad members were omitted this year.  “The fact there’s been a lot of change has brought a lot
of energy,” said flanker Tom Wood, who will miss the first two
games with a toe injury. “It’s a fresh start.”  The game will be a rematch of England’s World Cup pool win
in October.  Scotland  coach Andy Robinson recently called England
“arrogant” in that victory and said he’d use the anger of the
loss as motivation.  “You use every emotion, that is what rugby is about,”
Robinson said. “It’s a passionate game, it’s a physical game
and you’ve got to channel all that into your performance.”  French Consistency  France looks to avenge a 22-21 defeat in Rome last year,
its first loss to Italy in the tournament. The French then
became the first team to reach the World Cup final after losing
two pool games and new coach Philippe Saint-Andre wants the team
to overcome its inconsistent form.  “This is French rugby for the last four years, for the
last 100 years,” he told reporters. “We can be one day up and
one day near the floor. The biggest challenge is to try to be
very consistent.”  Wales is the second favorite after a run to the World Cup
semifinals, which included a quarterfinal win over Ireland and
Warburton wants the team to take the same approach it took in
 New Zealand .  “We played each game as just another rugby match,” he
said. “We played with no fear and never went into our shells.
That will probably be the same message this time.”  Brian O’Driscoll , who’s scored an Ireland-record 25 tries
in the 6 Nations, will miss the tournament after shoulder
surgery. The Irish have not had back-to-back 6 Nations victories
since winning the Grand Slam in 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 