-- Enzo, Eurocopter, Beyonce, Super Bowl: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-02-03T12:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/enzo-eurocopter-beyonce-super-bowl-intellectual-property-1-.html
Enzo Life Sciences, which makes
products for genetic analysis to diagnose disease, sued rivals
Roche Diagnostics Corp.,  Life Technologies Corp. (LIFE)  and  Gen-Probe
Inc. (GPRO)  alleging infringement of a U.S. patent.  The unit of New York-based  Enzo Biochem (ENZ)  contends Roche, of
Indianapolis; Life, of Carlsbad, California; and Gen-Probe, of
 San Diego , are wrongly using gene assays to detect HIV and other
disorders before the patent expires.  In dispute is patent 6,992,180, which was issued in 2006,
11 years after the initial application was filed.  Enzo “has the right to sue and recover damages for any
current or past infringement” of the patent, its lawyers said
in three separate complaints filed Jan. 30 in federal court in
Wilmington, Delaware.  Enzo Biochem reported $102 million in sales and a $16
million net loss for the 12-month period ending Oct. 31,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Its shares have fallen
about 47 percent in the past year.  Roche parent  Roche Holding AG (ROG)  of Basel,  Switzerland , with
about $48 billion in annual sales, is the world’s biggest maker
of cancer drugs.  Life Technologies logged about $3.5 billion in sales in the
fiscal year ended in December 2010, and projects more than $400
million in net income this year.  Gen-Probe, with about $554 million in revenue for the 12
months ended Sept. 30, makes tests for sexually transmitted
diseases and blood screening.  Suzanne Clancy, a Life Technologies spokeswoman, declined
to comment on the lawsuit. Michael Watts of Gen-Probe didn’t
immediately return voice and e-mail messages seeking comment.  “We are reviewing this matter and are confident of our
position,” Robin Snyder, a spokeswoman for Roche, said in an
e-mail. “Beyond that, we are not able to comment on pending
litigation.”  The cases are Enzo v. Roche, 12-cv-106; Enzo v. Life
Technologies, 12-cv-105; and Enzo v. Gen-Probe, 12-cv-104, U.S.
District Court, District of  Delaware  (Wilmington).  Neptune’s Krill Patent Suit Put on Hold Pending USPTO Action  Neptune Technologies & Bioresources Inc.’s patent
infringement lawsuit against a Norwegian fisheries company and a
Utah vitamin company has been put on hold, according to a court
filing.  Neptune, based in Laval,  Quebec , sued two Aker ASA units
and Schiff Nutrition International Inc. for patent infringement
in federal court in Delaware in October. They were accused of
infringing Neptune’s patent 8,030,348.  The patent, issued in October, covers an extract from
krill, which is a small shrimp-like marine crustacean. According
to the patent, the extract can be used in nutraceutical,
pharmaceutical or cosmetic applications.  Schiff is promoting MegaRed, a krill-based oil, as an aid
to cardiovascular health.  In a Jan. 30 court filing, all parties agreed to put the
dispute on hold, pending a re-examination of the patent at the
U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. When those proceedings are
complete, the parties have 10 days to contact the court and
report on the status of the patent office action.  The case is Neptune Technologies & Bioresources Inc. v.
Aker BioMarein ASA, 11-cv-894, U.S. District Court, District of
Delaware (Wilmington).  Eurocopter, Textron Both Say They Won Canadian Patent Dispute  Eurocopter SAS and  Textron Inc. (TXT) ’s Bell Helicopter both
claimed victory in a patent-infringement case in a Canadian
court, Australian Aviation  reported  on its website.  Eurocopter sued Bell, claiming landing gear on the Bell 429
copter infringed its patents and is a “slavish copy” of its
own design, according to Australian Aviation.  The court did find infringement and ordered Bell to pay
punitive damages and destroy the infringing product, according
to Australian Aviation.  Bell’s claim to victory lies in the court’s dismissal of 15
other claims by Marignane, France-based Eurocopter, the website
reported. Textron is based in Providence,  Rhode Island .  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  ‘Blue Ivy Carter NYC’ Request Dropped by Trademark Applicant  A New Jersey clothing designer who filed an application to
register “Blue Ivy Carter NYC” as a trademark four days after
a daughter born to pop singer  Beyonce Knowles  was given that
name has dropped the request.  Joseph Mbeh, who designs for his own label  FourFront1602 ,
filed the application with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office
on Jan. 11. In the application, he said he wanted to use the
mark for children’s clothing and footwear.  He abandoned his application Jan. 24 after receiving media
attention and being accused of trying to cash in on the fame of
the newborn child and her parents.  In a  statement  released on the HipHopWired.com website,
Mbeh said he had been designing a children’s line before the
baby was born. To protect the name, he filed an application and
started creating samples, which he planned to present to her
parents, Knowles and  Jay-Z , also known as Sean Corey Carter.  “Given our history and the mark we’ve made as fashion
trendsetters, we wanted to create and present a complete idea to
the Carters that would uphold the integrity of their collective
brands,” he said in the statement.  Mbeh said his objective was to “foster a creative
relationship” with the two performers, not to “destroy a
potential one.”  On Jan. 26, BGJ Trademark Holdings LLC, which is Knowles’s
trademark-holding company, filed an application to register
“Blue Ivy Carter” for a range of products in addition to
children’s clothing. According to the application, the mark
would be used with fragrances and cosmetics, key chains,
banners, toys and sports equipment, audio and visual sound
recordings, product merchandising and entertainment services.  An application was filed Jan. 20 to register “Blue Ivy
Carter Glory IV”  for a variety of cosmetic and fragrance uses.
The applicant is DBH By Benton Clothier LLC, which does business
as Creative Business House.  According to the  Creative Business House website , the
company does trademark registration and manufactures patterns
and samples. The company said its clients include fashion
photographer Nigel Barker; Donald Trump, for the interior design
used on “The Apprentice;” Tommy Hilfiger; and the Sweetface by
J.Lo line of Jennifer Lopez.  Creative Business House of Long Island City,  New York ,
didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed request for comment.  Super Bowl Trademark Enforcement Takes Place in ‘Clean Zones’  When fans arrive at the Indianapolis stadium for the
National Football League’s  Super Bowl XLVI , they will encounter
“clean zones” near the stadium barring the sale or promotion
of any goods or services connected to the game unless the vendor
is approved and paid $75 for a “limited duration license,”
Sports Illustrated  reported .  The zones, part of efforts to limit so-called “guerilla
marketing” by unauthorized vendors, apply to long-established
businesses as well as vendors who come into town on game day,
according to Sports Illustrated.  The magazine reported that while the requirement for
“clean zones” isn’t new, Indianapolis is the first  Super Bowl 
host city to designate multiple sites, and to make the radius of
such zones adjustable.  Host cities that fail to enforce their “clean zone”
ordinances are subject to fines to be paid to the sponsors of
the sporting event, according to Sports Illustrated.  Philippines Experiences 7 Percent Surge in Trademark Filings  Trademark applications in the  Philippines  rose 7 percent in
2011 from the previous year, the country’s Business Mirror
newspaper  reported .  Americans filed 23 percent of the 17,928 applications
submitted in 2011, part of the 8 percent increase in foreign
applications for that year, according to the Business Mirror.  Residents of the Philippines filed 57 percent of the
trademark applications, the Business Mirror reported.  The Intellectual Property Office of the Philippines reduced
the turnaround time for trademark applications to 8.3 months
from 10 months from filing to registration, the newspaper
reported.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Twitter Receives More than 4,000 DMCA Takedown Requests  Twitter Inc., the San Francisco-based provider of short
messaging services, has received  more than 4,400 copyright
infringement claims  made under the Digital Millennium Copyright
Act, according to the Chilling Effects website.  Chilling Effects, which traces DMCA takedown notices,  is a
joint project  of the Electronic Frontier Foundation and Harvard
University, Stanford University, University of  California  at
Berkeley, University of  San Francisco , University of Maine,
George Washington School of Law, and Santa Clara University
School of Law clinics.  Most of the takedown notices claim a particular “tweet”
transmitted through Twitter provides a link to illegal file-
sharing sites where copyrighted material can be downloaded
without authorization.  Most of the notices were sent by movie studios or music
companies. Twitter also received DMCA notices from Cricket South
Africa, Cricket  Australia , the Premier League, the Board of
Control for Cricket in  India  and Philadelphia-based Westminster
Theological Seminary.  The seminary’s takedown notice was somewhat different from
most. It complained that a Twitter user has an avatar that
infringed the school’s copyright-protected logo design
“depicting an open book with a cross in the middle.”  Michigan Man Arrested for Illegally Streaming Sports Events  A  Michigan  man was arrested for operating websites that
illegally streamed football and basketball games over the
Internet just days before the Super Bowl will be distributed
live to some mobile devices.  Yonjo Quiroa, 28, was arrested Feb. 1 and federal
prosecutors seized 16 websites, including nine he operated,
according to  Manhattan  U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara.  “Sports fans may be tempted by illegal streaming websites,
but in the end it is they who pay the price,” Bharara said in a
statement yesterday. “These websites and their operators
deprive sports leagues and networks of legitimate revenue,
forcing spectators and viewers to bear the cost of this
piracy.”  The New York Giants and New England Patriots will play in a
Super Bowl rematch Feb. 5 at Lucas Oil Stadium in Indianapolis.
 Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  said yesterday in a statement that
it will stream the Super Bowl over some mobile devices, the
first time that the game may be viewed that way.  The websites seized by the federal government are known as
“linking sites” because they provide access to other sites
that host pirated events, Bharara said. Linking sites are
popular because they allow users to browse and locate sporting
events that would otherwise be hard to find, he said.  Quiroa, who lives in Comstock Park, earned at least $13,000
from merchants who advertised on his sites, prosecutors said. He
was arrested yesterday in Michigan and charged with copyright
infringement.  The case is U.S. v. Quiroa, 12-mag-00241, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in San Francisco at 
 vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  