-- Estonians Keep Faith in Euro a Year After Switch
-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 2012-02-03T09:11:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/estonians-keep-faith-in-euro-a-year-after-switch-correct-.html
(Corrects size of economy in eighth paragraph.)  A little more than a year ago, the
Baltic country of  Estonia  adopted the euro at a time when the
Greek crisis and the Irish, Spanish, Portuguese, and Italian
crises, were exposing the common currency’s weaknesses.  Slovakia, another eastern European nation that had joined
the euro, was angry that it had to help the Greeks. The Poles
and the Czechs were dragging their feet on joining. Yet by
treaty all European Union members were required eventually to
join the common currency, while two, the U.K. and  Denmark , have
secured opt-outs.  Today, Estonia’s economy is the fastest-growing in the
currency bloc, consumers and businesses are paying lower
 interest rates , and business ties with Finland, a euro-member
state and Estonia’s main trading partner, are tighter than ever,
Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its Feb. 6 issue.  “Lots of Finnish producers seek cooperation partners here
now as things are more transparent for them,” said Ermo Saks,
owner of an audiovisual production company in the capital of
Tallinn. Costs were 48 percent lower in Estonia than in  Finland 
in 2010, according to Eurostat  website .  Fifty-six percent of the Baltic nation’s inhabitants still
back the adoption of  Europe ’s single currency, compared with 42
percent who regret the move, according to a  government-
commissioned poll  of 500 respondents by Turu-uuringute AS in
October. This compares with 60 percent support last January, and
49 percent support a year earlier, according to similar surveys
commissioned by the government. No margin of error was given.  ‘Small and Poor’  Estonians, two decades removed from their half-a-century
entrapment inside the  Soviet Union , feel safer inside the euro
club.  “A small and poor state on the periphery with  Russia  as
its neighbor, being a member of the European core is still very
valuable even if the eurozone is in a time of great
difficulty,” said Andres Kasekamp, a political science
professor in  Tartu University .  Estonia’s $19 billion economy  shrank  by almost a fifth in
2008 and 2009, after its property bubble burst and the global
financial crisis sucked all credit out of the economy. In
response, the government cut public-sector wages 10 percent,
raised taxes, took bigger-than-planned dividends from state-
owned companies and froze pension contributions to meet the 3
percent budget-deficit limit for euro entry.  ‘Ended All Speculation’  Public debt was 5.8 percent of gross domestic product at
the end of last year, the lowest rate in the European Union, and
the budget was in surplus, Prime Minister  Andrus Ansip  said in
December. The economy grew 7.9 percent last year, according to a
central bank forecast on Dec. 14, partly as adopting the euro
boosted the confidence of its EU trade partners.  “The most important thing was that we ended all the
speculation about a possible devaluation” of the kroon, says
Priit Perens, the chief executive officer of Swedbank AS,
Estonia’s biggest lender owned by Stockholm-based  Swedbank AB. (SWEDA)   Fears that all the Baltic countries would eventually
devalue their currencies had hampered investor confidence for a
long time. A devaluation might have given only a minor boost to
exports, according to the  International Monetary Fund  and the
government, as Estonia’s exports largely depend on import costs,
adding little value. In 2009, when devaluation rumors peaked,
more than 90 percent of all bank loans were already in euros.
Paying back those loans in a devalued currency would have been
very hard, potentially triggering an even deeper crisis.  ‘Convenient Travel’  The average lending rate to companies fell to 4.48 percent
at the end of November from 6.49 percent at the end of 2008,
according to Estonian  central bank data . Rates on mortgages in
euros dropped to 3.4 percent in November from 5.26 percent at
end-2008.  “Making travel more convenient for our clients was the
clearest effect of the euro entry for us,” said Luulea Laane, a
spokeswoman for ferry company  Tallink Grupp AS. (TAL1T)  Tallink is
Estonia’s largest company by revenue, which increased 10 percent
in the financial year ended Aug. 31, to 897 million euros.  Estonia has no outstanding bonds, so investors speculate on
its creditworthiness by trading credit-default swaps. Five-year
Estonian CDS closed at 134 yesterday, according to prices from
data provider CMA. The third-riskiest of the European Union’s 27
members three years ago, it’s now among the six safest. Standard
& Poor’s Ratings Services on Jan. 13 affirmed Estonia’s AA-
rating, the fourth-highest investment grade and the highest
rating in eastern Europe on par with the  Czech Republic .  Opponents of the switch resent the pain they went through
to qualify for the euro.  “I don’t see what the point was of adopting the euro,”
said Hannes Valja, 30, a printer. “The associated cost was too
high considering what we got in exchange.”  The resentment might flare up in the next two months, when
the Estonian Parliament discusses the use of funds raised by the
European Financial Stability Facility to bail out  Greece .
Estonia, with a 2011 budget of 6 billion euros, has committed to
a maximum of 2 billion euros of guarantees.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  