-- Gazprom ‘Doing Its Best’ to Meet EU Demand as Cold Snap Bites
-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a   a n d   A n d r e w   C l a p h a m
-- 2012-02-03T16:23:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/eu-says-russian-gas-supplies-fall-to-some-european-nations-1-.html
OAO Gazprom (GAZP) , Russia’s natural-gas
export monopoly said it’s “doing its best” to meet soaring
demand from the European Union caused by freezing weather as
some EU states report declining supplies.  Supplies have been reduced to  Poland , Slovakia,  Austria ,
 Hungary , Bulgaria,  Romania ,  Greece  and  Italy , European
Commission spokeswoman  Marlene Holzner  told reporters in
Brussels today. She cited a drop of 30 percent to Austria, 24
percent to Italy and 8 percent to Poland.  Gazprom is “doing its best” to meet rising demand, and
all its systems are operating despite the cold, Sergei Komlev,
head of pricing at the company’s export pricing division, said
in Moscow. Komlev said Gazprom is fulfilling its contracts and
European customers are demanding more. “Their appetite has
increased too much.”  A cold snap sweeping across  Europe  has increased demand for
the fuel used for heating and pushed gas prices in the U.K. to
the highest level in more than three years. The death toll in
eastern Europe rose to about 250, with temperatures as low as
minus 50 degrees Celsius (minus 58 degrees Fahrenheit) in parts
of Kazakhstan.  “The contracts that  Russia  has apparently allow for a
certain flexibility in case they also need the gas, and that’s
the situation that Russia’s facing at the moment,” Holzner said.
Gazprom hasn’t said it’s reducing exports because of increased
domestic demand in statements on the issue.  “They are asking for more than we are obliged to supply,”
Komlev said. “There is a difference between wishful thinking
and agreed contractual volumes.”  Price Disputes  Gazprom said yesterday that Ukraine was taking more fuel
than contracted. NAK Naftogaz Ukrainy, Ukraine’s state-run
energy company, said imports and transit are in compliance with
existing contracts.  The EU relies on Gazprom for about a quarter of its gas,
with as much as 80 percent of Russian shipments crossing
Ukraine. Disputes between the two countries over gas prices and
transport costs have disrupted winter supplies to Europe twice
since 2006. Tension escalated this year as Ukraine, Gazprom’s
biggest gas customer by contracted volumes, sought to
renegotiate its agreements with Russia.  Natural-gas storage facilities across the EU are full and
the situation doesn’t qualify as a “state of emergency”
because the affected countries have been able to use natural gas
from elsewhere, Holzner said.  ‘Well Equipped’  EON AG said it’s receiving about one-third less gas from
OAO Gazprom today. EON said it’s “well equipped” to cope with
the supply reduction and that German gas storage facilities are
“high” for this time of year.  Polskie Gornictwo Naftowe i Gazownictwo SA (PGN) , Poland’s
dominant gas company, said deliveries from Russia returned to
the requested level today after they were reduced yesterday. The
company is getting as much gas as it has asked for. Deliveries
from Gazprom were cut by about 7 percent yesterday, PGNiG said
in a statement.  Gas for the next working day climbed as much as 9.6 percent
as the pipeline between Britain and Belgium was exporting fuel
at 10 million cubic meters a day, according to a website run by
Interconnector (U.K.) Ltd. Temperatures in  London  may drop as
low as minus 6 degrees Celsius tomorrow, 9 degrees below the 30-
year average, CustomWeather Inc. data on Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Clapham in Brussels at 
 aclapham@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net ;
{ at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  