-- EU Says Euro Meeting Logical When Greek Debt-Swap Deal Reached
-- B y   A n d r e w   C l a p h a m
-- 2012-02-03T13:23:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/eu-says-euro-meeting-logical-when-greek-debt-swap-deal-reached.html
A meeting of euro-area finance
ministers “can and should” be convened once Greece has reached
a debt-swap deal with its private creditors, said  Amadeu Altafaj , a European Commission spokesman.  “It seems entirely logical to me that the finance
ministers would be mobilized when there are sufficient elements
for a conclusive discussion,” Altafaj told reporters in
Brussels today. “When we have final clarity on the accord, on
private-sector participation, we’ll have more elements on the
table.”  Greece has reached agreement on the basic parameters of a
debt swap with private creditors and is in the final stretch of
talks with European Union and International Monetary Fund
officials on a second rescue package, government spokesman
Pantelis Kapsis said in an interview with Real FM radio today.  Creditors are prepared to accept an average coupon of as
low as 3.6 percent on new 30-year bonds in the exchange, said a
person familiar with the talks, who declined to be identified
because a final deal hasn’t been struck yet. The aim is to cut
 Greece ’s debt load to 120 percent of gross domestic product by
2020 from 162 percent in 2011. The alternative is an
uncontrolled default that may lead to deeper losses and ripple
effects throughout  Europe .  Luxembourg’s  Jean-Claude Juncker , who leads the group of
euro-area finance ministers, may announce today whether he’ll
convene the group next week, his spokesman Guy Schuller said by
text message.  German Finance Ministry spokesman Martin Kotthaus said the
ministry has received no invitation yet to a possible meeting.
European Union Economic and Monetary Commissioner Olli Rehn also
hasn’t received an invitation, Altafaj said.  Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  said the country is in
the final stretch of negotiations for a second financing program
that will place the economy on a sounder footing.  “We are in the final phase of this very critical process
to shape a new financing program for Greece and to complete the
loan agreement which will lighten the burden of public debt and
ensure funding for years to come,” Papademos said in a statement
posted on his website. The plan will help “restore fiscal
stability, improve competitiveness, revive the economy and
increase employment,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Clapham in Brussels at 
 aclapham@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net  