-- Euro-Area Manufacturing, Services Expand
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-02-03T10:57:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/euro-area-manufacturing-services-expand-led-by-germany-france.html
European services and factory output
strengthened in January, led by growth in  Germany  and  France , as
the region’s leaders sought a solution to the debt crisis.  A euro-area  composite index  based on a survey of purchasing
managers in both industries rose to 50.4 from 48.3 in December,
London-based Markit Economics said in a report today. January’s
reading is unchanged from an initial estimate on Jan. 24. A
reading above 50 indicates expansion.  Finance ministers of the AAA rated countries using the euro
-- Germany, Luxembourg, the Netherlands and  Finland  -- are set
to meet today in Berlin as European leaders try to end the
region’s debt crisis. While the turmoil and cooling global
export demand has undermined the recovery, business confidence
has improved and European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi 
has said 2012 will be a “much better” year.  Today’s data confirm that “business conditions stabilized
following declines seen in the final four months of last year
and that the region may avoid a slide back into recession,”
 Chris Williamson , chief economist at Markit, said in the report.
“For the first quarter, gross domestic product for the region
may well show a small gain.”  The euro strengthened after the report, rising 0.2 percent
to $1.3171 as of 10:45 a.m. in  Frankfurt .  European Services  Manufacturing and services growth accelerated to a seven-
month high in Germany and a five-month high in France, while
contractions in Spain and  Italy  eased, Markit said. A composite
gauge of euro-region services rose to 50.4 in January, up from
48.8 in December.  German  business confidence  jumped to a five-month high in
January. The Ifo institute’s  business climate index , based on a
survey of 7,000 executives, climbed to 108.3 from 107.3 in
December, the group said on Jan. 25. The report adds to data
that the country has shaken off a probable economic contraction
in the fourth quarter.  Still, the euro-area economy may struggle to  gather
strength  after expanding just 0.1 percent in the third quarter
as governments from Ireland to  Spain  step up spending cuts to
help restore investor confidence. European  unemployment  remained
at the highest in almost 14 years in December, suggesting the
region’s debt crisis and cooling  economic growth  has prompted
companies to cut jobs.  ‘Recession in Certain Phases’  The euro-area economy will probably expand 0.3 percent this
year after growing 1.6 percent in 2011, the ECB said on Dec. 8,
when cutting borrowing costs a  second time  in as many months.
The central bank has offered banks unlimited loans for three
years to prevent a credit crunch.  European Central Bank council member Ewald Nowotny said on
Jan. 30 that the euro area may fail to grow or show a
“recession in certain phases” of this year.  “Anecdotal evidence from survey respondents indicates that
much of the improvement appears to be based on business and
consumer confidence reviving, in the belief that the worst of
the region’s debt problems are behind us,” Markit’s Williamson
said. “As such, the outlook remains very much dependent upon
further progress in resolving the crisis.”  Today’s gathering of finance ministers is part of a series
of meetings convened by officials from the highest-rated euro
states, a German Finance Ministry spokesman said, speaking on
the customary condition of anonymity. Ministers will discuss
current issues without briefing reporters after the meeting.  ‘Ultra-Difficult’  Greece  is seeking a second international bailout, which
European officials and Greek creditors say may be wrapped up in
coming days. Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  said
yesterday that Greek bond-swap talks with private creditors are
“ultra-difficult,” and the steps to tackle the debt crisis
adopted at a summit on Jan. 30 were “largely insufficient.”  Royal Philips Electronics NV (PHIA) , the world’s largest light
bulb maker, said on Jan. 30 that it is “cautious” about
prospects for 2012 after writedowns and sluggish sales helped
spark its biggest loss in a decade. “ Europe  is not a great
place for growth right now.” Philips Chief Executive Officer
Frans van Houten said at the time.  “I am confident that the euro will be in better shape in
2012,” Draghi said on Jan. 19. “I look at the progress that
has been achieved on the two root causes of the situation,
namely lack of fiscal discipline and lack of structural
reform.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  