-- European Retail December Sales Unexpectedly Fell, led by Germany, France
-- B y   P a t r i c k   H e n r y
-- 2012-02-03T12:20:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/euro-region-retail-sales-unexpectedly-decline.html
European  retail sales  unexpectedly
declined in December, led by  Germany  and France, as unemployment
at a 14-year high and government spending cuts sapped consumer
demand.  Sales dropped 0.4 percent in the month after a similar
decrease in November, the European Union’s statistics office in
Luxembourg said today. Economists had forecast a gain of 0.3
percent, the median of 16 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey
showed.  Sales (RSWAEMUY)  slipped 1.6 percent from a year earlier.  European households may cut spending as governments step up
austerity measures to contain the region’s fiscal crisis just as
companies start to eliminate jobs. Euro-region  unemployment  held
at 10.4 percent in December, the highest in almost 14 years,
suggesting the region’s worsening debt crisis and cooling
economic growth have prompted companies to cut jobs.  “The decline in euro-area December retail sales confirms
our view that private consumption is likely to have fallen in
the fourth quarter, contributing to a contraction in euro-area
gross domestic product of 0.3 percent quarter on quarter,”
James Ashley, senior European economist at  RBC Capital Markets 
in  London , said by e-mail.  The euro was little changed after the data were released,
trading at $1.3172 at 12:41 p.m. in Brussels, up 0.2 percent.  ‘Partial Relief’  German retail sales fell 1.4 percent from November, when
they dropped 1 percent, today’s report showed. Sales in France
and  Spain  declined 0.3 percent and 0.8 percent, respectively.  “Some partial relief is likely in the next few months as
inflation moderates over the course of the first half, thereby
supporting real household incomes,” Ashley said. “But even
allowing for that, we do not expect to see any strong resurgence
in private consumption in the short-term.”  In contrast to Europe’s gloomy retail outlook, services and
factory output in the euro area strengthened in January, led by
growth in Germany and  France .  A composite index based on a survey of purchasing managers
in both industries rose to 50.4 from 48.3 in December, London-
based Markit Economics said in a report today. A reading above
50 indicates expansion.  Italy’s inflation rate fell in January as post-holiday
sales more than offset tax increases in Prime Minister Mario Monti’s austerity package.  AAA Countries  Finance ministers of the AAA rated countries using the euro
-- Germany, Luxembourg, the Netherlands and Finland -- are set
to meet today in Berlin as European leaders try to end the
crisis. With the turmoil undermining the recovery and global
export demand cooling, European Central Bank council member
Ewald Nowotny said on Jan. 30 the euro-area economy may fail to
grow or show a “recession in certain phases” of this year.  The ECB, which has forecast inflation to slow this year,
will hold its next rate assessment on Feb. 9. The central bank
has cut its interest rates twice over the past three months,
bringing the benchmark to 1 percent, matching a record low.  While European unemployment remains high, employers in the
U.S. probably increased payrolls in January, a sign companies
are gaining confidence the country’s expansion will weather
 Europe ’s slump, economists said before a report today.  Employment grew by 140,000 after rising by 200,000 in
December, according to the median forecast of 89 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. The  jobless rate  may have held at an
almost three-year low of 8.5 percent. Another report may show
 service industries  expanded at a faster pace last month.  ‘Respectable Pace’  “The labor market continues to churn out new jobs at a
respectable pace,” said  Chris Rupkey , chief financial economist
at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in  New York . “We aren’t
back to normal yet, but we are on our way.”  In  Asia ,  Reserve Bank  of India Deputy Governor  Subir Gokarn 
said the monetary authority will cut  interest rates  once it’s
confident inflation will keep slowing.  “The stance now is that we have reached the peak and any
further action will be toward easing,” Gokarn said in an
interview. The central bank isn’t concerned about the currency’s
record monthly advance in January “because in a sense it’s a
correction,” following last year’s 16 percent decline, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patrick Henry  in Brussels at 
 phenry8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  