-- Europe’s Leaders Shouldn’t Sacrifice Union to Save Euro: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-02-03T00:03:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/europe-s-leaders-shouldn-t-sacrifice-union-to-save-euro-view.html
The euro-area crisis is forcing many
of the European Union’s long-running political disputes to the
surface at the same time. As they wrestle to save the currency,
Europe’s leaders -- above all Britain’s  David Cameron , France’s
Nicolas Sarkozy and Germany’s  Angela Merkel  -- need to make sure
they don’t dismantle the union in the process.  Political tensions peaked in December, as Europe’s leaders
were rushing to put together a fiscal compact that would
convince markets that euro-area countries can get their
sovereign debts under control. Cameron tried to leverage the
need for a treaty to protect the U.K.’s lucrative financial
sector from new EU regulations, in particular a transactions tax
that is being proposed by France. When he failed, he vetoed the
treaty, forcing the others to work outside the EU.  As after any domestic fight, it’s taking awhile for EU
leaders to figure out whether their marriage of 27 can be the
same again. In one positive sign, despite political opposition
within his party, Cameron agreed this week to make an important
concession: The U.K. won’t stand in the way of letting other EU
members use the union’s buildings and bureaucracy to carry out
their new, non-EU, fiscal compact.  Act of Sanity  Cameron’s act of sanity shouldn’t obscure that this is a
dangerous moment for the EU. This remarkably successful
political project -- aimed at preventing a repeat of the horrors
of two world wars -- is often misunderstood. Euro-skeptics like
to portray the EU as a leviathan that has subordinated national
sovereignty to eurocrats; federalists present it as a train
rolling on tracks that lead inexorably toward a  United States  of
 Europe ; outsiders often see it as a genteel post-modern union,
in which nations work out their differences by committee.  The reality is messier, more competitive and more
vulnerable. It is a union achieved over decades with as much
bubble gum and spit as vision, in which the critical players
struggle continuously for the power to shape the union to their
advantage and bide their time when obliged to cut deals and
compromise on goals. To complicate matters, populist movements
in many EU countries, from  Hungary  to France, are now targeting
the EU as a proxy for complaints about globalization.  The perennial tension between the European Commission (an
unelected European bureaucracy based in Brussels) and the
European Council (which brings together the elected leaders of
national governments) is also coming to a head. Part of the deal
in the EU has long been that big countries rule at the Council,
but the little ones are protected by the Commission. Yet as
 Germany  takes the lead in forging a tighter fiscal union,
inevitably the Commission is being sidelined. Rarely, if ever,
has the EU been so dominated by a single country. Any crude move
-- such as Germany’s rapidly dropped suggestion that a European
budget czar be able to veto Greek fiscal policy -- can become
political dynamite.  Then there is the longstanding debate between
integrationists -- who want a smaller, more unified EU -- and
those who favor an EU that is looser and keeps adding members.
The EU is already running at multiple speeds to accommodate
these competing views, but the euro-area crisis has given new
life to the argument that the bloc should divide more formally
into a tightly integrated inner core and the rest.  What you might call the EU’s ideological balance also risks
being upset. Traditionally,  France  and Germany pushed for more
continental solutions to Europe’s problems, including extensive
labor regulations and other elements of what’s often called
“social Europe.” The U.K., often allied with Scandinavian and
Eastern European countries, pushed for more market-based
solutions. Cameron’s self-inflicted exile risks weakening the
impetus for changes that the EU still badly needs.  Resist Temptation  Merkel and Sarkozy are right to focus all their efforts on
the euro right now. Indeed, they should be doing more and faster
to ensure the currency survives -- the fiscal compact itself is
a longer term fix of little immediate interest to markets.
Failure would be calamitous for the EU and the world’s economy.
But they need to resist the temptation to use this moment to
sideline the non-euro countries and create a dual Europe, no
matter how attractive it may seem to be rid of the awkward
Brits. The onus on Cameron is to restore confidence in his
government’s commitment to the EU.  Otherwise, saving the euro may come at the expense of
breaking the EU into a divided Europe of core and periphery
countries. That outcome would make Europe poorer and weaker at a
time when it needs all the strength it can muster to compete on
the global stage.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 