-- Expect China to Shape the Next Bretton Woods Pact: Philip Coggan
-- B y   P h i l i p   C o g g a n
-- 2012-02-03T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/expect-china-to-shape-next-bretton-woods-pact-commentary-by-philip-coggan.html
When the world economy heads into
crisis, the international currency system often breaks down.
This occurs either because debtors can’t meet their obligations,
or because creditors fear they are not being repaid in sound
money. The first condition exists today in the  euro zone ; the
second is likely to emerge in the China-U.S. relationship.  So how might these conditions change the system? Much
discussion concerns whether the  U.S. dollar  will be replaced as
the global reserve currency by the Chinese yuan or whether it
will simply be one of a number of reserve currencies that
includes the euro, yuan and yen.  The global reserve currency is the one that forms the
largest proportion of the holdings of central banks. More
broadly, it is also the currency most likely to be accepted by
merchants worldwide. In my view, the debate about whether the
dollar will be replaced by the yuan is a bit of a red herring
because such a shift will not occur quickly.  As of 2010, about 60 percent of all foreign-exchange
reserves were denominated in dollars, giving the U.S. currency a
critical mass. Investors are still comfortable with holding it;
despite the country’s fiscal problems, in times of crisis, the
dollar is regarded as a haven. It will take a long while for
international investors to become confident that a Communist-led
government will always respect their rights.  China’s Enormous Economy  By 2020, if current trends are realized,  China  will become
the world’s largest economy. The nation’s foreign-exchange
reserves already give it significant power as a creditor nation.
But even if foreigners wanted to hold yuan instead of dollars,
there would be constraints on their doing so. And removing the
constraints would probably cause the yuan to soar, something
that the Chinese are keen to avoid.  So it seems unlikely that the next 10 years will see a yuan
standard replacing a dollar standard. But might the present
crisis conditions lead to some other sort of change? Might
countries, for example, be driven to enter a new arrangement
comparable to the 1944 Bretton Woods pact, in which the world’s
major industrial states agreed to adhere to a global gold
standard to stabilize international currencies?  At this juncture, an agreement on this scale would be very
difficult.  Bretton Woods  was made possible because of the
limited number of participants and the urgency of wartime. Much
of  Europe  was under Nazi occupation and could not take part; the
 Soviet Union  had little intellectual input; and the developing
world was consulted on a fairly cursory basis. The Americans
were in charge, but listened to John  Maynard Keynes  out of
respect for his intellect.  A modern agreement would have to get consensus from the
U.S., China, the European Union,  India ,  Brazil , and so on. This
would be tricky. But perhaps there could be an arrangement less
formal than Bretton Woods. In November 2010,  Robert Zoellick , a
former U.S. Treasury official who runs the  World Bank , wrote of
a concept in which countries would agree on structural reforms
to boost growth, forswear currency intervention and build a “co-
operative monetary system.” This system, he continued, “should
also consider employing gold as an international reference point
of market expectations about inflation, deflation and future
currency values.”  Some saw this mild suggestion as a call for a return to the
gold standard, which, barring desperate circumstances, is
unlikely. But before we dismiss all ideas for reform, we should
remember that the world operates under what some call a Bretton
Woods II regime, with the Americans buying Chinese goods and the
Chinese supplying the finance. The implications of this process
are everlasting U.S. trade deficits and an ever-greater
investment by the Chinese people in  U.S. government debt .  Dollar Connection  The system may have suited the Chinese until now because
they were eager to find manufacturing jobs for their rural
population. At some point, however, the Chinese may feel the
need to do something else with their trillions of dollars in
reserves. Already they are looking to diversify by acquiring
natural resources in the developing world. They have also
criticized the U.S. for its economic policy, calling on the
Americans to limit their budget deficit.  Despite the strength of this rhetoric, the Chinese will not
abandon the dollar outright. They already own so much in the way
of U.S. government debt that any indication of their intention
to sell would cause a plunge in bond prices. The fates of
creditor and debtor are locked together. So the answer might be
some kind of managed deal, with the Chinese agreeing to let
their currency strengthen and to limit their current account
surplus while the Americans agree to tackle their  budget
deficit . The currencies would trade in a range while the deficit
would have a target.  Timothy Geithner , the U.S. Treasury secretary, hinted at
such a solution in October 2010, suggesting a limit on current
account surpluses of about 4 percent of gross domestic product.
A Group of 20 meeting of finance ministers nodded mildly in the
direction of this proposal. But nothing will happen overnight.
Neither the Chinese nor the Americans will want to accept
constraints on their behavior.  The Chinese will change tack if they believe such a shift
is in their own interest. This might be because they face losses
on their government-bond holdings, or because they wish to shift
to a consumption-based, rather than an export-led, model to
court domestic popularity.  To some, the idea that the U.S. would accept constraints on
the independence of its economic policy might seem a fantasy. It
is hard enough for a president to get his own plans through
Congress, let alone get approval for a set of policies dictated
from abroad. As a result, one would expect a new system to arise
only as part of a further crisis.  Savers and Spenders  In a speech in October 2010,  Mervyn King , the governor of
the  Bank of England , called for a “grand bargain” among the
major players in the world economy. “The risk,” he said, “is
that, unless agreement on a common path of adjustment is
reached, conflicting policies will result in an undesirably low
level of world output, with all countries worse off as a
result.”  The fundamental problem is the imbalance between the saving
and the spending nations. In a sense, the situation resembles
that of the late 1920s when the Americans and French owned a
huge proportion of the world’s gold reserves; this time it is
the Asian and OPEC countries that have too much squirreled away.
What should naturally happen in such circumstances is for the
exchange rates of the surplus nations to appreciate. But
countries have been attempting to hold their currencies down,
either by intervening in the markets or by imposing  capital
controls . All currencies, however, cannot fall; some must rise
and risk deflation in the process.  Any target for exchange rates, or current-account
surpluses, would have to be flexible. Fixed exchange rates
require either subordination of monetary policy or capital
controls to be effective. The Chinese, who already restrict
investment, might favor capital controls, but it is hard to see
the U.S., with its huge financial-services industry, agreeing to
a worldwide restriction.  However, there is one factor that might persuade the U.S.
government to change its mind: its debt burden. As has already
been discussed, reducing debt via an austerity program is
unpalatable, and outright default is almost unthinkable. But
governments did manage to reduce their debt burdens after World
War II, under the auspices of the Bretton Woods system.  Only with capital controls can government debt burdens be
inflated away. Private savings can be more easily forced into
public-sector debt.  How would a managed exchange-rate system work today? Even
under Bretton Woods, after all, it eventually proved impossible
to keep exchange rates pegged. But the system did work for a
quarter of a century. And if an exchange-rate peg gives
speculators a tempting target, the answer would be to curb the
speculators. Again, if the Chinese set the rules, such a move
would seem more likely. They regard Western governments as
foolish for allowing their economic policies to be at the mercy
of the markets.  If the U.K. set the terms of the gold standard, and the
U.S. set those of Bretton Woods, then the terms of the next
financial system are likely to be set by the world’s biggest
creditor: China. And that system may look a lot different to the
one we have become used to over the past 30 years.  (Philip Coggan is a columnist for the Economist. This is an
excerpt from his book, “ Paper Promises : Debt, Money and the New
World Order,” to be published Feb. 7 by Perseus Books. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Philip Coggan at  philipcoggan@economist.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  