-- MF Global U.K. to Start Returning Funds as Soon as Next Week
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2012-02-03T13:04:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/mf-global-u-k-to-start-returning-funds-as-soon-as-next-week-1-.html
MF Global Holding Ltd. (MF) ’s U.K.
administrators told a London judge they plan to start returning
money to the failed broker’s clients as early as next week.  The interim distribution would be made “only to agreed
claims” from customers with protected accounts, Martin Pascoe,
a lawyer for the administrators, said at a court hearing today.  KPMG LLP, which was appointed to wind up the broker’s U.K.
unit, yesterday said it planned to make the first payment to
clients who had money locked in customer accounts. The interim
distribution will return 26 cents for every dollar claimed.  MF Global became the fifth-largest financial firm to file
for bankruptcy when it sought protection on Oct. 31 after making
a $6.3 billion bet on European sovereign debt. More than $1
billion was frozen in the U.K. unit’s protected customer
accounts along with client assets, such as shares and other
securities, worth about $100 million.  The return of client assets is made more difficult by the
fact that MF Global treated the funds as its own rather than
recognizing them as belonging to customers, KPMG said. The
“vast majority” of assets held for customers “became the
company’s property,” Pascoe told Judge David Richards.  KPMG is unable to return more than 26 percent of client
funds because of a pending Supreme Court case that will
determine which customers can claim protection, and a dispute
with the bankruptcy trustee in  New York  over about $740 million
held in the U.K. for American customers.  MF Global Inc.’s U.S. trustee, James Giddens, has
threatened to sue for the money.  “Like the Trustee, we wouldn’t rule out litigation,”
Pascoe said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Scinta at 
 cscinta@bloomberg.net  