-- MF’s Money Mystery Is How Much It Paid Moody’s: Jonathan Weil
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 2012-02-03T00:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/mf-money-mystery-is-how-much-it-paid-moody-s-commentary-by-jonathan-weil.html
So many times when the big credit-
rating companies have embarrassed themselves, the world has
sighed and chalked it up to a business model that by design
invites corruption and incompetence. Perhaps never before have
the public’s expectations for the industry been lower.  The fundamental flaw is that the major rating companies,
led by Moody’s Investors Service and Standard & Poor’s,
typically are paid by the issuers of the securities they rate,
or by other deeply interested parties, such as Wall Street
underwriters. Too often the raters seem to be the last to know
that a company they dubbed investment grade was going broke, or
that a mortgage bond once deemed AAA was about to default. The
public sees these things and naturally draws a  link  between what
the raters say and how they are compensated.  Although the government can’t make the credit raters more
capable, it can make them more transparent. Here’s a good place
to begin: Start requiring disclosures of how much the raters’
clients pay them for their services.  Consider some of the boilerplate in Moody’s reports on MF
Global Holdings Ltd., whose credit ratings were the subject of a
congressional  hearing  yesterday. Moody’s Oct. 27 report -- in
which it downgraded MF Global to junk, only four days before the
futures broker filed for bankruptcy -- said most issuers of debt
securities pay “fees ranging from $1,500 to approximately
$2,500,000” for “appraisal and rating services.”  It’s anyone’s guess whether the fees MF Global paid to
Moody’s fell within or outside this range. The companies know
how much money changed hands. They’re just not telling us.  Useless Disclosures  The disclosures in  Standard & Poor’s  reports are just as
useless. The company’s Oct. 26 report on MF Global said “S&P
may receive compensation for its ratings and certain credit-
related analyses, normally from issuers or underwriters of
securities or from obligors.” Coincidence or not, S&P
maintained an investment-grade mark on MF Global until the day
it failed.  There’s no such secrecy about the fees other types of
opinion vendors charge their clients. For more than a decade,
U.S. public companies have been required to disclose the annual
fees they pay their outside auditors. Similarly, when companies
hire  stock promoters  or other firms to publish research reports
profiling their shares, federal securities  laws  require
disclosures in the reports showing who paid for them, as well as
the amount and form of compensation.  The auditor-fee disclosures have been useful.  Fannie Mae ’s
proxy statement for 2003, for instance, showed the housing
financier paid  KPMG  $2.7 million to  audit  its books that year.
The fee was so tiny, for a company with $1 trillion of assets,
that it served as a red flag for investors, signaling that
KPMG’s audit quality couldn’t have been all that robust. The
next year Fannie Mae had a huge  accounting scandal .  At the other extreme, in its first annual report as a
public company,  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  said it paid its auditor,
 Deloitte & Touche ,  total fees  of $159.1 million for 2007, mostly
for non-audit work. The fees were so huge -- Blackstone’s total
assets were $13.2 billion at the time -- it would be reasonable
for investors to wonder what influence they might have had on
Deloitte’s judgment.  The parallels for credit-rating companies are obvious. Like
auditors and stock promoters, they’re paid to express opinions
to investors. Whatever their fees are, the public should be
told. The credit raters would have us believe there’s nothing
wrong with collecting cash from the same customers whose
securities they grade, and that this doesn’t cloud their
independence or objectivity. If that’s true, they should have no
problem with us knowing the actual dollar amounts.  Different Path  Unfortunately this isn’t the path the government has
chosen. The  Dodd-Frank Act , passed in 2010, included 19 pages of
new provisions governing how  credit-rating  companies operate.
Numerous federal banking and securities laws were amended to
remove statutory references to credit ratings, for instance, so
that regulators would reduce their reliance on them. Dodd-Frank
didn’t mandate disclosure of the raters’ fees, however.  A  rule  proposed last year by the Securities and Exchange
Commission would require companies such as Moody’s and S&P to
disclose in a form accompanying each credit rating whether the
grade was paid for by the issuer, underwriter or sponsor of the
security being rated -- or if it was purchased by someone else,
such as an investor. The rating company would also have to
disclose if the purchaser had paid it for any other services,
such as consulting or advisory work. Most important, though, no
dollar amounts would have to be divulged.  This is a mistake. A big reason that the public doesn’t
trust credit ratings is because of the money that changes hands.
What matters most, obviously, is how much. It makes little
difference whether the amounts are disclosed by the rating
company or by the issuer of the securities as part of its own
disclosures, as long as it’s made public somewhere.  The most dubious penny-stock promoters have to disclose what
they get paid for their opinions. Credit raters can at least be
held to the same standards.  ( Jonathan Weil  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this column:
Jonathan Weil in  New York  at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 