-- Falcone’s Harbinger Capital Lost 47% Last Year on LightSquared Venture Bet
-- B y   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n
-- 2012-02-03T23:05:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/falcone-s-harbinger-capital-lost-47-last-year-on-lightsquared-venture-bet.html
Phil Falcone’s Harbinger Capital
Partners LLC lost 47 percent for investors in his main hedge
fund last year as he was forced to slash the value of his
troubled wireless venture by more than half, according to a
person familiar with the results.  Most of the decline in the Harbinger Capital Partners
Offshore Fund I came from Falcone’s investment in  LightSquared
Inc. (SKYT) , which plans to offer high-speed data service to as many as
260 million people. The Reston, Virginia-based company is
awaiting final clearance from the Federal Communications
Commission as regulators weigh test results that show the
service’s signals disrupt global-positional system equipment
used by cars, tractors, boats and planes.  “The decline was primarily due to a conservative
adjustment in the fund’s holdings of LightSquared, to be
consistent with the results of work done by the fund’s third-
party valuation firm,” Lew Phelps, a spokesman for the New
York-based fund, said in a statement. “The valuation takes into
account uncertainty about the outcome of political issues
related to alleged interference with the GPS system by
LightSquared transmitters,” added Phelps, who confirmed the
fund’s loss.  The 59 percent reduction in the value of the fund’s
LightSquared stake illustrates the precarious nature of the
investment on which Falcone, who is also under investigation by
U.S. regulators, is betting the future of his firm. Harbinger,
which managed $4 billion at the end of last year, put about $3
billion into LightSquared, and the investment accounted for 62
percent of the main fund at the end of May.  Private-Equity Losses  Jonathan Atkin, a San Francisco-based analyst with RBC
Capital Markets LLC, said last month that LightSquared may run
out of money within six months.  LightSquared Chief Executive Officer  Sanjiv Ahuja  said in a
Dec. 9 interview that the company would be adequately funded
through the government’s review period, which he expects will
last until early 2013. The company argues that GPS manufacturers
should have planned to accommodate the company’s use of the
airwaves, and that technical solutions exist to resolve
interference.  The fund’s other losses came from a portfolio of private-
equity investments that tumbled about 31 percent in 2011,
according to the person, who asked not to be identified because
the fund data is private. The biggest holding in the so-called
side-pocket, which Harbinger is in the process of liquidating,
is a 27 percent stake in Ferrous Resources Ltd., an iron-ore
producer in  Brazil  that canceled plans to sell shares to the
public in June 2010 because of volatile equity markets.  Spectrum Brands  Investments in public companies, including a 54 percent
stake in  Spectrum Brands Holdings Inc. (SPB) , a Madison, Wisconsin-
based manufacturer of pet food and batteries, accounted for the
rest of the loss. Spectrum Brands tumbled 12 percent last year.  Harbinger’s losses last year almost matched those by  John
Paulson , the hedge-fund manager who, like Falcone, made his name
by betting that the subprime market would tumble in 2007. One of
Paulson & Co.’s largest funds plunged 51 percent in 2011 as he
wrongly bet on a recovery in bank shares.  In December, the Securities and Exchange Commission told
Falcone it is considering suing him and two other fund
executives over alleged violations of securities laws. As a
result of the potential suit, Falcone said he would suspend
client withdrawals for a second time in three years.  SEC Investigation  The SEC is investigating whether Harbinger gave some
investors preferential treatment by allowing them to withdraw
money while barring others from doing so. Harbinger is also
being investigated by the SEC and the U.S. Attorney’s office
over a $113 million loan Falcone took from one of his funds.  Falcone has denied giving preferential treatment to any
investors.  Falcone, a 1984 graduate of  Harvard University  in
Cambridge,  Massachusetts , started Harbinger in 2001 and became a
billionaire after making a profitable bet on the collapse of the
subprime loan market. Harbinger’s assets mushroomed to $26
billion by June of 2008, only to drop in the wake of the
financial crisis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katherine Burton in New York at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  