-- Fed Said to Seek Offers for More AIG-Linked Mortgage Bonds
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n   a n d   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 2012-02-03T18:36:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/fed-to-seek-offers-aig-tied-mortgage-securities.html
The  Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
is seeking offers for more of the mortgage bonds assumed in the
government rescue of  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  after a
potential buyer approached the central bank, three people with
knowledge of the matter said.  The auction, which may come as soon as next week, may
involve about $6 billion of  debt , said one of the people, who
declined to be identified because the potential transaction is
private. The central bank said it sold $7.01 billion in face
value of the  securities  held by its Maiden Lane II vehicle on
Jan. 19 to Credit Suisse Group AG after being approached with a
bid by  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)   The  New York  Fed ended in June a plan to offload the assets
through a series of auctions, following sales of about $10
billion in face value of mortgage securities. The holdings had
dwindled to about $21 billion when the auctions were halted
after investors and traders blamed them for causing a slump in
prices. Values gained last month following reports on the
offering and its completion.  The last sale as well rising prices “certainly has stirred
interest in a sector that had been sorely lacking it” the
previous quarter,  Chris Flanagan  and Tim Isgro, New York-based
strategists at Bank of America Corp., said in a Jan. 29 report.
At a securitization conference last month, the New York Fed’s
decision to sell the assets and “the strong interest and bids
it received” was a popular topic, they wrote.  Stirring Interest  Jack Gutt , a spokesman for the New York Fed, declined to
comment.  By the day after the last sale, Credit Suisse had already
placed a “significant” portion of the securities with clients,
Steven Vames, a New York-based spokesman for the firm, said in a
telephone interview Jan. 20. The bank was seeking to distribute
the rest, he said, without disclosing the amounts.  The New York Fed started selling the bonds piecemeal after
rejecting a $15.7 billion bid from New York-based AIG for the
entire pool in March. The portfolio includes securities backed
by the types of home loans with some of the highest default
rates, such as so-called subprime, Alt-A and option adjustable-
rate mortgage debt.  Typical prices for the most-senior bonds tied to  Alt-A (BBMDADLQ)  ARMs
tumbled from last year’s high of 68 cents on the dollar in
February to 48 cents in November, before rising to 50 cents last
week, according to Barclays Capital data. Alt-A debt falls
between prime and subprime.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  