-- Bullard Says Fed Bond Purchases Not Needed as U.S. Unemployment Rate Falls
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2012-02-04T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/fed-s-bullard-says-surprising-u-s-data-weakens-case-for-bond-purchases.html
A new round of Federal Reserve bond
purchases isn’t warranted because the U.S. job market and
broader economy are strengthening faster than expected,
according to St. Louis Fed President  James Bullard .  “The economic news and economic data, including today’s
data, has been surprising to the upside,” Bullard said
yesterday, referring to employment gains. “I need to see
significant deterioration in the economy and some threat of
deflation or inflation moving significantly below our inflation
target before” backing more bond buying by the Fed, he said in
a Bloomberg News interview.  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on Jan. 25 the central bank
is considering purchasing more bonds to reduce borrowing costs
and spur growth. Two days later,  New York  Fed President William C. Dudley said the economy will probably slow this year due to
“significant impediments,” and that the central bank “will
continue to do its part in supporting the recovery.”  Chicago Fed President  Charles Evans  said on Feb. 2 that
economists have suggested asset purchases of around $1 trillion,
and he may favor a Fed program “more ambitious than most
numbers being bandied about.”  Bullard, who doesn’t vote on monetary policy this year, was
the first Fed official in 2010 to call for a second round of
asset purchases. Unlike then, the U.S. isn’t at risk of a broad
decline in prices similar to what beset  Japan , he said.  “Inflation is coming down, but at least for now it is
above our inflation target” of 2 percent, Bullard said. “We
will see how things develop. But I am also more bullish on the
economy as a whole. I do think we have momentum coming out of
2011.”  Optimistic Forecast  The U.S.  unemployment rate  dropped to 8.3 percent, the
lowest since February 2009, Labor Department figures showed
yesterday. Payrolls rose by 243,000, exceeding the most
optimistic forecast in a Bloomberg News survey.  Service
industries  grew by the most in a year, according to a separate
report.  U.S. stocks and bond yields rose after the employment
report. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index increased 1.5 percent to
1,344.90 yesterday in New York. The yield on the benchmark 10-
year Treasury note climbed to 1.92 percent from 1.82 percent.  Purchases of Treasuries or mortgage-backed securities are
“much more” effective for influencing inflation than for
reducing unemployment, which can remain high for reasons such as
a mismatch of worker skills with  job openings , Bullard said.  The decline in the jobless rate suggests Fed forecasts for
unemployment at the end of the year are too high, Bullard said.
The fall in unemployment will probably continue thanks to a
decline in weekly jobless claims, he said.  ‘Do Better’  “Surely you could get another half percent during the year
and you might be able to do better than that,” Bullard said.
“Sub-8 percent is a reasonable prediction” for the
unemployment rate at the end of 2012, with a 7 percent rate
possible by the end of next year, he said.  Fed policy makers forecast that the U.S. unemployment rate
will be at 8.2 percent to 8.5 percent at the end of 2012, and
7.4 percent to 8.1 percent late next year.  “The continuing drop in the unemployment rate is
inconsistent with the Fed’s forecast,” said  Dean Maki , chief
U.S. economist at Barclays Capital Inc. “My guess is that they
will revise down their forecast for the unemployment rate,” he
said.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  pledged Jan. 25 to keep
the benchmark interest rate at a record low at least until late
2014. Bullard said he would have dissented from the decision
because he opposes tying policy to a calendar date.  ‘No Ability’  The committee has “almost no ability to forecast that far
in the future,” he said. “My own guess is we will have to move
before” late 2014 and begin removing accommodation, Bullard
said. The FOMC will continue to debate the date over coming
meetings, he said.  “When the economy does change, the economic outlook
changes significantly, then the committee is going to come under
pressure to change the date,” he said.  The Fed, aiming to spur economic growth, pushed down its
target  interest rate  close to zero in December 2008 and has
engaged in two rounds of asset purchases totaling $2.3 trillion.  The 2014 pledge by the FOMC “does send a very pessimistic
signal about the  U.S. economy ,” he said. “The truth is, what
basis do we have to send such a pessimistic signal?”  The Fed on Jan. 25, while making the 2014 pledge, released
federal funds rate forecasts by policy makers for the first
time. The central bank had previously promised to keep borrowing
costs low at least until the middle of 2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  