-- Ex-UBS Trader Adoboli Denied Bail as Trades Prompt U.K. Enforcement Action
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o   a n d   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 2012-02-03T14:39:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/finma-opens-formal-enforcement-investigation-against-ubs.html
Kweku Adoboli, a former  UBS AG (UBSN) 
trader, was denied bail at a London criminal court on the same
day U.K. regulators formalized their enforcement action of the
unauthorized trading for which the bank claims he’s responsible.  The bail application today was Adoboli’s first request to
be released from prison since he was arrested by London police
Sept. 15 for allegedly causing a $2.3 billion loss, the largest
in British history. Adoboli, who holds a Ghanaian passport, was
denied bail in part because of his links to the African country.  The 31-year-old pleaded not guilty to fraud and false
accounting this week and is being held at Wandsworth prison in
southwest London awaiting a trial in early September. The U.K.
and Swiss finance regulators also said in a statement today that
they have begun formal enforcement actions against UBS over the
risk-management processes at its investment bank in London.  “Kweku pleading not guilty was a small disaster for UBS,”
Steven Francis, a regulatory lawyer at Reynolds Porter
Chamberlain LLP in London said in a telephone interview today.
“It may well be that this is a slow-track investigation because
they need to see the outcome of the criminal case.”  The U.K. Financial Services Authority and the Swiss
Financial Market Supervisory Authority, known as Finma, are
investigating the risk controls at UBS’s investment bank that
didn’t prevent the unauthorized trades, the agencies said in
statements today. The regulators hired the accounting firm  KPMG 
in September to handle an independent investigation into events
surrounding the losses.  Sufficient Evidence  The move to a formal enforcement proceeding typically
indicates the regulators have found sufficient evidence of
financial rule violations. UBS said the regulators told them of
their decision and they are cooperating.  “Immediately after the unauthorized trading incident, the
Group Executive Board thoroughly investigated the incident and
implemented measures to better protect our firm from
unauthorized activities,” UBS spokeswoman Jenna Ward said in an
e-mailed statement.  Adoboli’s lawyer, Tim Harris of Bark & Co., declined to
comment on the bail refusal.  The case has led to the departures of Chief Executive
Officer  Oswald Gruebel  and the co-heads of the Swiss bank’s
global equities business. The loss allegedly came from trading
in Standard & Poor’s 500,  DAX (DAX)  and EuroStoxx index futures,
according to the Zurich-based bank.  Unauthorized, Unexplained  While the bank’s internal systems had detected
“unauthorized or unexplained” activity, that wasn’t
“sufficiently” probed and controls weren’t enforced,  Sergio Ermotti , UBS’s current CEO, told employees in a memo on Oct. 5,
when the bank announced resignations of co-heads of global
equities business Francois Gouws and Yassine Bouhara.  UBS also suspended or took disciplinary actions against
eight other employees at the investment bank.  The bank said in a filing with the Securities and Exchange
Commission in the U.S. that it found deficiencies in internal
controls designed to prevent or detect the use of unauthorized
and fictitious transactions. Controls to ensure internal
transactions are valid and accurately recorded also weren’t
effective, the bank said in the filing.  Adoboli worked for the investment bank’s Delta One desk,
which handles trades for clients -- or risks the bank’s own
money -- typically speculating on, or hedging the performance
of, a basket of securities.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in  London  at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net ;
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  