-- Fisher Calls Fed’s Target Rate Forecasts Misguided ‘Guesswork’
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2012-02-03T02:20:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/fisher-calls-fed-s-target-rate-forecasts-misguided-guesswork-.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas
President  Richard Fisher  described policy makers’ forecasts for
the central bank’s main interest rate as little more than
speculation.  “These are not binding commitments,” Fisher said today in
a speech in Austin,  Texas . Fed officials’ projections for the
economy and interest rates are “largely guesswork, especially
looking out over a multiyear period.”  The Fed on Jan. 25 released federal funds rate forecasts by
policy makers for the first time and extended its pledge to keep
rates near zero at least through late 2014. Chairman Ben S. Bernanke today acknowledged improvement in some recent economic
data while cautioning that the economy still faces risks,
including fiscal deficits that in the long-run must be reduced.  Fisher, who doesn’t vote on policy this year, has been
among the most vocal critics of Fed easing, dissenting last year
twice against moves to push down long-term rates and to keep the
benchmark  U.S. interest rate  near zero until at least mid-2013.
He voted five times in 2008 in favor of tighter policy and said
today he opposes the 2014  interest rate  pledge.  “I resisted the notion of a need for a statement
indicating that monetary accommodation be tied to a specific
date, be it in mid-2013, late 2014 or any other,” Fisher said
in a speech to the Headliners Club. “Instead, I feel that the
key should be to calibrate monetary policy according to the
state or condition of the economy.”  ‘Pretty Good’  The Dallas Fed leader told reporters after his speech that
recent U.S. economic reports have been “pretty good,” and that
he opposes additional Fed asset purchases to stimulate growth.  “I don’t see how you could justify it given the status of
the current economy,” he said. “Is it needed? I don’t think
so. Secondly, it compounds the difficulty of an exit when the
right time comes.”  Monetary policy easing may not be effective in bolstering
the labor market, Fisher said.  Still, “accommodation will be in place until the economy
gathers sufficient steam,” he said. “It is slowing gathering
but it is slow.”  In his prepared remarks, Fisher repeated his concern that
monetary policy alone could do little to reduce U.S.
unemployment, saying fiscal and regulatory policies have impeded
 job creation . Texas was one of three states that have regained
jobs lost during the past recession, as well as  North Dakota  and
 Alaska , he said.  ‘Inconvenient Truth’  The Dallas Fed president called the success of Texas in
employment an “inconvenient truth” and the fruit of
“prudent” fiscal and regulatory policy.  Fisher said he was “delighted” by the Fed’s decision last
week to set 2 percent as an inflation objective, while not
setting a specific target for the  unemployment rate . The
decision recognized that factors other than monetary policy
influence the job market, he said.  “Explicitly acknowledging that monetary policy’s impact on
employment is transitory and uncertain is a cardinal event,”
Fisher said. “It signals to the markets that there are limits
to the ultimate job-stoking efficacy of  Federal Reserve 
policy.”  Bernanke said in a press conference last week that the Fed
is considering buying more bonds to stimulate growth. Chicago
Fed President  Charles Evans  told reporters today more asset
purchases may be needed at a scale “more ambitious than most
numbers being bandied about.”  Main Interest Rate  The Fed pushed down its target rate close to zero in
December 2008 and has engaged in two rounds of asset purchases
totaling $2.3 trillion to boost the economy and reduce the
jobless rate that stood at 8.5 percent in December.  “To the extent that inflation is running below 2 percent,
the Federal Reserve may have somewhat greater latitude to pursue
accommodation,” Fisher said. “However, the past few years have
demonstrated, yet again, that allowing inflation to rise by no
means guarantees faster job growth.”  Fisher urged U.S. lawmakers to “get their act together,
stop their shameful politicking, get on with putting their
fiscal and regulatory house in order” to promote economic
growth.  Fisher, 62, has been president of the Dallas Fed since
2005. His district includes Texas, northern  Louisiana  and
southern  New Mexico .  The Dallas Fed and the 11 other regional banks this week
released unprecedented details about their presidents’ personal
wealth. Fisher’s disclosure listed holdings exceeding $20
million, including millions of dollars in municipal bonds and
7,113 acres of land in states including Iowa, Missouri and
Texas.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  