-- Forint May Weaken as Malev Grounding Hits Budget, Equilor Says
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2012-02-03T14:15:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/forint-may-weaken-as-malev-grounding-hits-budget-equilor-says.html
Hungary ’s forint and stocks may
weaken as government obligations to compensate Budapest Airport
for losses tied to the bankruptcy of state-owned airline Malev
Zrt. threaten state finances, Equilor Befektetesi Zrt. said.  Malev, which has debts of 60 billion forint ($270 million),
ceased flying today after the government withdrew financing. Its
demise may force the state to pay about 1.5 billion euros ($2
billion) as a one-off obligation to the airport’s operators,
according to paper published by the Development Ministry in
December, which cited a privatization contract.  The state’s difficulties in paying the compensation “may
result in short-term weakening in the forint,” adding to
pressure as the country struggles to restart talks on a bailout
from the European Union and  International Monetary Fund ,  Akos Kuti , Budapest-based head of research at Equilor, wrote in an e-
mail today, adding that shares may also take a hit.  The forint weakened as much as 0.3 percent before trading
0.3 percent stronger at 2:55 p.m. in Budapest after the U.S.
jobless rate unexpectedly fell to the lowest in three years. It
has strengthened 8.3 percent this year, the most among more than
20 emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The
benchmark BUX stock index retreated as much as 1.2 percent
before rebounding 0.5 percent following the payroll data.  The payment of the compensation fee  “would have critical
consequences for Hungary’s budget targets” and would mean a
“serious financing burden,” the ministry said in its paper on
Malev in December.  “We think investors excluded such an amount from the
equation,” Kuti said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  