-- Americans Get Fired Up by U.K.’s RedHot for Super Bowl: Retail
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 2012-02-03T00:01:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/frank-s-redhot-sauce-spices-up-super-bowl-wings-for-u-k-s-reckitt-retail.html
Americans devouring an estimated 1.25
billion chicken wings at Super Bowl parties this weekend might
find the snack’s spicy kick comes courtesy of a U.K. company --
 Reckitt Benckiser Group Plc (RB/) , maker of Frank’s RedHot Sauce.  Frank’s boosted sales 18 percent last year, thanks to edgy
marketing, new flavors and increased shelf space at retailers
such as Sam’s Club, the warehouse chain owned by Wal-Mart Stores
Inc. Such growth has propelled Frank’s, used on the first-ever
buffalo wings nearly 50 years ago, to become the best-selling
hot sauce in America, toppling longtime champ Tabasco, made by
closely-held McIlhenny of  Louisiana , according to SymphonyIRI.  While making up about 2 percent of the Slough, England-
based company’s total  revenue , Frank’s, along with French’s
mustard, has helped fuel Reckitt Benckiser’s North American food
division. With growth slowing for the company’s bigger household
products brands, such as Vanish stain removers and Finish
dishwasher tablets, Frank’s has stood out from the pack.  “I have a bottle here at my desk,” said  Martin Schulz ,
director of international equities at PNC Capital Advisors LLC
in  Cleveland , which manages $35 billion, including Reckitt
Benckiser  shares . “The hot sauce category has grown faster than
other categories, and there’s a lot of competition out there.”  Bus Tour  Frank’s double-digit growth has led Reckitt Benckiser to
boost its marketing budget, according to brand manager Helia
Santos. This year, the 92-year-old brand is embarking on its
biggest splurge ever, rolling a 30-foot bus across the country.
The “Frank’s to the People” tour will make 150 stops at
colleges, NASCAR auto races, and  restaurant chains  like
Hardee’s, part of CKE Restaurants Inc., whose menu features
Frank’s-branded chicken tenders.  On Feb. 4, the day before the  Super Bowl , the bus will pull
into the parking lot of a Hardee’s restaurant off Interstate I-
70 in Indianapolis, not far from Lucas Oil Stadium, site of this
year’s NFL championship game between the  New York Giants  and  New
England Patriots .  A Frank’s-a-palooza of sorts will commence, with live
music, free samples and prizes including a Lexus GS 350, raffled
off by a local car dealership. Chef  Kevin Roberts , who has
hosted a cable TV show about American football tailgate parties,
will share recipes and chug Frank’s straight from the bottle.  Cheeky Commercials  Frank’s has also unveiled its first national TV ads, Santos
said in an interview. The cheeky commercials feature an elderly
lady shocking more genteel observers (such as  Queen Elizabeth )
by spouting the brand’s tagline:“I put that s--- on
everything!”  The slogan speaks to Frank’s broad appeal. Loyal users,
including Frank’s 125,000 Facebook fans, dab it on everything
from mashed potatoes to popcorn. Schulz, the PNC investor, puts
Frank’s on his lunchtime pizza, while colleague Scott Camp pours
it over shrimp and scallops when cooking dinner at home.  “There are so many kinds of hot sauce so the brand has
done well to build loyalty, market by market,” David Browne,
senior analyst at researcher Mintel Group, said in an interview.
“Hot sauce is a man’s world, and Frank’s is a man’s brand.”  Clingy Sauce  The food blog Chowhound has said Frank’s, a blend of
cayenne peppers, vinegar and garlic, makes a better wing sauce
than Tabasco as it clings to the chicken more readily. That’s
probably why Frank’s was the primary ingredient in the sauce on
the first-ever Buffalo wings, created in 1964 by Teressa
Bellissimo at the Anchor Bar in Buffalo,  New York .  Today, Frank’s graces food sold at Hardee’s, closely-held
Checkers Drive-In Restaurants Inc. and Hard Rock Cafe
International Inc. Buffalo Wild Wings, which sold 6.6 million
wings at its 739 locations during last year’s Super Bowl,
doesn’t use Frank’s in any of its 14 “custom-made” wing
sauces, according to spokeswoman Angie Andresen.  Diners can spread up to eight different kinds of Frank’s
sauce on their food, from original to sweet chili, introduced in
2010. In warehouse clubs like Sam’s and rival Costco Wholesale
Corp., Frank’s is sold by the gallon to restaurant owners,
boosting growth in that channel, Santos said.  Those sales should continue to rise -- the North American
spicy sauce category is expected to grow 6 percent annually over
the next five years, according to Euromonitor. That’s a faster
clip than Reckitt Benckiser’s core categories such as
dishwashing and surface care.  No surprise, then, that Frank’s is spreading beyond the
U.S. In 2009 British retailers such as Tesco Plc and J Sainsbury
Plc started carrying it, and Frank’s Facebook page features
queries from shoppers from  Germany  to the  Philippines  who want
some.  They may have to wait. Santos said only 9 percent of U.S.
households have bought Frank’s in the past year, which leaves
plenty of room to grow in its home market.  “Our challenge is to get people to try it,” Santos, a
native of  Portugal , said. “Once people try it they convert. I
never used hot sauce before I worked here. Now I put Frank’s on
my French fries.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Boyle in London at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  