-- FX Concepts’ John Taylor Says Fed’s Easy Money Policy to Weigh on Dollar
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   S a r a   E i s e n
-- 2012-02-03T19:34:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/fx-concepts-taylor-shorter-on-dollar-than-euro-on-fed-s-low-rate-pledge.html
John Taylor , founder of currency-
hedge fund FX Concepts LLC, said he’s betting against the dollar
after Federal Reserve policy makers extended their pledge to
keep interest rates close to zero and indicated they’re prepared
to make additional asset purchases.  “I am shorter the  U.S. dollar  than I am the euro,” Taylor
said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Inside Track”
with  Erik Schatzker . “We are going to have QE3 at some point
and they stretched the time we are not going to have higher
rates. That was a tremendous hit to the dollar. The dollar was
doing fine until Bernanke came up with that idea.”  Federal Open Market Committee members said last month the
central bank plans to keep its benchmark  interest rate  at almost
zero until at least the end of 2014, extending a prior pledge to
hold rates steady through mid-2013. The Fed purchased $2.3
trillion of debt in two rounds of so-called quantitative easing
known as QE1 and QE2 as it sought to support the world’s biggest
economy. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said Jan. 25 that he’s
considering another program of debt purchases if economic growth
proves slower than desired.  “Everybody in the market is sure that whenever the dollar
looks strong, Bernanke will come up with another idea to make it
weak,” said Taylor, who manages about $4.5 billion in assets.  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners, dropped today even after the Labor Department
said  unemployment rate  fell and payrolls increased in January.
The index fell 0.1 percent to 78.893 at 2:30 p.m. in New York.  Japanese Intervention  Taylor said on Jan. 24 at a Bloomberg Link conference in
New York that the euro will probably trade at parity with the
dollar by the end of the year.  The euro rose 0.1 percent to
$1.3161.  The shared currency has dropped 3.5 percent versus the
dollar in the last year as the region’s leaders bailed out
Portugal after providing rescue packages in 2010 for Ireland and
Greece and attempted to rein in rising sovereign-debt yields.  The dollar will weaken against the Japanese yen as well,
even if it is temporarily boosted by dollar purchases from the
 Bank of Japan , said Taylor, who is betting on gains in the
currencies of nations such as Turkey, Australia and  South
Africa .  “The dollar will be under pressure against the yen, but
the Bank of  Japan  is waiting to intervene,” said Taylor, who is
based in New York. “At 75 and change, less than a percent from
where than we are now, the Bank of Japan will come in and punish
us again. But all good traders won’t get punished -- they will
wait until the Bank of Japan pushes the dollar way up against
the yen and then they’ll sell it again.”  The yen fell 0.4 percent to 76.55 per dollar. It
strengthened to 76.03 two days ago, approaching the post-World
War II record of 75.35 set on Oct. 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in  New York  at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net ;
Sara Eisen in New York at 
 seisen2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  