-- Genworth Says Vancouver, Toronto Homes May See Correction
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2012-02-03T17:05:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/genworth-says-vancouver-toronto-homes-may-see-correction-1-.html
High-end housing markets in Toronto
and  Vancouver  may see corrections, said Stuart Levings, chief
risk officer at  Genworth MI Canada Inc. (MIC) , a mortgage insurer.  “We do believe the market is somewhat overvalued in
certain regions, particularly at the high-end segments of
Vancouver and Toronto,” Levings said today on a conference call
to discuss quarterly results. “We expect these segments may see
some correction over the next 12 to 18 months.”  Genworth said yesterday fourth-quarter profit fell 7
percent to C$79 million ($79.4 million), or 80 cents a share,
from C$85 million, or 80 cents in the year-earlier period.  Canadian housing demand has softened, and  low interest
rates  have helped to partially offset decreasing affordability,
according to the Oakville, Ontario-based insurer.  Demand will remain “subdued” this year, and mortgage
originations will be little changed or “slightly down” in
2012, Levings said.  Home prices  will be little changed in the
next 12 to 18 months, followed by marginal growth after that, he
said.  “We do not see an abrupt correction, but more of a soft
landing, which bodes well for the long-term health of the market
as a whole,” Levings said.  Genworth’s chief executive officer Brian Hurley also said
that the company won’t be affected by government limits on the
amount of mortgage insurance that can be provided.  “We have lots of room for new business,” Hurley said.
“Capacity will not be an issue for us for this year, or going
into 2013.”  Canada Mortgage & Housing Corp. said Jan. 31 it is
rationing  mortgage insurance  for lenders as the government’s
housing agency approaches the legal limit for its ability to
backstop loans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  