-- Genworth Adds Risk of Rate Rise by Ending $950 Million Hedge
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2012-02-03T21:45:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/genworth-financial-adds-risk-of-higher-rates-by-ending-950-million-hedge.html
Genworth Financial Inc. (GNW) , the mortgage
guarantor and life insurer, placed a derivative bet in the
fourth quarter that added almost $1 billion to investments and
increased the risk of collateral calls if  interest rates  rise.  The company settled profitable hedging contracts and
replaced them with new swaps featuring lower strike levels,
Richmond, Virginia-based Genworth said today. The firm said it
collected $950 million from counterparties and invested the
funds in holdings expected to generate about $20 million a year.  “What we did in effect was say, ‘Rates have come down
dramatically, let’s lock in that gain today,’” Ronald Joelson,
Genworth’s chief investment officer, said in a conference call
with analysts. “The give-up is, you recognize that under the
higher-rate scenarios that could ensue in the future, that we
would have to post collateral.”  Genworth tapped its hedging program for cash as the
company’s unprofitable U.S. mortgage-insurance business hurt
results. The  Federal Reserve  has kept interest rates near zero,
and said last week that economic conditions may warrant
“exceptionally low levels” for rates through later 2014. The
U.S.  unemployment rate  dropped to the lowest since February
2009, Labor Department figures showed today, casting doubt on
the Fed’s plan to keep rates low.  “The risk is they get burned by higher interest rates,”
said Edward Shields, an analyst at Sandler O’Neill & Partners
LP. Genworth “may be making a bet on having such an improved
capital position long-term from now that they can simply unwind
the swaps at that point if it goes against them materially.”
Shields has a “buy” rating and $9 price target on Genworth.  Shares Advance  Genworth posted the biggest gain in the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index today after swinging to a fourth-quarter profit on
fewer claims tied to delinquent borrowers. It rose 14 percent to
$9.17 at 4:15 p.m. in  New York . The company, which fell 50
percent last year, has gained 40 percent since Dec. 31.  Genworth uses swaps to protect its insurance business from
rate declines. Derivative hedges have produced gains for
companies including MetLife Inc., the biggest U.S. life insurer,
as bond yields slumped over the last year. Genworth held more
than $12 billion of interest-rate swaps at the end of September,
according to the company’s third-quarter report.  “We have to be very careful that in higher interest-rate
environments we also have sufficient collateral to post,”
Joelson said. “We are reinvesting in very high-quality assets
that would be eligible for collateral.”  Net income  in the three months ended Dec. 31 was $107
million, or 22 cents a share, compared with a loss of $161
million, or 33 cents, a year earlier, Genworth said late
yesterday. The U.S. mortgage-insurance segment’s loss narrowed
to $94 million in the period from $352 million a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  