-- Gilead Gains on Positive Data From Experimental Hepatitis C Drug
-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2012-02-03T21:09:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/gilead-gains-on-positive-data-from-experimental-hepatitis-c-drug.html
Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD) , the drugmaker
that  acquired  Pharmasset Inc. last month for its experimental
hepatitis C treatments, gained the most in three years after one
of the medicines produced positive clinical trial results.  Gilead rose 11 percent to $54.70 at the close of trading in
New York, its biggest single-day gain since Oct. 13, 2008. The
shares of the  Foster City , California-based drugmaker have
increased 41 percent in the last 12 months.  Patients with genotype 1 hepatitis C -- the most common in
North America -- had no detectable signs of the virus after four
weeks on the drug, PSI-7977, Norbert Bischofberger, Gilead’s
chief scientific officer, said yesterday on a conference call
with analysts and investors. An earlier study of the medicine,
acquired in the $10.8 billion Pharmasset purchase, cured all
patients with genotype 2 and 3.  Drugmakers including Gilead, Abbott Laboratories,  Merck &
Co. , Vertex Pharmaceuticals Inc. and  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY) ,
are striving to develop a new class of oral cures for hepatitis
C to replace older drugs that require injections. Bristol-Myers
last month agreed to spend $2.5 billion to buy  Inhibitex Inc. (INHX) 
for its experimental hepatitis C therapies.  “It looks like Gilead will race ahead and continue to lead
because its drug 7977 continues to support potential 100 percent
cure rates,” Michael Yee, an analyst with RBC Capital Markets
in  San Francisco , said in an interview yesterday. “The data
disclosed in genotype 1, an important population for which there
was no good data yet, continues to show they can support a
multibillion-dollar drug franchise with 7977.”  The drug was tested in combination with ribavirin, a
medication currently used in treating the disease. The therapy
was given to patients who hadn’t taken other drugs and those
whose illness wasn’t helped by other treatments.  The company will present further data on the clinical trial
at an infectious diseases conference next month in  Seattle .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in San Francisco at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  