-- Gingrich Attacks Will Help Romney and Hurt Obama: Jonathan Alter
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   A l t e r
-- 2012-02-03T00:00:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/gingrich-attacks-help-romney-and-hurt-obama-commentary-by-jonathan-alter.html
Newt Gingrich  was so bitter after his
Florida loss that he neither called Mitt Romney to concede nor
congratulated him in his primary-night speech. Now he’s hell-
bent on chasing Romney around the U.S. for the next seven months
making his life miserable. Who does this help? I say Romney.  The competition doesn’t “prepare” Romney for the fall, as
he said when declaring victory in Florida. But Gingrich’s
presence in the race does have the perverse effect of making
Romney seem more rational and centrist, which will help a lot in
the general election.  Conventional wisdom holds that a long and brutal Republican
primary campaign can only benefit  Barack Obama , if for no other
reason than that it gives Romney more chances to make another
dumb gaffe, like saying “I’m not concerned about the very
poor.” Obama backers smile at the prospect of Gingrich
crisscrossing the country exacting revenge for  Florida .  The cover of the  New Yorker  this week shows a happy
president tuning into football only to find he’s watching Romney
and Gingrich grapple on the gridiron. Because Democrats aren’t
fortunate enough to have Gingrich as the doomed Republican
nominee (“I did not think I had lived a good enough life” for
that, Barney Frank joked last fall), they’ll settle for the
human time bomb blowing more holes in the listing hull of the
USS Romney.  Road Rage  This scenario makes sense on the surface. As the Republican
establishment moves toward what Steve Schmidt, who was  John McCain ’s chief strategist in 2008,  calls  “a declaration of war
on Newt Gingrich,” the damage to the Republican brand sustained
in 2011 will worsen. The clown car of  Donald Trump ,  Michele Bachmann ,  Herman Cain  and  Rick Perry  is now a nasty two-car
collision with road rage all around.  The Florida primary was astoundingly negative. Negative ads
made up a mind-blowing 92 percent of campaign commercials in
Florida, according to Kantar Media’s Campaign Media Analysis
Group. Mostly this was Romney and his posse of plutocrats
showing the power of $15 million in ad buys to squash anyone
like a bug. Gingrich was outspent in Florida by nearly 5-to-1,
but he and his allies still managed to fling $3.7 million in mud
pies at Romney.  If this were to continue in more than 40 other primary
states, it would wreak havoc on the party. But it won’t. That’s
because the decision on taking that path belongs not to Gingrich
but to  Sheldon Adelson , the billionaire whose family super-PAC
has heavily financed Gingrich’s TV attacks on Romney. As the
British might say: No Shelly, no telly.  The Romney team needn’t worry. Adelson is one of the
richest men in the world, but the chances of his spending $100
million to maim Romney nationwide aren’t good. If he were that
strongly committed to Gingrich, he would have ponied up much
more in Florida.  Instead, Gingrich’s primary trajectory will probably
resemble that of  Jerry Brown , who won a string of late primaries
against  Jimmy Carter  in 1976 and harassed  Bill Clinton  for
months in 1992. (Brown even used a debate to accuse Clinton of
funneling money to his wife’s law firm.) In each case, Brown’s
challenge from the left made the presumptive Democratic nominee
seem more stable and moderate, which helped Carter and later
Clinton to victory in November.  Gingrich is now poised to do the same to Romney from the
right. His message is that he’s the true Tea Party conservative
and Romney is a “Massachusetts moderate.”  Look Again  This is untrue on both counts. As  Rick Santorum  points out,
Gingrich joined with Democratic Representative Nancy Pelosi on
 climate change , backed an individual mandate for health
insurance, and called Representative Paul Ryan’s plan to cut
Medicare and education spending “right-wing social
engineering.” Some conservative.  Romney, for his part, seems to have terminated his moderate
twin sometime around 2007. He has embraced the Ryan plan,
campaigned with Kansas Secretary of State Kris Kobach (who has
led the drafting of restrictive laws, including those in Arizona
and  Alabama , against illegal immigration), backed even deeper
tax cuts for the rich and left himself no wiggle room on
abortion. Some moderate.  The minute Romney nails down the nomination, of course,
he’ll be scampering for the middle, which is where the votes
are. The advantage of the Gingrich challenge, from the Romney
perspective, is that it will make that pivot more convincing.
Because of Gingrich, the Romney general election message will be
imprinted on the mind of the electorate much earlier than it
would have been otherwise.  “Massachusetts moderate” may be an epithet in Republican
primaries, but it’s a compliment in the general election, which
will be determined by independents with no sympathy for the  Tea
Party . Obama won independents in 2008 by eight points, and
Democrats lost them in the 2010 midterms by eight points. To get
enough of them back to prevail, the president will have to do
more than depict Romney as an out-of-touch one-percenter with
bank accounts in the Cayman Islands. He’ll need to lash Romney
to the conservative policy agenda that created few jobs and
helped drive the economy off the cliff.  That won’t be easy. Even as Romney is locked into very
conservative positions, much of the news media insists on
describing him as the moderate in the race. In fact, the center
of gravity in the  Republican Party  has shifted so far to the
right that  Ronald Reagan ’s policies (including multiple tax
increases) would today be considered almost liberal.  Mitt Romney  is a flawed candidate with no common touch. But
the weak economy still gives him a strong chance if he can find
the median strip of American politics. Newt Gingrich wants to
push him there, inadvertently helping the man he despises to
become president.  (Jonathan Alter is a Bloomberg View columnist and the
author of “The Promise: President Obama, Year One.” The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Alter at  alterjonathan@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net . 