-- Glencore Xstrata Plan May Need a Year for Approvals, Lawyer Says
-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 2012-02-03T10:08:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/glencore-xstrata-plan-may-need-a-year-for-approvals-lawyer-says.html
Glencore International Plc (GLEN) , the
world’s largest listed commodities supplier, may take six months
to a year securing antitrust approvals around the world if it
makes a bid to merge with  Xstrata Plc (XTA) , according to Norton Rose
LLP lawyer Marc Waha.  The deal may need approvals from countries where it has
assets or customers including  Japan ,  South Korea , Canada,
Australia and Brazil, as well as the U.S., the European Union,
and  China , Waha, an antitrust specialist and partner with Norton
Rose in  Hong Kong , said by phone today. The process may generate
$15 million in legal fees, he said.  Glencore made an approach about an all-share offer for “a
merger of equals,” Xstrata said in a statement to the London
stock exchange yesterday. Glencore holds 34 percent of Xstrata
and the rest of the company is valued at 21.9 billion pounds
($35 billion) based on the Feb. 1 closing price. Glencore, based
in Baar, Switzerland, said in a statement there’s no certainty
of an offer.  Officials from resource-importing nations including Japan
and China are likely to seek supply and price commitments in
return for an approval, Waha said.  “My hunch is that it will go through as long as the
parties are ready to pay the commercial price,” he said.  The merger of Russia’s OAO  Uralkali (URKA)  and OAO Silvinit last
year to create a single producer of potash in the country led to
the companies offering to make commitments on volumes and prices
to China before getting approval, Waha said. Seagate
Technologies LLC also had to make concessions on local
investment and corporate policy when buying Samsung Electronics
Co.’s hard-disc drive business, he said.  In the process of trying to win approval, Glencore and
Xstrata may weaken their bargaining position with Asian buyers
of commodities, Waha said.  “You are saying I will keep  Asia ’s share in the total
supply or maintain the same conditions, you are opening up
yourself to a lot of reviews and perhaps lawsuits,” Waha said.
“You are putting yourself in a weaker position when you
negotiate with your customers and that’s exactly what the
authorities want to achieve.”  London-based Linklaters LLP are advising Glencore and
London-based Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP are representing
Xstrata.  Norton Rose  is not advising either.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  