-- Glencore May Need to Offer 25.3 Billion Pounds for Xstrata
-- B y   R e b e c c a   K e e n a n   a n d   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2012-02-03T18:24:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/glencore-may-need-to-offer-40b-to-win-xstrata.html
Glencore International Plc (GLEN) , the
commodities trader in talks to combine with  Xstrata Plc (XTA) , may
need to offer as many as three of its shares for each one in the
coal and copper producer to strike a deal.  Glencore, which already holds  34 percent  of Zug,
Switzerland-based Xstrata, may offer as much 25.3 billion pounds
($40 billion) of its stock for the rest. That’s based on the
companies’  London  close on Feb. 1, the day before Xstrata
disclosed the approach, and the 23 percent average premium paid
in 2011 mining deals, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
An Xstrata share is currently valued  at about  2.66 in Glencore.  A Glencore-Xstrata combination would create an $82 billion
rival to BHP Billiton Ltd. in the industry’s largest deal. It
would be the world’s biggest producer of zinc, lead and thermal
coal and a top-five producer of copper and nickel, according to
UBS AG. Glencore may generate $1 billion in savings from the
deal, allowing it to pay a 20 percent premium, based on share
prices prior to Feb. 1, UBS said today.  “The current ratio implies a 14 percent premium, but
whether this is palatable for Xstrata shareholders remains to be
seen,” London-based Liberum analysts Ash Lazenby, Dominic
O’Kane and  Richard Knights  said in a report. “Our sense is that
the current ratio appears about correct and we believe that a
deal could be struck in the 2.7 to 2.8 range.”  Merger of Equals  Still, under a so-called merger of equals where both sets
of shareholders end up controlling 50 percent of the combined
group,  Glencore (GLEN)  would need to offer 3.63 of its shares for each
of Xstrata’s, Sylvain Brunet, an analyst at Exane BNP Paribas,
said today in a report.  “A nil-premium merger would make no sense for Xstrata’s
shareholders, given the limited synergies involved,” Paris-
based Brunet said. A 39 percent premium would need to be offered
to result in equal ownership, he said. “A share deal with
Xstrata would require a hefty premium.”  The companies, which started their talks before Christmas,
are discussing a merger of equals through a “scheme of
arrangement,” according to two people with knowledge of the
negotiations. That would prevent Glencore from voting the 34
percent stake it already owns in Xstrata when the plan is put to
shareholders for approval. It also gives Xstrata holders greater
leverage to demand better terms.  A Glencore spokesman declined to comment.  Offer Rules  A merger would give Glencore coal, copper and nickel mines
from  Africa  to  Asia . Glencore, located two miles away from
Xstrata in Baar, is required to announce a firm intention to
make an offer by 5 p.m. on March 1 under U.K. takeover rules,
Xstrata said yesterday.  Xstrata  rose  9.9 percent yesterday and 4.3 percent today,
closing at 1,283 pence in London for a value of 38 billion
pounds. Glencore  advanced  4.5 percent to 482.55 pence.  “The deal has to be initiated by Glencore and the premium
paid would have to be one that Xstrata’s shareholders cannot
refuse,” BNP Paribas’s Brunet said. “Any premium greater than
30 percent to yesterday’s close would leave Glencore below the
control level; this might prove a deal-breaker.”  Mining takeovers are accelerating as companies struggle to
replace depleting deposits and  China ’s industrial growth stokes
metals demand for construction, cars and appliances. Glencore
made an approach regarding an all-share merger of equals,
Xstrata said yesterday. Glencore said there’s no certainty of an
offer.  Global mining deals swelled to $98 billion last year, the
highest level since 2007, from $76 billion in 2010, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The average ratio of Glencore to
Xstrata shares was 2.44 in the six months before this week’s
announcement, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rebecca Keenan in  Hong Kong  at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net ;
 Jesse Riseborough  in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net ;
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net . 