-- Commissioner Roger Goodell Says NFL Gained Momentum From Labor, TV Deals
-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 2012-02-03T19:11:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/goodell-says-nfl-network-will-expand-to-13-primetime-games-next-season.html
National Football League Commissioner
 Roger Goodell  said the NFL’s new labor deal and television
agreements give the U.S.’s most popular sports league momentum
as it addresses everything from concussions to putting a team in
 Los Angeles  to increasing the number of games on its television
network.  “With our long-term labor agreement, television agreements
and another outstanding season in the bank, we have a great deal
of momentum,” Goodell told reporters today at his annual news
conference in advance of the league’s  Super Bowl  title game.
“We are proud of that, but we are not done yet. It is simply a
foundation.”  Goodell said the NFL will expand the slate of live games
offered on its television network to 13 from eight, with
Thursday night telecasts starting in next season’s second week.
The move means all 32 teams will play at least one game in
primetime next season.  The NFL Network opened this season with the widest
distribution since it started airing live games in 2006. It
attracted a record average of 6.2 million viewers to its eight
games this season, an audience about twice as large as in its
inaugural season.  The network offers some of television’s most valuable
content, as measured by fees cable or satellite companies pay
for distribution rights, according to a report by  Anthony
DiClemente , an analyst with Barclays Capital Inc. The network
gets about 73 cents a subscriber, making it the fourth-most
expensive in the U.S., ahead of  Fox News ’ 70 cents and behind
the Disney Channel’s 91 cents. ESPN gets the most, with $4.40
and TNT the second most at $1.03, DiClemente wrote, citing data
from Barclays and SNL Kagan.  Los Angeles Prospects  Goodell also said the NFL hasn’t discussed expanding the
number of franchises beyond 32 as a way to get a team in Los
Angeles, where developers are working on two competing stadium
plans. He said it was in the league’s best interest to keep
teams in their existing markets.  The NFL will continue working to prevent concussions and
make the game less dangerous for players, including expanding
the use of television replay to help doctors, Goodell said.  “We will always make sure player health and safety is our
No. 1 priority in the NFL,” Goodell said. “We’re going to make
sure we understand all there is about brain injuries and brain
disease and make sure we’re being responsible leaders.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in New York at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  