-- Google Told to Pause Privacy Changes in EU Over French Check
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-02-03T17:30:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/google-told-to-pause-privacy-changes-in-eu-during-french-probe.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) , owner of the world’s
most-popular search engine, was asked to “pause” changes to
its privacy policy in  Europe  during an examination by  France ’s
data-protection agency.  France’s  National Commission for Computing and Civil
Liberties , known as CNIL, will “check the possible consequences
for the protection of the personal data” of Europeans that may
come with Google’s planned changes, said Jacob Kohnstamm, the
chairman of the Article 29 Working Party, a group of European
Union data-protection regulators.  Google said last week that it will combine more than 60
privacy policies covering most of its products, including
Android software for mobile phones, to create a “beautifully
simple, intuitive user experience.” The changes are due to take
effect on March 1 and won’t be delayed by the CNIL review, the
company said today.  “We call for a pause in the interests of ensuring that
there can be no misunderstanding about Google’s commitments to
information rights of their users and EU citizens until we have
completed our analysis,” said Kohnstamm in a letter to Google
Chief Executive Officer  Larry Page  dated yesterday. CNIL will
act on behalf of the other EU privacy agencies, he said.  Google doesn’t plan to delay the changes to its privacy
policy, said Anthony House, a spokesman for Google. European
privacy regulators didn’t raise any “substantial concerns”
when the company informed them of the changes prior to last
month’s  announcement . Data protection regulators in Europe can’t
require Google to pause its policy changes, he said.  ‘Won’t Be Pausing’  “We have done the largest communication to users in our
history and to delay would cause significant confusion, so no,
we won’t be pausing,” House said in a telephone interview.  Google isn’t changing users’ existing privacy settings or
collecting any new or additional data about them, the company’s
Global Privacy Counsel Peter Fleischer told the Article 29 group
in a letter published on Google’s  blog . For example, the changes
would allow Google to combine information from YouTube with
 Google search  so it could recommend YouTube videos based on a
user’s search history, he said.  European Union Justice Commissioner  Viviane Reding 
announced an overhaul of the region’s data protection rules last
week to give privacy watchdogs more powers to take binding
decisions and impose fines on companies. Reding said today it
was “good to see that the Article 29 Working Party” was acting
on Google’s privacy policy.  “We need a clear and strong application” of EU data
protection rules, she said in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  