-- Google Sponsors Conservative Conference Co-Hosted by Tea Party
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-02-03T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/google-sponsoring-conservative-political-conference-co-hosted-by-tea-party.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) , whose chairman has
served as an adviser to President  Barack Obama , is a sponsor of
this month’s Conservative Political Action Conference, co-hosted
by the  Tea Party .  Google is one of  nine main sponsors , alongside the National
Rifle Association and the Heritage Foundation, according to the
conference’s website. Republican presidential candidates Mitt Romney and Newt Gingrich are slated to speak at the three-day
event, which starts in Washington on Feb. 9. Google is the only
business listed among the primary sponsors.  The company says it will have a presence at both Republican
and Democratic events during this year’s election season,
including each party’s convention. Google also had a role in the
Iowa caucus last month. The CPAC event was attractive because
half the attendees are under 25 and heavy users of technology,
Google said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  “This event is a great opportunity for us to showcase
Google.com/elections and tools like Google+, which we hope will
be used by every candidate and campaign,” the  Mountain View ,
California-based company said.  The event features speakers on the other side of the
political aisle from Obama, who is running for re-election this
year. Google Chairman Eric Schmidt, then the company’s chief
executive officer, served as an economic adviser to Obama in
2008 and urged lawmakers to approve the president’s jobs bill
last year. Google’s workforce is the  third-biggest  corporate
source of Obama’s campaign cash, according to the Center for
Responsive Politics.  More Lobbying  Google has played a bigger role in Washington politics over
the past two years. The company doubled its lobbying spending
and expanded its political action committee, which is used to
give donations to candidates. Google, the world’s most popular
search engine, faces scrutiny from federal regulators and U.S.
lawmakers over its market power and handling of users’ privacy.  The company backed an Internet protest against Hollywood-
backed anti-piracy bills in Congress last month that ultimately
helped derail the legislation.  CPAC is hosted by the American Conservative Union, an
organization founded in 1964, following  the defeat  of  Barry Goldwater  by President  Lyndon Johnson . The group has put on CPAC
in  Washington  since 1973.  “We’re planning hangouts with top Republicans and well
respected conservative journalists at CPAC,” Google said,
referring to its Hangout feature on its Google+ social network,
which lets people host live video chats.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  