-- Greece Talks Enter ‘Final Phase’ on 2nd Bailout
-- B y   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2012-02-03T23:30:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/greece-talks-enter-final-phase-on-2nd-bailout.html
Greek talks with international
creditors in a seven-month effort to wrap up a second bailout
will continue today after negotiations overnight failed to
clinch an agreement, with the country’s stability hanging in the
balance.  “After 12 hours of tough talks, we solved a lot of
issues,” Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos told
reporters in  Athens . “There are still open issues.” He said
talks will resume later today.  A plan that’s been in the works since July may emerge from
the talks between international monitors and Greek officials,
which are running in parallel with discussions among caretaker
Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos ’s coalition members and Greece’s
government and its creditors.  The discussions have led to tussles among European central
bankers and political leaders. The rescue blueprint includes a
loss of more than 70 percent for bondholders in a voluntary debt
exchange and loans that will probably exceed the 130 billion
euros ($171 billion) now on the table.  Open questions involve how much more aid Greece needs, how
much more austerity is required, and how to involve the  European
Central Bank  in the debt swap. Facing a 14.5 billion-euro bond
payment on March 20 and general elections as soon as April,
Papademos must heed calls for tighter austerity to complete the
talks on a second aid package in time.  Final Phase  “We are in the final phase of this very critical process
to shape a new financing program for Greece and to complete the
loan agreement which will lighten the burden of public debt and
ensure funding for years to come,” Papademos said in a
statement yesterday in Athens. The plan will help “restore
fiscal stability, improve competitiveness, revive the economy
and increase employment.”  The ECB is considering using its bond holdings to bolster
Greece’s next rescue program and support efforts to contain the
sovereign debt crisis, three euro-region officials said. The ECB
has purchased 219 billion euros of debt-strapped nations’ bonds
since 2010 and between 36 billion euros and 55 billion euros are
invested in Greek sovereign debt, according to estimates by
 Barclays Capital  and UBS AG.  The euro was little changed against the dollar at $1.3146
at 4:42 p.m. yesterday in  New York . The yield on Germany’s
benchmark 10-year bond rose 8 basis points to 1.93 percent,
while the yield on Greek 10-year bond fell 18 basis points to
34.19 percent.  More Funds  Venizelos was closeted in meetings most of yesterday with
members of the so-called troika -- the European Commission, the
ECB and the  International Monetary Fund  -- over what the country
has to do to receive more funds. Papademos is set to meet with
the leaders of the three political parties backing him to
discuss the measures once talks with creditors wrap up.  Debate has raged among Greek officials and politicians over
issues ranging from how the Greek state will recapitalize the
country’s banks once the debt writedown is completed to state
spending cuts and labor reforms that may reduce wages for
private-sector employees.  Underlining the complexity of the task for Papademos,
representatives of Greek employers and the country’s biggest
private sector union yesterday called on Papademos to resist
pressure to cut the national minimum wage and holiday allowances.  Greece has lagged behind budget targets set when it won an
initial, taxpayer-funded rescue of 110 billion euros in May 2010,
prompting euro-area threats to cut off aid and hastening a
German push to make bondholders contribute. The country is in
its fifth year of recession, with a  budget deficit  still close
to 10 percent of GDP and unemployment of around 18 percent.  ‘Bottomless Pit’  “We can’t pay into a bottomless pit,” German Finance
Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said on Feb. 2. “Greece needs a new
program, there’s no question about that, but Greece must create
the conditions for it.”  The finance ministers of the AAA-rated euro countries --
Germany, Luxembourg, the Netherlands and  Finland  -- met
yesterday in Berlin to discuss options.  They didn’t discuss a higher public-sector contribution to
Greece, reflecting reluctance to place bigger burdens on their
taxpayers, said a person familiar with the talks.  Papademos’s spokesman, Pantelis Kapsis, denied news reports
yesterday that the leader would resign if leaders of the parties
backing his interim government refused to agree to additional
conditions for new financing.  Debt Concerns  Greece remains in intensive care more than two years after
triggering  Europe ’s debt crisis. Even after a second bailout, it
may be saddled with too much debt, too little growth and too
large a budget hole to do without even more money that euro
nations led by  Germany  are increasingly reluctant to offer.  The lead negotiators of the creditors’ steering committee
working on a debt accord with Greece,  Charles Dallara , managing
director of the International Institute of Finance, and  Jean Lemierre , a senior adviser to the chairman of BNP Paribas SA,
will return to Athens this weekend to continue talks, IIF
spokesman  Frank Vogl  said in an e-mail.  The group, based in  Washington , has more than 450 financial
firms as members and is representing private creditors in the
talks. Deutsche Bank AG Chief Executive Officer  Josef Ackermann ,
the chairman of the group, may also travel to the Greek capital
this weekend for talks over the swap involving Greek debt with a
face value of about 200 billion euros.  Those talks are happening in parallel with those with the
troika, Venizelos said “but that’s now the easiest part of the
process.”  The minister said he will brief euro area finance ministers
by phone later today on the status of the talks and that a
meeting of the ministers will be held on Feb. 8.  Bond Swap  Creditors are prepared to accept an average coupon of as
low as 3.6 percent on new 30-year bonds in the exchange, said a
person familiar with the talks, who declined to be identified
because a final deal hasn’t been struck yet. The aim is to cut
the debt load to 120 percent of gross domestic product by 2020
from 162 percent in 2011. The alternative is an uncontrolled
default that may lead to deeper losses, the collapse of  Greece ’s
financial system and ripple effects throughout Europe.  More austerity risks triggering a “social explosion,”
Hieronymos II, the head of Greece’s Orthodox Church, said in a
statement posted on the website of the  Archdiocese of Athens .  “We are being asked to take even larger doses of a
medicine that has proven to be deadly and to undertake
commitments that do not solve the problem, but only temporarily
postpone the foretold death of our economy,” the Archbishop
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  