-- Greece Talks Enter ‘Final Phase’ on Second Bailout to Secure Place in Euro
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s   a n d   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 2012-02-03T16:28:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/greece-talks-enter-final-phase-on-second-bailout-to-secure-place-in-euro.html
Greece  may conclude a seven-month
effort to wrap up its second bailout in the coming days with the
country’s stability hanging in the balance.  A plan that’s been in the works since July may emerge from
parallel talks among caretaker Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos ’s
coalition members; international monitors and Greek officials;
and Greece’s government and its creditors, as well as tussles
involving European central bankers and political leaders.  “We are in the final phase of this very critical process
to shape a new financing program for Greece and to complete the
loan agreement which will lighten the burden of public debt and
ensure funding for years to come,” Papademos said in a
statement today in  Athens . The plan will help “restore fiscal
stability, improve competitiveness, revive the economy and
increase employment.”  The rescue blueprint includes a loss of more than 70
percent for bondholders in a voluntary debt exchange and loans
likely to exceed the 130 billion euros ($171 billion) now on the
table. Open questions involve how much more aid Greece needs,
how much more austerity is required, and how to involve the
 European Central Bank  in the debt swap.  The euro is headed for a weekly decline against all of its
16 major peers. It rose 0.3 percent to $1.3110 at 4:10 p.m. in
 London . The yield on Germany’s benchmark 10-year bond rose 7
basis points to 1.92 percent, while the yield on Italian 10-year
bonds climbed 8 basis points to 5.68 percent.  Debt Concerns  Greece remains in intensive care more than two years after
triggering  Europe ’s debt crisis. Even after a second bailout, it
may be saddled with too much debt, too little growth and too
large a budget hole to do without even more money that euro
nations led by Germany are increasingly reluctant to offer.  “Greece is in deep trouble,”  Holger Schmieding  of
Berenberg Bank in London said in a Jan. 30 report. “The current
Greek adjustment program is failing. Excessive austerity, a lack
of supply-side reforms, administrative incompetence and
political deadlock have pushed the Greek economy into an
apparent death spiral. More of the same will not work.”  As Greek officials negotiate with representatives of the
so-called troika -- the European Commission, the ECB and the
 International Monetary Fund  -- Deutsche Bank AG Chief Executive
Officer  Josef Ackermann  may travel to Athens this weekend for
talks over the swap involving Greek debt with a face value of
about 200 billion euros.  Bond Swap  Creditors are prepared to accept an average coupon of as
low as 3.6 percent on new 30-year bonds in the exchange, said a
person familiar with the talks, who declined to be identified
because a final deal hasn’t been struck yet. The aim is to cut
the debt load to 120 percent of gross domestic product by 2020
from 162 percent in 2011. The alternative is an uncontrolled
default that may lead to deeper losses, the collapse of its
financial system and ripple effects throughout Europe.  An agreement could be reached “in the coming weeks, maybe
days,” Ackermann, chairman of the  Institute of International
Finance , said yesterday. The group, based in  Washington , has
more than 450 financial firms as members and is representing
private creditors in the talks.  Meantime, the finance ministers of the AAA rated euro
countries --  Germany , Luxembourg, the Netherlands and  Finland  --
met today in Berlin to discuss options.  They didn’t discuss a higher public-sector contribution to
a second aid program for Greece today, reflecting reluctance to
place bigger burdens on their taxpayers, said a person familiar
with the talks.  ‘Bottomless Pit’  “We can’t pay into a bottomless pit,” German Finance
Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said yesterday. “Greece needs a new
program, there’s no question about that, but Greece must create
the conditions for it.”  Greece has lagged behind budget targets set when it won an
initial, taxpayer-funded rescue of 110 billion euros in May
2010, prompting euro-area threats to cut off aid and hastening a
German push to make bondholders contribute. The country is in
its fifth year of recession, with a  budget deficit  still close
to 10 percent of GDP and unemployment of around 18 percent.  Facing a 14.5 billion-euro bond payment on March 20 and
general elections as soon as April, Papademos must heed familiar
calls by the euro area and the IMF for tighter austerity to
complete the talks on a second aid package. The demands are also
for lower wage costs and the deregulation of professions
including lawyers and truck drivers.  Resignation Reports  Papademos’s spokesman, Pantelis Kapsis, denied news reports
today that the premier would resign if leaders of the parties
backing his interim government refused to agree to additional
conditions for new financing.  The cuts risk triggering a “social explosion,” Hieronymos II, the head of Greece’s Orthodox Church, said in a statement
posted on the website of the  Archdiocese of Athens .  “We are being asked to take even larger doses of a
medicine that has proven to be deadly and to undertake
commitments that do not solve the problem, but only temporarily
postpone the foretold death of our economy,” the Archbishop
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  