-- Greedy Matron Frolics, Cavalier Swaggers, Mozart: London Stage
-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 2012-02-03T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/greedy-matron-frolics-cavalier-swaggers-mozart-london-stage.html
Comedies are like Eurozone crises.
You wait ages for one, and then three turn up at once.  Topping the list of cheer-uppers in London is a new
 National Theatre  production of “She Stoops to Conquer,” Oliver
Goldsmith’s mistaken-identity romp of 1773. Sophie Thompson,
playing a rapacious over-protective mother, adds another dazzler
to her gallery of comic creations. (She garnered great notices
last year playing two wildly different roles in “Clybourne
Park.”)  Here she’s Mrs. Hardcastle, a provincial matron whose
character is equal parts good-nature and greed. She’s anxious
that her son Tony should marry his cousin Constance for a dowry
of jewels, even though the two loathe each other.  Thompson’s asides are beautifully timed, her energy is
phenomenal, her physical gags -- including a low dignified
curtsey from which she can’t quite manage to rise --delicious.
Her attempt at aping fashionable  London  manners ends up in a
scene with upper class, rural and cockney accents all mangled
into one, along with a dash of something that sounds like
Jamaican patois.  For all the caricature exaggeration, Thompson holds on to a
core of reality. When she bursts out with “Wasn’t it all for
your good?” to her doltish son, a chilling note of fear and
anger creeps into her voice.  Blustery Spouse  She’s matched by Steve Pemberton (from the television
series “The League of Gentlemen”) as her blustery husband.
Harry Hadden-Paton is terrific too as Marlow, who is a
boisterous pup before working-class women and becomes timid when
confronted with ladies of quality. His lechery contains a
seductive quality of both silliness and innocence.  A few other leads aren’t up to this mark, and don’t bring
the same high energy to their parts. There are also some jangly
musical interludes that jar stylistically with the 18th-century
setting and are performed by a troupe of servants with
unnecessary roughness.  That said, director Jamie Lloyd keeps the comedy levels
high, and his period-costume production looks great. Designer
 Mark Thompson ’s recreation of an oak-paneled manor house makes
you want to go and stay in it.  The  Olivier Awards  are coming around soon. If I were a
betting man, I’d say Thompson is up for her fifth nomination,
and even her second win. Rating: ***.  ‘Der Rosenkavalier’  It’s fun to see great actors throwing looks to each other
as they do at the National Theatre. Add some superb singing, and
more 18th-century costumes, and you have operatic heaven.  English National Opera ’s “Der Rosenkavalier” is a
delight. Mezzo Sarah Connolly is Octavian, the dashing cavalier
of the title. With her youthful swagger and luxurious voice, she
commands the stage.  John Tomlinson  is Baron Ochs, a self-
important bully and Octavian’s rival in love. His boomy voice
and gift for comic gesture are employed to amusing ends, while
conductor  Edward Gardner  holds it all together.  If Amanda Roocroft (the Marschallin) doesn’t quite have as
caressing a voice as her colleagues, her acting is as nuanced
and detailed.  David McVicar ’s period-costume production has its
drawbacks. A single, decrepit rococo set has to serve for all
three acts. It looks odd as the setting for the nouveau-riche
Faninal family home.  Never mind. When this large-scale Richard Strauss opera
comes alive with all the conversational elegance and wit that it
does here, it’s still a wonder. Rating: ***.  Cool Fun  Tomlinson isn’t the only singer who can cut a comic caper.
Baritone Thomas Allen, too, shows how it should be done as Don
Alfonso in Mozart’s “Cosi fan tutte” at the  Royal Opera . The
production marks his 40th year with the company.  How does he keep this Machiavellian character fresh,
amusing and cool? By having a sense of fun and pleasure in game
playing, lurking under the coldhearted calculation. He skips
with glee, and preens delight when his plans work out. He
wittily mocks his victims over their sentimentality.  Allen is as hypnotic as a snake, and sings with suave
assurance. It’s just as well, because the rest of the cast can’t
hold a candle to him. There are some attractive voices, yet no
one creates the same dramatic buzz, the same sense of a lived-in
character as Allen. In Jonathan Miller’s minimalist modern-dress
staging, it adds up to an evening of longueurs, punctuated by
sizzling flashes of baritonal joy. Rating: **.  “She Stoops to Conquer” is in repertory at the National
Theatre. Information:  http://www.nationaltheatre.org.uk  or
44-20-7452-3000.  “Der Rosenkavalier” is in repertory at the Coliseum
through Feb. 27. Information:  http://www.eno.org  or
44-871-911-0200.  “Cosi fan tutte” is at the Royal Opera until Feb. 13.
Information:  http://www.roh.org.uk  or +44-20-7304-4000.  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  
To contact the writer on the story:
Warwick Thompson, in London, at  warwicktho@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 