-- Gross Says Fed to Keep Easing Policy Amid Job Growth: Tom Keene
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-02-03T15:20:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/gross-says-fed-to-consider-asset-purchases-even-with-labor-market-s-growth.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.’s
 Bill Gross  said the  Federal Reserve  will maintain accommodative
monetary policy and consider more asset purchases even with the
U.S. employment market expanding.  Gross domestic product in the first half of the year will
probably be 2 percent to 2.5 percent, which will leave the Fed
unsatisfied with growth, Gross, manager of the world’s biggest
bond fund, said in a radio interview on “Bloomberg
Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Ken Prewitt.  Employment climbed more than forecast in January and the
U.S. jobless rate unexpectedly fell to the lowest in three
years. The 243,000 increase in payrolls was the most since April
and exceeded all forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey, Labor
Department figures showed in  Washington . The  unemployment rate 
dropped to 8.3 percent, the lowest since February 2009.  “This is really an extraordinary report,” Gross said.
“We’d caution as always that there are many structural
headwinds ahead in terms our economic future. But for the moment
we are heading up in terms of many of these growth metrics.”  The Fed  purchased  $2.3 trillion of debt in two rounds of
quantitative easing known as QE1 and QE2 as part of its efforts
to support the world’s biggest economy. Policy makers last month
said they plan to keep their benchmark interest rate near zero
until at least the end of 2014. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
said following the central bank’s Jan. 25 meeting that he’s
considering another program of debt purchases if it appears the
recovery isn’t progressing.  ‘Cyclical Bounce’  “We should welcome the headline numbers, they are really
good, but we should not lose sight that we have structural
issues that aren’t being dealt with,”  Mohamed A. El-Erian ,
Pimco’s chief executive officer, said in a separate interview on
Bloomberg  Television’s “In the Loop” with Betty Liu.  “So far the Fed has been dismissing the short-term data,”
said El-Erian, who serves as co-chief investment officer with
Pimco founder Gross. “They have been looking beyond the
cyclical bounce as secularly the economy is still week.”  Gross boosted the proportion of U.S. government and
Treasury debt in the $250 billion Total Return Fund to 30
percent of assets in December, the highest since November 2010.
Treasuries with maturities from five- to seven-years have been
the focus of Treasury purchases, added Gross, with longer-term
debt unattractive due to risk of a pick-up in inflation,  Pimco’s largest  fund  has returned 6.95 percent in the past
year, topping 53 percent of its peers, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. It gained 2.78 percent over the past
month, beating 99 percent of his competitors.  Inflation Bet  “We did think that the Fed would raise its inflationary
target to 2 percent,” Gross said. “And that has produced a
tremendous bid and higher prices for TIPS.”  The  Total Return Fund (PTTRX)  increased its allocation of Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, or TIPS, to 8 percent, and
holdings in municipal bonds to 5 percent, as well as bets on
debt of the U.K. and German government, Gross said.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  in statement of its long-
run goals and strategies on Jan. 25 specified a 2 percent goal
for inflation, as measured by the annual change in the  price
index  for personal consumption expenditures.  The difference between rates on 10-year notes and TIPS,
reflecting the outlook among traders for consumer prices,
increased to as much as 2.19 percentage points, the widest since
Oct. 28. The spread averaged 2.03 percentage points over the
past five years.  Yield Curve  The zero-bound  interest rate  policies embraced by central
banks including the Fed may end up killing as opposed to
creating credit and developed economies may suffer accordingly,
Gross wrote in a monthly investment outlook released two days
ago on  Newport Beach , California-based Pimco’s website. While
recent actions by policy makers provide assurances that short
and intermediate U.S. bond yields may not change for years, any
potential for price appreciation is limited, he wrote.  Pimco favors Treasuries maturing in five through seven
years, with longer-maturity debt more at risk to inflation with
the stimulative polices of the world’s central banks, Gross
said.  Pimco, a unit of the Munich-based insurer  Allianz SE ,
managed $1.35 trillion of assets as of September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  