-- Li Ka-shing’s Hutchison Whampoa Buys Orange Austria in $1.7 Billion Deal
-- B y   M a r k   L e e   a n d   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2012-02-03T05:07:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/li-ka-shing-s-hutchison-whampoa-buys-orange-austria-in-1-7-billion-deal.html
Hong Kong  billionaire Li Ka-shing’s
 Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13)  agreed to buy Orange Austria in a deal
valued at 1.3 billion euros ($1.7 billion), adding to more than
$31 billion of investments in overseas mobile-phone operations.  Hutchison 3G Austria, the local unit of Hutchison, expects
to complete the purchase of Orange Austria in the middle of this
year, the Hong Kong parent said in a statement today. Some
Orange Austria assets, including mobile carrier Yesss!, will be
sold to Telekom Austria Group for 390 million euros after the
acquisition, Hutchison said.  Hutchison shares rose to the highest level in five months
in Hong Kong trading on optimism the purchase may improve its
ability to  compete  against market leaders Telekom Austria and
 Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ’s T-Mobile Austria. Li, Hong Kong’s richest
man, is stepping up acquisitions in  Europe  as companies in the
region seek capital to counter the sovereign debt crisis.  “With the situation in Europe as it is, there will be
opportunities to cherry-pick,” said Adrian Lowe, who rates
Hutchison shares “buy” at Mirae Asset Securities in Hong Kong.
The proposed acquisition of Orange Austria is “positive” for
Hutchison’s mobile operations in Austria, he said.  Hutchison shares  rose  3.7 percent to HK$76.65 at the midday
break in Hong Kong trading, compared with a 0.1 percent decline
in the city’s benchmark  Hang Seng Index . The stock has gained 18
percent this year.  France Telecom  Orange Austria is 65 percent-owned by Mid Europa Partners,
with the rest held by  France Telecom SA. (FTE)  Hutchison did not give
a breakdown of debt and equity in 1.3 billion euros enterprise
value for the Orange Austria deal.  J.P Morgan Chase & Co. advised Hutchison in the
transaction. The sellers were advised by Morgan Stanley.  The acquisition will create a mobile carrier with 2.8
million customers and more than 20 percent market share in
Austria, Hutchison said. Hutchison Austria expects to generate
cost and capital spending synergies of at least 500 million
euros from the combination, according to the statement.  Hutchison’s 3 Group, which owns phone businesses in  Italy ,
the U.K., Denmark, Sweden, Austria, Australia and Ireland, has
made cumulative investments of HK$240 billion ($31 billion),
according to an estimate by Morgan Stanley in 2010. 3 Group made
its first profit before interest and tax in 2010, after booking
more than HK$157 billion of losses since starting operations in
2003.  Profit Surge  Cheung Kong Infrastructure Holdings Ltd. (1038) , the roads and
utilities arm of Hutchison, said in August it is leading a group
of Li’s companies to buy  Northumbrian Water Group Plc (NWG)  for 2.4
billion pounds ($3.8 billion). In 2010, CKI completed the 5.8-
billion-pound purchase of the U.K. power networks of Electricite
de France SA.  Hutchison’s first-half profit increased seven-fold to
HK$46.3 billion, helped by the $5.5 billion initial public
offering of Hutchison Port Holdings Trust in  Singapore  in March.  Li is Hong Kong’s richest man with wealth of $22 billion,
Forbes magazine said last month. Hutchison, with investments in
ports, telecommunications, retail, property and energy in more
than 50 countries, is Li’s biggest company by revenue.  The sale of the Orange Austria stake is  France Telecom ’s
second major disposal in two months. The former French phone
monopoly announced in December that it would sell its Orange
Switzerland mobile-phone unit to buyout firm Apax Partners LLP
for 1.6 billion euros.  Chief Executive Officer Stephane Richard is shedding slow-
growing operations in Europe as the company turns to markets
such as  Africa  and the  Middle East  that promise better growth.
France Telecom is also looking to sell its Portuguese unit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  