-- Micron CEO Appleton’s Plane Had ‘Disproportionate’ Crash Rate, FAA Says
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2012-02-04T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/micron-chief-s-lancair-plane-had-disproportionate-crash-rate-faa-says.html
The Lancair IVP aircraft that  Micron
Technology Inc. (MU)  Chief Executive Officer  Steve Appleton  was
piloting when he died yesterday is known for its performance and
a higher-than-average number of accidents.  A U.S. Federal Aviation Administration notice to Lancair
operators on Sept. 25, 2009, warned that the plane had had a
“disproportionate” number of fatal accidents.  “The Lancair fatal accident rate is substantially higher
than both personal-use general aviation as well as the overall
fatal accident rate for all amateur-built experimental
aircraft,” the FAA said in the notice.  Although designed to be built at home, the four-seat plane
is made of carbon fiber to reduce weight and has a pressurized
cabin so it can fly at high altitudes, according to the Lancair
website. It’s categorized by the FAA as an experimental
aircraft, meaning it’s not subject to the same certification
standards as a factory-built plane by Cessna Aircraft, a unit of
 Textron Inc. (TXT)   Lancairs represented about 3 percent of the U.S. amateur-
built fleet and were involved in 16 percent of the group’s fatal
accidents in the previous 11 months, the FAA said in its 2009
notice.  During that period, 60 percent of the fatal accidents
resulted from loss of control, and most of those crashes
occurred near the runway.  Stall Vulnerability  Appleton’s plane rolled and then plunged to the ground
shortly after takeoff, Zoe Keliher, a U.S. National
Transportation Safety Board investigator, said at a briefing.
The pilot had radioed air-traffic controllers to say he was
returning to the airport in Boise,  Idaho , Keliher said.  The Lancair’s wings stop providing lift at higher speeds
than other small planes, Steve Wallace, former chief of safety
at the FAA, said in an interview.  The plane’s aerodynamic stalls, which result from loss of
lift, are more violent than in other small planes, Wallace said.
As a result, pilots who aren’t familiar with this characteristic
can get into trouble in the plane, he said.  “This airplane has a very hot wing and you need to be very
respectful of that,” said Bruce Landsberg, president of the
Aircraft Owners and Pilots Association Foundation and its Air
Safety Institute.  Pilot Training  The Lancair Owners and Builders Organization said the issue
arises from poor training of pilots, not the plane itself,
according to the Experimental Aircraft Association website. The
EAA represents manufacturers and owners of the Lancair and
similar amateur-built planes.  Appleton had been a pilot since 1988, according to FAA
records. In addition to the small plane he was piloting, he had
received several advanced FAA certificates usually reserved for
airline pilots, according to the records.  Amateur-built planes tend to have higher accident rates
than factory-built aircraft, according to Landsberg and Wallace.  One factor is that federal requirements are not as
stringent, which allows owners to make modifications to the
planes, they said.  The singer John Denver died in an experimental aircraft
crash on Oct. 12, 1997, after his Long EZ plane lost power. One
of the factors contributing to the accident was that the
previous owner had located a fuel-line switch in a position
behind the pilot where it was difficult to reach, the NTSB
concluded.  The NTSB, which investigates aviation accidents,  said  Jan.
23 that it had finished collecting data for a study of
experimental-aircraft safety due to be completed this year.  The Lancair IVP is capable of speeds as high as 330 miles
per hour at 24,000 feet, according to the company’s website.
That makes it one of the fastest non-turbine powered aircraft,
Landsberg said.  A comparable factory-built plane, the Piper Aircraft Inc.
 Mirage , flies at a maximum of 269 mph, according to Landsberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  