-- Independent Scotland May Face Less Economic Freedom, Niesr Says
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2012-02-03T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/independent-scotland-may-face-less-economic-freedom-niesr-says.html
An independent  Scotland  may face more
constraints on economic policy than it does now, according to
the  National Institute of Economic and Social Research .  Scotland would enter independence heavily indebted with no
insurance from fiscal risk sharing or transfers from the rest of
the U.K., Angus Armstrong, director of macroeconomic research at
the London-based institute, said in a paper published today.  “Leaving the politics aside, it is unclear what
independence will involve and what it can deliver in a
globalised economy,” Armstrong said. “An independent Scotland
is likely to find the implicit constraints on economic policy,
especially fiscal policy, are even more restrictive than the
explicit ones it faces as a full part of the U.K.”  Scottish First Minister Alex Salmond, whose Scottish
 National Party  won an overall majority in last year’s
parliamentary election, plans to hold a referendum on
independence in the fall 2014. Salmond is also mulling including
a question on whether Scotland should get increased powers while
remaining within the U.K.  Salmond’s plan to keep sterling is sensible while bringing
its own problems, Armstrong said. “As the example of the euro
zone shows, using a currency which a parliament has no direct
control over brings restrictions,” he said.  Even with a favourable settlement on oil revenue,
Scotland’s fiscal balances are likely to be volatile with large
deficits in some years. Debt is likely to be around 70 percent
of the Scottish economy, Armstrong said.  An independent Scotland would open up the possibility of
debt default in very remote circumstances as it would not have
the ability to print money to repay creditors, Armstrong said.  “As some European states know this is no longer just a
theoretical possibility,” he said. “As a full member of the
U.K. this possibility does not currently exist for Scotland.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh  at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  