-- Indian Bonds Complete Best Week in a Month as RBI Purchases Debt
-- B y   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n
-- 2012-02-03T12:15:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/india-s-bonds-set-for-best-week-in-month-as-rbi-to-purchase-debt.html
India ’s 10-year bonds completed the
best week in almost a month on speculation the central bank’s
debt purchases will ease a cash shortage in the banking system
and bolster demand for fixed-income securities.  Yields (GIND10YR)  fell to a nine-month low as the  Reserve Bank of
India  bought 88.2 billion rupees ($1.8 billion) of government
notes at an auction today. The monetary authority may also
consider buying dollars to release funds into the banking
system, Deputy Governor Subir Gokarn said in an interview in
Mumbai yesterday.  “Liquidity is still pretty tight,” said  Paresh Nayar ,
Mumbai-based head of money-market and currency trading at
FirstRand Bank Ltd. “Investors are expecting more debt
purchases by the RBI to help overcome the situation.”  The yield on the 8.79 percent bonds due November 2021
declined 19 basis points, or 0.19 percentage point, this week to
8.17 percent in Mumbai, according to the central bank’s trading
system. That is the biggest drop since the five-day period ended
Jan. 6, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The rate rose
three basis points today.  Lenders’  borrowed  an average 1.3 trillion rupees a day from
the central bank this week to meet cash shortages. That is more
than double the 600 billion rupees “comfort zone” indicated by
the  Reserve Bank  in its Jan. 24 policy statement.  “To the extent that pressure remains, we are always open
to carrying out further open-market operations,” Gokarn said.
“The other form of liquidity infusion is to buy up dollars. If
circumstances are right, we’ll certainly consider it. When we’ll
have those circumstances is difficult to say.”  The cost of one-year interest-rate swaps, or derivative
contracts used to guard against fluctuations in funding costs,
fell 10 basis points this week to 8.05 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The rate dropped four basis points
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
V. Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  