-- Indonesia Mutual Funds May Grow 20% This Year, Group Says
-- B y   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a
-- 2012-02-03T05:06:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/indonesia-mutual-funds-may-grow-20-this-year-group-says.html
Indonesian (JCI)  mutual-fund assets will
probably expand at a faster pace this year as overseas investors
increase stock purchases after the country regained its
investment grade, an industry group said.  Mutual fund assets may grow as much as 20 percent in 2012
Abiprayadi Riyanto, chairman of the Indonesian Mutual Fund
Managers Association, said in an interview in Jakarta yesterday.
They climbed 13 percent last year to 168.2 trillion rupiah
($18.7 billion), 36 percent of which was in stocks, said
Riyanto, who oversees $2.4 billion in assets as president
director of PT Mandiri Manajemen Investasi.  “I expect some of the big pension funds will gradually
enter Indonesia,” he said. “If economic fundamentals are good,
there will be opportunities to grab new investors, create new
fund products and create new investment themes.”  Overseas fund managers had bought a net $331 million of
Indonesian stocks this year to yesterday, more than triple the
amount from a year earlier, stock exchange data show.  Fitch
Ratings  upgraded Indonesia’s sovereign debt ratings on Dec. 15
followed by Moody’s Investors Service on Jan. 18, allowing some
foreign funds whose allocations are restricted to investment-
grade countries to buy the nation’s equities.  The benchmark  Jakarta Composite index  climbed 3.2 percent
last year, Asia’s third-best performer, as economic growth
accelerated. Southeast Asia’s biggest economy may have grown 6.5
percent last year, Bank Indonesia said in a Jan. 12 statement.
That’s the fastest pace since 1996, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Index Target  Emerging market stocks will perform well this year as
central banks start cutting  interest rates  amid easing
inflation,  Adrian Mowat , the Hong Kong-based chief Asian and
emerging-market strategist at JPMorgan Chase & Co., told
reporters in Manila on Jan. 31. Mowat is “overweight” on
Indonesia, he said.  The Jakarta Composite index rose 0.1 percent to 4,020.35 as
of the 11:30 a.m. local-time break, set for the highest close
since Aug. 18. It has risen 5.2 percent in 2012, compared with a
14 percent gain in the  MSCI Emerging Markets Index. (MXEF)   The  Indonesian stock index  may rise as much as 15 percent
this year if  Europe  is able to overcome its debt crisis, Riyanto
said.  The  International Monetary Fund  cut its forecast for global
economic growth this year on Jan. 24 to 3.3 percent from a
September estimate of 4 percent, citing a European recession and
slowing expansion in  China  and  India . Indonesia’s economic
growth may slow to less than 6 percent this year if Europe
suffers a severe recession, Bambang Brodjonegoro, the head of
fiscal policy at the nation’s finance ministry, said Jan. 25.  Low Rates  “Indonesia’s economy is resilient,” Riyanto said. “But
we cannot ignore negative external surprises, which is why we
must be careful in maintaining the good perception on the
domestic economy.”  Growth may be between 6.3 percent and 6.7 percent this
year,  Bank Indonesia  said in its Jan. 12 statement. Inflation
slowed in January for a fifth month, bolstering the case for the
central bank to keep  interest rates  at a 6 percent record low to
boost the economy as global growth falters.  Lower rates may also support mutual fund asset growth as it
improves the appeal of stocks over  time deposits , said Riyanto.
New fund product offerings last year helped increase the number
of unit holders to 463,327 from 353,704 in 2010, he said, adding
this doesn’t reflect the actual number of investors as one
investor can hold more than one unit at a mutual fund.  Still, that’s less than 1 percent of  Indonesia ’s population
of 237 million, indicating the industry’s growth potential, he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  