-- Misys In Talks Over Merger With Swiss Rival Temenos After Fidelity Failure
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2012-02-03T12:10:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/misys-in-merger-talks-with-swiss-rival-temenos-after-failed-fidelity-deal.html
Misys Plc (MSY) , the U.K. software maker
that failed to reach a deal to be taken over by  Fidelity
National Information Services Inc. (FIS)  last August, is in talks to
merge with  Temenos Group AG (TEMN)  of  Switzerland .  Misys is in “preliminary discussions” with Temenos about
a possible all-share merger, the London-based company said
today. In a  statement , Temenos confirmed the talks and said the
company is “evaluating its strategic options.”  Temenos rose as much as 12 percent in Zurich trading. The
Swiss company has been eyeing Misys’s financial software
business and a merger of the companies, with a combined market
value of $3.1 billion before today, would create the largest
vendor of banking software, said Milan Radia, a managing
director of research at Jefferies International Ltd.  “Misys is known to be for sale and it would have almost
disappointed me if Temenos wouldn’t at least give it a try,”
said Andreas Mueller, an analyst at Zuercher Kantonalbank in
Zurich with a “market perform” rating on Temenos shares. “Such
a combination makes sense if you look at the difficult banking
environment, where these companies’ clients are themselves
consolidating.”  Temenos shares rose as much as 2 Swiss francs and were up
8.4 percent to 18.65 francs as of 1:09 p.m. in Zurich. Misys
declined 1.1 percent to 322 pence in  London . The stock traded as
high as 430 pence last year before Jacksonville, Florida-based
Fidelity broke off talks to acquire the company.  Product Overlap  Petra Shuttlewood, a spokeswoman for Temenos, declined to
comment beyond the company’s statement. A Misys spokesman
couldn’t immediately be reached for comment.  Misys had a  market value  of 1.09 billion pounds ($1.7
billion), while Temenos was valued at 1.24 billion Swiss francs
($1.4 billion) as of yesterday’s closing prices.  “There’s going to be a lot of product overlap,” said
Vijay Anand, an analyst at Espirito Santo in London. “The
future of the company will depend on whether they use Temenos’s
product or Misys’s product and its most likely to be Temenos’s
because it’s market leading.”  Misys makes software for cash, wealth and risk management
as well as for syndicated lending, over-the-counter derivatives
trading and post-trade processing. It has more than 1,300
banking customers. Temenos’s products include software for data
management and payments, according to its website.  More Suitors?  Sales  at Temenos advanced 16 percent to $225.6 million in
the six months ended June 30, while revenue at Misys, boosted by
an acquisition, increased 22 percent to 197 million pounds ($312
million) in the half year ended Nov. 30.  Talks between Fidelity and Misys were close to an agreement
last year but negotiations were called off after the two parties
couldn’t agree on a price, a person familiar with the situation
said in August. The latest merger talks may prompt other
competitors to seek negotiations, Jefferies’s Radia said.  “If you’re a vendor in core banking, what you’re going to
witness here is the creation of a massive, massive vendor with a
huge installed base, and that would be competitively difficult
to stomach for the Indian providers and some of the U.S.
providers,” he said. “It will definitely give them some food
for thought.”  Infosys Ltd., with its headquarters in Bangalore,  India ,
and New Delhi-based  HCL Technologies Ltd. (HCLT)  are potential suitors,
Radia said last year.  Lazard & Co. advises Temenos, while  Barclays Capital  is
acting as financial adviser to Misys.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Browning in London at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  