-- Jefferson County Creditors Submit Questions for Sewer Appeal
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-02-03T23:44:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/jefferson-county-creditors-submit-questions-for-sewer-appeal-1-.html
Creditors of bankrupt Jefferson
County,  Alabama (STOAL1) , listed the questions they want a federal judge
to answer in deciding whether to overturn a lower court ruling
that removed a receiver for the county’s insolvent sewage
system.  Last month, the receiver, John S. Young Jr., and sewage
system bondholders appealed a bankruptcy court ruling that ended
Young’s control over the system. The questions filed today in
U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Birmingham,  Alabama , raise technical,
legal issues about whether Judge Thomas B. Bennett exceeded his
authority when he ruled that the county, not Young, should
control the system.  Bennett ruled that after Jefferson County filed bankruptcy
last year, Young lost his authority. Young, bondholders and the
bonds’ insurers wanted the same state court judge who stripped
the county of the sewage system in 2010 to retain jurisdiction.  Young asked in his filing today “whether the  bankruptcy
court  erred in finding and concluding that it possesses
exclusive jurisdiction over the property of the county.”  Jefferson County filed bankruptcy in November, more than a
year after a state court gave Young control of the sewage
system.  The county, state officials, the receiver and bondholders
failed to implement a tentative agreement that would have
required the sewer debt to be cut by about $1 billion, rates to
increase and the Alabama Legislature to enact new laws to
benefit the county’s finances.  The bankruptcy is tied to a sewer refinancing tainted by
political corruption. In 2009,  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  agreed to a
$722 million settlement with the Securities and Exchange
Commission over payments its bankers allegedly made to people
tied to county politicians to win business.  The case is In re Jefferson County, 11-05736-9,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Northern District of Alabama (Birmingham).  -- Editors: Peter Blumberg, Glenn Holdcraft  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington,  Delaware , at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 