-- Job Gains at U.S. Factories Show Manufacturers Are Driving the Expansion
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2012-02-03T19:31:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/job-gains-at-u-s-factories-show-manufacturers-driving-economic-expansion.html
American factories added the most
jobs in a year as they stayed at the forefront of the expansion,
boosting employment opportunities in the rest of the economy.  Manufacturing  payrolls  increased 50,000 last month,
exceeding the most optimistic forecast in a Bloomberg News
survey and capping the largest two-year gain since 1985, Labor
Department figures released today showed. Total employment
across the economy jumped 243,000 in January as the jobless rate
unexpectedly dropped to 8.3 percent.  “Most companies that I talk to are increasing, even if
just a little, with one or two employees,” Rachael Lewington,
owner of a  Premier Placements , a manufacturing staffing firm
based in Cooper City,  Florida , said today in a telephone
interview. “Positions that have been put on hold have become
available. I’m getting a lot of calls with regard to sales
people. That’s an indicator that they see growth.”  The gains at producers may continue as factory employees
last month put in their  longest workweek  in 14 years, while
overtime jumped to the highest since March 2007. Inventory
rebuilding at the end of 2011 is driving orders at the same time
companies replace equipment and demand for automobiles rises.  The number of factory  workers  in January climbed to 11.9
million, the most since May 2009. Assembly-line workers put in
an average 41.9 hours of work each week last month, compared
with 34.5 for all U.S. workers.  The median estimate for January factory payrolls called for
a 12,000 gain, and projections of 23 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg ranged tom 9,000 to 25,000.  Industrial Production  John Ryding  at RDQ Economics is among those who said the
increase in factory hours “points to a very robust  industrial
production  report for January.” The Federal Reserve releases
figures on output at factories, mines and utilities on Feb. 15.
December  production at factories  climbed 0.9 percent, the most
in a year.  “For at least the last three weeks, we’ve felt very good
about the demand,” Thomas Kadien, senior vice president of
consumer packaging at  Memphis , Tennessee-based  International
Paper Co. (IP) , the world’s largest maker of corrugated packaging,
said yesterday on a conference call. “For at least the last
three weeks, we’ve felt very good about the demand. From a North
American perspective, the softness is behind us, and we feel
much better about the first quarter.”  Since reaching a post-World War II low of 11.46 million at
the start of 2010, manufacturers have added 404,000 workers to
their payrolls.  More Hiring  “With hours extending, productivity could cool off a bit
in manufacturing and that would beget more hiring,” said  John Herrmann , president of Summit, New Jersey-based Herrmann
Forecasting LLC. “That would be a very strong signal for the
underlying economy.”  Peoria, Illinois-based  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) , the world’s
biggest maker of earthmoving equipment, plans to hire more
workers this year as it expands facilities, including in
Victoria,  Texas , and Winston-Salem,  North Carolina , Chief
Financial Officer Edward Rapp said yesterday.  “Those are the things that will lead to employment growth
here,” Rapp said in an interview with Betty Liu on Bloomberg
Television’s “In the Loop.”  Cars and light trucks sold at a  14.1 million  annual rate
last month, according to industry data. Excluding a surge in
August 2009 that reflected the government’s “cars-for-
clunkers” program, it was the strongest month since May 2008.  The increase in overall payrolls was broad-based, with
construction, temporary help agencies, accounting firms,
restaurants and retailers stepping up hiring along with
factories. The 8.3 percent unemployment rate is the lowest since
February 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  