-- John Terry Won’t Be Named England Captain Until Racism Charges Resolved
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-02-03T12:32:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/john-terry-won-t-be-named-england-captain-until-racism-charges-resolved.html
John Terry  won’t be captain of the
England soccer team until allegations of racial abuse against a
fellow player are resolved, the Football Association said.  The F.A. said in a  statement  its board made the decision
“in the interest of all parties.” The Chelsea player will
stand trial on the charge July 9, a week after the 2012 European
Championship ends.  “This decision has been taken due to the high nature of
the England captaincy, on and off the pitch, and the additional
demands and requirements expected of the captain leading into
and during the tournament,” the statement read, adding Terry is
still eligible to be selected for the squad.  Terry, 31, is charged with racially abusing Queens Park
Rangers defender  Anton Ferdinand  in an Oct. 23 Premier League
match. He has denied the charge and his lawyers pleaded not
guilty on his behalf two days ago in  London  criminal court.  The F.A. said its decision in no way “infers any
suggestion of guilt” in relation to the charge against Terry.  It’s the second time Terry has lost the captaincy. England
manager Fabio Capello stripped him of the role in Feb. 2010 over
allegations of marital infidelity with the ex-girlfriend of
former teammate  Wayne Bridge . He was then reinstated last March
during Euro 2012 qualifying, with Capello saying “one year’s
punishment is enough.”  The F.A. said Chairman David Bernstein spoke to both Terry
and Capello about its decision.  “ Fabio Capello  was not involved in the F.A. board
discussions which reached this conclusion, but understands that
the F.A. board has authority to make this decision,” the ruling
body said, adding Capello will decide on the next captain.  The F.A. said it would have no further comment on the
matter. England hosts the Netherlands Feb. 29 and Belgium June
6, visiting Norway in between. It then starts the European
Championship against France June 11.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 