-- Jose Mourinho Ready to Make Chelsea Return, the Sun Says: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-02-03T10:55:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/jose-mourinho-ready-to-make-chelsea-return-the-sun-says-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Special Return  Jose Mourinho  is ready to make a return to England with
former club Chelsea, the Sun said.  Mourinho will quit at Real Madrid this summer and is keen
to resume his old job at Stamford Bridge, the Sun said. The only
stumbling block to a move will be his insistence that owner
 Roman Abramovich  give him total control of team matters, the
newspaper said.  Mourinho won six trophies in three years at Chelsea but
failed to reach Abramovich’s goal of a Champions League crown.  Russian Interest  Carlos Tevez’s agent is pursuing the possibility of a deal
involving a Russian club in order to get him playing before the
summer, the  Daily Mirror  said.  The Russian transfer window doesn’t close until Feb. 24 and
FC Anzhi would be prepared to pay Tevez’s salary of more than
250,000 pounds ($396,000) per week but may balk at  Manchester
City ’s asking price of about 20 million pounds, the Mirror said.  Higuain, Aguero  Real Madrid may sell Gonzalo Higuain to Chelsea to fund a
bid for Manchester City’s  Sergio Aguero , the  Daily Mail  said.  Real wants to sign a marquee striker and is willing to part
with whatever it takes to lure Aguero, who has 18 goals this
season, the Mail said. Chelsea had a previous 33 million bid
accepted for Higuain but the player rejected the move, the
newspaper said.  Suarez Move?  Liverpool striker  Luis Suarez  has emerged as a surprise
transfer target for Juventus, the  Daily Star  said.  The Serie A leader sees Suarez as a replacement for
Alessandro del Piero, who will leave in the summer, the Star
said. Liverpool fears Suarez, currently banned for racially
abusing  Manchester United ’s Patrice Evra, may have to leave
after the season to rebuild his image, the newspaper said.  Hazard’s Decision  Eden Hazard wants to move to the Premier League this summer
and will chose between Manchester City and Chelsea, the  Mirror 
said.  The Lille forward has decided against Arsenal, while
Manchester United is not ready to meet his more than 30 million-
pound price tag, the Mirror said. Real Madrid is also still in
the picture, but the Belgian thinks the English game suits his
style of play best, the newspaper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 