-- Credit Suisse, JPMorgan, Barclays, Wal-Mart in Court News
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-02-03T12:44:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/jpmorgan-barclays-wal-mart-deutsche-bank-dow-in-court-news.html
Kareem Serageldin, the ex-global head
of  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ’s CDO business charged in a bonus-
boosting fraud tied to a $5.35 billion trading book, was
surprised by the U.S. indictment since he has been cooperating
with investigators for four years, his lawyer said.  Serageldin, 38, a U.S. citizen who lives in England, was
charged in Manhattan federal court for masterminding a scheme to
fake collateralized debt obligation data to meet targets and
protect end-of-year bonuses. Two of his former subordinates,
David Higgs, 42, and Salmaan Siddiqui, 36, pleaded guilty Feb. 1
in  New York  to manipulating prices at Serageldin’s direction.
The men were also sued by the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission.  Manhattan U.S. Attorney  Preet Bharara , whose office is
prosecuting the case, urged Serageldin after the indictment was
unsealed to come to the U.S. to face the charges. Serageldin’s
lawyer said his client was blindsided by Bharara’s prosecution
because he has been fully cooperating with U.K. and U.S.
investigators, including Bharara.  “I have been in touch with the government to discuss the
matter,” James McGuire, a lawyer for Serageldin in New York,
said yesterday in a phone interview. “He’s studying his
options.” Serageldin denied any wrongdoing.  Higgs and Siddiqui both implicated their former boss,
saying Serageldin told them to overstate the value of mortgage-
backed assets in a Credit Suisse trading book after the collapse
of the U.S. housing market. Both men, who have plea agreements
with the government, face sentences of as long as five years in
prison on one count of conspiracy, the U.S. said.  Serageldin was charged with conspiracy, falsification of
books and records and wire fraud. While the conspiracy charge
carries a maximum five-year term, the wire fraud and
falsification of books and records counts each carry a term of
as long as 20 years in prison.  “We were surprised by the indictment if not the SEC
complaint,” McGuire said in the interview yesterday. “We only
learned of this last night for the first time. As you can
imagine, my client is studying the complaint, conferring with
counsel and considering his options.”  Bharara said at a Feb. 1 news conference announcing the
case that his office didn’t consider Serageldin a fugitive.  If Serageldin doesn’t come to New York, Bharara said the
U.S. will seek to extradite him.  Ellen Davis , a spokeswoman for
Bharara, declined to comment on McGuire’s statement about
Serageldin’s cooperation with the U.S. attorney’s office.  The cases are U.S. v. Higgs, 12-cr-00088, and U.S. v.
Siddiqui, 12-cr-00089, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
New York (Manhattan). The SEC case is U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission v. Serageldin, 12-cv-00796, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  New Suits  Swiss Bank Wegelin Charged With Helping U.S. Clients Evade Taxes  Wegelin & Co., the 270-year-old private bank, became the
first Swiss lender to face criminal charges in a broadening U.S.
crackdown on offshore firms suspected of helping Americans evade
taxes.  Wegelin helped Americans hide more than $1.2 billion in
assets and evade U.S. taxes, according to an indictment filed
yesterday in federal court in New York. The new charges expand
on earlier ones filed Jan. 3 against three bankers at Wegelin’s
Zurich branch accused of conspiring to help U.S. clients cheat
on their taxes.  Prosecutors said that from 2002 to 2011, more than 100 U.S.
taxpayers conspired with Wegelin, the three Zurich bankers --
Michael Berlinka, Urs Frei and Roger Keller -- and others. The
bank held more than $1.2 billion in assets not declared to the
Internal Revenue Service, according to the indictment.  “Wegelin Bank aided and abetted U.S. taxpayers who were in
flagrant violation of the tax code,” Manhattan U.S. Attorney
Preet Bharara said in a statement.  The U.S. and Switzerland are in talks to resolve a U.S.
probe of offshore tax evasion. Wegelin was one of at least 11
banks under criminal investigation by the Justice Department’s
tax division.  Wegelin announced on Jan. 27 that it agreed to a sale to
Switzerland’s Raiffeisen Group.  Federal authorities yesterday also seized $16 million in
Wegelin’s correspondent bank account in the U.S. at  UBS AG. (UBSN)   Richard Strassberg , a lawyer who represents the bank in the
U.S., declined to comment.  Prosecutors said that Wegelin and the three bankers wooed
U.S. clients fleeing UBS, the largest Swiss bank. UBS avoided
U.S. prosecution in 2009 by admitting it aided tax evasion,
paying $780 million and handing over data on 250 accounts. It
later disclosed information on about 4,450 more accounts.  The case is U.S. v. Berlinka, 12-cr-00002, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  JPMorgan Sued by Asset Management Fund Over Securities  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  was sued by Asset Management Fund over
claims it gave faulty information involving $515.6 million in
residential mortgage-backed securities.  The complaint, filed in New York state Supreme Court in
Manhattan on Feb. 1, accuses JPMorgan of making “material
representations and omissions” regarding underwriting standards
used to make mortgage loans that were pooled into the
securities.  Asset Management Fund, based in Chicago, said it bought the
securities from May 2003 to May 2007 from the defendants, which
also include Bear Stearns & Co. and  Washington Mutual Inc. (WAMUQ) , both
of which were acquired by JPMorgan.  “Plaintiffs did not know the true facts regarding
defendants’ misrepresentations and omissions in the offering
materials, and justifiably relied on those misrepresentations
and omissions,” lawyers for Asset Management Fund said in court
documents. “Defendants’ wrongdoing has led directly to
plaintiffs’ damages, which include loss of market value on the
securities.”  Tasha Pelio, a spokeswoman for New York-based JPMorgan,
declined to comment on the lawsuit in an e-mail.  The case is Asset Management Fund v. JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
650320/2012, New York state Supreme Court (Manhattan).  Nationwide Title Clearing Sued by Illinois Over Documents  Illinois Attorney General Lisa Madigan sued Nationwide
Title Clearing Inc., a Florida company she claims caused the
filing of faulty documents with county clerks.  “The practices that NTC used were a key contributor to the
mortgage crisis by undermining the integrity and accuracy of the
mortgage servicing and foreclosure process,” Madigan said
yesterday in a statement.  Nationwide Title Clearing prepares documents for mortgage
servicers to use against borrowers in default, foreclosure and
bankruptcy, Madigan said. Among the documents are mortgage
assignments used by lenders in foreclosures.  NTC employees signed forms used in Illinois foreclosures as
officers of the foreclosing financial institutions and not
Nationwide, often without reading or verifying the documents
they signed, Madigan said.  “NTC creates documents through an assembly-line process,”
Madigan said. “NTC signers typically have little or no role in
the actual creation of documents that they sign.”  The complaint, which accuses the Palm Harbor, Florida-based
company of unfair and deceptive acts, was filed yesterday in
state court in Chicago.  Diane Stein, a spokeswoman for Nationwide, said she
couldn’t immediately comment on the allegations because company
officials hadn’t yet seen the complaint.  The case is Illinois v. Nationwide Title Clearing Inc.,
12CH03602, Illinois Circuit Court, Cook County,  Chancery
Division  (Chicago).  For more, click here.  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Bank of America Wins Dismissal From Allstate Countrywide Suit  Bank of America Corp . won dismissal from  Allstate Corp. (ALL) ’s
lawsuit over the insurer’s alleged losses from $700 million in
mortgage-backed securities purchased from  Countrywide Financial
Corp (CFC) .  Bank of America, as a corporate parent, isn’t responsible
for the liabilities of Countrywide, the mortgage lender it
acquired in 2008, U.S. District Judge Mariana Pfaelzer in Los
Angeles said yesterday. The judge found that the evidence
Allstate provided wasn’t sufficient to support its allegations
that Bank of America set out to defraud Countrywide’s creditors.  Pfaelzer in October had granted Bank of America’s request
to be dismissed from the case and gave Allstate permission to
amend its claims to address the deficiencies she identified.
Allstate argued in its revised complaint that Bank of America
structured the Countrywide acquisition so as to strip the unit
of all its valuable assets and leave a “raided” shell for
creditors to sue.  “This is significant for settlement negotiations,”  James
Kwak , a law professor at the University of Connecticut, said in
a phone interview before the ruling was filed. “It gives Bank
of America a card to play in negotiations.”  Bank of America merged Countrywide with a subsidiary and
subsequently transferred most of the mortgage lender’s assets
from that unit, Countrywide Financial, to other Bank of America
operations and retired the Countrywide brand. Allstate claimed
that the asset transfers should be treated as a so-called de
facto merger under Delaware law.  Pfaelzer previously said that under Delaware law an asset
transfer can’t be treated as a de facto merger, which would make
Bank of America liable as the successor of Countrywide, unless
there was fraud involved. Allstate argued that the consideration
Bank of America paid the Countrywide subsidiary for the assets
was insufficient and was evidence of fraud.  Maryellen Thielen, a spokeswoman for Northbrook, Illinois-
based Allstate, didn’t return a phone call seeking comment on
the decision after regular business hours.  The case is Allstate v. Countrywide, 11-05236, U.S.
District Court, Central District of California (Los Angeles).  MF Futures Customers Compete to Lead Lawsuit Against Corzine  MF Global Inc. futures customers are competing to lead a
lawsuit against Jon Corzine, the parent company’s former chief
executive officer, over the alleged theft of $1.2 billion of
their assets.  Court filings show at least seven actions against Corzine
by futures customers in Manhattan federal court. Plaintiffs who
have nominated themselves to lead a potential group lawsuit
include Sapere CTA Fund LP, which sued Corzine and other former
 MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ)  executives for $90 million; Seattle
money manager William Fleckenstein, along with Kay P. Tee LLC, a
firm with a trading account at MF Global; and, together, Davide
Accomazzo and Roberto Calle Gracey, who said in court papers
they filed the first action on behalf of futures customers.  Futures customers currently are trying to persuade a judge
that their suits shouldn’t be consolidated with an investor suit
led by the Virginia Retirement System. While investors allege
that Corzine made misleading statements that inflated the prices
of MF Global securities, futures customers allege that he and
other executives misappropriated customer funds, according to
court papers.  Even the defendants and the laws they are alleged to have
violated are different, lawyers for Kay P. Tee said in a letter
filed in court Feb. 1. Investors allege securities fraud, while
futures customers file claims under commodity and U.S.
racketeering law, they said. Exchange CME Group Inc. and
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , banker to MF Global, are named in futures
customer suits, they said.  Andrew Levander, a lawyer for Corzine, didn’t respond to an
e-mail seeking comment on the lawsuits.  The main investor case is DeAngelis v. Corzine, 11-cv-7866,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Barclays, UniCredit Bankers Should Face Trial, Prosecutor Says  Former  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  Chief Executive Officer  Alessandro
Profumo  is among 20 UniCredit and  Barclays Plc (BARC)  executives facing
fraud charges in a tax-evasion probe led by a Milan prosecutor,
according to court documents.  Prosecutor Alfredo Robledo asked a court in the city to put
the 20 individuals on trial for fraudulent representation in
relation to an international investment plan known as Brontos,
he said in a court filing yesterday. A judge will rule on the
prosecutor’s request at a later date.  UniCredit, Italy’s largest bank, used the tax vehicle to
increase the bank’s “economic benefits,” Profumo said at the
company’s annual meeting in April 2010. Prosecutors have been
investigating Brontos since last year when they seized 246
million euros ($321 million) in bank assets.  Profumo, 54, said in a statement yesterday that he welcomes
the chance to be heard in court and he is convinced he acted
correctly. He stepped down as UniCredit CEO in September 2010.  A spokesman for UniCredit declined to comment, as did a
spokesman for Barclays in  London .  Brontos was conceived to mask interest on a deposit account
into dividends earned on fictitious securities, Robledo has said
in court documents. Interest earned on deposits is taxed in full
while dividends are taxed at 5 percent.  UniCredit in a November appeal won the return of the assets
that were seized as part of the probe, according to court
documents. UniCredit “remains convinced that both it and its
employees acted correctly,” the Milan-based lender said in an
October statement.  Vittorio Ogliengo, UniCredit’s co-head of financing and
advisory, and Barclays bankers Rupak Chandra and Stefano Filippi
are among those who may go to trial, court documents show.
Ogliengo, Chandra and Filippi didn’t return e-mails seeking
comment.  Group of 500 Female Wal-Mart Workers File U.S. Bias Claims  More than 500 former and current female  Wal-Mart Stores
Inc. (WMT)  employees filed sex-discrimination claims with the U.S.
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, their attorneys said.  The filings were made to preserve the women’s claims over
pay and promotions against the world’s largest retailer after
the U.S. Supreme Court last year said their cases couldn’t be
litigated in a nationwide class-action, or group, lawsuit.  “The fight continues to seek justice for the women
employees of Wal-Mart,” two of their lawyers, Joseph M. Sellers
and  Brad Seligman , said in a statement announcing the number of
EEOC claims filed through Jan. 27.  The Supreme Court, in a 5-4 decision June 20, said the
women failed to show a common corporate policy that led to
discrimination against workers at thousands of Wal-Mart and
Sam’s Club stores across the U.S.  The workers “provide no convincing proof of a company-wide
discriminatory pay and promotion policy,” said Justice Antonin
Scalia in the court’s majority opinion. Such a policy would help
justify allowing the claims to proceed as one lawsuit.  While the justices voted to reverse a lower-court ruling
allowing the women to sue as a group, four members of the high
court said they’d have ordered further proceedings.  “Anyone with a legitimate claim should have their day in
court,” Greg Rossiter, a spokesman for Bentonville, Arkansas-
based Wal-Mart, said yesterday in a telephone interview. “These
claims have never been heard on their merits.”  The Supreme Court case was Wal-Mart Stores Inc. v. Dukes,
10-277, U.S. Supreme Court (Washington).  For more, click here.  Stryker President’s Criminal Charges Dropped by Prosecutors  A former president at  Stryker Corp. (SYK)  won’t be prosecuted on
charges of marketing an unapproved mixture of two products for
strengthening human bone growth, U.S. lawyers told a judge.  The government will abandon its 2009 indictment of Mark
Philip, who ran Stryker Biotech LLC, prosecutors said yesterday
in federal court in Boston. The move follows the government’s
decision last month to drop charges during the trial of three
former Stryker sales representatives. During that trial, Stryker
pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor and paid a $15 million fine in
connection with the unapproved marketing of the drugs.  “Earlier today, the government had an opportunity to
review some documents that had previously been withheld as
privileged,” Assistant U.S. Attorney Jeremy M. Sternberg told
U.S. District Judge George O’Toole Jr. yesterday at a pre-trial
hearing. “After reviewing the documents, it’s the government’s
plan to file a motion to dismiss in the case against Mr.
Philip.”  The decision to drop charges against the fourth and final
defendant in the case marks a setback for the U.S. attorney’s
office in Massachusetts, which has led the nation in health-care
prosecutions in recent years. Philip, the president from 2004 to
2008, was charged with wire fraud and conspiracy. He faced as
long as 20 years in prison if convicted.  “We were able to give the government documents they had
not seen before that showed Mark acted in good faith,” said
Philip’s attorney, Stephen G. Huggard of Edwards Wildman Palmer
LLP. “We showed some of our defense.”  Huggard wouldn’t specify what the documents were. He said
the government hadn’t agreed to drop the case until an hour
before the hearing.  The case is U.S. v. Stryker Biotech LLC, 09-cr-10330, U.S.
District Court, District of Massachusetts (Boston).  For more, click here.  Macy’s Seeks Injunction in Martha Stewart Contract Suit  Macy’s Inc. (M)  asked a New York state Supreme Court justice to
issue a preliminary injunction against  Martha Stewart Living
Omnimedia Inc. (MSO)  in a filing Feb. 1 in Manhattan.  The retailer sued in New York state Supreme Court on Jan.
23 seeking to stop New York-based Martha Stewart Living from
executing a new sales agreement with  J.C. Penney Co. (JCP)  Macy’s,
based in Cincinnati, said it renewed a 2006 agreement for Martha
Stewart-branded products that expires in 2018.  In court documents filed Feb. 1, lawyers for Macy’s asked
Justice Jeffery K. Oing to issue the injunction, saying that the
agreement grants the retailer an exclusive right to make and
sell Martha Stewart products in certain categories and the right
to refuse to make and sell other products that are within Macy’s
product line.  An injunction is necessary to prevent Macy’s from
“suffering immediate, continuing and incalculable harm as a
result of the unexplained and unlawful breach by defendant
Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia Inc. of its exclusive license to
Macy’s,” lawyers for Macy’s said in the court documents.  “We value our relationship with Macy’s and are confident
that we are not breaching the terms of our agreement, Jeanne
Meyer, a spokeswoman for Martha Stewart Living, said in an e-
mail. ‘‘MSLO believes it’s good for our partners, our consumers
and our brand to have a wide range of Martha Stewart products
available in a variety of top retailers and we structure all of
our commercial agreements with this strategy in mind.”  The case is Macy’s Inc. v. Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia
Inc., 650197/2012, New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Trials/Appeals  Primary Global’s Fleishman Asks to Stay Free During Appeal  Former Primary Global Research LLC executive James
Fleishman, sentenced to 2 1/2 years in prison for his role in an
insider-trading scheme, is asking a federal appeals court in New
York to allow him to remain free on appeal.  Fleishman was convicted in September of two separate
conspiracy charges for what the U.S. said was a scheme to obtain
and pass along confidential information from technology company
employees who moonlighted as consultants for Mountain View,
California-based Primary Global, a so-called expert-networking
firm. The tips were given to fund managers who paid Primary
Global for consultation calls, prosecutors said.  In December, U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff in Manhattan
denied Fleishman’s request to dismiss his conviction or grant
him a new trial. Rakoff ordered Fleishman to surrender to U.S.
Bureau of Prisons officials by Feb.7.  “Mr. Fleishman will present substantial questions on
appeal, and therefore this court should order bail pending
appeal,” his lawyer,  Ethan Balogh , said in court papers filed
Jan. 31 with the U.S. Court of Appeals in New York.  Balogh said prosecutors failed to establish that any acts
committed to further the conspiracy occurred in New York. He
also said Fleishman, of Santa Clara, California, was improperly
barred from testifying in his own defense after he was directed
to turn over his personal diaries to prosecutors.  “This appeal will present a novel question, and the
government’s analysis reveals the weakness of its position,”
Balogh said in court papers. He didn’t return a voice-mail
message seeking comment on the filing.  The case is U.S. v. Nguyen, 11-cr-32, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  J&J Hid Risperdal Studies to Boost Drug Sales, Lawyer Says  Johnson & Johnson  hid studies showing its Risperdal anti-
psychotic drug caused diabetes to protect billions of dollars in
sales, a lawyer said in the first personal-injury claim over the
medication to go to trial.  Researchers at J&J’s Janssen unit knew as early as 1999
that a study found Risperdal caused diabetes at a higher rate
than a competing drug and failed to hand over the results to
regulators probing links between the disease and anti-psychotic
medicines, Fletch Trammell, a lawyer for a former Risperdal
user, told a  New Jersey  jury yesterday in opening statements.  “The evidence will show Janssen buried studies for a
competitive advantage,” Trammell told jurors in state court in
New Brunswick, New Jersey. J&J, the world’s second-largest
health-products maker, is  based  in the city.  The trial of Gary Skala’s claims that his 14 years’ worth
of Risperdal use caused his diabetes began two weeks after J&J
agreed to pay $158 million to settle Texas officials’ claims
that it fraudulently marketed the drug.  While J&J has faced four states’ claims that it defrauded
Medicaid programs by misleading doctors and regulators about
Risperdal’s diabetes risks, Skala’s case is the first brought by
an individual patient to be presented to a jury.  The drugmaker contends that the study evaluating
Risperdal’s diabetes risk against that posed by  Eli Lilly &
Co .’s Zyprexa anti-psychotic medication was flawed and that’s
why it wasn’t made public, one of the company’s lawyers told
jurors yesterday.  “Nothing was buried, nothing was hidden and no one was
tricked,” Jeffrey Peck, a lawyer for J&J, said in his opening
statement.  The New Jersey case is Skala v.  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , MID-
L-6820-06 (MT), Superior Court of New Jersey, Law Division,
Middlesex County (New Brunswick).  For more, click here.  Stanford Financial’s Davis Says Founder Conspired in Fraud  Former Stanford Financial Group Co. finance chief James
Davis, testifying as a U.S. government witness, said company
founder R.  Allen Stanford  conspired with him in an investment
fraud.  Davis, who pleaded guilty to three felony charges in August
2009 and agreed to cooperate with prosecutors, began testifying
yesterday against his former boss and Baylor University roommate
at Stanford’s criminal trial in federal court in Houston.  Asked by Assistant U.S. Attorney William Stellmach if he
committed any crimes at Houston-based Stanford Financial Group,
Davis replied, “Yes sir, I did.”  Davis told the court he lied about the truthfulness of the
statements of Stanford International Bank Ltd., the Antigua-
based financial institution prosecutors say sold fraudulent
certificates of deposit to investors.  “I lied about the nature of these investments,” Davis
said.  Stellmach then asked, “Who conspired with you to commit
those crimes?” Davis replied, “Mr. Allen Stanford and
others.”  Stanford, 61, is accused of leading a $7 billion investment
fraud scheme. Charged with 14 criminal counts including mail
fraud, wire fraud and obstruction of a U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission probe, the financier maintains he isn’t
guilty.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09-cr-342, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston).  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  Deutsche Bank Told to Pay $19.7 Million Over Currency Option  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , Germany’s biggest bank, was ordered to
pay 15 million euros ($19.7 million) in a lawsuit over a
currency option product it sold to a client.  The Frankfurt Regional Court yesterday ruled partly in
favor of German travel company Schauinsland-Reisen GmbH, which
had sought 30 million euros. The judges ruled the company was
experienced in using options to hedge currency risks, so it was
partly responsible for its losses, court spokesman Arne Hasse
said.  “When Deutsche Bank first sold the product it didn’t have
to warn about risks, as the structure of the option could be
easily understood,” Hasse said. “But when additional options
were bought after first losses and the risks increased, the bank
at some point should have warned its customer about the risk
accumulation.”  Germany’s highest civil court last year said the Frankfurt-
based lender had to cover losses caused by a product it called a
“CMS Spread Ladder Swap” because the bank didn’t disclose the
product had an initial negative market value. The judges
yesterday didn’t adopt the top court’s reasoning because the
currency derivatives weren’t as complicated as the CMS swaps,
Hasse said.  Deutsche Bank failed to prove that it properly warned
Schauinsland-Reisen as the risks increased, Hasse said. About 60
follow-up derivatives were sold, he said.  Deutsche Bank spokesman Christian Streckert said the lender
will only comment when it’s received the written judgment. It
will then decide whether to appeal, he said.  Yesterday’s case is LG Frankfurt am Main, 3-04 O 50/10.  For more, click here.  India’s Supreme Court Scraps Mobile Licenses Amid 2G Probe  India’s Supreme Court canceled 122 mobile-phone permits
whose sale in 2008 sparked the nation’s biggest corruption
investigation and led to the jailing of a former minister.  Shares of  Unitech Ltd. (UT) , part of the group that bought
licenses used by Norway’s  Telenor ASA (TEL)  for its operations in
India, slumped in Mumbai as the court scrapped the permits and
ordered operators to pay as much as 50 million rupees ($1
million) as penalty, according to the ruling by judges G.S.
Singhvi and A.K. Ganguly.  India’s auditor said in a 2010 report the sale of the
airwaves lacked transparency and ineligible bidders bought them
at “unbelievably low” prices, denying the treasury of as much
as $31 billion.  Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI) , India’s largest wireless
operator, surged the most in 19 months on speculation the
carrier may win more spectrum when the government reallocates
the frequencies released by the cancellations.  “Finally, some action is being taken on the scam,” said
Deepti Chaturvedi, executive director of equity research at CLSA
India Ltd. in Mumbai. “I wouldn’t jump to the conclusion” the
cancellations would help incumbents like Bharti, since the
spectrum would likely be auctioned, she said.  Former telecommunications minister Andimuthu Raja, who has
denied all wrongdoing, is in jail in New Delhi facing trial,
while former officials in his ministry and a lawmaker got bail.  Uninor, the Indian venture between Telenor and Unitech
Group, said it had been “unfairly treated,” according to an e-
mailed statement yesterday. It will continue operations for the
time being and “exercise all options available to ensure that
Uninor continues to operate in India.”  Tata Teleservices Ltd., Unitech Wireless, and DB Realty
Ltd. have each been ordered to pay 50 million rupees in
penalties, while Loop Telecom and Sistema Shyam Teleservices
have been ordered to pay 20 million rupees each.  The government will abide by the court’s verdict and
prepare rules for auctioning the airwaves, Kapil Sibal, minister
of communications and information technology, told reporters in
New Delhi yesterday. The ministry will “delink” the spectrum
it provides to carriers from the permits, he said.  For more, click here.  Dow, DuPont, Denki Lose EU Appeal to Cut Rubber Cartel Fines  DuPont Co. (DD) ,  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW) , and  Denki Kagaku Kogyo KK (4061) 
lost bids to overturn antitrust fines by the European Union for
claims they colluded to fix prices in the rubber chemical
industry.  The European Commission was right in the findings and fines
it imposed for the cartel, the EU’s General Court said in three
separate rulings for the companies.  The EU’s antitrust regulator has “wide discretion as
regards the methods of calculating fines” and didn’t err in the
amounts or the fines themselves, the Luxembourg-based tribunal
said yesterday.  Five companies were fined a total of 247.6 million euros
($325 million) in 2007 by the commission, the European Union’s
antitrust regulator, for colluding on prices for chloroprene
rubber, used to make latex rubber, from at least 1993 to 2002,
the commission said. Bayer AG, Germany’s largest drugmaker and
another repeat offender, escaped a 201 million euro fine, as it
had told the regulator about the cartel. An appeal by  Eni SpA (ENI) ,
which received the heaviest fine, is pending.  “DuPont is disappointed with the decision” and is
considering whether to appeal, Eduardo Menchaca, a spokesman for
the company, said yesterday.  Dow will appeal the ruling “as we continue to remain
convinced of the correctness of our position,” the company said
in an e-mailed statement.  Naoshi Fukawa, a spokesman for Denki Kagaku in Tokyo, said
the company can’t comment until it has read the ruling.  DuPont received a 15 million-euro fine and Dow was fined
4.4 million euros individually. The commission fined their
former joint venture 44.3 million euros, to be shared by the two
companies. Dow transferred its stake in the joint venture to
Wilmington, Delaware-based DuPont in 2005 and it was renamed
DuPont Performance Elastomers LLC.  Eni, Italy’s largest oil company, got a 60 percent fine
increase to 132.2 million euros for being a repeat offender. Its
appeal is being reviewed separately.  Tosoh Corp. (4042) , a Japan petrochemical maker, didn’t fight the
decision after receiving a 50 percent cut in its fine for
cooperating with the investigation.  The cases are T-76/08 Pending Case, E.I. du Pont de Nemours
and others v Commission; T-77/08 Pending Case, Dow Chemical v
Commission; T-83/08 Pending Case, Denki Kagaku Kogyo and Denka
Chemicals v Commission.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 