-- Khamenei Vows Iran Won’t Abandon Nuclear Work as U.S. Differs With Israel
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e   a n d   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 2012-02-03T23:26:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/khamenei-vows-iran-won-t-abandon-nuclear-work-as-u-s-differs-with-israel.html
Iran ’s leader said it won’t back down
in the confrontation over its nuclear program, as the U.S. and
Israel disagreed publicly over timing for a potential military
attack.  The allies have a “significant analytic difference” over
how close Iran is to shielding the nuclear program from attack,
 Aaron David Miller , a Mideast peace negotiator in the Clinton
administration, said yesterday in an interview. “There’s a
growing concern -- more than a concern -- that the Israelis, in
order to protect themselves, might launch a strike without
approval, warning or even foreknowledge.”  In Iran, Supreme Leader  Ayatollah Ali Khamenei  said
yesterday that his nation won’t abandon its nuclear efforts and
warned that a strike would damage U.S. interests in the  Middle
East  “10 times over,” according to the  Associated Press .  Referring to Israel as a “cancerous tumor” that will be
cut, Khamenei said in his Friday sermon that “if any nation or
any group confronts the Zionist regime, we will help.”  Differences over how to stop Iran’s nuclear activities were
underscored by public comments this week by Israeli and U.S.
defense officials.  Israeli Defense Minister  Ehud Barak  said Feb. 2 that Israel
must consider conducting “an operation” before Iran reaches an
“immunity zone,” referring to Iran’s goal of protecting its
 uranium enrichment  and other nuclear operations by moving them
to deep underground facilities such as one at Fordo, near the
holy city of Qom.  ‘Nearing Readiness’  “The world has no doubt that  Iran’s nuclear program  is
steadily nearing readiness and is about to enter an immunity
zone,” Barak said in an address to the annual Herzliya
Conference at the Interdisciplinary Center campus north of Tel
Aviv. “If the sanctions don’t achieve their goal of halting
Iran’s nuclear weapons program, there will arise the need of
weighing an operation.”  While Israelis think Iran will reach the immunity zone in
“half the time the Americans think it will,” Miller said it’s
“by and large an overstatement” to describe that difference as
a growing rift.  The U.S. holds the view that “there is still time and
space to pursue diplomacy” with Iran, State Department
spokesman Mark Toner said yesterday in Washington. He said the
U.S. “is absolutely committed to preventing Iran from getting
nuclear weapons.”  Panetta’s Concerns  U.S. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  declined to comment
directly on a report by Washington Post columnist David Ignatius
that Panetta believes there is a strong likelihood  Israel  will
strike Iran in April, May or June. Panetta and other U.S.
officials have repeatedly warned Israel not to act alone.  “Israel has indicated that they’re considering this”
through public statements, Panetta told reporters traveling with
him on Feb. 2 in Brussels. “And we have indicated our
concerns.”  Tension and distrust between President  Barack Obama  and
Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  may be complicating
communications on the issue, according to a U.S. defense
official who declined to be identified because he wasn’t
authorized to speak to the news media.  Defense officials have been concerned that Obama hasn’t
warned Netanyahu directly enough about the risks of an Israeli
preemptive strike on Iran’s nuclear facilities, including
Iranian retaliation against U.S. bases in Kuwait, Bahrain and
Qatar, according to the official.  ‘Working Together’  James Clapper , the U.S. director of national intelligence,
said Jan. 31 that communication with Israel is good. “We’re
doing a lot with the Israelis, working together with them,” he
told the Senate intelligence panel.  The chairman of the U.S. Joint Chiefs of Staff, General
Martin Dempsey, said in a Jan. 26 interview with National
Journal he told Israeli leaders last month that it is
“premature” to resort to military force because sanctions are
starting to have an impact on Iran.  Lawmakers in  Washington  are pressing to ratchet up the
economic pressure.  The Senate Banking Committee unanimously approved a bill on
Feb. 2 that targets Iran-related banking transactions, Iran’s
national oil company and leading tanker fleet and joint ventures
in mining and energy projects. It also would require corporate
disclosure of Iran-related activity to the Securities and
Exchange Commission.  Financial Transactions  One provision calls on the administration to provide a
report to Congress within 60 days detailing Iran-related
financial transactions facilitated by the Society for Worldwide
Interbank Financial Telecommunication, the Belgian member-owned
institution known as Swift, and its competitors. The measure
would give the president authority to sanction them for
facilitating such transfers. A similar bill, with stronger
language mandating the imposition of sanctions, was submitted in
the House.  While leaders of both countries agree that time must be
given to gauge the impact of economic sanctions on Iran,
Israel’s patience is shorter than that of the U.S., said Ephraim Kam, deputy director of  Tel Aviv  University’s Institute for
National Security Studies.  “It will take at least six months to see whether sanctions
are effective and by then it may be too late,” said Kam, author
of the 2007 book, “A Nuclear Iran: What Does it Mean, and What
Can be Done.”  ‘Different Clocks’  “We’re definitely using different clocks,” he said.  Israeli Army Chief of Staff Lieutenant-General Benny Gantz
told the Herzliya conference on Feb. 1 that his nation must be
“willing to deploy” its military assets because Iran may be
within a year of gaining nuclear weapons capability. Gantz said
international sanctions are starting to show some results.  Moshe Yaalon, Israel’s vice prime minister and its former
top military commander, played down Iran’s ability to shelter
its activities from a military attack.  “It’s possible to strike all Iran’s facilities, and I say
that out of my experience as IDF chief of staff,” he said at
the conference, referring to the Israeli Defense Forces.  The U.S., its European allies and the  International Atomic
Energy Agency  have challenged the government in Tehran to prove
that its nuclear work is intended only for energy and medical
research, as Iranian officials maintain. An IAEA inspection team
is scheduled to hold hold talks in Iran Feb. 21 and Feb. 22,
following up a three-day session that ended Jan. 31 without a
breakthrough.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Ferziger in Tel Aviv at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  