-- Susan G. Komen Says Criticism Unfounded as Planned Parenthood Gains Funds
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o   a n d   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-02-03T13:09:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/komen-says-criticism-unfounded-as-planned-parenthood-gains-funds.html
Susan G. Komen for the Cure , a  breast
cancer  advocacy group, moved to blunt criticism of its decision
to end funding for Planned Parenthood, even as dissent erupted
within its own ranks and a wave of Web appeals was on the verge
of replacing the money.  Planned Parenthood Federation of America  received $400,000
from 6,000 donors as of Feb. 1, said Shawn Rhea, a spokeswoman,
and the group said yesterday pledges were coming at such a pace
they couldn’t immediately update the amount. Three large donors
also surfaced: The Amy and Lee Fikes’ Foundation, run by the
head of closely held Bonanza Oil Co. in  Dallas , promised
$250,000; New York Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  said he would match
the next $250,000; and Credo, a phone company, pledged $200,000.  The Komen foundation’s decision not to continue grants for
16 of 19 local Planned Parenthood affiliates sparked questions
about its motives after Planned Parenthood said the action was
prompted by pressure from anti-abortion forces. Critics and
supporters were busy on the Internet with comment and petitions.  “This is a difficult issue made more difficult by the
gross mischaracterization” of Komen’s intent, said Elizabeth
Thompson, the Dallas-based group’s president, in a conference
call with reporters.  Komen ended the Planned Parenthood grants after the
foundation reviewed grant criteria, and decided to include a
rule denying money to any organization under federal, state or
local investigation, Chief Executive Officer Nancy Brinker said
during the call. The decision was not political, she said.  House Inquiry  The foundation cited a probe by Representative  Cliff Stearns , a Florida Republican and chairman of the House Energy
and Commerce Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee, into
whether New York-based Planned Parenthood is illegally using
government money for abortions.  No other group has been told it won’t be receiving grants
under the new criteria, though some “probably do” provide
abortions, Brinker said. “We ask a lot of questions” of
grantees, “but that’s not one of them.”  Mollie Williams, a former managing director for community
health programs, resigned in January, according to her LinkedIn
profile, a move that occurred after the board decided in
December to withdraw the Planned Parenthood funds.  Thompson yesterday said she wouldn’t discuss Williams’
resignation. Williams didn’t respond to an e-mailed request for
comment. On her Twitter account, Williams on Jan. 20 wrote an
update suggesting her followers sign a “thank you” card from
Planned Parenthood for President  Barack Obama  for his support of
birth control coverage.  ‘Prayers Go Out’  “I am overwhelmed by the love and support I received
today,”  she wrote  on Twitter. “Thank you for your words of
encouragement. My prayers go out to all involved.”  Komen, which provides $93 million in grants to local
communities for breast-cancer education, screening and
treatment, is known for the pink ribbons it first distributed to
breast-cancer survivors and participants of the Komen New York
City Race for the Cure in 1991, according to its website.  The foundation also funds research on the disease. Brinker
founded the group in 1982 after her sister,  Susan G. Komen , died
of breast cancer.  “The essence of the organization” has been obscured by
the Planned Parenthood dispute, Brinker said on the call.  Three Affiliates  Planned Parenthood affiliates in Northern Colorado, Waco,
 Texas , and Orange County, California, will continue to receive
Komen funding because they’re the only providers of breast-
cancer services in their area, she said.  Only the affiliate in Denver has been notified that it
qualified to apply for the grants, said Rhea, of Planned
Parenthood.  “This one affiliate has been invited to apply for the next
year,” Rhea said. “But it’s important to note that these are
very short-term solutions to what is the long-term issue of
needing to provide much-needed breast care for women.”  Planned Parenthood advocates abortion rights and provides
abortion services as well as offering breast exams and mammogram
referrals. Komen grants paid for about 4.3 percent of the 4
million breast exams and 9 percent of the 70,000 mammogram
referrals provided at clinics in the past five years.  Planned Parenthood has created an emergency fund to help
local health centers continue offering breast-cancer services,
the group  said .  Fikes, Bloomberg Donations  The donation from the Fikes foundation was made “so that
their health centers across the country can continue to put the
real needs of women ahead of right wing ideology,” according to
a statement on the group’s website. Lee Fikes didn’t return a
call to the offices of Bonanza Oil seeking comment.  “Politics has no place in health care,” Bloomberg, the
New York mayor, said in the statement about his donation.
“Breast cancer screening saves lives and hundreds of thousands
of women rely on Planned Parenthood for access to care. We
should be helping women access that care, not placing barriers
in their way.” Bloomberg is the founder and majority owner of
Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  Most online comments about Komen’s action were downbeat,
according to  NetBase Solutions Inc. , a  Mountain View ,
California-based company whose software reads and interprets
50,000 sentences a minute from billions of social media sources.  Two-thirds of more than 3,600 sentiments expressed online
about the split were negative, with people calling it
“outrageous,” and saying it did “irreparable harm” to the
organization, NetBase said.  Web Petitions  About 250,000 people have signed a petition on the website
 MoveOn.org , a political supporter of President Barack Obama,
calling on Komen to reverse its decision, Sarah Lane, a
spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. MoveOn is planning other efforts
to pressure Komen to restore funding, she said. San Francisco-
based  Credo , the mobile phone provider that’s Planned
Parenthood’s largest corporate funder, also has a petition.  Those petitions were countered by groups such as
 thankskomen.com , which said it opposed Planned Parenthood,
invited people to give their personal information and have the
option of being kept informed about “pro-life developments.”  Some of the political context has centered on the Komen
group’s April hiring of Karen Handel as senior vice president of
public policy. Handel joined the organization after an
unsuccessful Republican campaign for governor in  Georgia .  In that race, Handel wrote on her blog that she would
eliminate any state grants for organizations such as Planned
Parenthood which, she wrote, “I do not support.”  Handel Blog  Handel’s blog posting was a response to a campaign attack
targeting her 2005 vote, as a county commissioner, approving a
$425,000 grant for Planned Parenthood. She defended that vote in
the same posting as support for pass-through funding of state
and federal dollars for breast and cervical cancer screening.
Handel didn’t return a call to Komen seeking comment.  House Democratic leader  Nancy Pelosi  of  California  said she
was saddened by the dispute between the two women’s health
groups.  “I know them to be an organization much admired, very
professional, caring about women,” Pelosi said at a press
briefing in  Washington  when asked about the Komen group’s
action. “And I find this to be unfortunate. But I don’t
attribute any motivation. I just don’t know why they would do
such a thing.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in New York at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  