-- Komen Reverses Stance on Planned Parenthood
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o   a n d   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-02-03T18:48:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/komen-will-continue-existing-planned-parenthood-grants-after-pulling-funds.html
Susan G. Komen for the Cure, a
 breast-cancer  advocacy organization, reversed its decision to
end $680,000 in funding for Planned Parenthood Federation of
America Inc., and said it is changing its grant criteria as a
result of controversy over the original ruling.  After Komen’s decision to end the grants became public,
Planned Parenthood raised about $3 million in pledges from more
than 10,000 donors, Cecile Richards, Planned Parenthood’s
president, said in a call with reporters. Komen announced its
reversal in a statement today with an apology “to the American
public” from Chief Executive Officer Nancy Brinker.  Previously, Dallas-based Komen had said grant rules 
approved by its board eliminated donations to any group under 
investigation by the U.S., states or communities. Planned 
Parenthood said Komen’s action was spurred by pressure from 
anti-abortion forces, sparking a torrid Internet debate.  Komen cited as a reason for the fund withdrawal a probe by 
Representative  Cliff Stearns , a Florida Republican and chairman 
of the House Energy and Commerce Oversight and Investigations 
Subcommittee, into whether New York-based Planned Parenthood is 
illegally using government money for abortions.  `Right and Fair'  The newest Komen criteria say investigations must be
“criminal and conclusive in nature and not political” to
affect grant funding, Brinker said in the statement. “That is
what is right and fair.”  Among Planned Parenthood’s $3 million in pledges were
$700,000 from three large benefactors, including New York Mayor
 Michael Bloomberg .  “We are enormously grateful that the Komen Foundation has
clarified its grantmaking criteria, and we look forward to
continuing our  partnership with Komen partners, leaders and
volunteers,” Richards said today in a statement released before
the conference call.  Planned Parenthood helps the Komen foundation reach low-
income women, particularly in rural areas and underserved
communities, according to the statement.  Komen was the most valuable non-profit brand in the world,
according to a 2010 report by  Harris Interactive , a  New York- 
based market research firm. Concerns the brand would be affected
by the debate may have contributed to the reversal, said Mike Paul, president of MGP & Associates, a New York-based reputation
management firm.  Building Up Trust  “They’re going to have to build up trust,” Paul said in a
telephone interview. “All the good will you built up could be
gone in an instant.”  What has been a powerful brand with ties to the  National
Football League  now may be joined to politics, Paul said.
“People wanted to be associated with every single thing they
did. And now we hear politics and policy has influence. The same
affinity people had on the positive side became the same
affinity they’ve having on the negative perspective,” he said.  Social media fueled the wildfire-like spread of the
controversy, he said, adding, “the conversation that used to be
only over the dinner table is now in a tweet or a Facebook
status update in the millions.”  Two-thirds of more than 3,600 sentiments expressed online
about the split were negative to Komen, according to  NetBase
Solutions Inc.,  a  Mountain View , California-based company whose
software reads and interprets 50,000 sentences a minute from
billions of social media sources.  Internet Petitions  About 250,000 people have signed a petition on the website
MoveOn.org, a political supporter of President  Barack Obama ,
calling on Komen to reverse its decision, Sarah Lane, a
spokeswoman, said in an e-mail yesterday. San Francisco-based
Credo, the mobile phone provider that’s Planned Parenthood’s
largest corporate funder, also has a petition.  Those petitions were countered by groups such as
thankskomen.com, which said it opposed Planned Parenthood,  Komen provides $93 million in grants to local communities
for breast-cancer education, screening and treatment. It is
known for the pink ribbons it first distributed to breast-cancer
survivors and participants of the Komen New York City Race for
the Cure in 1991, according to its website. The foundation also
funds research on the disease.  “The essence of the organization” has been obscured by
the Planned Parenthood dispute, Brinker said on a call with
reporters yesterday. Brinker founded the group in 1982 after her
sister, Susan G. Komen, died of breast cancer.  Abortion Rights  Planned Parenthood advocates abortion rights and provides
abortion services as well as offering breast exams and mammogram
referrals. Komen grants paid for about 4.3 percent of the 4
million breast exams and 9 percent of the 70,000 mammogram
referrals provided at clinics in the past five years.  Bloomberg said yesterday he would match the next $250,000
Planned Parenthood received from donors, following a pledge by
The Amy and Lee Fikes’ Foundation, run by the head of closely
held Bonanza Oil Co. in  Dallas , to contribute $250,000, and
Credo to donate $200,000. Bloomberg is the founder and majority
owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in New York at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net ;
Drew Armstrong in New York at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  