-- Kuwait Opposition Wins 60% of Parliament Seats as Women, Liberals Lose Out
-- B y   F i o n a   M a c D o n a l d
-- 2012-02-03T09:03:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/kuwait-opposition-wins-majority-in-parliament-women-liberals-lose-seats.html
Kuwait ’s opposition won a majority in
the country’s new parliament in elections that saw gains for
Islamists and a defeat for liberals and women.  Opposition supporters won at least 32 seats, up from about
20 in the previous National Assembly, according to official
results released today. Women, who in May 2009 won their first
four seats in the 50-member assembly, lost all four of them.
Islamist politicians from Kuwait’s Sunni Muslim community took
more than 20 seats, and four of the seven successful Shiite
candidates were Islamists.  “It’s beyond all expectations, we have extremism on all
fronts and it’s going to be very explosive,” said Abdullah Al- Shayji, chairman of the political science department at Kuwait
University. Islamists “will run the show, they will control the
tempo. The government will have a hard time dealing with this.”  Repeated clashes between lawmakers and the government over
how to share power have led to a series of parliament
dissolutions and Cabinet resignations in OPEC’s fourth-biggest
oil producer, slowing economic growth and delaying key
investment projects.  Yesterday’s election, the fourth in less than six years,
followed months of unprecedented anti-government demonstrations
sparked by corruption allegations against Sheikh Nasser Al-
Mohammed Al-Sabah, who quit as prime minister in November. That
prompted Emir Sheikh Sabah Al-Ahmad Al-Jaber Al-Sabah, his
uncle, to dissolve parliament and call elections.  ‘Corruption Files’  “We tell the government and its supporters that we will
open all corruption files,” Obaid al-Wasmi, a newly elected
lawmaker and law professor at Kuwait University, said on
Twitter. “The Kuwait of today won’t be the same as the Kuwait
of yesterday.”  The turnout, which hasn’t been officially announced, was
probably the largest in Kuwait’s history, al-Shayji said. About
400,000 people were entitled to vote in a country where a third
of the population of 3.6 million is Kuwaiti.  The opposition has vowed to use its strength in the
assembly to press for measures that would legalize political
parties and let the elected assembly choose a government.
Currently, Kuwait’s emir appoints the premier, and parliament
has more powers to block legislation than initiate it.  Constitutional Monarchy  The opposition movement includes Islamists, liberals and
independents, as well as youth groups who cite inspiration from
the Arab protests that swept away longtime leaders in Tunisia,
Egypt and  Libya . Some groups demand a constitutional monarchy
and elected government. Others say their focus is fighting
corruption and are calling for political reform without amending
the constitution.  The Kuwaiti movement represents “the soft side of the Arab
Spring,” al-Shayji said. Women candidates “paid the price for
their lackluster performance and towing the government line,”
while liberals were “hammered,” he said.  Opposition candidates have accused the government of delays
in implementation of Kuwait’s $111 billion investment plan,
which includes expanding oil and gas production and building
transport networks, cities, universities, hospitals, a new port
and airport, and power stations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fiona MacDonald in Kuwait at 
 fmacdonald4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ben Holland at 
 bholland1@bloomberg.net  