-- MTN Falls Most in Month After Turkcell Lawsuit Threat: Johannesburg Mover
-- B y   J a n i c e   K e w   a n d   E r c a n   E r s o y
-- 2012-02-03T15:35:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/mtn-falls-most-in-month-after-turkcell-lawsuit-threat-johannesburg-mover.html
MTN Group Ltd. (MTN) ,  Africa ’s largest
mobile-phone operator, dropped the most in a month after saying
 Turkcell Iletisim Hizmetleri AS (TCELL)  may file a lawsuit against the
company over the acquisition of an operating license in Iran.  The shares fell 1.7 percent to 135.99 rand at the close,
and the stock was the most traded by value on the  Johannesburg
Stock Exchange . MTN has slid 3.9 percent over the past  six
months  compared with a 13 percent gain in the  FTSE/JSE Africa
All Share Index (JALSH) , lowering its market value to 256 billion rand
($33.8 billion).  “If the claim is passed through, it could be a significant
amount,”Sameera Cassim, an analyst at Afrifocus Securities
Ltd., said by phone from  Cape Town . “MTN is suffering with
sanctions and the Nigerian economic issues. For something else
negative to come up is damaging.”  Turkcell alleges MTN made “improper payments” to an
Iranian and a South African government official in 2004 and 2005
to secure its license, Johannesburg-based MTN said in a
statement yesterday. MTN said there are no grounds for a
lawsuit. With 33.3 million customers, Iran is MTN’s second-
largest market by subscribers after  Nigeria , accounting for
about 9 percent of first-half  sales  and 8 percent of earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization.  Turkcell said in an e-mailed response to questions that
it’s in talks with MTN and has “good intentions” to help reach
a successful conclusion. Existing compensation claims are
continuing in the courts, Istanbul-based Turkcell said, without
providing further details. It didn’t mention any new claims it
planned to make.  Probing Allegations  On Jan. 5 MTN posted its biggest two-day decline in three
years in Johannesburg on concern about possible sanctions that
may be imposed by the U.S. and the European Union against  Iran ,
where it has a 44 percent share of the mobile-phone market.  Turkcell “believes it has a claim against MTN,” and
 Turkey ’s biggest mobile-phone operator has “indicated an
intention to bring such a claim before a U.S. court,” MTN said.
“Irrespective of the validity of Turkcell’s claims, the very
fact that such allegations have been made is serious,” MTN
Chairman  Cyril Ramaphosa  said in a separate statement. MTN has
set up a committee to probe the claims.  “This does further reputational damage to MTN,” Aadil
Omar, an analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd., said by phone from
Johannesburg. “There is a lot at stake. Iran is a significant
market for MTN. The big question is what does Turkcell get out
of this. What jurisdiction does the U.S. have over MTN, a South
African-domiciled company, in regard to an Iranian matter?”  Deal Reversed  Turkcell won the Iranian auction for the license in 2004
for 300 million euros ($393 million), with MTN the runner-up.
The deal suffered a setback in 2005 when Iran’s parliament
ordered Turkcell to reduce its stake to 49 percent from
70 percent, ruling that foreign control of the joint venture may
threaten national security. Turkcell refused and the license was
offered to MTN, which agreed to the lower stake.  Turkcell alleges that MTN encouraged the South African
government to back Iran’s civil nuclear power development
program at a meeting of the  International Atomic Energy Agency 
in November 2005 and that MTN enlisted South African government
support for the supply of military equipment to Iran, MTN said.  “Turkcell has intimated a range of putative claim amounts,
the nominal value of which, if formally asserted, would be
material,” it said. “No basis for any such claim amount has
been substantiated to date. MTN has zero tolerance for
corruption.”  A claim against the company could take years to settle,
Afrifocus’s Cassim said. Xolisa Vapi, a spokesman for MTN, said
the company won’t comment further on the matter.  “It’s only an accusation,” David Lerche, an analyst at
Avior Research Ltd., said by phone. “If you look at the time
frame, from 2005 to now, I suspect there’s not a very strong
case at all.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Janice Kew in Johannesburg at 
 jkew4@bloomberg.net ;
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  