-- NATO’s Defense Ministers See Combat Operations in Afghanistan Through 2014
-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r   a n d   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2012-02-03T00:03:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/nato-s-defense-ministers-see-combat-operations-in-afghanistan-through-2014.html
NATO defense ministers meeting in
Brussels agreed that their soldiers in  Afghanistan  will need to
continue combat operations in a support role even after Afghan
forces take the lead on the way to full responsibility for
security.  U.S. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  reconfirmed yesterday
that he hoped the coalition’s lead combat role throughout the
country would shift to Afghan national security forces by the
end of 2013, with the NATO-led troops continuing to play a
support role through 2014.  His counterparts and NATO Secretary General Anders Fogh Rasmussen demurred on the date, leaving it to the alliance’s
heads of state to make the announcement at their May summit in
 Chicago , to be hosted by President  Barack Obama .  The diplomatic gambits produced confusion as a succession
of U.S. and NATO officials sought to tamp down talk of divisions
in the 50-nation coalition triggered by  France ’s announcement
last week of an early pullout of its combat troops and Panetta’s
indications that the alliance may wind down active operations
sooner than planned.  En route to the Brussels meeting, Panetta said Feb. 1 that
the coalition would begin the final stage of the handover in the
middle of 2013, while remaining equipped for combat through
2014.  Republican Criticism  Panetta’s comments drew criticism from Republican lawmakers
in  Washington , who said the U.S. may risk ending operations in
Afghanistan early even though the Taliban remain a threat.  “I’m concerned about the announcement that was made
yesterday that we’re going to end all combat roles in 2013 and
just be in a supporting role,” Representative Mac Thornberry, a
Texas Republican, said yesterday at a hearing of the House
Intelligence Committee.  Central Intelligence Agency Director David Petraeus, the
former top U.S. and NATO commander in Afghanistan, responded
that Panetta was talking about a “progressive transition”
toward transferring security responsibilities to Afghan forces,
not a change in the 2014 goal.  “The idea is that we gradually stop leading combat
operations, the Afghan forces gradually take the leadership,”
Petraeus told the panel. “It’s a successive series of
transitions that take place.”  “There was certainly no division of opinion in any of the
meetings that I attended,” Panetta told reporters traveling
with him yesterday.  Transition to Support  “Everybody understands that there is going to be a
transition here as we move toward Afghan control in these
areas,” Panetta said. “As we make that transition, our role
will obviously become one of support.”  When asked the meaning of the Afghans taking the lead,
Panetta said they would determine “patrols, tactics, enemy
targets. We’ll be there for support, we’ll be there for
guidance, but they’re the ones that are going to be in the
lead and conduct the operations.”  At issue are the timing and conditions for the gradual
handover as members of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization
and other nations contributing troops look for ways to reduce
their forces in the more than decade-long conflict. The U.S.
leads about 130,000 personnel, including 89,000 of its own after
withdrawing the first 10,000 last year.  No one in the meetings yesterday talked about cutting troop
levels, said a NATO official authorized to speak with reporters
only on condition of anonymity.  The discussion centered on how to manage the transition to
Afghan control within terms that NATO heads of state endorsed in
their previous meeting in Lisbon in 2010, the official said.
That agreement set the transition process to begin in 2011, as
it did, and to be completed by the end of 2014.  Combat Throughout  “To complete the transition by the end of 2014, we will of
course have to hand over lead responsibility to the Afghans some
time before,” Rasmussen told reporters at NATO headquarters
yesterday after the first day of meetings that continue today.
“Exactly when, we don’t know yet. Let me stress: We will
conduct combat operations throughout the transition period.”  The coalition, known as the  International Security
Assistance Force , or ISAF, is in the process of handing over
control in a second group of provinces, districts and cities.
Force commanders are working with the Afghan government to
determine which areas would be included in the third of what
they expect will be four or five phases.  “There’s much hard fighting ahead here,” Panetta said.
The top NATO commander in Afghanistan, U.S. Marine General John
Allen, “made clear that this is no time to let up on the
pressure” on the Taliban, the defense chief said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Viola Gienger in Brussels at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net ;
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  