-- New York Giants Fans Recall Howell’s Glory Years: Sports Books
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   S h r i b m a n
-- 2012-02-03T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/new-york-giants-fans-recall-jim-lee-howell-s-glory-years-sports-books.html
Before  Tom Brady  and  Eli Manning ,
before  Brett Favre ,  Joe Namath ,  Joe Montana  and  John Elway ,
there was Bart Starr. He was “ America’s Quarterback ,” as the
title of Keith Dunnavant’s new book would have it.  A case can be made that Starr stands alone, or at least
beside Johnny Unitas. As a Green Bay Packer, he was the Most
Valuable Player of the first two  Super Bowls , four times a Pro
Bowler, the personification of the virtues of Bear Bryant and
 Vince Lombardi  -- and a quarterback who called his own plays.  He’s not forgotten now, only diminished, but fortunately
Dunnavant reminds us of the grace and grit of a man who was once
a 17th-round draft pick (200th overall in 1956) but first in the
heart of Packer Nation.  “Even now,” Dunnavant writes, “his DNA runs through the
sport.”  “America’s Quarterback” traces Starr’s passage from
calling signals in high school to installation in the Hall of
Fame. It wasn’t an easy route, as Dunnavant shows; Lombardi was
a skeptic. But Starr gained confidence, and then the confidence
of the coach, who came to appreciate what Dunnavant calls
“Starr’s quiet but forceful style of leadership.”  He and the fabled Packer Sweep blossomed just as the NFL
was coming of age and before long he had emerged from the shadow
of his teammates Paul Hornung and Jim Taylor.  Others mastered the long pass. Starr, drawing on what
Dunnavant calls “the precision of his mechanics,” mastered the
fake, and if he is remembered for one thing it may be calling
his own QB sneak in the NFL championship game known as the Ice
Bowl. (St. Martin’s Press, $25.99.)  ‘Lombardi and Landry’  Everybody remembers Starr and his iconic coach, but who
remembers Jim Lee Howell? Some old  New York  Giants fans and a
few NFL history buffs, perhaps, but his name doesn’t slip off
the tongue like that of Lombardi or Tom Landry -- the two
signature pro-football coaches in the 1960s.  But in “ Lombardi and Landry ,” veteran sportswriter Ernie
Palladino shows how these legends were shaped by their time as
assistants to Howell, who coached the Giants in a period of
glory between 1954 and 1960.  It wasn’t so much the lessons Howell taught Lombardi and
Landry as the freedom he gave them that mattered. Lombardi was
the offensive general, Landry the defensive commander-in-chief,
and together they helped build a team that appeared in three NFL
championship games, winning the title in 1956.  And then they left, Lombardi to  Green Bay , Landry to Dallas
-- and both eventually to the Hall of Fame. (Skyhorse
Publishing, $24.95.)  Transformational Coaching  Joe Ehrmann takes on the coaching arts from a vastly
different perspective. He was a star athlete who had a childhood
of abuse and anger, a victim of the winning-is-everything ethos
and of coaches out for themselves. But he came to recognize the
potential of coaches to “impart life-changing messages.”  And so “ InSideOut Coaching ” is a how-to book of a
different kind: how to recognize and celebrate the kind of coach
who makes a difference, one who isn’t authoritative but
transformative.  “A transformational coach is dedicated to self-
understanding and empathy, viewing sports as a virtuous and
virtue-giving discipline,” he writes. “Transformational
coaches believe young people can grow and flourish in sports in
a way that is more liberating and instructive than can be
achieved through almost any other activity.”  Hard Knocks  How did Ehrmann, a Syracuse All-American, learn this?
Through hard knocks -- he had them in his youth; he dealt them
out on the Baltimore Colts defensive line. Through hard
thinking, during off-seasons at the  Dallas  Theological Seminary.
And through hard questions, asking people who had made a
difference in their lives.  Often that difference was made by coaches, even though so
many of them were afflicted with what he calls “empathy-deficit
disorder.”  As a result he developed his own definition of success for
coaches, not defined by wins: “Success is defined and measured
by the content of their character, their leadership and their
contribution to the betterment of their families, their
communities, and the world.” Memo to the NCAA: Buy scads of
copies of this book. (Written with Paula Ehrmann and Gregory
Jordan.  Simon & Schuster , $24.)  (David M. Shribman is executive editor of the Pittsburgh
Post-Gazette. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
David M. Shribman at  dshribman@post-gazette.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 