-- Nigeria Plans Fixed Phone Licenses in 2013 to Spur Broadband
-- B y   E m e l e   O n u
-- 2012-02-03T17:03:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/nigeria-plans-fixed-phone-licenses-in-2013-to-spur-broadband.html
Nigeria ,  Africa ’s most populous
country, plans to give additional fixed-line telephone licenses
next year to spur the expansion of broadband Internet
infrastructure, the telecommunications regulator said.  “The licenses will be issued to revive the fixed-line
telecommunication services that have been comatose and will
benefit our broadband initiative,” Eugene Juwah, chief
executive officer of Nigerian Communications Commission, said
yesterday in an interview in Lagos, the commercial capital. The
agency wants to provide the “enabling environment” for private
investors to expand the country’s broadband infrastructure, he
said.  Nigeria, with more than 164 million people, has seen its
number of telephone users surge from less than 1 million in 2000
to more than 90 million at the end of last year, according to
data published by the agency. Fixed-line telephone users make up
less than 1 percent of the total number, leaving room for growth
in broadband communication as demand increases for data
services.  MTN Nigeria Ltd. (MTN)  is the leading mobile phone company in
Nigeria with more than 40 million subscribers, followed by
Globacom Ltd. with about 20 million and  Bharti Airtel Ltd.’s (BHARTI) 
unit with more than 16 million. Providers of the global system
of mobile communication, or GSM, services account for 93 percent
of all subscribers, according to the website of the regulator.  The commission, also known as NCC, will license additional
phone companies using the code division multiple access, or
CDMA, technology, whose users are just over 6 percent of the
national total, to further boost communication, said Juwah.  NCC said it will “enhance competition among telecom
operators, ensure high quality services, drive down tariffs and
by those factors make more choices available to subscribers,”
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emele Onu in Lagos at 
 eonu1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  