-- National Oilwell Buys Danish Pipeline Maker for $673 Million
-- B y   D a v i d   W e t h e   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 2012-02-03T17:03:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/nkt-subsea-sell-pipeline-unit-to-national-oilwell-correct-.html
National Oilwell Varco Inc. (NOV) , the
largest U.S. oilfield-equipment maker, agreed to buy NKT
Flexibles for $673 million (3.8 billion kroner), expanding its
ability to sell gear for deep-water exploration projects.  NKT, which is 51 percent owned by Brondby, Denmark-based
 NKT Holding A/S (NKT)  and 49 percent owned by  Subsea 7 SA , makes
flexible pipelines for pumping oil, gas, water and chemicals for
offshore projects. The all-cash deal is expected to close in the
first half of the year, Houston-based National Oilwell Varco
said in a statement today.  The deal will allow National Oilwell Varco to sell about
$150 million in equipment to a “big” floating production,
storage and offloading vessel, or FPSO, Chief Financial Officer
Clay Williams said today in a telephone interview. Before the
deal, National Oilwell was able to supply $120 million to $130
million of gear to such a vessel, he said.  “What we really want to do is put capital to work in
products and services that help our customers to make a more
efficient FPSO,” Williams said. A large vessel may cost “well
over” $1 billion, Williams said.  The company has been looking to acquire more manufacturers
of FPSO gear, Chief Executive Officer Pete Miller said in a
telephone interview yesterday. The vessels pump and store oil
and gas in deep-water projects where pipelines to land aren’t
available.  FPSO Strategy  “This year we should begin to see its FPSO strategy bear
fruit,”  Bill Herbert  and Ian Macpherson, analysts with Houston-
based Simmons & Co. International wrote in a note today.  National Oilwell rose 4.1 percent to $80.22 at 10:37 a.m.
in  New York , after climbing as much as 4.3 percent, the most
intraday in a month. The shares have climbed 13 percent this
year before today.  National Oilwell spent $1.4 billion in cash on nine
 acquisitions  last year, Williams said on an investor call
yesterday. National Oilwell completed its $777 million purchase
of Ameron International Corp., its largest last year, on Oct. 5.  Miller said yesterday in an interview the company was
looking at deals valued between $250 million and $750 million
and was “pretty close” to a couple of them.  Biggest Nordic Sale  The transaction would be this year’s biggest sale of a
Nordic asset after DS Smith Plc’s $2 billion (1.6 billion euro)
purchase of Svenska Cellulosa AB’s packaging unit, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  NKT Holding, which owns the world’s biggest maker of
industrial vacuum cleaners, and  Subsea (SUBC) , an oilfield-services
provider, said Sept. 20 they would look for potential buyers for
NKT Flexibles.  The pipeline unit, which has a plant in  Denmark , is
doubling capacity by building another manufacturing site in
 Brazil , Williams said today. NKT Flexibles has a contract for
future work with Petroleo Brasileiro SA, according to the
statement today.  NKT Holding climbed 9.3 percent 242.50 kroner at the close
in Copenhagen, the most in more than four months. Subsea rose
2.7 percent to 126.5 kroner in Oslo.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  