-- North Korean Leader Kim Backs Natural-Gas Pipeline, Russia Says
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2012-02-03T08:15:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/north-korean-leader-kim-backs-natural-gas-pipeline-russia-says.html
North Korea ’s new leader, Kim Jong Un, supports an agreement to build a natural-gas pipeline from
Russia to  South Korea  via his communist state, the Russian envoy
in Pyongyang said.  “All these existing agreements are supported by the new
leadership in North Korea,” Russian Ambassador Valery Sukhinin
said in a phone interview today from the North Korean capital.
“Talks now are taking place between the parties implementing
the project, from our side Gazprom, and from the North Korean
side, the oil industry ministry.” OAO Gazprom is the state-run
Russian gas-export monopoly.  Kim’s father,  Kim Jong Il , who died in December, agreed to
the gas pipeline at a meeting in August with Russian President
 Dmitry Medvedev  near the Siberian city of Ulan-Ude. Russia said
the energy deal was part of efforts to win concessions on North
Korea’s nuclear-weapons program.  South Korea’s chief nuclear envoy said in an interview
yesterday he is “optimistic” that inducements offered by the
U.S. and his country will persuade the new North Korean leader
to hold fresh talks aimed at persuading the isolated regime to
give up the capability to produce atomic weapons.  The envoy, Lim Sung Nam, will travel to Moscow next week
for talks with his Russian counterpart, Deputy Foreign Minister
Igor Morgulov. Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said on
Jan. 29 that it was “absolutely realistic” to reconvene six-
party talks by the middle of the year.  Stronger Ties  Russia  and North Korea are stepping up ministerial contacts
after a visit this month by the North Korean fisheries minister,
Sukhinin said. The two countries may also hold another summit in
the future, he said. Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin , who traveled
to Pyongyang in 2000 and hosted the late North Korean leader
twice during his 2000-2008 presidency, is seeking a new term as
president next month.  As far as the gas pipeline is concerned, “there is nothing
more to talk about at the level of the two countries’ leadership
as there is an agreement in principle,” Sukhinin said.
“Instructions have been given, now we have resolve practical
questions.”  North Korea’s deputy oil industry minister, Jeong Cheol
Yong, visited Moscow at the end of November to hold the first
meeting of the so-called joint working group with  Gazprom (GAZP) 
charged with the project.  Russia wants to construct a pipeline that would carry as
much as 10 billion cubic meters of gas a year to South Korea via
the North, which would earn transit revenues. Russia may also
build a  power grid  along the route.  Korea Gas Corp. (036460) , the world’s biggest importer of liquefied
natural gas, and Gazprom have been trying to identify a supply
route since at least 2003, when they signed a cooperation
accord.  Russia has also proposed a railway project that would
connect the Trans-Siberian Railway to South Korea via North
Korea, opening up an “Iron Silk Road” that would cut shipping
costs of South Korean companies to  Europe .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  