-- Novatek Targets $100 Billion Value to Surpass BG as Output Rises
-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 2012-02-03T17:04:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/novatek-targets-100-billion-value-to-surpass-bg-as-output-rises.html
OAO Novatek (NVTK) ,  Russia ’s second-largest
natural-gas producer, is targeting a market value of $100
billion to surpass  BG Group Plc (BG/)  as the Siberian company boosts
reserves and production.  “We would love to be valued like BG, as a good comparable
valuation, but I am sure BG wishes they were our size and our
dynamics,” Mark Gyetvay, Novatek’s chief financial officer,
told reporters today in Moscow.  Novatek’s market value has more than doubled in the past
two years to 1.22 trillion rubles ($41 billion), still below
48.2 billion pounds ($76 billion) for BG, the U.K.’s third-
largest gas producer.  Novatek is raising production at existing fields and
through acquisitions, expanding processing capacity for exports
of oil-like gas condensate and widening its gas distribution
network to reach more customers in Russia.  Novatek boosted gas reserves 15 percent and production of
the fuel by about 42 percent last year. It plans to double gas
production by 2020.  The producer’s sales are limited to the domestic market by
law, which grants state-controlled OAO Gazprom a monopoly on
exports. Novatek plans to supply liquefied natural gas to
markets in Europe and  Asia  from an Arctic project, working
through Gazprom on a commission basis.  The company may reach a $100 billion value “in the near
term,” given its resources and production, although low
domestic prices currently constrain growth, Gyetvay said. Russia
is gradually increasing its prices to reflect European market
levels.  “You set a target for yourself, you want to set a goal to
reach,” Gyetvay said. “We’re going to double the size of our
company in five years.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  