-- Obama Seeking $5 Billion in Budget for Hiring Veterans
-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 2012-02-03T17:01:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/obama-seeks-5-billion-in-next-year-s-budget-to-help-hire-u-s-veterans.html
(Corrects date in quote in third paragraph.)  President  Barack Obama  will renew a
request for $5 billion in his 2013 budget to encourage local law
enforcement agencies and fire departments to hire military
veterans who have served since the Sept. 11 attacks.  The president will make the announcement today during a
visit to a fire station in Arlington,  Virginia , that was among
the first to respond to the Sept. 11 attack on the Pentagon.  “The generation that volunteered after Sept. 11, 2001, has
been called ‘the next greatest generation;’ our country owes
them a debt of gratitude,” Secretary of Veterans Affairs Eric Shinseki said on a conference call yesterday previewing the
announcement. “We must ensure that veterans who come home from
Afghanistan and  Iraq  get the opportunities they deserve.”  The grant money was originally proposed in Obama’s
September jobs plan, most of which was rejected by Congress. At
the start of an election year in which the economy and jobs will
be top issues, Obama is pressing Congress to pass components of
the jobs package to highlight differences with Republicans, who
control the  House of Representatives .  Obama will announce that his fiscal year 2013 budget will
include $4 billion for Community Oriented Policing Services
grants to encourage police hiring in 2012 and $1 billion for
another program for local governments to hire firefighters. The
president’s budget is scheduled to be submitted to Congress on
Feb. 13.  Shifting Funds  The president also plans to shift $486 million in the
current fiscal year for those two programs to give preference to
local governments that hire post-Sept. 11 veterans, communities
that would have had to lay off employees without additional
funds and communities that will rehire officers who were
recently laid off, according to a White House announcement.  For fiscal 2013, the president also is seeking $1 billion
over five years to develop a Veterans Job Corps to hire as many
as 20,000 veterans for conservation projects, including
repairing roads and trails and leading visitor programs on
federal, state, local and tribal lands.  Secretary of the Interior  Ken Salazar  said on the
conference call that he expects approximately 40 percent of
employees at his department will retire between now and 2016,
which would provide positions for veterans.  Obama will also call for expanding an entrepreneurship
program for veterans and their families.  “Investment in military families in addition to all its
humanitarian dimensions is an investment in military
retention,” said David Segal, director of the Center for
Research on Military Organization at the University of  Maryland .  “The White House and the Defense Department have
recognized that military family satisfaction is a major
component of military retention,” Segal said in an interview.  U.S. troops were withdrawn from Iraq at the end of 2011 and
the U.S. has about 89,000 troops on the ground in  Afghanistan 
after withdrawing 10,000 last year. It plans to remove at least
23,000 more by September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 Kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  