-- Obama Said to Curtail $21 Billion Plan to Expand Military Presence in Guam
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n   a n d   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2012-02-03T17:12:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/obama-said-to-curtail-21-billion-plan-to-expand-military-presence-in-guam.html
President  Barack Obama  plans to
curtail a plan costing as much as $21.1 billion to expand the
U.S. military’s presence in Guam and instead will rotate some of
the Marines through the Asia-Pacific region, people familiar
with the matter said.  The administration now intends to send about 4,500 U.S.
Marines stationed in  Japan  to Guam and to rotate an additional
4,000 through Australia, Subic Bay and perhaps a smaller base in
the Philippines and  Hawaii , according to the people, who asked
not to be identified because the plan hasn’t been announced.  The U.S. is realigning forces in the Asia-Pacific as the
Obama administration refocuses attention on the region after
more than a decade of wars in Iraq and  Afghanistan . At the same
time, the Pentagon is seeking to cut about $490 billion from
projected  defense spending  over a decade.  Some of the Marines going to Guam under the
administration’s revised plan will be based in the U.S.
territory in the Pacific temporarily, known as on rotation,
instead of being permanently stationed there, the people said.  As part of a 2006 agreement with Japan, 8,600 Marines and
9,000 dependents were to be transferred from Okinawa in Japan
almost 1,500 miles (2,413 kilometers) south to Guam by 2014.  Delegate Madeleine Bordallo, a Democrat who represents Guam
in the  U.S. Congress , cautioned against depending too much on a
temporary presence.  “There must be a balance between a robust permanent
presence of Marines as well as a rotational component,” she
said yesterday in an e-mail. “It’s foolish to believe a
rotational component would save any money in the long run.”  Pentagon Response  The Pentagon considers  Guam  “an essential part of our
larger Asia-Pacific strategy,” Commander Leslie Hull-Ryde, a
Defense Department spokeswoman, said yesterday in an e-mail.
“We are committed to developing Guam as a strategic hub and to
establishing an operational Marine Corps presence on Guam by
relocating some Marines from Okinawa to Guam.”  “Recognizing the budget realities here, as well as the
environmental challenges we face on Guam, the department is
considering options that will fulfill our regional commitments
most efficiently and effectively,” Hull-Ryde said.  The Obama administration’s change in plans on locating
forces in Guam also follows objections in the  U.S. Senate  over
the cost of building infrastructure in the island territory.  Move Forward  “I do appreciate that this administration takes seriously
the concerns of Congress and I urge them to address those
concerns so we can move forward with the build-up,” Bordallo
said in the e-mail statement.  In May, three senators called on the Pentagon to re-examine
military basing plans in East  Asia , saying billions of dollars
may be saved in  South Korea , Japan and Guam.  Senate Armed Services Committee Chairman  Carl Levin , a
Michigan Democrat, joined Senators  John McCain  of  Arizona , the
panel’s senior Republican, and  Jim Webb , a Virginia Democrat and
the chairman of the personnel subcommittee, in calling for
reducing the planned Marine Corps expansion on Guam.  Instead, the lawmakers called for rotating combat units
based elsewhere and for examining the feasibility of moving
Marine Corps Air Station Futenma on Okinawa, Japan, to Kadena
Air Base, Okinawa, while avoiding building a replacement
facility. Local officials have complained about noise, pollution
and safety issues at Futenma.  Cost Estimates  In approving the Pentagon’s fiscal year 2012 budget,
Congress blocked funding for the relocation of Marines to Guam
until the Defense Department provided a master plan. The
Pentagon had to consider “alternatives that may provide the
needed Marine forward presence at much less expense,” McCain
said in a Senate speech in September.  McCain said at the time that he expected the redeployment
of forces from Japan to Guam to cost $18 billion to $23 billion.
The Government Accountability Office estimated in a June 27,
2011 report the cost of the Guam military buildup to be about
$23.9 billion, including the $21.1 billion U.S. share as well as
contributions from Japan.  Alternatives to Guam, especially in other countries, may
prove more expensive over time, Guam’s Republican Governor Eddie
Baza Calvo said in an e-mail.  “Guam is the perfect place for the buildup,” he said.
“We are the closest U.S. community to Asia.” Unlike “many
foreign countries and even some U.S. communities, we welcome an
increased military presence.”  Air Station  The Obama administration’s plans to move forces out of
Japan no longer are contingent on progress in building a new
site for the Futenma air station on Okinawa, according to the
people familiar with the plan. The change may require
renegotiating existing agreements with Japan, they said.  The initial agreement to move some U.S. forces from Japan
to Guam was contingent on progress in building a new facility to
shift the Futenma air station to a less populated part of
Okinawa.  In February 2009, the U.S. and Japan agreed that the III
Marine Expeditionary Force’s relocation to Guam is dependent on
“tangible progress” by Japan toward the completion of a
replacement for the Futenma air station on Okinawa, according to
the GAO.  By 2014, the Futenma air station is scheduled to move north
to a new facility at Camp Schwab in northeastern Okinawa. Japan
committed to provide as much as $6.09 billion to fund the move
of some forces to Guam and replace Futenma.  Environment Assessment  In December, Japan submitted to Okinawa’s local government
an environmental assessment of moving Futenma to a new facility.
Hull-Ryde, the Pentagon spokeswoman, said the report
“demonstrates a serious effort to move ahead.”  Japan is expected to recoup as much as $3.3 billion of the
Guam relocation cost over time in the form of repayments from
the U.S. government and rents paid by the Marines through their
housing allowances, according to the GAO.  The Obama administration already is engaged in discussions
with  Philippines  and Australia as it seeks to realign forces in
the region.  One objective is to maintain a significant U.S. force west
of the International Dateline, said a U.S. official who spoke on
condition of anonymity because he isn’t authorized to discuss
the administration’s plans publicly.  Last month, Philippine officials said they were seeking
closer ties with the U.S. including “rotating and more
frequent” military presence to deter  China  from operating in
disputed waters of the  South China Sea .  Some Philippine politicians are seeking a greater American
presence at Subic Bay, a large U.S. naval base during the
 Vietnam War , as a way to create jobs in the nearby city of
Olangapo, the U.S. official said.  Philippine Secretary of Foreign Affairs Albert del Rosario
visited Washington Jan. 28 and met Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  and Defense Secretary Leon Panetta.  Australia  agreed in November to host a contingent of U.S.
Marines at its northern port of Darwin.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net ;
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  