-- Oil Rises for First Time in Six Days as U.S. Unemployment Rate Declines
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u   a n d   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2012-02-03T20:44:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/oil-rises-for-first-time-in-six-days-as-u-s-unemployment-rate-declines.html
Oil gained for the first time in six
days, paring a weekly decline, after the U.S. jobless rate fell
to the lowest level in three years.  Futures climbed 1.5 percent after the Labor Department said
the  unemployment rate  dropped to 8.3 percent in January, the
least since February 2009. Nonfarm payrolls increased 243,000,
the most since April. Oil dropped this week as inventories rose
and demand weakened.  “It’s a really strong jobs report and not surprisingly it
should give the market a boost,” said Jason Schenker, president
of Prestige Economics LLC, an Austin, Texas-based energy
consultant. “It showed that the  U.S. economy  is recovering.”  Crude for March delivery gained $1.48 to settle at $97.84 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Prices fell 1.7
percent this week.  Brent oil for March settlement climbed $2.51, or 2.2
percent, to $114.58 a barrel on the ICE Futures Europe exchange.
Brent’s  premium  to Nymex’s West Texas Intermediate widened for a
seventh day, to $16.74.  The  unemployment  rate, derived from a survey of households,
was forecast to hold at 8.5 percent, according to the median
projection in a Bloomberg News survey of economists.  January’s payroll increase exceeded all the forecasts in
the survey. The median projection called for an increase of
140,000. Estimates by the 89 respondents ranged from gains of
95,000 to 225,000.  ‘Markets Exploded’  The jump in employment was broad-based, including
manufacturing, construction, temporary help agencies,
restaurants and retailers.  “All of the markets exploded on the very bullish
unemployment number,” said  Tom Bentz , a director with BNP
Paribas Prime Brokerage Inc. in New York. “Any sign of an
improving U.S. economy is positive for the oil demand picture.”  Crude also moved higher after a Washington Post columnist
reported yesterday that U.S. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta 
believes there is a strong likelihood that Israel will strike
 Iran  by the end of June. Panetta declined to comment.  “The market found support overnight on the headlines that
pointed to the possibility Israel will attack Iran this
spring,” said Bentz.  Iran has said it may close the Strait of Hormuz, the
transit point for about a fifth of global crude, after the
European Union announced Jan. 23 that it will implement an oil
embargo starting July 1 to pressure the Islamic republic over
its nuclear program.  Iran’s Supreme Leader  Ayatollah Ali Khamenei  said his
country will carry out its threats in response to Western
sanctions aimed at stopped its nuclear program if needed, the
state-run Mehr news agency reported today.  Rising Inventories  Nymex futures fell for the previous five days on signs of
surging supply. Total inventories climbed to a 13-week high of
338.9 million barrels, and stockpiles at the  Cushing (DOESCROK) , Oklahoma,
delivery point for the  New York  contract reached a six-week high
of 30.1 million.  The current oil inventory level can support  23.4 days  of
refinery use, the most since July 1, according to the Energy
Department.  “The inventory numbers are weighing on the market,” said
Rich Ilczyszyn, chief market strategist and founder of
Iitrader.com in  Chicago . “I don’t want to say that we have a
glut, but we do have plenty of stocks.”  The supply increase pushed the March contract’s  discount to
December  to $2.69 based on today’s settlement prices, up from
$1.38 on Jan. 27.  Brent Premium  Rising Cushing inventories also helped widen Brent’s
 premium  over WTI, which has almost doubled this year, said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and broker at Tradition Energy in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut .  Enterprise Products Partners LP (EPD)  plans to
start shipping oil from Cushing to the U.S. Gulf Coast June 1
after the Seaway pipeline’s flow is reversed.  “Cushing stocks are increasing and there won’t be new
pipelines until later this year,” McGillian said. He added that
Asian demand is boosting Brent.  Crude prices may fall next week, a Bloomberg News survey
showed. Fourteen of 34 analysts, or 41 percent, forecast oil
will drop through Feb. 10. Twelve respondents, or 35 percent,
predicted prices will increase and eight estimated there will be
little change.  Total  petroleum demand  in the U.S., the biggest oil
consumer, fell to 17.7 million barrels a day last week, the
lowest level since May 1999, according to the Energy Department.
Gasoline  consumption decreased  to 7.97 million barrels a day,
the lowest level since September 2001.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 655,737
contracts as of 3:11 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 745,272
yesterday, 27 percent above the three-month average. Open
interest was 1.44 million contracts, a three-month high.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  