-- Oil Near Six-Week Low Before Jobs Report; Brent Premium Widens
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-02-03T08:07:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/oil-near-six-week-low-before-jobs-report-brent-premium-widens.html
Oil traded near a six-week low before
a report forecast to show the U.S. added fewer jobs last month
than in December.  Brent crude ’s premium to the New York price is
set for the largest weekly gain in a month.  Futures were little changed in New York after dropping a
fifth day yesterday, the longest losing streak since August. The
U.S. added 140,000 jobs last month after gaining 200,000 in
December, according to a Bloomberg News survey of economists
before a Labor Department report today. London-traded Brent’s
 premium  to West Texas Intermediate crude, the U.S. benchmark,
widened 32 percent this week to the most since Nov. 12.  “Investors will be watching the release of the jobs data,
which is a key leading indicator for economic activity and
therefore energy demand,” said Michael McCarthy, chief market
strategist at CMC Markets Asia Pacific Pty in Sydney. “Concerns
about demand has led to some pretty heavy selling in West Texas.
Brent has held its ground, so we have seen that spread widen.”  Crude for March delivery was at $96.57 a barrel, up 21
cents, in electronic trading on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange
at 4:02 p.m.  Singapore  time. The contract fell 1.3 percent to
$96.36 yesterday, the lowest since Dec. 19. Prices are down 3.1
percent this week, the most since the week ended Dec. 16.  Brent oil for March settlement climbed as much as 0.4
percent to $112.54 a barrel on the ICE Futures Europe exchange.
It gained 0.5 percent yesterday and is up 0.7 percent this week.
The European benchmark contract’s premium to WTI was at $15.75,
the widest in 12 weeks.  Cushing Supplies  West Texas futures fell this week on signs of surging
stockpiles at the  Cushing (DOESCROK) , Oklahoma, delivery point for the New
York contract as output increased in  Canada  and North Dakota.
Inventories at Cushing climbed by 1.48 million barrels to 30.1
million in the week ended Jan. 27, the highest level since Dec.
16, according to U.S. Energy Department released Feb. 1.  The supply increase has pushed the March contract to a
discount of $2.61 a barrel to December futures. This market
situation, known as a contango, means later deliveries are more
expensive than prompt supplies. As recently as Jan. 3, the
nearer-term contract was at a premium of $1.85.  As stockpiles at Cushing increased 6.5 percent in the past
two weeks, WTI’s discount to Brent crude, the European benchmark,
widened to $15.71 a barrel Feb. 2 from $9.90 on Jan. 18 on the
ICE Futures Europe exchange in  London .  Demand Driven  “The big increase in inventories in the U.S. has led to
weakness in West Texas,” said CMC’s McCarthy. “Normally oil is
a supply-side equation, but the trading overnight was more
demand-side driven.”  U.S. gasoline  consumption  decreased to 7.97 million barrels
a day, the lowest since September 2001, according to the Energy
Department data. Stockpiles of the fuel increased 3.02 million
barrels last week, the report showed.  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries will
increase shipments this month on rising winter demand in the
northern hemisphere, according to tanker-tracker Oil Movements.  OPEC will ship 23.52 million barrels a day in the four
weeks to Feb. 18, 1.1 percent more than the 23.26 million
barrels in the period to Jan. 21, the Halifax, England-based
researcher said yesterday in an e-mailed report. The figures
exclude Angola and  Ecuador .  Saudi Arabia  may raise the price of its lowest-quality
crude to the most in almost two years relative to its top oil
grade, according to a Bloomberg survey of 10 buyers in  Japan ,
Singapore,  China ,  South Korea  and  India .  Arab Heavy, the kingdom’s cheapest oil, will be sold to
Asian customers in March for $2.02 a barrel less than higher-
quality Arab Light, the smallest difference since April 2010,
the survey showed. The company will announce official selling
prices on Feb. 5.  SK Innovation Co., South Korea’s largest refiner, is
seeking alternative supplies to feed its refineries because it
anticipates government sanctions against trading with  Iran  may
be extended to crude oil imports. The Seoul-based company may
increase crude purchases on the  spot market  or shift to other
suppliers, Jo Eun Hee, the head of SK’s energy planning unit,
told investors in a conference call from  Seoul  today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mike Anderson at 
 manderson34@bloomberg.net  