-- London Landlords Facing Rents of Zero Turn Offices Into Condos
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n   a n d   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2012-02-03T19:57:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/london-landlords-facing-rents-of-zero-turn-offices-into-condos.html
More people will be making their
homes among the banks and insurance companies of central  London 
as a shrinking financial industry and the prospect of leasing
out buildings for free prompts landlords to convert offices into
luxury apartments.  Developers including Axa Real Estate Investment Managers
Ltd.,  Berkeley Group Holdings Plc (BKG)  and Heron International Inc.
also plan to build homes in the heart of Britain’s financial
services industry, known as the Square Mile, after purchasing
obsolete commercial buildings in the area.  “The fringes of the City are struggling in terms of
letting secondhand buildings,” said Anthony Duggan, head of
real estate research at Deloitte LLP. “There will be a number
of developments looking at alternative uses.”  London has seen demand for offices slump after banks cut
more jobs in the U.K. than in any other country last year. Rents
in the  City of London  will fall 4 percent this year, compared
with earlier predictions of a 6.1 percent increase, JPMorgan
Chase & Co. said in a Jan. 11 note. Values will drop 7.3 percent
in 2012, the bank said.  Axa is seeking older offices or partly developed
“brownfield” sites on the fringes of the financial district to
turn into housing. Berkeley plans to renovate a derelict office
property near Moorgate into 90 residences. Heron is building a
36-story residential tower near the Barbican, and Hammerson
plans to develop 253 apartments near Liverpool Street station.  Finance Jobs Lost  Employment in the Square Mile dropped 8.5 percent last year
and it will remain below 1998 levels until 2014, according to
the Centre for Economics & Business Research Ltd. The cutbacks
and the amount of aging space give City tenants greater
bargaining power on rents with owners of older, empty office
blocks.  About 54 percent of  office space  in the City of London and
on its fringes is more than 15 years old, meaning it can no
longer be marketed as “prime,” according to research from  DTZ
Holdings Plc (DDTZ) .  Some landlords may choose to lease space for nothing to
avoid a charge on empty buildings, Michael Marx, Chief Executive
Officer of Development Securities Plc, said in an interview.  “I’m feeling more and more robust about that forecast as
time goes past,” he said.  Since April 2008, the U.K. government has required office
property owners to pay business taxes, equal to those usually
owed by tenants, on buildings that remain vacant for more than
three months.  Axa Shops Around  Axa Real Estate plans to build homes and offices that will
be worth at as much as 100 million pounds ($158 million) when
completed Harry Badham, U.K. director of development, said in an
interview. The company, which has 40 billion euros ($52.4
billion) of property under management, is looking at buildings
and sites in Clerkenwell, Farringdon and Shoreditch.  “Residential conversion of older buildings can be an
obvious route to value,” Badham said. Purchases would be by its
Development Venture III fund, which has raised 588.5 million
euros to date to buy property across  Europe , he said.  A separate Axa Real Estate fund is developing an office
building at 1 St Paul’s, close to the cathedral, that will
include 10,000 square feet (929 square meters) of homes as well
as 60,000 square feet of offices and 20,000 square feet of
retail, the insurer said in a statement.  “There’s more value in going residential,” said Badham,
who said home values were 10 percent to 15 percent higher at St.
Paul’s than that for offices. Axa Real Estate may retain flats
and lease them to a serviced apartment owner.  Cheaper Than Knightsbridge  Home prices in the City of London typically range from 650
pounds to 1,350 pounds a square foot, Neil Chegwidden,
residential research director at Jones Lang LaSalle Inc., said
in October. Knightsbridge has the highest average price per
square foot in London at 2,007 pounds, followed by Belgravia at
1,982 pounds and Mayfair at 1,960 pounds, broker Savills Plc
said in an October report.  The average two-bedroom apartment in the U.K. is about 800
square feet (74.3 square meters), according to 2008 data from
 Nationwide Building Society . That means a property that size in
the City of London is worth 520,000 pounds to 1.08 million
pounds based on Jones Lang’s valuations.  Luxury  home prices  in central London have increased for 14
consecutive months through December, Knight Frank LLP said Jan.
9, making conversion to homes more attractive to owners of empty
buildings.  Roman House  Berkeley, the U.K.’s largest homebuilder by market value,
won approval to renovate Roman House, a derelict office near
Moorgate, into a 90-apartment building in December. It’s seeking
more empty structures or brownfield land in the City to convert
into homes, Berkeley (Capital) Plc managing director Piers
Clanford, said in an interview.  “There’s interest from the City for a pied a terre and
somewhere to stay during the week,” Clanford said. “People
work long hours and that’s a target market us.”  Renovating Roman House, which contains a protected Roman
wall, rather than building from scratch, saved Berkeley as much
as six months in construction time, he said. For other
developers, sites will need to be demolished and rebuilt because
their layout is unsuitable for homes. When refurbishment costs
reach about 160 pounds a square foot, they equal the cost of
developing a site, said Iain Parker, head of European offices at
real-estate adviser  Davis Langdon .  ‘Moons Aligning’  “The environment is almost more suitable for refurbishment
and reinvention,” Parker said. “It’s almost like all of the
moons are aligning in terms of cost, money being tight, the
sustainability agenda” and planning.  Heron demolished a fire station when it tore down the
Barbican Centre’s service building to develop  The Heron , a 36-
story residential tower. The project is less than one kilometer
(0.62 miles) from Berkeley’s development and Heron is seeking
what it says will be the highest home prices ever charged in the
City at about 1,600 pounds a square foot.  New residential developments will deliver better quality
than renovating old offices into homes, though winning planning
approval can be difficult, said Paul Cheshire, professor of
economic geography at the  London School  of Economics.  “You really should be building houses in the first place
because what you’re going to end up with is second-class houses
or apartments,” by converting offices, Cheshire said in an
interview at the university. “But the planning system may make
it very difficult.”  Residents Rights  The fringe of the Square Mile is more suitable for
residential conversion than the center because housing would
“sterilize” the surrounding area, said Ken Shuttleworth of
Make Architects. Residents would have the right to impede future
development if it blocks out sunlight, and that would reduce the
value of neighboring buildings, he said.  Brookfield Office Properties Inc., lower  Manhattan ’s
biggest office landlord, is also looking to buy obsolete City
office blocks for conversion to flats, said Martin Jepson,
senior vice president for development and investment at the New
York-based company.  “Redundant offices are the natural provider of future
residential land,” said Ian Marris, partner of London
residential development at Knight Frank LLP, by phone. “There’s
an acute shortage of supply of new-build homes across all of
central London.”  Office Conversions  From 2007 through 2011, landlords began turning 19
commercial buildings in the Square Mile into homes, according to
research by Savills and London Residential Research. Of those,
14 refurbishments were completed and all the apartments in them
have been sold, Savills said. Two of the five projects still
under construction are new build.  “The  land registry  doesn’t report residential index
figures for the City because it’s so small,” Lucian Cook,
director of residential research said in an interview today.
“Scarcity is one of the biggest drivers of price in prime
central London.”  The City of London, which has restricted the majority of
homes to the Barbican area, had about 11,677 residents in the
middle of 2010, according to the  Office for National Statistics .
That’s likely to increase, according to David Wootton, the lord
mayor of London.  “We would like to have more residences,” Wootton said in
an interview. “It’s a matter of balance and making sure that
small pockets of residential don’t disrupt the business
cluster.”  Lower Manhattan  A similar phenomenon has taken place in lower Manhattan,
where almost 16 million square feet of space, mostly in older
buildings deemed obsolete for offices, have been or are slated
to be converted to housing between 1995 and 2013, according to
the  Alliance for Downtown New York , an organization representing
area businesses.  “The goal in lower Manhattan has always been to keep it a
globally competitive business address,” said Elizabeth Berger,
the alliance president. Beginning in the 1990s, “you saw both
the conversion of obsolete office space and the creation of new
residential, and the community has grown exponentially. I’m a
lower Manhattan resident for 30 years, and when I moved here,
about 10,000 people lived below Chambers Street,” she said.  The most recent population estimate is 56,000, according to
the alliance.  On Hold  Hammerson Plc (HMSO) , the U.K.’s third-largest publicly traded
developer, delayed plans to develop an office block at Principal
Place on the edge of the City after talks to lease part of the
building to CMS Cameron McKenna LLP prior to construction
failed, according to a Jan. 16 statement.  The project was canceled to avoid exposing shareholders
“to excessive risk,” Hammerson Chief Executive Officer David Atkins said in the statement.  Hammerson still plans to develop a residential tower with
253 apartments at the site near Liverpool Street rail station
and is in talks with companies to develop the tower in a joint
venture. One of the companies is Manhattan Loft Corp., its
chairman Harry Handelsman said in an interview.  “It’s a sexy opportunity,” said Handelsman, who
masterminded the conversion of a disused building at Kings Cross
railway into a luxury hotel and residences. “Towers are still a
bit of a novelty in London. It’s a way of sustaining growth of a
city. It needs to adapt to the high-rise model.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  