-- Long Island Town Paying Top Cop $500,000 to Retire Faces Fiscal Emergency
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2012-02-03T05:00:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/long-island-town-paying-top-cop-500-000-to-retire-faces-fiscal-emergency.html
Long Beach (9309MF) ,  New York (STONY1) , the  Long Island 
city whose credit rating was cut five levels in December, is
freezing hiring and cutting costs after a 66 percent increase in
overtime and a $500,000 payout to a retiring police commissioner
forced officials to tap the  bond market  for cash.  The City Council will vote Feb. 7 on a resolution declaring
the municipality of 36,000 to be in a fiscal crisis. The measure
would give City Manager  Jack Schnirman , hired last month to put
finances back in order, the authority to reappropriate the $60
million budget.  Schnirman, 34, a former  management consultant  with a
master’s degree from  Harvard University , may face a difficult
task. He said he found that city officials raised revenue
projections “year after year” to match their desired spending.
The jump in overtime was sparked in part by  Hurricane Irene ,
which slammed Long Island’s south shore in August, flooding
roads, damaging beaches and forcing workers to clean up debris.  “When you do something wrong over a period of time, bad
luck exposes it,” Schnirman said in a Jan. 24 telephone
interview. “The city had a structural imbalance in the way it
planned revenue and expenses over a period of years, and it was
using its surplus to rectify that imbalance. The city ran out of
time and surplus.”  Overtime Budgets  Midway through the current fiscal year, eight departments
had exceeded their overtime budgets by $544,016, or almost 41
percent, said Schnirman, who previously was chief deputy
supervisor of Brookhaven in Long Island’s Suffolk County. Since
2006, overtime costs have gone up $900,000, or 66 percent, he
said.  From  California  to  New Jersey , state and local governments
targeted overtime and public-worker benefits as they reined in
costs amid the worst recession since the Great Depression.
Revenue hasn’t returned to the peak reached in the months after
the recession started in December 2007, according to a study by
the Albany, New York-based Nelson A. Rockefeller Institute of
Government.  “All over the country, municipalities were having problems
and buckling down, and I wondered what makes us so different
that we can just keep spending,” newly elected City Council
President  Fran Adelson  said in a Jan. 31 telephone interview.
“Are we not part of the world?”  Moody’s Steps In  On Dec. 20, Moody’s Investors Service dropped the city’s
rating on $48.3 million of general-obligation bonds to Baa3, the
lowest investment grade, from A1. Earlier that month,  Long Beach 
borrowed $4.25 million to meet its monthly payroll, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg and an offering statement.  Reserves were depleted by overtime and the $500,000 payment
to Police Commissioner Thomas Sofield Sr., former City Manager
Charles Theofan said in a December interview. Sofield gave his
retirement notice within a week of his son, Council President
Thomas Sofield Jr., losing a re-election bid, Schnirman said.  Two other police officers followed, raising the total
retirement payouts to $1.4 million. The payments are a portion
of the $23.3 million the city will owe its more than 300 workers
when they retire, according to an annual audit obtained by
Bloomberg News. The audit is expected to be released before the
Feb. 7 meeting, Adelson said.  Sofield Sr.’s former secretary, Carolyn Eaton, said in a
telephone interview that he couldn’t be reached. His home
telephone number is unlisted. Calls to a number listed for
Sofield Jr. weren’t returned.  Taken by Surprise  The borrowing caught Moody’s analysts Robert Weber and
Geordie Thompson by surprise.  “There was no expectation of any  cash-flow  problems,”
Weber said in a telephone interview. “We specifically asked
them, and four months later they were in need of cash.”  There also were “severe negative discrepancies” between
projections of reserves and cash flow given to Moody’s in
August, and unaudited budget documents provided to the analysts
in December, Weber wrote in his Dec. 20 ratings rationale.  “They’re not budgeting in a way that by end of the year
ends up coming to fruition,” Thompson said.  For the current fiscal year, which ends June 30, Long Beach
projected $66 million in revenue, $7 million more than it
collected in fiscal 2008, before the financial crisis, according
to the preliminary official statement. The city expected a $6
million surplus, the statement said.  Weber said Long Beach, about 30 miles (48 kilometers) east
of  Manhattan , probably will need to borrow again before June 30.
Schnirman has stopped overtime, frozen hiring and also is
reviewing Long Beach’s finances.  Among his findings: Theofan gave out almost $400,000 in pay
raises and promotions before resigning at the end of December.  Schnirman is being paid $157,988 a year, 5 percent less
than Theofan, who couldn't be reached for comment this week.  “The borrowing did not stop unbudgeted personnel moves,”
Schnirman said. “We’re reviewing all of them to determine
whether they were proper or affordable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Freeman Klopott in  Albany ,  New York , at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 