-- Orders to U.S. Factories Rise
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-02-03T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/orders-to-u-s-factories-rise.html
Orders to U.S. factories increased in
December for a second month, a sign manufacturing will strengthen
even more.  Bookings (TMNOCHNG)  rose 1.1 percent after a revised 2.2 percent gain
in November that was larger than previously estimated, figures
from the Commerce Department showed today in Washington. The
order backlog jumped 1.4 percent, the most since March 2008.  Factories boosted payrolls in January by the most in a year
and the number of hours worked per week climbed to the highest in
14 years, according to Labor Department figures today, showing
how the need to rebuild inventories and replace outdated
equipment will keep American industry humming. Nonetheless, a
slowdown in  Europe  may limit gains in exports, representing a
risk to American manufacturers.  “Manufacturing is doing quite well,”  Michael Brown , an
economist at  Wells Fargo Securities LLC  in  Charlotte ,  North
Carolina , said before the report. “Going forward, the year is
off to a decent start in the manufacturing sector, but we need to
make sure that orders continue to come in with the strength that
we’ve seen in the last couple of months.”  Economists forecast factory orders would rise 1.5 percent,
according to the median of 64 projections in a Bloomberg News
survey. Estimates ranged from declines of 1 percent to gains of
2.5 percent. The Commerce Department revised the November gain up
from a previously estimated 1.8 percent increase.  Employment climbed more than forecast in January and the
jobless rate unexpectedly fell to the lowest in three years, the
Labor Department’s report also showed today.  Payrolls Jump  The 243,000 increase in payrolls was the biggest since April
and exceeded all forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey. The
 unemployment rate  dropped to 8.3 percent, the lowest since
February 2009.  The factory workweek climbed to 41.9 hours, the most since
1998, and overtime also increased.  Orders for  goods  meant to least at least three years
increased 3 percent, the Commerce Department report showed. The
reading was the same as the government estimated in a Jan. 26
report.  Orders for  capital goods  excluding aircraft and military
equipment, a measure of future business investment, climbed 3.1
percent after falling 1.5 percent in November. The gain was
larger than estimated last week.  Shipments of such equipment, which are used in calculating
gross domestic product, also increased 3.1 percent after a 0.9
percent drop in November.  More Shipments  Some of the shipment gains may reflect businesses using
their last chance to qualify for a government tax credit that
allowed for 100 percent depreciation on equipment purchases. The
allowance this year dropped to 50 percent.  Business investment remained a bright spot for the world’s
largest economy last quarter. Corporate spending on equipment and
software rose at a 5.2 percent annual rate from October through
December. While down from the prior period’s 16 percent gain,
today’s report indicates it will rebound early this year.  Bookings for non-durable goods, including petroleum and
chemicals, fell 0.4 percent, today’s report showed.  Factory inventories climbed 0.1 percent in December, and
manufacturers had enough goods on hand to last 1.33 months at the
current sales pace, down from 1.34 the prior month.  While weaker demand from Europe and  China  could slow factory
lines, manufacturing has continued to boost production. The
Institute for  Supply Management (NAPMPMI) ’s factory index rose in January
to the highest level in seven months.  Factory Hiring  Paccar Inc. (PCAR) , the maker of Kenworth and Peterbilt trucks,
said it estimates U.S. and Canadian truck sales will rise by
around 14 percent in 2012. The Bellevue, Washington-based
company’s “customers are feeling better than they did a few
years ago,” and businesses that produce components for other
manufacturers are ‘feeling a little bit better as they go into
2012,” said Chief Executive Officer Mark Pigott.  “I think that challenges of probably last summer and early
fall where many suppliers were just still not convinced that this
market was going to continue, they’ve now probably mostly come to
the realization that the market looks to be pretty good,” Pigott
said in a Jan. 31 conference call.  Vehicle demand should also drive production. Cars and light
trucks  sold  at a 14.1 million annual rate last month, according
to industry data. Excluding a surge in August 2009 that reflected
the government’s “cars-for-clunkers” program, it was the
strongest month since May 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in  Washington  at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  