-- Hospices Dump Patients, Escape Millions Owed
-- B y   P e t e r   W a l d m a n
-- 2012-02-03T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/hospices-dump-patients-while-escaping-multimillion-dollar-taxpayer-refunds.html
Lois Armstrong and David Daucher
closed their for-profit hospice in October to get out from under
more than $27 million in refunds it owed the federal Medicare
program, they said.  The same week, they opened a new hospice with new owners.
As a result, the refunds, owed to Medicare for five years’ worth
of overpayments to Sojourn Care Inc. of Tulsa,  Oklahoma , may
never go back to taxpayers. The government links the debt to
Sojourn Care, not to its owners, said Brian Daucher, an attorney
for the company who is David Daucher’s nephew.  “Individuals can walk away from it,” Brian Daucher said.  The demise of Sojourn Care, and the creation of its
successor, RoseRock Healthcare, illustrate how hundreds of
hospices across the U.S. exploit quirks in the Medicare  payment
system  that yield higher reimbursements -- with results that can
hurt taxpayers and patients, said Tulsa physician Sandra
Dimmitt. She had more than 30 Sojourn Care patients in a half-
dozen nursing homes when the hospice shut down.  “My patients were dumped out in the cold,” said Dimmitt, a
former Sojourn Care medical director. “How can you close one
Medicare license, open another and leave the public holding the
bag for your debts? Medicare should be irate.”  Armstrong said Sojourn Care worked hard to transfer all but
a few patients to other providers. Carolina Fortin-Garcia, a
spokeswoman for the federal Centers for Medicare & Medicaid
Services, or CMS, declined to comment on Sojourn Care.  Took Some Patients  Armstrong and David Daucher took about 100 of Sojourn
Care’s more desirable patients with them to the new hospice,
according to interviews with 18 former Sojourn Care nurses,
home-health aides, marketers and doctors. About 180 other
patients, including Merlin Upshaw, were cut loose to find new
caregivers, the former employees said.  Upshaw lost his wheelchair, his toilet riser, his special
hospital bed and his favorite nurse, Clara, when the hospice
shut, said his daughter, Mary Hendricks. Ten days later, after
enrolling in a different program, Upshaw, 92, died of old age,
“in a rickety old bed, on a really hard mattress,” she said.  Hospice  offers palliative and comfort care for dying
patients, in lieu of curative treatments deemed futile at that
point. To be eligible for about $150 a day in Medicare hospice
coverage, a person must have a prognosis of six months or less
to live, certified by two doctors. Patients can stay
indefinitely, provided a doctor recertifies the terminal
prognosis every 60 days.  Cap on Payouts  Medicare effectively  rewards  providers that recruit
healthier patients who can survive in hospice for years,
according to reports by the  Medicare Payment Advisory
Commission , or Medpac, which advises Congress on health-care
policy. Congress in 1982 attempted to discourage such admissions
by mandating the so-called hospice cap -- a limit on the average
Medicare payout per patient.  Hospices that exceed the annual cap, which was almost
$25,000 for 2011, must refund the difference to the government.
That was Sojourn Care’s problem: It racked up $27 million in
such repayment obligations from 2006 through 2010, according to
annual reports it sent to CMS and letters issued by Medicare.  More than 430 hospices, almost all of them  for-profits ,
exceeded the cap in 2009 -- an increase of almost 50 percent
since 2006, according to Medpac. Of them, about 40 percent had
average lengths of stay that exceeded 180 days, and 44 percent
of their patients were discharged alive. In all, the above-cap
hospices owed more than $220 million in repayments in 2009, the
last year data is available.  Collections Suspended  It’s unclear just how much of that money the federal
government will collect. CMS has suspended such collections,
pending changes to the formula for setting the caps that are
expected this spring. At least seven hospices that owed more
than $35 million in repayments have sought  bankruptcy protection 
since 2008.  “What happened to the cash that disappeared into the hands
of the owners?” asked Bruce Stuart, a Medpac commissioner and
pharmacy professor at the University of  Maryland  in Baltimore.
“The ethical question I have is whether these companies are in
business to provide necessary end-of-life care, or whether
they’re in business to defraud the government.”  Fortin-Garcia, the CMS spokeswoman, said the agency “will
examine our ability to prevent hospice owners from simply
terminating provider agreements to avoid repayment.”  In the absence of criminal conduct, the U.S. has no
recourse to collect cap liabilities from individuals, said
Carolyn McNiven, a partner with  DLA Piper  in San Francisco and
former chief of the U.S. Attorney’s Health Care Fraud Task Force
in  Chicago . If improprieties are suspected, prosecutors can
pursue fraud charges or seek to disqualify individuals from
further participation as Medicare providers, she said.  ‘Jaundiced Eye’  “If they see a hospice was managed as a cash cow to draw
out money through fraudulent means, such as unreasonable
management fees, salaries or third-party contracts, they’ll look
at that with a jaundiced eye,” McNiven said.  Sojourn Care was a “high quality hospice” that spent more
on patient care than industry norms, said Lucinda Rojas Ross, a
spokeswoman for Armstrong and David Daucher. Its compliance
record with Medicare rules on patient eligibility was
“virtually spotless,” she said.  From 2005 through 2010, the company reported more than $26
million in cumulative losses on almost $100 million in revenue,
according to reports it filed with CMS. In the same period, it 
reported about $18 million in “administrative and general” expenses
for salaries, benefits and contracts.  No Unusual Compensation  The company’s shareholders never earned a profit, and its
executives never received any “unusual compensation,” Ross
said. She declined to disclose the salaries of Armstrong or
David Daucher. Sojourn Care’s administrative spending in 2010
was roughly in line with several non-profit hospices, according
to Daucher.  When Sojourn Care closed, its patients’ average length of
stay was slightly under 180 days, Daucher said. The national
average is 86 days, according to  Medpac . Sojourn Care managers
resisted discharging patients whose health improved and who
weren’t facing imminent death, said Kim Sklenar, a nurse who
worked there.  “It was a huge ordeal to get someone removed from service,”
Sklenar said.  Sojourn Care exceeded the Medicare cap because “they
didn’t throw people out on the street for living too long,” said
Brian Daucher, its lawyer. The company’s $27 million in cap
bills ultimately made survival impossible, Armstrong said.  “We simply couldn’t see daylight at the end of the
tunnel,” she said.  Stunning Staff Meeting  Many Sojourn Care employees were stunned when Armstrong,
after telling staff for months that the company was stable,
called a meeting on Oct. 14 to announce that it would close in
two weeks, said Risa Sparks, who worked for Sojourn Care as a
nurse. Armstrong didn’t mention plans for RoseRock Healthcare
until someone in the audience asked about rumors of the new
hospice.  “That’s when she started stammering around and said, well,
yes, there is another company, but they’d never be as involved
as they were with Sojourn,” said Sklenar, the nurse.  With uniformed police officers present in the room,
Armstrong told the staffers they were being fired, Sparks said.
Meanwhile, a group of employees that had been offered jobs at
RoseRock were out in the field lining up certain patients the
new company had targeted, she said.  “All of a sudden they went from being eligible for hospice
to ‘Go deal with it,’” Sparks said.  Charity Patients  A RoseRock competitor, Grace Hospice of Tulsa, assessed 20
of the former Sojourn Care patients, enrolled 14 as charity
patients because they were capped out and rejected six as not
dying, said Ava Caughrean, the for-profit hospice’s executive
director. The 14 patients represent about $56,000 a month in
uncollected Medicare reimbursements, she said.  “It’s a big bite, but what I’ve always found in this
business is if you follow the rules, you’ll be OK,” said Otis
Eversole, Grace’s owner. “There’s no question, Sojourn was
slipping Sally through the alley here.”  Armstrong and David Daucher said in an interview that
neither of them will ever own a hospice again. They operate
RoseRock through a separate Tulsa management company they own
called Solstice Healthcare, said Ross, their spokeswoman.
RoseRock is owned by some investors in  Oklahoma City , according
to a license application filed with Oklahoma’s Department of
Health. The document named Armstrong and David Daucher the sole
members of RoseRock’s board of directors.  Shutting Down  By closing Sojourn Care while cap collections are
suspended, Armstrong and David Daucher “shut this down on their
own terms,” without repayment pressure from Medicare, said Brian
Daucher, the company’s attorney.  “We did this because we like doing hospice work,”
Armstrong said. “There aren’t any winners in this whole story.”  Merlin Upshaw “lost his value for Sojourn Care,” said
Hendricks, his daughter. Over 10 days after his discharge, two
other hospices refused to enroll him because his cap allowance
was used up. A third agreed to take him on as a charity case
right before he died, Hendricks said. “We felt sort of cast
adrift.”  Charles Lee Smith, 87, had been with Sojourn Care for a
year, said his son, Jeff Smith. A dementia and heart patient, he
wasn’t picked up by RoseRock. Finding another hospice was
disturbing for his father, who lives at home in Broken Arrow,
Oklahoma, Jeff Smith said.  “I wonder, were we dumped?” he said. “Isn’t that America
-- close your business, change the name and start over.”  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Peter Waldman in  San Francisco  at 
 pwaldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gary Putka at   gputka@bloomberg.net  