-- Total of France Says It Plans to Resume Exploration in South Sudan Block B
-- B y   J a r e d   F e r r i e
-- 2012-02-03T07:44:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/total-of-france-says-it-plans-to-resume-exploration-in-south-sudan-block-b.html
Total SA (FP) , France’s biggest oil
company, said it plans to resume exploration work in South
Sudan’s Block B.  The company, based in Paris, will submit a “preparatory
work program” to South Sudanese authorities for their approval,
spokesman Florent Segura said in an e-mailed response to
questions yesterday. South Sudanese Oil Minister Stephen Dhieu Dau didn’t answer his mobile phone when called for comment
today.  Total holds a 32.5 stake in Block B, which covers most of
Jonglei, an eastern state bordering Ethiopia that has been
wracked by ethnic violence. The  United Nations  says more than
1,000 people were killed in battles between the Murle and Lou
Nuer tribes in 2011, including a series of attacks that began
late in December.  “The group is monitoring the situation on a permanent basis
in the Block B area to ensure the safety of its personnel and
contractors as soon as operations resume,” Segura said.  Last month, Dau said his government would begin contract
negotiations with companies holding concessions on unexploited
blocks, including Total. On Jan. 31, the secretary-general of
 South Sudan ’s ruling Sudan People’s Liberation Movement,  Pagan Amum , told reporters that Total’s vice president had recently
visited Juba and that other company officials were there.  Total signed an exploration and production-sharing
agreement with the government of Sudan in 1980, before
suspending exploration in 1985 because of “escalating insecurity
in the region, related to the civil war,” according to the
company’s website.  South Sudan took control of about three-quarters of Sudan’s
output of 490,000 barrels of oil a day when it gained
independence in July. The crude is pumped mainly by  China
National Petroleum Corp. (CNPZ) ,  Malaysia ’s Petroliam Nasional Bhd. And
India’s ONGC Videsh Ltd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jared Ferrie in Juba via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 