-- Motorola Mobility Wins Second German Ruling Against Apple
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2012-02-03T18:13:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/motorola-mobility-wins-injunction-against-apple-valid-in-germany.html
Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. (MMI)  won a
German patent ruling over  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iCloud service that may
allow the company to block sales of devices including iPhone and
iPad in the country if they use the software that accesses it.  The Mannheim Regional Court found Apple infringed a patent
used to synchronize e-mail accounts. The ruling holds Apple
liable for damages and allows Motorola Mobility to ask for
information about past device sales, Presiding Judge Andreas Voss said.  “The court has come to the conclusion that the wording of
the patent does cover functions that were at issue here,” Voss
said today. Apple “wasn’t able to convince the court that it
isn’t infringing.”  “Apple believes this old pager patent is invalid and we’re
appealing the court’s decision,” said Alan Hely, a spokesman
for the Cupertino, California-based company.  ICloud is a service that automatically stores photos, songs
and other files on servers at Apple’s data centers for use on
all of a customer’s gadgets.  Previous Case  The case is the second Motorola Mobility, the mobile-phone
maker being acquired by  Google Inc. (GOOG) , has won in a German court
against Apple. The company is seeking to enforce an injunction
in the first case involving a cellular-communications patent
that led Apple to remove some older iPhones and iPad models from
its online store in  Germany  overnight.  Apple said in a statement that it will return the products
to the online store after another court temporarily barred
Motorola Mobility from enforcing the injunction. The Karlsruhe
appeals court said it is reviewing Apple’s request to halt the
execution of the order during the appeal of the December ruling.  “We are pleased that the Mannheim court has recognized the
importance of our intellectual property and granted an
enforceable injunction in Germany against Apple Sales
International,” Motorola Mobility  said in a statement.
“Although the enforcement of the injunction has been
temporarily suspended, Motorola Mobility will continue to pursue
its claims against Apple.”  The first bid by Apple for such a delay was rejected in
January because of a dispute over license terms, the appeals
court said in an e-mailed statement. The judges will now look
into an amended license offer by Apple.  Google is buying Motorola Mobility to gain mobile patents
and expand its hardware business. Google’s Android is also the
operating system for smartphones made by companies such as  HTC
Corp. (2498)  and  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  that compete with Apple’s
iPhone.  Collateral  In the iCloud case, Motorola Mobility must post 100 million
euros ($132 million) as collateral if it seeks to suspend sales
of Apple products while Apple appeals the decision. Apple had
asked the court at a November hearing to set it at 2 billion
euros.  German courts often require the winning side to post
collateral in order to enforce a ruling while the loser appeals.
The amount reflects the losses the party may suffer when forced
to comply with the ruling. If it wins the appeal, it can seek
damages and recover the collateral.  Today’s iCloud ruling is LG Mannheim 7 O 229/11, the
suspension appeals case is OLG Karlsruhe 6 U 136/11.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  