-- Motorola Solutions Agrees to Pay $200 Million to Settle Suit
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-02-03T15:41:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/motorola-solutions-reaches-200-million-settlement-in-2007-investor-suit.html
Motorola Solutions Inc . agreed to pay
$200 million to settle a 2007 investor lawsuit accusing the
company of overstating its sales prospects.  The agreement with the company, which was formerly known as
Motorola Inc., must still be approved by U.S. District Judge Amy St. Eve, who was scheduled to preside over a trial starting
April 9 in  Chicago .  “We are pleased to have this behind us,”  Nicholas Sweers ,
a spokesman for the Schaumburg, Illinois-based  company , said
yesterday in a phone interview. “It removes the risk and
distractions of this litigation and enables us to continue to
focus on delivering mission-critical communications solutions.”  Stockholder Eric Silverman initially alleged that then-
Motorola Inc. Chief Executive Officer Edward Zander and other
officers had told investors to expect strong sales growth in the
last quarter of 2006. The lead plaintiffs in the case are the
Macomb County Employees’ Retirement System and the St. Clair
Shores Police & Fire Pension System, both of  Michigan .  When the suit was filed in August 2007 amid declining
sales, Motorola had fallen from the world’s second-biggest
mobile phone maker to third.  ‘Extraordinary Recovery’  “The settlement represents an extraordinary recovery for
investors in a case where there was no financial restatement”
or an investigation by the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission, the plaintiffs’ attorney,  Samuel Rudman  of San
Diego-based Robbins Geller Rudman & Dowd LLP, said in a
statement.  Motorola Solutions climbed 2 percent to $46.71 at 10:33
a.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite  trading . The shares
declined 1.1 percent this year before today.  The parties have asked St. Eve to hold a hearing Feb. 16 to
consider preliminary approval of the accord.  Zander stepped down as CEO in November 2007. He was later
replaced by co-chief executive officers Gregory Brown and Sanjay Jha.  Jha later became founding chairman and CEO of
telecommunications handset-maker  Motorola Mobility  Inc., when
that Libertyville, Illinois-based company spun off from Motorola
in January 2011.  Motorola Mobility wasn’t a party to the lawsuit and isn’t
contributing to the settlement, according to Sweers and  Jennifer Erickson , a Motorola Mobility spokeswoman.  Sweers said the settlement would be paid for using a
combination of insurance and previously booked reserves.  The case is Silverman v. Motorola, 07-cv-04507, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of  Illinois  (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  