-- Panasonic Targets Clean Power for Homes After Fukushima Disaster
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-02-03T15:52:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/panasonic-targets-clean-power-for-homes-after-fukushima-disaster.html
Panasonic Corp . is focusing on making
products to manage renewable power in the home as the Fukushima
nuclear disaster last year spurs generation from wind and solar.  Panasonic, which began selling lamp sockets in 1918 and now
offers products from semiconductors to self-cleaning toilets,
plans to raise the energy-management operations’ share of sales
to 30 percent of its world revenue by 2018, said Laurent Abadie,
Panasonic  Europe  Ltd. chief executive officer. Panasonic posted
global sales of 8.7 trillion yen ($114 billion) last year.  “The future is about new ways to produce, store and manage
energy, which will become a major issue in the coming years,”
he said in an interview in  London , adding Europe will also seek
to raise its clean-energy solutions business to 30 percent of
sales. “Today it’s only a few percent, so it’s major growth.”  The company has been spurred on by the nuclear meltdown at
the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant last year that prompted Germany to
abandon its atomic development plans, Abadie said. “On top of
that, the price for oil is rising and the projection for the
long term is that it will continue to rise,” he said.  Panasonic, which began accepting orders for batteries to
store renewable energy in homes and workplaces from August in
 Japan , will need to contend with rivals such as  Sony Corp. (6758) ,  ABB
Ltd . and  Siemens AG . Companies are entering the market as energy
generation from solar and wind varies depending on the weather,
unlike production from nuclear or fossil fuel-fired plants.  Overseas Expansion  The company is taking orders in Japan for a 0.96 kilowatt-
hour battery for its home solar generator and may expand abroad.
Panasonic, also talking to European utilities on using its power
management systems, hopes to sign deals in 2012, Abadie said.
“Utilities themselves are looking to provide added value to the
market place and we want to work in partnership with them.”  Panasonic sells solar panels and so-called air-source heat
pumps in Europe, and operates a fuel-cell research center in
 Germany  to extend technology used in Japan to the continent. The
company plans to begin sales of a light-emitting diode lamp in
Europe from April that matches the output of a traditional 40-
watt incandescent device with only 7 watts of power use.  It will open the eco-house concept in  Fujisawa , Japan, in
2013, with homes that produce, store and manage their own power.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  