-- Panasonic Predicts Record $10 Billion Loss on Thai Floods, Sanyo Writedown
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2012-02-03T11:47:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/panasonic-forecasts-record-10-billion-loss-on-thai-floods-stronger-yen.html
Panasonic Corp. (6752)  almost doubled its
annual loss forecast to a record 780 billion yen ($10 billion),
the latest Japanese electronics company to predict weaker
earnings because of Thailand floods and slowing demand for TVs.  The revised estimate, which includes goodwill writedown,
compares with the 420 billion-yen loss Panasonic predicted in
October. The loss in the 12 months ending in March will be the
biggest since the world’s largest maker of plasma TVs was
founded in 1918.  President Fumio Ohtsubo is eliminating jobs, shifting
output overseas and trying to transform the Osaka-based company
into a leader in solar panels and rechargeable batteries amid
mounting competition in TVs. Panasonic joins  Sony Corp. (6758)  and
 Sharp Corp. (6753)  in increasing loss forecasts as they struggle to
cope with weak sales after the floods and March earthquake in
Japan crippled plants and suppliers.  “We can’t see the market for consumer electronics
improving anytime soon,” said  Yuuki Sakurai , chief executive
officer at Fukoku Capital Management Inc. in  Tokyo , which
manages the equivalent of $7.4 billion. “There’s a mismatch
between the products they make and what consumers want.”  Panasonic rose 1.2 percent to close at 599 yen in Tokyo
 trading  before the announcement, extending its loss this year to
8.4 percent. Japan’s broader Topix index rose 4.4 percent in the
same period.  Sanyo Charge  Panasonic is booking a 290 billion-yen charge for goodwill
writedown in the year ending in March, with 250 billion yen
stemming from its purchase of Sanyo Electric Co.  Operating profit  will probably total 30 billion yen in the
year, compared with the company’s previous forecast of 130
billion yen, Panasonic said. The company cut its forecast of
annual revenue to 8 trillion yen from 8.3 trillion yen.  Sony yesterday said it expects an annual loss of 220
billion yen, more than double its previous estimate. Sharp,
 Japan ’s largest maker of liquid-crystal displays, this week said
it may lose 290 billion yen, its worst annual loss since the
company was founded a century ago.  For the three months ended Dec. 31, Panasonic reported a
net loss of 197.6 billion yen, compared with the 3 billion-yen
average of four analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “We’re in the midst of a transformation into an
environmental innovation company,” Ohtsubo told reporters in
Tokyo today. “We’ll focus on carrying out reforms so that we
can realize a V-shaped recovery.”  TV Reform  The world’s No. 4 TV maker is boosting output and buying
more parts overseas as gains in the Japanese yen make it more
expensive to manufacture in Japan. The company cut its annual TV
sales target to 18 million sets from 19 million earlier as it
competes against Samsung Electronics Co. and LG Electronics Inc.  Global LCD-TV shipments probably gained 8 percent to 206
million units last year, falling short of an earlier projection
of 211 million units, according to an October forecast by
DisplaySearch. The shipments rose 13 percent in the quarter
ended Dec. 31 from a year earlier, according to the researcher,
which estimates annual shipments will rise 10 percent in 2012.  In October, Panasonic announced a plan to revamp its TV and
chip operations. The company is suspending two TV display plants
in Japan, scrapping plans to relocate panel facilities to  China 
and writing off some value of plants making displays and
semiconductors.  Subhed  The measures, when combined with cost reductions, more
parts purchases from Asian makers and the recovery from flood
damages, probably will boost the company’s profit by about 250
billion yen in the year starting April 1, the company said in a
statement today.  The maker of Viera televisions and Lumix cameras halted
operations in October at its three Thailand factories making
home appliances and other products following the nation’s worst
floods in 70 years. The disaster will reduce this year’s sales
by 130 billion yen and profit by 60 billion yen, it said.  Panasonic plans to strengthen sales of solar panels in
Japan, energy-efficient home appliances overseas and
rechargeable  car batteries , Ohtsubo said.  The company will spend 45 billion yen building a plant for
solar cells and modules in  Malaysia , the company said in
November. The maker of microwave ovens, rice cookers and
cordless drills will offer washers and refrigerators in  North
America  next fiscal year, Ohtsubo said.  It also is shifting its procurement base to  Singapore  from
 Osaka  to buy more parts in  Asia .  Panasonic bought a controlling stake in Sanyo, Japan’s
largest maker of rechargeable batteries, in 2008 and made it a
wholly-owned company last year to accelerate its expansion in
battery businesses. It also merged  Panasonic Electric Works (6991) ,
which makes lighting systems, electrical wiring fittings and
electronic materials, last year.  “Panasonic has been trying to move away from competition
with its South Korean rivals, but the company’s efforts, such as
buying Sanyo, haven’t brought any results,” said Koji Toda,
chief  fund manager  at Resona Bank Ltd. in Tokyo. “Panasonic
needs to move faster.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  