-- Paulson’s Advantage Plus Hedge Fund Said to Rise 5% in January
-- B y   K e l l y   B i t
-- 2012-02-03T23:31:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/paulson-s-advantage-plus-fund-said-to-gain-5-in-january-after-2011-plunge.html
John Paulson , the billionaire money
manager who had his worst year on record in 2011, posted a 5
percent gain in January in one of his largest  hedge funds  as all
strategies rose, according to a person briefed on the returns.  Paulson & Co., which is based in New York and manages about
$24 billion, lost money in what he called an “aberrational
year” on investments including Citigroup Inc., Bank of America
Corp. and  Sino-Forest Corp. (TRE) , the Chinese forestry company
accused by short-seller Carson Block of overstating timberland
holdings. Paulson’s Advantage Plus Fund had a 51 percent loss in
2011.  The gold share class of the Advantage Plus Fund, which
seeks to profit from corporate events such as takeovers and
bankruptcies and uses leverage to amplify returns, increased 7.4
percent in January. Paulson investors can choose between dollar-
and gold-denominated versions for most of the firm’s funds.  Paulson’s Gold Fund, which can buy derivatives and other
gold-related investments, jumped 13 percent in January, said the
person, who asked not to be identified because the information
is private. Paulson’s bullion-related investments worked in the
first part of last year until the metal slumped 14 percent in
the final four months of 2011.  Armel Leslie , a spokesman for Paulson, declined to comment
on the firm’s returns. Some returns were reported earlier today
by Business Insider’s Clusterstock website.  Gold’s Surge  Gold surged 11 percent last month, the biggest January
increase since 1983, as investors speculated that low rates in
developed nations such as the U.S. and  Canada  will spur global
growth.  Paulson, 56, has been betting on a U.S. economic recovery
by the end of this year, which had led to losses in 2011 as the
European sovereign-debt crisis roiled stock markets and spurred
sharp price swings in equities. The Recovery Fund, which invests
in assets Paulson believes will benefit from a long-term
economic upturn, such as hotels, financial services and real
estate companies, climbed 3.2 percent last month. Its gold
shares gained 9.8 percent.  The Paulson Partners Enhanced Fund, which invests in the
shares of merging companies, gained 4.1 percent in January and
its gold share class jumped 10 percent. Paulson’s Credit
Opportunities Fund returned 3.5 percent last month and its gold
shares climbed 8.9 percent.  Paulson’s Advantage Fund, which employs a similar strategy
to Advantage Plus, rose 4 percent in January. Its gold share
class increased 9.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelly Bit in  New York  at 
 kbit@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  