-- Payrolls Jump Casts Doubt on Fed’s Rate Pledge: Economy
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2012-02-03T21:29:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/payrolls-in-u-s-jumped-243-000-in-january-unemployment-rate-drops-to-8-3-.html
The U.S. jobless rate unexpectedly
fell in January to the lowest in three years as payrolls climbed
more than forecast, casting doubt on the  Federal Reserve ’s plan
to keep  interest rates  low until late 2014.  The  unemployment rate  dropped to 8.3 percent, the lowest
since February 2009, Labor Department figures showed today in
Washington. The 243,000 increase in jobs was the biggest in nine
months and exceeded the most optimistic forecast in a Bloomberg
News survey. Service industries grew by the most in a year,
according to a separate report.  “We’ve reached an important threshold here,” said  Chris Rupkey , chief financial economist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi
UFJ Ltd. in New York. “The recovery is for real.”  Stocks and bond yields jumped on optimism the economy will
weather the European debt crisis as an improving labor market
fuels household spending. The data, which showed gains from
factories to retailers, may boost President Barack Obama’s re-
election bid and come a week after Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
said unemployment would be slow to decline.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 1.5 percent to
1,344.90 at the close of trading in  New York , extending the best
start to a year since 1987. The index is up 6.9 percent in 2012.
The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note climbed to 1.92
percent from 1.82 percent late yesterday.  Survey of Economists  The median projection in the Bloomberg survey called for
payrolls to rise by 140,000. Estimates of the 89 economists
ranged from increases of 95,000 to 225,000. Revisions added a
total of 60,000 jobs to payrolls in November and December.  “The payroll gains we’re seeing in this report are
consistent with significant improvement in  consumer spending ,”
said  Carl Riccadonna , a senior U.S. economist at Deutsche Bank
Securities Inc. in New York. “If we hold at these levels, it
will change a lot of expectations for economic growth, the labor
market recovery, inflation and the Fed’s policy response.”  Sustained increases of around 200,000 jobs a month are
needed to bring the  unemployment rate  down one percentage point
over a year, according to  Stephen Stanley , chief economist at
Pierpont Securities LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .  Obama used today’s report to push lawmakers for an
extension of the payroll-tax cut for workers and unemployment
benefits.  “The recovery is speeding up,” Obama said at a fire
station in Arlington, Virginia. “And we’ve got to do everything
in our power to keep it going.”  European Sales  Elsewhere, European retail sales unexpectedly declined in
December, led by Germany and  France , as unemployment at a 14-
year high and government spending cuts sapped consumer demand.  Gains in U.S. employment last month were broad-based,
including manufacturing, construction, temporary help agencies,
accounting firms, restaurants and retailers.  Employment, overtime and hours worked in factories
increased as manufacturers, who have been leading the two-year
recovery, boosted production to rebuild inventories and meet
global demand for their goods.  Assembly-line workers put in an average 41.9 hours of work
each week, the most since January 1998, while overtime hours
climbed to the highest since March 2007. Manufacturing payrolls
increased by 50,000 in January, the most in a year.  Peoria, Illinois-based  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) , the world’s
biggest maker of earthmoving equipment, plans to hire more
workers this year as it expands facilities, including in
Victoria, Texas, and Winston-Salem, North Carolina, Chief
Financial Officer Edward Rapp said yesterday.  Employment Growth  “Those are the things that will lead to employment growth
here,” Rapp said in an interview with Betty Liu on Bloomberg
Television’s “In the Loop.”  The  unemployment  rate, derived from a separate survey of
households, was forecast to stay at 8.5 percent, according to
the survey median. The drop in the jobless rate reflected a
381,000 decrease in unemployment at the same time 250,000
Americans entered the  labor force .  Private payrolls, which exclude government agencies, rose
257,000 in January after a revised gain of 220,000 the prior
month, marking the biggest back-to-back gain since March-April.
It was projected to climb by 160,000.  Employment at service-providers increased 162,000, the most
in four months, reflecting faster job gains in retail,
transportation and leisure and hospitality.  Software Company  Tibco Software Inc. (TIBX)  plans to hire 500 people in the U.S.
this year as the economy improves and  Europe  works out its debt
crisis, Vivek Ranadive, chief executive officer of the Palo
Alto, California-based company said in an interview.  “We are hiring quite rapidly now, all in sales and
service,” Ranadive said last week at the World Economic Forum’s
annual conference in Davos, Switzerland. “It’s a good time to
hire.”  The Institute for Supply Management said today that its
index of  non-manufacturing  industries, which account for almost
90 percent of the economy, rose to 56.8 in January from 53 a
month earlier. The Tempe, Arizona-based group’s measure was
projected to climb to 53.2, according to the median forecast in
a Bloomberg survey. Readings above 50 signal growth.  Construction companies added 21,000 workers last month. The
number of people unable to go to work because of bad weather, a
proxy for the climate’s effect on the labor market, was 206,000
last month, less than half the 424,000 average for the month
since 1976. The shortfall signals mild weather may have played a
role in the gain in employment, according to Neil Dutta, an
economist at Bank of America Corp. in New York.  Government Payrolls  Government payrolls decreased by 14,000 in January,
reflecting cuts at the federal and local levels.  Average hourly earnings rose 0.2 percent to $23.29, today’s
report showed. The average work week for all workers held at
34.5 hours.  The so-called underemployment rate -- which includes part-
time workers who’d prefer a full-time position and people who
want work but have given up looking -- decreased to 15.1 percent
from 15.2 percent.  The Fed said on Jan. 25 after a two-day meeting that it
would keep its benchmark lending rate low “at least” until
late 2014 from a prior target of mid-2013.  Bernanke, speaking at a news conference after the meeting,
said that the option of a third round of large-scale bond
purchases, known as quantitative easing, is still “on the
table.”  ‘Long Way to Go’  “We still have a long way to go before the labor market
can be said to be operating normally,” Bernanke told the House
Budget Committee in  Washington  yesterday.  Today’s figures may change the Fed’s thinking, said  Michael Feroli , chief U.S. economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in New
York. “The report definitely scales down the odds for QE3,
particularly the drop in the unemployment rate,” Feroli said.
“There is strength in the labor market.”  The number of unemployed Americans dropped to 12.8 million,
the lowest since January 2009, from 13.1 million in December.
Still, the number of those who have been unemployed for 27 weeks
or more -- a source of concern for the Fed -- was little changed
at 5.52 million and accounted for almost 43 percent of the
total.  “We should welcome the headline numbers, they are really
good, but we should not lose sight that we have structural
issues that aren’t being dealt with,”  Mohamed A. El-Erian ,
chief executive officer of Pacific Investment Management Co.,
said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop”
with Betty Liu.  Among those still looking for work is Richard Richardson,
33, a former assistant district attorney for the city of  San
Francisco  who moved to the Washington area with his wife last
year to look for a government job.  “It’s been a trying process,” he said, adding that he
hasn’t yet had a single interview. Still, “I do feel confident
that it’s just a matter of time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  