-- Perella Loses $22.5 Million Fee After NYSE, Deutsche Boerse Deal Blocked
-- B y   W i l l   R o b i n s o n
-- 2012-02-03T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/perella-loses-22-5-million-fee-after-nyse-deutsche-boerse-deal-blocked.html
Perella Weinberg  Partners LP will
miss out on the chance to receive a $22.5 million fee after
 Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  and  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  ended their merger
agreement.  The European Commission said it blocked the deal to create
the world’s biggest exchange because it would have led to a
“near-monopoly” for European derivatives trading. NYSE
announced the deal’s termination in  a statement  yesterday on its
website.  Perella was the sole adviser to NYSE until shortly before
the exchange agreed to the combination a year ago, two people
with knowledge of the situation told Bloomberg News at the time.
The firm, founded in 2006 by  Peter Weinberg  and others, got $5
million when the agreement was announced and would have received
an additional $22.5 million had the deal gone through, according
to a regulatory filing.  “They’re not going to get a fee that they would’ve liked,
but the visibility is probably a positive as long as they were
perceived to have given good advice,” said Steve Kaplan, a
professor at the University of Chicago Booth School of
Business. “I don’t think this would be viewed as something that
could’ve been fixed by different financial advice.”  Kara Findlay, a spokeswoman for Perella Weinberg, declined
to comment. NYSE won’t have to pay a break-up fee because the
merger was terminated for regulatory reasons, rather than
because one of the parties exited the deal or a third party got
involved.  If the deal had gone through,  Deutsche Boerse  adviser
Deutsche Bank AG may have received 14 million euros ($18.4
million) and JPMorgan Chase & Co. $10 million, according to the
filing.  Deutsche Boerse agreed to acquire its New York rival in a
deal valued at $9.5 billion when it was announced last February.
Deutsche Boerse, based in  Frankfurt , retreated more than 20
percent through Feb. 1 since the companies said they were in
merger talks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Will Robinson in New York at 
 wrobinson11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  