-- Peyton Manning’s Neck Surgeon Clears NFL Return as Colts Say Not So Fast
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-02-03T18:02:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/peyton-manning-s-neck-surgeon-clears-nfl-return-as-colts-say-not-so-fast.html
The surgeon who fused  Peyton Manning ’s neck says the Indianapolis Colts’ quarterback has been
cleared to play. The National Football League team’s owner says
not so fast.  “Peyton Manning underwent a thorough medical re-evaluation
as part of a postoperative visit with his surgeon,” Robert
Watkins said yesterday in a statement. “As a result of this
examination, Manning is medically cleared to play professional
football.”  Team owner  Jim Irsay  responded on Twitter by writing,
“Peyton has not passed our physical nor has he been cleared to
play for The Indianapolis Colts.”  Irsay added that a team statement on the situation would be
released today.  The disagreement comes as the Colts are trying to decide
whether to pick up a $28 million contract option on Manning, who
missed the entire 2011 NFL season after having the spinal-fusion
surgery -- the third on his neck -- in September.  The team, which has until March 8 to make a decision,
finished 2-14 last season and has the top pick in the  NFL draft .
Irsay has said that the Colts would draft highly touted
quarterback  Andrew Luck  out of Stanford University.  Following the firings of Colts coach Jim Caldwell, Vice
Chairman  Bill Polian  and General Manager Chris Polian, Manning
told the Indianapolis Star in January that the team’s practice
facility wasn’t a good place for healing from the spinal fusion
surgery.  “It’s not a real good environment down there right now, to
say the least,” he said. “Everybody’s walking around on
eggshells.”  Irsay, 52, and Manning, 35, issued a joint statement on
Jan. 27 to say that there were no hard feelings between the two.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 