-- Polish BGK’s Kowalczyk Sees Zloty Gains on Growing Economy
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2012-02-03T14:06:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/polish-bgk-s-kowalczyk-sees-zloty-gains-on-growing-economy-1-.html
Poland ’s zloty may strengthen toward
its “fair value” of 4 per euro after last year’s depreciation,
as the European Central Bank’s loans stabilize markets and the
Polish economy grows, according to Wojciech Kowalczyk, Bank
Gospodarstwa Krajowego’s deputy Chief Executive Officer.  The zloty may appreciate to between 3.9 and 4.1 versus the
euro, the executive at the state-owned bank that exchanges
foreign currencies on behalf of the Finance Ministry said in an
interview in Warsaw yesterday. It traded 0.5 percent stronger at
4.1684 against the common currency as of 3:04 p.m. in Warsaw.  The zloty has rallied to a five-month high this week,
spurred by Poland’s fastest economic  growth  since 2008 and
record loans advanced to European banks from the  European
Central Bank , which helped alleviate liquidity concerns stemming
from the euro area’s debt crisis. The zloty pared last year’s 11
percent slump versus the euro as the region’s woes spread.  “After such a deep zloty depreciation last year we could
see a strong swing in the opposite direction,” Kowalczyk said.
“Poland’s fundamental situation is now totally different and
there was no justification for the weakening other than external
factors.”  BGK and the central bank bought the zloty on the market
last year to curb the slide and help prevent the value of
Poland’s foreign debt from breaching limits that would trigger
compulsory austerity measures.  ‘Speculative Investors’  The Finance Ministry tasked BGK with exchanging as much as
14 billion euro ($18.4 billion) on the market last year from the
country’s inflows from the European Union. The central bank’s
foreign currency sales last year were the first attempt to
bolster the zloty since it was floated in 2000.  “Thanks to the central bank’s moves, speculative investors
has received a clear signal that they can’t move the market
without risk or consequences,” Kowalczyk said. “The
cooperation between the central bank and the  Finance Ministry  is
exemplary.”  Polish importers had bought “large quantities” of euro
and dollars in December, concerned that the zloty would weaken
further, while exporters held off foreign currency sales,
according to Kowalczyk. Now, as the zloty strengthens, exporters
are more active in the market, he said.  Economic growth will exceed 3 percent this year as the
country increases infrastructure investment ahead of  Europe ’s
soccer championships in June and as the 16-team tournament co-
hosted by Poland and Ukraine boosts consumption, Kowalczyk said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  