-- Portugal Bond Rout Overstates Greek Likeness
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   J o a o   L i m a
-- 2012-02-03T11:42:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/portugal-bond-market-rout-overstates-greek-likeness-euro-credit.html
Portugal ’s bond-market rout suggests
investors aren’t rewarding the nation’s austerity efforts and
are concerned about a Greek-style reduction in debt repayments.  Portuguese bonds handed investors a loss of 6.9 percent so
far this year, the worst performance among 26 sovereign-debt
markets tracked by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. The slump that drove its yields to
euro-era  records  this week overstates the risk of investor
losses, known as haircuts, according to analysts at Deutsche
Bank AG, BNP Paribas SA and ING Groep NV. Portugal has a lower
funding gap than Greece and its progress in cutting its deficit
will allow it to better weather debt-market turmoil, they said.  “Just because Portugal trades where it trades doesn’t mean
it needs a haircut,” said  Padhraic Garvey , head of developed
market debt at ING in Amsterdam. “Our baseline view is that
Portugal probably needs another two or three years of help from
the European Union and  International Monetary Fund , but that
haircuts will be avoided.”  The nation’s two-year note  yields  reached a euro-era high
of 21.82 percent on Jan. 31, surging almost 10 percentage
points, or 1,000 basis points, in less than three weeks. Ten-
year yields also rose to a euro-era record that day, climbing to
18.29 percent. The rates were 17.63 percent and 14.32 percent,
respectively, at 11:29 a.m. London time.  Bond Price Slump  The price of the 10-year Portuguese bonds sank to less than
40 percent of face value on Jan. 30, even as the government said
there’s no risk of investors being asked to take losses on the
securities. Greek bonds of similar maturity trade at about 20.74
cents on the euro, while Irish bonds maturing in October 2020
are worth 86.68.  Portugal followed  Greece  and Ireland in seeking an
international bailout last year as the euro-region crisis
intensified. This year’s slump in bond prices, exacerbated by a
Standard & Poor’s rating cut, fueled speculation that investors
won’t buy new bonds from the nation next year before funds from
its 78 billion-euro ($102 billion) rescue run out. That in turn
may lead to efforts to persuade existing bond holders to accept
losses, mirroring Greece’s debt forgiveness program.  Current prices overstate that risk, according to Ricardo Santos, a European economist at BNP Paribas in London, because
Portugal is making more progress with its reforms than Greece,
its government has a stronger political mandate, and its 2011
deficit will probably be below 6 percent while Greece’s will be
closer to 10 percent.  Huge Contagion  Europe ’s authorities, working to contain the region’s debt
crisis, may also be reluctant to impose losses on Portugal’s
lenders because such a deal could spread contagion to the
region’s third- and fourth-largest economies, Italy and  Spain ,
Santos said.  “The attitude of the European authorities toward Portugal
is different to Greece,” he said. “Portugal’s 2013 funding
needs are much lower than Greece, there’s a funding gap of
around 10 billion euros, according to our estimates, which is
low compared with the cost of potential spillover effects of a
private-sector deal in Portugal. The contagion would be huge.”  Unlike Greece, Portugal is on track with the austerity plan
it agreed to implement in return for its bailout cash. The
adjustment program is “well on track,” Finance Minister Vitor Gaspar said on Feb. 1, saying yields don’t reflect the progress
that the country has made controlling its  budget deficit .  Austerity Plans  The government’s plan is to trim its budget deficit to 4.5
percent of gross domestic product in 2012, and to the EU ceiling
of 3 percent in 2013, down from 9.8 percent in 2010. Its debt
load is projected to “stabilize” at 112 percent of gross
domestic product in 2013, after reaching 111 percent this year,
the European Commission forecast in November. Greece’s ratio of
debt to GDP was predicted to be more than 198 percent this year,
with a 2012 deficit of 7 percent, the forecasts show.  Prime Minister  Pedro Passos Coelho ’s majority also puts the
nation in a more favorable position than Greece, which will
probably hold elections after a second bailout agreement for the
nation is reached, according to Mohit Kumar, head of euro-area
rates strategy at Deutsche Bank in  London .  “Portugal is structurally different from Greece,” he
said. It has “better debt dynamics in terms of debt to GDP and
better political dynamics with the newly elected government
having a clear mandate for austerity measures.”  Greece’s inability to implement reforms led the IMF to cut
its economic forecasts for the country three times in six months
last year and to delay payment of loans. The nation is
negotiating a voluntary debt exchange with bond investors to
slice 100 billion euros from the 205 billion euros of privately-
owned Greek debt. That would help it reach a debt-to-GDP ratio
of 120 percent by the end of 2020.  Coelho Majority  Passos Coelho, Portugal’s Social Democratic prime minister,
formed a coalition with the  People’s Party , known as the CDS-PP,
after June elections. Coelho’s majority coalition took over from
the Socialist Party’s minority administration, easing the
passage of spending cuts and asset sales.  The underperformance of Portuguese bonds this year was
“largely driven by index rebalancing related flows following
the S&P downgrade,” according to Kumar.  Portugal’s credit rating was cut two levels to BB by S&P on
Jan. 13 as the ratings agency said the debt-swap process in
Greece could alienate potential investors in Portuguese debt.
The downgrade to below investment grade meant Portugal was
removed from Citigroup Inc.’s European Government Bond Index.  ‘Committed and Credible’  Greece presents a higher risk of default than Portugal,
according to  Fitch Ratings . Portugal’s government “is committed
and credible,”  David Riley , head of the sovereign-debt unit at
Fitch Ratings, said at a conference in  New York  on Feb. 1. “In
the near term we don’t see them as a significant risk to the
rest of the  euro zone .”  Still, Portugal’s  two-year yield  difference with similar-
maturity benchmark German notes is 1,739 basis points, compared
with 234 basis points for the Spanish-German spread and 273
basis points for the Italian-German spread. Greece’s two-year
yield spread over  Germany  is 18,430 basis points.  “The market is getting way ahead of itself, looking for
the next victim,” said Eric Wand, a fixed-income strategist at
Lloyds Bank Corporate Markets in London. “Talking about private
sector involvement is premature. There’s no need at the moment,
but Portugal has become the next target after Greece.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Joao Lima in Lisbon at   jlima1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Gilbert  at   magilbert@bloomberg.net . 