-- Posco Full-Year Profit Declines as Global Slowdown Erodes Steel Demand
-- B y   S u n g w o o   P a r k
-- 2012-02-03T07:24:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/posco-full-year-profit-declines-as-global-slowdown-erodes-steel-demand.html
Posco (005490) , the world’s third-largest
steelmaker, reported a 12 percent decline in full-year group
profit as the economic slowdown eroded demand and prices for the
alloy used in cars, ships and construction.  Net income fell to 3.7 trillion won ($3.3 billion) in the
year ended Dec. 31 from 4.19 trillion won a tear earlier,
according to a regulatory filing today. The company forecast
sales in 2012 will probably be in the range of 37.7 trillion won
($33.7 billion) to 41.2 trillion won on a parent basis, compared
with 39.17 trillion won last year. Group sales will total 70.6
trillion won to 74.3 trillion won, compared with 68.94 trillion
won, it said.  Steel demand worldwide is being tempered by cooling
economies in  China  and  Europe , where orders for steel products
for houses, cars and machinery are stagnating and are keeping
the alloy’s prices and overseas shipments muted. Posco joins
China’s  Baoshan Iron & Steel Co.  and Nippon Steel Corp. of  Japan 
in forecasting weaker demand.  “The key focus is whether steel prices will recover,”
Bang Minjin, an analyst with HI Investment & Securities Co.,
said before the announcement. “Macro-economic conditions are
pretty bad now. Still, we expect Posco’s profit momentum to
improve from the second quarter because raw-material costs may
fall.”  Posco fell 0.4 percent to close at 417,000 won in Seoul
trading today. The announcement came after the stock market
closed. The shares have lost 9.5 percent in the past year,
compared with a 4.8 percent drop in the benchmark  Kospi (KOSPI)  index.  Falling Demand  Global use of steel will rise 4.5 percent this year, less
than the 5.4 percent forecast in October by the World Steel
Association, according to the median estimate of 14 steelmakers,
analysts and traders surveyed by Bloomberg. Growth may be as low
as 1.2 percent, according to Bloomberg Industries analysts.  Posco plans to spend 4.5 trillion won to 5.1 trillion won
this year, it said. The company’s average selling prices for its
benchmark hot-rolled coils probably dropped by about 5 percent
in the fourth quarter of 2011 from the previous quarter, Chris Kim, an analyst with Samsung Securities Co., wrote in a Jan. 11
report.  South Korea ’s economy grew the least in two years in the
fourth quarter.  Baoshan, Nippon  Baoshan, China’s largest publicly traded mill, said Jan. 13
that its unaudited 2011 full-year net income fell 43 percent.
 Nippon Steel (5401) , Japan’s largest steelmaker, last week reported its
first loss in three quarters and cut its full-year profit target
to zero, while JFE Holdings Inc. forecast its first annual loss.
Angang Steel Co., the biggest Hong Kong-traded steelmaker, swung
to a loss last year.  Posco’s operating profit may fall in the current quarter
and then recover to more than 1 trillion won in the second
quarter helped by a likely increase in prices and lower costs of
iron ore and coal, Lee Jong Hyoung, an analyst with Meritz
Securities Co., wrote in a Jan. 18 report. Input costs may drop
by about 10 percent in the first quarter and another 10 percent
in the second quarter, said Jeon Seung Hun, an analyst with
Daewoo Securities Co.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sungwoo Park in Seoul at 
 spark47@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net ;
 Richard Dobson  at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  