-- Premier League Wins U.K. Ruling Against Pubs on Broadcasts
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-02-03T16:21:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/premier-league-wins-u-k-ruling-against-pubs-on-broadcasts-1-.html
The Premier League, home to some of
 Europe ’s most successful soccer clubs including  Manchester
United , won a copyright ruling against British pub owners who
saved money using non-U.K. decoder cards to show matches.  While the use of any European Union card is legal in the
U.K., following a ruling last year by the bloc’s highest court,
taverns still violate the league’s copyright when their patrons
can view footage of previous matches, logos, pre-recorded video
sequences and anthems that aren’t authorized for use across
borders, Judge David Kitchin ruled today in London.  “The defendants who are continuing to trade must be
entitled to carry on their business in a way which avoids
infringement” of the Premier League’s copyrights “if they are
able to do so,” Kitchin said. He issued an injunction against
the pubs and referred the case for monetary damages.  The ruling incorporated a judgment from the European
Union’s highest court in October, which limited how pub and bar
owners may show copyrighted material to customers. The ruling by
the EU Court of Justice in Luxembourg held that the Premier
League’s geographic restrictions on broadcasters showing its
soccer matches breach EU antitrust rules.  The judgment “is consistent with the ECJ ruling,” Nick
Noble, a Premier League spokesman, said in a statement. “The
law gives us the right to prevent the unauthorized use of our
copyrights in pubs and clubs when they are communicated to the
public without our authority.”  Partial Setback  A call to Smithfield Partners in  London , a  law firm  for one
of the lead defendants, wasn’t immediately returned.  Today’s ruling was still a partial setback for the Premier
League because it voided contract provisions that restrict
foreign authorized broadcasters from supplying decoder cards to
subscribers outside of their territory, said  Daniel Geey , a
lawyer with Field Fisher Waterhouse LLP in London.  “This may have significant implications for the way that
the Premier League will be able to tender its matches in the
next rights auction,” Geey said in an e-mail. “It appears that
the Premier League will not be able to partition” EU countries.  The Premier League started a three-year 1.8 billion-pound
($2.85 billion) U.K. television contract in August 2010, and
receives a further 1.4 billion pounds from the sale of
international broadcast rights.  Territorial licenses are contrary to competition law if the
license agreements “prohibit the supply of decoder cards to
television viewers who wish to watch the broadcasts,” the EU
court said last year. Pubs can’t show the feeds via foreign
decoder cards without the permission of the copyright owner,
such as the broadcasters and the league, it said.  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY) , the U.K.’s biggest pay-
TV operator, has said the foreign decoder cards are “illicit”
because they’re used outside their specified area.  Karen Murphy , owner of the Red, White and Blue Pub in
Southsea,  England , faces a criminal lawsuit after buying a
decoder card intended for home use that allows her to show
league games from Greek television.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  