-- Primary Global’s Fleishman Asks to Stay Free During Appeal
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-02-03T00:39:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/primary-global-s-fleishman-asks-to-stay-free-on-bail-during-his-appeal.html
Former Primary Global Research LLC
executive James Fleishman, sentenced to 2 1/2 years in prison
for his role in an insider-trading scheme, is asking a federal
appeals court in  New York  to allow him to remain free on appeal.  Fleishman was convicted in September of two separate
conspiracy charges for what the U.S. said was a scheme to obtain
and pass along confidential information from technology company
employees who moonlighted as consultants for  Mountain View ,
California-based Primary Global, a so-called expert-networking
firm. The tips were given to fund managers who paid Primary
Global for consultation calls, prosecutors said.  In December, U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff in Manhattan
denied Fleishman’s request to dismiss his conviction or grant
him a new trial. Rakoff ordered Fleishman to surrender to U.S.
Bureau of Prisons officials by Feb.7.  “Mr. Fleishman will present substantial questions on
appeal, and therefore this court should order bail pending
appeal,” his lawyer,  Ethan Balogh , said in court papers filed
Jan. 31 with the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in New York.  Balogh said prosecutors failed to establish that any acts
committed to further the conspiracy occurred in New York. He
also said Fleishman, of  Santa Clara ,  California , was improperly
barred from testifying in his own defense after he was directed
to turn over his personal diaries to prosecutors.  ‘Novel Question’  “This appeal will present a novel question, and the
government’s analysis reveals the weakness of its position,”
Balogh said in court papers. He didn’t return a voice-mail
message seeking comment on the filing.  At Fleishman’s December sentencing, Rakoff denied his bid
to remain free during an appeal, said Assistant U.S. Attorney
 David Leibowitz .  Leibowitz said the U.S. presented evidence at trial that
Mark Anthony Longoria, then an  Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD) 
employee who also worked as a PGR consultant, disclosed
nonpublic information on calls to Spyridon “Sam” Adondakis, an
analyst with fund manager Level Global Investors LP. Adondakis
was at his Manhattan offices when the call occurred, Leibowitz
said.  Last month, federal prosecutors in New York charged seven
men, including Adondakis and his boss, Level Global co-founder
Anthony Chiasson, with being members of a “criminal club” of
men who passed insider-trading tips and reaped almost $62
million.  Pleaded Guilty  Adondakis and two others have pleaded guilty and are
cooperating with the U.S., prosecutors said. Chiasson’s lawyer,
Greg Morvillo, has said his client will fight the charges.  The U.S. also argued Fleishman wasn’t wrongfully denied his
right to testify at trial, saying, “If a defendant elects to
testify, he will be subject to all cross-examination within the
scope of his direct testimony and may not claim the protection
of the Fifth Amendment.”  The case is U.S. v. Nguyen, 11-cr-32, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  