-- Private-Equity Rallies Around Mitt Romney’s Dodd-Frank Cure
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y   a n d   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 2012-02-03T18:05:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/private-equity-partners-rally-around-romney-as-the-antidote-to-dodd-frank.html
One evening in late September,  Mitt Romney  supporters gathered at the $3 million Boca Raton,
Florida, home of Marc Leder, the Sun Capital Partners Inc. co-
founder behind the takeovers of retailers Friendly Ice Cream
Corp., Limited stores and ShopKo Stores Inc.  Waiters served brie-stuffed French toast and short-rib
tartlets as guests including Daniel Staton, chairman of social-
networking company  FriendFinder Networks Inc. (FFN) , lingered about
the 10,657 square-foot (990 square-meter), six-bedroom
waterfront  home . Then they gathered inside for a half-hour
speech by Romney, whose years of buying and selling companies
for Bain Capital LLC left him with a worth of as much as $250
million and a natural rapport with the crowd.  “It’s kind of hard for Romney to come across being a
regular Joe,” said Staton. “But put him in a room full of 400
business guys that are all successful, that relate to him, he
comes off beautifully.”  Romney raised $57 million last year, more than any of his
Republican presidential rivals, and entered the primary season
with $20 million to spend. He garnered $24 million alone from
October to December, almost twice as much as his chief
competitor, former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich , took in all of
last year, according to reports filed with the  Federal Election
Commission  this week. And he has benefited from  Wall Street 
support in that pursuit.  Hedge Funds  Romney’s benefactors include prominent executives at hedge
funds and in private equity, an investing specialty that his
candidacy has put under fresh scrutiny because its deals can
lead to lost jobs. Romney’s days as chief executive officer at
Bain Capital are drawing campaign cash from hedge funds, former
colleagues, business contacts and private-equity investors such
as Marc Rowan, the billionaire senior managing director of New
York-based Apollo Global Management LLC, federal and state
campaign records show.  Also among the donors: Tiger Management LLC founder Julian Robertson and three of his former hedge fund managers,  Lee Ainslie , John A. Griffin and Chris Shumway, who donated a
combined $2.1 million to Restore Our Future, a so-called super-
political action committee, or PAC, backing Romney’s campaign.
Hedge-fund managers  Paul Singer  of Elliott Management Corp.,
Renaissance Technologies LLC co-chief executive officer Robert Mercer and John Paulson of Paulson & Co. each gave $1 million.  ‘Safety Net’  The support comes with political risk to Romney, who has
been dogged by criticism from rivals that he’s out of touch with
average Americans. Romney said in a Feb. 1 CNN interview that he
isn’t concerned about America’s very poor because they have a
“safety net.” Yesterday he accepted the endorsement of Donald Trump, the billionaire developer and television personality.  “I think it plays into that narrative that Romney is an
elitist and he doesn’t understand the common people,” said
David Damore, who teaches politics at the University of Nevada
Las Vegas.  Wall Street remains publicly tarnished for its role in the
credit-market crash that has left the economy struggling two-
and-a-half years after the recession’s end. In  Washington , banks
and securities firms face new regulations stemming from the
Dodd-Frank banking overhaul signed by President Barack Obama in
2010. That has sent campaign cash flowing to Romney, who, like
Gingrich, says he would repeal the law.  ‘One of Them’  Restore Our Future is allowed to collect unlimited sums to
back Romney’s campaign. Its $7.7 million in spending on
broadcast television ads in  Florida  helped lift Romney to a 14-
point victory on Jan. 31, cementing his status as the front
runner for the Republican presidential nomination.  “Romney is a candidate who is one of them,” said  Anthony Corrado , a professor of government at Colby College in
Waterville, Maine, who follows campaign finance. “They see the
Obama administration as pursuing a course that is detrimental to
their interest.”  Securities and investment firms and their employees gave
more than any other industry to Restore Our Future in 2011,
providing $13.5 million of the $30.2 million raised by the
group, according to federal records and the Washington-based
Center for Responsive Politics, a nonprofit, nonpartisan
research group that tracks campaign giving. Winning Our Future,
the PAC backing Gingrich, raised just $500,000 from the
industry, the center’s data show.  Among Top Groups  Financial services companies including New York-based
 Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Blackstone Group LP (BX) 
made up eight of the top 10 employers of people who gave to
Romney’s presidential campaign, where donations are legally
limited to $2,500 per person.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  was the only
financial institution on Obama’s top-10 list.  In addition to imposing new financial regulations, Obama
wants to let Bush-era tax cuts on top-earners expire and has
suggested eliminating a provision that allows private-equity
managers to count earnings as capital gains. That lets them pay
at less than half the rate imposed on the highest incomes.  “To the extent anyone is supporting Mitt Romney over
President Obama it is because the state of the economy and the
president’s failure to create jobs,” Andrea Saul, a spokeswoman
for the Romney campaign, said in an e-mail.  Siding With Republicans  Kevin Landry, the vice chairman of Boston private-equity
firm TA Associates Inc., gave $100,000 to Restore Our Future.
Landry said he has long backed Romney, whom he admired from the
candidate’s time at Bain, and expressed concerned about Obama’s
attitude toward the wealthy and his ability to oversee the
economy.  “Democrats begin with the central thesis that if you have
wealth you stole it from someone else,” he said by telephone.
“Republicans have the bias if you have it you must have created
it. You can attack both of those biases as extreme, but I come
down on the side of the Republicans.”  Federal election reports released this week show Romney’s
broad base within the finance industry, with almost all of the
donations to Restore Our Future coming from first-time givers.
Three  Bain Capital  employees -- Domenic Ferrante, Steven Barnes
and John Connaughton -- combined gave $625,000 to the PAC.  Among repeat donors to the committee are private-equity
executives, including some with former ties to Bain & Co. Romney
worked for the Boston-based consulting firm before starting Bain
Capital, which pursued takeovers, in 1984. He was Massachusetts
governor from 2003 to 2007.  Bain Connection  Kevin Rollins , a former partner at Bain & Co., and his wife
gave the PAC $250,000. Rollins joined computer maker Dell Inc.
in 1996 and rose to chief executive officer. In 2007, he became
an adviser for TPG Capital, the Fort Worth, Texas, buyout
company whose $48 billion in investments include stakes in
casino owner Caesars Entertainment Corp. and Petco Animal
Supplies Inc.  Richard Boyce, founder of TPG Capital’s Operating Group and
also a former Bain & Co. partner, gave $200,000 to the PAC. W/F
Investment Corp., a Los Angeles private-equity firm whose
portfolio includes beer brewery Uplifters Spirits, gave
$275,000. William Fleischman, W/F Investment’s chairman and CEO,
also gave $100,000.  TPG spokeswoman Lisa Baker said Rollins and Boyce declined
to comment. A receptionist at W/F said Fleischman is declining
to comment on his donations.  Super-PACs  So-called super-PACs have raised concerns about the
potential for secrecy and anonymity in political giving. One
contribution to Restore Our Future that drew criticism was made
by Edward Conard, a former managing director at Bain Capital,
who gave $1 million while trying to shield his identity by
creating a corporation called W Spann LLC.  Conard acknowledged he was the source of the contribution
after campaign-finance watchdogs brought complaints to the
Federal Election Commission and the  Justice Department . He
didn’t respond to a request for comment on the matter.  Rowan, who started Apollo with Leon Black and Josh Harris
in 1990, has contributed to Restore Our Future four times,
giving $75,000. His wife, Carolyn, chipped in $30,000.  Rowan has been part of prominent private-equity deals,
including the takeover with TPG Capital of casino giant Harrah’s
Entertainment Inc., which is now known as  Caesars (HET)  in Las Vegas.
Apollo buys the debt of companies that have borrowed too much,
to gain control. It typically restructures them and aims to sell
its stake through initial public offerings.  ‘Complete Destruction’  “Where we look for opportunity on our new investment side
is where there has been complete destruction,” Rowan said at a
2010 Milken Institute Global Conference.  Apollo, which went public in March, owns stakes in
Norwegian Cruise Line Holdings Ltd. and retailer Claire’s Stores
Inc. The company lost about a fifth of its market value as it
wrote down its buyout holdings.  Rowan, who the Center for Responsive Politics says has
given at least $244,650 to Republicans and Democrats in the past
three election cycles, didn’t respond to a request for comment.  Romney’s candidacy has drawn scrutiny to the private-equity
industry, including the tax advantages managers enjoy and the
effect the industry’s deals sometimes have on employment.
Gingrich has questioned whether Romney’s fortune -- which
provided an income of almost $21.6 million in 2010 -- was built
at the cost of workers’ jobs. Private-equity deals can burden
firms with debt while paying management fees and dividends to
buyers, which can put financial pressure on the companies.  Sun Capital  Sun Capital, the  Boca Raton , Florida-based firm started by
Leder and his partner, Rodger Krouse, has purchased at least 15
companies that wound up in bankruptcy since 2006. In May,
Berkline/BenchCraft Holdings LLC, sought to liquidate its assets
under court protection.  In October, Friendly, a 76-year-old restaurant chain owned
by Sun, also entered bankruptcy, only to be repurchased by Sun
after shedding debt. In court papers, the Pension Benefit
Guarantee Corp. said Sun was trying to escape from unfunded
pension obligations. Sun objected to the characterization. Leder
didn’t respond to a request for an interview made through Katrin
Lieberwirth, a Sun spokeswoman.  Staton, the social-networking executive who attended the
fundraiser at Leder’s house, said Leder and Krouse’s firm
represents a great success story. During his 2009 divorce,
Leder’s wife estimated their assets at more than $400 million.
She described the couple’s “very high standard of living,”
including private jet travel and a summer home in Vermont.  Leder, Krouse and former Bain Capital managing director
Conard all supported Romney’s run for the White House before he
officially entered the race last June.  State Committees  In 2010 the three contributed $174,500 to four state
political action committees affiliated with Romney that donated
money to local candidates in the early primary states of Iowa,
 New Hampshire , Michigan and Alabama.  Leder and Krouse also each gave $125,000 to the super-PAC
supporting Romney, FEC records show.  “These are two guys that didn’t have anything a few years
ago,” said Staton. “Now they’re uber wealthy. They’ve got tens
of thousands of employees in their companies. Their companies,
for the most part, have all done well and grown. And the people
who’ve invested with them have done well.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 William Selway  in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net ;
Martin Braun in  New York  at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  