-- Prokhorov Plans $17 Billion Charity Giveaway If He Beats Putin in Election
-- B y   J a k e   R u d n i t s k y   a n d   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2012-02-03T07:46:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/prokhorov-pledges-17-billion-charity-giveaway-if-elected-russia-president.html
Mikhail Prokhorov , Russia’s third-
richest man, said he’ll give $17 billion of his $18 billion
fortune to charity if he defeats Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin 
and three other candidates to win the presidency next month.  “I’ll sell everything, all my assets when I become
president and donate almost all of the money to charity,”
Prokhorov said during a talk show with fellow candidate  Vladimir Zhirinovsky  that was  broadcast  on state-run television late.  Prokhorov, who owns the New Jersey Nets basketball team in
the U.S. and stakes in Russian metals companies  United Co. Rusal (486) 
and Polyus Gold International Ltd., said he’d need the remaining
$1 billion for personal expenses after life in the Kremlin.  “I’ll need something to live on,” Prokhorov, 46, said.  Putin, the clear favorite in polls, is seeking to garner
more than 50 percent of the vote to avoid a runoff against the
second-place finisher in his bid to return to the presidency
after four years as premier. He was elected president in 2000
and 2004 and stepped down in 2008 in favor of his protégé,
Dmitry Medvedev, to comply with constitutional  term limits .  A Jan. 28-29 poll of 3,000 likely voters showed Putin
winning 46 percent of the March 4 poll, followed by Zhirinovsky
and Communist leader  Gennady Zyuganov  at 9 percent, Prokhorov at
5 percent and former Putin ally Sergei Mironov at 3 percent, the
Moscow-based Public Opinion Foundation, known as FOM, said on
its website today, without giving a margin of error.  “My main objective is to make it to a second round,”
Prokhorov said on a campaign stop in the Siberian city of
Novosibirsk on Jan. 27, according to the state-run RIA Novosti
news service.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  