-- Putin, Opponents Gather 175,000 in Subzero Weather as Vote Nears
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2012-02-04T14:23:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/putin-s-opposition-to-demonstrate-a-month-before-russians-vote.html
Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin ’s
supporters mobilized thousands for the biggest demonstration in
Moscow in two decades as they sought to steal the spotlight from
rival protests against electoral fraud.  A pro-government rally held near a World War II memorial
park mustered 138,000 people, Moscow police said. Opponents of
the Russian leader say they gathered at least 120,000 in subzero
temperatures for a march to Bolotnaya Square, an island south of
the Kremlin, while city police put the number at 36,000,
according to a statement on their  website .  The show of force by Putin’s backers is seeking to bolster
the premier’s bid to reclaim the presidency in March elections
after his ruling party saw its two-thirds parliamentary majority
cut to just over half. Tens of thousands protested in Moscow and
across the country in December in the biggest challenge since
Putin first won the presidency in 2000 after allegations of mass
fraud in the State Duma vote.  “Putin understands we are a serious threat for him,” said
Alexei Navalny, an opposition leader and blogger. “Today they
are busing in tens of thousands of people, government employees,
from around the country for their rally.”  Temperatures were as low as negative 20 degrees Celsius
(minus 4 Fahrenheit) in Moscow. Smaller rallies were held in
cities across the country, state television reported. The
demonstrations in the capital brought 175,000 on to the streets,
according to official police estimates.  ‘Orange Plague’  From the stage, speakers at the pro-government rally called
on demonstrators not to allow mass protests to turn into
political unrest styled after Ukraine’s Orange Revolution.
Slogans included “Glory to Russia” and “Down With the Orange
Plague.”  “The people coming out on Poklonnaya Gora will earnestly
declare their anti-Orange position,” Putin said in an  interview 
with Interfax last night, referring to street protests in 2004
that eventually toppled Ukraine’s pro-Russian leadership. “I’m
grateful to them and I share their views.”  Putin announced in September his plan to retake the Kremlin
from his protege,  Dmitry Medvedev , after serving the maximum two
consecutive terms allowed by the constitution between 2000 and
2008.  The Central Electoral Commission has barred Grigory Yavlinsky, who heads the pro-democracy Yabloko party, from
challenging Putin, saying signatures gathered to support his
application were invalid. Speaking at the protest, Yavlinsky
urged supporters to “unite” to show that “morality can be a
leading force in politics.”  Paris in 1968  “Everyone is becoming political,” said Yelena Grinina,
19, a geology student at the Moscow State University attending
the opposition rally. “It’s like Paris in 1968. Something is
happening, although we don’t where it will lead. Hopefully to
something better but who knows.”  Putin, 59, is fighting to get more than 50 percent of the
vote on March 4 to avoid a runoff, which his opponents say can
only be achieved with ballot-stuffing. A second round between
the top-scoring candidates would be held three weeks after the
first round.  Oleg Zhuzhlin, a 32-year-old computer software programmer,
said he voted for the Yabloko party in the parliamentary
elections and was angry that its candidate hadn’t been allowed
to contest next month’s polls.  ‘Anybody Else’  “I would rather die of frostbite than miss the protest,”
said Zhuzhlin, who was dancing and singing along to a song by
the musician Yuri Shevchuk. “We want to shame Putin out of
office. Anybody else will do.”  The premier’s backing is close to the threshold needed for
an outright victory. His support rose to 52 percent in the
latest poll released yesterday by the state-run All-Russian
Center for the Study of  Public Opinion , or VTsIOM, from 49
percent in a survey published a week earlier.  The Russian leader polled at 46 percent, up from 44 percent
a week earlier, at the Public Opinion Foundation. He may get as
low as 37 percent of the vote, according to a Jan. 20-23 opinion
poll by the independent  Levada Center .  “I think something has changed with the political
protests, something has changed irreparably,” Masha Gordon, who
oversees about $1.2 billion in emerging-market equities at
Pacific Investment Management Co., said in an interview in
Moscow on Feb. 2. “That’s the notion that you can no longer
just have an unaccountable hold of power.”  Least Expensive  Russian equities are the least expensive of the so-called
BRIC countries, with the 30 stocks in the benchmark Micex Index
trading at 5.7 times earnings. That compares with a ratio of 16
for  India , 12.2 for  China  and 10.6 for  Brazil , data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  The Micex surged to its sixth week of gains, added 1.5
percent to 1,564.82 by the close in Moscow yesterday and taking
its weekly increase to 3.8 percent, the most since the period
ending Dec. 4. The Russian benchmark index has gained 12 percent
this year compared with a 14 percent return for the MSCI
Emerging Markets Index.  Most of Putin’s challengers in the March 4 presidential
election have called for new parliamentary polls at the end of
this year, accusing the authorities of inflating  United Russia ’s
vote on Dec. 4 from 30 percent to about 50 percent. The
government has rejected the demands, insisting the legislative
polls were fair.  Sberbank, Russian Post  Employees of state-run companies, including OAO Sberbank
and Russian Post, were ordered to attend the rally backing Putin
today, Echo Moskvy radio reported. Russian Post vehicles were
being used to carry away signs from the demonstration.  OAO Rosneft,  Russia ’s largest state-run oil producer, asked
employees to attend the pro-government rally and carry out their
“civic duty,” according to a copy of the instructions obtained
by Bloomberg, which contained a map of the site.  Rustam Kazharov, a Rosneft spokesman, wouldn’t confirm the
letter when reached by phone today.  The prime minister has accused foreign powers of financing
the protests to destabilize Russia. U.S. Secretary of State
Hillary Clinton’s criticism of the parliamentary vote emboldened
the opposition and “sent a signal” to activists, Putin said
Dec. 8.  Russia’s Investigative Committee today said that video
material on the Internet that showed alleged voter fraud had
been distributed from a server located in  California .
Investigators are “taking measures to establish the authors of
this video material and who ordered it,” the committee said in
a statement on its  website  today.  Dueling Rallies  Vladimir Zhirinovsky ’s  Liberal Democratic Party  gathered
about 1,000 people for a rally on Pushkin Square, city police
said in a statement. About 150 people have turned out so far for
another protest against election falsifications on Prospekt
Sakharova, which hosted the last mass protest, police said.  Communist leader  Gennady Zyuganov  and the LDPR’s
Zhirinovsky will each get 8 percent according to VTsIOM,
followed by billionaire  Mikhail Prokhorov  and former Putin ally
Sergei Mironov at 4 percent. The pollster interviewed 1,600
Russians from Jan. 28-29, with a margin of error of 3.4
percentage points.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  