-- THQ Falls as Analyst Says Company May Tap Credit Line: Los Angeles Mover
-- B y   R o b   G o l u m   a n d   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2012-02-03T21:09:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/thq-falls-as-analyst-says-company-may-tap-credit-line-los-angeles-mover.html
THQ Inc. (THQI) , the video-game maker that
reported a quarterly loss yesterday, tumbled 30 percent after an
analyst said the company may need to draw on a revolving line of
credit.  THQ, based in Agoura Hills,  California , declined to 53
cents at 4 p.m.  New York  time, the  lowest  close since July 1995.
The company has a $50 million revolving credit facility,
according to a Nov. 9 regulatory filing.  Todd Mitchell , an analyst with Brean Murray Carret & Co. in
New York, said the cancellation of the uDraw game tablet has
created “a liquidity crisis for the company that puts its
viability in question.” He estimated the project will end up
costing THQ $100 million, according to a note today. Mitchell
has a “hold” rating on the stock.  “We were looking at uDraw as a bridge to this core and
digital future, and that bridge turned out to be a plank we
walked off of,” Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Brian Farrell said on a conference  call  yesterday.  Farrell said uDraw’s “underperformance in the quarter had
the single biggest impact on our financial results.” THQ will
cut 240 jobs and reduce its CEO’s pay by 50 percent after
reporting a net loss of $55.9 million, or 82 cents a share, for
the fiscal third quarter.  The company reported sales of $305.4 million. Excluding
some items, profit was $24 million, or 35 cents a share, THQ
said. The video-game maker had $47.7 million in cash and
equivalents on hand when the quarter ended on Dec. 31.  ‘Leaner Cost Structure’  Farrell’s salary will drop to $359,250 from $718,500 for a
one-year period, according to a  filing  with U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission. Cash compensation for the company’s board
members also was cut by half, according to the filing.  “With our focused product plan, leaner cost structure,
cash balance and existing credit facility, we believe the
company has adequate resources to deliver on our strong
multiyear pipeline of games,” Farrell said on the call.  THQ said today it reached an agreement with Los Angeles-
based Innovative Leisure LLC to create and publish games for
digital and mobile platforms starting this year.  “Innovative Leisure has the expertise to deliver
remarkable and cutting-edge games,” Danny Bilson, a THQ
executive vice president, said in a statement.  Farrell said on the call that new home console
introductions could reinvigorate sales.  “As we approach a potential new console cycle it does
introduce an element of risk,” Farrell said. “Another way to
think about that is it does present a tremendous amount of
opportunity.”  About 44 percent of THQ’s games were made for Nintendo
Co.’s Wii console, which has seen two years of declining sales
as consumers opt for Microsoft Corp.’s Xbox 360 and Sony Corp.’s
PlayStation 3. Those consoles play games in high-definition and
offer online downloads of movies and music.  Nintendo has said it will begin selling a high-definition
Wii U console by year-end. Microsoft also may be preparing an
update to its Xbox 360 console, according to reports.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Golum in  Los Angeles  at 
 rgolum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  