-- Radcliffe Hears Dead People Talking in ‘Woman in Black’: Review
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s
-- 2012-02-04T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/radcliffe-hears-dead-people-talking-in-woman-in-black-review.html
With his sheet-white skin and lank
black hair,  Daniel Radcliffe  personifies Victorian brooding in
“The Woman in Black.”  Assisted by a complement of ghastly spooks imported from
Japanese shockers like “The Grudge,” “Woman” updates, if
barely, the genre’s cobwebby 19th-century atmosphere, screeching
music cues and sinister-looking ghost children.  Genuine scares are few in this stodgy ghost story produced
by  Hammer Films ,  England ’s long-dormant horror factory of the
1960s.  Based on Susan Hill’s 1983 novel, “Woman” stars Radcliffe
as Arthur Kipps, a London lawyer grieving over a dead wife and
struggling to connect emotionally with his four-year-old son.  Sent to a remote English village to settle the estate of a
client, Kipps is an unwelcome intrusion on the secretive life of
the jittery, superstitious community.  When kids start killing themselves -- jumping out windows,
swallowing lye, setting themselves ablaze -- the rational Kipps
deduces that his arrival at the dead client’s creepy old mansion
has some connection to the tragedies.  Wet Plot  Kipps uncovers a sad tale involving the negligent drowning
death of a child and a mother seeking revenge. Her ghost -- the
Lady in Black -- hovers above the suicides.  All of which is just enough excuse to have Radcliffe
wandering the mansion’s dark hallways, moaning staircases and
closed-off rooms for what feels like most of the film’s 95
minutes (he’s dark without ever being particularly engaging). In
the dead quiet a raven swoops by, a chair starts rocking,
mechanical toys clank to a start -- a gimmick endlessly repeated
to diminishing returns.  Still, the pint-sized spirits are suitably eerie, as is the
titular ghoul herself. Speeding toward the camera with a banshee
scream, Liz White gets off a few good jolts, but you’ll feel
embarrassed for succumbing after the second or third time.  Directed by James Watkins (“Eden Lake”), “Woman in
Black” looks gorgeous. Panoramic shots of snowy marshes and old
country homes just might have real-life tourists dog-earring
guidebook pages for the Yorkshire Dales, and Kave Quinn’s
production design creates the spookiest haunted house since
 Nicole Kidman  ambled through “The Others.”  But Jane Goldman’s screenplay, based on Hill’s novel, sinks
in marshland muck -- literally -- in a preposterously
unconvincing semi-resolution. Ciaran Hinds and Janet McTeer, as
two of the more sophisticated locals, top a sturdy supporting
cast, but no one can save this old-fashioned chiller from the
spiritualist hokum that ultimately comes calling.  “The Woman in Black,” from CBS Films, is playing across
the U.S. Rating: **1/2  ( Greg Evans  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Greg Evans at  gregeaevans@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 