-- Trade Groups Say They Have Right to Challenge Obama Labor Board Choices
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-02-03T20:03:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/trade-groups-say-they-have-right-to-challenge-obama-labor-board-choices.html
President  Barack Obama ’s appointments
to the  National Labor Relations Board  were “invalid” and
“threaten to harm” millions of employers and workers, trade
groups said in a court filing after the U.S. sought to have
their challenge dismissed.  The trade groups, including the  National Association of
Manufacturers , the National Right to Work Legal Defense and
Education Foundation and the National Federation of  Independent
Business , last year sued to block a rule mandating that
companies notify workers of their rights to form a union.  After suing, some of the trade groups also challenged
Obama’s Jan. 4 appointment of three members to the NLRB, without
Senate confirmation, during a congressional break. The U.S. has
asked a federal judge in  Washington  to reject the challenge,
arguing that the trade groups lack authority and the dispute
isn’t ready for adjudication.  “Millions of employers are faced with immediate confusion
and uncertainty as to their notice posting obligations due to
the widely publicized questions regarding the constitutional
legitimacy of the current board,” the trade groups said in
today’s filing.  The groups urged U.S. District Judge Amy Berman Jackson to
rule on the legality of the appointments to avoid “widespread
confusion” and forestall challenges to the NLRB’s authority in
multiple cases.  ‘Public Interest’  “It is plainly in the public interest to resolve the
serious questions regarding the board’s authority as soon as
possible,” according to the filing.  U.S. Senator  John Cornyn  and 38 of his Republican
colleagues said today that they would be filing a brief and join
a court challenge to Obama’s recess appointments to the NLRB and
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. The senators didn’t say
whether they would seek to enter the NLRB union-rule case.  Since the Jan. 4 appointments, the NLRB has issued
announcements and instructions to employers through its website
and in letters for implementing the rule, scheduled to take
effect April 30, trade groups said in today’s filing.  The actions, the groups allege, are “unauthorized and
unlawful” because the labor board, minus the three recess
appointees, doesn’t have a quorum to transact business.  ‘Futile and Prejudicial’  Eric Moskowitz, an NLRB lawyer, said in a Jan. 30 filing
that the trade groups shouldn’t be able to revise their
complaint to question the board’s authority to enforce the new
rule. He called the request “futile and prejudicial.”  Republican lawmakers criticized Obama’s decision to name
three NLRB members and the first head of the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau,  Richard Cordray , during the congressional
recess when the Senate was in so-called pro forma session.  The Constitution gives presidents the power to make
appointments when the Senate is in recess. Republicans won
bipartisan agreement to keep Congress in pro forma sessions
every three days through the holidays to keep Obama from filling
vacancies.  The case is National Association of Manufacturers v.
National Labor Relations Board, 11-cv-01629, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 