-- TransCanada Keystone Sent 18% of Jan. Oil to Cushing: Genscape
-- B y   A a r o n   C l a r k
-- 2012-02-03T14:18:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/transcanada-keystone-sent-18-of-jan-oil-to-cushing-genscape.html
TransCanada Corp. (TRP)  shipped 18 percent
of the oil flowing through its Keystone pipeline in January to
Cushing,  Oklahoma , according to  Genscape Inc ., an energy
information provider.  That’s an increase from December when the 591,000-barrel-a-
day pipeline sent 17 percent of shipments to the largest U.S.
storage and trading hub, according to Genscape. The pipeline
delivered 12 percent of November oil shipments to Cushing.  “Toward the end of the month, we observed a marked
increase in Keystone shipments to Cushing,” said Abudi Zein,
New York-based senior vice president for Genscape. “If the
trend continues, February will see a heavy inflow of Canadian
crude into Cushing since Spearhead is also running higher.”  The Keystone pipeline, which begins in Hardisty,  Alberta ,
can deliver oil to Cushing and Illinois terminals through
separate legs that  diverge  in Steel City,  Nebraska .  Shawn Howard, a spokesman for TransCanada in Calgary,
didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail before normal business
hours in Calgary. Last month, Terry Cunha, another company
spokesman, said the company wouldn’t provide a breakdown of
Keystone oil shipment destinations.  Oil inventories  held in Cushing, the delivery point for New
York Mercantile Exchange crude futures, climbed 1.48 million
barrels to 30.1 million in the week ended Jan. 27, the highest
level since Dec. 16, the department said.  Spearhead Deliveries  Demand to ship on Enbridge Inc.’s Spearhead pipeline from
near  Chicago  to Cushing in February jumped nearly eightfold from
the previous month. Shippers requested space for 737,500 barrels
a day on the 650-mile (1,046-kilometer) Spearhead line for
February compared with 93,300 barrels in January, Calgary-based
Enbridge said Jan. 26.  Genscape, based in Louisville,  Kentucky , uses remote
sensing technology to measure power consumed by pipeline pumping
stations. The energy used is proportional to the power required
to ship the crude, according to the company’s  website .  There is 1.64 million barrels a day of pipeline capacity
into Cushing and only 995,000 out of the hub, Martin Tallett,
founder of EnSys Energy & Systems Inc., a Lexington,
Massachusetts, consulting company, said in November.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aaron Clark  in New York at 
 aclark27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  