-- Trash-Strewn ‘Anger’ Revisits Dismal ’50s U.K.: Jeremy Gerard
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2012-02-04T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/trash-strewn-anger-revisits-dismal-50s-u-k-jeremy-gerard.html
Sam Gold’s intermittently powerful
off-Broadway revival of “ Look Back in Anger ” begins with the
houselights up and a striking image of urban hell.  We see a narrow railroad flat littered with garbage, a
stained mattress leaning precariously against a wall and a few
pathetic sticks of furniture.  Extending only a few feet in from the lip of the stage,
this is Andrew Lieberman’s squalid set in toto. With strong
support from  Mark Barton ’s bleak lighting, it renders the
claustrophobia of poverty palpable.  Jimmy Porter, who runs a candy stand (sweets stall, in
British) lives here with his doormat wife Alison and best pal,
Cliff. Jazz slices the night air and you can almost smell the
trash they heedlessly toss about.  John Osborne’s 1956 play scorched London audiences
acclimated to the better-manicured works of Terence Rattigan and
 Noel Coward . While most of the reviews were withering, the
critic Kenneth Tynan announced that he doubted he “could love
anyone who did not wish to see” the play.  Well, I could.  Jimmy is more than a figure of post-war British anomie,
deadened by the past and frozen by a future that promises little
more than Mutually Assured Destruction.  Wounded Wife  The play unfolds on consecutive Sundays, when Jimmy and
Cliff lounge about reading and mocking the smug bourgeois
sobriety of the Sunday broadsheets. That is, when Jimmy’s not
abusing Alison.  He loathes her upper-class background and her
spinelessness; when he topples a hot iron, burning her arm, he
admits that he did it on purpose as Cliff valiantly tends the
wound.  Alison rewards Jimmy with ever more fervent ardor -- even
after a miscarriage and his casual betrayal with her actress
friend Helena.  The Brits may have seen this nasty male fantasy as
revolutionary, but in the U.S. it was already a trend (Osborne’s
play bears more than passing resemblance to “A Streetcar Named
Desire”) that critics could embrace.  No Poetry  No thanks. Whatever his gifts, Osborne lacks  Tennessee
Williams ’s poetry and, more important, the generosity of spirit
that make his flawed characters indelibly human. Osborne just
gives us icons of bored fury.  Gold and his earnest cast don’t exactly make a fresh case
for “Look Back in Anger.”  As Jimmy, Matthew Rhys seems more
remorseful than angry and there’s more chemistry with Adam
Driver’s gangly Cliff than with Sarah Goldberg’s touchingly
serene Alison. Charlotte Parry totters about in red spike heels
as the transparently haughty Helena.  The director pumps up the sex, including the ambiguous
horsing around between Jimmy and Cliff. The effort makes the
play all the more implausible.  Through April 8 at the Laura Pels Theatre, 111 W. 46th St.
Information: +1-212-719-1300;
 http://www.roundabouttheatre.org/shows-events/look-back-in -
anger.aspx Rating: **  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 