-- Trash-to-Ethanol Producer Backed by Valero Sets $125 Million IPO
-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 2012-02-03T21:49:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/trash-to-ethanol-producer-backed-by-valero-sets-125-million-ipo.html
Enerkem Inc., a closely held Canadian
biofuel company backed by  Waste Management Inc. (WM)  and  Valero
Energy Corp. (VLO) , is seeking to raise $125 million through an
initial share sale in the U.S. and  Canada .  The company, based in Montreal, is seeking listings on the
Toronto Stock Exchange and the Nasdaq Global Market, according
to a filing today. It didn’t say how many shares will be offered
or at what price.  Enerkem develops refineries that convert trash into gases,
which are processed into ethanol. The fuel will help  oil
companies  meet a U.S. Environmental Protection Agency  regulation 
to blend into their gasoline products 16 billion gallons (61
billion liters) annually of so-called cellulosic biofuel by
2022.  The company estimates that its process may use as much as
140 million metric tons (154 million tons) of the 435 tons of
municipal solid waste that end up in U.S. landfills each year.  Enerkem is backed by Waste Management, the largest North
American recycler, and the independent oil refiner Valero, and
plans to sell them its technology to use in refineries in the
U.S.  The company has a pilot plant in Sherbrooke,  Quebec , and a
demonstration plant in Westbury, Quebec, with annual production
capacity of 1.3 million gallons. Its first commercial facility,
in  Edmonton , Alberta, is expected to begin production in 2013
with capacity of 10 million gallons a year.  Waste Management and another investor bought a minority
stake in the Edmonton plant in December for C$15 million ($15.1
million).  Enerkem is developing two other plants of comparable size,
in Mississippi and Quebec, according to the filing. The
Mississippi project is supported by an $80 million loan
guarantee offered by the U.S. Agriculture Department in January
2011.  Replacing Petroleum  Its technology can also convert waste into specialty
chemicals to replace petroleum derivatives in the production of
hygiene products, paints, plastics and other goods, according to
the filing.  The company’s other investors include Rho Ventures LLC and
Braemar Energy Ventures. A group of investment banks led by
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Credit Suisse AG and BMO Capital
Markets Corp. are handling the offering.  Enerkem will trade under the ticker NRKM on Nasdaq and NKM
in Toronto.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  