-- RBS Sought Scapegoats for Libor Manipulation It Condoned, Ex-Trader Says
-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 2012-02-03T04:04:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/rbs-sought-scapegoats-for-libor-manipulation-it-condoned-ex-trader-says.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc ,
which accused a fired Singapore trader of manipulating  London 
interbank offered rates, had condoned such behavior and sought
scapegoats in an internal probe, the former employee said.  RBS’s employees “were not at any time forbidden from
communicating input or requests” to have the bank’s rate
setters set rates at levels to maximize profits, Tan Chi Min,
the former trader, said in court papers filed in Singapore’s
High Court yesterday.  “Such requests and input were regularly made or given in
order to maximize profit,” Tan said. RBS “was fully aware of
this, condoned such conduct and waived any right to terminate
employees on the basis of this.”  Patricia Choo, a Singapore-based RBS spokeswoman, declined
to immediately comment on Tan’s claims.  Tan, the former head of delta trading for RBS’s global
banking and markets division in  Singapore , sued the bank in
December over his dismissal and is seeking to recoup $1.5
million in bonuses and 3.3 million RBS shares that he claims
he’s owed. RBS said Tan deserved to be fired because he was
guilty of “gross misconduct,” according to its court filing
last month.  Tan in his filing yesterday said RBS, Britain’s biggest
government-owned lender, started an internal probe after
inquiries by European and U.S. authorities on the conduct of
banks in setting Libor.  U.S., Europe Investigations  RBS, based in Edinburgh, is cooperating with investigations
by the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission,  U.S.
Department of Justice  and European Commission into whether
Libor, which acts as a benchmark for about $360 trillion of
financial instruments worldwide, had been manipulated.  The bank’s “internal investigations were intended to
create the impression that such conduct was the conduct not of
the defendant itself but the conduct of specific employees who
the defendant has sought to make scapegoats through summary
dismissals,” Tan said.  Tan tried to improperly influence  RBS’s (RBS)  rate setters from
2007 to 2011 and persuade them to submit Libor rates at
particular levels to his benefit, the bank said in its defense
last month.  Tan said in his complaint dated Dec. 27 that he was in no
position to influence the rate on his own. The bank failed to
detail the allegations against him and didn’t specify how he had
improperly influenced the setting of Libor, he said.  ‘Common Practice’  The fired trader said it was “common practice” among
RBS’s senior employees to make requests to the bank as to the
appropriate Libor rate, according to his complaint.  Libor is derived from a survey of banks conducted each day
on behalf of the British Bankers’ Association in London. The
lenders are asked how much it would cost them to borrow from
each other for 15 different periods, from overnight to one year,
in currencies including dollars, euros, yen and Swiss francs.
After a predetermined number of quotes are excluded, those
remaining are averaged and published for each currency by the
BBA before noon.  The delta trading desks at investment banks handle trades
for clients, typically helping them to speculate on, or hedge
the performance of, a basket of securities.  The case is Tan Chi Min v The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc
S939/2011 in the Singapore  High Court .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  