-- Treasuries Head for Second Weekly Gain Before U.S. Employment Report Today
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-02-03T12:25:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/treasuries-head-for-second-straight-weekly-gain-as-fed-pledge-drives-yield.html
Treasuries headed for a second weekly
gain on speculation a U.S. employment report today will bolster
the  Federal Reserve ’s view that the economy requires support
from record-low interest rates even as it adds jobs.  U.S. government debt  returned 0.3 percent this year,
compared with a loss of 0.2 percent from German bonds, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch indexes show. Yields tumbled this week,
sending five-year rates to a record low, after the Fed said on
Jan. 25 it will keep the benchmark  interest rate  near zero until
at least late 2014. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the central
bank is considering buying bonds to sustain the expansion, a
strategy known as quantitative easing.  “Recent data out of the U.S. showed the economy has
improved, but not at a pace that would make us comfortable to
back down from our call that the Fed will do a third round of
quantitative easing,” said  Richard McGuire , a senior fixed-
income strategist at Rabobank International in London. “The Fed
is likely to do more rather than less to make sure the momentum
continues. That should be supportive for Treasuries.”  U.S. 10-year  yields  were little changed at 1.82 percent at
7:22 a.m. in  New York , according to Bloomberg Bond Trader
prices. The 2 percent note maturing in November 2021 traded at
101 19/32. The yield dropped seven basis points, or 0.07
percentage point, this week.  Five-year notes yielded 0.71 percent after falling to a
record 0.6981 percent on Jan. 31.  Extra Jobs  U.S. employers added 140,000 workers in January, after
hiring 200,000 in December, according to a Bloomberg News survey
before the Labor Department report today. The unemployment  rate 
will hold at 8.5 percent, a separate survey showed.  “The rally in Treasuries can keep going for the coming
months,” said Hiromasa Nakamura, a senior investor in  Tokyo  at
Mizuho Asset Management Co., which oversees the equivalent of
$43.2 billion. “U.S. employment conditions are fragile.
Inflation will be kept at bay.”  The 10-year yield will fall to 1.5 percent by June 30, said
Nakamura, who predicted last year’s Treasuries rally.  A gauge of whether U.S. economic reports have been beating
or falling short of forecasts fell to the lowest since November
yesterday. The Citigroup Economic  Surprise Index (CESIUSD)  dropped to 49.5
from as high as 91.9 on Jan. 6. A positive reading suggests
economic releases have beaten consensus.  Treasuries were underpinned after Fed Bank of Chicago
President  Charles Evans  told reporters yesterday the central
bank needs a clear, low-rate commitment or a third round of
purchases of Treasuries and mortgage bonds to further stimulate
a still struggling economy.  Inflation Goal  The central bank has already purchased $2.3 trillion of
Treasury and mortgage-related bonds in two rounds of easing that
ended in June. Bernanke yesterday told lawmakers the Fed
wouldn’t sacrifice its inflation goal to boost employment.  Improvement in the economy has yet to increase inflation
expectations. The  difference  between yields on 10-year notes and
Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of expectations
for consumer prices over the life of the debt, was 2.15
percentage points, down from as high as 2.67 percentage points
in April.  Inflation will be in check in 2012 and may quicken after
that, according to BlackRock Inc., the world’s biggest money
manager.  “The Fed wants to err on the side of creating a bit more
inflation,” said Rick Rieder, chief investment officer for
fundamental fixed-income portfolios at BlackRock, which manages
$3.51 trillion. “I don’t think it’s a 2012 event. As you get
into 2013, 2014, you could see more.”  More Easing  The Fed is open to doing more quantitative easing, Rieder
said, speaking yesterday in an interview from  London . BlackRock
added to its holdings of TIPS due in 10 years and longer a few
weeks ago, he said.  The central bank is in the process of  replacing  $400
billion of shorter-maturity Treasuries in its holdings with
longer-term debt to cap borrowing costs, under a program it
plans to conclude in June.  The Fed is scheduled to sell as much as $8.75 billion of
securities due from May to November of this year today as part
of the exchange, according to the New York Fed’s  website .  The U.S. is due to sell $72 billion of coupon-bearing
securities including 30-year bonds next week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net ;
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  