-- Treasury 10-Year Yield Rises Most Since November as Jobs Exceed Forecast
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2012-02-03T22:12:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/treasury-10-year-yield-rises-most-in-six-weeks-as-jobs-exceed-forecast.html
Treasuries fell, pushing 10-year note
 yields  up the most in almost three months, as the economy added
more jobs in January than forecast, casting doubt on the  Federal
Reserve ’s pledge to keep  interest rates  low through 2014.  Yields on 30-year bonds  rose  to the highest in a week as an
unexpected drop in the unemployment rate eased concern  Europe ’s
debt crisis is stalling the U.S. recovery. The difference
between yields on 10-year notes and the inflation-indexed
securities of the same maturity was the widest since October.
The U.S. will auction $72 billion in notes and bonds next week.  “The bond bulls are shaking in their boots,” said  George Goncalves , head of interest rate strategy in New York at Nomura
Holdings Inc., one of 21 primary dealers that trade directly
with the central bank. “The rates market is not just driven by
the Fed. It’s driven by the path of the economy. Investors won’t
take these low rates for longer if the economic numbers continue
to post as well as they have. Investors get fearful of
inflation.”  Yields on benchmark 10-year notes rose 10 basis points, or
0.10 percentage point, to 1.92 percent at 4:59 p.m. in  New York ,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 2 percent
securities maturing in November 2021 fell 29/32, or $9.06 per
$1,000 face amount, to 100 22/32. The yield climbed as much as
13 basis points, the most since Nov. 10. The yield has added
three basis points this week.  A drop of more than three points in 30-year bonds pushed
yields up as much as 16 basis points to 3.16 percent, the
 highest level  since Jan. 25.  Inflation Measure  The difference between rates on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, or TIPS, climbed to as much as
2.19 percentage points, the widest since Oct. 28. The so-called
break-even rate, which reflects the outlook among traders for
consumer prices, averaged 2.03 percentage points during the past
five years.  A Fed  measure  of perceived risk associated with extending
debt maturities, the so-called term premium, rose to 0.71
percent, after tumbling yesterday to negative 0.79 percent, the
most expensive level ever. A negative reading represents
overvalued levels and indicates investors are demanding premiums
below what’s considered fair value.  U.S. debt securities fell after the Labor Department said
employers added 243,000 jobs in January after an increase of
203,000 positions in the previous month. The median forecast of
89 economists in a Bloomberg News survey was for an increase of
140,000 jobs. The jobless rate fell to 8.3 percent, the lowest
level in three years.  Fed View  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last week after a two-day
policy meeting that the central bank is considering additional
asset purchases to boost growth after extending its pledge to
keep interest rates low through at least late 2014.  Pacific Investment Management Co.’s  Bill Gross  said the Fed
will maintain accommodative monetary policy and consider more
asset purchases even with the U.S. employment market expanding.  “This is really an extraordinary report,” said Gross, who
manages the $250 billion Total Return Fund in  Newport Beach ,
 California . “We’d caution as always that there are many
structural headwinds ahead in terms our economic future. But for
the moment we are heading up in terms of many of these growth
metrics.”  Bernanke said yesterday in congressional testimony that the
central bank will seek to keep prices rising at a 2 percent rate
and rejected suggestions that it would sacrifice its inflation
goal to boost employment. The  Federal Open Market Committee  in
statement of its long-run goals and strategies on Jan. 25
specified a 2 percent goal for inflation, as measured by the
annual change in the  price index  for personal consumption
expenditures.  Trading Range  Since Nov. 1, the yield on the 10-year note has been in a
range of 1.79 percent to 2.16 percent even as the  unemployment
rate  has decreased from 9.1 percent in August. It dropped to a
record low of 1.67 percent on Sept. 23.  Hedge-fund managers and other large speculators decreased
their net-short position in 10-year note futures in the week
ending Jan. 31, according to U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission data.  Speculative short positions, or bets prices will fall,
outnumbered long positions by 29,583 contracts on the Chicago
Board of Trade. Net-short positions fell by 14,294 contracts, or
33 percent, from a week earlier, the Washington-based commission
said in its Commitments of Traders report.  Volatility in the Treasury market is near an eight-month
low. Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s  MOVE index , which measures
price swings based on options, closed yesterday at 70.2, the
lowest since July 2007 and less than the five-year average of
111.8.  ‘Solid Report’  Gains in employment in January were broad-based, including
manufacturing, construction, temporary help agencies, accounting
firms, restaurants and retailers, the report showed.  “It’s a solid report all around,” said  Tom Porcelli ,
chief U.S. economist in New York at Royal Bank of Canada’s  RBC
Capital Markets , a primary dealer. “In some ways it removes
some of the negative sentiment that had been building toward the
economic backdrop. It’s certainly encouraging.”  Treasuries were underpinned yesterday after Chicago Fed
President  Charles Evans  told reporters the central bank needs a
clear, low-rate commitment or a third round of purchases of
Treasuries and mortgage bonds to further stimulate the economy.  The central bank purchased $2.3 trillion of Treasury and
mortgage-related bonds in two rounds of quantitative easing that
ended in June.  The Fed is in the process of replacing $400 billion of
shorter-maturity Treasuries in its holdings with longer-term
debt to cap borrowing costs. The central bank sold $8.61 billion
of securities due from May to November today as part of the
program, according to the New York Fed’s  website .  The U.S. government will offer $32 billion in three-year
notes, $24 billion in 10-year debt and $16 billion in bonds on
three consecutive days beginning Feb. 7. The sizes are the same
sold in each refunding month since November 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  