-- Republicans Join Trade Groups in Faulting U.S. Tar-Sands Plan
-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2012-02-03T22:58:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/republicans-join-trade-groups-in-faulting-u-s-tar-sands-plan.html
Republicans in Congress joined
business and industry groups in criticizing an Obama
administration proposal they said will limit oil-shale and tar-
sands development in three U.S. western states.  The U.S. Interior Department is planning a fresh study on
the impact of oil production on the environment before letting
companies start commercial-scale operations on federal land in
Colorado,  Utah  and Wyoming, according to a statement today. The
agency is seeking comment on its proposal.  “The Obama administration has a plan to lock-up U.S.
energy resources and send jobs overseas,” Representative Doc Hastings, a Washington Republican and chairman of House Natural
Resources Committee, said today in a statement. “Republicans
have a plan to expand access to American energy resources, grow
our economy, and put people back to work.”  Hastings committee this week approved a bill directing
Interior to hold at least five oil-shale lease sales by the end
of 2015. President  Barack Obama ’s administration and Democrats,
who opposed Hastings’ bill, said research is needed to determine
whether oil-shale production has any impact on groundwater and
surface-water systems.  “Fully understanding the demands of oil-shale development
on  Colorado ’s water and local communities is essential to
ensuring responsible development,” Senator Mark Udall, a
Colorado Democrat, said today in a statement on his website,
praising the department’s decision.  Groups including the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the nation’s
largest business lobbying group, and the Washington-based
 American Petroleum Institute , said the proposal will trim
development on public lands.  ‘Saying ‘No’’  “The administration is again saying ‘no’ to more energy
production and ‘no’ to more jobs,” Karen Harbert, who heads the
energy unit of the Washington-based Chamber of Commerce, said in
an e-mailed statement. “This proposal will dramatically
decrease the amount of public lands available for energy
development.”  The Green River formation in Colorado, Utah and  Wyoming  is
the world’s largest oil-shale deposit, according to the
department’s statement.  Oil-shale deposits are fine-grained, sedimentary rocks that
hold solid bituminous materials called kerogen, and are
different from shale oil, according to the agency’s statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  