-- Threshold Jumps on Merck KGaA Cancer-Drug Partnership: San Francisco Mover
-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y   a n d   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2012-02-03T21:17:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/threshold-jumps-on-merck-kgaa-cancer-drug-partnership-san-francisco-mover.html
Threshold Pharmaceuticals Inc. (THLD)  surged
the most ever after German drugmaker  Merck KGaA (MRK)  agreed to pay as
much as $525 million for the right to jointly develop and sell a
drug for cancer.  Threshold more than doubled to $2.99, the biggest single-
day jump for the  Redwood City , California-based company since
the shares started trading publicly in February 2005, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The stock is up 70 percent in the
last 12 months.  Merck will pay $25 million upfront for some rights to
TH-302, an experimental medicine being tested in soft-tissue
sarcoma and pancreatic cancer, the companies said today in a
statement. Threshold is eligible for an additional $35 million
this year if development goals are met, and total potential
payments are $525 million, the companies said.  “The deal has several favorable aspects,”  Eric Schmidt ,
an analyst with Cowen & Co. in New York, wrote in a research
note today. “It provides relief from a near-term financing
overhang, validation of TH-302’s potential from an external
party, the financial resources ability to expand TH-302’s
development beyond pancreatic cancer and sarcoma, and Threshold
with the ability to retain much of its strategic value by virtue
of its U.S. co-promote option.”  Threshold expects to receive data from a mid-stage trial
for advanced pancreatic cancer this month. As part of the deal,
Darmstadt, Germany-based Merck will pay Threshold $20 million
for positive results in that trial. The drug is also in a late-
stage clinical trial for patients with soft-tissue sarcoma, and
Threshold is studying it in other cancers.  Merck will receive co-development rights and exclusive
worldwide marketing rights to the medicine, and Threshold will
have the option to market the treatment in the U.S.  Threshold will develop TH-302 in the U.S. for soft-tissue
sarcoma. The two companies will jointly develop the therapy for
all other indications, and Merck will pay 70 percent of
worldwide development costs, the companies said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Connolly in Frankfurt at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net ;
Meg Tirrell in  New York  at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  