-- Retirement Plans, Milan Probe, EU Cartel Fines: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-02-03T12:57:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/retirement-plans-milan-probe-eu-cartel-fines-compliance.html
The U.S. Treasury Department will
help expand the availability of annuities and lifetime income
choices in retirement plans, the agency said.  The department yesterday proposed two regulations to make
it easier for those approaching retirement to buy an annuity
through their company-funded pensions or 401(k) savings
accounts.  U.S. savers held about  $2.9 trillion  in 401(k) accounts and
a total $17 trillion in retirement savings as of Sept. 30,
according to the Investment Company Institute, a Washington-
based trade group for the mutual-fund industry.  Regulators and legislators have been looking at Americans’
retirement security because life expectancies are increasing and
savings have shifted from traditional pension plans to defined-
contribution plans such as 401(k)s. Participants in 401(k)-type
plans increased to 67 million in 2007 from about 11 million in
1975, the Labor Department said at a hearing on lifetime income
in September 2010.  Employers have been reluctant to adopt annuities in
retirement plans they sponsor because of concern that fees are
too high and that they would be held liable for their choice of
insurers. Americans have resisted buying the insurance because
they don’t want to lock up their assets.  The Treasury Department’s proposed regulation will make it
simpler for traditional pension plans to let workers take part
of their balances as lifetime income streams and take the rest
as lump sums.  The other proposed rule would encourage 401(k) and IRA
plans to offer participants the option of dedicating part of
their savings to a so-called longevity annuity, which may not
begin the guaranteed income payouts until age 80 or 85, the
Treasury Department said. The agency said it would grant an
exception to required minimum distributions from retirement
accounts in certain cases.  Asset managers and insurers including  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) ,  State
Street Corp. (STT) ,  Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU) ,  MetLife Inc. (MET)  and  ING
Groep NV (INGA)  have been developing ways to add annuities and lifetime
income to 401(k) investment choices.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  Europe Zero-Risk Capital Rule Should Be Ended, Lobby Group Says  The  European Union  should close a loophole in bank capital
rules that rates sovereign debt as risk-free and allows lenders
to escape holding reserves against possible losses, the  Finance
Watch  lobby group said.  There are no “risk-free assets” and therefore the
“existence of zero-risk weights is fundamentally flawed and
misleading,” the group said in the published research.  Losses on European sovereign debt have grown since the
onset of the Euro area financial crisis that may threaten the
survival of the euro.  “Risk weights penalize non-rated exposures,” including
some corporate and retail investments that have a 100 percent
risk-weight attributed to them, Finance Watch said.  Geithner Says Systemically Risky Firms to Be Named This Year  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said the first
nonbank financial companies deemed systemically risky will be
named this year, and the department will release more plans for
an overhaul of housing finance.  Geithner said the plan is to wind down government sponsored
enterprises, or GSEs, and reduce the government’s direct role in
the housing market. The comments were part of prepared remarks
by Geithner in Washington yesterday.  The secretary’s comments came as he praised the progress on
the 2010 Dodd-Frank act and said regulators are “making
considerable progress in implementing reform.” The law has come
under attack from Republicans and presidential candidates.  CFTC, SEC Release Report on Global Regulations of Swaps Market  The Commodity Futures Trading Commission and the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission issued a joint  Report to
Congress  on Jan. 31.  The report, which analyzes efforts to coordinate global
regulations on the $708 trillion swaps market is required by the
Dodd-Frank law.  The report will be “a useful guide to OTC derivatives
regulation and markets inside and outside the United States, and
a timely comparative tool in the ongoing effort to achieve
consistency in regulation,” the commissions said in the report.  The 153-page study discusses the process used by the
commissions in creating it, the regulatory framework for OTC
derivatives in the Americas, European Union and Asia, and the
commissions’ analysis of regulatory schemes among the
jurisdictions, as well as recommendations “for next steps.”  The report includes appendices summarizing approaches in
studied jurisdictions and listing international policy
initiatives for OTC derivatives regulation.  Compliance Action  Banks’ U.K. Finance Regulation Fees to Rise on Reform Costs  The U.K. finance regulator, while pushing to limit pay and
bonuses for London bankers, said it needs more money from firms
it regulates to cover spending on information technology and
implementing government reforms.  The Financial Services Authority’s annual spending for the
year starting on April 1 will rise 15.6 percent to 578.4 million
pounds ($913.9 million), which will be borne mostly by larger
financial firms, the regulator said yesterday. Fees for medium-
sized firms will rise proportionately depending on their
business, and fees for the smallest firms will stay at a minimum
of 1,000 pounds.  The funding requirements may be the regulator’s last before
a government-imposed split into the Prudential Regulation
Authority, which will become a unit of the Bank of England, and
the independent Financial Conduct Authority, in 2013.  Barclays, UniCredit Bankers Should Face Trial, Prosecutor Says  Former  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  Chief Executive Officer  Alessandro
Profumo  is among 20 UniCredit and  Barclays Plc (BARC)  executives facing
fraud charges in a tax-evasion probe led by a Milan prosecutor,
according to court documents.  Prosecutor Alfredo Robledo asked a court in the city to put
the 20 individuals on trial for fraudulent representation in
relation to an international investment plan known as Brontos,
he said in a court filing yesterday. A judge will rule on the
prosecutor’s request at a later date.  UniCredit, Italy’s largest bank, used the tax vehicle to
increase the bank’s “economic benefits,” Profumo said at the
company’s annual meeting in April 2010. Prosecutors have been
investigating Brontos since last year when they seized 246
million euros ($321 million) in bank assets.  Profumo, 54, said in a statement yesterday that he welcomes
the chance to be heard in court and he is convinced he acted
correctly. He stepped down as UniCredit CEO in September 2010.  A spokesman for UniCredit declined to comment, as did a
spokesman for Barclays in London.  Japan’s FSA Told Tokyo Exchange to Find Glitch Cause, Jimi Says  Japan’s Financial Services Agency ordered Tokyo Stock
Exchange Chief Executive Officer Atsushi Saito to investigate
the cause of yesterday’s trading glitch, Financial Services
Minister  Shozaburo Jimi  said.  Jimi was speaking at a news conference in Tokyo today,
referring to events at the Tokyo Exchange. Japan’s alternative
trading platforms missed out on a potential payday yesterday as
regulators stopped them from fielding orders when a computer
error caused the biggest trading disruption in six years at the
Tokyo Stock  Exchange.  The glitch at TSE disabled trading of 241 companies
including Sony Corp. for 2 1/2 hours. The malfunction in a
server and its backups was Tokyo’s worst since 2006, a year
before alternative venues started in Japan. The disruption came
as the Fair Trade Commission reviews the effect on competition
of a planned merger between the exchanges in Tokyo and Osaka,
where transactions went on as normal.  UBS Unauthorized Trading Prompts Swiss, U.K. Enforcement Actions  U.K. and Swiss finance regulators have begun formal
enforcement actions against  UBS AG (UBSN)  over a $2.3 billion trading
loss allegedly caused by Kweku Adoboli, a former trader at its
investment bank.  The U.K. Financial Services Authority and the Swiss
Financial Market Supervisory Authority, known as Finma, are
investigating the risk controls at UBS’s investment bank that
didn’t prevent the unauthorized trades, the agencies said in
statements today. The regulators hired the accounting firm  KPMG 
in September to handle an independent investigation into events
surrounding the losses.  The move to a formal enforcement proceeding typically
indicates the regulators have found sufficient evidence of
financial rule violations. UBS said the regulators told them of
their decision and they are cooperating.  “Immediately after the unauthorized trading incident, the
Group Executive Board thoroughly investigated the incident and
implemented measures to better protect our firm from
unauthorized activities,” UBS spokeswoman Jenna Ward said in an
e-mailed statement.  Adoboli, 31, charged with fraud and false accounting,
pleaded not guilty on Jan. 30 to fraud and false accounting in
connection with the trading loss. He has been in custody since
Sept. 15. Adoboli’s request for bail was denied, prosecutor
David Williams said after a court hearing today.  UBS, Credit Suisse Among Banks in Swiss Libor-Fixing Probe  UBS AG and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  are among 12 banks facing
a Swiss inquest into possible manipulation of the London
interbank offered rate, the latest probe into how the benchmark
for $350 trillion of financial products is set.  “Collusion between derivative traders might have
influenced” Libor and its Japanese equivalent, Tibor, the Swiss
competition watchdog, Comco, said in an e-mailed statement
today. “Market conditions regarding derivative products based
on these reference rates might have been manipulated too.”  Comco said it opened the investigation after receiving an
application for its “leniency program,” which indicated that
traders from various banks might have influenced the rate. Libor
is set daily by the  British Bankers’ Association  based on data
from banks, which report how much it would cost them to borrow
from each other for various periods of time. Regulators in the
U.S., U.K. and European Union have been examining how Libor is
set, while Japan’s securities watchdog has probed Tibor.  “We are taking these investigations very seriously and are
fully cooperating with the authorities,” said Yves Kaufmann, a
spokesman for UBS in Zurich. UBS, the biggest Swiss bank, said
in July that it was granted conditional immunity from some
agencies, including the U.S. Justice Department.  A spokesman for Credit Suisse said the bank is “not in the
position” to comment at the moment.  For more, click here.  Courts  Dow, DuPont, Denki Lose EU Appeal to Cut Rubber Cartel Fines  DuPont Co. (DD) ,  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW) , and  Denki Kagaku Kogyo KK (4061) 
lost bids to overturn antitrust fines by the European Union for
claims they colluded to fix prices in the rubber chemical
industry.  The  European Commission  was right in the findings and fines
it imposed for the cartel, the EU’s General Court said in three
separate rulings for the companies. The EU’s antitrust regulator
has “wide discretion as regards the methods of calculating
fines” and didn’t err in the amounts or the fines themselves,
the Luxembourg-based tribunal said yesterday.  Five companies were fined a total of 247.6 million euros
($325 million) in 2007 by the commission, the European Union’s
antitrust regulator, for colluding on prices for chloroprene
rubber, used to make latex rubber, from at least 1993 to 2002,
the commission said.  Bayer AG (BAYN) , Germany’s largest drugmaker and another repeat
offender, escaped a 201 million euro fine, as it had told the
regulator about the cartel. An appeal by  Eni SpA (ENI) , which received
the heaviest fine, is pending.  “DuPont is disappointed with the decision” and is
considering whether to appeal, Eduardo Menchaca, a spokesman for
the company, said yesterday. Dow will appeal the ruling “as we
continue to remain convinced of the correctness of our
position,” the company said in an e-mailed statement. Naoshi
Fukawa, a spokesman for Denki Kagaku in Tokyo, said the company
can’t comment until it has read the ruling.  The cases are T-76/08 Pending Case, E.I. du Pont de Nemours
and others v Commission; T-77/08 Pending Case, Dow Chemical v
Commission; T-83/08 Pending Case, Denki Kagaku Kogyo and Denka
Chemicals v Commission.  MF Global U.K. to Start Returning Funds as Soon as Next Week  MF Global Holding Ltd.’s (MF)  U.K. administrators said they
planned to start returning money to the failed broker’s clients
as early as next week.  The interim distribution would be made “only to agreed
claims” from customers with protected accounts, Martin Pascoe,
a lawyer for the administrators, said at a London court hearing
today.  KPMG LLP, which was appointed to wind up the broker’s U.K.
unit, yesterday said it was planning to make its first payment
to clients who had money locked in customer accounts. The
interim distribution will return 26 cents for every dollar
claimed.  The U.S. brokerage case is Securities Investor Protection
Corp. v. MF Global Inc., 11-02790, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of  New York  (Manhattan). The parent’s bankruptcy case
is MF Global Holdings Ltd., 11-bk-15059,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court ,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, see Interviews, below.  Interviews/Speeches  Pitt Sees Criminal Charges After MF Global Inquiry  Former Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman Harvey
Pitt talked about MF Global Holding Ltd. and the need for
commodities investors to be protected by a SIPC-like agency. The
 Securities Investor Protection Corp.  is a nonprofit membership
corporation, funded by its members.  Pitt, chief executive officer of  Kalorama Partners LLC ,
spoke on Bloomberg Television’s “InBusiness With Margaret
Brennan.”  For the video, click here.  Bafin’s Koenig Doesn’t Expect Basel III to Cut German Lending  Elke Koenig, president of German financial regulator Bafin,
said she doesn’t expect Basel III capital rules or the European
Banking Authority’s initiatives to reduce lending by German
banks. Koenig made the remarks to reporters in Frankfurt
yesterday.  Germany’s banks are set to reach the European Banking
Authority’s capital requirements on their “own strength,”,
according to Koenig.  The EBA’s new capital rules require euro-area banks to
achieve a 9 percent core Tier 1 capital ratio by the middle of
this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 