-- Rick’s Imports Strippers for Indianapolis
-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e   a n d   T i m   J o n e s
-- 2012-02-03T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/rick-s-imports-strippers-as-indianapolis-readies-for-super-bowl-revelers.html
Indianapolis (8383MF)  is girding for a Super
Bowl party that is challenging its small-town virtues. The
strippers are already at work.  Rick’s Cabaret International Inc. (RICK)  flew in more than 100
dancers to its Indianapolis club for “seven days of nonstop
party action” from its Miami, New York,  Minneapolis  and Texas
venues, Allan Priaulx, a spokesman, said in a telephone
interview from New York.  “We wouldn’t bring them down there if they weren’t going
to make money for us, and they wouldn’t go unless they were
going to make money for themselves,” said Priaulx, whose firm’s
shares rose 18 percent in the year ending Jan. 31, compared with
2 percent for the  Standard & Poor’s  500  index .  National Football League owners voted four years ago to
hold the 2012 Super Bowl in Indianapolis, the  state  capital and
a center for amateur sports. The city has said the economic
impact of the game between the  New York  Giants and the New
England Patriots and days of high-rolling parties may be $250
million. It prepared with measures that include as much as $4
million in public-safety spending, a human trafficking law and
what boosters say is the nation’s longest temporary zipline.  “Hosting the Super Bowl, doing it well, is putting us in
front of corporate decision-makers, convention planners, event
planners that can have an impact on the city for a long time to
come,” Marc Lotter, communications director for Indianapolis
Mayor Greg Ballard, said in a telephone interview.  Have Some Pork  Indianapolis, only the fourth cold-weather city to host the
Super Bowl since it began in 1967, is not endowed with the
attributes often associated with the year’s biggest game -- none
of Miami’s beaches or rum cocktails in the sun, no Dallas Cowboy
cheerleaders. This is pork tenderloin country,  Indiana ’s
signature sandwich.  It’s also home of the Indianapolis 500 car race; the
headquarters of the  National Collegiate Athletic Association  and
 Eli Lilly & Co. , which is the world’s 10th-largest
pharmaceutical company, and hometown of author Kurt Vonnegut,
whose memorial library is near the Capitol.  Indianapolis nurtures the belief that “a good small town
works,” said James H. Madison, a historian at  Indiana
University  in Bloomington, who wrote “The Indiana Way,” a
history of the state.  Thriving on Placidity  Yet it grows as Midwestern peers shrink. Indianapolis is
now the 12th-largest U.S. city, with a population of 829,718,
according to the Census Bureau, almost doubling since 1950.  “It’s not a dramatic place; there is no ocean, the
architecture is predictable 20th century,” said Andrew Cayton,
a historian at Miami University of  Ohio  and co-author of “The
American Midwest: An Interpretive Encyclopedia.”  “It’s a good city that functions well, although you might
not go out of your way to go there,” he said.  This week, 150,000 people will make that pilgrimage, Lotter
said.  Some are staying at  Marriott International Inc. (MAR) ’s new 34-
story hotel, where the NFL set up its media center and which the
company  has said  is its largest, with 1,005 guest rooms. It is
part of a $450 million complex of Marriott properties connected
by skyways to the city’s convention center and opened in
February 2011.  Indianapolis spent $12 million to turn a four-lane street
into a three-block pedestrian plaza that is home to a Super Bowl
Village for 10 days and can be used for future events, said
Lotter, the mayoral spokesman.  Zipping Over Indy  The village features stands with $5 hot dogs and $4 soft
drinks and stages for free entertainment from the likes of
singer Patti Labelle and the Indianapolis Colts cheerleaders.
Mikado Japanese Restaurant & Sushi in the village’s heart is
serving $6 beers and hot sake.  There’s also the 80-foot-tall zipline over Capitol Avenue.  The  Indianapolis Super Bowl Host Committee  raised $25
million to pay for the attractions from 103 individuals and
corporations including  Cummins Inc. (CMI) ,  Eli Lilly  and State Farm
Insurance Co., said Dianna Boyce, a spokeswoman.  The Capital Improvement Board of Managers of  Marion County (69790MF) ,
which operates the $720 million Lucas Oil Stadium, where the
game will be played at 6:30 p.m. local time on Feb. 5, expects
to lose $810,000 that will be covered by cash reserves, Dan
Huge, chief financial officer of the agency, said in a telephone
interview.  Vice Isn’t Nice  The largest expense is as much as $4 million the board has
agreed to pay the city to cover public-safety costs, Huge said.  Frank Straub, the Indianapolis director of public safety,
said about between $1 million and $1.5 million of that cost is
for equipment including a $250,000 armored vehicle, street
cameras and bomb suits. The balance is for overtime costs,
Straub said in an interview.  On Jan. 30, Republican Governor  Mitch Daniels  signed a bill
that Attorney General Greg Zoeller said in a statement he wanted
passed before the  Super Bowl  to “close loopholes in Indiana law
so our police and prosecutors have the legal tools they need to
crack down on those who traffic young victims.”  The city hasn’t seen an increase in human trafficking or
prostitution related to the game, and additional officers have
not been assigned to police it, Straub said.  While an increase in escort services and “professional-
type prostitution” is possible with the game, police have good
relationships with hotel and bar security to watch for
suspicious activity, Straub said.  “Our prostitution tends to be in our more crime-challenged
areas,” he said. “So somebody coming in to visit the city
probably is not going to end up there unless they got lost.”  Madison, the historian, said, “It’s almost a little
embarrassing how much the city wants to be loved by the rest of
the country and the world.  ‘‘Maybe there’s an inferiority complex, but I like to quote
Kurt Vonnegut, who said you should never apologize for being a
 Hoosier ,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Niquette in Indianapolis at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net ;
Timothy Jones in Chicago at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  