-- Rise in Jobs May Boost Obama Message on Recovering U.S. Economy
-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g   a n d   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2012-02-03T18:27:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/rise-in-jobs-may-boost-obama-message-on-recovering-u-s-economy.html
A surge in new jobs last month
improves President  Barack Obama ’s position on the overriding
concern of voters this year, even as slower progress in other
economic measures still drags on his re-election chances.  “Unemployment is still high, but with the job creation
numbers being well in excess of what’s expected, this is an
unabashed victory for the president and ratifies” his policies,
said Doug Schoen, a Democratic strategist who was a pollster for
former President  Bill Clinton .  Employers added 243,000 jobs in January, the biggest gain
in nine months, and the  unemployment rate  dropped to 8.3 percent
from 8.5 percent in December, the Labor Department reported
today in Washington. The improvement exceeded the most
optimistic forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey of economists.  Obama and administration officials offered a calibrated
public response, with nine months to go before the November
election and the  U.S. economy  still vulnerable to risks such as
a worsening of the European debt crisis.  Obama said that while too many people in the U.S. still
don’t have jobs, the data show “the economy is growing
stronger” and “the recovery is speeding up.” In remarks in
the Washington suburb of Arlington,  Virginia , Obama appealed to
Congress to pass an extension of the payroll tax cut for workers
and unemployment benefits.  “Do not slow down the recovery that we’re on,” Obama
said, directing his words at lawmakers. “Don’t muck it up.”  Former Massachusetts Governor  Mitt Romney , the Republican
presidential front-runner, called the decline in the jobless
rate “good news” while criticizing Obama.  Romney Statement  “It has taken a lot longer than it should have to come
back, in part because of the policies of this administration,”
Romney said as he campaigned in  Nevada , where the next round in
the Republican nomination contest takes place tomorrow.  The economy’s 2.8 percent growth rate in the final quarter
of last year was only slightly above the minimum expansion rate
most economists say is needed to bring down unemployment. A
slowdown might reverse the jobs gains.  The nation experienced just such a scenario last year, when
progress on joblessness reversed following a surge in  oil
prices , supply chain disruptions from the tsunami in  Japan  and
market concern over European debt.  Even if job growth continues, the headline  unemployment
rate  that dominates the political debate on the economy may
rise. That would happen if workers who had given up looking for
a job, and so are no longer included in the data, resume seeking
employment.  Rebound Risk  Today’s employment report underscored that risk. The
portion of the population counted as participating in the
workforce declined in January to 63.7 percent from 64.0 percent
in December. In December 2007, at the start of the recession,
66.0 percent of the population held jobs or were actively
seeking employment.  Obama, in his State of the Union address last month,
presented re-election themes that de-emphasize the need for a
speedy recovery. Instead, he stressed fostering durable growth
through an economy “built to last” and a “fair shot” for the
middle class.  Only one U.S. president since World War II --  Ronald Reagan 
-- has been re-elected with a jobless rate above 6 percent.
Reagan won a second term in 1984 with 7.2 percent unemployment
on Election Day, after the rate had fallen almost three
percentage points in the previous 18 months.  The Labor Department data released today showed employers
added jobs in a broad range of industries, including
manufacturing and construction as well as temporary help
agencies, accounting firms, restaurants and retailers.  Economy’s Momentum  “The economy’s above stall speed now,” said  Gus Faucher ,
senior economist at  PNC (PNC)  Bank in Pittsburgh. “It’s got that
momentum going where you’re going to have job growth generating
spending gains, generating job growth.”  The Standard & Poor’s  500 Index  rose 1.4 percent to 1,344.0
at 12:45 p.m. in  New York , extending the best start to the year
since 1989. The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note
climbed to 1.94 percent from 1.82 percent late yesterday.  Still, long-range forecasts suggest that the recovery still
may be slow.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told Congress yesterday that
while the labor market has “improved modestly” over the past
year, the long-term unemployment picture is “particularly
troubling.”  The Fed forecast an unemployment rate of 8.2 to 8.5 percent
in 2012, falling to 6.7 to 7.6 percent by the fourth quarter of
2014, according to its Jan. 25 forecast.  ‘Long Way to Go’  “We still have a long way to go before the labor market
can be said to be operating normally,” Bernanke told the House
Budget Committee.  The nonpartisan  Congressional Budget Office  issued a more
pessimistic forecast on Jan. 31, projecting unemployment may
rise to 8.9 percent in the last three months of this year, which
includes Election Day, and increase to 9.2 percent in the last
quarter of 2013.  “We have not had a period of such persistently high
unemployment in this country since the Depression,” Douglas W. Elmendorf, director of agency, said at a news conference.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Dorning in  Washington  at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net ;
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  