-- Romney’s ‘Very Poor’ at Highest in 35 Years as Safety Gaps Grow
-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 2012-02-03T05:01:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/romney-s-very-poor-at-highest-percentage-in-35-years-as-safety-gaps-grow.html
Republican presidential candidate
 Mitt Romney ’s statement that the “very poor” don’t concern him
comes at a time when the portion of Americans living in deep
poverty is the highest in more than a generation while
assistance varies widely and is often inadequate.  “Virtually any food bank in any city in America would tell
you that they have not been able to keep up with the demand,”
said Bill Shore, founder and chief executive officer of Share
Our Strength, a national charity that fights childhood hunger.
“That means more rationing of food, not allowing families to
take as much as they would have before and being open shorter
hours.”  More than 20 million Americans live in a household with
income of less than half the federal  poverty rate , the level
social scientists often use as a category for the very poor,
according to census data for 2010. Last year that meant an
annual income below $11,057 for a family of four.  The portion of the population in that category was the
highest in at least 35 years and has almost doubled since 1975,
from 3.7 percent then to 6.7 percent in 2010.  Romney told  CNN  on Feb. 1 that “I’m not concerned about
the very poor” because they have many programs to help them. He
later clarified his remarks, telling reporters on his campaign
plane that low-income people have an “ample safety net,”
including Medicaid, housing vouchers, food stamps and the Earned
Income Tax Credit.  Facing a barrage of criticism from Democrats and one of his
Republican competitors, Romney said yesterday on Las Vegas
television station KSNV’s “ Face to Face with Jon Ralston ” that
he “misspoke” in the  CNN  interview.  ‘Biblical Call’  Without referencing Romney, President Barack Obama
yesterday twice mentioned caring for the poor in remarks to the
National Prayer Breakfast in Washington. He cited “the Biblical
call to care for the least of these -- for the poor, for those
at the margins of society.”  Former U.S. House Speaker  Newt Gingrich , a rival for the
Republican presidential nomination, responded with a message to
followers of his Twitter account. “I really believe we should
care about the very poor unlike Gov. Romney,” he wrote. “Poor
needs trampoline so they can swing up”  Several providers of services for low-income families and
analysts said Romney’s statement that the safety net protected
families in deep poverty didn’t square with reality.  Holes in Net  “The social safety net has great big holes in it,” said
Candy Hill, senior vice president for social policy and
government affairs at Catholic Charities USA. “In real time on
the ground, we’re seeing exponential increases of people coming
to our door for basic needs: emergency financial assistance,
food, housing.”  Eighty-eight percent of local Catholic Charities agencies
had to turn away people or place them on wait lists for
services, according to the organization’s most recent quarterly
survey of local affiliates, covering July through September
2011.  Ramon Garcia, county judge of Hidalgo County,  Texas , said
Romney is “oblivious to what is going on down here.” Garcia is
located in a metropolitan area near the southern tip of Texas
where 15.8 percent of the population lives on less than half the
federal poverty level.  “When you see how people are living and the increasing
numbers of people who are being assisted by food banks and at
our 11 health clinics, it is disappointing,” said Garcia, whose
office is administrative rather than judicial. “By law we have
to spend 8 percent of our budget on indigent health care, but
that isn’t enough to meet all of the demand.”  Recession’s Impact  Arloc Sherman, a senior researcher at the Washington-based
Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, said changes in federal
assistance in the 1996 welfare overhaul law have left poor
families more vulnerable in an extended recession with jobs hard
to find.  “It’s a safety net that has been shifting and provides
more support for working families than it did 20 years ago,”
Sherman said. “But if you happen to not have a job, the safety
net has weakened and is less likely to keep you out of the
deepest forms of poverty.”  Even so, temporary assistance programs included in the 2009
stimulus package and later legislation Congress passed in 2010
have helped some families avoid falling into deep poverty,
Sherman said.  About 2.4 million Americans were lifted above the $10,000
income threshold by benefits not fully captured in the census
count because of those temporary expansions of assistance,
Sherman said.  Aid Expansion  Those programs include a more generous Earned Income Tax
Credit and  child tax credit , extended  unemployment benefits  and
a higher maximum payment, expanded eligibility for food stamps
and a higher maximum food stamp benefit and the expired “Making
Work Pay” tax credit, Sherman said.  More than 46 million Americans received food stamps in
November, the most recent month for which figures are available,
down from an all-time high of 46.268 million in September,
according to the U.S. Agriculture Department. The number of
recipients set records every month from December 2008 until June
2011.  Food stamps, officially known as the Supplemental Nutrition
Assistance Program, is the only federal entitlement available to
most legal residents based solely on need, said Sheila
Zedlewski, a fellow at the  Urban Institute .  “Food stamps isn’t going to pay your rent or for your
gas,” Zedlewski said.  State Variations  Since the welfare overhaul in 1996, cash assistance for
families varies widely by state, she said.  “In  California , there is still cash assistance for you,”
she said. “In other states, it’s more likely to be emergency
assistance. It is typically one to three months of a welfare
payment, and you’re not to come back for a year after that.”  Thirty states pay no cash assistance to families who make
more than 30 percent of the federal poverty level, she said.  Zedlewski said assistance for the poor may be reduced as
state budgets contract and with the loss of billions of dollars
of federal assistance for welfare and job programs that were
included in the stimulus package.  Still, Ron Haskins, a former senior adviser on welfare to
then-President  George W. Bush , said a surge in federal spending
on food stamps,  unemployment insurance  and Medicaid has largely
provided for the poor.  “The safety net has functioned very well during the
recession,” said Haskins, now a fellow at the  Brookings
Institution . “There are people who fall through the cracks, but
I don’t think that’s a huge problem.”  While the recession has exposed shortcomings in cash
assistance, the emphasis on work-based assistance has mostly
helped low-income families, including the working poor who are
now eligible for unemployment insurance during periods of
joblessness, Haskins said.  “The real problem is that the very poor don’t work enough
and don’t marry enough,” Haskins said. “President Clinton and
the Republicans did something about that in the 1990s.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Dorning in  Washington  at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Komarow at   skomarow1@bloomberg.net . 