-- Romney Looks to Build Front-Runner Status in Nevada Caucuses
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2012-02-05T02:32:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/romney-says-obama-doesn-t-deserve-credit-for-january-s-u-s-payrolls-gain.html
Mitt Romney  looked to solidify his
front-runner status in the race for the Republican presidential
nomination today with a win in today’s Nevada’s caucuses, with
early results showing him ahead.  Romney had 39 percent of the vote, with 8 percent of the
precincts reporting, according to the Associated Press tally.
Former U.S. House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  had 25 percent, followed
by U.S. Representative  Ron Paul  of  Texas  with 22 percent and
former Senator  Rick Santorum  of  Pennsylvania  with 13 percent.  Signaling confidence about his prospects in Nevada, Romney
left the state today for a rally in Colorado Springs, Colorado.
He flew back to Las Vegas to await the Nevada results.  Gingrich is seeking a better-than-expected showing in a
contest that comes four days after the former Massachusetts
governor beat him by 14 percentage points in  Florida ’s primary.  Gingrich, who lightened his campaign schedule in Nevada to
make more time for fundraising calls needed to keep his campaign
alive, has sought to exploit a comment Romney made the morning
after his Jan. 31 Florida victory that the “very poor” don’t
concern him because they get assistance from various federal
programs.  Colorado Speech  In  Colorado , Romney addressed a crowd at a metal-works
factory. He made little mention of his Republican rivals,
focusing instead on President Barack Obama’s economic policy --
including the $825 billion stimulus package passed in early 2009
designed to stave off a severe recession.  “He said if he borrowed that money he would be able to
hold unemployment at below eight percent,” Romney said. “It
has not been below 8 percent since. And he’s celebrating that
it’s at 8.3,” a reference to the latest for January released
yesterday.  As Romney spoke, a large video screen to his right
displayed directions detailing on how to vote in Colorado’s Feb.
7 caucuses.  Political observers will be watching to see if Romney can
top the 51 percent he scored in  Nevada ’s 2008 caucuses during
his failed nomination bid that year.  Entrance polls  four years
ago showed 26 percent of Nevada’s Republican caucus-goers were
Mormon, like Romney, and he won 95 percent of that vote.  Paul and Santorum were also trying to generate momentum in
the typically lightly attended caucus meetings where casting a
vote takes more time than casting a ballot.  Right Tone  Romney sought to find the right campaign tone amid signs of
an improving U.S. economy.  In the report released yesterday, the U.S.  unemployment
rate  of 8.3 percent for January was the lowest in three years as
payrolls climbed more than forecast. The 243,000 increase in
jobs was the biggest in nine months and exceeded all forecasts
in a Bloomberg News survey.  “This president has not helped the process; he’s hurt
it,” Romney told 14 local businessmen he met with yesterday in
Sparks, Nevada. “If I’m the president, I will see what you do
as being a very good thing, a patriotic and good thing.”  The economy “has taken a lot longer than it should have to
come back, in part because of the policies of this
administration,” Romney said. “For that, the president
deserves the blame that he’ll receive in this campaign.”  November Battleground  The Nevada contest played out in a state that is seen by
political analysts as a battleground in November’s general
election. That means the Republican nominee is likely to return
to the state repeatedly later this year.  Nevada (STEHNV)  had the nation’s highest unemployment rate, 12.6
percent, in December. For the fifth straight year, the state
also had the highest rate of home  foreclosure filings  in 2011,
 according  to RealtyTrac Inc., a data seller in Irvine,
 California .  Speaking to several hundred people at a rally yesterday
inside an airport hangar in Elko, Nevada, Romney charged that
Obama has “failed the American people.”  Fred Weeks, 67, a geography and government teacher from
Spring Creek, Nevada, said it impressed him that Romney visited
the state’s sparsely populated northeast corner.  “It shows he cares,” Weeks said. “We’ve got to get Obama
out of office and Romney probably has the best chance.”  Besides Nevada, five other states hold nominating contests
in February, including caucuses in  Maine  that start this
weekend. Caucuses in Colorado and  Minnesota  on Feb. 7 are
followed by primaries in Arizona and  Michigan  on Feb. 28. A non-
binding primary will be held Feb. 7 in  Missouri , with delegate
allocation will be based on the state’s caucuses in March.  At a campaign event in  Las Vegas  yesterday, Gingrich
criticized Obama as an impediment to an economic rebound. He
cited as an example the president’s rejection earlier this month
of a permit for TransCanada Corp.’s Keystone XL pipeline.  In an interview on CNN, Gingrich said of Obama that, if the
economy “gets better and better and better between now and the
election, he will get some credit. On the other hand, if this is
a lull before it starts getting worse, his re-election will be
in enormous trouble.”  Growing Stronger  Obama, in remarks yesterday in the Washington suburb of
Arlington,  Virginia , said the jobs data show “the economy is
growing stronger,” and the recovery “is speeding up.”  Paul, who finished a distant second to Romney in Nevada in
2008, has been trying to capitalize on the loyalty of an active
volunteer base that his campaign believes will help him in the
caucus states. He also has targeted gun owners, veterans and
people who home-school their children, and sought to persuade
Mormons that he, not Romney, better represents their view of the
Constitution.  Paul is campaigning today in Minnesota.  Romney dominated his rivals in  television advertising  in
Nevada. His campaign spent an estimated $488,460 on broadcast
ads there through Feb. 2, according to New York-based Kantar
Media’s CMAG, which tracks advertising. One ad attacks Gingrich
as a “D.C. insider” who “cashed in” after leaving the
speakership “in disgrace.”  Restore Our Future, a political committee that is
independently supporting Romney’s campaign, spent $73,240
through Feb. 2 on an ad that accuses Gingrich of exaggerating
his ties to former President  Ronald Reagan .  Paul, who finished second to Romney in the 2008 Nevada
caucuses, spent $158,590 to air ads last summer and again in
late January.  Gingrich and Santorum and their allied political committees
didn’t air broadcast TV ads in Nevada.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 John McCormick  in Las Vegas, Nevada, at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Lerer in  Colorado Springs , Colorado, at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  