-- Russia Signals Interest Rates Poised to Remain Stable as Inflation Abates
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2012-02-03T17:02:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/russia-s-central-bank-leaves-benchmark-refinancing-rate-unchanged-at-8-.html
Russia refrained from cutting
 interest rates  after a surprise reduction in December, signaling
for the first time since August that borrowing costs may remain
unchanged in the “coming months.”  Bank Rossii held the overnight auction-based repurchase
rate used to provide cash for banks at 5.25 percent and the
overnight deposit rate at 4 percent, according to a statement
published on its website today. The refinancing rate stays at 8
percent, as forecast by 11 of 15 economists in a Bloomberg
 survey .  Policy makers are calibrating their stance after Russia
followed emerging economies in lowering borrowing costs as
 Europe ’s debt crisis threatened to stall global demand. The bank
deems money-market interest rates “acceptable for the coming
months to ensure a balance between inflation and growth risks,”
according to the statement.  “Usually the market takes that phrase to mean that they
have at least two months of peace,”  Alexei Ulyukayev , a Bank
Rossii first deputy chairman, said at an investment conference
in Moscow after the decision. “It’s not only important what you
do, but also how you explain it.”  The overnight  MosPrime (MOSKON)  which banks say they charge to lend
to each other fell to 4.49 percent today, the lowest since Oct.
7. Bank Rossii offered the minimum of 10 billion rubles ($331
million) at a repurchase auction today as liquidity concerns
abate.  Ample Liquidity  Money held on correspondent accounts and deposits at the
central bank, a key indicator of liquidity, rose to 1.09
trillion rubles today from as low as 786.9 billion rubles on
Jan. 26, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  of 30 stocks fluctuated between gains and
losses after the announcement and was 0.1 percent higher at
1,544.23 as of 4:14 p.m. in Moscow. The ruble weakened 0.1
percent to 30.2399 per dollar.  Central bank Chairman Sergey Ignatiev wants to trim the
 inflation  rate to about 5 percent to 6 percent in 2012 from a
record-low 6.1 percent last year as economic expansion outpaces
forecasts. Price growth fell to 4.1 percent as of Jan. 30 from a
year earlier, according to the statement.  The world’s largest energy exporter grew faster than
economists forecast last year, expanding  4.3 percent  and
returning to output levels before a 7.8 percent contraction in
2009. Officials may revise the figure up to 4.5 percent or more,
Deputy Economy Minister  Andrei Klepach  said this week.
 Unemployment (RUUER)  unexpectedly fell to 6.1 percent in December.  Do Nothing  “The central bank is exploiting the opportunity to do
nothing, while inflation is still trending down,” Aurelija Augulyte, an emerging-markets economist at  Nordea Bank AB (NDA)  in
Copenhagen, said by e-mail. Inflation will probably accelerate
in year-on-year terms in the second quarter, boosted by “robust
domestic demand.”  OAO Magnit (MGNT) , the country’s largest food retailer by market
value, was among the companies that benefited from surging
domestic demand, posting a 20 percent gain in net income last
year.  OAO AvtoVAZ (AVAZ) , the biggest carmaker, boosted Russian sales
11 percent in 2011.  ‘Firm’ Demand  Policy makers said in the statement that consumption demand
remained “firm” in December, while production data were
“measured.” Retail sales, which rose the most in more than
three years in December, were boosted by low unemployment,
rising real incomes and a continued increase in retail lending,
according to the statement.  Record-low inflation may help Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin 
solidify voter support as he seeks to reclaim the presidency in
March elections. Prices and poverty are seen as the biggest
threats facing the country this year, according to a Jan. 31
poll by the independent  Levada Center .  Policy makers will have a more difficult time meeting this
year’s inflation target than they did in cutting price growth to
6.1 percent last year, Ulyukayev said today.  “A planned delay of increases on the majority of regulated
prices and tariffs to mid-2012” contributed to slower price
growth, policy makers said in the statement. “Bank Rossii is
taking into account the temporary nature of this effect and
continues to focus on mid-term inflation forecasts in its
monetary policy decisions.”  Russia ’s central bank unexpectedly cut the refinancing rate
to 8 percent from 8.25 percent and lowered the rate on fixed
repurchase facilities by a quarter point to 6.25 percent while
raising the overnight deposit rate by the same amount to 4
percent at its last meeting in December.  ‘Neutral’ Changes  The changes were intended to be “neutral” for monetary
policy while helping policy makers manage interbank interest
rates, which tend to fluctuate within that range, the central
bank said in its statement.  The inflation rate fell to a “marvelous” 4.7 percent and
may drop further in the near term, Ulyukayev said last week.
Price growth this month probably won’t exceed the rate in
January, when it reached about 0.5 percent, Klepach said Feb. 1.  Retail lending will slow “significantly” this year, while
stagnation is “very probable” for manufacturers in the coming
months, Klepach said. Gross domestic product will rise 3.7
percent this year, the government predicts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  