-- Micex Surges to Sixth Week of Gains as U.S. Data Boosts Appetite
-- B y   J a c k   J o r d a n
-- 2012-02-03T16:42:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/russia-stocks-fluctuate-before-u-s-jobs-data-polyus-gold-jumps.html
Russian stocks  surged to their sixth
week of gains as the benchmark index rallied after better-than-
expected U.S. data spurred bets Europe’s debt crisis won’t
derail the global economy, lifting appetite for riskier assets.  The 30-stock  Micex index (INDEXCF)  added 1.5 percent to 1,564.82 by
the close in Moscow, taking its weekly gain to 3.8 percent, the
most since the period ending Dec. 4. Russia-focused equity
mutual funds attracted $414 million in the week to Feb. 1,
Troika Dialog said today, citing fund researcher EPFR Global.  Crude,  Russia ’s chief export, rose 0.9 percent to $97.23 in
New York futures trading after the U.S. Labor Department said
the  unemployment rate  dropped to the lowest level since February
2009 last month, a signal demand for the commodity may rise in
the world’s largest economy. The Micex trades at 5.9 times
analysts’ earnings estimates, making it the cheapest of the
major emerging-market benchmark measures.  “Russia-dedicated funds showed their biggest inflows since
April, which indicated risk-on again now that the U.S. is
showing signs of recovery,” Marco Casas, vice-president of
equity sales at Otkritie Capital in  New York , said in e-mailed
comments today.  OAO Polyus Gold, Russia’s biggest producer of the metal,
surged 35 percent in Moscow as investors bet its London-listed
parent company will make a buyout offer. OAO Magnitogorsk Iron &
Steel climbed 5.4 percent to 14.93 rubles, the highest closing
price since Dec. 5. The dollar-denominated RTS Index gained 1.4
percent to 1,625.60.  PMI Helps Stocks  “The valuations look cheap and we have been overweight in
our exposure because of the cheapness,” Richard Lacaille, chief
investment officer at  State Street Global Advisors , which
oversees $2.1 trillion, said in an interview at Troika Dialog’s
annual investment conference in Moscow today.  The Micex is up 12 percent this year and climbed to the
highest level in five months yesterday as manufacturing gauges
in  Europe ,  China  and  India  rose in January. Urals, Russia’s main
export blend, was little changed today at $112.32.  OAO Rosneft advanced 1.5 percent to 233.59 rubles after
Russia’s biggest oil producer reported higher-than-expected
fourth-quarter income of $2.99 billion.                      The Micex retreated 17 percent in 2011, compared with an 18
percent drop for  Brazil ’s Bovespa index, which is valued at 10.2
times estimated earnings, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The Shanghai Composite Index trades at 9.6 times
estimated earnings and the BSE India Sensitive Index has a ratio
of 15.6.  Fund Flows  Global emerging-market funds reported a sixth week of
inflows as investor confidence in the global economy
strengthened, Citigroup Inc. said. Funds investing in
developing-nation stocks took in $2.6 billion in the week ended
Feb. 1, Citigroup analysts led by  Markus Rosgen , wrote in a
report dated today, citing EPFR.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nicholson in Moscow at 
 anicholson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  