-- S&P Removes Duka as Head of CMBS Ratings, Newsletter Says
-- B y   Z e k e   F a u x
-- 2012-02-03T17:40:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/s-p-removes-duka-as-head-of-mortgage-ratings-newsletter-says.html
Standard & Poor’s  has removed Barbara Duka from her position as head of ratings for commercial
mortgage-backed securities, according to Commercial Mortgage
Alert.  Duka’s role changed about six weeks ago, the newsletter
said today, without citing sources. Grace Osborne, to whom Duka
reported, continues to oversee S&P’s mortgage business,
according to the report.  S&P, a New York-based unit of McGraw-Hill Cos., has been
replacing ratings executives since Douglas Peterson, a former
Citigroup Inc. executive, took over for Deven Sharma as
president in September. Mark Adelson, who was chief credit
officer, was reassigned to a research role in December, while
David Jacob, global head of structured finance, left the firm.  Duka didn’t return a telephone message seeking confirmation
of the report.  Ed Sweeney , a spokesman for S&P, declined to
comment on whether Duka was leaving the company.  The changes come after S&P garnered a smaller share of
structured-finance business than Moody’s Investors Service last
year for the first time since 1997, according to Asset-Backed
Alert, another newsletter.  In July, S&P withdrew grades it had assigned to a $1.5
billion offering of bonds backed by commercial mortgages from
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Citigroup Inc., forcing the banks
to scuttle the transaction after it was placed with investors.  “The manner in which S&P took its action has severely
eroded investor and issuer confidence in its ratings,” Morgan
Stanley analysts led by Richard Parkus in  New York  wrote in a
note on July 28.  Goldman Sachs and Citigroup resuscitated the deal in
September with grades from Moody’s and  Fitch Ratings , according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zeke Faux in New York at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  