-- S&P Sees Emerging Markets Driving Europe Recovery in Second Half
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2012-02-03T12:14:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/s-p-sees-emerging-markets-driving-europe-recovery-in-second-half.html
Europe ’s economy will probably
recover gradually in the second half of this year from a
recession that began last quarter,  Standard & Poor’s  said.  “A central assumption behind this forecast is that
emerging markets hold up well,” Jean-Michel Six, S&P’s chief
economist for Europe, the  Middle East  and Africa, said in an
interview in Moscow yesterday. “The other condition is a
gradual return of confidence by international investors on
capital markets, especially on the sovereign-bond markets in
Europe.”  European officials and creditors of Greece are trying to
conclude talks that may offer the indebted euro member a second
international bailout to help it remain in the currency union.
The  European Central Bank ’s long-term refinancing operation,
also known as LTRO, of more than 400 billion euros ($527
billion) in three-year loans offered in December at 1 percent is
already helping, according to Six.  “We’ll see how much more is being raised at the second
LTRO that’s going to take place in the next few days,” he said.
“At this point, the money injected by the central bank is
staying within the financial sector and therefore is not
morphing into real money.”  Emerging markets  such as China and  India , the world’s two
most populous countries, will need to maintain growth while
trying to curb inflation and price bubbles to ensure that Europe
doesn’t face a steeper drop in output, Six said.  “Central banks have been, by and large, successful at
orchestrating that soft landing without having a crash,” Six
said before an appearance at an investment conference in Moscow.  China was able to cut inflation to 4 percent from 6 percent
last year and has shown “convincing evidence that the housing
markets are also going down without crashing,” Six said. India
is facing “sticky” core inflation that may prevent policy
makers from easing credit conditions as quickly as in other
markets, he added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  