-- Weinstein Says Stocks Attractive Compared With Overvalued Credit
-- B y   K e l l y   B i t
-- 2012-02-03T21:44:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/saba-s-weinstein-says-stocks-attractive-while-corporate-debt-is-overpriced.html
Boaz Weinstein , who runs $5 billion
hedge fund Saba Capital Management LP, said he is betting that
stocks will rally and urged investors to buy protection on
investment-grade corporate bonds because debt is overpriced.  “Credit stands out as extreme overvalue to equities,”
Weinstein said in a speech yesterday at the Harbor Investment
Conference in  New York . “Equities look attractive to credit.”  Weinstein, 38, whose New York-based long-short credit fund
typically avoids large bets on the direction of an economy and
profits from pricing irregularities between securities, said he
is buying the ninth series of Markit Group Ltd.’s CDX North
America Investment Grade Index, which is composed of 119 credit-
default swaps tied to high-grade debt. The swaps are securities
used to hedge against losses or to speculate on
creditworthiness.  Yields on U.S. investment-grade corporate bonds at 3.525
percent are approaching the lowest level on record, 3.452
percent reached Aug. 4, according to the Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index data. That’s down from 4.148 percent a year earlier.  Weinstein reiterated that he is buying Italian bonds while
betting against the banks, a trade he has mentioned in the last
two months. Long-short managers can bet that the prices of
securities will rise or fall. In a short sale, an investor
borrows a security and sells it, expecting to profit from a
decline by repurchasing it later at a lower price.  Justice Holdings  William Ackman , the activist hedge-fund manager,
recommended shares of Justice Holdings Ltd., a shell company
incorporated in the British Virgin Islands that is backed by his
hedge fund,  Pershing Square  Capital Management LP. Ackman was
named to Justice Holdings’ board as a non-executive director in
April.  Pershing Square, based in New York, owns about 30 percent
of Justice Holdings, Ackman said at the conference. The shell
company is seeking to find a business to buy and take public, he
said. Should Justice Holdings fail to make an acquisition in two
years, Pershing Square will divest, he said. In the meantime,
Justice Holdings has invested cash it raised in U.K. short-term
gilts, he said.  “It’s as risk-free as risk-free is in the world,” Ackman
said. “We don’t find something smart in two years, you get your
money back investing in U.K. gilts.”  Ackman, 45, invests in companies he deems undervalued and
then urges changes he believes will increase shareholder
returns. In the past year and a half, he has bought stakes in
Fortune Brands Inc. and J.C. Penney Co. Ackman became Canadian
Pacific Railway Ltd.’s largest investor last year.  DST Systems  Stephen Raneri, managing member and portfolio manager of
New York-based event-driven hedge fund LionEye Capital
Management LLC, recommended shares of  DST Systems Inc. (DST) , the
software provider that rejected a June buyout bid from private-
equity firm RDG Capital LLC. Event-driven  hedge funds  seek to
profit from events such as mergers.  Raneri cited the possibilities of a buyout at some point,
shareholder activism from board member George Argyros or
divestitures of assets, including private-equity and real estate
holdings. DST, based in  Kansas City ,  Missouri , provides
information processing and manages data for financial-services
firms and other sectors.  Rentech Nitrogen  Howard Shainker, managing partner of New York-based Bow
Street LLC, recommended shares of Rentech Nitrogen Partners LP,
a unit that spun out of renewable-fuels developer Rentech Inc.
in November. Rentech Nitrogen owns a plant that produces
nitrogen fertilizer products in East Dubuque,  Illinois , near the
border with  Iowa . The two states are the top corn producers in
the U.S.  Shainker likes Los Angeles-based Rentech Nitrogen because
it generates a lot of cash and nitrogen-based fertilizers will
be in demand for weak corn crops, he said. The stock, which
closed today at $25.01 in New York trading, may be worth as much
as $30 a share, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelly Bit in New York at   kbit@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  