-- San Francisco Sale May Fetch Highest Square-Foot Price Since ’07
-- B y   D a n   L e v y
-- 2012-02-03T21:22:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/san-francisco-office-sale-may-fetch-highest-square-foot-price-since-2007.html
A  San Francisco  office building may
sell for about $185 million, resulting in the city’s highest
per-square-foot price since the 2007 commercial peak as demand
from technology firms pushes rents up.  Foundry Square IV, a 10-story building in the tech-heavy
South of Market area, may bring bids of as much as $800 a square
foot, said  Kenneth Rosen , chairman of Berkeley, California-based
real estate adviser Rosen Consulting Group. The Class A property
has 233,000 square feet (22,000 square meters) of space and is
fully leased to  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) , which has sublet the building,
according to broker  Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. (JLL)   “San Francisco is the hottest office market in the U.S.,”
Michael Knott, managing director at research firm Green Street
Advisors Inc., in  Newport Beach ,  California , wrote in an e-mail.
“It’s the only place where investors can find rapidly rising
rents, and accelerating appreciation reflects that attribute.”  Asking rates in South of Market climbed 22 percent in the
fourth quarter from a year earlier to $46 a square foot, the
fastest growth rate for that area since 2000, said Colin Yasukochi, research director for Jones Lang LaSalle. San
Francisco and New York led U.S. cities with the biggest year-
over-year gains in effective rents in the fourth quarter, Reis
Inc. said in a Jan. 6 report.  San Francisco’s citywide office vacancy rate was 14.7
percent in fourth quarter, the ninth-lowest among 79
metropolitan areas surveyed by Reis. Washington led at 9.4
percent, followed by  New York  at 10.5 percent, the New York-
based data firm said.  Four Buildings Planned  Foundry Square IV is a “core plus” asset attractive to
global investors, Rosen said. The building, completed in 2002 as
part of a planned four-building complex, sits at a corner of
First and Howard streets near the Foundry Square I and II
buildings. The final structure was never built. Bain Capital
LLC’s Gymboree Corp. subleases Foundry IV from software maker
Oracle, which never moved in, according to Jones Lang LaSalle.  Palmer Capital Inc., based in Sacramento, California, is
brokering the sale of Foundry IV, said David Smith, a partner at
the company.  The building was acquired by the Utah Retirement Systems in
2003 for $119 million, or $480 a square foot, according to
research firm Real Capital Analytics Inc. Jeff J. Allen, chief
information officer for the Salt Lake City-based fund, didn’t
immediately return a telephone call seeking comment.  The peak office sale in San Francisco was Morgan Stanley’s
purchase of the two-building One Market complex for $1.46
billion, or $1,001 a square foot, in 2007, according to New
York-based Real Capital. The property was part of a San
Francisco portfolio sale by private equity firm  Blackstone Inc. (BX) ,
following its buyout of  Sam Zell ’s Equity Office Properties
Trust.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Levy in San Francisco at 
 dlevy13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Taub at 
 dtaub@bloomberg.net  