-- SEC Appoints GAO’s Franzel to Join Auditor Watchdog Panel
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-02-03T20:34:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/sec-said-to-appoint-gao-s-franzel-to-auditor-watchdog-panel.html
Jeanette M. Franzel, a managing
director at the Government Accountability Office, will fill a
vacancy on the Washington-based panel that oversees public-
company auditors, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
said in a statement.  The commission chose Franzel to replace former acting
chairman Daniel Goelzer, whose term on the  Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board  expired late last year, the SEC said.  Franzel will join the five-member board March 1 as it
weighs several major changes to core auditing rules, including
increasing disclosures and forcing companies to rotate auditors.  “I’m really looking forward to having an opportunity to
help the PCAOB advance its mission to protect investors and the
public interest,” Franzel said in a telephone interview.  The panel, a nonprofit corporation created under the 2002
 Sarbanes-Oxley Act  to oversee auditors for U.S.-listed firms,
has been pursuing several policy changes opposed by the
industry. For instance, Ernst & Young LLP sent a letter to the
board on Nov. 18 opposing the forced rotation of auditors,
describing “many identifiable and known downsides to such a
policy with little to no certain benefit.”  Franzel’s appointment was opposed by Commissioner Luis Aguilar, who said in a statement that the commission “failed to
fulfill its legal obligation” to appoint a person with a
commitment to investor advocacy.  Investor Interests  “I believe the Commission is bound to appoint an
individual whose actions, public statements, and reputation
demonstrate a clear and steadfast advocacy of the rights and
interests of investors,” Aguilar said. He said that in several
comment letters to the board, Franzel didn’t mention investors.  In a statement, SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  said Franzel
“has extensive hands-on experience leading financial audits and
deep expertise in audit quality control which will serve the
PCAOB well.”  Franzel’s department at the GAO took a public position
against the forced rotation proposal in a letter dated Dec. 14.  “Even if the PCAOB could clearly establish that a lack of
independence or objectivity is causing audit quality problems,
it is unclear that such a problem would be prevented or
mitigated by a mandatory audit firm rotation requirement,” the
letter said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in  Washington  at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net . 