-- Payroll-Tax Cut Backup Plan Prepared in Case Negotiations Fail
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2012-02-03T22:52:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/senate-democrats-preparing-payroll-tax-cut-backup-plan-in-case-talks-fail.html
Senate Democrats are devising a
backup plan to extend a  payroll tax  cut and emergency
 unemployment  benefits that are set to lapse in coming weeks if
negotiations with the Republican-controlled House don’t lead to
a deal, said Majority Leader  Harry Reid .  “Republicans continue to drag their feet” in House-Senate
conference talks on extending the  tax cut , expanded jobless
benefits and a provision to prevent a 27 percent drop in
 Medicare (USBOMDCR)  reimbursement for doctors, Reid said today on a
conference call with reporters. In December, Congress extended
the benefits for two months past a Dec. 31 expiration when
lawmakers couldn’t agree on how to finance the provisions for 12
months.  Congress needs “to move quickly to extend the  payroll-tax 
cut to make sure” workers don’t “get a tax increase,” said
Reid, a Nevada Democrat. Unless Congress acts by Feb. 29, the
payroll tax for workers would increase by 2 percentage points.  Allowing the tax break to lapse or long-term jobless
benefits to end would undermine the nation’s economic recovery,
Reid said. Even with the drop in the jobless rate from 8.5
percent to 8.3 percent announced today, “the worst thing we
could do now is to stop our effort to create jobs,” Reid said.  The House-Senate negotiators “understand there is a backup
plan” being drafted by Senate Democratic leaders, Reid said.
“If we have to put it forward, we will.”  Covering the Cost  Reid declined to say how the package would be financed,
saying, “We are not going to discuss how we are going to pay
for it.”  Republicans signaled in the House-Senate talks that they
will continue to seek restrictions on Obama administration
initiatives, including preventing the Environmental Protection
Agency from issuing rules on air pollution from industrial
boilers.  Representative  Chris Van Hollen , a  Maryland  Democrat, said
negotiators plan three public meetings next week. He told
reporters he doesn’t believe conferees are getting any closer to
an agreement on how to pay for the payroll tax cut.  “We’ve not agreed on offsets,” Van Hollen told reporters.
“That doesn’t mean we won’t be able to find them.”  House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor  of Virginia accused
Senate Democrats of stalling the negotiations.  House Republicans 
“are ready to make sure we resolve the issue of the payroll-tax
holiday extension right now,” Cantor said in an exchange on the
House floor with second-ranking Democrat  Steny Hoyer  of
Maryland.  ‘Off the Dime’  After Hoyer called for quick action, Cantor said Hoyer
“should direct his urgency toward the majority leader in the
Senate to see if we can get this off the dime” so Congress can
“send a very certain signal” to workers “that their taxes
will not go up.”  Negotiators are not much closer to resolving disagreements
over extending the emergency unemployment benefits, said  Van
Hollen  and Democratic Representative  Xavier Becerra  of
 California .  Republicans are seeking to cut maximum benefits from 99
weeks to 54 weeks in states hardest hit by joblessness. They
also want to let states require drug tests for people seeking
benefits, and require high school dropouts who qualify for
jobless benefits to work toward a general education diploma.  Becerra said in an interview today that an unemployment
proposal this week by Senate Democrats addressed minor items,
including authority for states to collect overpayments, though
not “first tier” issues such as the length of benefits or
whether to include the changes Republicans are pushing.  The office of Representative  Dave Camp , a Michigan
Republican and chairman of the conference panel, said the next
conference meeting will be Feb. 7.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  