-- Siberian Freeze Kills 250 as Snow, Gale-Force Winds Envelop Eastern Europe
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2012-02-03T14:52:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/siberian-freeze-kills-250-as-snow-gale-force-winds-envelop-eastern-europe.html
Eastern  Europe ’s death toll climbed
to about 250 as the region grapples with a Siberian freeze,
heavy snowfall and gale-force winds that disrupted traffic,
boosted energy use to record levels and sealed off towns.  The cold killed 101 people in  Ukraine , where 1,248 people
were hospitalized with frostbite, the Emergency Ministry said
today. In  Russia , at least 60 have frozen to death in 50
provinces this month, the  Health Ministry  said, while Polish
police reported eight cold-related deaths yesterday, bringing
the toll to 43 since Jan. 24.  The region has been battling temperatures as low as minus
50 Celsius (minus 58 Fahrenheit) in parts of  Kazakhstan , the
lowest on record, and minus 30.2 degrees in the Russian city of
Smolensk, 392 kilometers (244 miles) west of Moscow. In  Serbia ,
16 towns have declared emergency after being under snow since
Jan. 10, said Goran Nikolic, head of the emergency situations
division at the Interior Ministry.  “It’s difficult or even impossible to ship food and
medical supplies to households in remote mountainous villages,”
Nikolic said in a phone interview today.  The coldest weather in 75 years in Azerbaijan closed roads
and interrupted the operation of the main airport in the
capital, Baku. Forecasts show the cold snap persisting for days.  Roads, Rivers  Snow closed 12 national roads in  Romania , where 24 people
have lost their lives because of the cold. The country issued a
warning for blizzards and snowfall until Feb. 5. About 370
schools were closed today in 29 counties and 60 trains were
canceled, the government said. Authorities restricted traffic on
the Danube river as a Dutch ship carrying wheat was ice-bound.  In the  Czech Republic , where temperatures fell to minus
38.2 degrees, 105 measuring stations of the Czech
Hydrometeorological Institute last night reported the lowest-
ever temperatures for the date, according to spokesman Petr
Dvorak.  Slovenia’s southwestern region, nestled between the Alps
and the  Adriatic Sea , was battered by gale-force winds in the
past days and expects stronger winds today with speeds reaching
as much as 180 kilometers per hour (112 miles per hour), Andrej
Velkavrh, a meteorologist at the environmental agency in
Ljubljana, the capital, said by the phone.  Energy Consumption  The cold snap boosted energy consumption across the region.
Russian electricity consumption surged to an all-time record for
a second consecutive day yesterday, OAO System Operator said
today on its website. Power use reached 157,099 megawatts as of
10 a.m. on Feb. 2 in Moscow with outside temperature at minus
23.4 Celsius, the Russian power-network administrator said.  Polish gas demand hit a record-high 70.3 million cubic
meters yesterday, Malgorzata Polkowska, a spokeswoman at Gaz-
System SA, Poland’s state-owned natural-gas pipeline operator
said by phone today. Estonia’s electricity consumption rose to a
two-year high of 1545 megawatts today, a tad below the all-time
high of 1,587 megawatts recorded in January 2010, according to
grid operator Elering  website . Gas consumption in Serbia jumped
to a record 16 million cubic meters, prompting the government to
consider closing schools and reducing industrial production to
save energy.  Gas Supplies  European customers are experiencing declines in gas
supplies because Russia has cut shipments, RIA Novosti said,
citing Ukraine’s Energy and Coal Minister  Yuriy Boyko . Transit
across Ukraine to the European Union is 415 million cubic meters
of gas a day, compared with a maximum level of 490 million cubic
meters, the news service said.  Europe gets about 25 percent of its gas from Russia and as
much as 80 percent crosses Ukraine.  OAO Gazprom (GAZP)  is shipping the
“maximum possible” and quadrupled off-take from underground
storage in Europe during the current cold snap,  Alexander
Medvedev , deputy chief executive officer of the Russian gas
exporter, said yesterday in a statement. Medvedev said Ukraine
is taking more gas than allowed by its contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  