-- Billionaire Gives Tips for Switching IPhone Plans From AT&T
-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n   a n d   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2012-02-03T22:43:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/slim-s-u-s-carrier-shows-users-how-to-unlock-iphones-bought-from-at-t.html
Billionaire Carlos Slim’s U.S. mobile
carrier is giving users instructions for switching their  AT&T
Inc. (T)  iPhones to his prepaid calling plans, showing them how to
disable software aimed at preventing customers from defecting.  The  site  for Slim’s Straight Talk service, sold through
 Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , directs users of the  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  device who
have trouble switching away from AT&T to a website that provides
information. AT&T has a 9 percent stake in Straight Talk’s
parent,  America Movil SAB (AMXL) , and has members on the board of
Slim’s wireless carrier.  America Movil, the biggest U.S. prepaid wireless carrier,
is using a Straight Talk unlimited $45 monthly smartphone plan
to attract  Verizon (VZ)  Wireless and AT&T users. The iPhone
instructions are part of Straight Talk’s aim to begin in the
next 30 days offering small chip cards, known as SIM, that can
be inserted into phones bought from stores, AT&T or  T-Mobile
USA (DTE) , said  Walter Piecyk , a BTIG Inc. analyst in  New York .  “There is certainly a healthy inventory of used iPhones
that consumers can buy at a low cost on EBay, but we believe
Straight Talk’s new rate plan could also attract consumers using
brand new iPhones,” Piecyk said in a research note today noting
the switching directions.  Two-Year Contracts  AT&T sells the iPhone and other smartphones at a loss to
get customers to sign up for contracts that typically run for
two years. To try to prevent users from leaving during that
period, AT&T “locks” the phones using software to ensure they
only work on the carrier’s own network. Many other providers
also use the same strategy.  An official of Mexico City-based  America Movil  who can’t be
named under company policy declined to comment, as did Ashley Zandy, a spokeswoman for Dallas-based AT&T. Kristin Huguet, an
Apple spokeswoman, didn’t return a phone message. Officials of
Wal-Mart couldn’t immediately be reached.  America Movil doesn’t have its own network in the U.S. and
rents capacity from U.S. carriers, including AT&T. That could
limit the impact of America Movil’s SIM-card plan, since AT&T
would simply charge America Movil for users that used to be its
own clients, Piecyk said.  In its home country of Mexico, America Movil doesn’t
provide users with a way to unlock their phones. Unlocking
services can be found from sidewalk vendors in downtown Mexico
City.  Pressure on Prepaid  Piecyk lowered his rating on regional prepaid carrier
 MetroPCS Communications Inc. (PCS)  to “neutral” from “buy” today,
citing the Straight Talk threat to pay-as-you-go providers.  “The ability to use the iPhone with Straight Talk could
materially change the competitive dynamic in the U.S.,” Piecyk
wrote in his research note. “The iPhone is the phone everyone
wants, and now you can use it on a prepaid plan for only $45 a
month for unlimited use,” he said later in an e-mail.  That plan compares to $90 a month at AT&T, the analyst
said. Consumers may prefer to pay $600 for an unsubsidized
iPhone then switch to Straight Talk to save money instead of
signing a two-year contract with AT&T, he said.  Straight Talk’s own smartphone offerings include  LG
Electronics Inc. (066570)  and  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  phones that use
Google Inc.’s Android operating system. America Movil started
the brand in 2009, selling exclusively through Wal-Mart.  The Mexican company’s U.S. unit, which also uses the
TracFone, Net10 and Safelink brands, had 19.3 million clients at
the end of September.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  