-- Slovenian Benchmark Bond Yield Drops Below 6% on ECB Financing
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2012-02-03T11:28:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/slovenian-benchmark-bond-yield-drops-below-6-on-ecb-financing.html
The yield on  Slovenia ’s benchmark
government bonds dropped below 6 percent for the first time in
three months as the European Central Bank’s increased lending
stoked demand for debt of European nations.  Slovenia’s notes maturing in January 2021 continued to
rally with the yield dropping to 5.934 percent at 12:06 p.m. in
Ljubljana, according to mid-pricing data compiled by Bloomberg.
The yield breached the 7 percent mark on Nov. 11 as the
sovereign debt crisis threatened to engulf Italy, Slovenia’s
western neighbor and its third-biggest trading partner after
Germany and Austria.  “It’s all due to external factors,” Michal Dybula, an
economist at BNP Paribas in Warsaw, Poland, said in an e-mail
today. “Risk mode is now on for all markets following the ECB’s
long-term refinancing operation.”  The Frankfurt-based ECB’s three-year lending program, known
as LTRO, is stoking demand for the region’s sovereign debt even
as policy makers struggle to reach agreement on a second bailout
for Greece. European nations such as France and Spain are also
seeing their borrowing costs decline on investors’ appetite for
riskier assets.  Slovenia, which had its  credit rating  cut by Moody’s, Fitch
and  Standard & Poor’s  since September, may get a new government
led by  Janez Jansa , who promised to trim spending by 800 million
euros ($1.1 billion) this year. The euro-area nation has been
without an official Cabinet since the administration of Prime
Minister  Borut Pahor  was toppled in a September no-confidence
vote.  Slovenia is rated A1 at Moody’s, the fifth-highest
investment level, and an equivalent A+ at S&P. Fitch rates the
country at A. All three companies have assigned it a negative
outlook.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  