-- Slovaks Gather for Anti-Corruption Rally Five Weeks Before Vote
-- B y   R a d o s l a v   T o m e k
-- 2012-02-03T16:57:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/slovaks-gather-for-anti-corruption-rally-five-weeks-before-vote.html
Slovaks gathered for the biggest
anti-corruption rally since the fall of communism in the east
European country, demanding investigation of alleged bribery
involving high-level politicians five weeks before elections.  About 10,000 people gathered on a central square in
freezing temperatures today in Bratislava, the capital, the Sme
newspaper reported. Some 18,000 people registered to attend the
event on Facebook Inc’s website. Similar protests were to be
held in other cities across the country.  “The protests represent the biggest expression of public
discontent in many years,” said Grigorij Meseznikov, the head
of the Public Affairs Institute in Bratislava.  The protest was triggered by a suspected secret-service
file, which was leaked on the Internet in December. The
document, code-named Gorilla, suggested links between
politicians and businessmen, including agreements on contracts
of state-controlled companies during the 2002-2006 rule of
former Premier and current Foreign Minister Mikulas Dzurinda.  Allegations that the SDKU party would take funds from the
sales of state property “are absurd,” Dzurinda said in an
interview with the newspaper Sme on Jan. 19.  The scandal may influence the outcome of March 10
elections, Meseznikov said. Support for Dzurinda’s SDKU party
fell to 8.2 percent in a Jan. 20-27 survey conducted by the
private company Focus, from 11.3 percent in November. Smer, the
main opposition party led by former premier  Robert Fico , would
win with 41.4 percent, according to the poll carried out on a
sample of 1,141 people. No margin of error was given.  A special police team is investigating allegations in the
document, Interior Minister Daniel Lipsic has said. He confirmed
that the secret service was carrying out an operation to examine
ties between politicians and local businessmen, while declining
to comment on the authenticity of the leaked file.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Radoslav Tomek in Bratislava at 
 rtomek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  