-- Sony Surges Amid Optimism New CEO Hirai Will Revive Company: Tokyo Mover
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 2012-02-03T02:47:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/sony-surges-amid-optimism-new-ceo-hirai-will-revive-company-tokyo-mover.html
Sony Corp. (6758)  jumped the most in more
than 10 months in Tokyo trading after incoming Chief Executive
Officer  Kazuo Hirai  said he will close down some underperforming
businesses to help revive the unprofitable company.  The  shares jumped  as much as 8.9 percent, the biggest
intraday gain since March 16, to 1,446 yen. They ended the
morning session of trade at 1,427 yen, up 7.5 percent.  The maker of Walkman music players, Cyber-shot cameras and
PlayStation 3 game consoles will close less-competitive
businesses and review its portfolio, Hirai, who will replace
 Howard Stringer  as CEO on April 1, told reporters yesterday.
Sony more than doubled its full-year loss forecast yesterday to
 220 billion yen  ($2.9 billion), blaming a stronger yen, cuts in
production caused by floods in Thailand and the cost of exiting
a display-panel venture with  Samsung (005930)  Electronics Co.  “The shares are rising on expectations that the company
will be on track for rebuilding,” Makoto Sengoku, a market
analyst at Tokai Tokyo Securities Co., said by phone. “All the
bad factors have already been reflected.”  Sony can reward shareholders by narrowing its portfolio,
Hirai said in his first meeting with reporters after being named
to lead the company. He didn’t elaborate. Hirai said he will
present his business plans later, though he reaffirmed his
commitment to TVs.  ‘Step Forward’  “Unless we steer drastically toward reform, we may
confront a situation where decision-making comes with enormous
pain,” Hirai said yesterday in his first interaction with
reporters after he was named to lead the company. “If we hold
back, we cannot take a step forward.”  The world’s third-largest maker of televisions may project
an operating profit of about 200 billion yen in the fiscal year
that starts in April as the company won’t repeat one-time costs
that hurt profits this year, Chief Financial Officer Masaru Kato
said yesterday.  This year, Sony had one-time losses of about 70 billion yen
because of  Japan ’s March 11 earthquake, as much as 70 billion
yen because of the Thai floods, and 63 billion yen from the sale
of its stake in the Samsung venture, Kato said.  Hirai, 51, who worked in Sony’s music and entertainment
divisions, established his reputation by turning around the
PlayStation unit and edged out three other candidates with
engineering backgrounds for the top job. Stringer, 69, will
become chairman of the board after a shareholders meeting in
June, Sony said earlier this week.  ‘Sense of Urgency’  “We weren’t able to select areas where we want to
concentrate, so we ended up keeping products that became
commoditized,” Hirai said. “We want to make our focus clear
soon.”  During a joint news conference yesterday, Hirai reaffirmed
his commitment to TVs. The world’s No. 3 maker is maintaining a
sales target of 20 million sets, though the business may lose
between 220 billion yen and 230 billion yen, including the cost
of exiting the venture with Samsung, Kato said.  “Hirai shared a sense of urgency by commenting that the
company will act quickly once a decision has been made by a
unified management, it will make painful decisions, and that
Sony has no time to spare,”  Yuji Fujimori , a Tokyo-based
analyst at Barclays Plc, wrote in a note to clients today.
“Next is the company’s execution ability.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  