-- South African Stocks: Anglo, AngloGold, Eqstra, Investec, MTN
-- B y   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-02-03T11:14:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/south-african-stocks-anglo-anglogold-eqstra-investec-mtn.html
The  FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index (JALSH) 
declined for the first time in four days, falling 0.2 percent to
34,294.51 by 12:20 p.m. in Johannesburg, paring this week’s gain
to 1.2 percent.  The following are among the most active equities in the
South African market today. Stock symbols follow company names.  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  , the diversified miner that
accounts for 9 percent of the benchmark index, headed for its
highest close in nine months, climbing 1.8 percent to 346.79
rand. Copper rose, trimming the biggest weekly decline in more
than a month, before a report that may show U.S. employment
increased in January. Analysts also speculated the company is
becoming an even more likely takeover target with Xstrata Plc
and Glencore International Plc’s potential merger.  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG)  ,  Africa ’s biggest producer
of the metal, advanced for the first time in four days, gaining
0.8 percent to 358.85 rand. Gold headed for a fifth weekly
advance, the longest rally since August, as mixed U.S. economic
data and the European debt crisis drove demand for a haven
investment.  Eqstra Holdings Ltd. (EQS)  , which imports industrial and
construction equipment, rose the most in two weeks, adding 2.6
percent to 8 rand. Earnings per share after one-time items
probably increased as much as 24 percent in the six months
through December, the company said in a trading statement.  Investec Plc (INVP)  , the banking group with operations in
 South Africa ,  Australia  and the U.K., fell for the first time in
four days, declining 0.8 percent to 48.39 rand. The third
quarter of its fiscal year was “challenging” due to market
volatility, the lender said in an interim management statement.
Operating profit before goodwill, acquired intangibles, non-
operating items and taxation and after non-controlling interests
declined by 5.6 percent in the nine months through December
compared with a year earlier.  MTN Group Ltd. (MTN)  , Africa’s biggest mobile-phone
company, fell the most in a month, sliding 3.1 percent to 134
rand. Turkcell Iletisim Hizmetleri AS may file a lawsuit against
the company over the acquisition of an operating license in
 Iran , MTN said in a statement late yesterday.  New Europe Property Investments Plc (NEP)  (NEP SJ), a property
investment group, climbed to its highest since its 2009 listing,
gaining 2.9 percent to 36.50 rand. The company bought Modatim
Investment SA and Modatim Properties SA, which own three
adjoining office buildings in Timisoara,  Romania ’s fourth-
largest city.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  