-- Southern Chinese Leader Wang Yang’s Star Rises With Angela Merkel’s Visit
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-04T04:51:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/southern-chinese-leader-wang-yang-s-star-rises-with-angela-merkel-s-visit.html
Wang Yang, the Communist Party
chairman of China’s most populous province, got the chance to
raise his profile ahead of the country’s leadership transition
when he met today with German Chancellor  Angela Merkel .  Wang has gained a reputation as a political and economic
reformer during his four years in charge of Guangdong, the
province with the largest economy in China that is one of the
world’s biggest manufacturing centers and had a higher gross
domestic product than  Saudi Arabia .  A visit by Merkel gives Wang, 56, the chance to burnish his
image after trying to push Guangdong’s economic focus away from
exports and toward domestic services amid faltering global
demand for the goods its factories produce. He met Merkel for
breakfast in Guangzhou today according to a local foreign
affairs official, who didn’t want to give her name.  Wang’s handling of the economy in Guangdong may help win
him a spot on the party’s Politburo Standing Committee, said Hu
Yifan of Haitong International Securities Group.  “Over the years, Wang has been aiming to move the low-end
manufacturing sector up the value-added chain,” said Hu, chief
economist and head of research at Haitong. “While it will take
time for Guangdong to see significant improvement, I think Wang
will make a very strong candidate for the standing committee.”  Pushing Limits  Guangdong, with a population of 104 million people, is
where  China  set up the first special economic zones to attract
foreign investment more than three decades ago. It is also home
to some of the country’s most outspoken newspapers, which during
Wang’s tenure have pushed the limits of state censors. Its GDP
was 5.3 trillion yuan ($840.5 billion) in 2011.  “Thirty years ago when we started reform, it was mainly to
get rid of the shackles of ideology,” Wang said at a provincial
party meeting Jan. 4, the Guangdong-based Nanfang Daily reported
the next day. “And now reform will have to break the
constraints of the existing vested interests. If the direction
of reform is decided by these interests, then reform cannot
succeed.”  State-controlled media praised Wang for peacefully
resolving an uprising in the fishing village of Wukan in
December that went from standoff to a potential model for
settling similar disputes in the future.  The Wukan protests saw villagers oust local leaders in a
dispute over illegal land sales and election fraud. Regional
officials under Wang gave concessions to residents, who held
elections Feb. 1 for a committee that will oversee a ballot
later this year to name new village leaders.  ‘Strong Leader’  “Wang Yang scored very well for his handling of the Wukan
incident,” said  Li Cheng , who analyzes Chinese politics at the
 Brookings Institution  in  Washington . “Liberal intellectuals in
China are increasingly considering Wang Yang as a strong leader
to push for political reforms.”  The Communist Party holds a congress later this year that
will pick the leaders to rule China for the next decade. Vice
President  Xi Jinping  is forecast to get the top job as the
party’s general secretary, while some other posts on the
Politburo Standing Committee, now with nine members, have not
been settled. Wang has been on the 25-member Politburo since
after the last Congress in 2007, according to his official
biography.  Like President  Hu Jintao , whom Merkel met yesterday, Wang
hails from eastern Anhui province, where he served in the early
1980s as a top official in the Communist Party’s Youth League,
an organization headed by Hu from 1984-85.  Rises Through Ranks  After that post, Wang’s career took off. He became a vice
governor of Anhui -- also the home province of Executive Vice
Premier  Li Keqiang , who is expected to succeed Wen as premier --
where he served through 1999. That year he moved to Beijing to
become vice director of the country’s planning commission. In
2005, he became the Communist Party boss in the city of
Chongqing, moving to the Guangdong post and the Politburo seat
in late 2007.  Merkel’s meeting with Wang is interesting because he’s a
promising candidate for the Standing Committee, a German
government official told reporters on condition of anonymity
because he wasn’t authorized to speak about the matter publicly.  Joerg Wuttke, the former head of the European Chamber of
Commerce in China, said Merkel is going to Guangzhou,
Guangdong’s capital, because of the “big German presence” in
the city, which is also called Canton.  Guangdong Changes  “She’s obviously interested in how Guangdong wants to
reform itself,” Wuttke said, pointing out that  Germany  faced
similar challenges in transforming the Ruhr industrial region
and East Germany.  Merkel arrived in  Guangzhou  yesterday, where she and Wen
toured a Herrenknecht AG tunneling machine factory. Volkswagen
AG Chief Executive Officer  Martin Winterkorn , Siemens AG Chief
Executive Officer  Peter Loescher , and Lenovo Group Ltd. Chairman
 Yang Yuanqing  were among executives attending business forum
with Merkel and Wen.  Wen reiterated comments he made on Feb. 2 that China was
willing to cooperate with  Europe  to overcome the financial
crisis.  “Some people say this means China wants to buy Europe,”
Wen said at the forum. “China doesn’t have this intention and
doesn’t have this ability.”  Merkel’s visit may be a signal to party cadres that Wang
has the support of top leaders for a higher position, said Wu
Guoguang, a China specialist and professor of political science
and history at the University of Victoria in British Columbia
who has authored 20 books.  This visit “would help to highlight Wang Yang’s important
position, thus would give a hint to party cadres to think that
they should support Wang in public opinions and, at the future
Party Congress, vote for him as he is a favorite of the supreme
leadership,” Wu said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  