-- Soybean Traders Most Bullish This Year on South American Weather
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n   a n d   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 2012-02-03T16:03:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/soybean-traders-most-bullish-this-year-on-south-american-weather.html
Soybean traders are the most bullish
this year on speculation that hot, dry weather in  South America 
will curb production and boost oilseed demand from the U.S.  Eighteen of 28 surveyed by Bloomberg expect prices to gain
next week, the highest proportion since Dec. 30. Prices will be
5.5 percent higher in three months because of lower output,
Damien Courvalin, an analyst at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., wrote
yesterday in a report. The  U.S. Department of Agriculture  will
release estimates for South American crops on Feb. 9.  Goldman is predicting a rebound this year after prices slid
14 percent in 2011 on speculation global demand would wane amid
slowing growth. The La Nina phenomenon that causes heavier
rainfall in  Asia  and drier weather in South America led Rabobank
International to forecast this week that  Argentina ’s output in
the 2011-12 season will be the lowest in three years. The bank
expects production to drop 5.3 percent this year and anticipates
a second consecutive shortage in the 2012-13 season.  “The drop in South American production will put more
pressure on U.S. exports,” said Erin FitzPatrick, an analyst at
Rabobank in London, who forecast soybean prices would average
$12.25 a bushel in the second quarter of 2012. Dry weather will
cut production “because of yield loss,” even as the area
harvested increases, she said.  Soybeans Lag  Soybeans gained 1.2 percent to $12.2225 a bushel on the
Chicago Board of Trade this year. That compares with a 2.6
percent advance in the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Total Return Index
of 24 commodities and the 8.4 percent gain in the MSCI All
Country World Index of equities. Treasuries returned 0.3
percent, a Bank of America Corp. index shows.  Brazil , the U.S. and Argentina are the biggest exporters of
soybeans, used to make vegetable oil and livestock feed. The dry
weather caused by a La Nina system has caused “irreversible
crop damage” in Argentina, Hamburg-based oilseed researcher Oil
World said on Jan. 31. The situation is “very critical” for at
least half of the country’s soybean area, and crop prospects
have deteriorated in the Brazilian states of  Rio Grande  do Sul
and Parana, it said.  The USDA last month cut its forecast for world production
to 257 million metric tons. That compares with a record output
of 264.18 million tons in the previous year. Global inventories
of the oilseed on Sept. 30 will be 63.43 million tons, down from
64.54 million forecast in December, the department said.  Gold Gains  Traders also anticipate gains in corn and gold next week
and declines in copper and sugar, the surveys showed.  The  Federal Reserve  last week pledged to keep  interest
rates  low until late 2014 and Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said he’s
considering additional bond purchases to boost growth. While
commodities may pare gains made already this year, prices will
“bottom out” in the second quarter, JPMorgan Chase & Co. wrote
in a report dated Feb. 1.  “Any whisper of quantitative easing is going to create
better demand for commodities,” said Walter ‘Bucky’ Hellwig,
who helps manage $17 billion of assets at BB&T Wealth Management
in Birmingham,  Alabama . “We have a long-term bullish factor --
that the global growth will resume at some point.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nicholas Larkin  in  London  at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net ;
Tony C. Dreibus in London at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 