-- Spain Coaxes Banks to Merge as Extra Year Given to Purge Property Losses
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y   a n d   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2012-02-03T16:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/spain-coaxes-banks-to-merge-as-extra-time-given-to-purge-losses.html
Spain ’s new government gave banks an
extra year to recognize losses if they agree to merge, as it
tries to overhaul the financial industry crippled by the
collapse of the nation’s property boom four years ago.  Banks have a year to make 50 billion euros ($66 billion) of
provisions against real-estate assets, according to a decree
passed by the Cabinet today. If they agree by the end of May to
merge, they get a further 12 months to take the charges and can
tap the state’s bank-bailout facility for funds.  Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy , in power since December, is
trying to restore the flow of credit to Spain’s shrinking
economy and improve confidence in lenders saddled with 175
billion euros of troubled real-estate assets. The government
wants to remove doubts about the way assets are valued to
enhance banks’ access to financing while shrinking the oversized
industry.  “By improving the transparency and the perception of
strength of Spanish banks, they will be able to finance
themselves better, and that is going to allow them to make
loans,” Economy Minister Luis de Guindos said late  yesterday  in
Madrid.  Troubled Assets  The government will make banks increase the ratio of
 provisions  set aside for land to 80 percent from 31 percent, de
Guindos said. For unfinished developments, the provisioning
level will rise to 65 percent from 27 percent and to 35 percent
for assets including finished developments and houses.  Banco Santander (SAN)  SA, Spain’s biggest bank, may have to
provision an additional 2.7 billion euros to meet the new rules,
Nomura International Plc said in a report today. Banco  Bilbao
Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA)  may need to set aside another 2.6 billion
euros and the figure for  Bankia SA (BKIA) , formed from the merger of
seven savings banks, may amount to 5.3 billion euros, Nomura
said. Bankia is about half the size of BBVA by assets and a
quarter the size of Santander. Santander and BBVA haven’t said
how the measures will affect them, and Bankia said yesterday it
would meet the new rules without public help.  “The banks are going to argue that they don’t have enough
time but the government is right to force them because there are
some zombies out there,” Inigo Lecubarri, who helps manage
about $300 million at Abaco Financials Fund in  London , said in a
phone interview. “There’s no question that this is going to be
burdensome for the banks but frankly they’ve had plenty of time
already and we need to get some action here.”  Buffers  The 50 billion euros total figure includes 25 billion euros
of provisions to be taken against earnings. Banks that merge can
take the charges against capital instead of profits.  Another 15 billion-euro capital “buffer” will be built
for land and unfinished developments. The remaining 10 billion
euros will come from a 7 percent provision against healthy
developer loans, charged against earnings.  De Guindos said the plan won’t affect the  budget deficit ,
which the government is trying to narrow with measures including
wage freezes and tax hikes. Still, the Treasury will sell debt
to increase the equity of the bank-bailout fund, known as the
FROB, to 15 billion euros from 9 billion euros.  Banks that agree to merge will be able to sell contingent
convertible bonds to the  FROB , de Guindos said. The FROB will
buy the bonds at market prices, and the yield hasn’t been set
yet, said a spokesman for the Economy Ministry today, who
declined to be named in line with government policy.  The bonds, known as CoCos, convert into equity if capital
ratios fall below a certain level. The FROB has the capacity to
borrow as much as 90 billion euros and the debt it sells counts
as Spanish public borrowing.  Yields Fall  Spain’s 10-year bond yields rose to 4.987 percent today
from 4.932 percent yesterday. Spain’s public debt amounts to
about 67 percent of gross domestic product, according to the
previous government’s forecasts, below the euro-region average.  The 50 billion euros in new charges compares with 66
billion euros of provisions taken by banks between 2008 and June
2011 to cover specific loan risks, according to the ministry.
 CaixaBank SA (CABK)  Chairman Isidro Faine estimates banks in Spain
generated pre-provision income of 24 billion euros in 2011.  While the move creates a “significant additional buffer,”
more provisions may still be needed if Spain remains in a
recession, Daragh Quinn, Nomura’s Spanish banks analyst, said in
the report. The  International Monetary Fund  sees Spain’s economy
shrinking 1.7 percent this year and 0.3 percent in 2013.  “Shareholders of the pure domestic banks face, one way or
the other and to varying degrees, the risk of material dilution
in light of the new regulation,” Santiago Lopez, an analyst at
Exane BNP Paribas SA, said in a research note today.  Bank Shares  Shares in Santander, which has most of its business outside
Spain, rose 1.9 percent and BBVA climbed 0.9 percent at 5 p.m.
in Madrid. Bankia slipped 0.9 percent and  Banco Popular Espanol
SA (POP) , which focuses on Iberia, fell 0.02 percent.  The measures by the new government follow a series of
attempts by the former Socialist administration to strengthen
banks and restore lending. In 2008, the government started
buying assets from banks such as mortgage-backed securities.  In 2009, it created the FROB, which spent about 10 billion
euros buying preference shares in lenders it encouraged to
merge. It then increased  capital requirements  for banks last
year while coaxing unlisted lenders onto the stock market and
changed the rules of the FROB so that it would buy ordinary
shares with  voting rights  in the lenders it rescued.  “The years of denial seem to have come at least partially
to an end, and gradually, institutions might be forced to align
their balance sheets with market reality,” Exane’s Lopez said.  Rajoy, who leads the pro-business People’s Party, had
considered creating a so-called bad bank to buy toxic real-
estate assets from lenders, two people familiar with the
situation said in November, even as he pledged during the
campaign not to use taxpayers’ money for banks. He also rejected
using the euro region’s bailout funds for the overhaul.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charles Penty in  Madrid  at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  