-- Sri Lanka Unexpectedly Raises Rates as Best Growth Since ’70s Spurs Credit
-- B y   A n u s h a   O n d a a t j i e
-- 2012-02-03T10:02:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/sri-lanka-central-bank-s-cabraal-raises-interest-rates-by-50-basis-points.html
Sri Lanka  unexpectedly raised
 interest rates  to contain credit growth and inflation after the
island’s economy expanded the most since at least the 1970s
following the end of its decades-long civil war.  The  Central Bank of Sri Lanka  raised the  reverse repurchase 
rate to 9 percent from 8.5 percent and the  repurchase rate  to
7.5 percent from 7 percent, the Colombo-based bank said today.
All seven economists in a Bloomberg News survey predicted no
change. It was the first increase since 2007.  The move underscores central bank Governor Ajith Nivard Cabraal’s confidence that the nation is withstanding the threat
from  Europe ’s debt crisis, which has hurt global demand and
spurred policy makers from  Australia  to  Thailand  to lower
borrowing costs. Sri Lanka’s growth reached 8 percent in 2010
after the resolution of a 26-year civil war in May 2009 lured
investments in ports and power plants from countries including
 China ,  Japan  and  India .  “The trends we have seen in credit growth has been quite
substantial,” Cabraal said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television today. “There has been momentum which is building up
fairly strongly, and that’s good for the growth side. But from
the stability point of view we have been a little bit concerned
that it was growing a little too fast.”  Credit Growth  The benchmark Colombo All-Share Index of stocks slipped 0.3
percent at the close, while the Sri Lankan rupee weakened 0.2
percent to 114.10 per dollar after the central bank today
lowered the currency’s trading band.  Sri Lanka devalued the island’s rupee by 3 percent in
November to aid exports. Consumer prices in the capital,  Colombo ,
increased 3.8 percent January from a year earlier after gaining
4.9 percent in December.  “The central bank opted to raise rates as they wanted to
slow loan growth to get the right inflation and growth
equilibrium point,” Sanjeewa Fernando, an analyst at CT Smith
Stockbrokers Pvt. in Colombo, said after the decision. “This
will help cool demand-side pressures, reduce inflation
expectations and ease pressure on the exchange rate.”  Credit granted by commercial banks to the private sector
increased by 34.5 percent from a year earlier in December, which
“substantially” exceeded projections, the central bank said.  The authority aims to curtail import-related credit to
reduce the trade and current-account deficits, and ensure that
inflation remains at the “mid-single digit levels” in the
second half of 2012, it said today.  ‘Healthy Surplus’  “Inflation right now is under control, and we have been
encouraged by the trends that we have seen over the past six
months,” Cabraal said today. “But going forward, to the latter
part of this year and beyond, we do feel that the impact of very
big credit growth could have serious repercussions.”  The central bank has decided to direct commercial banks to
“moderate” credit disbursements, and monitor the targets for
foreign direct investment inflows regularly to enable a
“healthy surplus” in balance of payments in 2012, it said.  The  International Monetary Fund , which has disbursed $1.75
billion from a $2.6 billion program to boost the Sri Lankan
central bank’s reserves, said today it endorsed the decision to
raise rates and cool credit demand.  “There was a strong policy response,” Brian Aitken, the
IMF’s mission chief for Sri Lanka, said at a briefing in Colombo.
“We feel a more flexible  exchange rate  should be part of the
policy package.”  The nation has the “policy space” to manage its current-
account deficit, and the IMF is ready to make additional funds
available when a review of the economy’s performance against the
requirements of the loan agreement is completed, he said. While
the country wanted to continue with IMF programs, it had opted
not to take the balance of funds, Cabraal said this week.  The end of the civil war has helped lure investments from
companies including Shangri-La Asia Ltd. and the Sheraton Group.
The  Asian Development Bank  said this week it plans to lend Sri
Lanka $300 million in 2012 to fund public works, including roads,
power and water supply projects.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anusha Ondaatjie in Colombo at 
 anushao@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  