-- St. Jude’s Starks Looks to New Technologies to Bolster 2012 Sales Growth
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2012-02-03T21:18:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/st-jude-s-starks-looks-to-new-technologies-to-bolster-2012-sales-growth.html
St. Jude Medical Inc. (STJ) , maker of
devices to treat heart conditions, is betting on new
technologies this year to overcome weak demand for older medical
products, Chief Executive Officer Daniel Starks said.  St. Jude will start selling minimally invasive aortic  heart
valves  and an ablation device to treat hypertension in Europe by
the end of the year, Starks said. Analysts estimate the valve
market, now led by  Medtronic Inc. (MDT)  and  Edwards Lifesciences
Corp. (EW) , exceeds $2 billion a year, while the hypertension market
may top $25 billion,  St. Paul , Minnesota-based St. Jude said.  The focus on high-profit new products will help St. Jude
return to “high single-digit or low double-digit” sales gains
for the next five years, Starks said. The company said 2012
sales will increase 4 percent to 7 percent, less than the growth
posted at the turn of the century. The device maker generated
 revenue  of $5.6 billion in 2011, a 1 percent increase from a
year earlier.  “We have a plan that will return us to significantly
higher growth than we delivered this past year,” Starks said in
a telephone interview. “We are fanatic about targeting
opportunities where we can generate multiple billions in new
revenue but will still save those who are currently paying.”  St. Jude rose 1.6 percent to $42.51 at the close of trading
in New York.  Investor Presentations  The company is presenting its research and development
pipeline to investors and analysts today, emphasizing new
technology and recent products for cardiovascular disease, heart
rhythm management and brain stimulation. Cost cutting and
measures to streamline operations in 2011 and 2012 will save
more than $150 million next year, Starks said.  “They have a combination of new markets they are
developing on their own and bigger opportunities that may be in
areas that are also being developed rapidly by others,” said
Raj Denhoy, an analyst for Jefferies & Co. in  New York , in a
telephone interview. “St. Jude’s ability to play in those
markets and our understanding of how their technologies compare
are the questions at this point.”  St. Jude’s Fractional Flow Reserve technology, which helps
cardiologists pinpoint and treat blockages in the heart
arteries, has the potential to boost short-term growth, Denhoy
said. An independent monitoring board halted a study of the
technology last month, saying the product worked so well at
cutting the need for repeat hospitalization and retreatment that
all patients in the trial should receive it.  Resynchronize Heart  The company’s quadripolar system to resynchronize the heart
rhythm with a four electrode lead cuts the time to implant a
device, uses less radiation and prevents hospital readmissions,
Starks said. The technology, approved in November, will become
the standard of care, Starks said.  “The competition can’t follow us without putting out an
entirely new hardware platform,” he said. “We are years ahead
with a disruptive technology in the biggest cardiovascular
market.”  The company has had recent setbacks with its technology.
CardioMems Inc., which is partly owned by St. Jude, failed to
win a U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  panel’s backing to sell
a first-of-its-kind implant to monitor patients for signs of
heart failure in December.  ‘Fast Follower’  The company has been expanding its research for several
years and is becoming a complex business, said Thomas Gunderson,
a Piper Jaffray & Co. analyst based in  Minneapolis . While St.
Jude has been a “fast follower,” allowing others to do the
initial market development and coming in later with a rival
product, the company has now caught up, he said.  “They are in a lot of different areas,” Gunderson said.
“They may not always be the first, because that’s risky, but
they are starting to be a leader.”  Starks said one area that’s “huge” is treating the
sympathetic nerves outside the kidney artery walls to lower
 blood pressure . St. Jude has been working on the program for
three years, he said.  Minneapolis-based Medtronic sells a similar renal
denervation system in Europe. St. Jude sees itself as a pioneer,
not a follower, Starks said.  “We will be second to market in  Europe , but it’s a wide
open new market and we are neck and neck,” he said. The company
has new technology that’s a “St. Jude original,” Starks said.  New Sheaths  The approach uses new sheaths and a multi-electrode
catheter that is faster and easier to use, eliminating the need
to reposition the device during the procedure, said Frank Callaghan, president of the company’s cardiovascular division,
in a telephone interview.  St. Jude is also developing a device to closes holes in the
heart that can trigger strokes; a minimally invasive mitral
valve; and a tracking system for cardiologists working in the
heart that’s based on Israeli fighter jet technology, Starks
said. The tracking system enables doctors to view what they are
doing inside the heart in the same way that the global
positioning systems show drivers where they are on the road.  “They’ve got numerous shots on goal, which lowers the risk
portfolio from an investor standpoint,” Gunderson said.
“Usually the team with the most shots on goal wins.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 Rgale5@bloomberg.net  