-- Stanford Used ‘Slush Fund’ at SocGen for Bribes, Davis Testifies
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s   a n d   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-02-04T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/stanford-used-slush-fund-at-socgen-for-bribes-davis-testifies.html
R. Allen Stanford’s ex-finance chief
testified that the financier funneled millions of dollars
siphoned from investor deposits through a “slush fund” at
 Societe Generale SA (GLE)  in  Switzerland  to cover bribes, personal
expenses and private investments.  “It was a slush fund, just used for whatever the holder
wanted to use it for,” James M. Davis,  Stanford Financial Group 
Co.’s former chief financial officer, told a jury yesterday
about the SocGen account at Stanford’s criminal fraud trial.
“One purpose was to pull cash out to bribe the regulator in
Antigua, Mr.  Leroy King .”  Prosecutors contend Stanford diverted $2 billion from
customer deposits at his Antigua-based Stanford International
Bank to fund his luxurious lifestyle and money-losing ventures
such as Caribbean airlines and real-estate developments. More
than $40 million went to maintain Stanford’s yachts and as prize
money for a cricket tournament, according to records introduced
in the 10th day of Stanford’s trial in federal court in Houston.  Davis, 63, told jurors that by the end of 2007, $130
million had been transferred from the Antiguan bank to the
Stanford account at SocGen. “These funds came from CD
depositors,” he said.  When Assistant U.S. Attorney William Stellmach asked Davis
how much of this money Stanford ultimately paid back, Davis
replied, “I don’t believe he actually repaid any of the
money.”  Denies Wrongdoing  Stanford, 61, denies all wrongdoing in connection with what
the government claims was a $7 billion investment fraud scheme
built on bogus certificates of deposit at his Antiguan bank.
King, former chief executive officer of Antigua and Barbuda’s
Financial Services Regulatory Commission, is fighting
extradition to the U.S., where he was indicted in 2009 on
charges he accepted bribes from Stanford to mislead U.S.
securities regulators.  Davis said Stanford’s personal tax accountant decided the
financier would get more favorable tax treatment if Stanford
signed promissory notes for funds he borrowed from the bank. The
U.S.  Internal Revenue Service  was auditing Stanford at the time
to determine if the cash transfers should be treated as loans or
ordinary compensation.  Prosecutors showed jurors promissory notes Stanford signed
for hundreds of millions of dollars, as well as one Davis signed
in 2000 on behalf of Stanford Financial Group for $100 million.
Davis said the tax adviser had asked him sign for the company
“because it was difficult to get Mr. Stanford’s time to sit
down and sign the notes.”  ‘Bookkeeping Flip’  Davis walked jurors through a flow chart sketched on a
large pad that illustrated the movement of $132 million in
depositor funds to Stanford through a venture capital fund he
controlled. At some point, funds were shown flowing back from
Stanford to the Antiguan bank, with a value of $327 million.  “That was not actual cash” going back to the bank from
Stanford, Davis testified. It was a “bookkeeping flip,”
designed to make IRS auditors think Stanford was servicing his
promissory notes, Davis said.  When Stanford was informed of the accounting maneuver, he
“stuck out his hand and said, ‘Great job,’” Davis said.  Davis told jurors Stanford gave King at least $10,000 to
$15,000 in cash every quarter, as well as tickets to the
National Football League Super Bowl championship games in 2005
and 2009, to prevent government examiners from probing the
bank’s investment portfolio.  Inflated Totals  Davis said that for years he supplied inflated totals for
the bank’s investment accounts to Antiguan regulators to
disguise the gap between the bank’s actual assets and its
reported assets. In October 2008, when one island examiner
demanded supporting documents for accounts listed in the bank’s
portfolio, Davis said Stanford ordered him to create fake
account statements that verified the false totals. When Davis
accidentally put the wrong dates on the fake statements,
Stanford sent a private jet to pick up the corrected paperwork.  In June 2005, Davis said King gave Stanford a copy of a
confidential letter from the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission, asking Antiguan banking authorities for help
investigating Stanford’s bank for possible fraud. Davis said
Stanford and a company lawyer drafted King’s reply to the SEC,
which falsely assured the American regulators that Stanford’s
bank was clean.  The case is U.S. v. Stanford, 4:09-cr-00342, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  Texas  (Houston).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com ;
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  