-- State Street Is ’Re-Risking’ Emerging Markets, Lacaille Says
-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 2012-02-03T11:46:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/state-street-is-re-risking-emerging-markets-lacaille-says.html
Fund managers are abandoning their
bearish outlook and “re-risking” capital in  Russia  and other
emerging markets where stocks are cheaper than in developed
nations, said Richard Lacaille, chief investment officer at
 State Street Global Advisors , which oversees $2.1 trillion.  “In terms of Russia, the valuations look cheap and we have
been overweight in our exposure because of the cheapness,”
Lacaille said in an interview at Troika Dialog’s annual
investment conference in Moscow today. “We are very aware of
the risks and the fact that the cheapness stems from a number of
things.”  Lacaille, in his first visit to Russia in five years, said
State Street Global Advisors, based in Boston, has “several
billion” dollars of client funds invested in Russian equities
through “active and passive” investing strategies. “Russia is
not a specific unique story,” he said. “It’s part of the
overall re-risking coming back on.”  Russian stocks are the least expensive of the BRIC
countries, with the 30 stocks in the benchmark Micex Index
trading at 5.7 times earnings. That compares with a ratio of 16
for  India , 12.2 for  China  and 10.6 for
Brazil, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The Micex was little
changed today at 1,541.93, near the highest level since
September, at 3:38 p.m. in Moscow.  Russia can close the “cheapness” gap more quickly if it
takes more aggressive measures to address investor complaints on
issues such as corruption and excessive bureaucracy, Lacaille
said. The government should overhaul the pension system, its
corporate governance rules and improve its markets institutions
”simultaneously,” he said.  Addressing the “perception and the reality of
corruption,” as Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  has been doing in
his campaign to return to the presidency, are “very important”
for closing the valuation gap between Russia and other  emerging
markets , Lacaille said. Putin is seeking to return to the
Kremlin after four years as premier in elections March 4.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  