-- Strip-Club Spending Ban a Target of Lawmakers’ Message Politics
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2012-02-03T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/strip-club-spending-ban-a-target-of-lawmakers-message-politics.html
The U.S. House has a message for
voters who want to cut spending: It passed a bill repealing a
long-term health care program that theObama administration had
already dropped, and would bar welfare recipients from spending
their benefits in strip clubs and casinos.  The Senate is reaching out to voters who think Congress
doesn’t play by the rules, passing a measure prohibiting
lawmakers from making stock trades based on non-public
information, though  insider trading  is illegal.  These bills are a glimpse of the year ahead as party
leaders battling for House and Senate control in the November
election seek political gain from each piece of legislation.
Though last year’s gridlock led to record-low public approval
ratings for Congress, broad policy changes will be minimal in
2012 as lawmakers instead try to appeal to voters with small
gestures or by painting stark party differences.  “In 2012, nobody should have high hopes, other than a few
things that have to get done,” said Senator Richard Burr, a
North Carolina Republican. “The likelihood is that everything
will be set up not for the finality of an issue, but for the
purposes of messaging about who stands where on every given
thing.”  The practice has its costs. U.S. taxpayers will spend $94.2
million this year on the salaries of all members of the House
and Senate. On a per-day basis, that works out to $1,598 paid to
individual House members for each of the 109 days the House is
scheduled to work this year. In the Senate, which has scheduled
187 days of work, it comes out to $933 a day.  Debate Time  Considering bills that won’t become law also chews up
debate time. In 2011 the House was in session 175 days, while
the Senate worked 170 days.  Such bills are a matter of course in Congress, where party
leaders who control the agenda engage in a blend of policy
making and political strategy to protect their influence. They
often let the scales tip heavily to politics as presidential and
congressional elections near.  “No one should be surprised this is going on,” said
former Representative Martin Frost of  Texas , who served in the
House from 1978 to 2005 and once shaped party election strategy
as head of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee.  Messaging to voters doesn’t always crowd out policy making.
In 2008, the last presidential election year, Democrats
controlled both chambers during the financial crisis. Congress
enacted a $700 billion bailout plan, $600 individual tax rebates
to help stimulate the economy, and a five-year, $289 billion
farm bill. With split control of the House and Senate this year,
though, few anticipate a replay of serious policy legislation.  ‘Congress as Playhouse’  “This is Congress as playhouse, not Congress as
legislative powerhouse,” said  John Pitney , a political
scientist at  Claremont McKenna College  in  California . “They
symbolically affirm their commitment to certain issues that
concern the public, but they don’t add very much to the laws on
the books.”  That scenario is playing out early this election year. Both
chambers last week took symbolic votes on President Barack Obama’s request for a $1.2 trillion increase in the nation’s
debt limit.  The votes gave Republicans in both chambers a chance to
blame the Obama administration for the rising government debt.
Still, lawmakers couldn’t prevent an increase in borrowing
because Congress last year gave the president the ability to
lift the debt ceiling on his own.  Long-Term Care  This week in the House, a measure to repeal the long-term
care program let Republicans vote against a portion of Obama’s
2010 health care overhaul while many candidates in their party
are campaigning to undo the law.  The vote didn’t change anything, as the government said in
October it was suspending the program because it couldn’t make
the effort financially viable. Republicans say they’re concerned
the program could be resurrected.  The House this week passed other bills appealing to voters
who favor tax cuts and reduced spending. A plan for budget
process changes would give greater weight to tax cuts’ potential
to boost revenue and help reduce budget shortfalls. The House
targeted welfare recipients in a bill passed Feb. 1 that would
stop them from cashing in debit-card benefits at liquor stores,
casinos and strip clubs.  Pay Raises  The House voted to deny a cost-of-living raise to federal
government workers for a third straight year, while freezing the
pay of members of Congress. The bill was introduced by
Representative  Sean Duffy , a Wisconsin Republican who faces a
close re-election race, at a time when Obama is pressing for a
0.5 percent raise for federal workers.  In the Senate, which is controlled by Democrats, Majority
Leader  Harry Reid  has no intention of advancing any of these
measures, said his spokesman, Adam Jentleson.  “These things are going to come to a full stop in the
Senate,” said Representative  Chris Van Hollen , a Maryland
Democrat. “What you have for the most part is show-horse
legislation that will die in the Senate, rather than workhorse
legislation that addresses the economy and jobs.”  Still, Senate Democratic leaders won’t be outdone.  On Jan. 30 they had three senators up for re-election in
November speak to reporters about the insider-trading bill. The
bill clarifies that members of Congress and their staffs can’t
trade securities, commodities and futures based on non-public
information, and boosts disclosure requirements for trades.  Record-Low Ratings  Democratic Senator Kirsten Gillibrand of  New York 
acknowledged there is little data to support claims of abuse by
lawmakers. She said the bill will help assuage voters at a time
of record-low approval ratings for lawmakers in both parties.  “I think you need to instill confidence that we play by
the same rules, and that’s why I believe it’s so important,”
said Gillibrand, who was joined on a press conference call by
Senator  Debbie Stabenow  of  Michigan  and Senator Jon Tester of
 Montana .  Following a year in which Congress took the federal
government to the brink of a shutdown four times, just 13
percent of the public approved of the job lawmakers are doing
and 80 percent disapproved, according to a Jan. 22-24 NBC-Wall
Street Journal poll of 1,000 adults. A CBS News-New York Times
poll of 1,154 adults, taken Jan. 12-17, showed 19 percent
approved of congressional Republicans and 26 percent approved of
Democrats.  Lack of Results  Ultimately, there’s a disconnect between the low approval
ratings and how Congress spends its time, because the public’s
view is driven by cynicism over the lack of results, said
Michael Dimock, research director at the  Pew Research Center , a
Washington-based nonpartisan group that studies public opinion.  “The polling we’ve seen suggests the public is very ready
to expect meaningless gestures from members,” Dimock said.
“The challenge to members is to show they can address the real
problems the public is concerned about.”  The Senate is reserving debate on such measures for later
in the year, when Democratic leaders plan to take up portions of
Obama’s tax agenda, including a tax increase for high earners,
although Republicans have blocked such proposals in the past.
Democrats also will return to parts of Obama’s $447 billion jobs
agenda that Republicans stalled in 2011.  That agenda will help the 16 incumbent Democratic senators
on the November ballot, said  Jennifer Duffy , Senate editor of
the nonpartisan Cook Political Report.  ‘In Their Favor’  “They get to make Republicans vote on bills they’d rather
not, and they get to set up Republicans as obstructionists,”
Duffy said. “It plays in their favor.”  House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, is working
on an agenda to help the more vulnerable among his members and
divide Democrats. With gas prices still high, he is pushing a
highway construction bill financed with money generated by oil
exploration, including in an Alaskan wildlife refuge where
drilling is opposed by many Democrats.  Only a handful of substantive measures may get through
Congress this year, Pitney said. He predicts that will include
an extension of a payroll tax cut and the annual appropriations
bills.  “The most the public can reasonably hope for is to avoid
another government shutdown,” Pitney said. “If the end of the
year rolls around and you can still enter a national park, it
will have been a success.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  