-- Citigroup, Discover Sued Over Student Loan Corp. Losses
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-02-03T23:15:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/student-loan-corp-sued-by-pension-fund-for-securities-fraud.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Discover Financial
Services (DFS)  and  Student Loan Corp. (STU)  were sued by a union pension
fund over claims that Student Loan Corp. misled investors about
increasing losses beginning in 2008.  The Oklahoma Firefighters Pension & Retirement System sued
the companies and several Student Loan Corp. officials in
federal court in  Manhattan  today, claiming it lost money when
the company’s stock price dropped after information about the
losses became public.  Student Loan Corp., formerly a unit of Citigroup, was sold
to Riverwoods, Illinois-based Discover in September 2010. The
pension fund seeks to represent all Student Loan Corp. investors
from Jan. 15, 2008, to Sept. 23, 2010. The company originated
and held student loans.  “At the same time STU was failing to properly account for
its mounting risks and losses, defendants issued materially
false and misleading statements regarding the company’s business
and financial results, by telling the investing public that it
was well positioned and performing well despite adverse market
conditions,” the pension fund said in its complaint.  Student Loan Corp. in September 2010 told the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission in a public filing that it
was taking a $900 million charge, just days after it announced
was being sold, according to the complaint. The lender became a
wholly-owned subsidiary of Discover on December 31, 2010.  “The suit is baseless and we will seek its prompt
dismissal,” said  Shannon Bell , a spokeswoman for New York-based
Citigroup, in an e-mail. Leslie Sutton, a spokeswoman for
Discover, declined to comment.  The case is Oklahoma Firefighters Pension & Retirement
System v. Student Loan Corp., 12-CV-895, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  