-- Sucampo Gains as Bowel Drug Shows Effectiveness in Study: Washington Mover
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2012-02-03T21:12:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/sucampo-gains-as-bowel-drug-shows-effectiveness-in-study-washington-mover.html
Sucampo Pharmaceuticals Inc. (SCMP)  surged
42 percent over two days after reporting that its experimental
medicine for opioid-induced bowel dysfunction met goals in a
late-stage clinical trial.  Sucampo climbed 16 percent to $6.24 as of the 4 p.m. in New
York trading. The shares of the Bethesda, Maryland-based company
had gained 23 percent yesterday after the trial results were
released.  The medicine, lubiprostone, met the primary goal of the
third and final stage of trials generally required for U.S.
marketing clearance, Sucampo and partner  Takeda (4502)  Pharmaceutical
Co. said yesterday in a statement. The companies plan to file
for U.S. marketing clearance in the first half of this year.  Lubiprostone would be the first prescription pill for
opioid-induced bowel dysfunction if approved, the companies
said. It’s designed for the treatment of patients with chronic
pain not related to cancer, excluding those taking methadone.  “OBD can be a painful and debilitating side effect
affecting many non-cancer pain patients taking opioids
chronically,” M. Mazen Jamal, a trial investigator, said in the
statement. Jamal is chief of endoscopy at the Long Beach
Veterans Affairs’ Medical Center in  California . “Many patients
are not getting the desired relief and there is a significant
need for a new medicine to treat this condition.”  More than 200 million prescriptions are written each year
for opioids in the U.S., Jamal said. “A substantial portion of
these prescriptions are for non-cancer chronic pain,” he said.  The 12-week trial evaluated spontaneous bowel movement
response rate in 439 patients. It found those on lubiprostone
had a rate of 27 percent, compared with 19 percent for those on
a placebo.  Lubiprostone is already approved for chronic constipation
in adults and irritable bowel syndrome with constipation in
women, marketed as Amitiza.  Sucampo is up 39 percent in the last 12 months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  