-- Super Bowl Scene: Tim Tebow, Drew Brees in Madden NFL Contest
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2012-02-03T17:02:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/super-bowl-scene-tim-tebow-drew-brees-antrel-rolle-in-madden-tournament.html
Watching six real football players
compete in a video game of the sport had its moments. It’s fun
to know  Tim Tebow  springs to his feet when he plays Madden NFL,
and that he feels comfortable playing in a purple tie and UGG
shoes.  On the other hand, for the 1,000 or so people gathered at
the  Electronic Arts (EA)  Sports Madden Bowl XVIII last night, it may
have been more fun just to hang out, drink Bud Light.  The tournament and party took place in a tent in downtown
Indianapolis set up as the event space for the Bud Light Hotel
next door. Guests entered through the hotel (a temporarily
rebranded Hampton Inn), walking past a mural composed of blue-
and-white bottle caps  The red carpet offered sightings of Matt Forte of the
 Chicago Bears  and Joe Thomas of the  Cleveland Browns .  In the tent, waitresses passed fried shrimp and Mexican
fare. Sandy Sandoval, head of athlete relations for Electronic
Arts Sports, tended to mezzanine guests sitting on shiny black
couches.  Tournament players sat in cushy black armchairs in the front
of the room, their backs turned to guests and below the stage
where the Roots and Nas played later.  Tebow of the  Denver Broncos  and Jimmy Graham and Drew Brees
of the  New Orleans Saints  played as the  Green Bay Packers 
against Hall of Famers Deion Sanders and Barry Sanders and
Warren Sapp, who played as the New Orleans Saints.  The Packers won.  On a Loveseat  While the awarding of a trophy got everyone’s attention, for
the most part the actual playing of the  video game  was like
really good background music at a party.  Brandon Marshall of the  Miami Dolphins  and his wife, Michi
Nogami-Marshall, sat on a loveseat in the mezzanine.  Do they play Madden together?  “No,” Marshall said laughing.  “We play almost every game together,” Nogami-Marshall
offered. “Cards, miniature golf, but as far as Madden goes, I
don’t play with him.”  Steve Johnson of the  Buffalo Bills  and his wife, Britney,
said they play Call of Duty: Modern Warfare.  “I used to give him a hard time about playing video games,
and then I started playing,” Britney Johnson said. “I feel
guilty.”  “She’s better than me,” her husband boasted as he put his
arm around her. “She knows how to hide out.”  “I like it because it feels like we’re on a mission
together,” she said.  “Yeah, we play with the lights off,” he added.  ‘So Realistic’  On the main floor, Sarah Blanchard, a dental student at
 Indiana University , explained why she likes watching her
boyfriend, Mark Anderko, a fellow dental student and a comedian,
play Madden.  “He played in the Colts stadium and it looked just like it,”
Blanchard said. “I’m not much of a gamer, but this was so
realistic it made me want to try.”  “I’m not good at it,” said New York Giants safety Antrel Rolle, dressed in a leather coat by Elevee. “I don’t spend a lot
of time playing video games. I’m more of a movie watcher --
comedy, drama.”  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  New York  at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 