-- Super Bowl Ticket Loser in Dallas is Winner in Indy
-- B y   M a r i o   P a r k e r
-- 2012-02-03T18:05:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/super-bowl-ticket-loser-in-dallas-becomes-winner-this-year-in-indianapolis.html
Dean Kepraios’s $3,500 ticket didn’t
get him into his seat at the  Super Bowl  last year. After a
refund and being invited to this year’s title game by the
 National Football League , he’s not complaining.  Kepraios, a 39-year-old human resources consultant from
Chicago, was among the 2,800 fans kept from their assigned seats
at  Cowboys Stadium  in Arlington,  Texas , for the 2011 Super Bowl
when safety inspectors refused to allow some temporary locations
to be used.  The NFL found a place for him at last year’s game by the
end of the first quarter, his ticket broker gave him his money
back, and he will be among the 246 fans at Lucas Oil Stadium in
Indianapolis on Feb. 5 to watch the  New York Giants  play the  New
England Patriots  as part of the NFL’s effort to correct the
mistakes of last year.  “It was worth it,” Kepraios said in an interview. “It
all worked out. We were made whole.”  The people who were delayed getting into last year’s title
game, won by the Green Bay Packers over the Pittsburgh Steelers,
or were moved were given the option of taking the face value of
the ticket or a pass to any future Super Bowl, according to NFL
spokesman  Brian McCarthy .  The NFL offered about 475 people who weren’t able to be
seated $2,400 -- triple the face value of the tickets -- plus
one free ticket to this year’s Super Bowl, or one to any future
championship game. They also would get airfare and four nights
lodging, a check for $5,000 or a check for more than that if
they can provide documented expenses, McCarthy said in an e-
mail.  This year, the NFL installed 254 temporary seats at Lucas
Oil Stadium, bringing capacity for the game to about 68,000,
McCarthy said. The league isn’t concerned about a similar
problem recurring this year.  Improving the Game  “We spend every off-season looking at how we can make the
Super Bowl better,” he said.  Jan Lamers, 53, a Packers shareholder from Appleton,
 Wisconsin , said in a telephone interview that she and her family
decided not to attend this year’s game after Eli Manning’s
Giants beat the Packers 37-20 in the second round of the
playoffs. She said she will wait and hope her team will reach
the title game next year, when it will be in New Orleans.  For Kepraios, a Chicago Bears fan, that wasn’t a factor.
His team lost to the Packers in the playoffs last season and
didn’t make the postseason this year. Rather, it’s because the
game is a three-hour drive from Chicago.  “Indianapolis is close enough,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mario Parker in  Chicago  at 
 mparker22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  