-- Super Bowl: Last Play Is Anyone’s Guess
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-02-04T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/super-bowl-timetable-kickoff-is-at-6-29-pm-final-play-is-anyone-s-guess.html
Teams and fans are preparing for the
long haul with the sports and television spectacle that will be
the  Super Bowl  rematch between the  New York Giants  and  New
England Patriots .  The average length of Super Bowl broadcasts has been 3
hours, 35 minutes over the past two decades, according to
Nielsen Holdings NV. That’s about a half-hour longer than the
 National Football League ’s broadcasters allot for games during
the regular season.  The championship, which has evolved into the most-watched
television event in the U.S., draws advertisers and viewers not
normally associated with football, helped in part by a celebrity
halftime show and original advertisements that draw their own
media attention.  Madonna will perform during halftime of the Feb. 5 game at
Lucas Oil Stadium in Indianapolis in an intermission extended to
30 minutes from the regular-season norm of 12, and a record
television audience might tune in for at least part of the game.
More than 111 million people watched the  Green Bay Packers ’ win
over the Pittsburgh Steelers last year, the biggest audience in
U.S. television history.  Bill Belichick , who has coached the Patriots to three Super
Bowl wins and a 2008 championship loss to the Giants, said
yesterday that he simulated the lengthened halftime during
practice to help his players get used to the change in routine.  “It gets into a whole restarting mentality,” Belichick
said at a news conference. “It’s not like taking a break and
coming out in the second half. It’s like starting the game all
over again. It’s like playing a game, stopping, and then playing
a second game, a double-header in baseball, if you will.”  World Series  With the contest set to begin at 6:29 p.m. local time, at
least it won’t imitate the later start times of Major League
Baseball’s  World Series  and other major sporting events,
according to Brad Adgate, head of research at New York-based
Horizon Media Inc.  “The NFL is very prudent to have this game start at 6:30
so that it can keep the younger viewers watching the game and
engaged in the NFL,” Adgate said in a telephone interview.
“The other major sports don’t do that.”  The Giants upset the Patriots 17-14 four years ago, ending
 New England ’s bid for a perfect season. That game broadcast
lasted 3:41, while the longest since 1992 was the 4:06 meeting
between the Patriots and the  Carolina Panthers  in 2004,
according to Nielsen.  NFL games average about 70 commercials both during the
regular season and in the Super Bowl. The average 30-second ad
for the title game sold for $3.5 million, according to Chris McCloskey, a spokesman for Comcast Corp.’s NBC, which will
telecast the game.  The one game-lengthening feature that the Super Bowl has
never had is overtime. The teams would go beyond the 60 minutes
of regulation play if the score is tied.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 