-- Swaps Climb Most in a Month on Rate Pause Bets: Santiago Mover
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2012-02-03T19:21:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/swaps-climb-most-in-a-month-on-rate-pause-bets-santiago-mover.html
Chilean  interest-rate   swaps  rose the
most in a month as traders reduced bets on lower borrowing costs
amid today’s surprise growth in U.S. payrolls and an unexpected
decline in unemployment in the Latin American country.  The two-year swap rate, or the cost of locking in a fixed
interest rate, rose seven basis points, or 0.07 percentage
point, to 4.62 percent as of 4:05 p.m. in Santiago. It earlier
reached 4.66 percent for the biggest intraday gain since Jan. 6.  Swap rates have reached three-month highs as traders
discount the possibility that the central bank will hold its
 benchmark rate  in February after unexpectedly lowering by a
quarter-point to 5 percent last month.  Unemployment (CHUETOTL)  is at the
lowest level in more than two years and a 10 percent jump in
December retail sales led to an increase in inflation forecasts.  “We’ve had a run of good news, including today’s payroll
numbers, annual inflation expectations are rising every day and
the central bank is running out of arguments to lower rates,”
said Christian Gomez, who trades swaps and inflation forwards at
Banco Santander Chile in Santiago. “The market is pricing in
4.5 percent at year-end when a week ago it was at 4 percent.”  U.S. payrolls rose 243,000 in January, more than the
forecast of any of the 89 economists in a Bloomberg survey.
Chilean unemployment fell to 6.6 percent in the three months
through December.  Forward levels for unidades de fomento,  Chile ’s inflation-
linked currency unit, show that traders now expect prices to
rise 3.13 percent this year, up from 2.97 percent a week ago.
Forwards are discounting 0.17 percent inflation in January.  The three-month swap rate today implies one rate cut of 25
basis points in the next three months instead of the two 25
basis point rate cuts it was implying, Gomez said.  Implied Inflation  Two-year breakeven inflation, a measure of the average pace
of price rises implied by swap rates, rose three basis points to
2.99 percent today compared with 2.87 percent a week ago.  Swaps traders are now pricing in a pause in February
followed by rate cuts in March and May, according to Alex Pigatto, a local markets trader at Nomura Securities Inc. in New
York.  Chile’s peso appreciated 0.3 percent to 478.86 per  U.S.
dollar , capping a sixth straight weekly gain.  Banco del Estado de Chile, repatriating proceeds from its
$500 million bond sale, may have been partly responsible for
yesterday’s 1.4 percent appreciation of the Chilean currency,
Pigatto wrote in an e-mail.  Sell Dollars  Mining companies tend to sell the dollars they get for
exports, and copper makes up half of Chile’s exports, in order
to raise pesos to meet paychecks. In the four years through
yesterday, the peso strengthened on average 0.12 percent on
Thursdays and depreciated on the other four days, according to
calculations by Bloomberg.  “The market has lost some momentum since the rally in the
last few days,” said Katia Diaz, an economist at 4Cast Inc. in
 New York . “We saw some major dollar supply from copper
companies, which often buy pesos on Thursdays. Now we’re coming
against a support level at 476 to 478 per dollar.”  The appreciation of the peso may lose momentum as it gets
back toward the 466 per dollar level that prompted the central
bank to start buying dollars last year, according to Pigatto and
Osvaldo Cruz, an economist at Banco de Credito & Inversiones in
Santiago.  Yields on inflation-linked and nominal bonds also rose
today. The yield on inflation-linked central bank bonds due Feb.
1, 2021, rose three basis points to 2.3 percent and the yield on
nominal bonds due the same day rose eight basis points to 5.14
percent. The yield on inflation-linked government debt due in
2017 rose 12 basis points to 2.19 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  