-- Swiss Agree to Transfer Encrypted Documents to U.S. Authorities
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 2012-02-03T09:57:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/swiss-agree-to-transfer-encrypted-documents-to-u-s-authorities.html
Switzerland agreed to transfer about
20,000 encrypted documents to authorities in the U.S. as the two
countries work toward settling a dispute over  tax evasion .  Switzerland may help decode the names should the two
nations find a comprehensive solution to the dispute, Roland Meier, a spokesman for the Swiss Finance Ministry, said in an e-
mailed response to questions from Bloomberg News.  The U.S. Department of Justice is investigating 11
financial institutions in Switzerland, including  Credit Suisse
Group AG (CSGN) , suspected of helping Americans hide money from the
 Internal Revenue Service . The U.S. and Switzerland are in talks
to resolve the probe of offshore tax evasion.  Seven financial firms, including Swiss banks and the local
units of foreign companies, handed over data, such as e-mails,
travel plans and details of internal procedures, to the U.S. by
the end of last month, Tages-Anzeiger reported today, without
saying where it got the information. Employee and customer names
were blacked out, the Zurich-based newspaper said.  Wegelin & Co., the 270-year-old private bank, became the
first Swiss lender to face criminal charges in a broadening U.S.
crackdown on offshore firms suspected of helping Americans evade
taxes.  Wegelin helped Americans hide more than $1.2 billion in
assets and evade U.S. taxes, according to an indictment filed
yesterday in federal court in  New York . The new charges expand
on earlier ones filed Jan. 3 against three bankers at Wegelin’s
Zurich branch accused of conspiring to help U.S. clients cheat
on their taxes.  Richard Strassberg , a lawyer who represents the bank in the
U.S., declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at   gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  