-- UBS, Credit Suisse Among Banks in Swiss Libor-Fixing Probe
-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 2012-02-03T11:29:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/switzerland-s-comco-opens-investigation-into-ubs-credit-suisse.html
UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  are
among 12 banks facing a Swiss inquest into possible manipulation
of the London interbank offered rate, the latest probe into how
the benchmark for $350 trillion of financial products is set.  “Collusion between derivative traders might have
influenced” Libor and its Japanese equivalent, Tibor, the Swiss
competition watchdog, Comco, said in an e-mailed statement
today. “Market conditions regarding derivative products based
on these reference rates might have been manipulated too.”  Comco said it opened the investigation after receiving an
application for its “leniency program,” which indicated that
traders from various banks might have influenced the rate. Libor
is set daily by the British Bankers’ Association based on data
from banks, which report how much it would cost them to borrow
from each other for various periods of time. Regulators in the
U.S., U.K. and European Union have been examining how Libor is
set, while Japan’s securities watchdog has probed Tibor.  “We are taking these investigations very seriously and are
fully cooperating with the authorities,” said Yves Kaufmann, a
spokesman for UBS in Zurich. UBS, the biggest Swiss bank, said
in July that it was granted conditional immunity from some
agencies, including the  U.S. Department of Justice .  A spokesman for Credit Suisse said the bank is “not in the
position” to comment at the moment.  ‘Influencing Rates’  Other banks under investigation include Bank of Tokyo-
Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd.,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co .,  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411) ,
Rabobank International,  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) ,
Societe Generale SA and  Sumitomo Mitsui  Banking Corp., according
to the statement. “Other financial intermediaries” are also
subject to the investigation, Comco said.  Press officers for Deutsche Bank, Mizuho, Bank of  Tokyo ,
JPMorgan and HSBC declined to comment. Spokespeople for Sumitomo
Mitsui, RBS and Citigroup couldn’t immediately comment. Rabobank
spokesman Hendrik Jan Eijpe said he couldn’t comment as the
Dutch lender hasn’t yet received any communication from the
Swiss competition commission.  “ Societe Generale (GLE)  is part of a number of panels which
determine interbank rates,” the Paris-based bank said in a
statement read over the phone by spokeswoman Saphia Gaouaoui.
“The bank is prepared to respond to any enquiry from relevant
authorities on any information they should wish to obtain.”  Derivative traders working at various financial
institutions might have manipulated Libor and Tibor submissions
by “coordinating their behavior, thereby influencing these
reference rates in their favor,” the watchdog said. “Derivative
traders might have colluded to manipulate the difference between
the ask price and the bid price of derivatives based on these
reference rates to the detriment of their clients.”  Request for Information  The involved banks were sent a letter yesterday with a
request for information on the alleged collusion, Thomas
Nydegger, an official at Comco dealing with competition in
services industries, said by telephone. The banks were given a
deadline of the beginning of March, which may be extended if
needed, he said.  Comco aims to assess the effects of the alleged practices
on Swiss clients and companies, Nydegger said, adding that there
is no legal basis for cooperation between authorities in
different countries on such investigations. The probe may take
more than a year to conclude, he said.  Banks including RBS, Barclays Plc and HSBC were asked last
year to supply information to U.S. and European regulators
investigating whether Libor was manipulated.  ‘Intensifying Scrutiny’  European Commission regulators also raided banks that offer
financial derivatives linked to the euro interbank offered rate,
or Euribor, over possible collusion. Deutsche Bank and RBS were
visited by EU officials, two people said in October.  EU regulators are “intensifying our antitrust scrutiny on
wholesale financial markets,” EU Competition Commissioner
 Joaquin Almunia  said last month. “Preserving competition in
this domain is of utmost importance and we will live up to our
responsibilities in this regard.”  Antoine Colombani, a spokesman for the European Commission
in Brussels, declined to comment on the Swiss investigation.  “Last October we carried out unannounced inspections at
the premises of a number of undertakings active in the sector of
euro interest rate derivatives based on Euribor benchmark
rates,” he said in an e-mail. “At this stage no formal
investigation has been opened.”  Japan ’s banking regulator declines to comment on the
actions of foreign authorities, said Toshiharu Mashita, a
spokesman for the country’s Financial Services Agency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  