-- U.K. Services Index Reaches 10-Month High as Orders Rise, Confidence Gains
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2012-02-03T10:16:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/u-k-services-index-reaches-10-month-high-as-orders-rise-confidence-gains.html
A U.K.  services index  unexpectedly
rose to a 10-month high in January as new orders increased and
business confidence improved, a survey showed.  A gauge of services activity based on the survey of
 purchasing managers  rose to 56 from 54 in December, Markit
Economics and the Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply
said today in  London . A measure above 50 indicates expansion.
The median forecast of 28 economists surveyed by Bloomberg was
for a drop to 53.3.  While the U.K.  economy contracted  in the fourth quarter,
recent data have shown some signs of improvement.  Bank of
England  policy maker  Adam Posen  said in an interview yesterday
that while there was still a case for the bank to add stimulus,
he was “slightly more optimistic” than a few months ago. A
report by Markit earlier this week showed that manufacturing
unexpectedly returned to growth in January.  “A slide back into recession is now looking increasingly
unlikely,”  Chris Williamson , chief economist at Markit, said in
the statement. “Much uncertainty persists, but this is
nevertheless a far better start to 2012 than almost all were
expecting to see.”  Business confidence gained the most in January since
records began in 1996, today’s report showed. New business
volumes increased the most since July.  ‘Looking More Hopeful’  Today’s report “provides further evidence that the
economic recovery is regaining momentum,” said  Vicky Redwood ,
an economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in London. “It is
looking more hopeful that the economy will expand in the first
quarter and therefore temporarily avoid a technical recession.”  BT Group Plc, the U.K.’s largest Internet service provider,
said today that third-quarter operating profit climbed 3 percent
as it gained more broadband subscribers.  The improvement in business confidence echoes a report by
GdK NOP released on Jan. 31, which showed that  consumer
confidence  rose to the highest in seven months in January as
slowing inflation eased pressure on shoppers.  Nevertheless, Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  said
last week that the recovery is likely to be “long and uneven”
and that policy makers can increase stimulus if needed to guard
against a “renewed severe downturn.” The U.K. economy
contracted 0.2 percent in the fourth quarter, as the debt crisis
in the euro area and the biggest fiscal squeeze since World War
II dented confidence.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  