-- U.K. Energy Secretary Huhne Is Charged Over Lying About Speeding Ticket
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2012-02-03T10:44:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/u-k-energy-secretary-huhne-is-charged-over-lying-about-speeding-ticket.html
Energy Secretary  Chris Huhne  became
the first serving British Cabinet minister to be charged with a
serious criminal offense in modern times, after his ex-wife
accused him of lying about a speeding ticket nine years ago.  Prosecutors have “sufficient evidence to bring criminal
charges” against Huhne and his ex-wife, Vicky Pryce, of
perverting the course of justice, the director of public
prosecutions, Keir Starmer, said in a televised statement in
London today. Huhne’s party leader, Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg , indicated last week he expected the minister to resign if
charged.  “I can’t think of a comparable case in British politics
where a Cabinet minister is charged by the police for an offense
for which they potentially face jail if convicted,”  Philip Cowley , professor of politics at Nottingham University, said in
a telephone interview.  The energy secretary is one of five Cabinet members from
the Liberal Democrats in  David Cameron ’s Conservative-led
coalition. If he quits, it may open the way for the return to
the government of  David Laws , the Lib Dem who stepped down as
chief secretary to the Treasury after less than three weeks in
the job in 2010.  Huhne is accused of lying to police to say that Pryce, his
then wife, had been driving his car in 2003 when it was caught
speeding so that he wouldn’t get a ticket and lose his license,
prosecutors said.  “The essence of the charges is that between March and May
2003, Mr. Huhne, having allegedly committed a speeding offence,
falsely informed the investigating authorities that Ms. Pryce
had been the driver of the vehicle in question, and she falsely
accepted that she was the driver,” Starmer said. Police in the
eastern English county of Essex opened a probe last year into
the allegations.  “In the event of somebody being charged with a criminal
offense, they would have to leave the government,” Clegg told
BBC television’s “Andrew Marr Show” on Jan. 22. “That has
been what’s happened in the past.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Hutton in  London  at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  