-- U.K.’s Climate Plan May Risk Heating-Cost Surge in Cold Snaps
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e   a n d   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2012-02-03T15:57:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/u-k-climate-plan-may-risk-heating-cost-surge-in-cold-snaps.html
The U.K. faces an additional burden
in energy costs from plans to switch to electricity in home
heating from natural gas, according to National Grid Plc.  The government, chasing a target to cut  carbon emissions  to
80 percent below 1990 levels by 2050, may push to heat almost
all U.K. homes using electricity by that date, Marcus Stewart,
future distribution networks manager at National Grid in
Warwick, England, said in an e-mail yesterday. Currently, about
80 percent of the country’s homes are heated by gas.  “There needs to be a balance between electricity and gas
to meet heat demand,” Stewart said. “Moving from one to the
other is not economic, whereas a balanced approach can still hit
the CO2 target.” Otherwise, the U.K. would need to invest in
more stand-by power generation and transmission cables to
support electricity-based heating, especially during cold snaps,
he said.  The move, which is still under consideration, would require
the U.K. to triple the capacity of its  power grid , according to
CNG Services Ltd., a consulting company. The strain on the
electricity grid will probably increase as the nation raises
power generation from wind farms that only generate in blustery
conditions and so also require back up supplies.  Electricity can be less harmful to the climate than gas if
sourced from generation such as nuclear or renewables. Burning
gas produces about half the heat-trapping emissions as coal,
while renewables and nuclear produce almost no CO2.  Heat Pumps  The U.K. government plans to publish its heat strategy this
year, an official at the Department for Energy and Climate
Change said today by telephone, declining to be identified
citing government policy. Various methods, including electric
heating and using biomethane in gas pipelines, will be included
as means of cutting emissions, he said.  Heat pumps use electricity to transfer thermal energy from
the ground, air or water to provide warmth. Such pumps are used
in the Nordic region, where the cold climate boosts the
incentive to spend on a system to keep energy consumption low,
according to Tom Rowlands-Rees, an analyst at Bloomberg New
Energy Finance in  London .  “They are less efficient during cold snaps but they do
still work and they do work well,” Rowlands-Rees said yesterday
by telephone. “Throughout the year you’ll still have a more
efficient heating system and it will save on heating costs.”  ‘Spending Transfer Needed’  Air source heat pumps have a co-efficient of performance of
above 2 at minus 7 degrees, he said, citing Worcester Bosch data
from the Center of Alternative Technology. That means at those
temperatures, they provide as much warmth per unit of energy as
natural gas. “It’s only when that number drops below 2 that it
becomes illogical,” Rowlands-Rees says.  Freezing conditions in the U.K. yesterday boosted natural
gas demand to the highest it’s been in more than a year.
Temperatures are forecast to drop to as low as minus 8 degrees
Celsius (18 Fahrenheit) in London on Feb. 8, which is 10 degrees
below the 30-year average, CustomWeather Inc. data on Bloomberg
show.  “It’s madness to give up using the gas grid during the
coldest weather because doing that would require a tripling of
the electricity grid’s capacity,” John Baldwin, managing
director of  CNG Services Ltd.  said in a telephone interview
yesterday. “We can’t afford to throw 70 billion pounds ($111
billion) of investment in the gas grid and building heating
equipment in the garbage skip.”  Home Insulation  The U.K. should transfer some of its planned spending that
will subsidize new power generation to insulate houses, a much
more cost effective way to meet carbon targets, said Baldwin,
who formerly helped oversee development of the nation’s gas grid
at Transco, which was purchased by National Grid in 2002.  Britain has pledged to boost investment in insulation and
loft lagging via its so-called Green Deal and impose targets on
utilities for  energy efficiency  measures through its Energy
Company Obligation.  Often, freezing temperatures are accompanied by low levels
of wind, Baldwin said. Yesterday at 4:30 p.m., wind was
supplying about 642 megawatt hours of power to the U.K., 1.2
percent of generation, according to grid data on Bloomberg. On
Jan. 20, it supplying at the rate of 3,092 megawatt hours, the
highest last month, the data show.  The gas grid may be able to help meet heating demand on the
coldest days cost efficiently, even in 2050, Baldwin said. CNG
in Solihull,  England , provides advisory services on natural gas
and biomethane projects.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catherine Airlie in London at 
 cairlie@bloomberg.net ;
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  