-- U.S. January ISM Non-Manufacturing Report on Business (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2012-02-03T15:05:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/u-s-january-ism-non-manufacturing-report-on-business-text-.html
Following is the text of U.S.
non-manufacturing conditions from the Institute for
Supply Management.  January 2012 Non-Manufacturing ISM Report On Business
NMI at 56.8%  This report reflects the U.S. Department of Commerce’s recently
completed annual adjustments to the seasonal adjustment factors
used to calculate the indexes.  Business Activity Index at 59.5%
New Orders Index at 59.4%
Employment Index at 57.4%  Economic activity in the non-manufacturing sector grew in
January for the 25th consecutive month, say the nation’s
purchasing and supply executives in the latest Non-Manufacturing
ISM Report On Business.  The report was issued today by  Anthony Nieves , C.P.M., CFPM,
chair of the Institute for Supply Management Non-Manufacturing
Business Survey Committee. “The NMI registered 56.8 percent in
January, 3.8 percentage points higher than the seasonally
adjusted 53 percent registered in December, and indicating
continued growth at a faster rate in the non-manufacturing
sector. The Non-Manufacturing Business Activity Index registered
59.5 percent, which is 3.6 percentage points higher than the
seasonally adjusted 55.9 percent reported in December,
reflecting growth for the 30th consecutive month. The New Orders
Index increased by 4.8 percentage points to 59.4 percent, and
the Employment Index increased by 7.6 percentage points to 57.4
percent, indicating substantial growth in employment after one
month of contraction. The Prices Index increased 1.5 percentage
points to 63.5 percent, indicating prices increased at a
slightly faster rate in January when compared to December.
According to the NMI, 12 non-manufacturing industries reported
growth in January. Respondents’ comments are mostly positive
about business conditions. There is concern about cost pressures
and the sustainability of the recent spike in activity.”  INDUSTRY PERFORMANCE (Based on the NMI)
The 12 non-manufacturing industries reporting growth in January
based on the NMI composite index -- listed in order -- are: Real
Estate, Rental & Leasing; Information; Educational Services;
Transportation & Warehousing; Accommodation & Food Services;
Construction; Other Services; Retail Trade; Professional,
Scientific & Technical Services; Finance & Insurance; Health
Care & Social Assistance; and Wholesale Trade. The four
industries reporting contraction in January are: Arts,
Entertainment & Recreation; Mining; Utilities; and Public
Administration.  WHAT RESPONDENTS ARE SAYING ...
•“Overall business conditions to improve. We continue to
outperform previous business cycles.” (Information)
•“We are seeing increased contractor bidding and activity in Q1
2012.” (Construction)
•“Small business borrowing continues to be slow.” (Finance &
Insurance)
•“New fiscal year, new budgets -- expecting to show an increase
in sales in first quarter.” (Other Services)
•“Economy continues to show signs of improvement and the company
revenue is improving slightly, but is very susceptible to
pricing and cost pressures.” (Professional, Scientific &
Technical Services)
•“There seems to be some stabilization in the economy as well as
[in the] supply chain. This seems to be calming inventory and
sales positions.” (Retail Trade)
•“Business is still stable; however, inflation in food prices is
still a problem.” (Wholesale Trade)  COMMODITIES REPORTED UP / DOWN IN PRICE, and IN SHORT SUPPLY
Commodities Up in Price
Airfares; Beef; Chemical Products; Chicken; Crab; Coffee (2); #1
 Diesel Fuel  (2); #2 Diesel Fuel (3); Fuel; Gasoline; Medical
Supplies (2); Paper; Petroleum Based Products; Resin Based
Products; Vehicles; and Wire.  Commodities Down in Price
Corrugated Cartons is the only commodity reported down in price.  Commodities in Short Supply
Crab; #2 Diesel Fuel (2); Fiber Cable; and Pharmaceuticals.  Note: The number of consecutive months the commodity is listed
is indicated after each item.  JANUARY 2012 NON-MANUFACTURING INDEX SUMMARIES  NMI
In January, the NMI registered 56.8 percent, indicating
continued growth in the non-manufacturing sector for the 25th
consecutive month. A reading above 50 percent indicates the non-
manufacturing sector economy is generally expanding; below 50
percent indicates the non-manufacturing sector is generally
contracting.  NMI HISTORY
Month NMI Month NMI
Jan 2012 56.8 Jul 2011 53.4
Dec 2011 53.0 Jun 2011 53.3
Nov 2011 52.6 May 2011 54.5
Oct 2011 52.6 Apr 2011 54.4
Sep 2011 52.6 Mar 2011 56.3
Aug 2011 53.8 Feb 2011 59.0
Average for 12 months - 54.4
High - 59.0
Low - 52.6  Business Activity
ISM’s Non-Manufacturing Business Activity Index in January
registered 59.5 percent, 3.6 percentage points higher than the
seasonally adjusted 55.9 percent registered in December. Ten
industries reported increased business activity, and four
industries reported decreased activity for the month of January.
Comments from respondents include: “Expenditures and projects
that were pushed back on in late 2011 are now being executed”
and “Seasonal growth/improved economic environment.”  The industries reporting growth of business activity in January
-- listed in order -- are: Real Estate, Rental & Leasing;
Information; Educational Services; Construction; Transportation
& Warehousing; Other Services; Accommodation & Food Services;
Finance & Insurance; Health Care & Social Assistance; and Public
Administration. The industries reporting decreased business
activity in January are: Arts, Entertainment & Recreation;
Utilities; Mining; and Wholesale Trade.  New Orders
ISM’s Non-Manufacturing New Orders Index grew in January for the
30th consecutive month. The index registered 59.4 percent, an
increase of 4.8 percentage points from the seasonally adjusted
54.6 percent reported in December. Comments from respondents
include: “2012 capital budgets drive more orders/requests” and
“Increased requests for proposal.”  The 12 industries reporting growth of new orders in January --
listed in order -- are: Real Estate, Rental & Leasing;
Information; Educational Services; Transportation & Warehousing;
Other Services; Construction; Health Care & Social Assistance;
Accommodation & Food Services; Finance & Insurance; Wholesale
Trade; Utilities; and Professional, Scientific & Technical
Services. The two industries reporting contraction of new orders
in January are: Arts, Entertainment & Recreation; and Mining.  Employment
Employment activity in the non-manufacturing sector grew
substantially in January, as ISM’s Non-Manufacturing Employment
Index registered 57.4 percent. This reflects an increase of 7.6
percentage points when compared to the seasonally adjusted 49.8
percent registered in December. Nine industries reported
increased employment, five industries reported decreased
employment, and four industries reported unchanged employment
compared to December. Comments from respondents include:
“Ramping up to meet increase in revenues due to expansion and
acquisitions” and “More job awards.”  The industries reporting an increase in employment in January --
listed in order -- are: Information; Professional, Scientific &
Technical Services; Retail Trade; Construction; Transportation &
Warehousing; Accommodation & Food Services; Wholesale Trade;
Finance & Insurance; and Other Services. The industries
reporting a reduction in employment in January are: Arts,
Entertainment & Recreation; Public Administration; Educational
Services; Mining; and Health Care & Social Assistance.  Supplier Deliveries
The Supplier Deliveries Index registered 51 percent in January,
0.5 percentage point lower than the 51.5 percent registered in
December, indicating that supplier deliveries were slower in
January. A reading above 50 percent indicates slower deliveries.  The eight industries reporting slower deliveries in January --
listed in order -- are: Mining; Retail Trade; Educational
Services; Utilities; Information; Public Administration;
Professional, Scientific & Technical Services; and Wholesale
Trade. The four industries reporting faster supplier deliveries
in January are: Construction; Other Services; Transportation &
Warehousing; and Finance & Insurance. Six industries reported no
change in supplier deliveries in January compared to December.  Inventories
ISM’s Non-Manufacturing Inventories Index contracted in January.
The index registered 47 percent, which is 1.5 percentage points
lower than the 48.5 percent reading that was reported in
December. Of the total respondents in January, 26 percent
indicated they do not have inventories or do not measure them.
Comments from respondents include: “High sales lowered
inventory” and “Bleeding down inventory and liquidating obsolete
material.”  The five industries reporting an increase in inventories in
January are: Management of Companies & Support Services; Real
Estate, Rental & Leasing; Mining; Information; and Construction.
The 11 industries reporting decreases in inventories in January
-- listed in order -- are: Arts, Entertainment & Recreation;
Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing & Hunting; Accommodation & Food
Services; Utilities; Retail Trade; Finance & Insurance;
Transportation & Warehousing; Professional, Scientific &
Technical Services; Wholesale Trade; Other Services; and Health
Care & Social Assistance.  Prices
Prices paid by non-manufacturing organizations for purchased
materials and services increased at a slightly faster rate in
January. ISM’s Non-Manufacturing Prices Index for January
registered 63.5 percent, 1.5 percentage points higher than the
seasonally adjusted 62 percent reported in December. In January,
the percentage of respondents reporting higher prices is 31
percent, the percentage indicating no change in prices paid is
64 percent, and 5 percent of the respondents reported lower
prices.  Thirteen non-manufacturing industries reported an increase in
prices paid, in the following order: Accommodation & Food
Services; Real Estate, Rental & Leasing; Wholesale Trade;
Professional, Scientific & Technical Services; Utilities;
Construction; Transportation & Warehousing; Public
Administration; Educational Services; Mining; Retail Trade;
Finance & Insurance; and Health Care & Social Assistance. The
three industries reporting a decrease in prices paid are:
Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing & Hunting; Other Services; and
Arts, Entertainment & Recreation.  Backlog of Orders
ISM’s Non-Manufacturing Backlog of Orders Index contracted in
January for the seventh time in eight months. The index
registered 49.5 percent, 4 percentage points higher than the
45.5 percent reported in December. Of the total respondents in
January, 39 percent indicated they do not measure backlog of
orders.  The four industries reporting an increase in order backlogs in
January are: Retail Trade; Information; Other Services; and
Construction. The four industries reporting lower backlog of
orders in January are: Management of Companies & Support
Services; Mining; Professional, Scientific & Technical Services;
and Public Administration. Ten industries reported no change in
order backlogs for the month of January compared to December.  New Export Orders
Orders and requests for services and other non-manufacturing
activities to be provided outside of the  United States  by
domestically based personnel grew in January for the sixth
consecutive month. The New Export Orders Index for January
registered 56.5 percent, which is 5.5 percentage points higher
than the 51 percent reported in December. Of the total
respondents in January, 66 percent indicated they either do not
perform, or do not separately measure, orders for work outside
of the United States.  The seven industries reporting an increase in new export orders
in January -- listed in order -- are: Retail Trade; Other
Services; Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing & Hunting;
Transportation & Warehousing; Accommodation & Food Services;
Finance & Insurance; and Information. The three industries
reporting a decrease in export orders in January are: Management
of Companies & Support Services; Professional, Scientific &
Technical Services; and Wholesale Trade. Six industries reported
no change in new export orders in January compared to December.  Imports
The ISM Non-Manufacturing Imports Index grew in January for the
second consecutive month. The index registered 55 percent, which
is 1 percentage point higher than the 54 percent reported in
December. Fifty-five percent of respondents reported that they
do not use, or do not track, the use of imported materials.  The nine industries reporting an increase in the use of imports
in January -- listed in order -- are: Management of Companies &
Support Services; Information; Finance & Insurance; Other
Services; Construction; Public Administration; Transportation &
Warehousing; Accommodation & Food Services; and Wholesale Trade.
The two industries reporting a decrease in imports for the month
of January are: Retail Trade; and Arts, Entertainment &
Recreation. Seven industries reported no change in imports for
the month of January compared to December.  Inventory Sentiment
The ISM Non-Manufacturing Inventory Sentiment Index in January
registered 58.5 percent, which is 1 percentage point lower than
the 59.5 percent reported in December. This indicates that
respondents believe their inventories are still too high at this
time. In January, 24 percent of respondents said their
inventories were too high, 7 percent said their inventories were
too low, and 69 percent said their inventories were about right.  The eight industries reporting a feeling that their inventories
are too high in January -- listed in order -- are: Management of
Companies & Support Services; Utilities; Finance & Insurance;
Wholesale Trade; Information; Other Services; Mining; and Health
Care & Social Assistance. The two industries reporting that
their inventories are too low in January are: Accommodation &
Food Services; and Construction.  About this Report
The data presented herein is obtained from a survey of non-
manufacturing supply managers based on information they have
collected within their respective organizations. ISM makes no
representation, other than that stated within this release,
regarding the individual company data collection procedures. Use
of the data is in the public domain and should be compared to
all other economic data sources when used in decision-making.  Data and Method of Presentation
The Non-Manufacturing ISM Report On Business is based on data
compiled from purchasing and supply executives nationwide.
Membership of the Non-Manufacturing Business Survey Committee is
diversified by NAICS, based on each industry’s contribution to
gross domestic product (GDP). The Non-Manufacturing Business
Survey Committee responses are divided into the following NAICS
code categories: Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing & Hunting;
Mining; Utilities; Construction; Wholesale Trade; Retail Trade;
Transportation & Warehousing; Information; Finance & Insurance;
Real Estate, Rental & Leasing; Professional, Scientific &
Technical Services; Management of Companies & Support Services;
Educational Services; Health Care & Social Assistance; Arts,
Entertainment & Recreation; Accommodation & Food Services;
Public Administration; and Other Services (services such as
Equipment & Machinery Repairing; Promoting or Administering
Religious Activities; Grantmaking; Advocacy; and Providing Dry-
Cleaning & Laundry Services, Personal Care Services, Death Care
Services, Pet Care Services, Photofinishing Services, Temporary
Parking Services, and Dating Services).  Survey responses reflect the change, if any, in the current
month compared to the previous month. For each of the indicators
measured (Business Activity, New Orders, Backlog of Orders, New
Export Orders, Inventory Change, Inventory Sentiment, Imports,
Prices, Employment and Supplier Deliveries), this report shows
the percentage reporting each response, and the diffusion index.
Responses represent raw data and are never changed. Data is
seasonally adjusted for Business Activity, New Orders, Prices
and Employment. All seasonal adjustment factors are supplied by
the U.S. Department of Commerce and are subject annually to
relatively minor changes when conditions warrant them. The
remaining indexes have not indicated significant seasonality.  The NMI (Non-Manufacturing Index) is a composite index based on
the diffusion indexes for four of the indicators with equal
weights: Business Activity (seasonally adjusted), New Orders
(seasonally adjusted), Employment (seasonally adjusted) and
Supplier Deliveries. Diffusion indexes have the properties of
leading indicators and are convenient summary measures showing
the prevailing direction of change and the scope of change. An
index reading above 50 percent indicates that the non-
manufacturing economy in that index is generally expanding;
below 50 percent indicates that it is generally declining.
Supplier Deliveries is an exception. A Supplier Deliveries Index
above 50 percent indicates slower deliveries and below 50
percent indicates faster deliveries.  The Non-Manufacturing ISM Report On Business® surveys are sent
out to Non-Manufacturing Business Survey Committee respondents
the first part of each month. Respondents are asked to ONLY
report on information for the current month. ISM receives survey
responses throughout most of any given month, with the majority
of respondents generally waiting until late in the month to
submit responses in order to give the most accurate picture of
current business activity. ISM then compiles the reports for
release on the third business day of the following month.  The industries reporting growth, as indicated in the Non-
Manufacturing ISM Report On Business® monthly reports, are
listed in the order of most growth to least growth. For the
industries reporting contraction or decreases, those are listed
in the order of the highest level of contraction/decrease to the
least level of contraction/decrease.  The Non-Manufacturing ISM Report On Business® is published
monthly by the  Institute for Supply Management ™, the largest
supply management research and education organization in the
United States. The Institute for Supply Management™, established
in 1915, is the largest supply management organization in the
world as well as one of the most respected. ISM’s mission is to
lead the supply management profession through its standards of
excellence, research, promotional activities and education.  The full text version of the Non-Manufacturing ISM Report On
Business® is posted on ISM’s Web site at www.ism.ws on the third
business day of every month after 10:10 a.m. (ET).  The next Non-Manufacturing ISM Report On Business® featuring the
February 2012 data will be released at 10:00 a.m. (ET) on Monday,
March 5, 2012.  SOURCE: Institute for Supply Management    http://www.ism.ws  