-- U.S.-Held Taliban as Bargaining Chips Draw Republican Criticism
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e   a n d   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2012-02-03T05:01:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/u-s-held-taliban-as-bargaining-chips-draw-republican-criticism.html
The Obama administration would cross
a “dangerous line” with its plan to facilitate peace talks
with the Afghan Taliban by transferring five prisoners from U.S.
military detention, the chairman of the House Intelligence
Committee said.  The U.S. hasn’t decided whether to move the five men held
at the U.S. naval base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, to a Qatari
prison as part of an effort to start peace talks with the
militant group, Director of National Intelligence James Clapper
testified yesterday.  That possibility “sends a horrible message to the world’s
bad actors that soldiers, prisoners, citizens are to be traded
like commodities,” Representative Mike Rogers, the Michigan
Republican who heads the intelligence committee said.  Administration officials have been laying the groundwork
for talks with the Taliban in Qatar, even as they say they have
no illusions about what can be accomplished. Moving the Taliban
detainees -- who had been deemed too dangerous to release in a
2009 U.S. intelligence review -- is being considered as a way to
build confidence with the militant group.  It’s an initiative that may carry political risks for
President  Barack Obama  if Republicans paint it as a deal with
terrorists.  “Apparently, the Taliban will not have to stop fighting
our troops, and won’t even have to stop bombing them with
IEDs,” Senator  Saxby Chambliss , a Georgia Republican, said at a
Senate Intelligence Committee hearing Jan. 31, referring to
improvised explosive devices.  “I want to state publicly as strong as I can that we
should not transfer these detainees from Guantanamo,” he said.  ‘A Horrible Message’  The idea of engaging the Taliban at all draws criticism
from Republicans and cautions from others.  “It sends a horrible message to the people that have been
with the U.S. in Afghanistan, women, entrepreneurs, people who
believe that democracy would bring a better day in
 Afghanistan ,” said Rogers, speaking at his committee’s annual
open hearing on national security threats yesterday.  Karl Inderfurth, a former assistant secretary of state for
South East Asia who met with the Taliban around 20 times between
1997 and 2007, urged wariness.  Engaging with the Taliban is “not a fruitless task,”
Inderfurth said in a telephone interview. “It should be pursued
because we should find out if there’s any possibility of a
change in the Taliban’s long-standing ambition to return to
power in Afghanistan,” Inderfurth said. “But we need to engage
in any talks with our eyes wide open.”  Talks with Karzai  Marc Grossman , the State Department’s special
representative for Afghanistan and  Pakistan , traveled to
Afghanistan, the  United Arab Emirates  and Qatar in January to
build support for talks. The Taliban said Jan. 3 it was ready to
open a liaison office in Qatar as a point of contact for talks
with the U.S.  Grossman met with Afghan President  Hamid Karzai  on efforts
toward a Taliban reconciliation and  peace process . Speaking to
reporters in Kabul during his trip, Grossman said that peace
talks could only begin once the Taliban had renounced
international terrorism and agreed to support a peace process.  The diplomatic moves to engage the Taliban in talks comes
as the U.S. envisions withdrawing American forces. Secretary of
Defense  Leon Panetta  said Feb. 1 that the U.S. plans to end
combat operations by the end of 2013, providing mostly training
and support for Afghan forces through the end of 2014.  Republicans in Congress argue that Panetta’s comments will
reinforce Taliban leaders’ beliefs that they can wait out the
U.S. and its European allies.  ‘Wait Us Out’  “The Taliban has little incentive to engage in a
meaningful negotiation with the Afghan government or with us to
end the conflict when they believe the  United States  is leaving
and that they can wait us out,” Arizona Republican Senator John McCain said in a statement.  Inderfurth, who served under former President  Bill Clinton ,
said, “Based on my direct experiences working with the Taliban,
they are not only playing for time, but they’re playing us in
terms of their seriousness in searching for a political
settlement.”  Alistair Burt, the British Foreign Office’s minister for
 South Asia , told reporters in Washington yesterday that, if the
Taliban’s strategy is to wait for the U.S. and its allies to
pull out entirely, the group is making a mistake.  “That’s not going to happen,” Burt said. “If the Taliban
believe that by sitting tight we’re going to go away, they’re
wrong.”  Security of Afghanistan  State Department spokesman  Victoria Nuland  said the goal is
to build up Afghan forces, and “nobody is talking about
abandoning the security of Afghanistan.”  A top secret National Intelligence Estimate, the consensus
view of the U.S. intelligence community, says the Taliban remain
determined to return to power, suggesting the militant Islamist
group may wait out the U.S. The estimate was described by two
U.S. officials who have read it and agreed to describe it only
on the basis of anonymity because it’s classified.  “I don’t think anyone in the administration harbors any
illusions about the potential here,” Clapper told the
intelligence committee.  Separately, three U.S. officials said the Taliban may be
interested in talks mostly as a way to bolster their political
legitimacy, much as Hezbollah in Lebanon transformed itself from
an insurgency into the country’s dominant political party.  An administration official familiar with the proposed
prisoner transfer said the goal is to negotiate an end to the
war through an Afghan-led process and that Afghan officials and
U.S. military officials are supportive.  The official said transfer of detainees would be subject to
a series of laws, including the National Defense Authorization
Act which codifies the indefinite detention of terrorism
suspects, and be decided after consultation with Congress.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in  Washington  at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net ;
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  