-- U.S. Brokerage Firms Closing Shop After Trading Drop-Off, Capital Squeeze
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2012-02-04T01:59:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/u-s-brokerage-firms-closing-shop-after-trading-drop-off-capital-squeeze.html
Stand-alone U.S. brokerages hurt by
2011’s trading slump may struggle to raise capital or obtain
adequate loans unless markets improve, adding to closures that
imperiled more than 200 Wall Street jobs last month.  WJB Capital Group Inc. and Ticonderoga Securities LLC told
employees in January that they would shut amid a shortage of
capital, people familiar with their plans said at the time.
Kaufman Bros. LP, the minority-owned investment bank that helped
unwind U.S. stakes in bailed-out financial companies, ceased
business Jan. 30. The New York-based firms each employed about
100 people or fewer.  Some firms’ capital weakened as equity trading stalled last
year amid a downgrade of  U.S. debt  and concern Europe’s debt
crisis could deepen. Investors are weary of the long-term
security of some smaller, single-business firms, said  Paul Reilly , chief executive officer of  Raymond James Financial Inc. (RJF)   “A lot of firms aren’t big enough to have sustained
earnings where they can go to the debt markets,” Reilly said
Feb. 1 in an interview at Bloomberg’s headquarters in  New York .
“You’re investment grade or you’re not. That means you have
access or you don’t.”  Average daily  trading volumes  on major U.S. exchanges fell
20 percent last year from 2009. The number of firms policed by
the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority fell 10 to 4,446 in
January, according to  data  from the regulator. Finra’s
membership has declined 11 percent since 2007.  ‘Marginal Firms’  James Angel, a finance professor at  Georgetown University ’s
McDonough School of Business, said he expects more brokerages to
close. Lower trading volumes paired with the potential for
increased regulatory costs from the Dodd-Frank Act and other
financial rules are turning investors away, he said.  “As long as trading activity remains weak, the marginal
firms will be in trouble,” Angel said in a telephone interview.
“Investors are saying, ‘We’re not that bullish on the long-term
prospects, and so sinking money into a firm that’s in trouble
right now is not a good idea.’”  The weakened trading volumes led to declines in fourth-
quarter trading revenue at some of the largest U.S. banks.
 Morgan Stanley (MS) , owner of the world’s biggest brokerage, was the
only firm among the five largest Wall Street banks to post an
increase in trading revenue excluding accounting gains in 2011.
Financial institutions worldwide have announced more than
200,000 job cuts amid declines in trading and investment-banking
revenue, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Competitive Environment  The banking industry will contract as firms sell or exit
businesses amid capital and regulatory requirements, according
to Lazard Ltd. Vice Chairman  Gary Parr .  “There will be less companies competing in the global
wholesale business, but it won’t be by mergers,” Parr said Jan.
27 in an interview on Bloomberg Television. “It will be by a
number of firms just departing the business. They’ll be shutting
down, they may exit some lines or sell them.”  Smaller brokerages in the equity capital markets businesses
are operating in a “very competitive” environment and have
been “very stressed” during the past six months, said Reilly
of  Raymond James , which agreed last month to buy Morgan Keegan &
Co. from  Regions Financial Corp. (RF)  for $930 million. The deal
combines two of the U.S. Southeast’s biggest brokerages.  Closure Announcement  WJB Capital called its employees into a meeting on Jan. 3
to notify them about the shutdown. The company had been “unable
to raise capital in a manner that would have allowed the firm to
continue its operations given the current climate and the
constraints that would have been placed on everyone,” CEO Craig
A. Rothfeld said in an interview at the time.  The closures of WJB Capital, Ticonderoga and Kaufman
followed the Oct. 31 bankruptcy of  MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MF) ,
brought on by margin calls and bank demands for money after it
revealed a $6.3 billion bet on the bonds of  Europe ’s most
indebted nations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 