-- U.S. Lacks Fiscal Plan to Regain AAA Grade, S&P’s Chambers Says
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   S a r a   E i s e n
-- 2012-02-03T17:33:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/u-s-lacks-fiscal-plan-to-regain-aaa-grade-s-p-s-chambers-says.html
The U.S. lacks a medium-term fiscal
plan that would remove the negative outlook on the nation’s
rating, let alone help it regain its top credit grade, according
to  John Chambers  of  Standard & Poor’s .  America has had an AA+ rating with a negative outlook since
Aug. 5 when the New York-based unit of McGraw-Hill Cos. stripped
the nation of its AAA ranking, citing the government’s failure
to agree on a plan to reduce deficits. Countries that lose the
top ranking historically have taken about 9 years to regain the
grade.  “To get back to stable you would have to have some
confidence that a medium-term plan would be brought forward, a
bit more robust than we have to date,” Chambers, managing
director of sovereign ratings at S&P, said today on Bloomberg
Radio’s “Bloomberg on the Economy” with Sara Eisen and  Michael McKee . “We don’t expect too much before the election. You could
have some positive moves after November.”  Bond investors ignored the downgrade Aug. 5, driving
Treasury yields to the lowest levels in history, amid concern
the  U.S. economy  was stalling and as  Europe ’s debt crisis
intensified. Treasuries have returned 4.6 percent since the
rating cut as of Feb. 2, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index data.  “We don’t see that there’s a credible medium-term
framework in the offering,” Chambers said. The U.S. was cut  in
part because of “the invidious and basically pointless debate
that we had over the debt ceiling that put us within 10 hours of
a major cash flow problem. That usually is just not conduct you
see at a AAA level.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
Sara Eisen in New York at 
 seisen2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  