-- ISM Services Gauge in U.S. Rises to 56.8
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-02-03T15:11:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/u-s-service-economy-grows-more-than-forecast-as-ism-index-rises-to-56-8.html
Service industries  in the U.S.
expanded in January at the fastest pace in almost a year,
pointing to strength in the biggest part of the economy.  The Institute for Supply Management’s non-manufacturing
 index  rose more than forecast, to 56.8 from 53 in December, the
Tempe, Arizona-based group’s data showed today. Readings above
50 signal expansion and the  median  forecast of 77 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News was 53.2.  A 243,000 increase in January payrolls reported earlier
today signals an improving labor market that will help sustain
household demand, which accounts for about 70 percent of the
economy. Together with gains in manufacturing, the strength in
service industries will help the U.S. mitigate the risks from
 Europe ’s debt crisis.  “Growth continues to accelerate,”  Joel Naroff , president
of Naroff Economic Advisors Inc. in Holland, Pennsylvania, said
before the report. “The economy is moving forward” as
“economic conditions are slowly on the rise.”  Economists’ estimates in the Bloomberg survey ranged from
52 to 54.  Employment climbed more than forecast in January and the
jobless rate unexpectedly fell to the lowest in three years,
another report today showed.  The increase in payrolls was the most since April and
exceeded all forecasts in the Bloomberg survey, Labor Department
figures showed in Washington. The  unemployment rate  dropped to
8.3 percent, the lowest since February 2009.  Employment, Orders Jump  The ISM non-manufacturing survey’s  employment gauge  jumped
to 57.4, the highest since February 2006, from 49.8 in the prior
month. The measure of new orders increased to 59.4, the highest
since March. A gauge of business activity climbed to 59.5, the
strongest in almost a year. The index of prices paid also
increased.  The ISM services survey covers industries ranging from
utilities and retailing to health care and finance. A Feb. 1
report by the group showed manufacturing grew in January at the
fastest pace in seven months, propelled by new orders.  Service providers seeing an improvement include  United
Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)  The world’s largest package-delivery company
forecast a 2012 profit that exceeded analysts’ estimates as
shipping demand increases.  “We certainly are seeing a better  U.S. economy  than we
would have thought back in probably August, September,” Chief
Executive Officer Scott Davis said in a Jan. 31  call with
investors.  Federal Reserve  Even so,  Federal Reserve  policy makers last month announced
they will maintain near-zero  interest rates  through at least
late 2014. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said yesterday that the
economy has shown signs of improvement while remaining
vulnerable to shocks.  “Fortunately, over the past few months, indicators of
spending, production, and job-market activity have shown some
signs of improvement,” Bernanke said in prepared testimony to
the House Budget Committee in  Washington . “The outlook remains
uncertain, however, and close monitoring of economic
developments will remain necessary.”  The economy grew at a 2.8 percent annual pace in the fourth
quarter after a 1.8 percent gain in the prior three months, the
Commerce Department reported on Jan. 27. The growth rate
excluding a jump in inventories was 0.8 percent. Consumer
spending rose at a 2 percent pace last quarter, it showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  