-- U.S. Antitrust Enforcers Add Litigators to Bolster Odds at Trial
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n   a n d   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 2012-02-03T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/u-s-antitrust-enforcers-add-litigators-to-bolster-odds-at-trial.html
U.S. antitrust enforcers are hiring
litigators from major law firms, signaling a growing readiness
for court battles to block mergers they view as anticompetitive.  The  Justice Department ’s antitrust division on Jan. 3
brought in Mark Ryan, a partner at  Mayer Brown LLP (1120L) , as director
of litigation, a new position. He’ll work for  Joseph Wayland , a
former  Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP  antitrust litigator who
joined as civil enforcement chief a year ago. The Federal Trade
Commission intends to hire a trial attorney in coming months,
Commissioner Tom Rosch said in an interview.  “If a case is worth bringing, then we should be prepared
to litigate it,” Rosch said.  As an improving economy spurred a 24 percent jump in merger
proposals last year from 2010, the Obama administration may be
seeking to respond more forcefully to deals it considers
anticompetitive, said Andrew Gavil, an antitrust professor at
Howard University School of Law in Washington. Being prepared
for trials sets up a credible threat that may also help
regulators win more favorable settlements, he said.  “It’s a way of deterring more aggressive deal making,”
Gavil said.  In its first trial in seven years, the antitrust division
in November defeated H&R Block Inc.’s proposed acquisition of
the maker of TaxAct tax preparation software. The last trial
before that was in 2004 when the division failed to stop Oracle
Corp.’s $8.4 billion purchase of PeopleSoft Inc., according to
department data.  Teams of Attorneys  Government lawyers often face teams of attorneys, many of
whom had years of antitrust experience at the Justice Department
or FTC.  AT&T Inc. (T)  hired at least three firms to help defend its
proposed $39 billion bid for T-Mobile USA Inc., the biggest
proposed deal of 2011.  Its team was led by Rich Rosen and Donna Patterson, both
former senior  officials  in the antitrust division, at  Arnold &
Porter LLP , which has represented AT&T and its predecessor, SBC
Communications Capital Corp. in acquisitions.  They worked alongside  Crowell & Moring LLP  partners Randy Smith, an FTC veteran, and Kathryn Kirmayer. When the Justice
Department sued to block the transaction, trial lawyers Mark Hansen and Michael Kellogg of Kellogg, Huber, Hansen, Todd,
Evans & Figel PLLC, joined the team, each bringing more than 25
years of litigation experience.  T-Mobile Lawyers  They coordinated with T-Mobile lawyers including Cleary
Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP attorneys George Cary, who more
than a decade ago was deputy director of the FTC’s competition
bureau, and Mark Nelson, who has almost 20 years of experience
in antitrust litigation.  Wayland led the courtroom maneuvering against AT&T with the
help of Los Angeles-based lawyer Glenn Pomerantz, retained
temporarily from Munger, Tolles & Olson LLP to bolster the trial
team, and the division’s in-house lawyers and paralegals. The
case ended in December when AT&T dropped the proposal.  “The Justice Department is more aggressive these days and
has redeveloped some self-confidence in their ability to go to
court,” said Bert Foer, president of the American Antitrust
Institute, a Washington-based nonprofit research group that
favors stronger enforcement. “They are rebuilding their
armaments.”  Merger filings under antitrust regulations rose to 1,450 in
fiscal 2011 from 1,166 filings the year before, Sharis Pozen,
the acting head of the Justice Department’s antitrust division,
said in a speech to the  American Bar Association  in November.  Approved or Settled  While most of the deals were approved or settled with
conditions, a few faced court challenges, Pozen said.  “We have made a concerted effort to increase the
division’s litigation resources,” Pozen said. “Bringing
additional experienced trial attorneys to the antitrust division
is a perfect complement to our team of experienced litigators
and trial attorneys.”  William Baer, who leads the antitrust team for  Arnold &
Porter LLP  in Washington, is being vetted by the White House to
become the new antitrust chief when Pozen departs April 30,
according to two people familiar with the process who asked not
to be identified because of its confidential nature.  “It’s extremely interesting and prestigious work,”
Melissa Maxman, the Washington-based co-chair of the antitrust
practice at Cozen O’Connor LLP and a former assistant U.S.
attorney, said of big-firm lawyers who go into the government.
“You have a steady stream of interesting cases, there’s a lot
of autonomy, you don’t have to seek out clients and you get to
wear the white hat. The only downside is you don’t make as much
money.”  Liability Narrowed  Winning antitrust cases has become more difficult over the
past decade as a line of U.S.  Supreme Court  decisions on private
litigation narrowed antitrust liability. That has increased the
agencies’ need to fortify their litigation staff, Gavil said.
The Justice Department and FTC have joint authority to decide if
mergers violate antitrust laws.  The FTC, which on Jan. 27 filed a complaint to stop
Omnicare Inc.’s hostile $440.8 million takeover of PharMerica
Corp., lost two cases last year, including an appeal to block
Danish drugmaker Lundbeck Inc. from acquiring two medications
for the treatment of potentially fatal heart conditions
affecting newborns. The FTC said Jan. 20 it doesn’t intend to
seek review of the case by the Supreme Court or proceed further,
a decision Commissioner Rosch opposed.  The FTC also lost an effort to block a hospital merger in
 Albany ,  Georgia .  FTC ‘Hit’  “The FTC has taken a hit and they’ve got to start turning
this around,” said  Herbert Hovenkamp , a professor and antitrust
specialist at the University of Iowa College of Law in Iowa
City. “They should have won those cases.”  The FTC hired Edward Hassi in February 2011 as chief trial
counsel for the competition bureau, replacing J. Robert
Robertson, who joined  Hogan Lovells . Hassi joined from  O’Melveny
& Myers LLP , where he led large litigation teams.  While both agencies have experienced lawyers, they mostly
do investigations and have few opportunities to hone trial
skills.  Rosch, who has more than 40 years of experience as a trial
lawyer for business clients including Chrysler Corp., General
Motors Corp. and Greyhound Lines Inc., said the FTC should bring
more lawsuits to block deals. The agency reports publicly
settling nine challenges to mergers last year while five were
resolved before any action was taken. Three cases went to court.  “We still don’t litigate everything I’d like to
litigate,” Rosch said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sara Forden in  Washington  at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
 Steven Komarow  at   skomarow1@bloomberg.net . 