-- UBS Nominates Weder di Mauro and Romy to Board of Directors
-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 2012-02-03T08:57:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/ubs-nominates-di-mauro-and-romy-to-board-of-directors.html
UBS AG (UBSN) , Switzerland’s biggest bank,
will nominate Beatrice Weder di Mauro and Isabelle Romy for
election to the board of directors, raising the proportion of
women on the 12-person board to 25 percent.  Chairman  Kaspar Villiger , 70, and Bruno Gehrig, 65, will
not stand for re-election at the annual shareholders meeting on
May 3, the Zurich-based bank said in a statement today.  Ann Godbehere is currently the only woman among 11 members
of the board. UBS said last year it plans to name Axel Weber
chairman if he’s elected to the  board  at the shareholders
meeting. Weber supports the two new nominations, the bank said.  “I am pleased to propose to shareholders two
internationally recognized personalities in Beatrice Weder di
Mauro and Isabelle Romy, both of whom are highly regarded even
outside expert circles, for election to the board,” Villiger
said in the statement. “I am convinced that the valuable
experience they have gained in the economic and legal spheres
will enrich the board and prove advantageous to UBS.”  Weder di Mauro, 46, has been a professor of economics,
economic policy and international macroeconomics at the Johannes
Gutenberg University in Mainz,  Germany , since 2001. She will not
be available for a reappointment to the German council of
economic experts, of which she’s been a member since 2004, to
avoid any possible conflicts of interest, the university said in
a separate statement. A Swiss and Italian citizen, she was an
economist for the  World Bank  and the  International Monetary Fund 
in  Washington  between 1994 and 1997.  Romy, 47, is a partner at the Swiss law firm Niederer Kraft
& Frey, and specializes in international litigation and
arbitration. She has also been an associate professor at the
University of Fribourg and at the Federal Institute of
Technology in Lausanne since 1996. A Swiss citizen, she served
as a deputy judge at the Swiss Federal Supreme Court between
2003 and 2008.  Gehrig, a former chairman of Swiss Life Holding AG and a
former member of the  Swiss National Bank ’s governing board, has
been on UBS’s board since October 2008.  Godbehere was chief financial officer of  Northern Rock 
between February 2008 and January 2009 and the CFO of Swiss Re 
Group from 2003 to 2007.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ; 