-- Huhne Resigns as U.K. Energy Secretary After Charge He Lied About Ticket
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2012-02-03T13:24:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/huhne-resigns-as-u-k-energy-secretary-after-charges-of-lying-on-speeding.html
Chris Huhne  resigned as U.K. energy
secretary after becoming the first serving Cabinet minister to
be charged with a serious criminal offense in modern times.  Prosecutors have “sufficient evidence to bring criminal
charges” against Huhne and his ex-wife, Vicky Pryce, of
perverting the course of justice, the director of public
prosecutions, Keir Starmer, said in a televised statement in
London today. The charges were laid after Pryce accused Huhne of
lying about a speeding ticket nine years ago.  The decision to prosecute is “deeply regrettable,” Huhne,
57, told reporters in London less than an hour after Starmer’s
announcement. “I’m innocent of these charges, I intend to fight
this in the courts. So as to avoid any distraction to either my
official duties or my trial defense, I’m standing down and
resigning as energy secretary.”  Prime Minister  David Cameron  promoted Business Minister Ed Davey to replace Huhne, ensuring that there will continue to be
five members from the Liberal Democrats in the Cabinet. Another
Lib Dem, Norman Lamb, moved to take Davey’s job.  Political historians said today’s events were
unprecedented.  ‘Jail If Convicted’  “I can’t think of a comparable case in British politics
where a Cabinet minister is charged by the police for an offense
for which they potentially face jail if convicted,”  Philip Cowley , professor of politics at Nottingham University, said in
a telephone interview.  David Butler, a fellow of Nuffield College at Oxford
University and the author of “British Political Facts,” said
he couldn’t think of a case like it “at least since 1900.”  Huhne is the third Cabinet minister to resign from
Cameron’s government since it was formed in May 2010. The
second, Conservative Defense Secretary  Liam Fox , quit in October
over his relationship with a friend and self-styled adviser,
Adam Werritty.  “The essence of the charges is that between March and May
2003, Mr. Huhne, having allegedly committed a speeding offense,
falsely informed the investigating authorities that Ms. Pryce
had been the driver of the vehicle in question, and she falsely
accepted that she was the driver,” Starmer said.  Court Date  The former energy secretary said he will continue to serve
as a member of Parliament. He and his ex-wife will appear in
court on Feb. 16.  After taking office in May 2010, Huhne put aside his long-
standing opposition to nuclear power and promoted a new
generation of atomic plants to be built by utilities led by
 Electricite de France SA . He also backed subsidies for renewable
energy, though he spent much of the past year reining in support
for solar power. Huhne won praise from the renewable-energy
lobby today for his performance.  “Whatever the terms of his departure, few can deny that
Chris Huhne has really shaken up the energy debate over the last
two years,” Good Energy Group Plc Chief Executive Officer
Juliet Davenport said in an e-mailed statement. “It is vital
that his replacement keeps up the momentum behind energy
reforms.”  EDF, in partnership with  Centrica Plc (CNA) , is one of six
utilities planning to build atomic stations in Britain. The
others are  Germany ’s RWE AG and EON AG, Iberdrola SA of  Spain ,
and GDF Suez SA of  France . Plans were given a boost by the
government’s introduction of a carbon floor price, which acts as
a tax on carbon emitted through power generation from coal and
gas, benefitting nuclear and renewables.  Wind Power  Huhne also pushed development of offshore wind farms. In
July, the Department of Energy and  Climate Change  targeted a
five-fold increase in wind power to 31 gigawatts by 2020.  Huhne also pushed through an energy bill last year laying
out what he called his “Green Deal,” measures that will allow
homes and businesses to install insulation, recouping costs
through savings on their heating bills.  John Sauven, the executive director of Greenpeace U.K.,
said in an e-mailed statement that Huhne was “a vocal advocate
for the green agenda in a government whose green credentials are
looking more than a little tarnished.”  Huhne also sped up a mandate for installing smart meters
that provide consumers and utilities real-time data about power
consumption. The government intends to have 53 million meters in
place at homes and businesses by 2020.  Energy Bill  Huhne’s successor will have to oversee sweeping changes to
the  electricity market  due in an energy bill the department aims
to enact by early 2013. The measures would guarantee long-term
prices for nuclear and renewable power and introduce payments to
generators acting as back-up suppliers for periods when wind
supplies drop.  A key aim of the Energy Department under Huhne has also
been to extend competition for power supply beyond the so-called
“Big Six” suppliers: EON, RWE’s Npower unit, EDF, SSE Plc,
Centrica and Iberdrola’s Scottish Power division, by making the
electricity market more transparent.  Huhne also pushed through a target to cut in half the
U.K.’s greenhouse-gas output from 1990 levels by 2027, while
pushing for the 27-nation European Union to adopt a goal of
reducing emissions by 30 percent by 2020. He set up a so-called
Green Bank that aims to spur renewable-energy projects.  Leadership Bids  Huhne left Pryce, a senior managing director at FTI
Consulting Inc., in June 2010 for a former aide, Carina
Trimingham. He has twice bid to become leader of the Liberal
Democrats, coming second in battles in 2006 and again in 2007.
In the second contest, Huhne lost to Clegg by 511 votes out of
the 41,465 cast by party members.  Davey, 46, is a former  management consultant  with Omega
Partners whose expertise on postal services came in useful when
he was appointed to the Department for Business, Innovation and
Skills with responsibility for Royal Mail Group Ltd. He has been
in Parliament since 1997, winning a seat in southwest  London  by
just 56 votes. In 2001, he turned that into one of the safest
Liberal Democrat districts in the country, winning 60 percent of
the vote.  “Ed Davey has previously stated the importance of
immediate action on climate change,” David Symons, a director
at WSP Environment & Energy in London, said in an e-mailed
statement. “These beliefs, coupled with his experience in BIS
on consumer choice, bode well for DECC’s key policies, such as
Green Deal.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  