-- Munis Retreat From LBJ-Era Low as Treasuries Jump on Jobs Report
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2012-02-03T19:35:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/munis-retreat-from-lbj-era-low-as-treasuries-jump-on-jobs-report.html
Yields on municipal debtmaturing in a
decade or more rose from the lowest in 45 years, as better-than-
expected job gains sent Treasury yields higher.  The muni rates jumped as much as 9 basis points, according
to Hardy Manges, head of municipal trading at Mitsubishi UFJ
Securities in  New York . The  yield  on top-rated tax-exempt bonds
maturing in 12 years increased 6.4 basis points to 1.98 percent
at 2 p.m. in New York, according to a Bloomberg Valuation Index.  Yields (USGG10YR)  on 10-year Treasuries -- which move inversely to
prices -- rose as much as 13 basis points, the most since Nov.
10, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The U.S. jobless
rate fell in January to  8.3 percent , the lowest in three years,
according to the Labor Department. That bolstered economic
optimism and reduced demand for Treasuries, seen as a haven.  “It’s just Treasuries,” Manges said. “The Treasury
weakness is driving the muni weakness right now.”  In the week ended Feb. 1, the  interest rate  on 20-year
general-obligation bonds with an average Moody’s Investors
Service rating of Aa2, the third-highest, fell 8 basis points,
or 0.08 percentage point, to 3.6 percent, according to a Bond
Buyer index.  That’s the lowest since April 1967, when  Lyndon B. Johnson 
was president.  “That’s all due to lack of supply,” Chip Peebles, senior
vice president of municipal trading at Morgan Keegan Inc. in
 Memphis ,  Tennessee , said in a telephone interview.  Gentle Pressure  The amount of local-government  debt  scheduled for sale in
the next 30 days fell to $4.8 billion today, the smallest in
three weeks, Bloomberg data show.  Mutual funds that focus on U.S. municipal bonds received
about $502 million in net additions in the week ended Feb. 1,
according to Lipper US Fund Flows data. It was the ninth-
straight week of gains. Inflows signal greater demand.  Municipal investors are also poised to collect $31.6
billion this month from coupon and principal payments, up from
about $30 billion in January, according to Chris Mauro, head of
U.S. municipal strategy at  RBC Capital Markets  in New York.  “The pressure on our market shouldn’t be too strong,”
Peebles said. “A little adjustment today actually may prove
itself to be an opportunity to buy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  