-- United Nations Rights Advocates Criticise Ethiopian Use of Anti-Terror Law
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 2012-02-03T09:46:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/united-nations-rights-advocates-criticise-ethiopian-use-of-anti-terror-law.html
The  United Nations  criticized the
Ethiopian government’s use of an anti-terrorism law to curb
freedom of expression by jailing opposition politicians and
reporters critical of the state.  In December, two Swedish journalists were sentenced to 11
years each by an Ethiopian court for supporting terrorism after
being captured with a banned rebel group. An exiled journalist,
two writers, a politician and one other individual, all from
Ethiopia, were given terms ranging from 14 years to life last
week for plotting terror acts.  Journalists “should not face criminal proceedings for
carrying out their legitimate work, let alone be severely
punished,” Frank La Rue, UN Special Rapporteur on freedom of
expression, said in a statement posted on the website of the UN
Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights.  Ethiopia  holds journalists accountable when they commit
crimes, Communications Minister Bereket Simon said.  “Ethiopia clearly differentiates between freedom of
expression and terrorism,” he said in a phone interview from the
capital,  Addis Ababa , today. “This is simply a very wrong
defense of foreign journalists who have been caught red-handed
when assisting terrorists.”  Ethiopia was the third-largest recipient of humanitarian
aid in the world in 2009, receiving $3.8 billion, according to
 Global Humanitarian Assistance , the Wells, England-based
research group. There are 26 UN agencies operating in Ethiopia,
according to the Addis Ababa-based  Development Assistance Group ,
which represents Ethiopia’s donors.  Terror Acts  Next month, 24 people including government opponents,
exiled journalists and dissident writer Eskinder Nega, begin
their defense of charges of committing terror acts under the
Horn of Africa nation’s 2009 law.  “Journalists, bloggers and others advocating for increased
respect for human rights should not be subject to pressure for
the mere fact that their views are not in alignment with those
of the government,” Margaret Sekaggya, who speaks for the UN on
behalf of human rights defenders, said in the statement.  Critics are applying “double standards” as they do not
claim freedom of expression is endangered when journalists are
prosecuted in the West, according to Bereket.  Five human-rights groups, including London-based  Amnesty
International  and New York-based  Human Rights Watch , said a
court case today in Addis Ababa threatens the “last remaining
human rights monitoring NGO in Ethiopia.” The Addis Ababa-based
 Human Rights Council  is trying to get a decision to freeze its
funding reversed, the group said yesterday.  In 2009, Ethiopia banned charities working on human rights
from receiving more than 10 percent of their funding from
abroad.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 William Davison  in Addis Ababa via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 