-- Turkish Inflation Climbs to Three-Year High, May Have Peaked
-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r   a n d   A l i   B e r a t   M e r i c
-- 2012-02-03T15:39:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/turkish-inflation-climbs-to-three-year-high-may-have-peaked-2-.html
Turkish inflation climbed for a
fourth consecutive month in January to the highest level since
November 2008 after food prices surged.  Bonds yields  fell on
speculation the rate may decline in the remainder of the year.  The  inflation  rate advanced to 10.6 percent, the statistics
agency in Ankara said on its website. That matched the median
estimate of eight economists in a Bloomberg  survey . In the
month, prices rose 0.6 percent. Producer price inflation slowed.  “Inflation is likely to have peaked at this point and,
provided that the currency remains relatively stable, we are
likely to see a gradual but faster improvement,”  Tevfik Aksoy ,
an economist for the region at Morgan Stanley in  London , said in
an e-mailed report to clients today. “We expect the first main
decline in inflation to materialize in May.”  The lira has rebounded 8 percent against the dollar this
year after sliding 18 percent in 2011, the biggest drop among
global currencies tracked by Bloomberg. Inflation has more than
doubled from a four-decade low of 4 percent last March as
investors pulled money out of  emerging markets  and the
government raised prices, prompting the central bank to lend at
above the  benchmark rate  of 5.75 percent.  Yields on benchmark two-year bonds fell 8 basis points to
9.29 percent as of 5:32 p.m. in Istanbul, the lowest level in
almost four months. Yields had peaked at 11.69 percent in
January, a 2 1/2-year high. The lira rose 0.2 percent to 1.7531
per dollar.  Lira May Gain  There is a 70 percent chance the lira will strengthen to
1.72 per dollar in the next three months, according to implied
probability calculated from currency options.  Turkey took the necessary measures to battle inflation,
though it may miss its year-end target by “a little,” central
bank Governor Erdem Basci said on Jan. 31. He lifted his
forecast for 2012 to 6.5 percent, compared with an official goal
of 5 percent. There’s no need for additional tightening in
monetary policy, Basci said.  “We’re talking about a small increase in annual inflation,
which is in line with central bank expectations,” said Nilufer Sezgin, chief economist at Istanbul-based brokerage Ekspres
Invest. “The outlook and risk perception abroad is good, and in
the short term, inflation is expected to hover at high levels.”  Food prices increased a monthly 1.1 percent in January and
transport prices rose 2.1 percent, the statistics office said.
The price of clothing slumped 7.9 percent.  Inflation in 12 months’ time was forecast at 6.91 percent
in a fortnightly survey of executives and economists published
by the central bank on Jan. 20. Predictions rose from 6.85
percent two weeks earlier.  Producer price inflation  declined to an annual 11.1 percent
from 13.3 percent in December, the office said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emre Peker in Ankara at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net ;
Ali Berat Meric in Ankara at 
 americ@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  