-- Vietnamese Coffee Sales Reached About 40% of Crop, Volcafe Says
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-02-03T13:54:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/vietnamese-coffee-sales-reached-about-40-of-crop-volcafe-says.html
Coffee farmers in  Vietnam , the
world’s largest producer of the robusta variety, have sold about
40 percent of the crop ending Sept. 30, according to Volcafe,
the coffee unit of commodities trader ED&F Man Holdings Ltd.  Growers in the Southeast Asian nation had been holding back
beans before the Tet festival, which marks the Lunar New Year,
awaiting better prices. Vietnam’s coffee exports may increase
this month as good weather helps beans to dry and the holiday
ends, said traders and officials. The sales pace may slow after
February as farmers wait for price direction, said Le Tien Hung,
deputy director of Sept. 2nd Import-Export Co., known as
Simexco, based in  Dak Lak  the biggest growing province.  “Liffe and disciplined farmer selling prevented a sell-off
in Vietnam,” Volcafe said in a report e-mailed to clients
today. “External demand is good for all qualities.”  Vietnamese coffee for shipment in March and April was at a
premium of $20 a metric ton to the price on the NYSE Liffe
exchange in  London , down from $40 a ton last week, data from the
Winterthur, Switzerland-based trader show.  Indonesian imports of Vietnamese beans are “picking up to
satisfy the local roaster demand,” according to the report.
Output in the third-largest robusta grower fell to 8.3 million
bags of 60 kilograms (132 pounds) in the 2011-12 season from 9.3
million bags a year earlier after rains damaged the crop, data
from the  U.S. Department of Agriculture show .  Indonesia  is the fourth biggest importer of Vietnamese
coffee, Volcafe said in the report.  Robusta coffee for March delivery rose 1.8 percent to
$1,833 a ton by 1:53 p.m. in London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 