-- Wall Street is Split Over the Bank Foreclosure Deal
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n   a n d   B r a d l e y   K e o u n
-- 2012-02-03T05:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/wall-street-split-as-money-managers-fault-bank-foreclosure-deal.html
Wall Street’s biggest lobbying group
is split over a proposed settlement of state and federal
foreclosure probes, after a committee of money managers signaled
it opposes terms letting banks push some costs onto bondholders.  The Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association’s
Asset Management Group planned to release a statement last week
urging government negotiators to protect innocent investors,
amid reports that banks will get credit for lowering the
balances of  mortgages  packaged into bonds, three people familiar
with the matter said. Sifma’s leadership said no. The  panel ’s
members oversee $20 trillion and include  BlackRock (BLK)  Inc. and
Pacific Investment Management Co.  Sifma elected not to issue the statement “because the
settlement surrounds potential legal issues involving the
commercial interests of many of our members,” said Cheryl Crispen, a spokeswoman for the group in New York. “Sifma
generally does not intervene in such matters and remains focused
on matters of policy and advocacy.”  The rift within Sifma follows investor advocates’
complaints that bondholder interests are often trumped by those
of the biggest banks when government officials act to address
the fallout from the U.S. housing slump. Language similar to the
planned statement was included in a Jan. 31  release  by the
Association of Mortgage Investors, a smaller trade group for
bondholders that unlike Sifma doesn’t also lobby on behalf of
firms that issue, underwrite, service and trade debt.  Deadline  All 50 states announced an investigation into foreclosure
practices in 2010 following disclosures that servicers were
using flawed documents in  seizing homes . A group of state
attorneys general and federal officials has since negotiated
terms of a proposed settlement.  Under the agreement, which would total about $25 billion if
 California  joins, banks would provide a minimum amount of
principal reductions on first- and second-lien loans, a person
familiar with the matter said.  States have until Feb. 6 to decide whether to sign on to
the deal with five firms including  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. , after delays as officials debated
liability releases and other terms. U.S. Senator  Sherrod Brown ,
an Ohio Democrat, and the Washington-based Association of
Mortgage Investors, whose members oversee $300 billion in bonds,
also earlier criticized the potential inclusion of modifications
on investor-owned loans.  “If the money managers don’t have a seat at the table,
going public is one way to blow the whistle,” said  James Post ,
a management professor at  Boston University .  Reaction in E-mail  Sifma’s comment letters to regulators often explain its
constituencies’ differing views on proposed rules. It also has
issued press releases expressing the asset management group’s
specific opinions. The panel’s members include BlackRock, the
world’s largest money manager, and Pimco, which runs the biggest
bond fund, as well as AllianceBernstein LP, whose executives
have led the group and  testified  to Congress on its behalf.  Mark Porterfield , a spokesman for  Newport Beach ,
California-based Pimco, declined to comment, as did Lauren Trengrove of New York-based BlackRock and  John Meyers  at
AllianceBernstein in New York.  Leaders of the panel told other participants in an e-mail
last week that Sifma won’t let the AMG’s voice be heard,
according to one of the people, who declined to be identified
because they weren’t authorized to comment. The panel’s press
release, which would have specified it represented the asset-
management group’s views, said bondholders oppose any agreement
that makes investors, including pensions and Main Street mutual
funds, pay for banks’ wrongdoing.  Flawed Documents  Their inability to put out the statement “demonstrates, as
many of us have been saying for a very long time, that Sifma is
ultimately a sell-side organization that claims to be
representative of both,” said  Joshua Rosner , an analyst at
research firm Graham Fisher & Co. “It’s why there has been so
little done to fix the underlying problems.” Sell-side refers
to firms that sell securities to investors and funds.  Under the proposed settlement, banks would receive credit
for cuts to mortgages they hold directly and those within
 securities  without government backing, said the person, who
wasn’t authorized to speak publicly about the matter. They would
earn about twice as much for their own loans. The settlement
wouldn’t require servicers to break contracts that say loans
should only be reworked if that’s better for bondholders than a
foreclosure, the person said.  While investors welcome modifications that reduce losses,
they’re concerned that banks will be tempted to skew
calculations to expand the pool of eligible debts and avoid the
costs themselves, said two of the people who knew of the planned
asset-manager statement.  Servicer Protection  In March, Sifma expressed concern in a  statement  about the
initial proposed terms. Changes to servicing standards were
being discussed in a “closed process” and extended foreclosure
timelines could create greater losses for investors, it said.  In 2009, Sifma’s lobbyists pushed for legislation offering
protection to mortgage servicers against lawsuits from investors
if they reworked loans in certain ways, and Congress eventually
passed a bill in a weakened form, according to “ Way Too Big to
Fail ,” a book last year by  Bill Frey , head of Greenwich
Financial Services LLC in Greenwich,  Connecticut .  “Sifma doesn’t represent investors, they represent a
handful of banks,” said Frey, who sued Bank of America after
its 2008 settlement with states over Countrywide Financial
Corp.’s practices. “Policy makers are trying to prop up the
banks, and in doing so, they are willing to raid the pensions of
this country.”  ‘Meaningful’ Relief  Brown, who heads the Senate’s Banking Subcommittee on
Financial Institutions and Consumer Protection, told Iowa
Attorney General  Tom Miller  and leaders of U.S. agencies
including the Department of Housing and Urban Development that,
while he wants “meaningful, widespread relief” for homeowners,
investors such as the state’s pension funds shouldn’t pay.  “Teachers, first responders,  law enforcement , and other
pensioners and retirees should not be penalized for wrongdoing
by  Wall Street ,” Brown wrote in a Jan. 19  letter .  HUD Secretary  Shaun Donovan  declined to comment on the
details of settlement talks at a Feb. 1 press conference, saying
“we are making good progress.” Officials expect that a
majority of the loan modifications will occur on loans owned by
banks, said Geoff Greenwood, a spokesman for Miller, who’s
helping to lead negotiations.  “We expect that banks will modify loans only when it’s
better for investors in the long run,” Greenwood said in an
interview.  Tom Kelly , a Chicago-based spokesman for JPMorgan, and  Dan Frahm  at Bank of America declined to comment.  Countrywide Settlement  The Sifma Asset Management Group’s leaders said in the e-
mail last week they may seek to release their statement through
the American Securitization Forum, a trade group with both bank
and investor members that split from Sifma in 2010, the people
said. Jon Teall, an ASF spokesman, declined to comment.  The Association of Mortgage Investors grew out of a
coalition that formed in 2008 as a result of bondholders’
displeasure over the settlement that year between state
attorneys general and Bank of America’s Countrywide unit, said
Chris Katopis, AMI’s executive director. It became a formal
 trade group  the next year. Doubleline Capital LP and Angelo
Gordon & Co. executives have testified to Congress on its
behalf.  “What AMI offers is an unconflicted voice for mortgage
investors,” Katopis said in a telephone interview, declining to
name its members. He said some of those firms, which can overlap
with Sifma’s, contribute language used in its statements and
that he hadn’t seen the proposed Sifma press release.  ‘Legal Challenge’  Frey, in his proposed class action suit against  Bank of
America , said bondholders were unfairly penalized by the firm’s
agreement to modify loans to settle charges of fraudulent
lending by Countrywide. His Greenwich Financial invests in,
creates and trades mortgage bonds, and advises bondholders.  That suit was dismissed in 2010, with a  New York  state
judge saying Frey didn’t own enough of the deals to have
standing. As the pending settlement develops, he said some
investors are eyeing the legal remedies available to bar the
government from taking private assets without fair compensation.  “If the attorneys general want to do something like this,
they are creating the possibility of a legal challenge,” Frey
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net ;
Bradley Keoun in New York at 
 bkeoun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  