-- Web Fury Spurs Komen Reversal, $3 Million for Planned Parenthood
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o   a n d   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-02-04T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/web-fury-spurs-komen-reversal-3-million-of-funds-for-planned-parenthood.html
Planned Parenthood  Federation of
America Inc., riding a powerful wave of Internet indignation,
raised $3 million in reaction to Susan G. Komen for the Cure’s
decision, reversed yesterday, to end its grants.  The dispute between Planned Parenthood and the breast-
cancer group Komen, two of the largest health advocacy groups
for U.S. women, concluded when Komen overturned its plan to call
off $680,000 in Planned Parenthood grants and said in a
statement it wanted to “apologize to the American people.”  Komen originally cited a congressional probe of Planned
Parenthood in declaring the group ineligible for funding.
Planned Parenthood said Komen was pressured by anti-abortion
forces, setting off a blaze of Internet protest on Twitter
Inc.,  Facebook Inc (FB) . and other websites.  “When it broke, it just caught fire,”  Cecile Richards ,
Planned Parenthood’s president, said yesterday in a conference
call. “This is an extraordinary outpouring of support.”  The money, pledged by more than 10,000 donors, will be used
exclusively for breast screening services, Richards said.  Komen, based in  Dallas , reinstated access to its grants in
a statement earlier in which it apologized “for recent
decisions that cast doubt upon our commitment to our mission of
saving women’s lives.”  While the disagreement between the two sides appears ended,
the debate continued as Carol Tobias, president of National
Right to Life Committee, said Komen’s decision to reverse its
decision will probably cost the  breast-cancer  advocacy group
contributions.  ‘Pro-Life Support’  “I think right now pro-lifers are going to be reluctant to
support them because the money may go to the country’s largest
abortion provider,” Tobias said in a telephone interview.  Mike Paul, president of MGP & Associates, a New York-based
reputation management firm, said Komen will have to “build up
trust” as a result of how the events unfolded.  Komen was the most valuable nonprofit brand in the world,
according to a 2010 report by  Harris Interactive , a  New York- 
based market research firm. Now, the brand may become part of
the political debate, Paul said.  “People wanted to be associated with every single thing
they did,” he said. “And now we hear politics and policy has
influence. The same affinity people had on the positive side
became the same affinity they’ve having on the negative
perspective,” he said.  Previously, Komen had said it pulled the grants because of
a probe by Representative  Cliff Stearns , a Florida Republican
and chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Oversight and
Investigations Subcommittee, into whether New York-based Planned
Parenthood is illegally using government money for abortions.  ‘Criminal and Conclusive’  The newest Komen criteria say investigations must be
“criminal and conclusive in nature and not political” to
affect grant funding, Chief Executive Officer Nancy Brinker said
in a statement. “That is what is right and fair.”  Planned Parenthood is now eligible for the next grant cycle
and can apply to renew the $680,000 it currently receives from
Komen. “I take them at their word that this is behind us,”
Richards said.  Among Planned Parenthood’s $3 million in pledges were
$700,000 from three large benefactors, including New York Mayor
 Michael Bloomberg . Bloomberg is the founder and majority owner
of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  Komen provides $93 million in grants to local communities
for breast-cancer education, screening and treatment. It is
known for the pink ribbons it first distributed to breast-cancer
survivors and participants of the Komen New York City Race for
the Cure in 1991, according to its website. The foundation also
funds research on the disease.  Organization’s ‘Essence’  “The essence of the organization” has been obscured by
the Planned Parenthood dispute, Brinker said Feb. 2 on a call
with reporters. Brinker founded  the group  in 1982 after her
sister, Susan G. Komen, died of breast cancer.  Social media fueled the wildfire-like spread of the
controversy, said MGP’s Paul, adding, “the conversation that
used to be only over the dinner table is now in a tweet or a
Facebook status update in the millions.”  Two-thirds of more than 3,600 sentiments expressed online
about the split were negative to Komen, according to  NetBase
Solutions Inc.,  a  Mountain View , California-based company whose
software reads and interprets 50,000 sentences a minute from
billions of social media sources.  The  negative reviews  of Komen on GreatNonprofits.org, a
review system for non-profit organizations, increased 300
percent after the initial announcement that Komen halted funding
of Planned Parenthood, according to an e-mail from Molly
Niffenegger, a spokeswoman for the website.  Internet Petitions  About 250,000 people had signed a petition on the website
MoveOn.org, a political supporter of President  Barack Obama ,
calling on Komen to reverse its decision, Sarah Lane, a
spokeswoman, said. San Francisco-based Credo, the mobile phone
provider that is Planned Parenthood’s largest corporate funder,
had a petition that garnered 350,000 supporters, said Becky
Bond, the company’s political director.  “We’ve seen that Planned Parenthood needs fierce defenders
who believe in supporting women’s health,” Bond said.  Credo earlier this week pledged $200,000 in response to the
Komen decision.  The supporters’ petitions were countered by groups such as
thankskomen.com, which said it opposed Planned Parenthood,  Planned Parenthood advocates abortion rights and provides
abortion services as well as offering breast exams and mammogram
referrals. Komen grants paid for about 4.3 percent of the 4
million breast exams and 9 percent of the 70,000 mammogram
referrals provided at clinics in the past five years.  Abortion Debate  The debate over abortion percolates in American politics,
and has figured in the 2012 campaign for the Republican
nomination for president as candidates such as former
Massachusetts Governor  Mitt Romney , former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  and former Pennsylvania Senator  Rick Santorum  have
pledged to stop abortions in almost all cases.  After Komen’s decision to restore Planned Parenthood’s
eligibility, Republicans and Democrats switched sides in
praising and criticizing the group.  “I am deeply disappointed in the sudden reversal by the
Komen Foundation of their original pledge to cut ties with
Planned Parenthood,” said Representative Renee Ellmers, a North
Carolina Republican.  Senator  David Vitter , a Louisiana Republican, said the
Komen foundation “caved to political pressure from the pro-
abortion movement.”  ‘A Great Day’  Democrats, who had criticized Komen earlier, yesterday
praised the group. “It’s a great day when our deeply held
belief that breast cancer can only be wiped out if we all work
together has triumphed over right-wing politics,” Senator
 Barbara Boxer , a California Democrat, said in a statement.  Abortion is among the volatile issues that may produce
dangerous consequences for nonpolitical groups that become part
of the debate.  “There’s this scorched-earth policy in politics,” said
James Gregory, CEO of CoreBrand, a brand consulting company in
 New York , said in a telephone interview. “There’s a willingness
to destroy anything that crosses you politically.” he said in a
telephone interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in New York at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net ;
Drew Armstrong in New York at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  