-- Weyerhaeuser Profit Beats as Sales of Housing in U.S. Rise
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2012-02-03T16:23:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/weyerhaeuser-advances-after-earnings-beat-analysts-estimates.html
Weyerhaeuser Co. (WY)  rose the most in six
weeks after the U.S. lumber producer and home builder reported
fourth-quarter profit that beat analysts’ estimates as earnings
from home-and-lot sales rose.  Weyerhaeuser rose 4.2 percent to $21.00 at 11:26 a.m. in
 New York  after earlier rising as much as 5.3 percent to $21.20.
Shares of the Federal Way, Washington-based real-estate
investment trust have risen 7.9 percent this year through
yesterday.  Pretax earnings from Weyerhaeuser’s real estate division
increased to $41 million, buoyed by sales of land and
residential lots, the company said in a statement. Profit
compares with $13 million a year earlier.  In the fourth quarter, “home closings increased 15 percent
to 582 single-family homes,” compared to the third quarter, the
company said. “Average margins on homes closed improved due to
mix.”  Weyerhaeuser has fired workers, shut down wood-product
mills and sold off land for residential development to help the
company weather a protracted slump in demand for new homes in
the U.S. that was exacerbated by the global economic downturn.  Higher Than Estimates  Fourth-quarter net income fell to $65 million, or 12 cents
a share, from $171 million, or 32 cents, compared with a year
earlier, the company said in the statement. Profit excluding
one-time items such as costs for restructuring and plant
closures was 14 cents, beating the 6.4 cents average of 10
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The pretax loss at its wood products unit in the quarter
was $80 million, the company said today in a statement. A year
earlier the loss was a $188 million.  “Excluding special items, Weyerhaeuser anticipates a
smaller loss from the wood products segment in the first
quarter,” compared with the fourth quarter, the company said in
the statement.  Weyerhaeuser said it also expects “slightly higher selling
prices for lumber and oriented strand board and increased sales
volumes across all product lines.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  