-- What Harvard Owes Its Top Asian-American Applicants: Stephen Hsu
-- B y   S t e p h e n   H s u
-- 2012-02-03T01:05:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/what-harvard-owes-its-top-asian-american-applicants-stephen-hsu.html
It’s a common belief among Asian-
American families that their children are held to higher
academic standards than college applicants from other ethnic
groups. Such practices were openly acknowledged after
investigations at universities like Berkeley and Stanford in the
1980s and 1990s.  Have they been corrected?  The U.S. Education Department  is investigating  complaints
that  Harvard University  and  Princeton University  discriminated
against Asian-Americans in undergraduate admissions.  Statistics seem to support the claim of bias across most of
elite higher education. For example, in comprehensive data
compiled as part of Duke University’s Campus Life and Learning
project (as reported in a recent analysis by Duke economist
 Peter Arcidiacono  and collaborators), Asian-Americans who
enrolled at the school in 2001 averaged 1457 out of 1600 on the
math and reading part of the SAT, compared with 1416 for whites,
1347 for Hispanics and 1275 for blacks.  Holistic Admissions  There is every reason to believe that a similar pattern
holds at nearly all elite universities in the U.S., with notable
exceptions such as the  California Institute of Technology . In
fact, Duke may be one of the mildest offenders when it comes to
Asian-American admissions: With the goal of increasing its
overall student quality, Duke has reportedly been more friendly
recently to Asian-American applicants than traditional powers
such as Harvard and Princeton.  Schools like Harvard and Princeton brag that each year they
reject numerous applicants such as Jian Li (who filed a
complaint against Princeton) who score a perfect 2400 on the
SAT. How would we feel if it were revealed that almost all of
these rejected top scorers, year after year, were Asian-
Americans? I challenge Harvard and Princeton to refute this
possibility.  To be fair, most elite universities practice what is known
as  holistic admissions : Each candidate is evaluated on a variety
of measures, including athletic and leadership activities in
addition to academic performance. It is possible that the gap in
academic average between Asian-American and white admitted
students is compensated by gaps in the opposite direction on
these other variables. Looking again at internal evaluations by
Duke’s admissions office, we find Asian-Americans had higher
averages than whites in the following categories: achievement,
curriculum (each about one-third of a standard deviation) and
letters of recommendation, while trailing very slightly (less
than one-tenth of a standard deviation) in personal qualities.  Lacking data on factors such as legacy and recruited
athlete status, we can’t make a complete determination of the
fairness of the process, and in fact the appropriate weight of
the various factors in a holistic admissions process will be
subject to vigorous debate.  Nevertheless, this exercise in admissions forensics
indicates how applicants can be reassured of its evenhandedness.
The Department of Education will seek data of this sort in
making its determination in its inquiry concerning Harvard and
Princeton.  Require Openness  Any educational institution, public or private, that
receives significant government support should be required to
release aggregate admissions data of this kind, which includes
information about ethnicity, legacy and athletic status, and all
other variables of significant weight in the decision.  Transparency is essential to this important discussion, and
the requirement could easily be mandated by the Department of
Education. Why are admissions practices at a small number of
universities that account for only tiny fraction of all U.S.
undergraduates of such importance? For the simple reason that
these universities are disproportionately responsible for
producing future leaders, innovators, scientists and scholars.
They are the stewards of some of the best human capital from
around the world.  Further, top U.S. universities are seen as exemplars of
excellence by educational institutions here and abroad. It is
terribly corrosive to use race as an important factor in what
are superficially (disingenuously?) described as meritocratic
evaluations. Perhaps the most objectionable outcome is to
produce a distribution of students on campus whose intellectual
strength is strongly correlated to their race. Surely this is
exactly the opposite of what  Martin Luther King  wanted when he
asked us to judge people not by the color of their skin, but by
the content of their character.  (Stephen Hsu is professor of theoretical physics at the
University of  Oregon  and director of its Institute for
Theoretical Science. He is the founder of two Silicon Valley
information security startups and writes the blog  Information
Processing. )  To contact the writer of this article:
Stephen Hsu at  hsu@uoregon.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 