-- Twitter Vies With YouTube for Attention of Super Bowl Fans Surfing IPads
-- B y   H e a t h e r   P e r l b e r g
-- 2012-02-03T18:10:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/twitter-vies-with-youtube-for-super-bowl-fans-surfing-on-ipads.html
Aaron Magness plans to watch the
 Super Bowl  this weekend on his 55-inch screen television, with
an iPhone in one hand and an iPad at his hip.  For the 34-year-old marketing executive, this weekend’s
game is only part of the fun. Interacting with friends about
what’s happening on the field -- and with those TV commercials 
-- will keep Magness tapped into Twitter and Facebook as well.  “I can easily armchair quarterback on a much larger
scale,” said Magness, a vice president of marketing for online
eyewear company  Coastal Contacts Inc. (COA)  in  Vancouver . “Instead of
telling my friends next to me, ‘I can’t believe he called that
timeout,’ now I can tell 2,000 followers.”  The proliferation of tablets and smartphones has combined
with the rifeness of social media to spark a flurry of online
activity during televised games. Advertisers such as  Coca-Cola
Co. (KO)  and  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  have taken notice, turning to YouTube and
Twitter to generate buzz and stretch the $3.5 million on average
they had to pay for a 30-second spot on  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC
Super Bowl telecast.  “There’s a concerted effort to create more value out of
the advertising during, but also after the actual event,” Radha
Subramanyam, senior vice president of media analytics for media-
viewership tracker Nielsen, said in an interview. It’s
interactive TV in a way that was never quite imagined, she said.  “Especially for event television, we find the No. 1 thing
that people are doing online is some form of social-media
engagement,” Subramanyam said.  IPad Effect  The biggest event comes Feb. 5, when 115 million people are
predicted by  Brad Adgate  of Horizon Media Inc. to tune in for
the rematch of the  New York Giants  and  New England Patriots  in
U.S. professional football’s championship game. The Super Bowl
is typically the most-watched U.S. broadcast of the year.  The last time the Giants and Patriots met in a Super Bowl,
in 2008, tablets were barely used and Apple Inc.’s iPhone was
newly introduced. Twitter hadn’t hit the mainstream, and TV
watchers got on Facebook from clunkier computers. It’s a
different world today, said Adam Cahan, chief executive officer
at IntoNow, a companion screen application owned by  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)   “Tablets changed the world because of the way people are
using them constantly,” Cahan said in an interview. “The iPad
experience is one that marries itself incredibly well to
television.”  ‘Two-Screen Experience’  An estimated 144 million Americans own tablet computers or
smartphones, said  Roger Entner , an analyst at Recon Analytics
LLC. Of those, 40 percent use the devices daily while watching
television, according to Nielsen. Of that tally, half of the
tablet owners and 42 percent of the smartphone users also visit
social sites such as those run by Twitter Inc. and  Facebook Inc. (FB) 
while watching TV, Nielsen said.  “There’s no going back now from the fact that the Super
Bowl is truly a two-screen experience,” Krishna Subramanian,
chief marketing officer of Velti Plc, a provider of mobile
marketing and advertising technology, said in a statement.  A Velti poll conducted by  Harris Interactive  last month
showed almost 60 percent of mobile users plan to look at or use
their devices during the game. “Mobile is the second screen
that completes the full circle of user engagement -- turning
advertising into content,” Subramanian said.  YouTube ‘Ad Blitz’  YouTube, the video-posting service owned by  Google Inc. (GOOG) , is
promoting an “Ad Blitz” program that lets Super Bowl viewers
follow along during the game online, replaying their favorite
commercials once they’ve aired on TV. Last year about 5 percent
of YouTube traffic the day after Super Bowl was about ads and
almost 13 percent of those views were through mobile devices,
according to Google.  “This year we expect mobile to play an even greater
role,” Dan Schock, Google’s retail industry director, said in
an interview. “Mobile traffic on YouTube has tripled from a
year ago. They see about 600 million views a day on mobile
YouTube and so I would imagine we’ll have a lot of multitasking
going on during the game.”  Apple’s iPad made up 58 percent of the global tablet market
as of the fourth quarter, while tablets running on Google’s
Android operating system accounted for 39 percent, according to
 Strategy Analytics . The iPhone is the single best-selling
smartphone. The Android operating system, which is made
available by Google to multiple handset makers, is more widely
used, commanding about half the smartphone market.  Twitter Distraction  Oregon native Joey Keeran, who doesn’t closely follow
either Super Bowl team, said he will probably keep his iPhone
available to peruse the Twitter commentary about commercials.  “A lot of the time I’ll have to remind myself to watch the
game instead of what everybody is tweeting,” Keeran said.  Twitter, the San Francisco-based microblogging service that
lets users send 140-character messages to whomever chooses to
care, boasts more than 100 million users.  “One of the reasons we’re seeing social media during a TV
event” is because of smartphones, said Rishab Ghosh, co-founder
of San Francisco-based Topsy Labs Inc., which runs a website
that searches data on Twitter. “You wouldn’t really go to your
computer and do it.”  The week the Pittsburgh Steelers played the  Denver Broncos 
in a National Football League playoff game last month, 1.5
million Twitter posts mentioned Broncos quarterback  Tim Tebow .
The reaction to his game-winning touchdown pass set a Twitter
sports record, the company said in a Jan. 13 blog post.  Happy Marriage  The NFL, which once fined Patriots wide receiver Chad Ochocinco $25,000 for using Twitter during a 2010 preseason game
when he played for the  Cincinnati Bengals , is now getting the
message. The league temporarily loosened its social-media policy
for the Jan. 29  Pro Bowl  in  Hawaii , where players were
encouraged to use Twitter during the game. The league normally
prohibits players from using Twitter from 90 minutes before
kickoff until after they finish postgame media obligations.  For the Super Bowl, newspaper USA Today and Facebook, the
world’s largest social network, created a voting application for
users to weigh in on the commercials.  Menlo Park , California-
based Facebook, which this week filed to raise $5 billion in the
largest Internet initial public offering on record, had 425
million users who accessed its mobile service in December,
according to the IPO filing.  Last year, more than 300 million people watched Super Bowl
ads online, almost triple the number that watch the game on TV,
according to Google.  Social media is becoming the main companion for television,
Nielsen’s Subramanyam said.  It’s “a very symbiotic happy marriage,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Perlberg in New York at 
 hperlberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  