-- Keystone XL Bill Would Strip Agencies’ Power, Officials Say
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2012-02-03T22:55:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/two-agencies-to-lose-roles-under-keystone-xl-bill-officials-say.html
A Republican-backed bill giving the
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission power to approve
 TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s Keystone XL pipeline would remove two
federal agencies from oversight, officials of the Interior
Department and U.S.  Army Corps  of Engineers said.  The Interior Department is responsible for monitoring
construction and maintenance of pipelines on U.S. land, and the
legislation makes FERC the “sole federal agency responsible for
the project,” Mike Pool, deputy director of Interior’s Bureau
of Land Management, said today at a House subcommittee hearing
in  Washington . The Corps would lose its permitting authority for
the pipeline, an official said.  Republicans are pressing to start work on the $7 billion
pipeline from  Canada  to U.S.  Gulf Coast  refineries, which was
delayed by President  Barack Obama  in November to consider an
alternate route. Last year, lawmakers unhappy with Obama’s
decision set Feb. 21 to issue a permit. Obama denied the
request, citing a lack of time for a review.  Representative  Lee Terry , a Nebraska Republican who backs
the pipeline, introduced legislation requiring FERC to issue a
permit for the 1,661 mile (2,673 kilometer) pipeline within 30
days after receiving the application, provided the project is
deemed safe. The House Energy and Commerce Committee plans to
vote on the legislation Feb. 7.  ‘Enough Time’  The pipeline requires State Department approval because the
line would cross an international border. Calgary-based
TransCanada submitted its application to the agency in September
2008.  “President Obama has had more than enough time and
information” to approve the project, House Energy and Commerce
Committee Chairman Fred Upton, a Michigan Republican, said today
in a statement. “It’s time for Congress to take this decision
out of the president’s hands,” he said.  The bill strips the Corps of Engineers of its role in
reviewing and approving pipelines, Margaret Gaffney-Smith, chief
of the Corps’ regulatory program, said at the hearing. It also
poses jurisdictional and legal issues, officials from the State
Department and FERC told the House subcommittee Jan. 25. FERC
doesn’t have the authority to site oil pipelines.  Keystone XL advocates, including some labor unions, have
said the pipeline will create as many as 20,000 jobs. Opponents
say it will endanger  Nebraska ’s water supplies, and ultimately
lead to oil exports.  Export Bar Proposed  House Democrats led by Representative  Edward Markey  of
 Massachusetts  today introduced a measure that would prevent
exports of the crude transported by the pipeline from Alberta to
the Gulf Coast.  “Other countries shouldn’t be allowed to bisect our
country with a pipeline and then bypass our citizens to send the
oil abroad,” Markey said in a statement.  The legislation “gives the pipeline an unprecedented
regulatory earmark,” Representative Henry Waxman, a California
Democrat who has led opposition, said. It directs FERC to
approve the pipeline “even though we don’t yet know what route
it will take through the state of Nebraska.”  Koch Industries Inc. of Wichita, Kansas, may benefit from
the pipeline’s construction, said Waxman, who criticized
Republicans for not inviting company executives or officials
from Calgary-based TransCanada to testify.  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer Warren E. Buffett may benefit if the pipeline isn’t
built because its Burlington Northern Santa Fe LLC unit may end
up hauling the crude by rail, Whitfield said.  Neither Koch nor Buffett were invited to testify because
they don’t have a direct financial interest in the pipeline,
Whitfield said.  The bill is H.R. 3548.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  