-- Xstrata’s Davis Unlikely to Give Up Helm of Mine Giant He Built
-- B y   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n   a n d   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2012-02-03T12:10:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/xstrata-s-mick-davis-unlikely-to-turn-over-helm-of-mining-giant-he-built.html
For Mick Davis, the 53-year-old South
African who runs  Xstrata Plc (XTA) , the approach from commodities
trader Glencore International Plc is unlikely to prompt him to
surrender the helm of the mining company he built through a
decade of dealmaking.  “The legacy is building one of the premier, largest metals
and mining companies in the world, and having done so in a
versatile manner,” said Jeff Largey, a mining analyst at
Macquarie Group Ltd. in London.  Glencore, which already holds 34 percent of Zug,
Switzerland-based Xstrata, made an approach regarding an all-
share “merger of equals,” Xstrata said yesterday. The combined
company may be valued at about 56 billion pounds ($89 billion)
after excluding Glencore’s 12.6 billion-pound stake in Xstrata.
Glencore has until March 1 to make a formal offer.  Davis’s rival for the role of running a combined company
would be Ivan Glasenberg, 55, a fellow South African and former
coal trader who led Baar, Switzerland-based Glencore to its $10
billion initial public offering in  London  in May. A Glencore
spokesman declined to comment on the CEO position.  Davis may win the CEO job, people familiar with the
situation said yesterday. The companies are discussing an equal
share of board representation and top executive slots, one of
the people said.  ‘Davis Must Lead’  “Mick Davis becoming the CEO of the combined entity makes
sense,” said  Charles Cooper , an analyst at Oriel Securities in
London, who has covered resources for 15 years. “I don’t think
he’s ready to retire. Xstrata management would want to have an
upper hand in the new company.”  Davis wasn’t available to be interviewed for this story.  The allocation of management roles will be key to the
deal’s success, Liberum Capital Ltd. said in a note to investors
today. While that outcome is unclear for now, “the only area
where we have conviction is that Xstrata CEO Mick Davis must
have a lead role in the combined entity,” it said.  When Davis joined Xstrata in 2001, it had a market value of
about $500 million and about the same level of debt, he told a
Melbourne Mining Club  dinner  in London eight years later. Within
two months of his arrival, the company had to seek a waiver from
banks on its debt covenants.  Xstrata is now the world’s biggest exporter of coal burned
by power stations and the fourth-largest producer of copper,
with 2010 sales of $30.5 billion. Under Davis, it has gone from
having a staff of fewer than 2,500 to a workforce exceeding
70,000 in 20 countries.  Backing Mick  “He’s very associated with it,” said Michael Rawlinson, a
former JPMorgan Chase & Co. investment banker who is now a
mining analyst at Liberum Capital Ltd. in London. When
shareholders back Xstrata, “they are kind of backing Mick too,
to the extent that an Xstrata without Mick is less valid.”  Davis grew up in  South Africa ’s Eastern Cape, where he
became the country’s youngest qualified cricket umpire. He
graduated with a bachelor’s degree from Rhodes University,
before becoming an accountant. He left that firm in 1986 to join
Eskom Holdings SOC Ltd.,  Africa ’s largest power supplier, as
executive director.  In 1994, Davis was hired as finance director of South
African miner Gencor Ltd. after “narrowly losing out on the
appointment as CEO” of Eskom, according to former Gencor
Chairman Brian Gilbertson. The two men turned Gencor into what
became Billiton Plc.  Mining Character  Billiton moved its headquarters to London in 1997 and the
following year acquired nickel producer QNI Ltd. and South
Africa’s Ingwe Coal Corp. In 2001, Billiton was bought by
Melbourne-based BHP Ltd., and Davis left to join Xstrata.  Oriel’s Cooper said Davis is “one of the strongest
characters” in mining. “He is the kind of person who can cope
with the Glencore board and the entrepreneurial character of the
company.”  Xstrata sold shares to investors in London in 2002. It
bought Australian copper and zinc producer M.I.M. Holdings Ltd.
in 2003 for A$5.13 billion ($5.49 billion) including debt. Three
years later, it bought Canadian nickel producer Falconbridge
Ltd. for $18 billion.  “He has created one of the major diversified mining
companies, at first through M&A, which required real insight and
real conviction,” Macquarie’s Largey said.  Davis has also experienced failures along the way. In March
2008,  Vale SA (VALE3) , the world’s largest iron-ore producer, broke off
talks to acquire Xstrata for cash and shares, blaming opposition
from Glencore, the target’s main shareholder.  Lonmin Bid  Xstrata abandoned a hostile bid for platinum producer
Lonmin Plc in October 2008 after metal prices plunged, and it
was forced to drop a proposed merger with  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  in
2009 after a rejection from Anglo’s board.  Away from Xstrata, a key interest for Davis is the United
Jewish Israel Appeal. He is chairman of the London-based
charity, which aims to help guarantee a sustainable and positive
future for the people of the Galil in northern Israel and the
Jewish community of the U.K.  Davis lives in Hampstead, in London, and is married with
three children.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Firat Kayakiran in London at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net ;
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  