-- Yuan Halts Four-Day Gain as Non-Manufacturing Industries Slow
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2012-02-03T09:07:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/yuan-halts-four-day-gain-as-non-manufacturing-industries-slow.html
China ’s yuan fell, paring a weekly
advance, as data showed expansion in the nation’s non-
manufacturing industries slowed.  The currency snapped a four-day gain after a purchasing
managers’ index declined to 52.9 last month from 56 in December,
the National Bureau of Statistics and China Federation of
Logistics and Purchasing said in a statement today in Beijing. A
reading above 50 indicates growth. The People’s Bank of China
set the yuan’s daily reference rate weaker after fixing it
stronger in the past two days as Asian currencies dropped
against the dollar.  “We are looking for more weakness in growth in the first
half and naturally the pace of yuan appreciation will slow
before it catches up in the second half,” said Andy Ji, a
Singapore-based currency strategist at  Commonwealth Bank of
Australia .  The yuan weakened 0.02 percent to 6.3028 per dollar in
 Shanghai , according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System.
The currency rose 0.6 percent this week. The central bank set
the fixing 0.04 percent weaker at 6.3102. The yuan is allowed to
trade 0.5 percent on either side of the rate.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  has pledged to expand services and
consumer spending to boost jobs and help sustain growth as
 Europe ’s debt crisis threatens exports and property sales slide.
The government said it will increase credit to small companies,
including some service providers, and local authorities are
raising minimum wages, pensions and welfare payments.  Gary Shilling, president of New Jersey-based consultancy
firm A. Gary Shilling & Co., said weaker demand overseas will
subdue Chinese growth and the economy is headed for a “hard
landing” in 2012.  Exports, CPI Data  Gross domestic product increased 8.9 percent in the fourth
quarter from a year earlier, the statistics bureau said on Jan.
17, the least since the three months ended June 2009. The median
estimate in a Bloomberg survey was 8.7 percent. China is due to
report data on consumer prices and exports next week.  In  Hong Kong ’s offshore market, the yuan slipped 0.1
percent this week to 6.2933 and gained 0.03 percent today.
Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards fell 0.2 percent this week
to 6.2740 and were little changed today, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The contracts were at a 0.5 percent
premium to the onshore spot rate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Beijing at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  