-- Hyundai Heavy Falls as Operating Profit Misses Expectations: Seoul Mover
-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 2012-02-03T06:59:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/hyundai-heavy-falls-as-operating-profit-misses-expectations-seoul-mover.html
Hyundai Heavy Industries Co. (009540) , the
world’s largest shipbuilder, had the biggest drop in almost
three months in Seoul trading after reporting lower-than-
expected operating profit.  The  company  declined 7.7 percent, the most since Nov. 10,
to close at 293,000 won. The stock was the  fourth-worst
performer  among 1,004 companies in the MSCI Asia Pacific Index.  Operating profit in the fourth quarter fell 62 percent from
a year earlier as the shipbuilder worked through vessel orders
won at reduced prices during the global financial crisis that
began in 2008. The company is now focusing on more complex
products for the energy sector, such as drill ships and floating
production units, to revive profit margins.  “The market was expecting a decline in operating profit,
but not this much,” said Lee Ji Hoon, an analyst at SK
Securities Co. in  Seoul . “Earnings may have hit a bottom in the
fourth quarter, but it will take a while before any improvement
is seen because of the weak demand for ships.”  Hyundai Heavy’s operating  profit , or sales minus the cost
of goods sold and administrative expenses, fell to 404.6 billion
won for the three months ended Dec. 31, the Ulsan, South Korea-
based company said in a filing today. The market was expecting
about 500 billion won, Lee said.  Net income  in the period
dropped 91 percent to 71.3 billion won.  Today’s share-price decline trimmed Hyundai Heavy’s gain
this year to 14 percent, compared with an 8 percent gain for
 South Korea ’s benchmark Kospi index.  Hyundai Heavy won orders for a record 11 drill ships last
year. The shipyard’s contracts for  oil tankers , container ships
and dry-bulk vessels halved to 23 last year because of
competition from  China  and a drop in global orders caused by a
capacity glut.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  