-- Hyundai Says U.S. Sales Growth May Slow on Plant Constraints
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n   a n d   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2012-02-03T19:52:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/hyundai-says-u-s-sales-growth-may-slow-on-plant-constraints.html
Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) ,  South Korea ’s
largest automaker, said tight production capacity and concern
that quality might suffer may slow U.S. sales gains in 2012.  “What we’re trying to do is plant some seeds for future
long-term growth, maybe giving up some short-term sales this
year and next,”  John Krafcik , chief executive officer of
Hyundai’s U.S. sales unit, said today at a conference in Las
Vegas hosted by J.D. Power & Associates. “It would be very easy
at this period of great growth to make a mistake on quality.”  Hyundai’s tone going into 2012 differs from past years,
when the Seoul-based automaker set ambitious growth targets.
U.S. sales for Hyundai surged 61 percent in the past four years
as new models and improved designs drew attention to a brand
historically known more for value-oriented models.  Industrywide U.S. light-vehicle sales may rise at least
6 percent to 13.6 million this year, the average estimate of
18 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg in January. Hyundai hasn’t
given a U.S. sales target for 2012, after posting a 20 percent
gain last year.  Hyundai’s Montgomery, Alabama, plant that builds Sonata
sedans and Elantra small cars produced a record 338,000 vehicles
in 2011. That’s about 10 percent more than what the company
expected entering the year, Krafcik said.  There is “probably not that same kind of opportunity” to
replicate that production gain in 2012, he told reporters.  Hyundai has a “similar opportunity” to increase output of
Santa Fe sport-utility vehicles from the factory in West Point,
Georgia, where the company has a contract with affiliate  Kia
Motors Corp. (000270)  That plant supplied about 90,000 vehicles for
Hyundai last year, Krafcik said.  “We’re definitely going to grow retail market share,”
Krafcik said. “It’s hard to say on the fleet side where it’s
going to go.” The company said last month that fleet sales were
10 percent of its U.S. total in 2011.  Hyundai probably won’t lose U.S. market share this year, he
said. The automaker will benefit from new models such as the
Azera large sedan and Veloster three-door coupe, Krafcik said.  Hyundai’s U.S. sales unit is in  Costa Mesa ,  California .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in Las Vegas at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Trudell in  Las Vegas  at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  