-- Zynga Surges for Second Day After Facebook IPO Filing: San Francisco Mover
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2012-02-03T21:14:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-03/zynga-shares-jump-after-facebook-ipo-filing.html
Zynga Inc. (ZNGA) , the biggest developer of
games for social-networking sites, climbed 26 percent in two
days, boosted by Facebook Inc.’s initial public offering  filing .  The shares rose 8.1 percent to $13.39 at the close,
bringing their year-to-date gain to 42 percent. The stock got a
lift after Facebook reported that 12 percent of its revenue
comes from Zynga, which makes such games as “CityVille” and
“Texas HoldEm Poker” for the site.  Facebook’s IPO prospectus -- which helped bolster other
Internet stocks, including Groupon Inc. and Renren Inc. --showed
how reliant the social network is on Zynga, said  Colin Sebastian , analyst at Robert W. Baird & Co. in San Francisco.  “Seeing in black and white that Facebook and Zynga have
this close relationship is meaningful,” said Sebastian, who has
an “outperform” rating on Zynga shares, which he doesn’t own
himself. It means Facebook “wants Zynga to do well,” he said.  While Facebook depends on Zynga, Zynga is far more reliant
on Facebook. The game developer gets more than 90 percent of its
revenue from the social-networking site. Users buy Facebook
Credits in Zynga games, with Facebook keeping 30 percent of
sales from the transactions.  Facebook made $188 million from payments and other fees in
the fourth quarter of last year, a jump of 21 percent over the
preceding quarter. That growth could be a sign Zynga will beat
estimates for fourth-quarter sales when it reports earnings this
month, Sebastian said.  “That’s a good number,” he said. “That’s certainly a lot
more than what anyone had modeled for Zynga’s quarter-over-
quarter growth.”  Zynga’s stock has climbed six days in a row, giving it a
bigger bump than when the shares debuted in December. The shares
declined in their first two days of trading, falling 10 percent,
followed by two days of small gains.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas Macmillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  