-- Campaign Donor Advertising Rule Invalidated by U.S. Judge
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g   a n d   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2012-03-31T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-31/campaign-donor-advertising-rule-thrown-out-by-u-s-judge-1-.html
The U.S.  Federal Election
Commission  overstepped its authority by allowing groups that
give money for election advertising to withhold the names of
their donors from the public, a federal judge ruled.  U.S. District Judge Amy Berman Jacksonin  Washington 
yesterday threw out FEC regulations adopted in 2007 that let
organizations and nonprofit groups keep secret the names of
donors who pay for pre-election ads. She said the regulations
clashed with requirements of the 2002 campaign finance law known
as McCain-Feingold that groups report their ad spending to the
commission.  “When the agency determined in this instance that the
statute should be revised in light of legal developments, it
undertook a legislative, policy making function that was beyond
the scope of its authority,” Jackson said in her 31-page
ruling.  Democratic Representative  Chris Van Hollen  of  Maryland  sued
the FEC last year, arguing that McCain-Feingold requires full
disclosure of funders who contribute $1,000 or more for so-
called electioneering communications. Those messages are
broadcast or cable ads identifying a federal candidate within 30
days of a primary or 60 days of the general election.  “This is good news for our democracy and for voters --this
victory will compel the FEC to require enhanced disclosures of
the funders of campaign-related advertisements,”  Van Hollen 
said in a statement.  Citizens United’s Promise  Paul Ryan , an attorney with the Washington-based Campaign
Legal Center and a member of Van Hollen’s legal team, said in an
interview, “This FEC rule that was invalidated is one of the
reasons voters don’t have all the information that the Citizens
United court promised we’d have.”  Julia Queen, a spokeswoman for the FEC, declined to comment
on the ruling.  The FEC argued that the rule was designed in response to a
2007 Supreme Court decision that gave companies, labor unions
and interest groups more power to run broadcast ads before
elections.  The FEC disclosure rule has allowed nonprofit groups such
as the U.S. Chamber of Commerce,  Karl Rove ’s Crossroads GPS and
Priorities USA, a group supporting President Barrack Obama, to
spend millions of dollars on elections without disclosing their
donors.  Groups that don’t disclose their donors spent $137 million
in the 2010 elections, 25 times the amount they spent during the
previous off-year elections in 2006, Federal Election Commission
records show.  The case is Van Hollen v. Federal Election Commission,
11-0766, U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  