-- Carnival Ship Released to Sail From Port as Deal Is Struck
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2012-03-31T22:54:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-31/carnival-ship-released-to-sail-as-deal-struck-lawyer-says-1-.html
A  Carnival Corp. (CCL)  cruise liner was
released to sail from a  Texas  port by a U.S. judge who ordered
it seized yesterday in a lawsuit over a death in the Costa
Concordia shipwreck off Italy.  U.S. Magistrate Judge John Froeschner released the MS
Carnival Triumph today from a seizure order holding the cruise
liner in its home port of Galveston, said John Eaves Jr., a
lawyer for the victim’s family.  The Triumph, which is owned by the same company that owns
the Costa Concordia, was sought as security in a  lawsuit  that
was also filed March 30 in Galveston federal court by the family
of Siglinde Stumpf, a German tourist who died in the shipwreck.  “The matter involving the Carnival Triumph has been
resolved, and the ship is now expected to depart from Galveston
momentarily,” said Jennifer De La Cruz, a spokeswoman for
Miami-based Carnival, the world’s largest cruise-ship operator.  The Triumph was allowed to board passengers and cargo while
the seizure order was in effect. The 2,758-passenger ship
provides year-round service from the Houston area to ports in
the Caribbean and  Mexico . It was scheduled to depart around 4
p.m. local time today for a five-day trip to Yucatan and
Cozumel.  Shot Over the Bow  Eaves said in a telephone interview earlier today that the
Triumph could be freed from the seizure order if the cruise line
agreed to post a $10 million security bond in the German
tourist’s lawsuit. Details of the resolution, which was reached
about 30 minutes before departure time, are confidential, Eaves
said in an e-mailed statement.  Eaves, based in Jackson,  Mississippi , said he’s part of an
international consumer movement lobbying for increased oversight
and safety standards in the global cruise industry. He said 16
 cruise ships  have sunk worldwide in the past 20 years. At least
25 people died after the Costa Concordia ran aground off  Italy 
in January.  Eaves said he filed Stumpf’s lawsuit in Galveston to target
the Triumph, which he said has “the same inadequate safety
standards as the Costa Concordia, exactly the same.”  “We’ve not been able to get Carnival’s attention, so this
is our shot over the bow to let them know we’re serious about
changing the law and maritime standards,” Eaves said. “We want
a uniform set of safety standards, and we won’t stop until we
get it.”  Other Troubles  Carnival said on March 9 it had a net loss of $139 million
in the first quarter, compared with net income of $152 million
in the year-earlier period.  Fallout from the shipwreck of the Costa Concordia, which
ran aground off the Italian island of Giglio, will extend
through 2012, the company said in a statement accompanying its
earnings release.  Carnival’s troubles compounded when another Costa Cruises
ship, the Allegra, was towed to shore in the Seychelles islands
in the  Indian Ocean  after catching fire on Feb. 27, and 22
guests on the Carnival Splendor were robbed on land in Mexico.  The case is Kai Stumpf v. Carnival Plc, 3:12-cv-0099, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of Texas (Galveston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  