-- Carnival Cruise Ship Ordered Held in Texas in Shipwreck Suit
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2012-03-31T17:53:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-31/carnival-cruise-ship-ordered-held-in-texas-in-shipwreck-suit-2-.html
A  Carnival Corp. (CCL)  cruise ship was
ordered held in a  Texas  port by a U.S. judge in a $10 million
lawsuit filed by the family of a German tourist who died aboard
the Costa Concordia shipwreck off the coast of Italy.  An arrest warrant was issued yesterday for the MS Carnival
Triumph, a cruise liner based in Galveston, Texas, according to
the  lawsuit  also filed yesterday in federal court in Galveston
by the family of Siglinde Stumpf. The Triumph, owned by the same
company that owns the Costa Concordia, provides year-round
service from the Houston area to multiple ports in the Caribbean
and  Mexico .  “The court finds that the conditions for an attachment of
defendants’ joint and collective property within this district,
mainly the MS Carnival Triumph, appear to exist upon an
admiralty and maritime claim,” U.S. Magistrate Judge John Froeschner of Galveston said in the warrant.  The Carnival Triumph will be allowed to load and unload
passengers and cargo and move between berths within the port
until a “prompt hearing” can be scheduled, at which “the
plaintiff shall be required to show why the attachment and
garnishment should not be vacated,” according to the order.  “We are aware of the situation and are working through the
appropriate legal channels to resolve it,” Jennifer De La Cruz,
a spokeswoman for Miami-based Carnival, the world’s largest
cruise-ship operator, said in an e-mailed statement today.  $10 Million Bond  “We are optimistic that the issues regarding the Carnival
Triumph will be resolved and the ship will depart on its
scheduled voyage later today,” she said.  The Triumph was scheduled to sail today for a five-day
cruise to Yucatan and Cozumel, according to a Carnival website.  John Eaves Jr., the Jackson, Mississippi-based lawyer
representing Stumpf’s family, said in a telephone interview
today that the Triumph “is currently seized” and must remain
in port until the magistrate issues an order releasing the ship.  “If Carnival posts a $10 million security bond, then
everything can be done by agreement on the phone today,” Eaves
said.  Eaves said he’s part of an international consumer movement
lobbying for increased oversight and safety standards in the
global cruise industry. At least 25 people died after the Costa
Concordia ran aground off  Italy  in January.  Changing the Law  “We’ve not been able to get Carnival’s attention, so this
is our shot over the bow to let them know we’re serious about
changing the law and maritime standards,” Eaves said. “We want
a uniform set of safety standards, and we won’t stop until we
get it.”  Carnival’s De La Cruz didn’t immediately respond today to
an e-mailed request to confirm whether the company will post
bond.  The case is Kai Stumpf v. Carnival Plc, 3:12-cv-0099, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of Texas (Galveston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  