-- Chavez Says Venezuelan Monthly Inflation Was 0.9% in March
-- B y   D a n i e l   C a n c e l
-- 2012-03-31T19:39:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-31/chavez-says-venezuelan-monthly-inflation-was-0-9-in-march-1-.html
Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez 
said that consumer prices rose 0.9 percent in March, which would
be the lowest on record for the national  price index  published
by the central bank and created in 2008.  Chavez, 57, said that Venezuela’s efforts to regulate
prices on personal care and cleaning products as well as
tightening caps on food goods is helping to pare inflationary
pressure. He disclosed the number in a nationwide broadcast from
the presidential palace, days ahead of the usual announcement by
the central bank.  “We’re going to keep reviewing all prices in the economy,
clothes, cars, food, medicine, everything, starting with the
most essential to reduce to zero the capitalist speculation that
most weighs on inflation,” Chavez said today from Caracas.  Venezuela, the largest oil producer in  South America , has
the highest annual inflation rate of 90 economies tracked by
Bloomberg. Consumer prices rose 25.6 percent in February from a
year earlier and 1.1 percent in February from January.  Chavez, who’s seeking re-election in October amid a battle
with an undisclosed form of cancer, decreed the creation of a
price regulation agency last year to install price caps on
 consumer goods . The law, which goes into effect tomorrow, began
with 19 personal care and cleaning products, including
toothpaste, toilet paper, bleach, diapers and shampoo.  U.S. consumer companies that produce the products,
including  Colgate-Palmolive Co. (CL) ,  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)  and
Johnson & Johnson, will have to cut prices by as much as 25
percent.  The Venezuelan Central Bank’s  Caracas price index , which
has data going back to at least 1990, was last below 1 percent
in July 2007. The central bank will release the official
consumer price report for March in the next two weeks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Cancel in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  