-- China Bans Mircoblog Comment as 6 Detained on Coup Rumor
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-02T02:31:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-31/china-closes-websites-for-rumors-microblog-sites-halt-comments.html
A ban on  Internet users  commenting
on posts to China’s two largest microblogging sites enters its
third day after the government closed 16 websites and detained
six people for spreading rumors of a coup attempt in Beijing.  Sina Corp. (SINA) , the largest provider of the Twitter-like
service with more than 300 million registered users, and  Tencent
Holdings Ltd. (700) , the No. 2 player, announced the 72-hour
suspension of the commenting function starting at 8 a.m. March
31, citing a need to clear up rumors and illegal information.  Speculation on the Internet on March 20 of a coup attempt
helped spark the biggest jump in four months in the cost of
insuring against a default on Chinese  government bonds . That was
five days after Bo Xilai, earlier seen as a contender for
promotion to China’s top decision-making body, was removed as
party secretary of the municipality of Chongqing.  “Although the punishment was not harsh, it does send a
message to other Internet companies to be more cautious in terms
of content control,” JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts Dick Wei and
Evan Zhou wrote in a note dated April 1.  Tencent fell 1.1 percent to HK$214.20 in Hong Kong trading
as of 10:29 a.m. local time. Sina fell 1.1 percent to $65.00 in
Nasdaq trading on Mar. 30.  Government oversight of microblogging services has
tightened as they’ve grown in popularity. In December,  China 
began requiring users in cities including Beijing, Guangzhou and
Shenzhen to register their real names. That rule will be
expanded to other regions,  Wang Chen , minister of the State
Council Information Office, said in January.  Government ‘Flexing’  While posts have also long been subject to deletion for
their content, this ban on comments is the first blanket
restriction the services have applied, said  Duncan Clark ,
chairman of Beijing-based BDA China, which advises technology
companies.  “It’s a flexing of muscles” by the authorities, Clark
said in a telephone interview yesterday. “I can only see it as
a gesture.”  China’s lack of a free press and democracy, and the absence
of a transparent mechanism to pick new leaders for the second-
biggest economy and the largest online population, escalate the
risk of rumors and their potential impact.  Authorities detained the six people for “fabricating or
disseminating online rumors” that military vehicles had entered
Beijing and that there was “something wrong” happening in the
Chinese capital, the state-run Xinhua News Agency reported on
the same day the comment ban took effect, citing Beijing police
and the State Internet Information Office.  Companies ‘Criticized’  The State Internet Information Office said Sina and Tencent
had been “criticized and punished accordingly” by authorities
for a number of rumors, Xinhua said.  A spokesman for Sina yesterday had no comment beyond the
original statement announcing the ban. Calls to Tencent weren’t
returned.  Bo is a member of the ruling Communist Party’s Politburo
and had been mentioned by analysts such as  Li Cheng , a scholar
at the Washington-based  Brookings Institution , as a top
candidate for inclusion in the Politburo Standing Committee.
That group, now comprising nine men, exercises supreme power.  Membership in the Politburo and the standing committee is
determined by bargaining and consensus at the top levels of the
party. A congress later this year will pick the next generation
of leaders, who may run China for a decade.  Bo had pursued development in Chongqing, one of China’s
fastest-growing regions, with a top-down push for social
equality and a stronger role for government. Others in the
party, including the People’s Daily newspaper and a research arm
of China’s Cabinet, have called for a smaller state role in
finance and industry.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Wenxin Fan in Shanghai at 
 wfan19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Liu  at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net  