-- Gulf States Said Ready to Fund Syrian Opposition Fighters
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e   a n d   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 2012-04-01T17:22:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-31/clinton-heads-meeting-of-syria-opposition-backers-in-istanbul.html
Gulf countries will provide millions
of dollars a month to the main Syrian opposition group to pay
salaries for fighters battling government forces, according to a
participant at a conference on  Syria  in Istanbul.  Funding for the Syrian National Council’s efforts to pay
fighters and army defectors would come from three or four Gulf
countries, according to the official, who was not authorized to
speak on the record because the decision hasn’t been announced
yet. Abdalsalam Albitar, an SNC member, said  Saudi Arabia  and
Qatar have pledged to help fund payments to anti-regime
fighters. Albitar, speaking in an interview through an
interpreter, said the amount pledged hasn’t been settled yet.  Separately, the U.S. will supply opposition forces with
communications gear and will increase funding for humanitarian
aid to Syria, Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said. U.S.
humanitarian aid contributions will total $25 million.  The moves came after  Kofi Annan , the United Nations and
Arab League joint envoy to Syria, received promises from Assad
to end a crackdown that has killed more than 9,000 people. Since
the Syrian commitment on March 27, more than 200 people have
been killed.  “We are going to be supporting the SNC with direct
assistance in areas such as communications, others are going to
be supporting fighters associated with the SNC,” Clinton said.
“So countries are making their own decisions.”  ‘Legitimate Right’  Turkish Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  told the
“Friends of Syria” meeting in Istanbul, which involved 83
countries, that “if the Security Council shirks from its
historic responsibility again, the international community will
have no option other than supporting the Syrian people’s
legitimate right to defend itself.”  Russia and  China , which didn’t participate in the summit,
warned against intervention in the country and have blocked two
UN Security Council measures to end the crisis.  Clinton told the meeting that the U.S. will create an
umbrella group to tighten sanctions, increase funding for
humanitarian aid, supply opposition forces with communications
gear and create a group to monitor Syrian “atrocities.” With
those measures in place, the U.S. “is confident that the people
of Syria will take control of their own destiny,” she said.  Provide Weapons  Financing from the international community won’t be used to
provide weapons for the rebel Free Syrian Army, SNC leader
Burhan Ghalioun said. Money from Saudi Arabia and Qatar that may
be used to pay people who desert Assad’s forces would also be
channelled through the SNC, he said.  “The international community that gathered as Friends of
Syria support the people’s right to defend themselves,”
Ghalioun told reporters at the conclusion of the summit. “Every
country will interpret this in their own way and position their
support accordingly.”  The SNC called on its allies to send “direct assistance or
provide the means for people to defend themselves,” in a
statement, adding that the “provision of arms” is not their
preferred option.  “We know it carries high risks of escalation into civil
war but we cannot stand back and watch our people being
massacred,” the SNC said. “We believe this decision rests on
the shoulders of the international community.”  Saudi Foreign Minister Prince Saud al-Faisal, told the
meeting that his country supports arming the Syrian rebels. He
didn’t comment on whether his country is actively doing so.  ‘Spew Death’  “They are fighting because they don’t see any way out,”
Prince Saud said. “Do we let the killing go on, or do we look
for ways to help them?”  Erdogan told today’s gathering that Assad is continuing to
“spew death” after agreeing to the peace plan.  The group’s previous gathering in  Tunisia  in February saw
divisions over arming the rebels.  In a closing statement, the “Friends of Syria” called on
Annan to set a timeline for Syria to implement the UN-backed
peace plan.  “Any proposition that doesn’t have a monitoring mechanism
and establish a timeline for political transition will encourage
the Syrian regime to apply more violence,” Erdogan said.  Annan will brief the Security Council tomorrow about the
six-point UN-Arab League plan.  Clinton and other leaders have repeatedly urged the SNC to
create greater unity among the various opposition groups. At
least five factions announced they would put off joining the
group until the leading opposition alliance alters its executive
committee.  In an effort to forge consensus, the SNC adopted a charter
that pledges a democratic republic based on the rule of law and
that a caretaker government will immediately draft a new
constitution.  The SNC seeks recognition as the sole representative of the
nation, support for the rebel Free Syrian Army and safety
corridors within the country, Ghalioun said. “Now is the time
to act.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emre Peker in Ankara at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net ;
Nicole Gaouette in  Riyadh  at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Louis Meixler at 
 lmeixler@bloomberg.net ;
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net . 