-- Clinton Says Will Soon Be Clear If Iran Serious About Talks
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2012-03-31T14:07:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-31/clinton-says-will-soon-be-clear-if-iran-serious-on-nuclear-talks.html
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
said it will soon be clear whether  Iran  is serious about talks
on its nuclear program, and warned that the window to engage
“will not remain open forever.”  Negotiations between Iran, the five permanent members of
the  United Nations Security Council  and  Germany  are set to be
held April 13 and 14 in Istanbul, Clinton said, even as the U.S.
and its allies pursue a range of sanctions against the Islamic
republic. While the U.S. says Iran must allay concerns that it’s
pursuing nuclear weapons, Iran says its program is for peaceful
purposes, including medical research.  “It soon will be clear whether Iran’s leaders are prepared
to have a serious, credible discussion about their nuclear
program,” Clinton said today in Riyadh,  Saudi Arabia ’s capital.
“It is up to Iran’s leaders to make the right choice. So far
they have given little reason for confidence. What is certain is
that Iran’s window to seek and obtain a peaceful resolution will
not remain open forever.”  Clinton is in Riyadh for the inaugural meeting of a Gulf
Cooperation Council strategic group to discuss the creation of a
missile defense system. She goes to Istanbul this evening for an
April 1 ‘Friends of Syria’ meeting, bringing together Syrian
opposition groups and their international backers.  Syria has said it accepts a six-point UN peace plan put
forward by  Kofi Annan , the former UN chief who is acting as the
international body’s envoy to  Syria . It calls for President
Bashar al-Assad’s government to pull back its forces, allow
humanitarian aid workers and international monitors to enter,
and permit peaceful protests to take place.  Clinton warned that verbal acceptance of the proposal is
not enough.  “The world will judge Assad’s sincerity by what he does,
not by what he says,” Clinton said. “As of today, regime
forces continue to shell civilians, lay siege to neighborhoods,
and even target places of worship.”  At least 25 people were killed by security forces in Syria
today, the U.K.-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said
in an e-mail.  Clinton said Annan should set a deadline for Syria to meet
its commitment to implement the peace plan. The GCC, in a
closing statement for today’s meeting, urged the envoy “to
determine a timeline for next steps if the killing continues.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in  Riyadh  at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  