-- DirecTV, Tribune Dispute Whether Programming Deal Was Reached
-- B y   D a n   H a r t
-- 2012-03-31T21:07:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-31/directv-tribune-dispute-whether-programming-deal-was-reached.html
DirecTV (DTV)  announced today that it had
reached a “handshake deal” with Tribune Co. on a programming
agreement on March 29, a statement that Tribune later said has
left them “puzzled” and denying any accord.  “There has been no agreement of any kind, handshake or
otherwise, on Thursday or any other day,” said  Gary Weitman , a
spokesman for Tribune, in an e-mail. The Chicago broadcaster
issued the statement this afternoon after DirecTV, the largest
U.S. satellite-TV provider, said earlier today the pact had been
reached. Their previous accord is due to expire at midnight.  The two sides have been negotiating for more than two
months on an agreement to allow DirecTV to carry Tribune’s 23
local broadcast stations in 16 U.S. markets. In those markets
Tribune owns either the local Fox or CW affiliates. Lack of an
accord would jeopardize viewers’ ability to see shows including
“ American Idol ,” Major League Baseball broadcasts, “America’s
Next Top Model” and “Gossip Girl.”  DirecTV said today that it had accepted terms proffered by
Tribune’s management via telephone two days ago, to ensure that
its subscribers didn’t lose access to local news, traffic,
weather, sports and entertainment.  Tribune, owner of the WGN cable channel, then released a
statement saying it hadn’t reached any agreement with DirecTV
and any statement by DirecTV saying otherwise was “inaccurate
and misleading.” Asked whether talks were continuing, Tribune’s
Weitman said in a telephone interview, “I don’t want to comment
upon or characterize the negotiation process.”  ‘Bad Faith’  “Their actions are the true definition of ‘bad faith’ in
every sense of the term,” said Darris Gringeri, a DirecTV
spokesman, in an e-mail. “If the local stations and WGN America
do come down at midnight, it will be 100 percent Tribune’s
decision to take them away from customers.”  In February, DirecTV said it posted a 16 percent increase
in fourth-quarter profit as customer gains in  Latin America 
climbed to a record. The company said its programming costs rose
because of network fee increases and expenses related to its NFL
Sunday Ticket football content.  The programming expense will be exacerbated when DirecTV
negotiates new contracts with CBS Corp. and Discovery
Communications Inc. this year, said  Michael McCormack , an
analyst at Nomura Securities International Inc. in  New York , in
an interview in February.  Tribune, the Chicago-based owner of the Los Angeles
Times and the Chicago Tribune newspapers, filed for bankruptcy
in December 2008, one year after a leveraged buyout led by real-
estate billionaire  Sam Zell . Since then, the company and  hedge
funds  holding Tribune’s senior debt have fought to win approval
of a plan to divide ownership among the lenders that financed
the $8.3 billion buyout. 