-- Medtronic Settles Investors’ Suits Over Bone-Growth Device
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   S a s h a   D a m o u n i
-- 2012-03-31T01:34:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-31/medtronic-settles-investors-suits-over-bone-growth-device-1-.html
Medtronic Inc. (MDT)  said it agreed to
pay $85 million to settle claims that executives misled
shareholders about the profitability of the company’s Infuse
bone-growth device.  Medtronic, the world’s biggest maker of heart-rhythm
devices, said today it will resolve securities-fraud lawsuits
alleging the company artificially inflated the value of its
shares by promoting the  Infuse  system for unapproved uses and
then basing rosy revenue projections on the illegal sales.  “Under the settlement, Medtronic explicitly denies that it
made any misrepresentations or omissions or that it otherwise
engaged in any wrongdoing,” company officials said in an e-
mailed statement.  Officials of Minneapolis-based Medtronic said last month
they are planning for a U.S. tax on medical products, enacted as
part of a 2010 health-care law, that may cost the company as
much as $175 million annually starting next year.  Medtronic also reported Feb. 21 that fiscal third-quarter
profit rose 1.2 percent to $935 million, or 88 cents a share,
from $924 million, or 86 cents. Profit excluding one-time items
was 84 cents a share, matching the average of 26 analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Company officials said today they expect to record the $85
million settlement of the investors’ suits as a one-time charge
in its fiscal fourth quarter, which ends April 27.  Spinal Fusions  Disgruntled Medtronic shareholders, including pension funds
such as the Minneapolis Firefighters Relief Association, sued in
2008 alleging that company officials initiated an illegal
marketing campaign for Infuse. Doctors most often use Infuse in
medical procedures to  fuse  spinal vertebrae to relieve back
pain.  Company officials pushed salespeople to market the product
for illnesses the U.S. Food and Drug Administration hadn’t yet
approved it for, shareholders said in the suits.  While doctors may prescribe drugs for uses not approved as
safe and effective by government regulators, companies are
forbidden to market them for so-called off-label uses.  Future growth projections were “driven by misconduct that
invited, and ultimately brought about, the scrutiny of federal
regulators and an abrupt decline in sales,” investors’ lawyers
said in court filings.  Medtronic officials said in November 2008 that U.S. Justice
Department officials had started a probe of the Infuse marketing
campaign.  “The settlement is a good one because the amount is
significant and it was the right way to go in this case,” Karl
Cambone, one of the lawyers representing Medtronic investors in
the case, said in a telephone interview today.  The case is Minneapolis Firefighters Relief Association v.
Medtronic, 08-06324, U.S. District Court, District of Minnesota
(Minneapolis).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Sasha Damouni in New York at 
 sdamouni2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net 
Kevin Reynolds at   kreynolds@bloomberg.net  