-- Egypt’s Muslim Brotherhood Nominates Candidate for Presid
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y
-- 2012-03-31T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-31/egypt-s-muslim-brotherhood-proposes-candidate-for-preside.html
The Muslim Brotherhood,  Egypt ’s
dominant power in parliament, nominated a presidential candidate
to run in the May election, a move that may increase tensions
between the once-banned group and the country’s ruling generals.  The Brotherhood will put forward Khairat el-Shater, a
senior official within the Islamist movement, Mahmoud Hussein,
the group’s secretary-general, said at a press conference
yesterday in Cairo. The government hasn’t met the needs of the
people and there is a “threat to the revolution,” he said. The
group’s Freedom and Justice Party holds 47 percent of the seats
in parliament’s lower house.  The Brotherhood earlier said it wasn’t planning to run a
candidate in the May presidential elections. The group has
clashed in recent weeks with the military rulers who took over
after former President  Hosni Mubarak  was ousted last year. It
has criticized the generals for rejecting its calls to fire the
current Cabinet on grounds that they had failed to address the
country’s growing economic difficulties.  El-Shater served as a top official in the Brotherhood’s
Guidance Council, its main decision-making body. He has been
imprisoned several times, meaning that he would have to be
pardoned by Egypt’s military ruler, Field Marshal Mohamed
Hussein Tantawi, in order to run for the presidency.  El-Shater’s running in the May election would “likely be
something done in coordination with SCAF,” Hani Sabra, Middle
East analyst with the Eurasia Group, a consultancy, said in a
telephone interview, referring to the Supreme Council of the
Armed Forces.  Hussein said that the Brotherhood’s decision to field a
candidate came after rumors that several former members of
Mubarak’s regime were considering running for office, which
further boosted concerns that the country’s push for democracy
was under threat.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Digby Lidstone in Cairo at 
 dlidstone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  