-- Egypt’s Muslim Brotherhood Nominates President Candidate
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y   a n d   A b d e l   L a t i f   W a h b a
-- 2012-04-01T14:16:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-31/egypt-s-muslim-brotherhood-nominates-president-candidate-1-.html
The Muslim Brotherhood, the dominant
power in Egypt’s parliament, chose its deputy head to be a
candidate for president in the country’s May election, making
him one of the favorites to win and potentially increasing
tensions between the once-banned group and the ruling generals.  Khairat el-Shater  received 58 out of 110 votes in his favor
at a meeting of the group’s consultative council, according to
Arab satellite network Al-Jazeera. The narrow majority suggested
rifts within the organization. The selection was announced late
yesterday at a press conference in Cairo.  The nomination of the 62-year-old millionaire, an engineer
by training and widely seen as the Brotherhood’s chief
financier, drew criticism from some members of the group. Kamal
el-Helbawy, the Brotherhood’s former spokesman in  Europe , said
he was resigning, citing what he said was the organization’s
conflicting stances, the state-run daily Al-Akhbar reported
today.  The Brotherhood, whose Freedom and Justice Party holds 47
percent of the seats in parliament’s lower house, had previously
said it wasn’t planning to run a candidate for the presidency.
The group has clashed in recent weeks with the military rulers
who took over after former President  Hosni Mubarak  was ousted
last year.  ‘Great Fears’  The Brotherhood’s move comes amid political tensions as the
Islamist group, secularists and the ruling military wrangle over
issues including the composition of the committee charged with
drafting the country’s constitution.  Prime Minister Kamal el-Ganzouri said the current political
situation in the country was “more than concerning” and was
creating “great fear” about Egypt’s future, lawmaker Moustafa
Bakri told reporters today after a meeting between MPs from
Cairo governorate that was attended by the premier and several
ministers. FJP lawmakers did not attend the meeting.  El-Shater’s nomination “immediately makes him a front-
runner in the race,” Hani Sabra, Middle East analyst with the
Eurasia Group, a consultancy, said in a telephone interview. His
prominence in the group gives El-Shater more stature than other
Islamist candidates such as Abdel-Monein Abul-Fottouh, who
angered the Brotherhood by breaking ranks and announcing his
candidacy, said Sabra. El-Shater is also seen as more pragmatic
and moderate than the candidate being fielded by the Salafi
groups, who follow a strict interpretation of Islam.  Private Investment  The businessman, who holds investments ranging from
furniture and clothing to bus assembly and pharmaceuticals, said
in an interview last year that he backed a strong private sector
and that the Brotherhood wants “to attract as much investment
as possible.”  El-Helbawy said that the army would use el-Shater’s
candidacy as a pretext to stifle the country’s move to democracy
and, eventually, the Brotherhood itself, Al-Akhbar reported.  The group has criticized the generals for rejecting its
calls to fire the current Cabinet for failing to revive the
economy. The group’s secretary-general, Mahmoud Hussein, said
the government hasn’t met the needs of the people and that there
is a “threat to the revolution.”  El-Shater is a senior member of the Brotherhood’s Guidance
Council, its main decision-making body. He has been imprisoned
several times, with his latest sentence suspended but not
overturned. That means he would have to be pardoned by  Egypt ’s
military ruler, Field Marshal Mohamed Hussein Tantawi, in order
to run, said Sabra.  Change of Tack  El-Shater’s campaign would have to be “something done in
coordination with SCAF,” said Sabra, referring to the Supreme
Council of the Armed Forces.  Hussein said the Brotherhood’s decision to field a
candidate came after reports that former members of Mubarak’s
regime were considering running for office, which further
boosted concerns that the country’s push for democracy was under
threat.  Omar Suleiman , who served as Mubarak’s intelligence
chief and, in the waning days of his regime, as vice president,
has been cited as a possible candidate.  The decision to nominate El-Shater for the presidency
followed what Hussein said were the Brotherhood’s attempts in
recent months to move the country forward using its party’s
leading role in parliament. The government has failed to address
Egypt’s deepening economic slump, deteriorating security and
challenges to the transition to democracy, he said.  IMF Negotiations  Egypt is trying to secure a $3.2 billion loan from the
 International Monetary Fund  -- money that would help it access
other donor aid. The Brotherhood, while not rejecting the loan,
has said it wants to make sure that the government has exhausted
all other options first. The IMF, which sent a technical
committee last week to Egypt, has said it wants to see broad
consensus from all political groups over the government’s
economic program before approving the loan.  El-Ganzouri said the government was hoping to at least sign
a memorandum of understanding with the IMF, but that one of the
political parties had asked that the step be delayed, according
to Bakri, the lawmaker. He didn’t say which group had raised
objections.  The parliament, whose second-largest membership is from the
conservative Salafi party, Al-Nour, is preparing to test the
military further by pushing again for a no-confidence motion
against the interim government. An earlier attempt resulted in
comments by the military that people needed to learn from
history and avoid repeating past mistakes. Egyptian media and
analysts saw that as a reference to the crackdowns on the
Brotherhood under earlier governments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Digby Lidstone in Cairo at 
 dlidstone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  