-- Templeton Cautions Investors Riding Myanmar, Cambodia Growth
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2012-04-01T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-31/templeton-cautions-investors-riding-myanmar-cambodia-growth-1-.html
Investors should be cautious when
pursuing the opportunities for growth present in Myanmar and
 Cambodia ,  Southeast Asia ’s frontier markets, Templeton Asset
Management Ltd. said.  While Myanmar’s natural resources of oil, gas and minerals
are positive factors, there are “areas of concern,” Templeton
portfolio manager Dennis Lim wrote in a March 31 note on
Chairman  Mark Mobius ’s  blog . Although Cambodia is “ideally
located” to benefit from trade with  Thailand , Vietnam and  Laos ,
investors need to study corporate governance standards, he said.  “Weaknesses we’re especially mindful of in Myanmar are
lack of a proper legal structure, the lack of a well-developed
banking system, and the lack of solid foreign exchange
operations,” Lim wrote. “In Cambodia, I would caution
potential investors to monitor corporate governance standards to
ensure investors are treated fairly.”  Myanmar yesterday held its most inclusive elections since
the military rejected an opposition victory in 1990. Prospects
of democratic foundations in the nation of 64 million people
between China and  India  encouraged the U.S. to consider easing
sanctions, with companies from General Electric Co. to Standard
Chartered Plc awaiting opportunities to invest.  Myanmar dissident  Aung San Suu Kyi , who received the Nobel 
peace prize during her 15 years under house arrest, won a 
parliamentary seat in by-elections, a member of her party said. 
She was among the winners of 43 of 664 seats in the national 
legislature up for grabs, San Maung, a data collector for her 
National League for Democracy party, said by phone from Yangon.   Phnom Penh IPO  In Cambodia, state-owned Phnom Penh Water Supply Authority
will have its initial public offering this month, making it the
first to be traded on the stock exchange that opened last July
without a single listed company. The Cambodian government has
said it wants to spur economic development by selling off state-
owned companies and encouraging private enterprises to expand
with new funding.  Mobius, who oversees more than $50 billion in emerging-
markets assets as executive chairman of Templeton  Emerging
Markets  Group, has said he’s watching the Cambodian railroad
industry “with particular interest.”  Indonesia , whose natural resources include timber and coal,
can benefit from increasing global demand for commodities as
emerging markets invest in infrastructure, Lim said. Thailand,
which suffered its worst floods in almost 70 years in 2011, will
have a sound economic recovery and has “positive” long-term
fundamentals, he said.  Agriculture, Tourism  “For value investors like us, current valuations in
Thailand generally remain attractive, though the potential
growth obstacles do bear ongoing scrutiny,” Lim said. He cited
agriculture, tourism and offshore gas as drivers of growth.  Singapore’s stock exchange is a conduit through which
Templeton can access new markets because of listings by some
companies from the frontier economies, Lim wrote.  “Investing in  Singapore , though, comes with its own set of
challenges,” he said. “Its domestic market is small and the
economy is a very open one as it doesn’t restrict trade,
development and capital flows with other countries. This means
that Singapore is more closely linked to the movements of the
global markets and affected by global market volatility like the
global financial crisis and the challenges from the  euro zone .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  