-- EU Finance Ministers to Overhaul Credit-Rating Rotation Plan
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-03-31T13:27:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-31/eu-finance-ministers-to-overhaul-credit-rating-rotation-plan.html
European Union finance ministers
agreed to overhaul  plans  to force companies to rotate the
credit-ratings companies they use on concerns that the measure
may lead to lower quality assessments.  Governments have “great concerns” about the rotation
proposal, Danish Economy Minister  Margrethe Vestager  told
reporters today in Copenhagen after a meeting of EU finance
chiefs.  The rating market is “not that mature,” Vestager said,
meaning that companies may be forced to seek assessments from
companies that don’t have the expertise to do the work. Denmark
holds the rotating presidency of the 27-nation bloc.  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services commissioner,
proposed the rotation rule last year as part of a draft law to
toughen regulation of the industry amid concerns that some
rating decisions were unjustified and exacerbated the region’s
debt crisis. He said rotation would boost competition and solve
potential conflicts of interest.  Under Barnier’s proposal, companies would be expected to
change the company that they pay to rate their credit every
three years. The time limit could be extended to six years if a
business hired more than one rating company.  The bill must be agreed on by national governments and
lawmakers in the European Parliament.  ‘New Solutions’  The EU will re-examine how frequently rotation should be
required and what phasing-in period there should be before the
rules fully apply, EU officials said after the meeting.  “Rotation is an aspect of our proposal where we remain
open to new solutions,” Barnier said in an e-mailed statement.  Ministers decided not to reopen existing rules on the
regulation and oversight of rating companies based outside of
the region. The Danish presidency had sought views on whether
the requirements, agreed on in 2009, needed to be overhauled.  Ministers also urged the commission to come forward with a
draft law on winding down banks in crisis.  The European Commission yesterday published a consultation
document on the measures, which include writing down unsecured
senior debtholders at failing lenders. Barnier put the measures
on hold last year on concerns that they could further dent
market confidence in the wake the fiscal crisis. He said
yesterday that he will present the plans by June.  ‘Controversial’ Proposals  Both the debt writedown measures, known as bail-ins, and
another part of the proposals that would require nations to set
up bank-financed “resolution funds” to cover costs from
failing lenders, are “controversial,” Vestager said.  The trigger points where losses would be imposed on a
bank’s creditors must be clear, European Central Bank Vice
President  Vitor Constancio  said after today’s discussions.  “Some objective criteria must be in the regulation” so
the market knows how to value the securities, he said.
Constancio also called for the setting up of an EU level
resolution fund.  There are “different positions” on the need for
resolution funds, and on whether they should be set up at
national or European level, Barnier said.  His proposal will, at a minimum, include the setting up of
national funds with some co-ordination at EU level, officials
said.  ‘Never Been Used’  Swedish Finance Minister Anders Borg said Barnier’s
proposals shouldn’t prevent governments from putting public
money into failing banks when they want to, Borg said.  “It’s very important that we have clear and transparent
ways to inject capital, because that obviously restores the
credibility of the bank immediately,” Borg said after today’s
discussions. “A resolution regime must also include injections
where the state actually dilutes the previous shareholders,” he
said.  “The problem with the bail-in is that it’s basically never
been used,” Borg said. “But obviously we’re willing to discuss
everything.”  There was “a very large consensus on the need to include
the possibility of bail in the final proposal,” Barnier said in
an emailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Copenhagen at  jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  