-- Carnival Cruise Ship Ordered Held in Texas in Shipwreck Suit
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2012-03-31T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-31/texas-judge-orders-cruise-ship-seizure-in-costa-concordia-suit.html
A  Carnival Corp. (CCL)  cruise ship was
ordered held in a  Texas  port by a U.S. judge in a $10 million
lawsuit filed by the family of a German tourist who died aboard
the Costa Concordia shipwreck off the Italian coast.  An arrest warrant was issued yesterday for the MS Carnival
Triumph, a 2,758-passenger cruise liner based in Galveston,
Texas, that is owned by the same company that owns the Costa
Concordia, according to the lawsuit also filed yesterday in
federal court in Galveston by the family of Siglinde Stumpf. The
Triumph provides year-round service from the Houston area to
multiple ports in the Caribbean and  Mexico , according to
Carnival’s website.  “The court finds that the conditions for an attachment of
defendants’ joint and collective property within this district,
mainly the MS Carnival Triumph, appear to exist upon an
admiralty and maritime claim,” U.S. Magistrate Judge John Froeschner of Galveston said in the warrant.  The Carnival Triumph will be allowed to unload passengers
and cargo and move between berths within the port until a
“prompt hearing” can be scheduled, at which “the plaintiff
shall be required to show why the attachment and garnishment
should not be vacated,” according to the order.  A representative of Miami-based Carnival, the world’s
largest cruise-ship operator, didn’t immediately return phone
and e-mail messages after regular business hours yesterday
seeking comment on the court order. The Triumph was scheduled to
sail today for a five-day cruise to Yucatan and Cozumel,
according to a Carnival website.  At least 25 people died after the Costa Concordia ran
aground off  Italy  in January.  The case is Kai Stumpf v. Carnival plc, 3:12-cv-00099, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of Texas (Galveston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  