-- Fed’s Kocherlakota Says Fed Doing ‘As Well as It Can’
-- B y   M e l i s s a   S i l v e r b e r g   a n d   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2012-04-01T00:01:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-31/fed-s-kocherlakota-says-fed-doing-as-well-as-it-can-for-jobs.html
Federal Reserve  Bank of Minneapolis
President Narayana Kocherlakota said the Fed has done the best
it can to spur a recovery in the U.S. labor market, even with
the  unemployment rate  persisting at 8.3 percent.  “The Federal Reserve is performing about as well as it can
on both mandates,” Kocherlakota said today, referring to the
Fed’s obligation to achieve full employment and price stability.
“The level of ‘maximum employment’ achievable through monetary
policy is less than the ‘full employment’ of labor resources,”
he said in the summary of remarks in Evanston,  Illinois .  The Minneapolis Fed chief, responding to audience
questions, said the Fed’s purchase of bonds to stimulate
economic growth hasn’t been “putting any inflationary pressure
on the economy” now, and the central bank has “a number of
ways to mitigate the risk” from its balance sheet.  Kocherlakota said he expects inflation of around 2 percent
this year, in line with the Fed’s target, and the  Federal Open
Market Committee  sees prices as “well contained.”  The Fed official, in prepared remarks, repeated the speech
he gave in  St. Louis  on March 20.  Kocherlakota has said he doesn’t see the need for more Fed
easing given the progress of the U.S. economic expansion. The
FOMC this month kept policy unchanged, saying unemployment is
still “elevated” even after recent improvements in the job
market.  “In terms of employment, there are limits to what monetary
policy can achieve on its own,” Kocherlakota said at the
Midwest Economics Association’s annual meeting. He doesn’t vote
on the policy-setting FOMC this year  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  