-- Italian Bonds Drop for Third Week as Boost From ECB Loans Wanes
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 2012-03-31T06:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-31/italian-bonds-drop-for-third-week-as-boost-from-ecb-loans-wanes.html
Italian bonds fell for a third week
as the nation missed its target at a debt auction and the boost
to demand for the securities from European Central Bank
liquidity measures waned.  Italy  auctioned 8 billion euros ($10.6 billion) of bonds
and floating-rate securities on March 29, missing its 8.25
billion-euro maximum target for the sale. Spain’s bonds rose for
the first time in four weeks before it sells debt on April 4.
The ECB has lent more than 1 trillion euros to European
financial institutions through its longer-term refinancing
operations.  “The liquidity effect of the LTRO is gradually losing
momentum,” said  Michael Leister , a fixed-income strategist at
DZ Bank AG in  Frankfurt . “This explains the increasing effect
supply is having on the respective markets; this week Italy, and
we’re probably going to see the same thing next week in Spain.”  Italy’s 10-year bond yields rose eight basis points in the
week to 5.12 percent at 4:37 p.m.  London  time yesterday. The 5
percent security due March 2022 changed hands at 99.570 percent
of face value. The nation’s two-year note yield gained 40 basis
points to 2.89 percent.  The  two-year Italian  yield has surged about 120 basis
points from its 2012 low even as Prime Minister  Mario Monti 
tries to cut spending and raise taxes. This month his government
overhauled  labor laws  to make it easier to fire workers,
sparking a general strike by the nation’s main union.  Spanish Budget  Spanish 10-year yields advanced three basis points to 5.34
percent as it prepares to auction bonds due 2015 through 2020
next week. The nation’s cabinet yesterday passed its 2012
budget, promising to reduce the deficit gap to 5.3 percent of
gross domestic product from 8.5 percent in 2011, the largest
reduction in at least three decades.  The yield on 10-year German bunds,  Europe ’s benchmark
securities, fell seven basis points to 1.79 percent amid concern
an extension of the region’s anti-crisis firewall will not be
sufficient to prevent further debt-market turmoil. Euro-area
finance ministers meeting in Copenhagen yesterday increased the
overall size of relief funds to 800 billion euros.  “The headline on the firewall is a repeating theme that
politicians think they come out with a number that will shock
and awe the markets, but the market is unlikely to be very
impressed,” said Leister. “It will provide sufficient support
for bunds, where yields remain biased to the downside.”  Germany plans to offer as much as 8 billion euros of six-
month and five-year  government securities  next week. France,
Belgium, the Netherlands and Portugal are also scheduled to sell
debt.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net ;
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 