-- Japan Opens Three Evacuated Towns After Tepco’s Disaster
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 2012-03-31T05:14:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-31/japan-opens-three-evacuated-towns-after-tepco-s-disaster.html
Japan  will partially open three
towns in the evacuation zone in Fukushima prefecture next month
for the first time since a record earthquake last March caused
the worst nuclear disaster in 25 years.  Residents of the towns Kawauchi, Tamura and Minami Soma
will be allowed to go home temporarily, the Ministry of Economy,
Trade and Industry said on its website yesterday. They will be
able to drive cars on major roads in those areas, where the
government has measured radiation exposure levels to be less
than 20 millisieverts a year, the ministry said.  Last year’s quake and tsunami in Japan’s northeast crippled
the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear station operated by  Tokyo
Electric Power Co. (9501) , forcing about 160,000 people to flee their
homes. The company known as Tepco this week requested 1 trillion
yen ($12 billion) of public funds to avert collapse, paving the
way for the government to take control of what once was the
world’s biggest private utility.  “The government will work to help residents get back to
their hometown at the earliest date possible,” Prime Minister
 Yoshihiko Noda  said at a meeting of the nuclear disaster panel
yesterday, according to a government website. Officials will
continue to review whether the evacuation advisory for the area
should be lifted, he said.  Japan’s government has asked people living within a 20-
kilometer (12.4 miles) radius of the Fukushima nuclear plant to
evacuate. Only two of 54 nuclear reactors in Japan are operating
after meltdowns at three of six at the Tepco plant last year.  The March 11 temblor and tsunami left almost 19,000 people
dead or missing, according to police data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  