-- Kentucky Is ‘Prohibitive Favorite’ for NCAA Title, Packer Says
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2012-03-31T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-31/kentucky-is-prohibitive-favorite-for-ncaa-title-packer-says.html
The  University of Kentucky  is the
“prohibitive favorite” to win this year’s  National Collegiate
Athletic Association  basketball championship, while the college
game is being hurt by players who leave for the pros after one
year, former CBS Sports analyst Billy Packer said.  “There are so many different things that they can do on
the court, both offensively and defensively, that gives them an
excellent chance to win this,” Packer said of the  Kentucky 
Wildcats on “Political Capital with  Al Hunt ,” airing this
weekend on Bloomberg Television.  Kentucky plays the University of Louisville tonight in New
Orleans, with  Ohio State University  and the University of Kansas
playing after that. The championship game is scheduled for April
2.  Packer, 72, said “it’s about as good a Final Four as you
could possibly put together,” in terms of the teams’ histories
and their coaches.  The quality of play is another thing, Packer said. “The
talent level of teams that play in intercollegiate basketball
now is way off of what it used to be,” he said. “The mindset
of these kids is that college is a pass-through.”  While some players leave college because of money, others
depart because they’re told at an early age that they’re going
to be stars, Packer said. He cited Austin Rivers, son of Boston
Celtics coach Doc Rivers, as an example. Rivers, after one year
at  Duke University , declared he would enter the National
Basketball Association draft.  ‘Is He Ready’  “Is he ready to be an NBA player that can help a team to
the playoffs by next year? The answer to that is no,” Packer
said. Rivers first needed to prove he could lead his college
team to a conference championship “to be a productive NBA
player of impact.”  NCAA President  Mark Emmert  said the issue of college
players leaving after one year was overblown, cautioning against
blowing “the one-and-done out of proportion” and suggesting
that it’s “somehow undermining all of academics and the NCAA,”
according a  story  in USA Today.  Packer said the impact is felt on young men who are told
they are going to be professional players “only to fall short,
but in many cases when it’s too late,” and on the college game
itself.  Players like  Tim Duncan , who spent four years at  Wake
Forest University  before becoming an NBA star, are becoming the
exception, Packer said.  Because of kids leaving school early, about 100 players,
including 40 of NBA caliber, could still be playing in college,
he said. They could be “completely changing the landscape of
the quality of the upper-echelon teams” and improving their
ability to play well in the NBA, “having shown what they can
really do” during four years of college, Packer said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  