-- N. Korea Slams U.S. Plan to Halt Food Aid on Rocket Launch
-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 2012-03-31T08:14:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-31/n-korea-slams-u-s-plan-to-halt-food-aid-on-rocket-launch-1-.html
North Korea  criticized a U.S.
announcement that it would suspend food aid if the Asian country
carries out a planned “peaceful” satellite launch, calling it
an overreaction “beyond the limit.”  Suspending food aid “would be a regrettable act”
scrapping the entire Feb. 29 agreement between the two nations,
North Korea’s state-run Korean Central News Agency said, quoting
a foreign ministry spokesman it didn’t name.  North Korea drew rebukes from nations including the U.S.
earlier this month when it revealed plans to launch an “earth
observation satellite” in April to mark the 100th anniversary
of the birth of state founder  Kim Il Sung .  U.S. President  Barack Obama , who visited  Seoul  for a
Nuclear Security Summit this week, warned North Korea that its
plan to fire a long-range rocket undermined prospects for future
negotiations, while  South Korea ’s military said Kim Jong Un’s
forces had moved the missile to a launch site.  North Korea’s announcement of a mid-April launch will make
it difficult to move forward with the aid deal and broader
efforts to get the regime back to negotiations on its nuclear
weapons program, Obama said.  Test Moratorium  North Korea agreed to a moratorium on nuclear tests and
long-range missile launches as well as ending  uranium enrichment 
at its facility in Yongbyon while the U.S. pledged to provide an
initial 240,000 metric tons of food, according to a State
Department release.  North Korea’s Kwangmyongsong-3 is a “scientific and
technological satellite for peaceful purposes,” and the country
invited outside satellite experts to demonstrate its
“sincerity,” KCNA reiterated today.  “The U.S. seeks to justify its missile defense system” by
describing North Korea’s capabilities as a threat, KCNA quoted
the foreign ministry spokesman as saying.  The North Korean satellite will be mounted on a Unha-3
rocket launched from a site in North Phyongan province between
April 12 and April 16, a spokesman for the North Korean
Committee for Space Technology said in a statement on KCNA
earlier this month.  Kim Jong Un became North Korea’s leader in December after
the death of his father,  Kim Jong Il . The younger Kim inherited
an impoverished country of 24 million dependent on aid from
 China , and the regime has sought to bolster his image ahead of
the April 15 centennial of his grandfather Kim Il Sung’s birth.
Kim Jong Il had proclaimed that 2012 would be the year the
country becomes “a strong and prosperous nation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  