-- Honda Thailand Plans to Run Ayutthaya Plant at Full Capacity
-- B y   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 2012-03-31T07:55:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-31/honda-thailand-plans-to-run-ayutthaya-plant-at-full-capacity-1-.html
Honda Motor Co. (7267) ’s Thai unit plans
to operate its plant in Ayutthaya province at its full capacity
of 240,000 vehicles a year to meet market demand after the
factory was flooded in 2011.  “Honda is here to stay,” Hiroshi Kobayashi, president and
chief executive officer of Asian Honda Motor Co., told a press
conference today at the Rojana Industrial Park assembly plant in
Ayutthaya. “ Thailand  remains very important for Honda’s
businesses,” including research and development and as a
production base, he said.  Honda, Japan’s third-largest carmaker, resumed output at
the plant on March 26 after halting production in October. The
country’s worst floods in almost 70 years disrupted the supply
chains of companies from Apple Inc. to  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)   Honda President Takanobu Ito forecast record vehicle sales
in the fiscal year starting in April as the company recovers
from natural disasters both at home and in Thailand.  The Thai unit, Honda Automobile (Thailand) Co., plans to
produce about 1,000 cars a day by operating two 8-hour shifts at
two facilities, it said in a statement.  Southeast Asian Expansion  Honda is expanding in Southeast  Asia . It plans to spend 3.1
trillion rupiah ($340 million) to build a plant making small
passenger cars in  Indonesia , the company said on March 15. The
factory will begin operations in 2014, with annual production of
120,000 units.  The company plans to double total sales in  Southeast Asia ,
 India  and Oceania to one million units in five years, Kobayashi
said.  Sales of light vehicles in 10 major car markets in Asia may
surge 10 percent this year to 33.5 million units, thanks to a
recovery in Japan and growth in China and India, May Arthapan,
director at LMC Automotive Thailand, said by phone from Bangkok.  Honda’s  earnings  next fiscal year will climb to the highest
in at least five years and sales may rise above 4 million
vehicles for the first time, led by sales of Accord sedans and
Civic compacts in  North America , Ito said in late January.  Flood Effect  After the Thai floods, the company lowered its full-year
profit forecast to a three-year low of 215 billion yen ($2.6
billion) in the 12 months ending March 31, compared with a
previous estimate of 230 billion yen, it said in a statement on
Jan. 31.  Large Japanese automakers have increased overseas
production since 2009 to respond to a 9 percent strengthening in
the yen against the dollar during the period, according to
Bloomberg Industries. Nissan Motor Co. and Honda have been the
most aggressive, boosting output abroad to 75 percent of total
assemblies. The ratio for Toyota, Asia’s largest carmaker, is 60
percent as it has pledged to keep building 3 million units in
 Japan .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  