-- Progress Energy Reactor Review May Be Delayed, NRC Chief Says
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d   a n d   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n
-- 2012-03-31T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-31/progress-energy-reactor-review-may-be-delayed-nrc-chief-says.html
Progress Energy Inc. (PGN) , which is
proposing to build nuclear reactors in  Florida , may face greater
scrutiny and delays than other utilities, due to  Japan ’s nuclear
disaster last year, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission Chairman
 Gregory Jaczko  said.  While the NRC has approved plans by  Scana Corp. (SCG)  and
 Southern Co. (PEG)  to build reactors, its review of Progress’s bid to
construct identical units may be slowed by an agency analysis of
U.S. plant safety after meltdowns at  Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501) ’s
Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant.  “This may delay issuance of the final safety review” for
Progress’s plan to build two reactors in Levy County, Florida,
about 80 miles (129 kilometers) north of Tampa, Jaczko said
yesterday in a written vote, as the panel approved Scana’s
application to construct reactors at an existing plant near
Columbia,  South Carolina .  “We could expect similar delays for future” licenses,
said Jaczko, who cast the lone dissenting vote because the five-
member commission didn’t require Scana, of Cayce, South
Carolina, to implement all rules developed in response to the
Japan disaster.  Applications for new reactors aren’t being held to a
consistent safety standard, said Jaczko, who wants the
commission to add a license condition requiring all Fukushima
safety enhancements be incorporated before new plants go into
service.  Different Standards  The NRC’s evolving review process means that three projects
with identical reactor designs, whose applications were filed
within a four-month span in 2008, will all be held to different
safety standards. The agency on Feb. 9 approved Southern’s plan
to build reactors at an existing plant near Augusta, Georgia.  Both companies, as well as Raleigh, North Carolina-based
Progress, plan to build AP1000 units, designed by  Toshiba
Corp. (6502) ’s Westinghouse Electric unit.  Jaczko wants the NRC to require companies building reactors
to comply with rules being developed in response to the
Fukushima disaster in March 2011. He also wants the rules to be
implemented by 2016, faster than an NRC staff schedule for
reviews of seismic risks at plants.  The NRC on March 9 approved its first orders related to the
disaster, including a requirement for plants to have in place,
by 2016, emergency equipment to survive a power failure. The
agency has also asked reactor owners to provide additional
information about plant safety, including reviews of earthquake
and flooding hazards.  Additional Reviews  Regulators notified Progress “a couple weeks ago” that it
faced additional review, including seismic analysis, for the two
reactors it is considering building in Levy County, Florida,
said  Mike Hughes , a company spokesman.  Progress, which is attempting to merge with  Duke Energy
Corp. (DUK)  of Charlotte,  North Carolina , hasn’t decided whether to
build the reactors.  “We don’t yet know what impact the request and additional
analysis will have on the schedule,” Hughes said in an e-mail.  The earliest the Progress units would come online is 2021,
Hughes said. The company would have enough time to implement
Fukushima-related orders, according to Jaczko.  Passive Safety Features  Reactor operators, including Scana, have been preparing for
the commission’s regulatory response to the Japan disaster,
Marsh said. Regulations shouldn’t be as onerous for new reactors
such as the AP1000 that are equipped with passive safety
features designed to cool down a reactor during a blackout
without needing electricity or human intervention.  The agency awarded  Southern (SO)  a reactor-construction permit
without requiring the Atlanta-based company to comply with rules
developed in response to Fukushima. Scana’s license calls for
the company to implement an order, issued last month, to have
reliable equipment to inspect spent-fuel cooling pools. The NRC
has also directed Scana to monitor and test valve systems, which
it didn’t require of Southern.  “There should be consistencies” with the licenses, Jaczko
said in an interview.  The NRC has the authority to make owners and license
applicants comply with Fukushima-related rules, Paul Dickman,
who served as chief-of-staff to former NRC Chairman  Dale Klein ,
said in an interview.  “They’re the NRC. They have all the guns. They have all
the bullets,” said Dickman, who heads the public policy
committee for the American Nuclear Society, a professional
organization for nuclear experts and engineers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Johnsson in Chicago at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Geimann at 
 sgeimann@bloomberg.net  