-- QPR Beats Arsenal in Premier League; Man. City Rallies to Draw
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-03-31T16:49:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-31/qpr-beats-arsenal-in-premier-league-man-city-rallies-to-draw.html
Arsenal lost 2-1 to Queens Park
Rangers in English soccer’s Premier League, while Manchester
City rallied late to tie 3-3 with Sunderland.  Samba Diakite’s goal in the second half gave QPR the win
over their north London visitors, while  Mario Balotelli  and
Aleksandar Kolarov scored in the final five minutes to earn
Manchester City a home draw.  Chelsea defeated Aston Villa 4-2, Everton beat West Brom 2-
0, Fulham beat Norwich 2-1, Wigan defeated Stoke 2-0 and Bolton
was a 3-2 winner at Wolverhampton.  Diakite’s goal at Loftus Road, west London, gave QPR a
second win in nine games and ended Arsenal’s seven-match winning
run.  QPR’s Adel Taarabt scored his first goal of the season in
the 22nd minute and  Theo Walcott  answered for Arsenal in the
37th minute. Diakite then converted a pass from Jamie Mackie in
the 66th minute for the victory.  The win gives QPR 28 points but keeps it in the three
relegation places at the bottom of the standings behind
Blackburn because of an inferior goal difference.  Manchester City ’s late rally kept it unbeaten at home this
season and denied Sunderland a first-ever league win at the
Etihad Stadium.  Sunderland’s Sebastian Larsson opened the scoring and
Balotelli tied it with a penalty kick in the 43rd minute.
Nicklas Bendtner then scored with a header in stoppage time to
put City, which had won its 15 previous home games, behind at
the half for the first time.  City Trails United  Larsson scored his second goal 10 minutes after the break
to extend the Sunderland lead to 3-1. Balotelli scored again in
the 85th minute and Kolarov tied the score a minute later.  City now trails first-place  Manchester United , which visits
Blackburn on April 2, by two points with seven games remaining.  Branislav Ivanovic scored two goals as Chelsea beat  Aston
Villa .  Daniel Sturridge  and  Fernando Torres  also scored for the
Blues who led 2-0 in the second half. James Collins and Eric
Lichaj scored three minutes apart to pull Villa even before
Ivanovic scored his second goal in the 83rd minute.  Torres clinched the victory in stoppage time with his first
league goal since October. The win moves the Blues within two
points of fourth-place Tottenham in the race for the final
Champions League place.  Fans of both teams stood and applauded during the 19th
minute in honor of Villa captain Stiliyan Petrov, who was
diagnosed yesterday with acute leukemia. Petrov, who wears No.
19, wiped his eyes as he sat in the stands before standing to
applaud back to the crowd.  Own Goal  Wolverhampton fell further into last place after its home
defeat to Bolton, which got goals from  Martin Petrov , Marcos
Alonso and  Kevin Davies . Wolves remain on 22 points, six fewer
than Wigan in 19th place above it.  Goals from Antolin Alcaraz and Victor Moses gave Wigan its
second straight win, against Stoke, and its first at home in
seven months. Everton used an own goal from Gareth McAuley and a
score from Victory Anichebe to beat West Brom and move one point
ahead of city rival Liverpool into seventh place.  Fulham ended a three-match losing run by beating Norwich on
goals from  Clint Dempsey  and Damien Duff in the opening 13
minutes.  Newcastle hosts Liverpool tomorrow, while Swansea visits
Tottenham.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  