-- Radical Islamists Arrested By France ‘Dangerous,’ Gueant Says
-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 2012-03-31T14:47:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-31/radical-islamists-arrested-by-france-dangerous-gueant-says.html
The radical Islamists arrested
yesterday by French police are dangerous and presented a risk to
security, Interior Minister Claude Gueant told Le Parisien in an
 interview  published today.  Two of the 19 people arrested yesterday were released,
while the rest remain in custody, according to an official at
the ministry. The arrests in raids across France came just over
a week after a self-proclaimed jihadist was killed by police
after he murdered seven people, including three Jewish children,
over a nine-day shooting spree in southwestern France.  President  Nicolas Sarkozy  said yesterday Kalashnikov
automatic weapons were found in the homes of some of those
arrested. Authorities are seeking to prevent further acts of
terrorism after Mohamed Merah this month shot dead three
soldiers, and killed three children and a French-Israeli teacher
at a Jewish school in the Toulouse area.  “There is no room in  France  for radicals,” Gueant told Le
Parisien in the  interview . The weapons seized “confirm the
dangerousness of this group,” which carried out “weekly
exercises that resembled military training,” he told the daily.  Gueant also said “tensions have been rising” since
Merah’s killing spree, with more Jews now being the target of
aggression and some Muslims also being attacked.  ‘Out of Control’  “There is a tangible risk of things getting out of
control,” Gueant was cited as saying.  Additional raids on extremists may take place across the
country, Sarkozy said yesterday.  Sarkozy, who faces an election in about three weeks, has
sought in recent days to show he’s tough on security issues.
France last week decided to deny visas to four preachers who had
been invited to an Islamic conference next month.  Sarkozy leads in the polls in the first round of the
presidential election and has narrowed the gap in support
against Socialist candidate  Francois Hollande  in the decisive
second round.  The first round of the elections will be held on April 22
with the two winners of that vote squaring off on May 6.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in  San Francisco  at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  