-- Schaeuble Condemns Discord ’Nonsense’ Following Euro Spat
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2012-03-31T13:34:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-31/schaeuble-condemns-discord-nonsense-following-euro-spat.html
German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  condemned as “nonsense” a breakdown in communication
that caused a meeting of euro-area finance ministers to descend
into confusion with a spat between Luxembourg and  Austria .  Schaeuble said the abrupt cancellation of a press
conference in Copenhagen yesterday by the meeting’s chairman,
Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  and the following
apology of Austrian Finance Minister Maria Fekter over her pre-
announcement to reporters that the group had limited new bailout
lending to 500 billion euros ($667 billion) could have the
effect of uniting decision makers.  “This is nonsense,” Schaeuble told reporters after the
meeting ended today. “If we want to calm markets, if we want to
win back lost trust that we’re making with the right decisions,
we have to implement them rather than continuing to feed more
and more speculation.”  Schaeuble urged ministers to coalesce around a single
message a day after they agreed on the fresh lending limit. He
criticized Fekter, who appeared before cameras before a final
decision had been made to unveil an 800 billion-euro firewall, a
figure that includes 300 billion euros already committed to
 Greece , Ireland and  Portugal .  Juncker ‘Annoyed’  “Juncker was indeed annoyed, and he wasn’t the only one,”
Schaeuble said.  Juncker left early yesterday, telling reporters on his way
to an elevator that “there was no point in having a press
conference” because of Fekter. About an hour later,
journalists, who had gathered in the main press auditorium,
watched as staff removed his name from the podium and the
briefing was called off.  Fekter, 56, later apologized. The timing of her appearance
“wasn’t optimal,” ministry spokesman Gregor Schuetze said.
Asked after yesterday’s meeting if the spat had been patched up,
Fekter said: “Yes.”  Schaeuble, who said the spat may lead to more verbal
discipline at meetings, also attributed the fallout to 58-year-
old Juncker’s health.  “I hope he’s feeling better next week than he was this
week,” Schaeuble said.  Juncker himself indicated later that he wanted to put an
end to the cacophony of announcements.  “I’m against babbling, so I wanted to make a point,” he
said in an interview yesterday after the tiff.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Copenhagen at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Black in Copenhagen at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  