-- Sudan Accuses South Over Rebel Attack in Oil-Rich State
-- B y   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 2012-03-31T09:18:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-31/sudan-accuses-south-over-rebel-attack-in-oil-rich-state.html
Sudan ’s army accused  South Sudan  of
supporting a rebel attack on a town in the oil-rich border state
of Southern Kordofan and amassing troops.  Clashes between Sudanese insurgents and government soldiers
erupted on March 29 for control of Taludi, close to the border
with newly independent South Sudan. The new country is
supporting rebels from the Sudan People’s Liberation Army with
tanks and artillery, Sudan’s army said in a statement published
yesterday on the state-run SUNA news agency. Government forces
drove off the insurgents, according to the statement.  South Sudan said its troops pursued the Sudan Armed Forces
into the Heglig area and accused them of bombing its forces
along the border between Southern Kordofan and the south’s Unity
state. That fighting stopped on March 28, both sides said.
Rebels from SPLA and the Justice and Equality movement, the main
rebel group in the Darfur region, are now regrouping and
amassing forces at the border south of Heglig, aiming to attack
the Heglig area again, according to the army’s statement.  Fighting between Sudanese government forces and the rebels
has intensified in the states of  Blue Nile  and Southern Kordofan
since South Sudan seceded on July 9, assuming control of three-
quarters of the former unified nation’s crude oil production of
490,000 barrels a day.  Clashes between the armies of the former civil-war foes
along the border prompted expressions of alarm from the
United Nations Security Council, the U.S. and the  African Union .  China National Petroleum Corp., Malaysia’s Petroliam
Nasional Bhd. and  India ’s ONGC Videsh Ltd. pump most of the oil
in the two countries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Salma El Wardany in Khartoum at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  