-- Suu Kyi Stands in Myanmar Election With Sanctions in Bala
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2012-04-01T07:39:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-31/suu-kyi-vies-for-seat-in-myanmar-vote-with-sanctions-in-balance.html
Myanmar dissident  Aung San Suu Kyi 
faced voters for the first time today in by-elections the U.S.
and European nations are watching closely as they consider
lifting sanctions against the former dictatorship.  Suu Kyi, who won the Nobel peace prize during her 15 years
under house arrest, is among those standing for 43 of 664
parliamentary seats left vacant by lawmakers who joined
President Thein Sein’s government. She said two days ago her
National League for Democracy party would tolerate
irregularities in the first vote it’s contesting since 1990.  “It’s more than words, I’m very, very happy,” May Nwe
Soe, a 33-year-old garment factor worker, said of voting in Suu
Kyi’s district today. “I just want Daw Suu to go to
parliament,” she said, using a respectful title for Suu Kyi.  Moves toward greater political freedom in the nation of 64
million people bordering China and  India  have prompted Western
nations to consider easing sanctions as companies from General
Electric Co. to  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  await opportunities to
invest. At stake for Thein Sein is dismantling a legacy of six
decades of isolation that left Myanmar with per capita gross
domestic product of just 14 percent of neighbor Thailand’s.  Suu Kyi, 66, spent last night in a village of 1,400 people
in Kawhmu district about an hour’s drive south of Yangon, the
country’s biggest city. Hundreds of residents yesterday lined a
dirt road heading to the village to get a glimpse of the
daughter of a Myanmar independence hero.  ‘Democracy is Exciting’  “Don’t forget to vote tomorrow,” she told a crowd of
several thousand people who chanted her name and “NLD - We Must
Win” as she stood on a balcony at the house where she was
staying. “Don’t miss this chance. If the people vote for me, I
will come here often and I will try to develop the region.”  Voters started casting ballots when polls opened at 6 a.m.
local time. In 2010, results were announced several days after
the election.  “The voters are coming peacefully,” Myint Oo, the
chairman of a ward in Suu Kyi’s district, said today.
“Democracy is exciting because you can vote.”  Known in Myanmar simply as “The Lady,” Suu Kyi emerged on
Myanmar’s political scene in 1988, when she returned to the
country to care for her ailing mother after years of living
overseas. She was first detained before 1990 elections in which
her party won about 80 percent of seats for a committee that was
designed to draft a new constitution. The military rejected the
results.  Fairness Questioned  Suu Kyi refused to accept an army-drafted constitution in
2008 and boycotted an election two years later in which  Thein
Sein ’s party won a majority. A meeting between Suu Kyi and the
president in August led to her party rejoining the political
system.  In a 90-minute briefing on March 30, Suu Kyi said her party
will accept the results if the will of the people is “fairly
reflected.” She called irregularities including vote-buying,
incorrect voter lists and an incident where a candidate was
almost hit with a betel nut “beyond what is acceptable for
democratic selection.”  “I don’t think we can consider it a genuinely free and
fair election if we take into consideration what has been going
on in the last couple of months,” Suu Kyi told more than 300
journalists gathered at her lakeside home in Yangon. “But still
I will be willing to work toward national reconciliation, so we
will try to tolerate what has happened.”  Suu Kyi has appeared on state-run television and traveled
throughout the country during the campaign period, falling ill
on two occasions from exhaustion. Tens of thousands of people
have greeted her at campaign stops around the country.  Military, Police Unseen  “We’re happy with what we’ve seen,” Chheang Vun, who is
observing the election for  Cambodia , said in Kawhmu district.
“Myanmar is now very different. In the three days we’ve been
here, we have not seen military or police.”  Thein Sein called on all political parties to accept the
results in a March 24 speech published in the state-run  New
Light of Myanmar .  “We all need to work together to ensure that the outcome
is accepted by all the people,” he said.  The elections “aren’t going to fundamentally shift power
in the country, but they are hugely important in representing a
historic compromise” between Suu Kyi’s party and the
government, said Thant Myint-U, an author of two books on
Myanmar whose grandfather, U Thant, was the first Asian head of
the  United Nations . “It will end a long chapter in Burmese
history.”  Currency Float  Myanmar’s political opening is moving in parallel with
efforts to rewrite investment laws and unify multiple exchange
rates that impede trade. The country will adopt a managed float
of its currency today, scrapping a 35-year fixed rate in a move
to modernize the economy, the central bank said in a March 28
statement.  Rich in natural gas, gold and gemstones, Myanmar represents
one of  Asia ’s last untapped frontier markets, attracting
investors such as  Jim Rogers , the chairman of Rogers Holdings,
who predicted a global commodities rally in 1999. Myanmar’s
opening is “a game-changer,” Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill
Lynch said in a March 29 research note.  Honda Motor Co. is interested in building a motorcycle
plant in Myanmar, Hiroshi Kobayashi, president and chief
executive officer of Asian Honda Motor Co., told reporters in
 Thailand  yesterday. The decision will depend on circumstances in
the country and international consensus, he said.  U.S., EU Watching  American sanctions ban investment in Myanmar and imports
from the country, restrict money transfers, freeze assets and
target jewelry with gemstones originating in the nation. The
European Union bans weapons sales and mineral imports.  The by-elections “are a tangible moment in the path to
reform, just like the release of political prisoners in
January,”  Derek Mitchell , U.S. special envoy to Myanmar, told
reporters on March 15. “We will respond after the elections in
an appropriate fashion if we believe they were held free, fair
and transparent.”  Myanmar invited a limited number of election monitors and
journalists from the U.S., EU and neighboring countries. Voters
will pick from 17 parties and seven independent candidates to
fill 37 seats in the lower house, six in the upper house and two
for regional assemblies, according to  Network Myanmar , a U.K.-
based organization that promotes reconciliation in the country.  The by-elections “are a key moment in national
reconciliation and should allow a substantial review of EU
policy vis-à-vis Myanmar,”  Catherine Ashton , the EU’s foreign
policy chief, said in a March 28 statement.  Security Concerns  Elections in three constituencies in Kachin state, home to
a violent ethnic rebellion, were suspended due to security
concerns. Myanmar’s army has displaced 75,000 ethnic Kachins
since last June in an area along the Chinese border,  New York- 
based  Human Rights Watch  said in a March 20 report, underscoring
the challenges that remain for Thein Sein as he aims to make
peace with political rivals.  “Myanmar will become a new model for other countries to
get through a transition with stability and irreversibility,”
Nay Zin Latt, one of nine advisers to Thein Sein, said by e-
mail. “The 2012 by-elections are much more free.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  