-- Switzerland Wants German Investigators Arrested on Espionage
-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s   a n d   L e i g h   B a l d w i n
-- 2012-03-31T13:13:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-31/switzerland-wants-german-tax-investigators-arrested-on-espionage.html
Switzerland  is seeking to arrest
three German tax investigators who negotiated the purchase of
data on  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  clients for economic espionage, a
German government spokeswoman said.  The tax investigators from the state of North Rhine-
Westphalia negotiated the 2.5 million-euro ($3.3 million)
purchase of personal information of clients of Credit Suisse who
may have evaded taxes in Germany in 2010. Ingrid Herden, the
spokeswoman for the state’s finance ministry, said she couldn’t
confirm more details.  The two countries have been trying to agree on a proposal
for a withholding tax that would legalize undeclared assets by
Germans held in Switzerland by imposing a retroactive income
tax. German political parties have been fighting over the
proposed  tax rate .  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said the warrant
won’t affect efforts by the two countries to reach such an
accord.  “Switzerland has its legal system and we have our legal
system,” Schaeuble told reporters today in Copenhagen after
meeting with European finance counterparts. “The justice system
in Switzerland is just as independent as it is in Germany.”  Switzerland’s public prosecution service confirmed it asked
for administrative assistance from Germany in an investigation
into the theft of tax data from Credit Suisse.  There is “concrete suspicion” that people inside Germany
gave instructions to “spy on Credit Suisse” to gather the
data, Jeannette Balmer, a Swiss prosecution spokeswoman, said in
an e-mail today, without giving further detail.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Richard Weiss  in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net ;
Leigh Baldwin in Zurich at 
 lbaldwin3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  