-- World Bank Nominee Kim Meets Chinese Vice Premier
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o   a n d   A n n   H u g h e y
-- 2012-03-31T21:53:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-31/world-bank-nominee-kim-meets-chinese-vice-premier.html
Jim Yong Kim, U.S. nominee to be
president of the  World Bank , met with Chinese Vice Premier  Wang Qishan  in Shaoxing,  China , as part of a global tour to solicit
“priorities and ideas” for the bank’s future, according to a
statement from the  U.S. Treasury .  Kim, a physician and specialist on HIV/AIDS, discussed
“how the World Bank can promote the rapid development and
poverty alleviation achieved by China and  South Korea  throughout
the developing world,” yesterday’s statement said. “Dr. Kim
also reiterated his belief in the importance of a strong voice
for emerging economies in the World Bank.”  President  Barack Obama  proposed Dartmouth College President
Kim, who would be the first Asian-American to head the body.  The World Bank plans to pick its new president April 16
after interviewing the three candidates for the post the
previous week, according to three officials at the lender’s
board.  Nigerian Finance Minister Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala is scheduled
to meet the 25-person board April 9, according to the officials,
who spoke on condition of anonymity because the dates haven’t
been made public. Former Colombian finance minister Jose Antonio Ocampo is to be interviewed on April 10, followed by Kim on
April 11, the officials said.  U.S. Control Challenged  Ocampo and Okonjo-Iweala’s candidacies are a challenge to
American control of the job under an informal agreement that
also gives the leadership of the  International Monetary Fund  to
a European. The U.S. is the bank’s largest shareholder, and an
American has always held the top job.  Ocampo, in a phone interview last week, said he and Okonjo-
Iweala have a chance to win if the selection “respects the
rules of being an open, transparent process based on merit.”  “Maybe it will not change this time,” Ocampo said. “But
in that case we’re putting up the fight so that that system will
be changed forever.”  The new president will succeed  Robert Zoellick , whose term
ends June 30. The new president will take over an institution
that lent $57 billion last year, as private investors step up
their funding for development projects, turning the World Bank
into more of a technical adviser.  The World Bank and the IMF were founded at the end of World
War II to promote international development and economic
cooperation with loans and advice.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  