-- Yen Drops Against All Major Currencies as BOJ Adds Stimul
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2012-03-31T04:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-31/yen-drops-against-all-major-currencies-as-boj-adds-stimul.html
The yen fell by the most since 1995
against its developed-nation counterparts as the Bank of  Japan 
added economic stimulus and signs Europe’s debt crisis was
abating damped safety demand.  The 17-nation euro strengthened against the dollar and the
yen during the quarter after regional leaders agreed on a second
bailout for Greece, spurring optimism that the region was
recovering from its financial crisis. Higher-yielding
currencies, led by Mexico’s peso, rose on signs the  U.S. economy 
was picking up. The U.S. is forecast to report a fourth month of
job gains of more than 200,000 April 6.  “The main driving force behind the yen was the Bank of
Japan embarking on a much easier monetary policy,” said Carl Forcheski, a director on the corporate currency sales desk at
Societe Generale SA in  New York . “The U.S. labor market has
performed a bit better than a lot of people were expecting and
some of the data we’ve seen lately has given us a little bit of
optimism.”  The yen dropped 10.4 percent during the past three months
against the currencies of nine developed-nations, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, in the biggest drop
since the third quarter of 1995.  Price Pattern  The Japanese currency lost 7.8 percent against the dollar
to 82.87 and weakened 10.9 percent to 110.56 per euro in New
York. The shared currency rose 3 percent to $1.3343 this
quarter.  Futures traders added to bets last week that the yen will
decline against the U.S. dollar, figures from the Washington-
based Commodity Futures Trading Commission show. The difference
in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and other large
speculators on a decline in the yen compared with those on a
gain -- so-called net shorts -- was 67,622 on March 27, compared
with net shorts of 25,821 a week earlier.  Mexico ’s peso rose the most against the dollar among the 16
major currencies tracked by Bloomberg, adding 8.1 percent to
12.8107 per dollar. The currency benefited from a stronger
economy in the U.S., its largest trading partner, and from
higher  oil prices . Crude is Mexico’s largest export.  Crude oil added 4.2 percent to $102.93 a barrel and reached
$110.55 earlier this month, the highest level since May 2011.
The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies  CRB Index (CRY)  of raw materials added 1
percent.  Commodity Flows  The gain in commodities prices helped South Africa’s rand
and the  New Zealand dollar . The rand rallied 5.2 percent to
7.6730 per dollar and the kiwi gained 5.3 percent to 81.87 U.S.
cents.  The Australian dollar trailed its higher-yielding peers,
rising against the  U.S. dollar  by the least among the major
currencies. It added 1.3 percent to $1.0346.  The Aussie lagging behind other commodity currencies came
as concern mounted that  China ’s economic growth is slowing.
While the  Reserve Bank  of  Australia  will leave its  interest rate 
at 4.25 percent at its April 3 meeting, it will cut it by 25
basis points this year, according to a Bloomberg News survey.  China lowered its economic growth target to 7.5 percent
from an 8 percent goal in place since 2005, a signal that
leaders are determined to cut reliance on exports and  capital
spending  in favor of consumption.  Economic Influence  “A quarter where markets started off very optimistic, had
a run of bad data, and got very pessimistic on the world outside
the U.S. and relatively optimistic on the U.S.,” Steven Englander, head of Group of 10 currency strategy at Citigroup
Inc. in New York, said in a Bloomberg Radio interview yesterday
on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Ken Prewitt.
“There is a lot of pessimism, especially about China,
especially with how  Europe  is going to evolve -- probably too
much pessimism.”  The yen fell after the BOJ said last month it would expand
its asset-purchase program to 30 trillion yen ($363 billion)
from 20 trillion, with 19 trillion yen set aside for  government
bonds . The central bank also said it will target 1 percent
inflation “for the time being.”  The yen also weakened after the nation’s current account,
the widest measure of trade, turned negative in January for the
first time since 2009 as Japan increased purchases of liquefied
natural gas by 74 percent.  Fed Views  The dollar strengthened earlier this month as U.S. Treasury
yields increased after positive labor-market comments by Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  earlier this month damped
speculation the central bank will add additional monetary
stimulus to boost the economy. Bernanke quashed those bets
earlier this week when he signaled that further accommodative
policy will be needed to buoy the economic recovery.  “Further significant improvements in the  unemployment rate 
will likely require a more-rapid expansion of production and
demand from consumers and businesses, a process that can be
supported by continued accommodative policies,” he said in a
March 26 speech in Arlington, Virginia.  Employers in the U.S. are forecast to boost payrolls by
205,000 this month, according to the median estimate of 54
economists in a Bloomberg News survey before the Labor
Department publishes the report April 6. That would mark a
fourth straight month of increases of more than 200,000. The
unemployment rate held at a three-year low of 8.3 percent in
February.  Euro Path  The euro gained for the first time against the yen this
quarter since the first three months of last year. Its strength
came as a second bailout for  Greece  and a European Central Bank
loan program calmed investor concern about the region’s
sovereign-debt crisis.  Euro-area finance ministers in February awarded 130 billion
euros ($173 billion) in aid to Greece. The nation’s debt-swap
was met with a 95.7 percent participation rate among investors,
easing fiscal pressure on the southern European economy.  The ECB awarded a record 529.5 billion euros in a second
round of three-year loans to banks in an effort to ease lending
pressures in the financial sector. The central bank meets April
4.  The difference in the number of wagers by hedge funds and
other large speculators on a decline in the euro compared with
those on a gain was 89,129 on March 27, compared with net shorts
of 82,954 a week earlier, the CFTC data show.  Implied volatility  of three-month options of Group of Seven
currencies fell to as low as 9.7 percent in February, compared
with a high of 12.37 percent in January, according to the
JPMorgan G7   Volatility Index . A decrease makes investments in
currencies with higher benchmark lending rates more attractive
as there is less risk that market moves will erase profits in
the trades.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  