-- ‘Time of Death’ Is Superb, Intimate; Cool New Zombies: TV
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s
-- 2013-10-31T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/-moment-of-death-is-superb-intimate-cool-zombies-tv.html
A daughter postpones nursing school
to take a final multistate road trip with her dying mother.  Another woman, 25, prepares to take custody of her teenage
half-siblings, honoring the last wish of their 48-year-old
single mom.  Despite the detailed planning, the ends come hard on “ Time
of Death ,” Showtime’s graceful, unsparing documentary series
chronicling the final months in the lives of eight people.  “No one prepares you to see someone die,” says a tearful
Laura Kovarik, four months after the road trip. Her just-deceased mother’s body lies in a bedroom upstairs. “It’s scary,
it’s ugly and you can’t fix it.”  Created by Miggi Hood and produced by Jane Lipsitz, Dan 
Cutforth, Alexandra Lipsitz, Casey Kriley and Cynthia Childs 
(filmmakers known collectively as Magical Elves, the production 
company behind reality programs “ Project Runway ” and 
“ Top Chef ”), “Time of Death” makes a mission of challenging 
television’s reluctance to portray death in a serious, honest 
manner.  Cameras are present through rounds of chemo, numbing grief,
family arguments, hospice care and, in most cases, the moment of
passing.  No Smoking  Each of the six episodes features two or three story lines,
introducing us to, among others, an amyotrophic lateral
sclerosis (ALS) patient who meets his two adult sons for the
first time weeks before his death, and Dr. Antronette Yancey, a
nationally recognized health advocate and non-smoker, in the
final stages of lung cancer.  With one exception, each story concludes with the inevitable
after a single episode.  That exception is Maria Lencioni, the single mother with
breast cancer, whose story develops over the course of the
entire series.  While enduring more than 100 rounds of chemotherapy and an
ever-increasing despondence, Maria struggles to prepare her 25-year-old daughter for the responsibility of raising two very
ornery half-siblings.  With access that recalls the unforced intimacy of public
television’s landmark series “ An American Family ” -- no one here
is playing to the cameras -- “Time of Death” isn’t easy viewing.
The grief can be overwhelming.  And loved ones don’t always behave as we’d expect or hope.
Maria’s self-centered teens rival the bratty villains on any
soap opera, while the younger sister of a dying high-school girl
wastes precious, dwindling time glued to a television.  In other words, the people onscreen are remarkable precisely
because they are not, and “Time of Death” honors every one of
them.  “Time of Death” airs Friday on Showtime at 9 p.m.  New York 
time. Rating: *****  ‘The Returned’  French zombies are much cooler than their brutish American
counterparts, if the stylish, eerie miniseries “ The Returned ”
is any indication.  Making its American debut on Sundance Channel, the addictive
program’s dearly undeparted bear little resemblance to standard-issue flesh-eating walking dead.  Take Camille (Alma Arnal). Several years after a fatal
school bus accident left her at the bottom of a cliff, she
arrives home and greets her stunned mother with the casual
indifference of any bored teen.  Spooky Boy  Set in a modern-day mountain village 35 years after a burst
dam flooded the old town, “The Returned” is chock-full of “ Twin
Peaks ”-worthy characters, including a brooding young man (French
heartthrob Pierre Perrier) ready for the wedding he didn’t live
to see and an intensely spooky little boy (Swann Nambotin) with
a knack for appearing at bloody crime scenes.  Created by Fabrice Gobert and based on the feature film “ Les
Revenants ,” “The Returned” looks gorgeous, with evocative,
lyrical shots of ghostly hordes and drowned animals drifting in
the town’s mysteriously shrinking lake.  A zombie apocalypse? Environmental revenge? The Rapture?
“The Returned” poses more questions than it answers -- a second
season is in the works -- but its restless spirits aren’t easily
shaken off.  “The Returned” airs Thursday on Sundance Channel at 9 p.m
New York time. Rating: ***  (Greg Evans is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  James Russell  on architecture and
 Scene .  To contact the writer on the story: Greg Evans at
 gregeaevans@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 