-- AB InBev Profit Exceeds Estimates on Modelo Unit Savings
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2013-10-31T08:42:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/ab-inbev-quarterly-profit-tops-estimates-on-modelo-cost-savings.html
Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI) , the world’s
biggest brewer, reported third-quarter profit growth that beat
estimates as the company raised prices and reduced expenses
after buying the rest of Mexico’s Grupo Modelo SAB.  So-called organic normalized earnings before interest,
taxation, depreciation and amortization rose 10.5 percent in the
three months through Sept. 30, the Leuven, Belgium-based company
said today in a  statement . The median estimate of nine  analysts 
surveyed by  Bloomberg News  was for growth of 5.7 percent.  The Modelo purchase led to savings of $250 million in the
four months since it closed, leaving AB InBev on track to meet
its $1 billion goal by 2016. At the same time, the brewer has
focused on selling pricier beers in the U.S. as demand for so-called mainstream brands wanes and market growth stagnates. Beer
revenue growth on an organic basis rose 3 percent in the
quarter, falling short of the 3.9 percent analysts anticipated.  “As we expected, this was not a good performance from a
topline standpoint and the company leaned heavily on cost saving
and pricing to make these numbers,” Anthony Bucalo, an analyst
at Banco Santander SA in London, wrote in a note. “Management
was sorely tested this quarter and came through in the newly
acquired  Mexico  business and over-delivered in  Asia .”  AB InBev’s  shares  rose as much as 3.5 percent, the steepest
gain since Sept. 19. They were up 1.5 percent at 9:29 a.m.  The volume of beer sold by the company in the U.S. and
 Brazil , AB InBev’s biggest markets, fell more than the industry.  ‘Growth Potential’  U.S. sales slid 2.7 percent compared with the beer market’s
1 percent decline there, the brewer said. AB InBev is
“confident about the long-term growth potential for the
industry, although labor participation and unemployment rates
among young adult males remain a concern.”  Brazilian selling volume fell 5 percent and the company
said it expects full-year sales for the country’s beer market to
be at the “lower-end” of its guidance for an unchanged to low-single-digit decline. Industry volume in Brazil fell 4.3 percent
in the quarter because of a weak economy, AB InBev said.  “We are not satisfied with our top-line performance in
2013,” the company said, adding that plans are in place for a
“fast start in 2014.” The company’s Budweiser brand is the
official beer of next year’s soccer  World Cup , which is “due to
bring tremendous excitement to Brazil,” Chief Financial Officer
Felipe Dutra said on a conference call today.  Cost Savings  The integration of Modelo is achieving cost savings quicker
than anticipated, the company said. Corona, the main brand
acquired in the takeover, increased organic sales by 3.7 percent
outside the U.S. The “very special brand” will be rolled out
across Brazil ahead of the World Cup.  AB InBev joins rivals in reporting sales that missed
estimates. Heineken NV last week cut its forecast for full-year
profit after sales fell short of expectations amid weak
consumption by beer drinkers in central and eastern  Europe . AB
InBev’s profit in that region fell 38 percent, the company said
today, as beer volume tumbled 26 percent in Ukraine.  Consumer-goods companies including Unilever and Diageo Plc
have reported decelerating sales in  emerging markets , prompting
concern about a slowdown in regions they’d previously relied
upon to offset sluggish conditions in the U.S. and Europe.  Projections for emerging-market growth “were somehow
linked to very, very high expectations that had to be reset,”
Dutra said. “In our case we feel expectations were not that
high, and what we’re facing is maybe at the low end of the
range, but not off the charts and not a material departure from
what we’d already said.”  Asia-Pacific  Asia-Pacific sales grew 8.4 percent as AB InBev expanded
its distribution of Budweiser and Harbin in  China .  Total normalized Ebitda in the quarter was $4.66 billion,
compared with the $4.47 billion median estimate. The measure
excludes some items, while organic normalized Ebitda also strips
out the effect of currency shifts and acquisitions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in  London  at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  