-- Abe Aide Honda Advocates 29% Japan Corporate Tax to Stoke Growth
-- B y   A n d y   S h a r p ,   A i k a   N a n a o   a n d   D a v i d   M e r r i t t
-- 2013-10-31T00:45:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/abe-aide-honda-advocates-29-japan-corporate-tax-to-stoke-growth.html
Japan should lower its effective
corporate tax rate to  Germany ’s level, around 29 percent, to
help bolster growth, according to one of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s top economic aides.  “The effective rate should be lowered to the global
standard of advanced economies,” Etsuro Honda, 58, said in an
interview at the Prime Minister’s office in Tokyo yesterday. A
reduction in the rate, estimated by the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development at 37 percent, should be
included in the reforms Abe plans to help revive the nation’s
economy after two decades of stagnation, according to Honda.  With monetary and fiscal stimulus already under way, the
government’s focus is shifting to efforts to persuade companies
-- which are sitting on near-record cash holdings -- to boost
investment and wages. Honda said that salary rises in excess of
1 percent are needed in spring 2014  wage  negotiations, and that
compensation gains are “essential for the success of Abenomics.”  Honda, who advised Abe on his pick for governor of the Bank
of Japan and advocated that he adopt ending deflation as a
policy priority, offered companies little hope of relief from
labor regulations that limit their ability to fire workers. He
said the government should put off any such deregulation until
at least 2015.  “Next year will be too early for us to decide,” on such a
step, Honda said. “We need another one and half years so we can
at least get out of deflation and reach an inflationary
macroeconomic environment, then the conditions would be ready
for us to revise regulations that protect regular staff.”  Lifetime Jobs  Abe’s stimulus measures have weakened the yen and helped
corporate profits, and his challenge now is to deliver on
pledges to reduce business regulations and sustain growth. Five-decade-old labor rules based on lifetime employment are ripe for
overhaul, according to Robert Feldman, head of  Japan  economic
research at Morgan Stanley MUFG Securities Co.  The Bank of Japan in April unleashed unprecedented monetary
easing in its bid to reach its target of 2 percent  inflation 
within a time-frame of about two years.  Honda, a friend of Abe for about 30 years, said yesterday
that the central bank should be prepared to step in if needed
after the introduction of a 3 percentage-point sales-tax
increase in April. Gross domestic product is forecast to
contract an annualized 4 percent in the second quarter next year,
according to the median estimate of 26 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News.  BOJ Action  “The Bank of Japan will do more aggressive easing in the
case that real GDP plunges deeper than we expected after
April,” Honda said. Any decision on further central bank
stimulus would probably have to wait until after growth data
comes out for the April-June period, he said. Such figures are
due in August.  Mortgage-backed securities are a candidate for the BOJ to
purchase, in addition to Japanese government bonds and riskier
assets such as exchange-traded funds, Honda said. The BOJ today
releases updated projections for the nation’s economy, and is
forecast by economists to leave its policy stance unchanged.
Governor Haruhiko Kuroda is scheduled to brief reporters after
the decision in  Tokyo .  Japan’s corporate tax rate is among the highest in major
developed economies, according to the Paris-based OECD. “The
corporate tax rate in Germany and  France  is moderate and
acceptable, but we should avoid the race to the bottom,” Honda
said.  Honda advocated a rate similar to that in France and
Germany, which he estimated around 29 percent. OECD data show
Germany’s rate at 30.2 percent and France at 34.4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Sharp in Tokyo at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  