-- Labradors Graduate Auburn With Scent Prowess to Guard Marathons
-- B y   J o n   D e a n
-- 2013-10-31T21:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/labradors-graduate-auburn-with-scent-prowess-to-guard-marathons.html
At the sight of his leash, Baxter
explodes out of his crate.  The leash means work, work means reward, and that’s
Baxter’s reason for being. The adolescent yellow Labrador
retriever has only eight months of training, so he yanks and
skitters more than a fully trained dog. But once his handler
clicks the lead onto his collar, he raises his nose and swivels
his head side to side, sampling air currents, until he smells
something he recognizes. Then his behavior visibly changes.
Baxter is “on scent” and quickens his pace, his head and tail
up, narrowing in on a cluster of vehicles.  We’re on the campus of Auburn University, about 45 minutes
south of the base of operations for the school’s Canine
Detection Research Institute in Anniston,  Alabama . An outgrowth
of Auburn’s veterinary school, the CDRI trains an average of 200
handler-and-dog teams a year for clients such as  Amtrak , the
U.S. Marshals Service, and smaller law enforcement agencies,
Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its Nov. 4 issue.  Since opening in 2001, it built a reputation as a center
for rigorous canine science. The CDRI’s associate director, Paul
Waggoner, looks on as Baxter works one vehicle after another,
quickly sniffing in the areas he’s been taught to focus on --the
gas tank, fender seams, and creases by the trunk, any spot where
vapor could be escaping. Suddenly he sits next to one car. His
handler reaches under a bumper and pulls out a small pouch of
TNT. The whole process took maybe 90 seconds.  “Think of it this way: How long would it take us to clear
this lot?” says Craig Angle, who oversees canine fitness at the
CDRI. “We’d have to tear those cars apart. Dogs are force
multipliers.”  Centuries Old  Scent-detection dogs have been bred over centuries for
hunting, and they’ve adapted rapidly from tracking the blood of
a wounded doe to sniffing out anything else humans ask them to
find, from cancer to bedbugs to explosives. The best sniffing
breeds -- Labradors, springer spaniels, German shorthaired
pointers -- tend to be low to the ground, with floppy ears that
stir up the air, directing particles into the nostrils. Dogs
sniff five times a second, and each nostril pulls in a separate
sample, which helps them find the direction of a scent’s source.  The dog’s nasal physiology differentiates between air for
breathing and air for sampling; the latter is diverted through
an olfactory organ that only scent-driven animals have (rodents
being the other leading example), where receptors hang from a
layer of tissue known as the olfactory epithelium like
electrical fixtures from a ceiling. A scent dog has as many as
300 million of these receptors, compared with 5 million in
humans. Thirty-five percent of a dog’s brain is dedicated to
smell.  Vapor Wakes  Most detection dogs are brought to a source; they sniff a
specific target (a car, a suitcase) or, like Baxter, sweep an
area, sniffing every possible target. But Waggoner and his team
at the CDRI are working to train even more sophisticated dogs,
including specialists who can pick up the trail of particles a
person carrying an explosive leaves behind as he moves through a
crowd. They call these dogs Vapor Wakes. “Vapor Wakes are the
only thing that might have helped on that corner,” says Tim
Dunnigan, referring to Boylston and Exeter streets, near the
Boston Marathon finish line, where the Tsarnaev brothers placed
a pair of backpack bombs in April.  Dunnigan, 45, is the founder of  iK9 , a startup that would
like to build a $200 million business beginning with the Vapor
Wakes and broadening the role of detection dogs in the private
sector, both domestically and abroad. IK9 is a spinoff from a
defense consulting firm Dunnigan founded in Columbus,  Georgia ,
in 2009, Strategic Integration. SI works primarily with special-operations troops, providing materials support and a tactical
training ground on a huge former plantation owned by a silent
partner.  Soldier Dogs  For certain tasks, the world’s elite soldiers rely
enormously on canines, and Dunnigan was struck that a tool so
critical to security was still so poorly understood.  Detection dogs are such a freewheeling business that a U.S.
government training standard does not exist among the many
departments deploying them in the field.  “Detection-dog training has been a vocation where most of
the knowledge has been handed down in master-apprentice
manner,” Waggoner says. “That’s led to a lot of unproven ideas
and ways of doing things.” It’s still a young field, he says,
and remains a “trust me” kind of business. “It was just sort
of, dogs do what they do, and these professionals have the magic
of how to train them, but no one understands it.”  As the commercial partner for all applied science developed
at Auburn’s CDRI, iK9 -- the “i” doesn’t stand for anything --
aims to innovate in an industry that hasn’t seen much, with
Vapor Wake dogs as its calling card.  Hard Sell  Even so, a $25,000 “technology” that requires constant
maintenance isn’t an easy sell. As much as anything, Dunnigan’s
strategy seems to be to raise the industry’s profile and demand
that anyone offering canine detection adhere to standards that
have yet to be formalized. One challenge, he says, is that
“everybody thinks his technique is the best.”  Until recently, the man who wants to reinvent the
detection-dog business had little actual dog experience. It took
a  meeting between Dunnigan and Paul Hammond, an Englishman
who’d spent his entire career training and handling dogs in
conflict zones, to get iK9 going. Hammond served 15 years in the
British Army dog unit in Northern Ireland and then an additional
seven years as a military contractor in the Middle East. Hammond
knew how to train dogs, but to launch a training program from
scratch would take years, and Dunnigan doesn’t have that kind of
patience. They decided they’d need to acquire credibility, and
that’s what led them to the CDRI.  Business Partner  As it happened, the university was looking for a business
partner. In 2005 the U.S. Marine Corps had come to Auburn in
search of a dog that could hunt bombs off-leash, lowering human
risk. Waggoner and his team obliged, taking a conventional bomb
dog and retraining it. They called it stand-off detection. Dogs
trained in this method, known as tactical explosive detection
dogs (TEDDs), are now in use across the armed forces. Because
Auburn never bothered to patent the concept or training methods,
the idea was up for grabs, and when the U.S. government wanted
more TEDDs, it awarded a contract worth $20 million to K2
Solutions, a working dog company based in Southern Pines, North
Carolina. “That will never happen again,” Dunnigan says.  To put themselves on the map in a hurry, iK9 figured it
needed something newer than TEDDs, so it patented and
trademarked Vapor Wakes.  Paid Salaries  Under the terms of the partnership, iK9 pays the salary of
all of Auburn’s trainers and shares a cut with the university
(the company declined to say how much) for what it earns leasing
and selling the dogs. IK9 also has first right of refusal to
commercialize CDRI breakthroughs.  Shortly after formalizing their business relationship in
2012, Hammond relocated to Anniston and began working with the
CDRI’s head trainer, John Pearce, to streamline Vapor Wake
training. They cut the program’s duration from 12 weeks to 6,
making the dogs more affordable to police departments and
agencies. Hammond says he could properly train 25 world-class
detector dogs every three months if he could find the breeding
stock.  By absorbing the CDRI’s training arm, iK9 overnight gained
a 26-person staff, a fully outfitted, 320-acre training
facility, and direct access to a research operation that’s
likely to develop the next big thing in tracking hounds. Quite
possibly, it will be an autonomous detector dog -- an animal
directed remotely by global positioning system.  Dog Remote  Last year, Waggoner outfitted a  Labrador  named Major with a
clunky array of equipment that received signals from a computer
and directed the dog where to go using a preset course. A more
advanced version could enable dogs to sweep buildings or cities
far out of sight of trainers while relaying data back. The
Office of Naval Research has been on the hunt for just such a
dog, so there’s plenty of reason to think that the CDRI can
revive the project with iK9.  In their short partnership, iK9 and Auburn have already
been awarded a  Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency  grant
to teach bomb dogs to submit to MRIs so their brains can be
observed while sniffing different odors. Next up is a plan to
create a more heat-tolerant detector dog, because the animals
tire quickly on hot days and heat seems to degrade their
sniffing abilities. Angle, the CDRI canine physiologist, will
spearhead that effort and begin to answer many other questions
no one’s ever asked. “We don’t even know what a dog’s ideal
resting heart rate is,” he says.  Fragmented Market  The detector-dog marketplace is fragmented, and no one
knows for sure how large it is, but principals from the major
companies estimate it at $400 million to $700 million. Whatever
the exact number is, it’s “absolutely a number that will go
up,” Dunnigan says. To get to $200 million, he counts on
securing dozens of annual contracts at about $300,000 per dog-and-handler team, noting that the new Freedom Tower tour in
Lower Manhattan alone could easily require six to eight teams.
He plans to bid on 50 similar contracts in the New York area
while diversifying into other applications such as bedbug
detection. Military posts abroad, the single largest market for
detection dogs, may be closing, but bombs have emerged as a
great threat, to both armed forces personnel and civilians. It’s
grim, but it means opportunity.  The world’s largest detector-dog company is American K-9
Detection Services, or  AMK9 , based in Lake Mary,  Florida . Its
business has been almost entirely contract work for the
military, which is also the case for its rival K2 Solutions.  Dog Companies  The other major players are MSA Security, which dominates
the New York market, the largest by far for domestic bomb dogs;
Denver, Indiana-based Vohne Liche Kennels, known for being the
centerpiece of the reality-TV show Alpha Dogs; and Stapleton
Group, a New York startup run primarily by Paul Stapleton, son
of Michael Stapleton, widely considered the pioneer of private-sector bomb dogs when he was building MSA into a multimillion-dollar business.  Even though the potential market is immense -- any high-traffic location or corporate headquarters is vulnerable -- not
everyone is willing to pay. For one thing, the vast majority of
bomb dogs will never save hundreds of lives by discovering a
trunk full of C4 explosive. In the eyes of many security
directors, it’s just another expense with little payoff.  Customers’ Doubts  “The reality is, you’re not ever going to find a (real)
bomb, especially if you’re doing sporadic work,” Paul Stapleton
says. To ensure security, detector-dog teams need to be at work
around the clock, and because dogs require rewards to be
effective, handlers must constantly challenge them. This is
tedious, expensive work, and it’s easy to get lazy. Dogs are
excellent at intuiting signals from their handlers, but it’s
almost impossible for a lay person to know the difference
between a dog that’s really finding bomb residue and one that’s
just responding to direction.  Customers will always have doubts, and Stapleton doesn’t
blame them. “You’re taking a lot of people’s lives in your
hands to make a few bucks, and it’s frightening.”  While a bomb dog can be bought outright for $25,000 to
$40,000, that arrangement requires the purchaser to maintain the
dog’s training, which is why most are leased. Contracts are
long-term, at least a year; an annual contract for a dog-and-handler team, according to Stapleton, might cost $300,000. It
would take multiple teams for 24-hour coverage.  “You wouldn’t believe how slim our margins are,” he says.
“There’s so much back-end expense.”  Long Training  Training is lengthy: The dogs need regular practice, and
they don’t go home after work to their spouses -- they need
someone to watch them at night, too. There’s little or no room
to shave costs without affecting the quality of the dogs. Still,
in the 12 years since Sept. 11, Stapleton says, the price-per-hour of a bomb-dog team on a year contract has fallen by half
because of an increase in competition and a drop-off in demand
before the most recent domestic terrorism.  “Our phones were ringing off the hook after  Boston ,”
Stapleton says. Such urgency quickly fades. It’s a recurring
cycle, which aggravates his father, Michael, to no end. In
Michael’s estimation, it’s fairly simple insurance math. “One
evacuation of a complete headquarters pays for that bomb dog in
one day.” The goal of a corporate security director, Michael
says, is “to prevent anyone from choosing your facility as a
target.” A visible bomb dog, if nothing else, is a deterrent.  Serious Threat  “Boston showed people the vulnerability that we have in
our societies,” says Mike O’Neil, who was first commanding
officer of the  New York Police Department  Counterterrorism
Division before becoming president of MSA Security. “It is not
a business line. It is not a pitch that I give to people. You
need to be serious about your security program, because the
threat is serious. It could happen any day, at any given moment,
at any given time.”  Dunnigan introduced iK9 to the industry in July at the 2013
Police & Military Working Dog Conference in Nashville,
 Tennessee . By summer’s end, iK9 took over handler and dog
training for AMK9. He’s formed a critical alliance with the
Stapletons. Through their ties to Giuliani Partners, the former
New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani’s security company, Dunnigan is
working up a pitch to security officials for the 2016 Olympics
in Rio de Janeiro.  New York  He’s also broken into New York; six Vapor Wakes came to the
city for a 5-kilometer charity run on Sept. 29, an audition for
much larger races, such as the Nov. 3 ING New York City
Marathon. The meeting Dunnigan is most excited about, however,
is one he recently had in Abu Dhabi. After a seven-month
negotiation and multiple trips to the Persian Gulf, he was
summoned there to talk with the International Golden Group, one
of the largest defense contractors in the Middle East.  Dunnigan brought two Vapor Wake dog-and-handler teams on
the trip to show off. Because it’s illegal for civilians to
travel with explosives,  he had to rely on the locals to source
some for his demonstration. Vapor Wake dogs are intended to find
suicide bombers, who wear large quantities of explosives --
several pounds, at least -- but the local contact had sourced
only a tiny amount, maybe a few ounces.  Dunnigan and his handlers were worried it wouldn’t be
enough, but the dogs performed ably. Perhaps too ably. One
observer, a Moroccan police official, remained skeptical. He
suggested that because the person carrying the explosives was an
iK9 trainer the dog might have been signaled, or that she was
just going to the person she knew best. Dunnigan offered to try
the experiment again, this time with the officer carrying the
package.  Risky Test  It was risky, he says. This was a minute amount, and if the
dog were to fail to find it on the Moroccan, any neutral party
would rightly question the veracity of the whole thing. An iK9
trainer put the stuff into the man’s front pocket, sent him
away, and told him to return 10 minutes later to walk through
the crowd. When he did, the man grabbed a friend to walk closely
by, further shielding the pocket. But the dog picked him right
up. “After that,” Dunnigan recalls, “people lined up and
said, ‘Where do I get mine?’ ”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jon Dean in New York at 
 jondean@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bradford Wieners at 
 bwieners@bloomberg.net  