-- Macquarie Profit Climbs 39% as Firm Predicts Further Gains
-- B y   N a r a y a n a n   S o m a s u n d a r a m
-- 2013-11-01T06:10:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/macquarie-group-posts-39-rise-in-profit-and-sees-further-gains.html
Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG) , Australia’s
biggest investment bank, boosted half-year net income 39 percent
and proposed to distribute to shareholders its stake in Sydney
Airport, sending its shares to a three-and-a-half-year  high .  Profit for the six months ended Sept. 30 rose to A$501
million ($474 million) from A$361 million a year earlier, the
Sydney-based firm said in a statement today. That compares with
the A$504 million median estimate of nine analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg News. The bank expected a stronger second half.  Macquarie is benefiting from a revival in financial market
activity as Chief Executive Officer Nicholas Moore shifts from
deal-making and trading to less volatile businesses such as
lending and fund management. The bank’s assets under management
climbed 13 percent from a year earlier to A$385 billion.  “The Sydney Airport security proposal is a smart way of
distributing the assets,” said  Paul Xiradis , chief executive
officer of Sydney-based Ausbil Dexia Ltd., which manages about
$9 billion in assets including Macquarie shares. “While the
distribution is real value back to shareholders, results were
solid too. The market recovery bodes well for the second half.”  Macquarie shares  rose  4.2 percent to A$53.10 in Sydney to
close at their highest since Feb. 4, 2010. That extended gains
for the year to 50 percent. The benchmark  S&P/ASX 200 (AS51)  index  fell 
0.3 percent.  Stronger Full Year  The bank said it expects an improved result for the full
year to March 31 from a year earlier and a stronger outcome in
the second half than the first. Macquarie will post a 27 percent
 increase  in net income to A$1.08 billion in the year to March
31, according to the average of 11 analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  The bank retained its forecast of a higher profit
contribution from its fund management, securities and investment
banking units in the full year and said it now expects its
corporate and asset finance business to also contribute a higher
profit. It lowered its expectation for the fixed-income,
currencies and commodities business, which it said will
contribute less profit this year after recording a 7 percent
fall in net profit to A$203 million in the first half.  Fund management  contributed  the most to Macquarie Group’s
first-half profit, posting a 40 percent rise to A$500 million
from a year earlier, while its banking unit registered a 10
percent profit drop. Macquarie Securities, the bank’s equity
trading business, reported a net profit of A$71 million after a
year-earlier loss of A$64 million.  Investment Banking  Macquarie Capital, the advisory and underwriting unit,
reported a jump in net profit to A$101 million from A$10 million
a year earlier. In  Australia , whose 37 percent contribution to
Macquarie’s revenue makes it the bank’s largest market, mergers
and acquisitions have totaled $61.3 billion so far this year
compared with $88.1 billion all of last year, the data show.  Equity offerings are gaining momentum in Australia. Around
a dozen companies are planning to list on Australia’s stock
exchange by year-end as business confidence surges following a
change in the nation’s government, according to Commonwealth
Bank of Australia, the nation’s biggest lender.  Airport Distribution  The bank plans to distribute its stake in Sydney Airport to
Macquarie shareholders, who will get one share in Sydney Airport
for every share they own in Macquarie. The bank, which owns 16.8
percent or 369 million shares in the airport operator, will
distribute 340 million of the securities to its shareholders, it
said in today’s statement.  Based on  Sydney Airport’s closing price  yesterday, the 340
million shares were valued at A$1.4 billion. Distribution of the
shares, which is set for January, would give Macquarie a A$377
million gain, it said. The process will reduce Macquarie’s
surplus capital by A$250 million and if implemented, the bank’s
buyback of its own shares will be canceled, it said. As part of
this process, Macquarie plans to consolidate its own shares by
swapping 0.9438 share for each held.  “The Sydney airport securities distribution removes the
capital impost, resulting in an improvement in ROE as well as
additional distribution to shareholders, which should support
the share price,” Victor German, a Sydney-based analyst at
 Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) , said.  More Employees  Macquarie had surplus capital of A$3.1 billion as of Sept.
30, and announced an interim dividend of A$1 a share,
representing a payout ratio of 67 percent of profit. It raised
the dividend payout range to 60 percent to 80 percent in May
after it couldn’t find immediate use for its capital.  The bank employed 13,901 people as of Sept. 30, up from
13,663 in March and increased total operating costs by 13
percent. Macquarie’s return on equity, a measure of how
effectively the bank invests shareholder funds, was 8.7 percent,
up from 7.8 percent in March and still about half the return
delivered by Australia’s largest commercial banks.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  reported Oct. 17 that its third-quarter net income rose to $1.52 billion from $1.51 billion a
year earlier as it cut expenses to offset the largest drop in
revenue among the biggest Wall Street banks. Morgan Stanley’s
third-quarter earnings beat analysts’ estimates as equity
trading revenue jumped. Nomura Holdings Inc. on Oct. 29 said its
quarterly profit rose less than analysts estimated as demand
waned for Japanese stocks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Narayanan Somasundaram in Sydney at 
 nsomasundara@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  