-- ACS Consolidates Hochtief Hold With Appointment, Buyback
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2013-10-31T09:39:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/acs-consolidates-hochtief-hold-with-appointment-buyback.html
Actividades de Construccion &
Servicios SA , Spain’s biggest builder, appointed a stalwart of
its domestic business to the board of an Australian unit, adding
to a share buyback to tighten its control of  Hochtief AG. (HOT)   Leighton Holdings Ltd. (LEI) , majority-owned by Essen, Germany-based Hochtief, appointed Adolfo Valderas Martinez as chief
operating officer, the Sydney-based company said in a statement
today. Valderas Martinez joins Leighton, Australia’s largest
construction, from Iridium Concesiones de Infraestructuras, a
Madrid-based ACS unit.  Hochtief is midway through a share buyback that will give
ACS control of 59.9 percent of the voting rights in  Germany ’s
biggest building company. Hochtief Chief Executive Officer
Marcelino Fernandez Verdes, who’s seeking to stabilize
profitability and focus on infrastructure projects, joined the
German builder as COO in March 2012 before taking the top job
eight months later.  “It is clear that ACS wants to have a tighter control of
the operations,” Juan Carlos Calvo, a Lisbon-based analyst at
Banco Espirito Santo SA with a buy recommendation on ACS and a
neutral rating on Hochtief, said by phone. “Leighton has been
facing some concerns about the evolution of the mining business
in  Australia , also working capital, let alone some scandals from
the previous management.”  Leighton shares have tumbled 8.5 percent since Oct. 2 after
Australian newspaper the Age reported that former executives
knew about the paying of bribes to win contracts, an allegation
that one of the managers has denied. Leighton has been under
investigation by the Australian Federal Police since at least
February 2012 after the company reported potentially illegal
activity by a subsidiary in  Iraq .  ‘Unique Understanding’  “Adolfo’s experience in managing a leading global company
in the construction and operation of government concessions
gives him a unique understanding of the development, financing,
construction and operation of public infrastructure,” Leighton
CEO Hamish Tyrwhitt said in today’s statement.  Valderas Martinez served under Hochtief CEO Fernandez
Verdes, another veteran of Madrid-based ACS, at Grupo Dragados
about a decade ago. Since 2010, he has run Iridium, which
develops, builds and administers government concessions and
infrastructure projects. Hochtief owns 56.5 percent of Leighton
shares, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, after boosting
its stake in July.  ACS owns 58.5 percent of the voting rights in Hochtief,
according to an Oct. 28 filing. The Spanish builder owns 49.9
percent of the equity, and at the time of the buyback’s start
controlled 54.3 percent of the votes, according to the German
company’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Webb in Munich at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  