-- Madoff Urged Realistic Backdated Trades, Jury Told
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2013-11-01T17:08:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/madoff-urged-realistic-backdated-trades-jury-told.html
David Kugel, a trader at  Bernard Madoff ’s brokerage for 38 years, told a jury the con man let him
use backdated trades to boost profit in his personal investment
account, as long as they didn’t look “ridiculous.”  Kugel testified yesterday in Manhattan federal court at the
trial of five former Madoff employees that most of the fake
trading data he created was used for customer accounts managed
by defendants Annette Bongiorno and Joann Crupi, who ran the
investment business at the center of Madoff’s $17 billion Ponzi
scheme. Using fake trades for himself was a “bonus,” he said.  Kugel, who was hired out of Pace University by Madoff in
1970, pleaded guilty to fraud two years ago. He testified that
Madoff sometimes asked him for investment calculations during
his first year on the job, and he didn’t know why. When Kugel
discovered the scheme and his role in it around 1977, he said he
continued helping to make sure the fake trades looked realistic.  “He was my boss and he asked me to do something,” Kugel
said of Madoff, who also pleaded guilty and is serving a 150-year sentence at a federal prison in North Carolina. “I knew it
was wrong, but I didn’t question him.”  On trial alongside the two women are Daniel Bonventre, who
oversaw the broker-dealer and proprietary trading operations
where Kugel worked; and computer programmers George Perez and
Jerome O’Hara, who allegedly automated the creation of millions
of fake documents. All five have pleaded not guilty to charges
of conspiring to trick customers and regulators for years.  Second Week  Kugel, giving an insider’s view of how the world’s biggest
Ponzi scheme was carried out, is the first witness to testify to
admit involvement in the fraud, which unraveled with Madoff’s
arrest on Dec. 11, 2008. The trial is in its second week of
testimony before U.S. District Judge Laura Taylor Swain, who
said it may last as long as five months.  Prosecutors yesterday sent a letter to Swain, challenging
her request that both sides offer mid-trial summaries of their
cases to aid the jury’s comprehension of the testimony and
issues in the prosecution. The U.S. argued its summary could
potentially result in a conviction being overturned on appeal.  Defense lawyers said in their opening statements on Oct. 17
that Kugel and other former Madoff employees who have pleaded
guilty in the case -- about half a dozen of them -- are willing
to lie and implicate their former colleagues to get less time
behind bars when they’re sentenced.  Madoff Hires  Bongiorno, who joined Madoff’s company immediately after
high school and worked for him for 40 years, claims Madoff
manipulated her and she didn’t know she was taking part in a
fraud. Crupi, who joined Madoff straight out of college in 1983,
made a similar argument.  Kugel, born in  Cleveland  and raised in  Brooklyn , New York,
said yesterday that while at first he didn’t know why Bongiorno
asked him for old pricing data, he began to suspect right away.
His suspicions were confirmed, he said, when he opened a
personal investment account with Madoff in 1977 and saw the
backdated trades he created appear on his own statements.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Matthew Schwartz asked Kugel why he
opened an account -- with $25,000 from the sale of his father-in-law’s house -- when he knew the business was fraudulent.
Kugel said that when he asked his boss where the money was
really going, Madoff said he was putting it in shopping centers,
foreign currency and other investments.  Backdated Trades  Kugel said he believed Madoff and didn’t press him further.  Madoff eventually allowed Kugel to pick backdated trades
for his personal account, Kugel said. Madoff told him to keep
the trades realistic, saying, “Don’t make it look ridiculous,”
Kugel testified. His account held about $10 million at one
point, including $5 million in real deferred compensation, he
said.  Kugel said he stopped providing the fake trading data for
client accounts in the 1990s, when Madoff changed his investment
strategy for the business from convertible arbitrage trades --
Kugel’s specialty -- to a so-called split-strike strategy.  Madoff allowed Kugel to use his corporate credit card for
thousands of dollars in personal expenses, and Kugel always paid
it back, he testified. Asked why he would repay money to Madoff
when there was so much fraud going on, Kugel said, “Because I
owed it to him.”  Guilty Plea  Kugel has also pleaded guilty to mortgage fraud for putting
false investment information on loan paperwork. He said Oct. 30
that Madoff and Crupi were involved in that scheme, too.  Industry experts, fraud examiners and former administrative
assistants at Madoff’s company have already taken the witness
stand. It’s the first criminal trial stemming from fraud, which
deprived investors of $17 billion in principal and about $47
billion in fake profit they believed to be in their accounts.  Kugel said Bongiorno approached him weekly starting in the
early 1970s seeking data based on specific desired profits over
a set period for certain clients, which he said he obtained from
the Wall Street Journal and other sources to mimic real trades.
In the 1980s and 1990s, he supplied the same type of information
to Crupi, he said.  Kugel gave Bongiorno information “based on the way the
stock traded that day,” so it “didn’t look out of line,” he
said. “It looked like a real trade.”  Fake Confirmation  Prosecutors had Kugel explain a fake trade confirmation
sheet displayed on monitors for the jury. The confirmation from
September 1982 showed 1,235 shares of Emhart Corp. purchased for
Bongiorno’s personal investment account, for $72,093.13.  Kugel said that for a given fake transaction, he provided
the date, stock symbol and a range of realistic prices based on
his research, while Bongiorno calculated the number of required
shares to buy or sell and chose a price from the range. Schwartz
displayed as evidence handwritten share calculations that
matched the trade data on Bongiorno’s Emhart trade confirmation.  Kugel used a calculator on the witness stand when asked to
describe to the jury how he created fake trading information. As
he explained the calculations over several minutes, some jurors
shifted in their seats, looked at one another and smiled. One
laughed.  Schwartz asked Kugel if Madoff was good at math.  “Certain aspects yes, certain aspects no,” Kugel said.
“He had trouble with long division.”  The case is U.S. v. O’Hara, 10-cr-00228, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in federal court in Manhattan at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Dunn at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  