-- Thai Baht, Bonds Gain a Second Month as Foreigners Buy Assets
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2013-10-31T02:32:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/thai-baht-bonds-gain-a-second-month-as-foreigners-buy-assets.html
Thailand ’s baht and government bonds
headed for a second monthly gain as foreigners bought more local
assets amid speculation the  Federal Reserve  will delay cutting
its record stimulus that has spurred emerging-market inflows.  Global funds  purchased  $1.4 billion more Thai bonds than
they sold this month through yesterday and poured a net $89
million into stocks, official data show. The Fed maintained its
$85 billion of monthly bond purchases yesterday, saying it needs
to see more evidence that the economy is improving while noting
signs of “underlying strength.” The U.S. temporarily resolved
a budget impasse earlier, ending a 16-day government shutdown.  “Risk sentiment improved this month with the U.S. reaching
a deal on its debt, while there’s speculation of delay in
stimulus reduction,” said  Tsutomu Soma , the manager of the
fixed-income business unit at Rakuten Securities Inc. in  Tokyo .
“We are seeing some fund inflows to the region, and that helped
the baht and bonds.”  The baht advanced 0.7 percent in October to 31.088 per
dollar as of 9:20 a.m. in Bangkok, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The currency, which declined 0.1 percent today,
trimmed this year’s loss to 1.6 percent.  One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves
in exchange rates used to price options, dropped 173 basis
points from the end of September to 5.69 percent. The rate fell
seven basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, today.  Current Account  A central bank report today may say the nation’s current-account surplus narrowed to $1.1 billion in September from $1.3
billion the previous month, when the nation posted its first
excess since March, according to the median estimate of
economists in a Bloomberg survey. The report is due 2:30 p.m.
local time. A customs report on Oct. 25 showed exports dropped
7.1 percent last month.  “A further gain in the baht seems a bit difficult with
some negative domestic factors,” Rakuten’s Soma said.  The yield on the 3.125 percent debt due December 2015 fell
15 basis points this month to 2.84 percent, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The rate, little changed today, reached 2.82
percent on Oct. 28, the lowest level since June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  