-- AIG Profit Rises 17% to $2.17 Billion on Underwriting
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2013-10-31T22:39:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/aig-profit-rises-17-to-2-17-billion-on-underwriting-margins.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) ,
the insurer that repaid a U.S. rescue last year, said third-quarter profit climbed 17 percent as underwriting margins
improved at the property-casualty business.  Net income  rose to $2.17 billion, or $1.46 a share, from
$1.86 billion, or $1.13 a year earlier, New York-based AIG said
today in a statement. Operating profit, which excludes some
investing results, was 96 cents per share, matching the  average
estimate  of 21 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The stock fell in
extended trading as premium revenue declined at the property-casualty division.  “Our outlook for operating trends in the company’s core
insurance businesses is mixed,”  Jimmy Bhullar , an analyst at
JPMorgan Chase & Co., wrote in a research note before results
were announced. “We forecast P&C margins to expand, but at a
slower rate.”  AIG, led by Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche , is
benefiting from rising stock markets and higher bond yields than
a year ago. The company ended the $182.3 billion U.S. rescue in
December, in part by repurchasing shares. Benmosche, 69, is
working to improve margins at the property-casualty unit and
expand sales to consumers.  Premium revenue at the property-casualty division fell 3.7
percent to $8.43 billion. At the segment that sells coverage to
individuals, the figure slipped 5.8 percent to $3.27 billion.  The shares declined 3.4 percent to $49.90 at 5:55 p.m. in
New York, after results were announced. Benmosche’s company had
 rallied  46 percent this year through today’s close, beating the
23 percent advance of the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Underwriting Loss  While margins improved, AIG still recorded an underwriting
loss of $135 million at the property-casualty division, compared
with a loss of $441 million a year earlier. The insurer spent
$1.02 on claims and expenses for every premium dollar in the
period, compared with costs of $1.05 a year earlier.  AIG said in the filing that the International Lease Finance
Corp. unit took an impairment charge of about $1.1 billion on
its aircraft as higher fuel prices and the success of some
competing plane models reduced their value. The impairment had
no effect on the insurer’s results because the company booked a
loss on plans to sell the unit that was recognized last year,
AIG said in the filing.  A group of investors has missed several deadlines to
purchase ILFC, after striking a deal last year to pay $4.2
billion for 80 percent of the unit. AIG had previously said it
expected the deal to be completed in the second quarter.  Legal Costs  AIG said it added $260 million to reserves for legal costs
tied to the financial crisis. The insurer also disclosed a probe
by  New York  regulators about whether units it sold to MetLife
Inc. previously operated in the state without a license.  The U.S. life insurance division, run by CEO Jay Wintrob,
recorded operating profit of $1.14 billion, up 38 percent from a
year earlier, fueled by higher deposits and climbing markets.
AIG said higher sales of annuities and mutual funds contributed
to an increase in premiums and deposits to $8.42 billion from
$4.79 billion a year earlier.  Book value, a measure of assets minus liabilities, rose to
$67.10 per share on Sept. 30 from $66.02 three months earlier.
Net unrealized gains on bonds available for sale narrowed to
$10.8 billion on Sept. 30 from $12.5 billion three months
earlier, according to the company’s quarterly report. The
figures reflect market fluctuations that aren’t counted toward
earnings, and are monitored by investors and ratings firms as a
gauge of financial strength.  Investment Portfolio  AIG’s $358.3 billion investment portfolio included $282.8
billion of bonds as of Sept. 3. Most of the securities are
classified as available for sale.  Monika Machon was named treasurer, replacing Brian Schreiber, as part of a revamp of investment oversight, AIG said
in a separate statement. Schreiber will be deputy chief
investment officer, and Geoffrey Cornell was given the same
title. Both report to William Dooley, executive vice president
for investments. Machon was previously chief investment officer.  At the United Guaranty mortgage insurer, profit rose to $43
million from $3 million a year earlier. The unit led by Donna DeMaio wrote coverage on $14.4 billion of loans in the period.
Mortgage guarantors are benefiting as the U.S. real estate
market recovers from the financial crisis and the federal
government scales back from insuring home loans.  The  U.S. Treasury  owned as much as 92 percent of AIG after
the insurer’s bailout, and was still the biggest holder when the
company reported results a year ago. AIG repurchased shares from
the U.S. to help end the rescue.  AIG finished divesting Asian life insurer AIA Group Ltd.
last year. Hong Kong-based AIA’s market appreciation added $527
million to profit in last year’s third quarter. A Federal
Reserve vehicle tied to the rescue contributed $330 million in
that period as it was wound down.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  