-- Taiwan Five-Year Bonds Rise This Month on Fed Tapering Delay
-- B y   J u s t i n a   L e e
-- 2013-10-31T02:17:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/taiwan-five-year-bonds-rise-this-month-on-fed-tapering-delay.html
Taiwan’s five-year bond yield
dropped the most in six months in October as the  Federal Reserve 
maintained its record stimulus that has buoyed emerging-market
assets.  The Fed refrained from tapering its $85 billion of monthly
bond purchases after a two-day meeting that ended yesterday,
saying it needed to see more evidence the  U.S. economy  will
continue to improve. A 16-day partial government shutdown
weighed on the world’s largest economy this month and delayed
economic data releases. The rate on Taiwan’s benchmark five-year
sovereign debt climbed five basis points in September on
speculation the Fed would cut asset purchases and the island’s
central bank would tighten monetary policy.  “There still isn’t a timetable for tapering, which led to
a downward correction in bond yields in October,” said Sam
Chang, a Taipei-based fixed-income trader at Hua Nan Securities
Co. “ Taiwan ’s bonds were also oversold in September.”  The yield on the 1.25 percent government notes due October
2018 fell seven basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, this
month to 1.097 percent as of 9:53 a.m. in Taipei, according to
Gretai Securities Market. That’s the biggest drop for benchmark
five-year securities since April. The rate increased two basis
points today.  “The Fed said yesterday that the U.S. economy is growing
steadily, which is the kind of wording that suggests tapering,
so the  bond market  is more cautious now,” Chang said.  Currency Market  Taiwan’s economy expanded 1.6 percent from a year earlier
in the third quarter, official data showed today, compared with
2.5 percent in the previous period and the 2.6 percent median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.  “Data was disappointing as the economy almost ground to a
halt in 3Q,” said Dariusz Kowalczyk, a Hong Kong-based
strategist at Credit Agricole CIB. The report will weigh on the
 Taiwan dollar , he said.  Taiwan’s dollar strengthened 0.9 percent this month and 0.2
percent today to NT$29.404 against the greenback, prices from
Taipei Forex Inc. show. The currency was trading at NT$29.397
before weakening 0.3 percent in the last 22 minutes of trading
yesterday amid suspected central bank intervention. The monetary
authority has sold the local dollar in the run-up to the close
on most days since March 2012, according to traders who asked
not to be identified.  One-month non-deliverable forwards advanced 0.7 percent
this month to NT$29.344 per dollar, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The contracts declined 0.1 percent today.   One-month implied volatility, a gauge of expected moves in
the  exchange rate  used to price options, dropped 74 basis points
this month and eight basis points today to 3.17 percent.  The  overnight interbank lending rate  was steady this month
and today at 0.388 percent, a weighted average compiled by the
Taiwan Interbank Money Center showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Justina Lee in  Hong Kong  at 
 jlee1489@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  