-- Taiwan Economy Grew Slowest Pace in a Year in Third Quarter
-- B y   C h i n m e i   S u n g
-- 2013-10-31T03:25:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/taiwan-economy-grew-at-slowest-pace-in-a-year-in-third-quarter.html
  Taiwan ’s economy grew at the
slowest pace in a year in the third quarter, as a weak global
recovery reduced demand for the island’s exports, increasing
pressure on the central bank to extend an  interest-rate  pause.  Gross domestic product rose 1.58 percent from a year
earlier, the statistics bureau said in a preliminary report in
Taipei today, after increasing 2.49 percent in the second
quarter. The median estimate of 22 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey was 2.57 percent.  A less-than-projected payroll increase in the U.S. in
September indicates momentum in the world’s largest economy may
be slowing, while China has pared its growth ambitions,
targeting annual expansion of 7 percent this decade. Taiwan
central bank Governor Perng Fai-nan said this week the island’s
expansion isn’t as strong as earlier this year.  “The economic recovery may be losing steam,” Raymond Yeung, a Hong Kong-based economist at Australia & New Zealand
Banking Group Ltd. wrote in a note today. “The short-term
outlook faces strong headwinds,” he said, adding that the
monetary authority may remain accommodative until at least the
second quarter of next year.  The benchmark  Taiex stock index  fell 0.1 percent as of
11:21 a.m. local time. The  Taiwan dollar  gained 0.3 percent to
NT$29.384 against the U.S. currency. It has weakened almost 1
percent this year.  Rates Held  The central bank held the benchmark interest  rate  at 1.875
percent for a ninth straight meeting in September, the longest
period of inaction. Taiwan in August lowered its forecast for
growth this year to 2.31 percent from 2.4 percent.  The economy expanded a seasonally-adjusted 0.09 percent in
the third quarter from the previous quarter, today’s report
showed. Exports contributed 0.65 percentage-point to GDP growth,
down from 2.08 in the second quarter.  HTC Corp. (2498) , Taiwan’s biggest mobile-phone maker, earlier
this month reported its first quarterly loss after giving up
market share to Apple Inc. and Samsung Electronics Co.  President Ma Ying-jeou has sought closer trade and
investment ties with  China , Taiwan’s biggest trading partner, to
aid the island’s economic expansion. An agreement opening
certain services sectors with China is awaiting legislative
approval in Taiwan.  Private consumption increased 1.56 percent in the third
quarter from a year earlier and manufacturing rose 1.66 percent,
today’s report showed. The statistics bureau is scheduled to
report final data on Nov. 29.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chinmei Sung in Taipei at 
 csung4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  