-- Alcatel Cost Cuts Help Combes Show Network Maker Can Survive
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2013-10-31T16:48:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/alcatel-lucent-reports-narrower-than-projected-loss-on-cost-cuts.html
Alcatel-Lucent SA (ALU) ’s  Michel Combes 
prompted a 19 percent jump in his company’s shares, the biggest
increase in five years, by reporting earnings that helped show
the French network-equipment maker can scale down to survive.  Seven months into his reorganization efforts, the chief
executive officer beat analysts’  estimates  for a second straight
quarter, posting a narrower-than-expected 200 million-euro ($274
million) loss for the period through September. Combes will have
to execute on plans to cut jobs and sell assets in the coming
months to further his attempt to turn around the Paris-based
company, which has lost more than $10 billion in seven years.  “The recovery story is gaining traction,” said Sebastien Sztabowicz, an analyst at Kepler Cheuvreux  France . “Alcatel
reported an excellent quarter and the outlook is positive.”  The CEO faces a tough market, with equipment prices under
pressure and European phone companies curbing spending. Finnish
rival  Nokia Solutions and Networks  said this week quarterly
revenue  slid  26 percent.  Ericsson AB (ERICB) , the largest maker of
wireless networks, missed profit-margin estimates on stiffer
competition with Huawei Technologies Co.  To stem losses and conserve cash, Combes, a former  Vodafone
Group Plc (VOD)  executive who came to Alcatel-Lucent in April, has
announced 10,000 job cuts and narrowed research to fewer areas
as he evaluates asset sales. Reductions in administrative and
general expenses helped save 259 million euros so far this year,
putting the company on course to exceed its cost-cutting goal of
as much as 300 million euros by year-end.  Stock Soars  Alcatel-Lucent advanced 46 cents to 2.82 euros, the
steepest increase since Oct. 30, 2008. On that day, predecessor
Ben Verwaayen, less than two months into the job, also reported
a smaller-than-expected loss as he prepared a plan to restore
profit.  The stock has more than doubled since April this year, and
gained 14 percent on July 30 when the company reported second-quarter earnings.  “We expect to see a strong end of the year,” Combes said
on an conference call. “We are extremely committed on cost
reductions and over-delivering on that front.”  Third-quarter  sales  climbed 1.9 percent to 3.67 billion
euros, topping analysts’ estimates. Operating profit excluding
some items was 116 million euros, from a loss of 126 million
euros a year earlier. The improvement in profitability came from
bigger volumes, selling more high-end products, and especially
lower fixed costs, Combes said.  Beyond this quarter, investors will look to assess the
company’s ability to maintain lower costs and higher margins in
the long run, Jefferies Group LLC analysts led by George C. Notter wrote in a note.  Asset Sales  The quest to make Alcatel-Lucent profitable started when it
was created through the 2006 merger of Alcatel SA and Lucent
Technologies. CEO changes, job cuts and restructuring have
failed for almost seven years.  Combes has laid out plans to reduce costs by 1 billion
euros and sell at least another 1 billion euros of assets by
2015, as well as focus on the faster-growing businesses
including ultra-high speed Internet.  The company divested “small assets” in mobile advertising
and application enablement, though more significant disposals
will come in the future, Combes said today.  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) ’s sale of its handset business will hand the
company cash of 3.79 billion euros for the phone division plus
1.65 billion euros for patents, making the Espoo, Finland-based
company a potential buyer of Alcatel-Lucent assets. To catch up
to Ericsson and Huawei, Nokia is considering a tie-up with
Alcatel-Lucent’s wireless-equipment unit, a person familiar with
the plan said last month.  “We have presented a very comprehensive plan, we are
focused on that. Whether consolidation might take place later
on, I don’t know,” Combes said. “We’ll see in the coming years
depending on how the industry evolves, but my focus is to
implement my plan which will make us even stronger, whatever
happens in the industry in the long term.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  