-- Lance Armstrong Arbitrator to Hear $12 Million Bonus Recoup Case
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2013-10-31T17:01:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/lance-armstrong-arbitrator-to-hear-12-million-bonus-recoup-case.html
Lance Armstrong lost an arbitration
ruling in his attempt to keep a promotions company from
recouping $12 million tied to bonuses he received for winning
the Tour de  France .  The arbitration panel said in a 2-1 decision two days ago
it agreed to hear SCA Promotions Inc.’s effort to get back the
money it paid Armstrong and Tailwind Sports Corp. for winning
the race from 2002 to 2004, as well as legal fees and interest
it later paid him. Armstrong’s side had argued that the
arbitrators no longer had jurisdiction because of a previous
settlement.  The panel “does have and will exercise jurisdiction to
determine and make a final award resolving any disputes between
or among Tailwind Sports Corp., Lance Armstrong, and SCA
Promotions Inc.,” the arbitrators said, according to the
document provided to Bloomberg News by SCA.  “There’s still a fight ahead but at least we’re allowed to
get in the ring at this point,” Jeffrey Dorough, an attorney
for SCA, said in a telephone interview.  Tim Herman, an attorney for Armstrong, didn’t immediately
return an e-mail seeking comment on the decision.  Armstrong, who said in January that he used performance-enhancing drugs to win each of his record seven Tour de France
titles from 1999 to 2005, was paid $4.5 million by SCA for the
2002 and 2003 victories. Armstrong sued the company after it
refused to pay him a $5 million bonus for winning in 2004 after
speculation about doping surfaced. The company agreed in 2006 to
pay him the bonus as well as $2.5 million in interest and legal
fees, bringing the total to $12 million.  The panel asked both sides to meet and decide on a date to
continue the arbitration. Those discussions began yesterday,
Dorough said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  