-- Murray Says He’ll Only Play Australian Open If Fit Enough to Win
-- B y   B e n   P r i e c h e n f r i e d
-- 2013-11-01T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/andy-murray-says-he-s-not-certain-of-playing-at-australian-open.html
Wimbledon champion Andy Murray said
he’ll only play in January’s Australian Open if he’s fit enough
to win the Grand Slam tennis tournament.  Murray, 26, has begun rehabilitation work following back
surgery six weeks ago, and said he won’t return to competition
until he’s in perfect condition. The season-opening major takes
place Jan. 13-26 at Melbourne Park, where Murray lost to Novak Djokovic in this year’s final.  “I would be disappointed to miss the Australian Open
because it’s a Grand Slam,” Murray told reporters yesterday in
 London . “If I come back, I want to be in shape to win it.
Whether I make it or not depends on how things go once I get
back on the tennis court.”  Murray’s injury forced him to miss this year’s French Open
and he returned at the All England Club to end Britain’s 77-year
wait for a Wimbledon men’s singles champion. He was then ousted
in the quarterfinals of the U.S. Open, where the Scot was
defending the title.  Murray’s absence means he has slipped to No. 4 in the  men’s
rankings  and he’ll also miss next week’s season-ending ATP World
Tour Finals in London. Stanislas Wawrinka of Switzerland and
 France ’s Richard Gasquet secured the final two berths in the
eight-man event when Milos Raonic was eliminated in the third
round of the Paris Masters yesterday.  Top-ranked Rafael Nadal, defending champion Djokovic, David Ferrer, Juan Martin del Potro, Tomas Berdych and record six-time
winner Roger Federer round out the field.  Murray said he hopes to play at an exhibition tournament in
Barbados at the end of November, though will assess his recovery
over the next month.  “I’m hoping to hit a couple of balls next week, but very
few and very light just to see how it is,” Murray said. “I
have still got quite a way to go until I am 100 percent.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Priechenfried in London at 
 bprie@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  