-- Ariad Shares Sink as Sales of Only Drug Iclusig Suspended
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-10-31T20:08:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/ariad-shares-sink-as-sales-of-only-drug-iclusig-suspended.html
Ariad Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ARIA)  plummeted
44 percent after U.S. regulators forced the company to
temporarily suspend sales of its only drug, Iclusig for patients
with certain forms of leukemia.  Ariad fell to $2.20 at the close of trading in  New York ,
the lowest price since February 2010. The Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based company stopped a study earlier this month
aimed at expanding use of the drug after trials revealed an
increased risk of blood clots.  A recent investigation found about 24 percent of patients
using Iclusig in a mid-stage clinical trial experienced heart
attacks, strokes and other serious vascular events, the  Food and
Drug Administration  said in a  statement  today. It also found 67
percent of patients in clinical trials experienced high  blood
pressure  and 8 percent had heart failure, including fatalities.  “At this time, FDA cannot identify a dose level or
exposure duration that is safe,” the agency said.  Ariad had lost 89 percent of its  market value  this year
before today. The company told analysts on a conference call
today that it will discuss with the FDA changes to the label of
Iclusig and potential risk mitigation strategies that may allow
sales to resume. The drugmaker said it doesn’t know how long the
suspension will take and plans to release financial results next
week.  Iclusig was approved last year for two rare blood cancers
based on an accelerated process that relied on a single trial
showing it helped patients. Companies that gain accelerated
approval must conduct additional study to prove the medicine is
effective; Those further results for Iclusig showed the
increased safety risks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  