-- MasterCard Tops Estimates as Stronger Euro Helps Revenue
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   D e x h e i m e r
-- 2013-10-31T14:59:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/mastercard-tops-estimates-as-stronger-euro-helps-revenue.html
MasterCard Inc. (MA) , the second-biggest
U.S. payments network, reported a third-quarter profit that beat
analysts’ estimates as a stronger euro helped boost revenue.  Net income  rose 14 percent to $879 million, or $7.27 a
share, from $772 million, or $6.17, a year earlier, the
Purchase, New York-based firm said today in a statement. The
average estimate of 31  analysts  surveyed by Bloomberg was $6.94.  Shares of MasterCard, led by Chief Executive Officer Ajay Banga, 53, have outpaced bigger rival  Visa Inc. (V)  this year. Signs
of a pickup in European consumer spending and a strengthening
currency may increase the company’s valuation relative to Visa,
said  Jason Kupferberg , an analyst at Jefferies Group LLC.  If Europe continues to recover from its sovereign-debt
crisis, “that could cause a shift in sentiment to more
favoritism potentially for MasterCard over Visa,” Kupferberg
said in a phone interview before results were announced.
“Whenever you see the euro strengthening against the dollar,
that helps MasterCard’s top line for sure.”  MasterCard rose 0.3 percent to $728.15 at 10:43 a.m. in New
York, while Visa slid 4.5 percent to $194.69, the most intraday
since July 31. MasterCard has gained 48 percent this year,
outpacing Visa’s 28 percent advance and the 17 percent increase
for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Information Technology Index.  ‘Nice Tailwind’  Spending on credit and debit cards in Europe rose 14
percent to $218 billion from a year earlier, according to the
statement. In the U.S., purchases increased 9.2 percent to $267
billion. Cross-border volume, a measure of spending by consumers
traveling abroad, increased 19 percent, MasterCard said.  “Given the kind of economic environment that we’re in, in
the United States but also in the rest of the world, these are
some pretty nice results,” Chief Financial Officer Martina Hund-Mejean said in a phone interview.  Net revenue rose 16 percent to $2.2 billion as worldwide
purchases increased 14 percent to $763 billion from a year
earlier, according to the statement. Operating expenses climbed
14 percent to $970 million.  Investors previously viewed Europe as “more of a liability
than an asset” for MasterCard, Kupferberg said. Europe
accounted for 28 percent of MasterCard purchases in the three
months through June 30, company data show. Visa generates about
2 percent of its  revenue  on the Continent as domestic
transactions are handled by Visa Europe Ltd., a separate firm
owned by banks that pays royalties to its U.S.-based namesake.  ‘Great Position’  The euro advanced 4 percent against the greenback in the
three months ended Sept. 30. MasterCard’s gross dollar volume,
which includes card purchases and cash transactions at automated
teller machines, climbed 15 percent in Europe in the first nine
months of 2013 from a year earlier, according to the statement.  “MasterCard is in a great position in Europe because we’re
very strong in the North in the strong economies and we’re also
extremely strong over in the Eastern bloc,” Ann Cairns,
president of international markets, said last month at an
investor conference.  “And we’re lesser exposed in the Southern
economies that are still having difficulties.”  Visa said yesterday that fiscal fourth-quarter profit
climbed 15 percent on an adjusted basis to $1.19 billion from a
year earlier, when results were aided by a $627 million tax
adjustment. The Foster City, California-based company said net
operating revenue rose 8.9 percent to $2.97 billion, missing the
$3.02 billion average estimate of analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  American Express (AXP) , the biggest credit-card issuer by
purchases, said Oct. 16 third-quarter net income rose 9.3
percent to $1.37 billion on higher spending worldwide.  Discover
Financial Services (DFS) , the No. 4 network, said last week that
profit fell 6.9 percent as the firm boosted the amount of money
set aside to cover future loan losses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Dexheimer in New York at 
 edexheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Eichenbaum at 
 peichenbaum@bloomberg.net  