-- Ataturk Centennial Work Chases $100 Billion in Financing
-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y
-- 2013-10-31T15:56:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/ataturk-centennial-chases-100-billion-in-funding-turkey-credit.html
Turkey  is planning $100 billion of
infrastructure projects over the next five years, with 70
percent of the spending dependent on financing by domestic
banks, according to the nation’s largest lender.  About $60 billion of projects will be in energy, including
at least two nuclear-power plants, according to Levent Kirazoglu, manager of project and acquisition finance at  Turkiye
Garanti Bankasi AS (GARAN) , the biggest bank by market value. The
balance involves hospitals, airports and roads funded through
public-private partnerships, he said.  Turkey, with a  gross domestic product  of $800 billion, is
seeking to become one of the largest 10 economies globally by
2023, the 100-year anniversary of the founding of the Turkish
Republic by its first President Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. The
investment plans come amid a seven-fold jump in syndicated
lending by domestic banks this year, compared with a 12 percent
increase for the whole of the  Middle East  and North Africa,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Turkish banks will finance a significant part of those
finance needs,” Kirazoglu said at an Istanbul presentation on
Oct. 21. Local lenders offering more funding than foreign peers
“are favored by project sponsors,” he said.  Turkey has begun public-private programs including a $13
billion airport for Istanbul, two highway projects with
suspension bridges costing $10 billion and 16 hospital compounds
requiring total investment of $7.8 billion.  Airport Contract  The airport concession was awarded to a group led by
Ankara-based builder Limak Holding AS. Russia’s Rosatom Corp.
and ZAO Atomstroyexport are building the first nuclear power
plant on Mediterranean coast near Mersin, while  Mitsubishi Heavy
Industries Ltd. (7011)  and  Areva SA (AREVA)  will construct a second plant at
the Black Sea town of Sinop, each costing $22 billion.  “The major source of funding for the banks will be
repayments from the existing portfolio of project and
acquisition loans that are about $60 to $65 billion,” Kirazoglu
said. “We also expect some international banks to provide
finance for hospital and airport public-private partnership
projects.”  Builders of Istanbul’s third suspension bridge and
connecting roads under the $3 billion project may sell bonds or
shares once they generate revenue to refinance a $2.3 billion
loan, the biggest for an infrastructure project in Turkey,
Ibrahim Cecen, chairman of IC Holding, said Sept. 4.  Istanbul Bridge  Obtaining funding after the construction phase through
initial public offerings or bond sales could be a “viable
option” for the projects, Kirazoglu said. “This is especially
so for hospitals and other infrastructure projects as their
secure income model is known in advance.”  Garanti Bankasi and its Dutch unit were among seven banks
that signed a nine-year facility with Ankara-based IC Ictas
Insaat Sanayi & Ticaret AS, a unit of IC Holding, and  Astaldi
SpA (AST)  for the bridge project on Aug. 29.  Many European lenders reduced their participation in the
Turkish project finance market since the global financial crisis
in 2008 led to their risk limits being cut amid a lack of
available capital, Kirazoglu said.  Garanti took part in funding a $900 million loan toward the
acquisition of Baskent Gaz Dagitim AS, the capital’s gas grid,
by Istanbul-based Torunlar Enerji from the government in June.
It also participated in a $1.4 billion loan from eight Turkish
lenders for the first phase of a $7 billion highway between
Istanbul and Izmir.  Airport Finance  Lira-based  project financing  may increase to replace
dollars or euros as main currencies, Kirazoglu said. “The
spread between the costs of lira and foreign-currency loans
getting narrower gives the banks room to provide longer-term
loans.” The Turkish currency has strengthened 1.3 percent this
month to 1.9926 per dollar as of 5:19 p.m. in Istanbul.  Loans on Turkish projects, excluding hospitals, have an
average maturity of 12 or 13 years, compared with an average of
22 years in the U.K., Andy Carty, head of senior management at
U.K. Infrastructure, said in a presentation in Istanbul last
month.  Limak Holding AS, joined by Turkish builders Cengiz Insaat,
Mapa Insaat, Kalyon Insaat and Kolin Insaat, won the contract to
build Istanbul’s third airport, which will start operating in
2019. It has the concession for 25 years, Limak Chairman Nihat Ozdemir said Sept. 20.  Export Credit  By May, the group will “hopefully” complete the
financing, which may comprise commercial loans, export credit
agency-backed financing and loans from international
infrastructure lenders such as the World Bank’s International
Finance Corp., Ozdemir said.  “Financing the airport will need serious effort as we are
talking about 7 billion euros needed for the first two phases,”
Kirazoglu said. The airport’s first phase will serve 60 million
passengers, with capacity rising to as many as 150 million
later.  Sumitomo Mitsui  Banking Corp may take part in an export
credit agency portion of the airport-finance package should the
sponsors decide on ECA financing, Laughlan Waterston, deputy
head of Infrastructure, Transport and  Islamic Finance  at SMBC in
 London , said in e-mailed comments Oct. 22.  Sumitomo Mitsui was a lead arranger in a $1.2 billion
facility for a road tunnel to be built by a Turkish-South Korean
group of companies under the Bosporus in Istanbul, he said.  “The project and acquisition finance market in Turkey will
have a record this year,” Kirazoglu said, predicting a jump to
as much as $21 billion from an average of $15 billion to $16
billion in recent years. “We expect it to rise to a band
between $20 billion and $25 billion in the next five years.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  