-- Aussie Pares Biggest Weekly Drop Since August After China PMI
-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 2013-11-01T05:54:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/aussie-set-for-biggest-weekly-drop-since-august-before-china-pmi.html
Australia ’s dollar pared declines
that have it on course for the biggest weekly loss since August
after a Chinese report showed manufacturing strengthened last
month at a quicker pace than economists had forecast.  The currency was also supported after data in Australia and
South Korea indicated expanding factory output, adding to signs
of stabilization of growth in the region. New Zealand’s currency
was poised for its first back-to-back weekly losses after the
nation’s central bank said yesterday that currency strength will
give policy makers flexibility on the timing and size of any
rate increases.  “The Chinese data today does help to alleviate concern
around rising money-market rates and, along with better
Australian and Korean PMI numbers, should give the Australian
dollar support,” said Greg Gibbs, a senior currency strategist
at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in  Singapore . “There’s
every chance that the Aussie does find its feet and firms
again.”  The Australian currency rose 0.2 percent to 94.78 U.S.
cents as of 4:50 p.m. in Sydney, still set for a 1.1 percent
weekly drop, the most since the five days ended Aug. 30. It fell
0.2 percent to 92.80 yen and has weakened 0.6 percent since Oct.
25. The kiwi was at 82.60 U.S. cents from 82.63 yesterday,
poised for a 0.3 percent weekly decline. It slid 0.5 percent to
80.88 yen.  The official manufacturing  Purchasing Managers’ Index (CPMINDX)  for
China climbed to an 18-month high of 51.4 in October, compared
with 51.1 in September, the National Bureau of Statistics and
 China  Federation of Logistics and Purchasing said today. The
reading compares with the median estimate of 51.2 in a Bloomberg
News survey, with a number above 50 indicating growth.  Fed Speakers  A manufacturing index in Australia climbed to 53.2 last
month, the highest since 2010, the Australian Industry Group
said in a report today. Measures of production, employment,
exports and new orders increased while those for inventories,
deliveries and average wages declined.  South Korea’s manufacturing PMI rose to 50.2 in October
from 49.7, according to a report from HSBC and Markit Economics.  Residential property prices in Australia’s eight capital
cities rose 1.3 percent in October, the RP Data-Rismark Hedonic
Home Value Index released today showed. Over 12 months, the
index grew at the fastest pace in three years according to the
report.  The Aussie rose 1.5 percent in October following a 4.7
percent appreciation in September, while the kiwi slipped 0.5
percent last month after a 7.4 percent gain in September.  Taper Timing  Advances in both currencies were capped as traders
speculated on the timing for tapering of Federal Reserve
stimulus before speeches today by St. Louis Fed President James Bullard and his counterparts Narayana Kocherlakota and Jeffrey
Lacker.  “Comments from Fed speakers today will carry a lot of
weight for the U.S. dollar and how it trades in the short
term,” said Stan Shamu, a market strategist at IG Ltd. in
 Melbourne . “The unwind of U.S. dollar shorts might impact risk
trades,” with expectations of a trimming of stimulus this year
rising slightly, he said.  Australia’s three-year yields rose four basis points, or
0.04 percentage point, to 3.05 percent, while the 10-year rate
gained four basis points to 4.06 percent. New Zealand’s two-year
swap rate, which is sensitive to benchmark rate expectations,
fell two basis points to 3.42 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  