-- Australian Mining Magnate Palmer Wins Recount for Seat
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2013-10-31T07:07:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/australian-mining-magnate-palmer-wins-recount-for-seat.html
Mining magnate  Clive Palmer  will
become an Australian lawmaker, adding to three Senate seats his
Palmer United Party may claim in the wake of the Sept. 7
election.  Palmer, 59, won the lower house district of Fairfax in
Queensland state by a final margin of 53 votes, the Australian
 Electoral Commission  said in an e-mailed statement today. The
initial count showed he won by just seven votes, triggering the
automatic recount of more than 89,000 ballots.  While Palmer, who owns a nickel refinery and plans an $8
billion gas project, said during the campaign that he was
seeking to become prime minister of the world’s 12th-largest
economy, the election results will give him political clout.
Prime Minister  Tony Abbott ’s Liberal-National coalition will
need to bargain with Palmer’s party to pass laws in the upper
house when the new Senate convenes from July 1.  “Palmer’s politics don’t seem a world away from the
coalition’s and Abbott will be heartened that Palmer is
obviously used to brokering deals through his experiences in the
business world,” said Haydon Manning, a politics professor at
Flinders University in Adelaide. “While he’ll have no real
power in the lower house, winning his seat and being on the
ground in Canberra will make it easier for him to direct his
troops in the upper house.”  New Chamber  Should the current Senate, in which the Greens and Labor
can band together to block legislation, oppose the government’s
bills, Abbott will require the support of at least six Senators
in the new chamber to make good on his election promises. They
include repealing the previous Labor government’s carbon price
mechanism and mining tax, and introducing a maternity-leave plan
that will cost A$5.5 billion ($5.2 billion) a year.  Palmer, the owner of mining company Mineralogy Pty Ltd. who
made his fortune in real estate and by investing in mining
tenements that later proved lucrative, is building a full-scale
replica of the Titanic in  China . His election policies included
abolishing the carbon price mechanism and mining tax instigated
and creating incentives for more onshore processing of the
nation’s resources.  Earlier this month, Palmer formed an alliance with Ricky
Muir of the Australian Motoring Enthusiast Party to create a
voting bloc in the Senate.  The final make-up of the upper house is unclear, with the
AEC recounting votes in  Western Australia , a state hosting one
of the Palmer United Party’s three would-be Senators. The
recount has been complicated by the AEC saying today that 1,375
votes verified during the initial count couldn’t be located.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  