-- Australians Ride Housing With Pensions Not So Super
-- B y   N a r a y a n a n   S o m a s u n d a r a m
-- 2013-11-01T04:34:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/australians-ride-housing-with-pensions-not-so-super.html
Howard Kindler, 57, dipped into his
pension to turn property investor, spending a third of his
retirement savings and taking out a mortgage to buy a  Melbourne 
apartment.  Disappointed with the returns of his retirement fund,
Kindler is one of the million Australians who go it alone and
manage their own pensions, known as self-managed superannuation
funds or SMSFs that together hold A$500 billion ($474 billion)
in assets. Many are increasingly banking on surging  home prices 
to provide a comfortable retirement, and like Kindler, are
leveraging their investment, expecting higher returns.  “I am seven to 10 years away from retirement, and ever
since the global financial crisis superannuation hasn’t seen
much growth,” said Kindler, a human resources manager at a
school in Melbourne,  Australia ’s second-largest city, who paid
A$530,000 for the apartment. “I decided to take up management
of my own retirement savings and diversify within that. Part of
that strategy, of course, was to look at buying a property.”  The growing number of individuals using their pensions for
all-or-nothing bets on home-price appreciation and rising rents
-- increasingly encouraged by property developers and
consultants -- has helped spur the nation’s home prices to a
record and caught the attention of regulators.  House prices  will
gain 11 percent in 2014 after rising 3.2 percent so far this
year, according to Sydney-based SQM Research Pty.  Spruiking Property  The Australian Securities & Investment Commission, which
regulates the financial advice that SMSFs receive, is concerned
about aggressive marketing of property to the funds.  “We have seen examples of advertising that are going down
the lines of spruiking of property to SMSFs,” Greg Tanzer, the
ASIC commissioner, said Sept. 18, using an Australian term for
noisy promoters, in this case those touting properties to self-managed pension funds. “Our message to spruikers is very clear,
we do not want SMSFs to become the target. Superannuation is a
long-term investment.”  Investment by SMSFs in residential property has risen 65
percent since mid-2008 and 10 percent in the past 12 months to
A$17.5 billion in June, according to data from the Australian
Taxation Office, which oversees regulation of the small funds.
The ATO’s June 2013 data is extrapolated from the funds’ tax
return filings for the year through June 2012.  The rise of SMSFs, which managed a combined A$506 billion
as at June 30, could exacerbate the property-price cycle, the
 Reserve Bank  of Australia said in September.  Seeking Yield  “There are tentative signs that SMSFs are moving some of
their assets out of cash and into higher-yielding assets,” the
central bank said in its  semi-annual financial stability review 
Sept. 25.  House prices rose to an all-time high in September after
the RBA cut its benchmark  interest rate  by 2.25 percentage
points over two years to a record low 2.5 percent, pushing
mortgage rates to their lowest since 2009. The country’s average
standard variable home-loan rate  offered  by banks was 5.95
percent in September compared with 7.8 percent two years
earlier, RBA data show.  Firstmac Ltd., a non-bank lender with about A$5 billion of
mortgages, from Oct. 14 began offering through its online brand 
loans.com.au home loans to SMSFs at a variable interest rate of 
4.99 percent, Michael Corkill, a spokesman for the Brisbane-based 
company said. That rate undercuts the 6.4 percent offered by 
 Commonwealth Bank of Australia  and 5.98 percent rate by  Westpac
Banking Corp. (WBC) , the country’s largest mortgage lenders.  Australian Wealth  Property has always been an  integral  part of Australians’
wealth. Non-financial assets, largely real estate, made up 58.5
percent of household wealth in Australia in mid-2013 compared
with a global average of 45 percent, according to a Credit
Suisse Group AG global wealth report released Oct. 9.  “Among those interested in establishing an SMSF, a third
of them want to gain exposure to property,” said Recep Peker, a
senior analyst at Sydney-based research firm Investment Trends
Pty, which surveyed 1,927 SMSF trustees in April.  BPM Corp., a Melbourne-based property developer, has sold
to SMSFs 20 of 69 apartments in a new development under
construction in Essendon, a suburb 9 kilometers (5.6 miles)
northwest of the city’s center, the company said in an e-mailed
statement.  SMSFs are unique among pensions in developed nations in
that they choose their investments, are responsible for custody
of the assets and for keeping records. They can invest in assets
including stocks, bonds, cash deposits, property, artwork and
even wine. They can’t live in any property they purchase nor can
they rent the house to a relative.  Individual Pensions  The individual pension funds are now the largest group of
the retirement savings system and are projected to grow to A$2.2
trillion by 2033, according to a report Sept. 23 by the
Australian arm of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Ltd.  Changes to pension legislation in September 2007 allowed
funds to borrow to buy certain assets, including property, using
limited recourse loans. The loans give the lender the right to
recover any losses only from the collateral in the event of
default. The vast majority of Australian mortgages are full-recourse loans, which give lenders the right to recover losses
from the house and other assets or income of the defaulter.  In the four years to June 30, 2011, Australia’s large
pension funds produced an average annual negative return of 0.7
percent, according to the tax office. SMSFs returned a positive
0.65 percent after fees and expenses over the same period. Data
for SMSFs for the two subsequent years hasn’t been released.  Rental Yield  Kindler, who set up his SMSF in September 2012 and bought
the apartment in May with a mortgage from CBA, has rented it out
for A$2,000 a month giving him a rental yield of 4.5 percent
before expenses.  Gross rental yields in Melbourne rose to 4.37 percent in
September from 4.31 percent a year earlier while yields in
Sydney dropped to 4.58 percent from 4.65 percent in the same
period, according to researcher Australian Property Monitors.  “I am not too concerned about a price fall on this
property because I think I did thorough due diligence,” he
said.  Property doesn’t fall into the “safe asset class”
category for pensions funds, as investors need liquidity and
diversified assets when they enter retirement, said Melbourne-based Robin Bowerman, principal for market strategy at Vanguard
Investments Australia Ltd.  Liquidity Needs  “You can’t sell a bathroom or a part of a property when
you need to buy a new car. Liquidity is something such people
don’t think about enough,” he said.  It isn’t just SMSFs that have taken an interest in
Australia’s residential property market. Home loans approved for
all investors now account for around 40 percent of the total in
New South Wales state, where Sydney, the country’s most populous
city, is located, according to the central bank.  Australian home-loan approvals to investors  climbed  to
A$27.8 billion in the three months to June, the highest since
March 2008 when the  Australian Prudential Regulation Authority 
started compiling the data. The big four banks have an 85
percent share of mortgages, according to data compiled by APRA.  Outstanding mortgages in the country climbed 4.8 percent in
the year to September, the fastest pace since August 2012, as
buyers tap the lowest  mortgage rates  in four years, according to
RBA data.  APRA categorizes mortgages to SMSFs as “non standard”
eligible mortgages, which means banks in some instances need to
set aside almost double the capital they would have otherwise
allocated for a traditional mortgage.  “Given that APRA has mandated that banks need to use
higher risk weights on their lending to SMSFs, they have less
incentive to chase share,” said John Buonaccorsi, a Sydney-based analyst at CIMB Group Holding Bhd. “The most likely
source of lending for SMSFs are the smaller lenders who can’t
compete in normal mortgages.”  ‘Love Affair’  Australia’s so-called four-pillar policy prevents the
largest four lenders --  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group
Ltd. (ANZ) , Commonwealth Bank,  National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB)  and
Westpac -- from buying each other.  ANZ hasn’t seen a “marked increase” in SMSF home-loan
applications, Stephen Ries, a Melbourne-based spokesman said.
Sydney-based Westpac, the second-largest mortgage lender,
declined to comment, citing the quiet period ahead of its annual
results on Nov. 4.  While there is “strong growth” in SMSF property
investment, it’s coming off a low base, David Gall, executive
general manager for banking and wealth at Melbourne-based NAB,
the country’s largest lender, said in an e-mailed statement.  SMSFs are buying property as Sydney home prices are set to
rise as much as 12 percent this year and as much as 20 percent
in 2014, SQM Research forecast. An increase in residential real
estate investments by the funds raises concerns about consumer
protection as they may be exposed to greater financial risks
than they had expected, the central bank said in September.  “Australians have a love affair with property,”
Vanguard’s Bowerman said. “They have to ask some hard questions
when they are borrowing to buy a large illiquid asset for their
retirement. What happens when the rental income doesn’t come? As
the  U.S. (SPCS20)  demonstrated, property prices when they fall, can go
down spectacularly.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Narayanan Somasundaram in Sydney at 
 nsomasundara@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  