-- Avon Falls on Third-Quarter Loss, SEC Bribe Fine Dispute
-- B y   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d   a n d   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 2013-10-31T20:29:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/avon-says-sec-proposed-significantly-greater-fine.html
Avon Products Inc. (AVP)  fell the most in
14 years after posting a third-quarter net loss and saying
possible fines related to foreign bribery probes may materially
hurt earnings.  The Securities and Exchange Commission offered a settlement
last month with monetary penalties that were “significantly
greater” than the $12 million the company had offered, Avon
said in a filing today. Should the Justice Department offer
similar terms, earnings, cash flow and ongoing business would be
“materially adversely impacted,” the company said.  “Monetary penalties at the level proposed by the SEC staff
are not warranted,” New York-based Avon said, without giving
details of the SEC’s offer.  Avon, the world’s largest door-to-door cosmetics seller,
and the government have investigated whether former employees in
China and other countries bribed officials in violation of the
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. In regulatory filings in 2011,
Avon disclosed the firing of four executives suspected of paying
bribes in China.  The probes have dogged Chief Executive Officer Sheri McCoy,
who took over in April 2012, as she works to trim Avon’s costs
and exit unprofitable markets abroad.  Stock Tumble  The stock fell 22 percent to $17.50 at the close in New
York, the biggest drop since September 1999. The shares have
gained 22 percent this year, compared with a 23 percent increase
for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  “The third quarter was tough,” McCoy said in the
statement. “Our quarterly performance was negatively impacted
by macroeconomic headwinds and continued weakness in some parts
of our business, particularly North America.”  The net loss in the quarter ended Sept. 30 was $5.5
million, or 1 cent a share, compared with net income of $31.6
million, or 7 cents, a year earlier, Avon said. Excluding some
items, profit was 14 cents a share. The average of 12 analysts’
 forecasts  compiled by Bloomberg was 19 cents.  Revenue fell 7.5 percent to $2.32 billion, trailing
analysts’ $2.44 billion average estimate. North American sales
slid 19 percent to $328.6 million as the number of active sales
representatives slid.  ‘More Disruptive’  “Sales growth is the most important metric, and it did not
improve, despite considerable reinvestment,” Mark Astrachan, an
analyst at Stifel Financial Corp. in New York, wrote in a note
today. He said he’s placing his recommendation to buy the shares
under review. Astrachan called the SEC news “concerning” as
cash flow declined during the quarter.  On today’s earnings call, McCoy, who’s announced exits from
underperforming markets such as Ireland, said the U.S. “is an
important part of our portfolio” and can counter volatility in
 emerging markets .  A 2011 change in the U.S. to a new sales model that
involved reorganizing representatives and supervisors as well as
redistricting was “much more disruptive to the business than
anticipated,” McCoy said, adding that future shifts would be
more gradual.  The new model hasn’t worked, and exiting the U.S. would
benefit Avon shareholders, said Ali Dibadj, an analyst at
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in New York.  Diehard Customers  “If you can sell it, sell it,” Dibadj said today in a
telephone interview. Barring a sale, Avon should change its U.S.
model, either by moving into retail sales or by focusing on
“diehard” customer groups such as Hispanics, Dibadj said. He
 rates  the shares market perform, the equivalent of a hold.  “We’ve been clear that we are committed to the U.S. -- to
stemming the decline and returning that business to
profitability,” Jennifer Vargas, an Avon spokeswoman, said
today in an e-mail.  Separately, Estee Lauder Cos., maker of Clinique skincare
and Bobbi Brown make-up, today raised the low end of its annual
adjusted profit  forecast  by 6 cents, to a range of $2.80 to
$2.87 a share. The average estimate of 17 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg is $2.90  The New York-based company, which sells higher-end products
than Avon, said it expects to grow at twice the rate of rest of
the prestige beauty sector. Adjusted earnings per share of 76
cents beat the 73-cent average estimate of 17 analysts compiled
by Bloomberg.  Estee Lauder dropped 0.6 percent to $70.96 at the close in
New York, for a 19 percent gain this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net ;
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Orland at 
 korland@bloomberg.net  