-- Lawmakers Want to Stop Fee-for-Service Medicare Payments
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2013-10-31T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/lawmakers-want-to-stop-fee-for-service-medicare-payments.html
The chairmen of the U.S. House Ways
and Means and the Senate Finance committees want to phase out
the way Medicare pays doctors for their services.  They’re proposing a gradual change to a new system along
with a pay freeze and incentives to give up fee-for-service
billing.  “Enough with the quick fixes. Our proposal is for a new
physician payment system that rewards value over volume,”
Senator Max Baucus of  Montana  said in a statement. “It will go
a long way in improving the efficiency and quality of care for
America’s seniors.”  The proposal by Democrat Baucus and his Republican
counterpart, Representative Dave Camp of  Michigan , would freeze
physician payment rates for 10 years and give doctors bonuses
for agreeing to accept certain percentages of Medicare revenue
through the alternative payment methods.  Doctors would be encouraged to use shared-savings programs
and to bundle medical services through a single team, Bloomberg
BNA reported.  Doctors would get a 5 percent bonus each year from 2016
through 2021 if “a significant share of their revenues” comes
from these alternatives, according to a discussion draft
distributed by the committees.  After 2023, doctors who opt for alternative payment systems
would get a 2 percent increase in reimbursement each year,
according to the draft. Doctors who opt to continue to be paid
according to Medicare’s fee-for-service system would get a 1
percent annual increase in reimbursement.  Seeking Value  “It’s looking for better value, less emphasis on volume,
more emphasis on quality, which is good,” Senator Jay Rockefeller, a West Virginia Democrat, said after a Senate
briefing on the Baucus-Camp plan.  The chairmen have asked medical groups to provide their
comments on the proposal by Nov. 12, according to the Bloomberg
BNA report.  Coming after partisan disagreements so great that the U.S.
government was partially shut down earlier this month, the
cross-party cooperation by the two chairmen increases the
prospects of the plan’s success.  Their goal is to replace the Sustainable Growth Rate (SGR),
a formula enacted as part of the Balanced Budget Act of 1997 to
curb the growth in health-care costs.  That formula has led Congress to vote each year since 2003
-- and sometimes more than annually -- on a “doc fix” that has
prevented decreases in Medicare’s physician reimbursements,
which would discourage doctors from participation. Medicare is
the government’s health-care program for people 65 and older and
for people under 65 with certain disabilities.  No Freeze  Earlier this year, a different House committee put together
its own proposal for breaking the “doc fix” cycle. Instead of
freezing payments, that legislation, H.R. 2810, would allow
annual increases of 0.5 percent over five years, according to
the Bloomberg BNA report.  The Congressional Budget Office estimated in February that
it would cost $138 billion in the next 10 years to keep
reimbursement rates at the current level. Lower health-care
costs have reduced the agency’s 10-year estimate, which was $245
billion last year -- one reason that permanently fixing the
formula has become more popular.  Under the SGR, Medicare’s reimbursements for medical care
are scheduled to be reduced by  more than 24 percent  on Jan. 1,
2014, according to the Department of Health and Human Services.  There were 215,919 primary-care physicians in the U.S.
treating Medicare fee-for-service patients in 2012, according to
the  Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services , which is part of
HHS. The average primary-care physician got about 25 percent of
his or her revenue from Medicare patients in 2012, according to
the American Academy of Family Physicians.  Camp and Baucus aren’t including in their proposal any
additional mechanism to offset additional government costs,
lawmakers said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  