-- Lazard Capital Markets CEO Leaves After Strategy Review
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2013-10-31T14:52:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/lazard-capital-markets-ceo-leaves-after-strategy-review.html
Lazard  Capital Markets  LLC, the
closely held brokerage controlled by current and former Lazard
Ltd. employees, said Chief Executive Officer William Buchanan
resigned after the firm completed its strategic review.  Scott McLaughlin and William Rosenberg will become co-CEOs,
said Scott Sunshine, a spokesman for New York-based Lazard
Capital. McLaughlin will continue as head of equities, and
Rosenberg will keep his chief financial officer and chief
operating officer positions, Sunshine said.  Lazard Capital said in May it was exploring strategic
alternatives including a sale, a joint venture or an injection
of capital from a partner. The firm cut the size of its equities
sales, trading and research division and outsourced clearing and
settlements, Sunshine said in an interview.  FBR & Co. (FBRC)  said this month it added 29 employees from Lazard
Capital in a negotiated transaction, including research
analysts, sales traders, position traders and institutional
salespeople.  Buchanan ran  equity capital markets  and was a member of the
executive committee at Cowen Group Inc. before joining Lazard
Ltd. in 2006 to help advise companies on how to raise money by
selling stock in the public and private markets.  McLaughlin joined Lazard Capital in 2007, according to his
profile on  LinkedIn Corp. (LNKD) ’s website. He previously ran equities
at  WR Hambrecht + Co.  and worked in equity sales at Citigroup
Inc., according to his profile. Rosenberg started at Lazard
Capital in 2005, according to his LinkedIn profile.  Fewer Firms  Smaller brokers are combining or closing as bigger banks
tighten their grip on trading. Gleacher & Co. said in April it
was closing its fixed-income unit and Knight Capital Group Inc.
agreed to sell its debt brokerage to Stifel Financial Corp. CRT
Capital Group LLC and Pierpont Securities LLC ended talks to
combine after failing to reach an agreement, two people with
knowledge of the matter said yesterday.  Firms registered with the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority  dropped  14 percent to 4,207 in September from 2008,
according to the regulator’s website.  Lazard Capital was spun out of  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ) , the biggest
independent merger-advisory firm, in 2005. The company had more
than $1 billion in assets and about $73 million of equity at the
end of 2012, according to regulatory filings. At the time Lazard
Capital announced the review, it had about 200 employees.  Lazard Capital provides research, sales and trading, along
with underwriting for equities, fixed-income and convertible
securities, according to its website. Hamilton, Bermuda-based
Lazard Ltd. has a separate capital-markets advisory business.  When Lazard Freres & Co. became publicly traded in 2005,
the asset-management and advisory operations became part of
Lazard Ltd. The capital markets and alternative-asset businesses
were folded into a company owned by management called LFCM
Holdings LLC, according to regulatory filings. Lazard Capital is
a wholly owned subsidiary of LFCM.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in  New York  at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Eichenbaum at 
 peichenbaum@bloomberg.net  