-- Banks Face Tougher Basel Capital Rules for Trading Books
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-10-31T12:10:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/banks-face-tougher-global-capital-rules-on-trading-book-assets.html
Banks face a toughening of global
capital rules on swaps, bonds and other securities that they
intend to trade, as regulators seek to make lenders more
resilient to crises.  The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, which brings
together supervisors from 27 nations including the U.S., U.K.
and  China , proposed an overhaul of its bank trading-book rules,
seeking to limit discrepancies in how lenders measure the
riskiness of their investments.  The draft rules would better capture the kinds of losses
that banks might suffer in “a period of significant financial
stress,” the Basel group said in a statement on its website
today. Regulators are seeking a “comprehensive revision” of
global rules to capture banks’ trading-book risks.  Banks’ potential to reduce their capital requirements by
changing how they measure the risk of losses on their assets has
prompted regulatory reviews and calls from some supervisors for
more reliance on non-risk-sensitive capital rules. Bankers
including Jamie Dimon, chief executive officer of  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM) , blamed flexible implementation of previous rounds of
Basel rules in the European Union for enabling the bloc’s
lenders to hold less capital against some assets compared to
their U.S. counterparts.  Retained Earnings  Regulators require banks to have minimum amounts of
capital, such as shareholder equity and retained earnings, on
their balance sheets, to ensure that they can cope with losses
they incur in their day-to-day activities.  The Basel plans would change the system banks should use
for calculating losses, moving from a measurement method known
as Value-At-Risk, or VaR, to an alternative known as “expected
shortfall.” Regulators have said that the revised approach is
better at capturing the extreme losses that can occur during
episodes of systemic turmoil.  The measures would also toughen the approval procedures
that banks have to go through if they want to be allowed to use
internal models to measure their capital requirements.  Unintended Consequences  “While the aim of making the trading operations of banks
safer is laudable, the consequences of measures to achieve this
are uncertain and may indeed present different risks to
financial stability,” Richard Reid, a research fellow for
finance and regulation at the University of Dundee in  Scotland ,
said by e-mail.  Such measures may “drive trading operations into even less
well-regulated and transparent segments of the financial system
which itself of course may present stability problems,” Reid
said.  The Basel group said it would seek views on the measures
until Jan. 31.  “We want the new methodology to be more robust, and
produce more consistent outcomes, than is currently the case,”
Wayne Byres, the Basel committee’s secretary general, said in an
e-mailed response to questions last month.  Banking Books  Today’s proposals concern assets that banks intend to sell
before maturity, as opposed to those they intend to hold to
maturity, which are listed in their banking books.  A Basel study based on a sample of large banks found
“substantial” differences in how much capital lenders thought
was needed to guard against possible losses on trading-book
assets, the group said earlier this year. Differences in the
risk-models used by banks was an “important source” of the
variation.  Today’s measures seek to incorporate lessons learnt from
the study so that there is consistent implementation of capital
rules across banks, the Basel committee said.  Asset Risk  Capital requirements are set as a percentage of a bank’s
assets, with the value of the assets weighted in line with their
riskiness.  Banks must calculate the level of risk using either
internal models, or a standardized approach prepared by
regulators. The latter is based on a mix of credit ratings and
minimum risk-weightings for the amount of reserves that must be
used to back a particular asset.  The Basel group said it’s weighing whether banks that use
internal models should nevertheless be forced to apply the
standardized approach “as a floor or surcharge” to their
capital requirements.  The committee said it will only make a final decision on
this issue after conducting an impact assessment.  The Basel proposals also seek to toughen the boundary
between bank’s trading and banking books to prevent banks simply
shifting assets between them to in ways designed to lower their
capital requirements.  Further Step  The plans mark a further step by the Basel group to
overhaul it’s capital requirements in response to the financial
crisis unleashed by the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. in 2008. A first round of changes, known as Basel 2.5, was
published in 2009, and then incorporated into a broader overhaul
of the group’s rulebook, known as Basel III, which was issued
the following year.  In addition to the plans announced today, the Basel group
is in parallel also working on a detailed overhaul of its
capital rules for securitized debt, in a bid to revise and build
on 2009 changes. It published draft plans last year that it said
would increase overall capital requirements for securitizations.  The Basel committee is part of the Bank for International
Settlements and seeks to co-ordinate the work of bank
regulators. Its rules aren’t automatically binding and must be
implemented by member nations to take effect.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  