-- Bankrupt Alabama County Reaches New Accord With Creditors
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   N e w k i r k   a n d   K a t h l e e n   E d w a r d s
-- 2013-11-01T04:00:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/bankrupt-alabama-county-reaches-new-accord-with-creditors.html
Commissioners in  Alabama ’s Jefferson
County approved a deal with creditors, including $100 million in
new concessions from  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , that may allow the
county to end its two-year bankruptcy.  JPMorgan, the biggest U.S. bank by assets, took the lead in
arranging risky securities deals that pushed the county into
bankruptcy in 2011. The bank had already agreed to forgive $842
million of the $1.22 billion it was owed.  Under the debt-reduction settlement, bond insurers agreed
to $40 million in additional concessions;  hedge funds , $17.5
million; and liquidity banks, $2.8 million. JPMorgan
additionally pledged to provide a 40-year letter of credit up to
$180 million, commissioners were told.  “We now have a clear path out of bankruptcy,” commission
President  David Carrington  said yesterday after the panel voted
to accept the agreement.  Finance Chairman Jimmie Stephens called the plan less than
ideal, but the best the county could do.  “It’s confirmable, feasible and sustainable,” Stephens
said in an interview in Birmingham.  A JPMorgan spokesman,  Justin Perras , said the company would
have no comment.  The agreement replaces a deal reached in June that became
unworkable due to rising interest rates. It would have left the
county about $350 million short of what it needed to exit
bankruptcy. The earlier deal provided $1.84 billion in cash to
settle about $3 billion in sewer debt, tied to a bankruptcy-exit
plan.  Biggest Bankruptcy  Jefferson County became what was then the biggest U.S.
municipal bankruptcy in 2011 when it couldn’t pay what it owed
on the sewer bonds. The sewer project was tainted by political
corruption and by risky refinancing methods.  JPMorgan agreed in a 2009 settlement with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission to pay the county $75 million
and give up more than $657 million in swaps claims.  The hedge funds include Brigade Capital Management LLC,
Claren Road Asset Management LLC, Fundamental Advisors LP, all
based in  New York , and Monarch Capital Master Partners LP,
according to court records.  Insurers, including  Assured Guaranty (AGO)  Municipal, Syncora
Guarantee and Financial Guaranty Insurance, were to get $165
million under the earlier agreement. They said they were owed
$315 million.  ‘Integral Part’  “ Assured Guaranty  has been an integral part of the
solution by helping to facilitate a viable bankruptcy exit
plan,” Chief Executive Officer Dominic Frederico said in a
statement.  Assured will insure $500 million in new Jefferson County
debt under the agreement, according to the statement.  Syncora doesn’t comment on matters being litigated,
Managing Director Michael Corbally said by e-mail.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Thomas Bennett is scheduled to
consider approving the bankruptcy-exit plan next month at a
hearing in Birmingham.  The case is In re Jefferson County, 11-bk-05736,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Northern District of Alabama (Birmingham).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Newkirk in Atlanta at 
 mnewkirk@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Edwards in Birmingham, Alabama at 
 kedwards27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  