-- How Spying Is Just Like Sex
-- B y   J a m e s   L e w i s
-- 2013-10-31T20:55:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/banning-spying-would-be-as-effective-as-a-ban-on-sex.html
The uproar in Europe over spying by
the U.S. National Security Agency has led to calls for a treaty
or code of conduct to limit espionage. To understand why this is
naive, imagine a treaty to ban sex. It would be honored in the
breach. States, too, have an overwhelming natural impulse: to
spy.  Spying is (or was until Edward Snowden) largely covert; no
one freely admits to doing it. It is also one of the last
preserves of the absolute sovereign, unconstrained by law --
think Louis XIV in a trench coat. This is one reason why there
are international laws for trade, travel and warfare, but almost
none governing espionage, except the one that allows spies to be
shot if captured in civilian clothes.  So an agreement to restrict “illegal surveillance,” as
 Germany  and Brazil are proposing at the United Nations, is a non
sequitur. Surveillance isn’t illegal under international law. It
isn’t illegal under the laws of the state conducting the
surveillance. It is likely to be illegal in the country being
spied upon, but the whole point of espionage is to commit
illegal acts in another country. Equally, a code of conduct such
as  France  has proposed would be flouted, first of all by France.  Getting Caught  Countries tread delicately around the issue of spying.
There are informal rules, the most important of which is: Don’t
get caught. The U.S. has clearly violated this rule and must
suffer the consequences. If caught, the standard practice is for
the victim to express outrage and shock, and for the victimizer
to politely deny any knowledge. Then the incident is swept out
of public view. This hasn’t happened with Snowden because those
who control his material shape and time the releases to inflict
maximum damage on the U.S.  The unremarked aspect of the Snowden episode is that it is
information warfare by nonstate actors. The narrative has been
carefully constructed to cast the U.S. as a nation that ignores
international norms to do as it pleases. This cleverly echoes
widely held beliefs about U.S. behavior in invading  Iraq . The
catch, of course, is that when it comes to espionage the U.S.
isn’t unique: All countries spy to protect their national
interests and none will renounce the practice.  The risk is that silly, unenforceable agreements will
detract from addressing the very real problem that Snowden has
inadvertently exposed: that the global networks we depend upon
are easily exploited by spies, criminals and armies. Meaningful
agreement is possible if it avoids a global circus based on the
Snowden mythology and focuses instead on the need for common
rules for privacy and the Internet.  What’s certain is that any global agreement on espionage
would be ignored. Few people remember the 1928 Kellogg-Briand
Pact, in which nations solemnly agreed to renounce war as an
instrument of foreign policy. The agreement is forgotten
because, however noble its intentions, no one paid it the
slightest attention.  Brazil  and Germany can forswear
communications surveillance because they lack the capability.
Those that do, won’t.  Another approach that has been suggested is for Germany and
perhaps other U.S. allies to join the so-called Five Eyes
arrangement, between the U.S., U.K.,  Australia ,  Canada  and New
Zealand. The Five Eyes have a formal agreement not to spy on
each other and to share intelligence that dates back to the dark
days of World War II.  But these five  Anglophone countries  share powerful
political, economic and cultural commonalities that make the
package of agreements difficult to duplicate or expand, even
though their benefits in preventing terrorist attacks and
countering other threats are unmatched. There already exists
strong cooperation with key allies outside of the Five Eye
framework that is in everyone’s interest to continue.  Jihadi Threat  Spying isn’t in a meaningful sense illegal, but nor is it
always politically astute. It might have been better if the U.S.
had resisted temptation to spy on German Chancellor Angela
Merkel and other friendly leaders. But espionage is a symptom of
larger concerns. European countries are home to hundreds of
potential jihadis, and European companies sold technology to the
Iranian nuclear weapons program, to name just two. These are
legitimate grounds for communications surveillance.  The U.S. learned the need for this form of espionage the
hard way. It had no ability to intercept communications until
World War I, when the U.S. Black Chamber was created to break
codes. In 1929, Secretary of State  Henry Stimson  shut the
program down after finding out that it had been spying on
allies: “Gentlemen do not read other gentlemen’s mail,” he
said. This was a cause for regret in 1939. Cost cuts to U.S.
intelligence at the end of the Cold War also proved premature.
One reason we have avoided more mass-casualty events after Sept.
11 is the broad system of surveillance used by the U.S. and its
allies.  If there is distrust in the trans-Atlantic relationship,
there are better ways to deal with it than by trying to limit
espionage. The U.S. needs to recognize European sensitivities
and Germany’s new importance in the world. Germany and Europe
need to recognize that the U.S. has a very different historical
experience, in which espionage has been a safeguard rather than
a tool of oppression. That all are democracies and market
economies isn’t enough to guarantee partnership, but the clamor
over Snowden shouldn’t make us forget that we face much more
dangerous opponents than each other.  (James Lewis is a senior fellow and expert on technology
security at the Center for Strategic and International Studies.
He formerly worked for the departments of State and Commerce and
was seconded to U.S. Central Command during the first Gulf War.)  To contact the writer of this article:
James Lewis at  JALewis@csis.org   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Marc Champion at   mchampion7@bloomberg.net . 