-- Barrick to Suspend Work on Pascua-Lama to Conserve Cash
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2013-10-31T14:28:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/barrick-to-stop-pascua-lama-mine-construction-to-conserve-cash.html
Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX)  will temporarily
suspend construction at its $8.5 billion Pascua-Lama mine on the
Argentina-Chile border as the world’s largest producer of the
metal tries to conserve cash after prices slumped.  Work on the project, located more than 12,000 feet (3,657
meters) up in the Andes mountains, was already partially halted
amid a water dispute. All activity except that needed for
environmental protection and regulatory compliance will cease,
Barrick said today in a statement. It said a restart depends on
future costs, gold prices and the regulatory and legal outlook.  Barrick has come under pressure after gold prices fell 21
percent this year and its debt increased. The Toronto-based
company, led by Chief Executive Officer Jamie Sokalsky, has
explored cash-raising options ranging from a strategic equity
investment to a sale of a stake in its copper business, people
with knowledge of the matter said yesterday.  The company also has considered the sale of an equity stake
or an interest in Pascua-Lama to state-backed Chinese investors,
the people said. Barrick has struggled with the mine, its sole
mine-construction project, amid ballooning costs, delays and
environmental challenges. It took a $5.1 billion writedown on
the asset in the second quarter. Pascua-Lama was originally
expected to cost no more than $3 billion when construction was
approved in 2009.  Cash Flows  “We don’t believe that the suspension of Pascua will come
as a complete surprise,” Greg Barnes, a Toronto-based analyst
at TD Securities Inc. who recommends buying Barrick shares, said
in a note today. The move “may be a relief given the strain
that the project has been placing on the company.”  Barrick dropped along with the price of gold, declining 3.7
percent to $19.75 at 10:26 a.m. in New York. The stock has
fallen 44 percent this year. Gold slid 1.7 percent to $1,326.10
an ounce on the Comex in New York.  The suspension at Pascua-Lama will cut capital spending in
2014 by as much as $1 billion and improve near-term cash flows
“significantly,” Sokalsky said in the statement.  Barrick said it will keep looking for ways to improve
returns on the project, including partnerships or the sale of
royalties and shares of future income. The company will update
cost estimates and plans for the remaining development work.  Construction on the Chilean side of Pascua-Lama was halted
in April after a court injunction was filed by indigenous
communities concerned about potential water-supply
contamination. A regulator ordered improvements to environmental
measures before work could restart. Barrick said in June it
expected first production in mid-2016, rather than a previous
target of the second half of 2014.  Asset Writedowns  Even before today’s announcement, Sokalsky has sought to
lower costs by reducing production at some mines and selling
assets. Barrick took $8.7 billion of writedowns in the second
quarter and cut its  dividend .  Barrick said today it’s targeting $500 million of
additional annual savings from measures including an
organizational restructuring, which involves cutting 1,850 jobs.  Long-term debt was $14.6 billion at the end of the third
quarter, up from $12.1 billion at the end of 2012. It said in a
separate  statement  that options to improve liquidity include
drawing down $4 billion available on a credit facility, further
asset sales, and selling debt or equity either in the public
markets or to private investors, a course of action that may
include the creation of a strategic partnership.  Board Departures  In April, some of Barrick’s biggest Canadian investors
criticized its executive pay as excessive after the company
revealed that Co-chairman John Thornton received an $11.9
million signing bonus. In response, Barrick said it will alter
its compensation policies and add new directors. It said today
there will be departures from the board.  Third-quarter net income fell to 17 cents a share from 65
cents a year earlier, Barrick said today. Earnings excluding tax
adjustments and foreign-exchange losses were 58 cents, topping
the 50-cent average of 20  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Sales declined to 12 percent $2.99 billion, beating the
$2.91 billion average estimate.  Gold production rose to 1.85 million ounces from 1.78
million ounces, beating the 1.8 million-ounce average of 10
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The adjusted operating cost to
produce an ounce of gold was $573, better than the $606 average
projection.  Gold averaged $1,328 an ounce on the Comex in New York in
the third quarter, 20 percent less than a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  