-- Bayer Third-Quarter Earnings Rise on New Medicines
-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 2013-10-31T16:42:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/bayer-third-quarter-earnings-rise-on-new-medicines.html
Bayer AG (BAYN) ’s third-quarter earnings
rose 7.7 percent on higher sales for the new blood thinner and
eye treatment that are recharging its drug portfolio.  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization
and special items rose to 1.98 billion euros ($2.7 billion) from
1.84 billion euros a year earlier, the Leverkusen, Germany-based
company said in a statement today. That beat the 1.87 billion-euro average  estimate  of 11 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  New medicines including the blood thinner Xarelto and the
eye drug Eylea have helped drive Bayer’s profit upward even as
earnings from its MaterialScience plastics division lag. Bayer
is in talks with workers to cut costs at the unit, which makes
chemicals for everything from makeup to car parts, Chief
Executive Officer Marijn Dekkers told reporters in September.  “People do want to own this for the pharma growth,” said
Fabian Wenner, an analyst for Kepler Cheuvreux in Zurich.
“Investors don’t really care about 2013 anymore.” Wenner rates
the stock a hold.  The shares fell 1.1 percent to 91.54 euros in  Frankfurt .
Bayer returned 32 percent this year prior to today, including
reinvested dividends, outpacing the 25 percent return for the
Bloomberg Europe Pharmaceutical Index.  Third-quarter sales fell 0.2 percent to 9.6 billion euros,
below the average analyst estimate of 9.8 billion.  Pharma Growth  Revenue will reach 40 billion euros this year, the company
said, compared with a previous forecast of 40 billion euros to
41 billion euros. “We are maintaining our guidance, although it
is increasingly ambitious,” Dekkers said in the statement.  Bayer has said the pharmaceuticals business it operates out
of its HealthCare unit will drive future growth. Sales of
pharmaceuticals climbed 3.1 percent to 2.82 billion euros,
outpacing a 0.5 percent sales increase at the broader HealthCare
unit. New drugs Xarelto, Eylea and cancer medicines Stivarga and
Xofigo had combined sales of 407 million euros.  The company’s goal is to increase Ebitda before special
items by a mid-single-digit percentage this year and for an
increase of core earnings per share by a high-single-digit
percentage.  Bayer boosted its forecast for its CropScience agriculture
unit, saying Ebitda before special items will rise by at least
10 percent there. The company had previously forecast a high-single-digit percentage increase for the unit, which has
flourished even as the plastics division flailed.  MaterialScience saw prices continue to drop and raw
material costs rise in the quarter. The unit’s sales declined
3.1 percent to 2.9 billion euros, while Ebitda before special
items rose 2.7 percent to 346 million euros, factoring in the
sale of a coatings business for 17 million euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  