-- Belgian Pleads Not Guilty to Shipping Tubes to Iran Front
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-10-31T16:58:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/belgian-pleads-not-guilty-to-shipping-tubes-to-iran-front.html
A Belgian man pleaded not guilty to
charges he tried to circumvent U.S. laws aimed at curbing
nuclear weapons proliferation.  Nicholas Kaiga, 36, identified by prosecutors as “of
Brussels and  London ,” entered his plea today through defense
attorney Daniel McLaughlin in federal court in  Chicago .  Kaiga, the managing director of a Belgian company called
Industrial Metals & Commodities, is accused of trying to ship
aluminum tubes made by a suburban Chicago business -- and
subject to the federal International Emergency Economic Powers
Act -- to a company in  Malaysia .  “The Malaysian business is a front company operated by an
individual who is located at times in  Iran ,” Chicago U.S.
Attorney Zachary T. Fardon said in a statement yesterday, citing
court documents.  McLaughlin declined to comment on the allegations after
today’s arraignment before U.S. Magistrate Judge Maria Valdez.
Kaiga appeared before Valdez wearing an orange, prison-issue
uniform. Arrested in June, he remains in federal custody.  The tubing is used in the aerospace industry among other
applications, according to the U.S.  From November 2009 to February 2012, Kaiga allegedly tried
to send the regulated tubing from an business in Schaumburg,
 Illinois , to the company in Malaysia without a government
license to do so.  Breach of the IEEPA is punishable by as long as 20 years in
prison and a $1 million fine. Kaiga also faces two counts of
making false statements on U.S. export forms, each subject to a
maximum sentence of five years and a $250,000 fine.  The case is U.S. v. Kaiga, 13-cr-00531, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in federal court in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  