-- Bet the Greek With Macho Man and the Euro: David Papadopoulos
-- B y   D a v i d   P a p a d o p o u l o s
-- 2013-10-31T04:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/bet-the-greek-with-macho-man-and-the-euro-david-papadopoulos.html
The first of the 14  Breeders’ Cup 
races is still more than 24 hours away and the event already has
worn me out. A month-long search for betting value in the
richest race of them all, the $5 million Classic, has led to
nothing but frustration and confusion.  Each time I settled on a horse to wager on, doubts crept
in. I started out backing  Mucho Macho Man  before ditching him
for  Ron the Greek , who then got abandoned for  Paynter , who in
turn was dumped for  Declaration of War , who himself got tossed
out this week.  All this flip-flopping is exhausting.  And I’m running out of ideas. The other eight horses
assembled for the finale of the two-day Breeders’ Cup leave me
cold. Three of them, including the talented favorite Game on
Dude, are speedballs that could get caught up in an early battle
for the lead that will sap their energy.  The two young stars in the race, Palace Malice and Will
Take Charge, are unlikely to produce peak performances after
grueling Triple Crown campaigns that began in the dead of
winter. The venerable 7-year-old Flat Out does his best racing
in  New York , far away from the site of this year’s Breeders’
Cup,  Santa Anita Park  in Arcadia,  California .  Last Gunfighter and Planteur seem improbable.  That, of course, brings me right back to the four horses
I’ve been kicking around for the past month.  This is becoming circular.  Zombie Horse  Here’s a snapshot of each:  -- Mucho Macho Man. This horse is rounding into top form
and loves Santa Anita’s dirt track, but it’s hard to take odds
of about 5-1 in the country’s most competitive race after he
offered a  price of 8-1  against an inferior group just three
months ago.  -- Ron the Greek. He figures to get a perfect set-up,
watching the frontrunners knock each other out as he jogs along
toward the back of the pack before making his move late. The
Greek won in smashing fashion in his  last outing  at odds of
21-1. Yet he’s shown little ability during his career to post
back-to-back dominant races. How do I now take 8-1 on him?  -- Paynter. He earned the nickname Zombie horse in my
household by miraculously staving off death last year after
colitis ravaged his body. Since returning to the races in June,
the colt has flashed signs of his old self and appears to be
training well for the 1 1/4-mile (2-kilometer)  Classic . While
all this makes for a great storyline, he just may not be ready
to take on this caliber of animal. Where’s the value in a price
of 12-1?  Exotic Wagers  -- Declaration of War. The U.K.-based colt was actually
bred in the U.S. before being shipped across the Atlantic, which
gives him more of a pedigree for American dirt racing than other
Euros. Still, he’s never actually competed on dirt, having run
almost exclusively on the turf over the past two years.
Estimated odds of 10-1 seem paltry on a horse that’s wading into
the unknown.  Dizzy from my own hemming and hawing at this point, I’ll
let the tote board guide my wagering.  In a field this big and competitive, at least one of those
four horses will probably get overlooked by bettors and drift
higher in odds as race time approaches. I’ll bet that horse to
win and play him in exotic wagers -- exactas, trifectas,
superfectas -- with the other three in a bid to line my wallet
with hundred-dollar bills.  Done. Decided. No more flip-flopping.  (David Papadopoulos, the team leader for Latin America
markets coverage at  Bloomberg News , has been following
thoroughbred racing for more than two decades and was runner-up
in 2008 Eclipse Award voting for feature writing on the sport.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  