-- BG Group Profit Drops as Production, LNG Shipments Decline
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n   a n d   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2013-10-31T07:26:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/bg-group-profit-drops-as-production-lng-shipments-decline.html
BG Group Plc (BG/) ’s profit dropped 4
percent in the third quarter as the U.K.’s third-largest gas
producer cut output and shipped less liquefied natural gas.  Earnings excluding disposals and one-time items slipped to
$1.07 billion from $1.11 billion a year earlier, the Reading,
England-based company said today in a statement. That beat the
$943 million average estimate in a Bloomberg  survey  of nine
analysts. Production fell 10 percent from a year earlier.  Chief Executive Officer Chris Finlayson has almost restored
the value of the company since taking over from  Frank Chapman  in
January. The shares fell by a record a year ago after the
company reduced output targets. Finlayson in September flagged
more project delays into next year.  The drop in earnings was “largely as a result of lower
volumes in both upstream and LNG segments,” Finlayson said.
“We will see production recover in the fourth quarter.”  Production dropped 10 percent to 53.4 million barrels of
oil equivalent (about 580,000 barrels a day) in the quarter.  “Third quarter will be the low point of production for the
year, with high levels of maintenance in the U.K. North Sea and
lower gas production from  Egypt ,”  Oswald Clint , a London-based
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., said before the earnings
announcement. He estimated BG’s LNG cargoes would drop to 38 in
the quarter from 50 a year earlier because less fuel will be
available from Nigeria and Egypt.  Africa Disruption  BG’s LNG operations in  Africa  were disrupted after Nigeria
LNG Ltd. declared force majeure on shipments and supplies from
Egypt were reduced by expanding domestic demand and political
turmoil in the country.  BG, which plans to become the world’s largest seller of LNG
in 2017, is looking at purchasing fields in  Canada  to produce
the fuel for customers in  Asia . This month, it sold its stake in
TGGT, a U.S. pipeline joint-venture company, to Azure Midstream
Energy LP for cash and shares.  In July, Finlayson appointed Simon Lowth of AstraZeneca Plc
as chief financial officer, replacing  Fabio Barbosa . Lowth will
start next month.  BG, the biggest U.K.-listed gas producer after Royal Dutch
Shell Plc and BP Plc, will host a  webcast presentation  at 12
p.m. London time.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  