-- Bid War for Cheese Heralds 13% Warrnambool Bump: Real M&A
-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y   a n d   D a v i d   S t r i n g e r
-- 2013-11-01T06:13:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/bid-war-for-cheese-heralds-13-warrnambool-bump-real-m-a.html
A three-way bidding war for
Australian cheese that is already leading to one of  Asia ’s most
expensive food deals is poised to become even pricier.  Saputo Inc. (SAP)  of Montreal offered $425 million for
 Warrnambool Cheese & Butter Factory Co. (WCB)  last month, beating two
bidders with a record premium for a peer in Asia, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. After  Japan ’s  Kirin Holdings Co. (2503) 
this week bought about 10 percent of Warrnambool for more than
Saputo’s proposed takeover price, bids may rise even higher,
said RBS Morgans Ltd.  Warrnambool offers Saputo a springboard into Asia’s growing
markets, while Australian bidders and shareholders Murray
Goulburn Co-operative Co. and  Bega Cheese Ltd. (BGA)  want to keep out
their larger Canadian rival, according to Rivkin Securities Pty.
Shares in  Australia ’s oldest dairy producer are trading above
Saputo’s A$8-a-share cash proposal, indicating some investors
expect a higher offer. Bids may reach A$9, said RBS Morgans.  “There will be more corporate moves on this,” Graeme
Browning, Sydney-based head of Australian transactions at EY,
the consulting firm formerly known as Ernst & Young, said in a
phone interview. “This is a very strategic asset to a whole
range of buyers.”  The 125-year-old  Warrnambool , based near the town in
Victoria that bears its name, said that exports accounted for 46
percent of sales last fiscal year. Its brands include Sungold
milk.  Bidding Contest  The bidding for Warrnambool started when Bega, the
company’s  biggest investor  with an 18 percent stake, made a
stock-and-cash proposal that was valued at A$5.78 a share when
it was announced Sept. 12. The next month, Saputo offered A$7 a
share and Murray Goulburn, which owns 17 percent of Warrnambool,
bid A$7.50. Then Saputo,  Canada ’s largest dairy processor,
agreed to pay A$8 on Oct. 25.  This week, Kirin’s food and drinks unit in Australia,  Lion ,
 said  it acquired 9.99 percent of Warrnambool. According to
exchange filings, it bought the shares on Oct. 29, when they
were trading above Saputo’s latest bid.  Warrnambool has agreements to supply as much as 20,000
metric tons of cheddar each year for Lion’s Coon and Cracker
Barrel cheese brands, according to an April presentation. The
purchase of a stake in Warrnambool was a “strengthening of this
relationship,” Sydney-based Lion said in a statement.  “Kirin has bought itself an ability to influence the
outcome,” said Browning, head of Oceania Transactions Advisory
at EY. “It almost ups the stakes for the previous three
bidders. They each now have to deal with Kirin.”  Deal Security  Kirin is concerned its supply deal with Warrnambool will be
at risk under Saputo’s ownership, said Shannon Rivkin, Sydney-based director at Rivkin Securities. Lion’s stake makes it
tougher for Saputo, which has stipulated it must own more than
50 percent of Warrnambool to proceed with its bid, he said.  “It’s a very expensive seat at the table,” Rivkin said in
a phone interview. “Saputo’s position is not as good.”  Warrnambool closed at A$8.27 in Sydney trading. That
reflected some expectations of a higher bid, Rivkin said.  A deal with Warrnambool would result in “substantial”
cost savings for Bega and closely held Murray Goulburn, and they
could both potentially offer more, said  Belinda Moore , an
analyst at RBS Morgans in Brisbane.  For Saputo, the target is a means to tap China’s dairy boom
and that’s tough to value, she said.  “Will the next bid be at A$8.50? That’s a high
possibility,” Moore said in a phone interview. “If that’s
either Bega or Murray Goulburn, does Saputo then come in and
trounce them with A$9? That could be likely.”  Still Committed  Bega, based in the New South Wales town of the same name,
won approval yesterday from Australia’s competition regulator to
proceed with its bid. Bega’s directors will meet next week to
consider raising the offer, Chairman Barry Irvin said in an
interview yesterday. Bids are already “pretty big,” he said.  Bega shares today jumped 9.5 percent to A$4.83 after  New
Zealand ’s Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd., the world’s largest
dairy exporter, said today it bought a 6 percent stake in Bega.
The gain swelled the value of Bega’s cash-and-stock offer to
A$7.80 for each Warrnambool share.  Fonterra plans to participate in any consolidation of
Australia’s dairy industry, it said in a statement today.  Murray Goulburn spokeswoman Lynn Semjaniv declined to say
whether the company planned to raise its bid. The producer
“remains committed” to buying Warrnambool, the Melbourne-based
company said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  Saputo’s current bid is “compelling,” Chief Executive
Officer Lino Saputo said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.
“We also have the financial capacity to deliver on this,” he
said.  Too High?  Warrnambool expects the price of exported milk powder,
butter and cheese to surge in coming months, and analysts
 project  the company’s profit will more than double in the 12
months ending June 2014.  China  is setting new records for milk-powder imports,
Warrnambool  said  last month, while across  Southeast Asia , local
dairy production can’t keep up with demand, agricultural
researcher Rabobank said in a July  report .  Even so, it’s unclear if any bidder can make a return
buying Warrnambool at the current price, said Evan Lucas, a
Melbourne-based strategist at IG Markets Ltd.  “I’d be wondering whether I’d gone past the point where
it’s actually viable,” Lucas said in a phone interview. “Does
Warrnambool have the asset quality to back up that kind of
price?”  Warrnambool last year posted its lowest profit since 2009
and its stock fetched as little as A$3.89 in June.  Motivated Buyers  Saputo’s A$8-a-share offer, approved by Warrnambool’s
directors, was 80 percent higher than the stock’s average price
in the 20 days before bidding started, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That’s a record premium for a takeover of
a food company in Asia with a market value of more than $200
million, the data show.  Rivkin said all bidders have a motive to make higher
offers. Saputo, with a  market value  more than 14 times larger
than Bega’s, can afford to overpay for Warrnambool to deliver
its Asian strategy, Rivkin said. Bega and Murray Goulburn risk
becoming targets themselves if Saputo buys Warrnambool, he said.  “The bidding war is almost a challenge of how much is it
worth to me versus how much can I afford to lose it,” said Norm Repacholi, commercial research and analysis manager at Dairy
Australia, which raises levies from farmers to fund industry
projects. “Each of the different players has a unique
competitive imperative.”  Among suitors with differing goals, it’s not clear how high
the bids may go, said Moore at RBS Morgans.  “This could potentially play on for months and the offers
could continue to rise,” she said. “Watch this space.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net ;
David Stringer in Melbourne at 
 dstringer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  