-- Billionaire Touts Hospital Bond Driven by Obamacare: Muni Credit
-- B y   T o l u s e   O l o r u n n i p a
-- 2013-10-31T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/billionaire-touts-hospital-bond-driven-by-obamacare-muni-credit.html
Voters in  Florida ’s most-populous
county will decide next week whether to pay higher taxes and
sell a record $830 million of debt for their flagship public
hospital to help it prepare for Obamacare.  Miami-Dade County’s Jackson Health System would use the
proceeds to help lure more insured patients as it copes with an
expected funding drop under the health-care law passed in 2010.
The borrowing would be the county’s biggest to aid Jackson,
which has its main hospital in Miami and faces cuts to the
government subsidies it relies on to treat the poor and
uninsured who make up 62 percent of its patients.  The campaign to pass the borrowing has raised $1.8 million
from local executives and philanthropists, including $25,000
from billionaire car dealer Norman Braman. Yet Burt Mulford, a
 money manager  at  St. Petersburg , Florida-based Eagle Asset
Management, says even with the bonds financing room renovations,
the hospital will be “a fiscal drain on the county.”  Partly because about 34 percent of Miami-Dade residents
lack coverage, more than double the national average, “Jackson
is going to take a hit every time they take in a new patient who
is unemployed or doesn’t have insurance,” said Mulford, whose
firm oversees about $2 billion of munis.  Expansion Denied  The county of 2.6 million may add to its debt load for the
hospital after Florida joined 24 other states in deciding
against expanding Medicaid. Under President  Barack Obama ’s
health-care overhaul, the U.S. would pay all the added cost for
the first three years and at least 90 percent after that for
enlarging the state-federal insurance program for the poor.  The U.S. Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act has a
goal of reducing the number of uninsured by widening Medicaid
coverage, while cutting payments to providers for uncompensated
care. Jackson had $139.2 million in unreimbursed costs last year
for community benefits such as free care to the uninsured poor.  For Jackson, which flirted with insolvency as recently as
2011 and tackled five straight years of deficits, selling debt
on its own wasn’t an option, said Carlos Migoya, its chief
executive officer.  Migoya said the money will help the 95-year-old system make
needed improvements. Funds would go toward projects such as
renovating rooms, buying medical equipment, building a
rehabilitation center and creating a network of urgent-care
clinics.  Balance Sought  “We need to have that balance of luring those who are
paying patients to also help support those that can’t,” said
Lynda Bell, vice chairwoman of the county commission.  Expanding Medicaid would have added more than 1 million
Floridians to the program and brought more than $50 billion in
extra U.S. aid over the next decade. Some of the cash would’ve
gone to Jackson, the largest provider of Medicaid services in
the fourth-most-populous state.  While Republican Governor  Rick Scott , 60, announced his
support for Medicaid expansion in February, lawmakers adjourned
three months later without an agreement on the issue. Like
Florida, the states that have decided against expanding Medicaid
are led by Republican governors or legislatures.  Miami-Dade County Commissioner Xavier Suarez said he tried
to convince lawmakers in Tallahassee to expand Medicaid earlier
this year, to no avail. The refusal will cost Jackson, he said.  “It puts enormous pressure on us,” Suarez said. “The
estimates were that we could lose $100 million. How we make that
up isn’t easy.”  Tax Burden  If the hospital measure passes, property levies would rise
as much as $50 annually for the average homeowner to pay off the
debt over 30 years, government projections show.  The hospital’s political campaign committee has been helped
by donors such as Braman, a former owner of the  Philadelphia
Eagles , and  Stuart Miller , chief executive officer of Miami-based homebuilder  Lennar Corp. (LEN)  Miller contributed $200,000.  The hospital is Miami-Dade’s seventh-largest employer, with
more than 11,000 workers.  Moody’s Investors Service, which grades the county Aa2,
third-highest, with a stable outlook, has cited financial
pressure from the hospital as a challenge. The county had about
$1 billion of general-obligation debt as of September 2012,
financial records show.  In the $3.7 trillion municipal-bond market, Miami-Dade
obligations have fared worse than benchmark securities in recent
months, even as local debt nationwide is on pace for its
steepest  annual drop  since 2008,  Standard & Poor’s  data show.  Spread Surge  Tax-exempt county bonds maturing in July 2029 traded Oct.
23 at an average yield of 3.74 percent, or 2.4 percentage points
more than benchmark debt, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That
compares with a yield spread of about 1.5 percentage points at
the end of May.  As the region’s largest hospital for the poor and
uninsured, with 2,449 beds, Jackson receives federal, state and
local subsidies for providing unreimbursed care. The system
began as the 13-bed Miami City Hospital, which opened in 1918.
Renamed Jackson Hospital, it affiliated with the  University of
Miami  medical school in 1952. After opening outside clinics and
other facilities, it was renamed Jackson Health System in 2001.  Migoya took charge in 2011 as part of a new management team
assigned to turn the ailing system around.  Jackson posted an $8.2 million 2012 surplus after five
years of losses, according to a February audit. In December, the
county obtained a $75 million line of credit for Jackson,
according to S&P.  Deficit Plugged  The value of all taxable property in the county rose 3.5
percent this year, as buyers from abroad helped boost  home
prices . The jurisdiction still struggled to plug a $50 million
budget gap, choosing to draw from reserves rather than dismiss
library workers. The area’s jobless rate of 7.9 percent in
August was higher than the 7.3 percent  U.S. average .  “The tax base in Miami-Dade is not quite as robust as we
want to see,” said Eagle Asset’s Mulford. The  labor force  has
contracted by 1.2 percent since February as fewer residents seek
work, according to federal labor statistics.  Voters authorized $1.2 billion in school bonds last year,
backed by  tax revenue . The county has also approved bond sales
this year to finance improvements to sewers and the seaport,
with each set to cost more than $1 billion.  Jackson got $335 million from county taxes and about $90
million from federal and state sources last year. The system’s
costs for providing free care and related expenses topped $565
million in 2012, according to an April 29 report on its website.  Market Week  In the municipal market this week, issuers are set to offer
about $5 billion in long-term debt with benchmark yields at a
four-month low.  The  interest rate  on AAA 10-year munis is  2.65 percent , the
lowest since June 21, Bloomberg data show. That compares with
 2.54 percent  on similar-maturity Treasuries.  The ratio of the yields, a gauge of relative value, is
about 105 percent, compared with an average of 94 percent since
2001. It has been above 100 percent since June 24. The higher
the ratio, the cheaper munis are compared with federal debt.  Following is a pending sale:  The industrial development  authority  of Florida’s Collier
County will offer about $190 million in debt next week to
finance Arlington of Naples Inc.’s continuing-care project,
according to a preliminary statement. The project consists of
242 living units and 44 nursing-home beds being built by the
not-for-profit corporation affiliated with the Lutheran Church.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Toluse Olorunnipa in Tallahassee, Florida at 
 tolorunnipa@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 