-- BNP Third-Quarter Profit Rises on Fewer Loan Provisions
-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 2013-10-31T08:47:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/bnp-third-quarter-profit-rises-on-lower-provisions-for-bad-debt.html
BNP Paribas SA (BNP) ,  France ’s largest
bank, unexpectedly posted an increase in third-quarter profit as
it set aside fewer provisions for bad debt and pared costs. The
shares rose.  Net income climbed 2.4 percent to 1.36 billion euros ($1.86
billion) from 1.33 billion euros a year earlier, the Paris-based
bank said in an e-mailed statement today. That beat the 1.19
billion-euro average estimate of six analysts  surveyed  by
Bloomberg.  BNP Paribas is setting aside fewer provisions for non-performing loans as the euro region’s economy emerges from a
record-long recession. That’s helped offset lower revenue from
consumer banking and fixed-income trading as clients pulled back
amid speculation over the  Federal Reserve ’s reduction in bond
purchases.  “In the current environment, it’s solid results,” Alex Koagne, a Paris-based analyst at Natixis SA who recommends
buying BNP’s shares, said by telephone. “The drop in provisions
sustains earnings and above all they are ahead of schedule in
their plan of costs reduction.”  BNP climbed as much as 2.8 percent in Paris trading, the
biggest increase in three weeks. The shares rose 2.3 percent to
53.96 euros at 9:24 a.m., valuing the company at 67.2 billion
euros. Gains this year were 27 percent, outpacing an advance of
18 percent for the Bloomberg  Europe  Banks & Financial Services
Index.  The bank set aside 892 million euros for bad loans in the
third quarter, 5.5 percent less than a year ago and 20 percent
less than the previous three months, it said. That beat
analysts’ average estimate of 1.05 billion euros.  Cost-Cutting  The bank has achieved more than a quarter of its 2015 goal
of cutting 2 billion euros in annual expenses, it said today.
Operating expenses fell 2.1 percent in the third quarter from a
year ago to 6.43 billion euros. Costs at operating divisions, at
constant scope and exchange rates, climbed 0.6 percent in the
period, BNP said.  Chief Executive Officer Jean-Laurent Bonnafe, 52, who has
announced plans to expand in Asia,  Germany  and in online banking
and asset-management, will publish a three-year development plan
early next year setting out the bank’s strategy.  Pretax profit at the corporate and investment bank, which
includes trading and corporate finance, dropped less than
analysts estimated. Profit fell 24 percent to 552 million euros
from a year ago compared with an average estimate for a profit
of 523 million euros. While sales from fixed-income trading
dropped 27 percent to 780 million euros, equities and advisory
revenue rose 14 percent to 484 million euros, BNP said.  Bond Trading  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in May that the central
bank may begin tapering the $85 billion in monthly bond
purchases it has conducted to help boost the economy.  BNP joins Germany’s  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and U.S. securities
firms such as Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in reporting a decline in
fixed-income trading.  French banks “should temper” the slowdown in revenue as
the fixed-income business represents a smaller slice of their
total revenue compared with European rivals, Citigroup Inc.
analysts including London-based Kinner Lakhani said in a report
this month.  BNP and  Societe Generale SA (GLE) , France’s second-largest bank
by market value, saw 11 percent of total revenues in the first
half coming from trading bonds, currencies and commodities, the
Citigroup analysts said. That compares with 29 percent of
revenue at Deutsche Bank and 25 percent at Credit Suisse Group
AG, they said.  Trading Revenue  Deutsche Bank, Europe’s biggest investment bank by revenue,
said this week that sales from trading debt and other products
fell 49 percent in the third quarter from a year ago. The five
biggest U.S. investment banks saw their combined revenue from
trading fixed income, currencies and commodities slide 25
percent in the period, according to data from Bloomberg
Industries.  BNP Paribas’ common equity Tier 1 capital adequacy ratio
under fully applied Basel III standards, a key measure of
financial strength, rose to 10.8 percent at the end of September
from 10.4 percent three months earlier.  “On the back of a rock-solid balance sheet with very high
solvency and as liquidity reserves further increased, the group
continues to prepare the 2014-2016 business development plan,”
Bonnafe said.  Consumer Banking  BNP Paribas’ consumer banking pretax earnings were 1.52
billion euros in the third quarter, 9.2 percent lower than a
year ago. Revenue at its U.S. Bancwest retail branches fell
about 10 percent 556 million euros, hurt by the unfavorable
rates environment although lending and deposits rose from a year
ago, the bank said.  Pretax earnings at BNP’s French consumer bank were almost
unchanged at 459 million euros in the quarter, missing the 482
million-euro analysts’ average estimate. In  Belgium , where BNP
Paribas’ consumer-banking unit is closing 150 branches by 2015,
third-quarter pretax earnings rose 2.2 percent from a year
earlier, according to the earnings data.  Other Markets  While Europe’s economic downturn is weighing on BNP’s key
euro-area markets -- France, Italy and Belgium -- the bank is
seeking to capture more clients in faster-growing economies. The
firm said in July that it plans to increase the workforce by 500
people across its businesses in Germany, where it employs about
3,500 people, to achieve annual revenue of 1.5 billion euros by
2016.  BNP is also hiring about 1,300 people over three years at
its corporate- and investment-banking and investment-solutions
businesses in the Asia-Pacific region. The bank foresees annual
revenue growth of 12 percent through 2016 in  Asia , it said in
February.  Pretax profit at BNP Paribas’ investment-solutions unit,
which includes asset management, private banking and insurance,
rose 1.6 percent to 506 million euros in the third quarter,
almost matching analysts’ estimates for 507 million euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  