-- BNP Lures Asia Millionaires Amid Asset Management Outflow
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 2013-10-31T13:57:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/bnp-lures-asia-millionaires-amid-asset-management-outflow.html
BNP Paribas SA (BNP) ,  France ’s largest
bank, said net new money from affluent individuals in Asia and
European markets helped boost assets in the third quarter.  Wealth management assets rose 2.5 percent to 279 billion
euros ($381 billion) from the second quarter after clients in
Asia as well as France,  Belgium ,  Luxembourg  and Italy added
funds, the Paris-based lender said today. Net inflows were 2.1
billion euros, up from 800 million euros a year earlier.  “Asset growth was supported by strong net collections in
Asia and Europe,” Vincent Lecomte, co-head of wealth
management, said in an e-mailed response to questions today.
“Revenue and profit are also up this year, supported by higher
transaction volumes in all our markets, reflecting more appetite
for risk from clients compared with last year.”  BNP Paribas is hiring private bankers in Asia as it targets
assets from rich individuals in the world’s fastest-growing
wealth markets. The bank plans to double assets and revenue from
the region over the next three to five years, Lecomte has said,
to try and close the gap on Swiss and U.S. companies that
dominate private bank rankings.  Wealth management assets at BNP Paribas in the Asia-Pacific
region jumped 20 percent to 34.6 billion euros in the 12 months
through June 30, Chief Operating Officer Philippe Bordenave said
at a  presentation  on Sept. 25. The firm, which has offices in
Hong Kong,  Singapore  and  Taiwan , declined to provide a figure
for the third quarter.  Affluent Individuals  BNP Paribas is the world’s ninth-biggest wealth manager,
according to a July study of client assets by London-based
Scorpio Partnership, with Switzerland’s  UBS AG (UBSN)  ranked No. 1. The
Swiss bank reported global assets under management of more than
1.7 trillion Swiss francs ($1.9 trillion) as of Sept. 30
including 211 billion francs from the Asia-Pacific region.  Net new money from affluent individuals helped partially
compensate for the sixth consecutive quarter of net outflows
from BNP Paribas’s asset-management unit, according to company
presentations. Institutional customers withdrew 5.6 billion
euros, in particular from bond funds, in the three months
through September, the bank said.  Global pretax profit at BNP’s wealth and asset management
units declined 11 percent to 158 million euros in the third
quarter. The company doesn’t provide figures on wealth
management profit alone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  