-- Bond Risk Rises in Asia as Japan CDS Costs Climb Most in a Month
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   P u r v i s
-- 2013-10-31T01:33:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/bond-risk-rises-in-asia-as-japan-cds-costs-climb-most-in-a-month.html
The cost of insuring corporate and
sovereign bonds in  Asia  against non-payment rose, according to
traders of credit-default swaps.  The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside  Japan  climbed 2 basis points to 131 basis
points as of 8:22 a.m. in  Hong Kong , Australia & New Zealand
Banking Group Ltd. prices show. The gauge is rebounding after
yesterday falling by the most since Oct. 11, according to data
provider CMA. It’s poised to end the month 25.4 basis points
below September’s close, the biggest decline since June last
year, CMA data show.  The Markit iTraxx Japan index rose 1.5 basis points to 89
as of 9:23 a.m. in  Tokyo , according to Citigroup Inc. prices.
The measure is set for its biggest daily increase since Sept.
30, according to CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and
compiles prices quoted by dealers in the private market. The 8.3
basis-point drop since Sept. 30 is the largest monthly decline
since July.  The Markit iTraxx Australia index fell 1 basis point to 105
basis points as of 11:22 a.m. in Sydney, according to National
Australia Bank Ltd. prices. The benchmark last rose on Oct. 25,
CMA data show. The Aussie benchmark is set for a 20.2 basis
point drop in October, the most since January 2012.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for insuring
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
 credit quality . A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Purvis in Sydney at 
 bpurvis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  