-- BP Offers Azeri Light; Libya Lifts Force Majeure on Hariga Port
-- B y   L a u r a   H u r s t   a n d   S h e r r y   S u
-- 2013-10-31T17:38:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/bp-offers-azeri-light-libya-lifts-force-majeure-on-hariga-port.html
BP Plc (BP/)  failed to sell a cargo of
Azeri Light for the second time this week. Mercuria Energy
Trading SA didn’t manage to sell  North Sea  Forties crude.  Libya’s state-run National Oil Corp. lifted a force majeure
on the Hariga oil export terminal. Crude export operations
resumed at 9 a.m. today, according to a statement posted on the
NOC’s website.  North Sea  Mercuria offered Forties crude for loading Nov. 13 to Nov.
15 at a discount of 40 cents a barrel to Dated Brent, a
Bloomberg survey of traders and brokers monitoring the Platts
pricing window showed. The grade last traded on Oct. 29 at Brent
minus 54 cents.  BP withdrew an offer to sell Forties crude for loading Nov.
17 to Nov. 19 at a premium of 20 cents a barrel to Dated Brent
for a second day, the survey showed.  Brent for December settlement traded at $108.66 a barrel on
the ICE Futures Europe exchange at the close of the window,
compared with $109.36 from the previous session. The January
contract was at $108.47, a discount of 19 cents to December.  Urals/Mediterranean  There were no bids or offers for Russian Urals. The grade
last traded Oct. 28 at Brent minus $1.40 for delivery to
Augusta,  Italy .  BP failed to sell Azeri Light for Nov. 23 to Nov. 27 at
$3.25 a barrel more than Dated Brent, the survey showed. That’s
5 cents lower than the company’s offer yesterday.  Russia will cut November exports of Urals crude from the
Baltic port of Primorsk by 9 percent, according to a final
loading program obtained by Bloomberg News. Forty-five cargoes
totaling 4.476 million tons will be shipped from the port. Daily
exports will drop to 1.09 million barrels a day, compared with
1.2 million barrels a day in October.  Ust-Luga Urals shipments for next month are scheduled at 22
cargoes, equivalent to 2.2 million tons. The Black Sea port of
Novorossiysk will export 26 cargoes of the blend in November,
totaling 2.745 million tons. The final program is little changed
from the preliminary version that was released Oct. 29.  Hariga is the only port operating in eastern  Libya , where
much of the nation’s oil is located. One tanker has gone to the
facility this month, according to vessel-tracking data compiled
by Bloomberg.  The north African country’s Sharara oil field may restart
in 10 days, Salah A. Ben Ali, the manager of the international
cooperation office at the oil and gas ministry, said in
 Singapore  today. Production at the field was halted on Oct. 21
by protesters.  The Zawiya refinery is using stored crude for local use
only, Mansur Abdullah, oil movement coordinator at Zawiya
refinery, said by phone today. Crude exports were stopped after
Sharara was closed. The Brega terminal has restarted and is
operating at a rate of 40,000 to 50,000 barrels a day.  The Sarir oil field, which has an output capacity of
180,000 barrels a day, is now pumping 25,000 barrels a day
because of the closure of the Hariga and Ras Lanuf ports since
July, Ibrahim Al Awami, the oil ministry’s head of measurement
and inspection, said today by phone.  The NOC reduced its official selling price of benchmark Es
Sider crude for November to 40 cents a barrel less than Dated
Brent, the lowest since September 2012, according to a price
list obtained by  Bloomberg News . That compares with a discount
of 30 cents for October. Prices for all other grades were also
reduced by 5 to 20 cents versus October, the list showed.  West Africa  West  Africa ’s biggest oil exports to  Asia  in almost two
years are threatened by competing Russian supply and new
refineries capable of processing cheaper Middle East crude.  Shipments from West Africa to Asia will average 1.92
million barrels a day next month, the most since February 2012,
according to estimates from seven traders and an analysis of
loading schedules obtained by Bloomberg News. The surge shows
how Nigeria and its neighbors are succeeding in finding new
markets after a slump in sales to the U.S., where domestic
output rose to the highest in almost a quarter century.  Nigeria  will boost December exports of Bonny Light crude to
122,581 barrels a day, up from 96,667 barrels a day in November,
a loading program obtained by Bloomberg News showed. The plan
includes a deferred cargo from the end of November.  Nigeria, Africa’s largest oil producer, is scheduled to
export 62 cargoes, totaling 57.6 million barrels, loading plans
obtained by Bloomberg News showed. That equates to about 1.86
million barrels a day in December, or the least since July.  Japan  cut crude imports from Africa by 40 percent to 1.18
million barrels in September, according to data released by the
Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry.  The U.S. Gulf of Mexico region didn’t import Nigerian crude
in August for the first month since at least 1993, according to
data from the Energy Information Administration. That’s down
from 47,000 barrels a day of crude in July. Total U.S. imports
of Nigerian crude fell to 134,000 barrels a day in August, the
data showed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Hurst in London at 
 lhurst3@bloomberg.net ;
Sherry Su in London at 
 lsu23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  