-- Brazil Posts Widest Federal Primary Budget Gap in Almost 5 Years
-- B y   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o   a n d   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t
-- 2013-10-31T12:55:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/brazil-posts-widest-federal-primary-budget-gap-in-almost-5-years.html
Brazil’s federal government posted
the widest primary budget deficit in almost five years, a
performance that Banco J. Safra says increases the probability
the nations credit rating will be downgraded.  The budget  balance , excluding interest payments, swung into
a 10.5 billion reais deficit from a surplus of 87 million reais
a month earlier, the National Treasury said in a report
distributed in Brasilia today. The deficit, which excludes
states, municipalities and state companies, exceeded estimates
of all 17 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg, whose median forecast
was for a gap of 500 million reais.  The government has cut taxes and increased spending to
revive economic growth that continues to falter amid above-target inflation. Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s lowered this
year the outlook on Brazil’s credit rating.  “While this number alone may not trigger an action, the
recent trajectory has worsened and increased the possibility of
a downgrade.” said Carlos Kawall, chief economist at Banco J.
Safra.  The worsening fiscal performance undermines central bank
efforts to rein in inflation, he said.  Swap rates on the contract maturing in January 2017, the
most traded in Sao Paulo today, rose eight basis points, or 0.13
percentage point, to 11.43 percent at 10:51 a.m. local time. The
real weakened 0.32 percent to 2.1976 against the U.S. dollar.  Negative  Standard & Poor’s in June placed  Brazil ’s rating on
negative outlook, and Moody’s this month lowered its outlook to
stable from positive. Moody’s cited Brazil’s 59 percent
government debt-to-GDP ratio versus a 45 percent median for
other sovereigns with the same rating, and both agencies
highlighted the increase in public lending.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Arnaldo Galvao in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net ;
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  