-- Brazil Soybean, Corn Exports Seen Escaping Disruption From Fire
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a   a n d   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2013-10-31T06:16:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/brazil-soybean-corn-exports-seen-escaping-disruption-from-fire.html
Grain and oilseed exports from
 Brazil , the largest soybean shipper, will probably escape
disruption from a fire at the country’s biggest port, according
to SA Commodities, a shipping agent and broker in Santos.  Some warehouses at Santos and Paranagua ports that usually
handle sugar switch to exporting corn and soybeans starting in
January, when the cane crop is between harvests. Most of the
space usually dedicated to grains and oilseeds at these depots
has already been contracted to handle those commodities, said
Nicolle de Castro, a business analyst at SA Commodities.  The blaze at Santos damaged six sugar warehouses owned by
Copersucar SA, Brazil’s biggest sweetener and ethanol-exporting
company, and destroyed 180,000 metric tons of sugar on Oct. 18.
Brazil is harvesting a record soybean crop and third-biggest in
corn, according to U.S. Department of Agriculture data.  “Other terminals may take some of Copersucar’s sugar
during the intercrop, but it’s not like they can shy away from
grains and oilseeds shipments,” de Castro said by phone from
Santos last week. “A lot of the space that will be used for
commodities other than sugar has already been contracted.”  Sugar terminals that handled grains this year are Soceppar
in Paranagua and Rumo and one owned by Noble Corp., both in
Santos, according to SA Commodities. Copersucar’s warehouses in
Santos had capacity to hold 300,000 tons of sugar and shipments
from that terminal accounted for 25 percent of Santos sweetener
exports, estimates Codesp, the state-controlled port operator.
Santos is the country’s biggest port followed by Paranagua.  Diverted Shipment  Copersucar’s sugar cargoes that were on the road heading to
Santos were diverted after the fire to Rumo, a neighboring
terminal owned by Cosan SA Industria & Comercio, Sao Paulo-based
Cosan said on Oct. 18. An average of 10 vessels were loaded with
sugar every month at Copersucar’s facilities, de Castro said. A
sugar ship usually carries about 50,000 tons.  While Rumo may take as much as 150,000 tons of Copersucar’s
sugar, it only loaded one soybean vessel earlier this year with
61,000 tons, she said. The terminal owned by Noble handled 17
grain and oilseeds vessels from January to May, loading 857,802
tons, according to SA Commodities. Soceppar handled 12 ships and
loaded 513,000 tons of grains and oilseeds from March to May,
data from the company showed.  The grain and oilseed exports from the three sugar
terminals were 2.2 percent of Brazil’s total shipments of corn
and soybeans in 2012-13, USDA and SA Commodities data show.
Brazil will harvest 88 million tons of soybeans in 2013-14 which
started there this month, 7.3 percent more than last year, USDA
estimates. The corn crop begun in March will be 72 million tons,
11 percent smaller than last year, the data show.  September Exports  In September, Brazil  exported  3.4 million tons of corn, up
from 3.1 million tons a year earlier, according to government
data compiled by Bloomberg. Soybean shipments rose to 3.5
million tons from 1.68 million tons, the data show.  Shipments of corn, soybeans and soybean meal from Brazil
were about 10 million tons a month at the peak this year, said
Chris Gadd, an analyst in  London  at  Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG) ,
 Australia ’s biggest investment bank.  “Brazil’s export program won’t hit peak for soybeans,
soymeal and corn until April of next year, so there’s a good
long while still,” Gadd said. “As they are only exporting corn
at the moment, there is some spare port capacity at the
present.”  Sugar prices dropped 6.1 percent this year in  New York 
while corn fell 38 percent and soybeans declined 9.4 percent in
 Chicago .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  