-- BT Earnings Fall Less Than Estimated on Costs of Sport Channels
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-10-31T10:30:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/bt-earnings-beat-estimates-as-sport-channels-attract-customers.html
BT Group Plc (BT/A) , the biggest U.K. phone
company, reported a smaller-than-projected drop in profit before
some items after adding subscribers to its new sports channels.  Second-quarter earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization fell 3.6 percent to 1.43 billion
pounds ($2.29 billion) excluding some items, the London-based
company said in a statement today. Analysts had  projected  Ebitda
of 1.41 billion pounds, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  More than 2 million customers have signed up for BT Sport,
and most were existing clients, Chief Executive Officer Gavin Patterson said on a call. BT is investing 1 billion pounds over
three years in rights alone for the BT Sport and ESPN channels
it began broadcasting on Aug. 1. The channels, which compete
with those of  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY) , are free for
customers who sign up for Internet packages.  “They have to do it, though I think it’ll be more
expensive than people think, because otherwise they don’t have
the tools to compete with Sky at home,” said Guy Peddy, a
London-based analyst for Macquarie Bank Ltd. who rates the
shares “underperform.”  BT rose 1.7 percent to 375.7 pence in London trading at
10:28 a.m. The  shares  have advanced 63 percent this year, giving
the company a market value of 29.7 billion pounds.  EE Agreement  The “vast majority” of the existing broadband customers
who signed up for BT sport have renewed contracts, “so you
don’t actually see all of the benefit of that in the current
quarter,” Patterson said on the call.  BT signed a wholesale agreement with EE, the biggest
mobile-phone service provider in the U.K., to offer mobile
services to its business customers. That accord, in conjunction
with fourth-generation mobile spectrum that BT acquired this
year, could result in some “very interesting propositions” for
consumers as well, Patterson said. The company doesn’t currently
offer mobile-phone service for non-business subscribers.  Revenue was little changed at 4.49 billion pounds in the
quarter. Analysts had estimated sales of 4.45 billion pounds.  BT is cutting costs including capital spending and labor
expenses to maintain Ebitda as it builds up its television
offerings. Adjusted earnings per share rose 2 percent to 6
pence, beating analysts’ 5.5 pence estimate.  Cost Cuts  “We still have inefficiencies in the business; we have a
long way to go,” Chief Financial Officer Tony Chanmugam said in
an interview today on Bloomberg TV. “We can procure better,
make better contracts.”  The company said it expects revenue, excluding payments for
carrying other companies’ calls on its network, to improve this
fiscal year. Adjusted Ebitda will be 6 billion pounds to 6.1
billion pounds this year and as much as 6.3 billion pounds next
year, the company said. Analysts in a Bloomberg survey had
forecast 6.04 billion pounds in Ebitda this year and 6.21
billion pounds next year.  Patterson became chief executive officer in September when
his predecessor, Ian Livingston, left to take a post as U.K.
minister of state for trade and investment. Patterson, who
joined BT in 2004, was previously head of BT’s retail unit,
helping to create the TV and high-speed Internet businesses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  