-- Canada Stocks Trim Best Monthly Gain in 2 Years as Miners Slump
-- B y   A u b r e y   P r i n g l e
-- 2013-10-31T20:47:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/canada-stocks-drop-as-metals-miners-slump-amid-stimulus-concern.html
Canadian stocks fell, trimming the
benchmark gauge’s best monthly gain in two years, as  miners 
dropped on concern the Federal Reserve may taper stimulus sooner
than anticipated and investors assessed corporate results.  Endeavour Silver Corp. and China Gold International
Resources Corp. each dropped more than 7 percent as prices for
the precious metals retreated. Valeant Pharmaceuticals
International Inc. sank 3.7 percent after lowering its full-year
revenue forecast. Bombardier Inc. slid the most in more than
four years after posting a quarterly profit that missed
analysts’ estimates.  The  Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index (SPTSX)  lost 94.07
points, or 0.7 percent, to 13,361.26 at 4 p.m. in Toronto. The
benchmark Canadian equity gauge rose 4.5 percent in October to
cap its fourth straight monthly gain.  “There’s a slight possibility they could start tapering
off a little bit in December, so the market is reacting
negatively to that,” Paul Gardner, portfolio manager at Avenue
Investment Management, said by phone from Toronto. He helps
manage C$300 million ($290 million). “Earnings season is
decent. Nothing stellar but nothing horrible.”  The U.S. central bank yesterday maintained $85 billion in
monthly bond purchases, saying that while the economy shows
signs of “underlying strength” it needs to see more evidence
of sustainable improvement before scaling back.  Taper Timing  Economists at Citigroup Inc. and Barclays Plc said
yesterday’s policy statement opens the possibility of reduced
bond purchases as soon as December. The odds of a taper in
January rose to 45 percent, from 25 percent before the decision,
according to Citigroup. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg Oct.
17-18 had predicted the Fed would pare stimulus in March.  In  Canada ,  gross domestic product  grew faster than
economists forecast in August on record extraction of oil and
natural gas. Output is on pace to quicken to about a 2.5 percent
annualized pace this quarter according to economists at CIBC
World Markets and TD Securities, the fastest since a 6.2 percent
gain two years ago.  The Bank of Canada last week predicted third-quarter growth
at a 1.8 percent pace, after it slowed to 1.7 percent in the
April-to-June period on energy exports and business investment.  Materials Slump  Nine of 10  industries  in the benchmark gauge declined. The
S&P/TSX Materials Index plunged 2.9 percent, the most in six
weeks, as the price of gold headed for the biggest loss in
almost three weeks and silver slumped the most in more than a
month.  Endeavour Silver plunged 8.3 percent to C$4.33, its biggest
drop in more than a month, and China Gold fell 7 percent to
C$2.80, pacing declines among mining companies.  Barrick Gold Corp. fell 5.8 percent to C$20.28. The company
said it will temporarily suspend construction at its $8.5
billion Pascua-Lama mine on the Argentina-Chile border as the
world’s largest gold producer tries to conserve cash after
prices slumped. The miner also reported quarterly results that
topped estimates.  After the market closed, Barrick said it will sell about $3
billion in shares and use the proceeds to pay down debt.  Barrick was among  14 members  of the S&P/TSX scheduled to
report third-quarter results today.  Quarterly Results  Valeant Pharmaceuticals dropped 3.7 percent to C$110.15,
the biggest drop since August. Canada’s largest pharmaceutical
company now expects full-year revenue of as much as $5.59
billion. Its prior forecast topped out at $6.2 billion.  Bombardier slid more than 10 percent to C$4.74, its
steepest slide since March 2009. The world’s third-largest
planemaker delivered fewer aircraft and collected less revenue
in the last quarter.  First Quantum Minerals Ltd. added 2.3 percent to C$19.78,
the highest level since March. The miner said third-quarter
production beat estimates and raised the upper end of its
estimated gold production for 2013. The company lowered its
expected cost of production for copper and nickel.  Stantec Inc. jumped 6.6 percent, the most in the benchmark
index, to a record C$61.96. The engineering services firm’s
earnings and revenue topped analyst estimates.  Methanex Corp. (MX)  climbed 4.4 percent to C$60.47. The methanol
maker reported higher earnings and said demand for its products
remains “healthy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aubrey Pringle in  New York  at 
 apringle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  