-- Canada August GDP Exceeds Forecast on Oil and Gas Output
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2013-10-31T14:19:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/canada-august-gdp-exceeds-forecast-on-oil-and-gas-output.html
Canada ’s  gross domestic product  grew
faster than economists forecast in August on record extraction
of oil and natural gas, putting the economy on track for its
fastest quarterly expansion in two years.  Output rose 0.3 percent to an annualized C$1.59 trillion
($1.52 trillion),  Statistics Canada  said today in Ottawa,
beating the 0.1 median forecast in a Bloomberg economist  survey .  Growth is on pace to quicken to about a 2.5 percent
annualized pace this quarter according to economists at  CIBC
World Markets  and TD Securities, the fastest since a 6.2 percent
gain two years ago. That would be enough to reduce what the  Bank
of Canada  last week called “significant” slack in the economy,
which led policy makers to drop language about raising  interest
rates .  “It’s still going to be a long time before the output gap
closes,” said  Mark Chandler , head of fixed-income strategy at
Royal Bank of Canada’s RBC Capital Markets unit in Toronto. “We
still need more momentum” from industries besides energy, he
said.  Oil and gas extraction rose 2.8 percent in August to a
 record  C$97.6 billion, Statistics Canada said. Other industries
made a more modest contribution to growth during the month, with
wholesaling rising 0.4 percent and manufacturing falling 0.3
percent.  Economic Slack  The Canadian dollar rose 0.4 percent to C$1.0438 per  U.S.
dollar  at 10:16 a.m. in Toronto. Yesterday, it touched C$1.0497
per U.S. dollar, the weakest in almost two months. One dollar
buys 95.80 U.S. cents.  Government bonds  were little changed,
with the benchmark 10-year yielding 2.41 percent.  The Bank of Canada last week predicted third-quarter growth
at a 1.8 percent pace, after it slowed to 1.7 percent in the
April-to-June period on energy exports and business investment.
Governor Stephen Poloz last week kept his key interest rate at 1
percent and said slack in the economy will persist until around
the end of 2015.  “While this is certainly a welcome surprise, the Bank of
Canada will need to see continued momentum before changing
policy tack,”  Benjamin Reitzes , a senior economist at BMO
Capital Markets in Toronto, wrote in a note to clients.  From a year earlier, GDP grew by 2.0 percent in August,
Statistics Canada said, accelerating from July’s revised 1.5
percent.  Other economic indicators suggest a slow expansion,
including inflation that’s close to the bottom of the central
bank’s 1 percent to 3 percent target range and a reduced pace of
job growth this year.  Statistics Canada in a separate report said average  weekly
earnings  of non-farm payroll employees rose 1.3 percent in
August from a year earlier while the average number of hours
worked fell to 32.9 from 33.1 over that period. The number of
workers on payrolls rose 0.3 percent in August from July, or by
51,300.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  