-- Carbon Curbs Haven’t Spurred Production Exodus, EU Study Shows
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2013-10-31T11:53:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/carbon-curbs-haven-t-spurred-production-exodus-eu-study-shows.html
No businesses in Europe relocated
production to regions without greenhouse-gas emission curbs
between 2005 and 2012, according to a study for the European
Commission on a process known as carbon leakage.  “We found no evidence for any carbon leakage” in the past
two trading periods of the European Union’s emissions program,
said Ecorys, the Rotterdam, Netherlands-based consultancy that
wrote the  study  published on the EU’s website. “However we
think there are indications that this can change in the third
period” that started this year, Ecorys said.  The commission, the 28-nation EU’s regulatory arm, is
analyzing the impact of its cap-and-trade program on
competitiveness before reviewing a list of industries eligible
for special protection next year. Under the EU trading system,
emission permits are allocated or auctioned to polluters, which
must surrender them to cover discharges or pay fines.  The Alliance of Energy Intensive Industries argues that
even the region’s most energy-efficient factories will need to
buy allowances, placing them at a disadvantage compared with
competitors outside the EU, Alain Mathuren, an Alliance
spokesman in Brussels, said Oct. 1. The group includes chemical,
cement, steel, petroleum and fertilizer lobbies.  EU carbon prices have fallen 76 percent since 2009, when
policy makers agreed the list of sectors that need to be
protected against relocation. Emission allowances for this year
slumped to a record low of 2.46 euros ($3.36) a metric ton in
April amid a record surplus of permits aggravated by a
recession.  Minor Factor  “In some, but not all, assessed sectors we observe
increasing imports and/or decreasing exports,” Ecorys said.
“However, the reasons for these developments can mainly be
found in global demand developments and input price
differences.”  While industry considers carbon costs one reason for
relocation of investment, they are a “minor factor” compared
with other drivers, according to the study. Investments outside
 Europe  have been driven by demand in emerging countries, which
offer incentives to attract new industry, Ecorys said.  In the first two trading periods of the EU’s carbon trading
program, emitters got most of their permits for free before
Europe moved to auctioning allowances starting this year.
Sectors on the carbon leakage list get a bigger proportion of
free allowances in 2013-20.  As nations worldwide aim to reach a deal in 2015 on a
global climate-protection accord for 2020 and beyond, Europe is
debating its emission-reduction goals for 2030 and rules to
strengthen the region’s carbon market.  “On top of the main drivers of production location, such
as a shift in demand and higher energy prices, high carbon
prices –- if only prevalent in Europe -– will make global
competition a little bit harder for European industry,” Ecorys
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  