-- China’s CIC Said to Approve Shenyin & Wanguo Buying Hong Yuan
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-31T11:15:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/china-s-cic-said-to-approve-shenyin-wanguo-buying-hong-yuan.html
China  Investment Corp., the
sovereign fund that holds the government’s stakes in banks and
brokerages, gave its approval for  Shenyin & Wanguo (218)  Securities
Co. to buy  Hong Yuan Securities Co. (000562) , a person with direct
knowledge of the matter said.  Hong Yuan said in September that Vice Chairman Hu Qiang and
Vice President Zhou Dong were being investigated by Chinese
police, without giving more details. That probe prompted the
acquisition talks, said the person, who asked not to be
identified because the matter is private. The brokerages are now
seeking approval from regulators including the China Securities
Regulatory Commission, the person said.  The China Securities Journal and Caixin magazine reported
on the transaction earlier today.  The acquisition would add to steps China has taken to weed
out wrongdoing in financial markets. That campaign has included
fining Ping An Securities Co. 76.7 million  yuan  ($12.6 million)
for failed due diligence in an initial offering it underwrote
and a yearlong freeze on domestic IPOs. It also coincides with
President Xi Jinping’s campaign against official corruption,
which he’s said is a threat to Communist Party rule.  Central Huijin Investment Ltd., a unit of CIC, owns 55
percent of Shenyin & Wanguo, according to Huijin’s website.
China Jianyin Investment Ltd., which owns a 60 percent stake in
Hong Yuan, is wholly-owned by Huijin.  Shenyin & Wanguo’s Hong Kong-listed unit rose 7 percent to
HK$2.76 today, the biggest gain in four months. Trading of Hong
Yuan’s shares was suspended starting yesterday, when the
brokerage said it received notice from its controlling
shareholder of a matter that could affect its stock price.  Calls to Shenyin & Wanguo’s media department went
unanswered today. CIC and Hong Yuan’s media departments didn’t
respond to e-mails from  Bloomberg News  seeking comment.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Steven Yang in Beijing at 
 kyang74@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  