-- China Developers Rise Amid Policy Speculation: Shanghai Mover
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-31T04:57:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/china-developers-rise-amid-policy-speculation-shanghai-mover.html
Chinese developers rose by the most
in more than a month in  Shanghai  after a meeting by the ruling
Communist Party fueled speculation that the authorities will
refrain from imposing further property curbs.  An  index  tracking Shanghai-listed real estate companies
jumped as much as 2.9 percent, the most since Sept. 23, and was
up 1.6 percent as of 12:13 p.m. local time.  China Vanke Co. (000002) , the
biggest developer by market value traded on the nation’s
exchanges, climbed 2.4 percent to 9.30  yuan  in Shenzhen after
surging as much as 6.3 percent, the most since July 10.  A government statement yesterday, about an Oct. 29 study
session on housing by the ruling party’s decision-making
Politburo, didn’t mention home prices, triggering speculation
policy makers won’t impose further property curbs, according to
Credit Suisse Group AG. Premier  Li Keqiang  has refrained from
adding to restrictions even as housing prices have kept rising
after his predecessor  Wen Jiabao  in March stepped up a three-year campaign to make housing affordable.  “Many industry experts and developers I talked to believe
this means the central government will refrain from controlling
the private housing market,” Jinsong Du, a Hong Kong-based
property analyst at Credit Suisse, wrote in an e-mailed note
today. “This indeed sounds positive in the near term.”  Home Supply  China  requires a housing system under which the government
covers basic social housing while “multiple levels” of other
housing needs are mainly met by the market, President  Xi Jinping 
said in the statement posted on the central government’s
website. The government will try its best to increase home
supplies and seeks to meet its target of building 36 million
units of affordable housing in the five years ended 2015,
according to the statement.  Home prices  in China’s four major cities jumped the most
since January 2011 last month, as prices climbed in 69 of the 70
cities the government tracks.  China’s economic growth accelerated to 7.8 percent in the
third quarter, reversing a two-quarter slowdown. Still, the
expansion may slow to 7.1 percent next year from 7.6 percent
this year as the government focuses on rebalancing the economy
and implementing reforms, Barclays Plc analysts Chang Jian and
Joey Chew wrote in a research note on Oct. 18.  China Vanke said Oct. 20 that third-quarter profit rose 18
percent after a 43 percent jump in revenue as stronger demand
from homebuyers defied government curbs.  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Zhang Dingmin in Beijing at 
 dzhang14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  