-- China Slowdown May Hurt Resource-Rich Angola, Congo: IMF
-- B y   R e n e   V o l l g r a a f f
-- 2013-10-31T08:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/china-slowdown-may-hurt-resource-rich-angola-congo-imf.html
Angola , South Africa, the Republic
of Congo, Equatorial Guinea and the  Democratic Republic  of Congo
are most at risk in Africa from a slowdown in  China’s economy , 
the  International Monetary Fund  said.  Estimates from the Washington-based lender show that a 1
percentage point increase in China’s domestic investment growth
leads to a 0.8 percentage point rise in the export growth rate
of the five resource-rich African nations, the IMF said in a
report today.  China has become Africa’s biggest trading partner in recent
years and a key provider of investment and aid amid surging
demand for commodities such as oil, copper and platinum to
sustain growth in the world’s second-largest economy. A slowdown
in global demand this year and capital outflows from  emerging
markets  have prompted China to pare its growth ambitions. The
government is targeting annual expansion of 7 percent this
decade, compared with the 10.5 percent average pace of the last
10 years.  “Rising linkages with China have supported growth but also
expose sub-Saharan African countries to potentially negative
spillovers from China if its growth slows or the composition of
its demand changes,” the IMF said in its Regional Economic
Outlook for Africa.  The IMF’s estimates, based on data from the past 15 years,
show that a 1 percentage point increase in China’s real domestic
fixed asset investment has increased sub-Saharan Africa’s export
growth rate on average by 0.6 percentage point.  Platinum Exports  Angola is sub-Saharan Africa’s biggest oil producer after
Nigeria, while  South Africa  is the world’s top platinum producer
and also exports commodities such as  iron ore  and coal to China.  Sub-Saharan Africa’s economy will probably expand 5 percent
this year and 6 percent in 2014, the IMF said. China’s gross
domestic product is forecast to increase 7.6 percent in 2013 and
7.3 percent in 2014, the lender said in its World Economic
Outlook on Oct. 8.  A sustained deceleration in the economies of sub-Saharan
Africa’s new emerging-market partners, particularly China,
“could pose some challenges for sub-Saharan Africa as it
attempts to sustain its own vigorous growth, especially in the
context of subdued prospects for overall global growth,” the
IMF said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rene Vollgraaff in Johannesburg at 
 rvollgraaff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  