-- Japan Denies Disrupting Chinese Military Exercises in Pacific
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-11-01T05:57:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/china-files-protest-as-japanese-ships-disrupt-military-exercises.html
Japan  denied disrupting recent
Chinese military exercises in the west Pacific Ocean that
prompted an official protest, the latest friction between Asia’s
two biggest economies embroiled in a territorial dispute.  “It is not true that we carried out dangerous actions that
interfered with the Chinese Navy’s exercises,” Deputy Chief
Cabinet Secretary Katsunobu Kato told reporters in Tokyo today,
adding that Japan had lodged a counter-protest with China. “We
are paying close attention to the movements of the Chinese armed
forces, including those of Chinese military vessels in seas
around Japan,” Kato said.  The diplomatic row came as Japan today began an annual
large-scale military exercise involving its ground, sea and air
forces. The exercise, which runs to Nov. 18, will this year be
focused on island defense around Kyushu and Okinawa, according
to a document issued by the Self-Defense Forces last month.  China  lodged a  protest  yesterday with Japan, saying its
ships entered the area of China’s military exercises and
disrupted its drills. The Chinese Navy announced its scheduled
training there from Oct. 24 to Nov. 1, while the Japanese
entered the area on Oct. 25 and left three days later, the
Defense Ministry said in a statement on its website yesterday.  Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe said earlier this week
he wouldn’t permit China to use force to resolve territorial
spats, as the renewed presence of Chinese aircraft near disputed
islands in the East China Sea led Japan to dispatch  fighter
jets . Tensions between the neighbors increased after Japan’s
September 2012 purchase of three islands also claimed by China,
with damage to trade and tourism ties and no summit between the
leaders of the two countries for about 18 months.  China yesterday urged the Japanese to take action to
“correct its mistakes” and stop its interference with normal
military activities, the ministry said in the statement. It also
said it reserved the right to take further action.  The Japanese training will include an amphibious landing on
the uninhabited atoll of Okidaitojima, 400 kilometers (250
miles) southeast of Okinawa. A helicopter carrier will take part
in the exercise, along with 34,000 personnel, according to a
defense forces official who declined to give his name in line
with military policy.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Alexandra Ho in Shanghai at 
 aho113@bloomberg.net ;
Isabel Reynolds in  Tokyo  at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  