-- China Money Rates Slide as PBOC Adds Cash, Seasonal Factors Wane
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-31T08:38:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/china-money-rates-slide-as-pboc-adds-cash-seasonal-factors-wane.html
China ’s money-market rates fell and
 interest-rate swaps  retreated from the highest level since June
as the central bank added cash to the financial system for the
second time this week.  The People’s Bank of China conducted 16 billion yuan ($2.6
billion) of 14-day reverse-repurchase contracts today at a yield
of 4.3 percent, according to a statement on the website. That
followed an injection of 13 billion yuan via seven-day reverse
repos at 4.1 percent on Oct. 29. Commercial banks hoard cash
toward month-end to meet liquidity requirements set by the
central bank and corporate tax payments fell due in October,
locking up funds.  The  seven-day repurchase rate , a gauge of financing
availability in the banking system, declined 50 basis points, or
0.50 percentage point, to 5.05 percent in Shanghai, according to
a daily fixing by the National Interbank Funding Center. The
 overnight repo rate  fell 53 basis points to 4.68 percent.
They’re still up 85 basis points and 150 basis points,
respectively, for the month.  “The fact that rates dropped even before the announcement
of reverse repos indicates waning seasonal factors are the main
driver,” said Cheng Qingsheng, an analyst at Evergrowing Bank
Co. in Shanghai. “However, the central bank may continue
conducting a small amount of reverse repos next week just to
ensure policy continuity and calm sentiment.”  PBOC Injection  The central bank’s money-market operations added a net 29.1
billion  yuan  to the financial system this week, after rolling
over 5.9 billion yuan of the 6 billion yuan of three-year notes
that matured on Oct. 28, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That compares with net  withdrawals  totaling 102.5
billion yuan in the last two weeks.  The one-year  interest-rate swap , the fixed payment needed
to receive the floating seven-day repo, dropped eight basis
points to 4.16 percent as of 4:36 p.m. in Shanghai. It has
climbed 19 basis points in October, the most since June, and
touched a four-month high of 4.27 percent yesterday.  The yield on the government’s benchmark 10-year bonds
declined five basis points to 4.18 percent, according to data
provided by the Interbank Funding Center. The yield on the one-year notes fell 20 basis points to 3.90 percent.  Money-market rates may decline further given that about 1
trillion yuan of government spending is expected to be allocated
over the next two months, according to Kewei Yang, head of Asia-Pacific interest-rate strategy at Morgan Stanley in Hong Kong.
The central bank may sell repurchase agreements or bills in the
next two months to maintain a “neutral” policy environment, he
said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Sun in  Shanghai  at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  