-- China Police Chasing Seven Uighurs for Tiananmen Crash
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-31T10:33:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/china-police-chasing-seven-uighurs-for-tiananmen-crash.html
Chinese police detained five people
for suspected links to the crashing of a vehicle into tourists
in Beijing and called it a terrorist attack, a sign that
violence in restive Xinjiang is spilling into other areas.  Police found knives and religious material in the sport-utility vehicle, which was driven by a man whose mother and wife
were inside when it crashed near  Tiananmen Square , the official
Xinhua News Agency reported yesterday. The incident, which left
all three plus two tourists from the  Philippines  and the Chinese
province of Guangdong dead, was “carefully planned, organized
and premeditated,” Xinhua reported, citing the police.  The attack occurred a few blocks from China’s Zhongnanhai
leadership compound around two weeks before the Communist Party
gathers to discuss economic-policy reforms. Police said the car
had a license plate from the western region of Xinjiang, which
has experienced sporadic protests by ethnic Uighurs against
Chinese rule.  Police captured the five suspects within 10 hours of the
Oct. 28 crash with help from authorities in Xinjiang, Xinhua
reported. They were identified by names that aren’t typical of
Han Chinese, without being described as Uighurs. The suspects
said they knew Usmen Hasan, the driver of the car, Xinhua added.  Bomb Threats  In a separate incident, Chinese police detained a person
who made bomb threats against several airlines today, Xinhua
said. A Beijing Capital Airlines flight from Changsha in central
 China  to the eastern city of Hangzhou was forced to land after a
threat, airline official Chen Qian said by phone. Xiamen
Airlines and Sichuan Airlines also received threats, officials
said.  The fact the SUV attack occurred in the center of Beijing
shows how authorities may struggle to confine the Uighur issue,
said Dru Gladney, a professor of anthropology at Pomona College
in Claremont,  California  who studies Xinjiang and the Uighurs.  “Uighurs are in every part of China, so it shouldn’t
surprise that something should hit Beijing,” Gladney said by
phone. “There is clearly a simmering discontent and it’s going
to boil over until the situation changes.”  Xinjiang Violence  While about 90 percent of China’s population is ethnic Han,
more than 40 percent of Xinjiang’s 22 million people are
Uighurs, some of whom have protested the government’s decades-long policy of encouraging Han migration to the area, as well as
restrictions on religious freedom. Xinjiang was the scene of
clashes in 2009 between the mostly Muslim Uighur minority and
Han that left almost 200 people dead.  The 2009 violence was sparked by a brawl in a toy factory
in southern Guangdong, Gladney said.  The  World Uyghur Congress , a Munich-based group that calls
for independence for Xinjiang, said it is concerned the incident
will incite a “fierce state crackdown” in the region,
according to an Oct. 29 statement posted on its website.  “The Chinese government will not hesitate to concoct a
version of the incident in Beijing, so as to further impose
repressive measures on the Uyghur people,” Congress President
Rebiya Kadeer said in the statement, using an alternative
spelling for the ethnic group.  Respecting Law  Punishing terrorists based on law is necessary to uphold
social order and basic  human rights , Foreign Ministry
spokeswoman Hua Chunying said today in response to a question
about the incident. China is against connecting terrorism to any
ethnic group or religion, she told reporters in Beijing.  “Some people linking a small group of extremists and
violent people to China’s policy on ethnic groups and religion
and using this as an excuse to attack China’s policy is wrong
and has motivations,” Hua said.  The SUV plowed into a crowd of tourists about noon on Oct.
28 at Tiananmen Gate, near where the portrait of  Mao Zedong 
hangs, crashed into a guard rail and burst into flames. The
attackers set the SUV on fire after the crash, state broadcaster
 China Central Television  reported yesterday, citing closed-circuit images. Philippine and Japanese nationals were among the
40 injured, according to Xinhua.  Security has remained tight in central Beijing, with police
regularly patrolling the square, where student protests in 1989
advocated democracy and an end to official corruption.
Individuals and their belongings are subject to security
screenings before entering.  Beijing Attacks  In March 1997, an explosion from a home-made bomb ripped
through a public bus just west of the square in the Xidan
section of the city. In 2009 three people inside a car set
themselves on fire a few blocks from the square.  In July, China ordered paramilitary troops to patrol around
the clock in Xinjiang before the anniversary of the 2009
clashes, after an outbreak of violence in the region’s Lukqun
township left 35 people dead on June 26.  China views groups pushing for greater independence as
seditious, and authorities have blamed past violence on
religious extremists trained in  Pakistan  at camps run by the
East Turkestan Islamic Movement. China said the June violence,
in which attackers armed with knives killed 24, was linked to
overseas terrorist forces.  “This is first time in many years that an incident
involving Uighurs has taken place in the capital,” Willy Lam
Wo-Lap, a professor at the  Chinese University  of  Hong Kong , said
by phone. “It is a loss of face for the police and state
security. So they don’t want to dramatize this too much
considering the large sums of money they have devoted to
maintaining the security apparatus.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  