-- China’s Airlines Get Bomb Threats After Arrests in Beijing Crash
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 2013-10-31T17:44:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/china-s-airlines-get-bomb-threats-after-arrests-in-beijing-crash.html
At least three Chinese airlines
received bomb threats yesterday as five people were detained for
suspected links to a deadly car crash in Beijing which police
called a terrorist attack.  Beijing Capital Airlines diverted one flight and  China
Southern Airlines Co. (1055) ’s unit Xiamen Airlines Co. and Sichuan
Airlines Co. each delayed a flight, officials from the companies
said. One person suspected of calling in the threats was
detained by police, the official Xinhua News Agency reported.
 China  Southern also diverted a flight, Sean Cui, a media
official said, declining to specify reasons.  Police have arrested at least four people for bomb hoaxes
against Chinese airlines in the past year. The latest threats
came three days after a sport-utility vehicle crashed near
Tiannanmen Square in Beijing, killing two tourists along with
the three people inside the vehicle.  The attack occurred a few blocks from China’s Zhongnanhai
leadership compound and comes before the Communist Party’s
Central Committee gathers to discuss economic-policy reforms
later this month. Police said the car had a license plate from
the western region of Xinjiang, which has experienced sporadic
protests by ethnic Uighurs against Chinese rule.  The Beijing Capital Airlines flight from central China’s
Changsha bound for the eastern city of Hangzhou was forced to
land after the bomb threat, airline official Chen Qian said by
phone. Police are investigating, she said.  Xiamen Air and Sichuan Airlines found nothing unusual after
making inspections, according to Qiu Dapeng and Cai Chao, media
officials for the respective carriers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmine Wang in  Hong Kong  at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  