-- China’s Smog Can’t Compete With London’s Pea Soup
-- B y   S t e p h e n   M i h m
-- 2013-10-31T22:32:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/china-s-smog-can-t-compete-with-london-s-pea-soup.html
China ’s already staggering pollution
problems got worse this week as a  shroud of smog  engulfed
northern industrial cities.  In Harbin, which has a population of 11 million, the PM2.5
index -- a measure of the concentration of microscopic
particulate matter in the air -- broke 1,000. The  World Health
Organization  considers any reading of more than 20 to be a cause
for concern, and levels above 300 to be hazardous.  Like so much having to do with  China’s economy , this
environmental degradation seems unprecedented. It isn’t. The
disasters in  China  today are simply the latest in a series of
public-health catastrophes that have accompanied
industrialization elsewhere. In fact, China’s contemporary
pollution problems probably fall short of records first
established in the U.K. and the U.S.  One of the defining features of industrial revolutions past
and present is the shift to fossil fuels such as coal,
particularly in urban centers. Much like contemporary China,
 England  became an economic powerhouse by relying on cheap coal
to power its factories as well as to heat and illuminate the
cities that would become crucibles of industrial capitalism:
Manchester, Birmingham and above all, London.  Cheap Coal  These cities became synonymous with coal smoke. In  London ,
pollution had become a serious problem by the 17th century, as a
burgeoning population and a growing number of workshops and
homes dependent on cheap coal turned the air black. John Evelyn,
a confidant of King Charles II, correctly identified the problem
in a  pamphlet , “Fumifugium: Or, the Inconvenience of the Aer,
and Smoake of London Dissipated,” published in 1661.  Coal, he averred, was a “subterrany fuel” that had “a kind
of virulent or arsenical vapour arising from it” and killed
many. Evelyn proposed moving industry out of the city as well as
planting massive gardens with “odiferous flowers” that would
“tinge the air” and thereby mask the pollution.  Evelyn’s proposal changed nothing. London and other
industrial cities became increasingly polluted with coal smoke,
which on occasion combined with heavy fog to create a blinding,
“pestilential atmosphere.” While Parliament and local
governments passed laws seeking to regulate smoke emissions,
such efforts faltered in the face of lack enforcement and the
explosive growth of the cities. Every year more coal fires
burned in London and other industrial cities, and the air
darkened.  In 1873, the first of several “black fogs” descended on
London. In December, the gas lights illuminating the capital’s
streets vanished in a smoky haze; horse-drawn cabs had to be led
by men carrying torches who proceeded a foot at a time.
Visibility was a few feet at most, and many Londoners drowned
after they mistakenly walked off the docks into the river
Thames.  But the real body count was caused by the air itself.
Tabulating the deaths in the wake of the disaster, the Lancet
realized that the city’s death rate had spiked, with more than
700 people perishing from respiratory ailments attributed to the
smoky fog. Sadly, this was just the beginning: thousands more
died in blinding clouds in 1879 and 1880. A British
correspondent writing to the  New York  Times in 1880 reported
that London had been plunged into a “week of night,” and that
the fog had “poisoned some our citizens to death… it has set
pedestrians crying aloud in the streets lest they should be run
over, and they have not always cried successfully.”  Jeopardizing Growth  In the wake of these disasters, reformers came together to
form the  Smoke Abatement Committee , which labored in vain for
decades to combat air pollution. Factory owners, never mind
members of Parliament, were reluctant to jeopardize economic
growth by curbing pollution, even if that meant sending
innumerable citizens to an early grave.  Worse, statutes on the books meant to curtail pollutants
proved ineffectual, thanks to some curious loopholes. London’s
 Public Health Act of 1891 , for example, declared that “any
chimney sending forth black smoke might be deemed a nuisance,”
and subject to elimination. But when the government sued
polluters under the terms of the act, the defendants
demonstrated to the satisfaction of the court that their
emissions weren’t really black -- they were more of a dark brown
color. The smoke continued.  London was hardly alone: The second-largest city,
Manchester, was the heart of a much larger industrial
conurbation that included Birmingham, Liverpool and Sheffield.
Much of the region remained cloaked in sulfurous smoke year-round. In 1888, the Manchester Guardian, hardly a bastion of
radicalism at this time, said the city’s “appalling death rate”
was caused by “the smoke demon and noxious vapours,” which were
“killing downright our boys and girls.”  Attempts to improve life by planting parks and gardens
yielded little: By century’s end, reports the historian  Stephen
Mosely , “Manchester was virtually barren.”  Some creatures even adapted to the changed environment. The
peppered moth, for example, which was white with gray flecks --
presumably to help conceal it from predators when it rested on
tree trunks -- evolved via a process that scientists dubbed
“ industrial melanism .” In the space of a few decades in the late
19th century, moths in the industrial Midlands turned almost
entirely black. A genetic mutation responsible for the change in
color conferred an evolutionary advantage on a select group of
moths, enabling them to blend into the smoke-stained background
more readily than their mottled peers. By the 1890s, almost 98
percent of the moths had switched colors.  Human beings had a tougher time adapting. And by the late
19th century, England was hardly alone in grappling with killer
clouds. In the U.S., industrial cities such as Pittsburgh (which
one early visitor described as  “hell with the lid taken off ”)
rivaled the big industrial centers of England. Like their
British counterparts -- and China’s industrial cities today --
Cincinnati,  St. Louis ,  Chicago  and  Cleveland  increasingly
depended heavily on soft, smoky coal to heat homes and power
factories.  Chicago Morgue  By the first decade of the 20th century, this dependence
had taken a dangerous turn, with more coal burned from 1898 to
1908 than during the preceding century. In cities such as
Chicago, breathing the air left an indelible mark. In 1900, the
Cook County Medical Examiner reported that he could readily tell
via an autopsy whether the deceased had lived in Chicago: When
he cut open the lungs of city dwellers “to lay the hand across
the new-cut surface…would blacken the palm almost as black as to
put it wet into a pan of soot.”  Such revelations appalled many. But change came slowly. In
fact, when it came to killer smog, the worst was yet to come.  (Stephen Mihm, an associate professor of history at the
 University of Georgia , is a contributor to the Ticker.  Follow 
him on Twitter. This article is the first of two on the history
of smog.)
 