-- Construction Bank Agrees to Buy Majority of Brazil Bank
-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i ,   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l   a n d   G i u l i a   C a m i l l o
-- 2013-11-01T08:24:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/china-construction-agrees-to-buy-majority-of-brazil-s-bicbanco.html
China Construction Bank Corp. (939) , the
nation’s second-biggest lender by assets, agreed to pay 1.62
billion reais ($723 million) for a majority of  Brazil ’s Banco
Industrial & Comercial SA.  The 72 percent stake will include 157.4 million voting
shares and 24.7 million preferred shares, which Construction
Bank plans to buy for 8.9017 reais each, BicBanco, as the Sao
Paulo-based firm is known, said yesterday in a filing. The price
values the entire Brazilian bank at 1.16 times its book value as
of June 30, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Acquiring a lender is the easiest way for Beijing-based
Construction Bank to obtain a license in Brazil as it follows
customers to the nation, a person with direct knowledge of the
matter told  Bloomberg News  earlier this week. China and Brazil
in March agreed to establish a $30 billion currency swap line
and China National Petroleum Corp. last week won the rights to
help develop Brazil’s biggest oil discovery in the Libra field.  The Chinese lender will make an offer to buy the remaining
stock within 30 days after completion of the deal, which needs
approval by regulators in Brazil, China and the Cayman Islands.  Construction Bank rose 0.5 percent to close at HK$6.05 in
 Hong Kong , narrowing this year’s decline to 2.7 percent. The
benchmark  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  added 0.2 percent, for a gain of 2.6
percent in 2013.  Global Expansion  Chinese banks, facing a rise in domestic competition, are
accelerating global expansion as demand for offshore financial
services surges along with the growing presence of Chinese
companies in overseas markets.  Construction Bank, which added operations in countries
including Russia, Dubai and Japan this year, now has 17
subsidiaries with assets of about $120 billion in 15 nations,
according to a  statement  on the opening of its Luxembourg unit
on Oct. 31.  The acquisition of  BicBanco (BICB4) , which specializes in loans to
mid-sized companies, is Construction Bank’s first outside
mainland China since it  bought  a Hong Kong unit of American
International group Inc. for $70 million in November 2009.  Construction Bank’s bigger rival,  Industrial & Commercial
Bank of China Ltd. , is also expanding in  Latin America . Beijing-based ICBC bought 80 percent of Standard Bank Group Ltd.’s
Argentine division last year, after having opened in Peru and
received authorization to open a bank in Brazil.  Citigroup Inc. advised BicBanco on the sale, according to
the filing. Morgan Stanley is advising Construction Bank, the
person with knowledge of the matter said this week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net ;
Dakin Campbell in  New York  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net ;
Giulia Camillo in Sao Paulo at 
 gcamillo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Eichenbaum at 
 peichenbaum@bloomberg.net  