-- China Debt Solution Seen Aided by Selling Listed Shares: Economy
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-31T07:31:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/china-debt-solution-seen-aided-by-sales-of-listed-company-shares.html
China ’s swelling local-government
debt is spurring speculation that authorities could sell some of
their holdings of listed shares, estimated by UBS AG to total at
least 5 trillion  yuan  ($820 billion), to make repayments.  Partial divestment of governments’ stakes in state-owned
companies is one option to address the debt issue, said Yao Wei,
China economist at Societe Generale SA in  Hong Kong . Local
governments have already made some sales over the past two years
and repayment pressures mean that more are likely, said Chen Li,
a Shanghai-based analyst at UBS.  Officials have the option of turning to the stakes as
income from land sales falls and a forthcoming national audit,
the broadest in two years, puts a spotlight on regional
borrowing. Local-government funding was ranked as most in need
of reforms, according to a survey of analysts by  Bloomberg News 
ahead of a key Communist Party meeting next month to discuss
economic policies.  “Local governments have various entities and agencies,
from pension management bureaus to state-owned asset supervision
bodies, to hold shares,” Yao said. “One thing is for sure --
the number is in the trillions,” said Yao, who estimated the
stockpile at 3 trillion yuan as of 2011.  The benchmark Shanghai Composite  Index (SHCOMP)  fell 0.9 percent
today and is down 5.6 percent this year.  China’s National Audit Office has submitted its report on
local-government debt to the State Council and the level of
borrowings exceeds 14 trillion yuan, Caijing reported earlier
this week on its website.  Long Process  Divestment of government shares is a long-term process and
won’t be conducted in a “big bang” way, Yao said. “If local
governments come out and announce big share-sale plans, it will
send jitters through retail investors and cause stock prices to
plunge,” she said.  Chen, head of China equity research at UBS Securities, said
sales of equity stakes will “probably continue for a while.”
Governments can sell shares on the market or can tap buyers such
as private-equity companies, foreign investors or company
management, Chen said.  Zoomlion Heavy Industry Science and Technology Co. , China’s
biggest construction-equipment maker, is an example of a company
partly owned by a government. Hunan State-Owned Assets held
19.97 percent of the A-shares listed in Shenzhen as of April 2,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The government of  Hunan
province  owned 16.2 percent of Zoomlion at the end of 2012,
according to the annual report from the Changsha, Hunan-based
company.  Chongqing Stake  The largest shareholder in  Bank of Chongqing Co. , which
will begin trading next week after an initial public offering,
is the government of the southwestern Chinese city of more than
30 million people, according to the bank’s prospectus.  China in July ordered a nationwide review of local-government debt, which the National Audit Office said in 2011
totaled 10.7 trillion yuan. Former Finance Minister Xiang Huaicheng said in April the amount may be more than 20 trillion
yuan, underscoring the risks President Xi Jinping’s government
faces as the economy slows and it tackles the effects to the
financial system of a record credit boom.  Societe Generale ’s Yao said other options for dealing with
the debt include restructuring it using tools such as
securitization and having the central government assume the
debt. The audit report “will be used as the base for the debt
workout plan,” she wrote in a note today.  Japan Easing  Elsewhere in  Asia  today, the  Bank of Japan  stuck with its
campaign of unprecedented monetary easing, intended to jolt the
nation out of a 15-year deflationary malaise.  Governor Haruhiko Kuroda’s board maintained a pledge to
expand the monetary base by 60 trillion to 70 trillion yen ($711
billion) a year, matching the forecasts of all 34 economists in
a Bloomberg News survey.  Taiwan’s economy grew 1.58 percent in the third quarter
from a year earlier, the slowest pace in a year, increasing
pressure on the central bank to extend an interest-rate pause, a
report showed today.  In  Europe , German retail sales unexpectedly fell in
September from the previous month, and U.K. home prices rose by
more than estimated in October. In  North America ,  Canada  may say
the economy expanded at a slower pace in August than in July,
while the U.S. gives a weekly report on jobless claims.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  