-- Citigroup Plans First Mortgage-Bond Sale Since Financial Crisis
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2013-10-31T19:34:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/citigroup-plans-first-mortgage-bond-sale-since-financial-crisis.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , the bank rescued
with a $45 billion capital injection from taxpayers during the
financial crisis, is planning its first sale of bonds tied to
new  home loans  without government backing since the market’s
collapse in 2008.  The transaction is backed by $210 million of prime jumbo
mortgages acquired by the New York-based company’s investment
bank from lenders led by Nationstar Mortgage LLC, DBRS Ltd. said
today in a statement. The credit grader plans to assign AAA
rankings to $196.3 million of the debt.  “The ratings reflect transactional strengths that include
high quality underlying assets, well qualified borrowers and
satisfactory third-party due diligence review,” DBRS said.  Scott Helfman, a spokesman for Citigroup, declined to
comment.  While non-agency bond issuance was growing earlier this
year after halting five years ago amid tumbling  home values  and
soaring defaults, sales have slowed since July as investors
demand higher relative yields on the securities and banks seek
jumbo loans for their balance sheets. Shellpoint Partners LLC
said this month it was canceling a planned deal and would sell
the loans without packaging them into bonds.  About $12.5 billion in deals tied to new loans have been
completed this year, compared with $3.5 billion in all of 2012
and a peak of $1.2 trillion in each of 2005 and 2006, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Since the crisis, Citigroup has
helped underwrite deals by other issuers and sponsored
transactions that packaged older bonds and loans.  A weakness of the bank’s planned transactions is that
Citigroup’s “backstop” on the warranties of loan quality
provided by originators can lapse after a certain period of
time, DBRS said.  Jumbo home loans are ones larger than allowed in
government-supported programs, currently as much as $729,750 for
single-family properties in high-cost areas. For  Fannie Mae  and
Freddie Mac loans with the lowest costs for most types of
borrowers, limits range from $417,000 to $625,500.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  