-- CNH Industrial Profit Falls 11% European Truck Pricing
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 2013-10-31T13:38:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/cnh-industrial-profit-falls-11-european-truck-pricing.html
CNH Industrial NV (CNHI) , the maker of
Iveco trucks and New Holland farm tractors, said third-quarter
profit fell 11 percent as price competition hurt sales at its
commercial-vehicle unit in Europe.  Trading profit, or earnings before interest, taxes and one-time gains or costs, declined to 508 million euros ($694
million) from 570 million euros a year earlier, the Basildon,
England-based company said today in a statement. Profit at the
truck division slumped 86 percent to 15 million euros.  CNH Industrial’s shares debuted on the New York Stock
Exchange and Milan Exchange on Sept. 30 after Chairman  Sergio Marchionne  completed the merger of Turin, Italy-based Iveco
producer Fiat Industrial with its CNH agricultural- and
construction-equipment division. Fiat Industrial was spun off
from Italian carmaker  Fiat SpA (F)  in 2011.  The manufacturer said today that it’s sticking to financial
targets for this year, including a trading margin of 7.5 percent
to 8.3 percent of sales. Revenue in the quarter fell 1.5 percent
to 6.2 billion euros, and the margin amounted to 8.2 percent.
Exchange-rate shifts and spending on new technology to meet
European Union vehicle-emissions rules contributed to the profit
decline, CNH Industrial said.  Marchionne has estimated that the companies’ combination,
creating a product line that also includes Case bulldozers and
FPT ship engines, formed the world’s third-largest capital-goods
 company . CNH Industrial is based in the U.K. for tax reasons.  Both CNH Industrial and Fiat are controlled by  Exor SpA (EXO) ,
the investment company of Italy’s Agnelli family. Exor has said
it plans to keep  voting rights  in CNH Industrial in excess of 30
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  