-- Conning Boosts Muni Investments as U.S. States Stabilize
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-10-31T19:57:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/conning-boosts-muni-investments-as-u-s-states-stabilize.html
Conning, which oversees $9 billion
in municipal debt for insurance companies, says it’s boosting
its allocation to the local bonds as U.S. states’ economic
health stabilizes four years after the recession.  “With incremental dollars, we’ve been putting them toward
municipals since early this year, more than other asset
classes,” said Paul Mansour, head of Conning’s municipal-credit
research group, in a telephone interview. States are “at a more
sustainable point” with increased tax collections and bolstered
reserves, he said.  Hartford, Connecticut-based Conning is adding munis instead
of other fixed-income securities such as corporate bonds even as
concerns over rising interest rates and  Detroit ’s record
bankruptcy in July have led investors to pull $47.5 billion from
local-debt mutual funds this year, according to Lipper US Fund
Flows data.  Most of the fear over issuers’ credit quality is unfounded,
Mansour said. States have increased revenue for 15 straight
quarters, Census Bureau data show. They’ve trimmed  payrolls  to
close to the lowest level since 2004 and slowed borrowing for
projects, according to the Labor Department and Moody’s
Investors Service.  As a result, the total return on state obligations,
including interest and price change, is poised to beat the $3.7
trillion muni market for the first time since 2010, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch data show.  Washington had the biggest jump in Conning’s semiannual
rankings of state fiscal health, rising 13 levels since April to
14th.  North Dakota  and  South Dakota  ranked first and second,
respectively, unchanged from the last reading.  Weakest States  Not all states are recovering at the same pace, Conning
said.  Connecticut , Illinois and  Kentucky  have the weakest fiscal
health, mostly unchanged from April. Illinois has the worst-funded state pension, followed by Kentucky and Connecticut,
according to the report.  Puerto Rico , the U.S. commonwealth with near-junk credit
grades and $70 billion of debt, would be rated even lower than
those states, the report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  