-- Copper Drops for First Time in a Week on Fed Taper Speculation
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r   a n d   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2013-10-31T18:29:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/copper-heads-for-first-monthly-drop-in-four-on-taper-speculation.html
Copper futures fell for the first
time in a week amid speculation that the  Federal Reserve  may
start to slow economic stimulus sooner than forecast in the
U.S., the world’s second-biggest user of the metal.  The Fed signaled diminishing concern over higher borrowing
costs after a two-day meeting yesterday, even as it maintained
$85 billion in monthly bond purchases. The central bank’s
statement opens the possibility of reduced debt-buying as soon
as December, Citigroup Inc. and Barclays Plc said yesterday.  “The markets realize that tapering is going to happen at
some point, with the only question being how quickly they’ll do
it, and the Fed statement was a reminder of that,”  Frank Lesh ,
a trader at FuturePath Trading in  Chicago , said in a telephone
interview. “The markets had perhaps gotten bid up a little more
than they should have ahead of this meeting.”  Copper futures for delivery in December fell 0.8 percent to
settle at $3.3005 a pound at 1:19 p.m. on the Comex in  New York ,
halting a 1.9 percent gain in the previous four sessions. For
the month, the metal slipped 0.7 percent.  The odds that stimulus will slow in January rose to 45
percent from 25 percent before the Fed announcement, according
to Citigroup. Economists surveyed earlier this month by
Bloomberg said the Fed would wait until March to begin curbing
its bond purchases.  Copper stockpiles monitored by the London Metal Exchange
rose for the first time since Sept. 4 to 476,150 metric tons.
Metal amounting to 3,375 tons was delivered in  New Orleans , the
biggest global repository for the metal. Orders to remove copper
from warehouses dropped 1.1 percent to 291,500 tons.  Glencore Xstrata Plc, the mining company created in a $29
billion deal five months ago, said third-quarter copper output
jumped 34 percent as African mines added to volumes.  On the LME, copper for delivery in three months lost 0.6
percent to $7,249 a ton ($3.29 a pound). The price rose in the
previous five sessions, the longest rally in three months. The
metal slipped 0.7 percent this month.  Aluminum, tin, nickel, zinc and lead also fell in London.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Richter in Washington at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net ;
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in  London  at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  