-- Coursera Opening Centers to Bring Online Courses to World’s Poor
-- B y   J a n e t   L o r i n
-- 2013-10-31T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/coursera-opening-centers-to-bring-online-courses-to-world-s-poor.html
Coursera Inc. will offer free online
courses in more than 30 locations around the world, mostly in
third-world countries, bringing instruction to students who lack
computer access.  Under an agreement with the State Department, courses will
be available at some U.S. embassies, the  Mountain View ,
California-based company said today. All but one of the sites
are outside the U.S., including Baghdad; Port au Prince, Haiti;
and Hanoi, Vietnam.  Students can take the courses, have reliable  Internet
access  and learn from local course facilitators, Coursera said.
Along with the State Department, the University of Trinidad and
Tobago and Overcoming Faith Academy, an orphanage in Kenya, are
among the groups hosting the space. Of the more than 5 million
students who have signed up for the free courses, about 1.2
million are from  emerging markets , said Yin Lu, who leads the
company’s growth and international outreach efforts.  “We target students who need it the most and have the most
learning barriers,” Lu said in an interview. “By setting up
these low- to no-cost learning hubs all over the world, we are
allowing people the ability to learn and break some of those
limits.”  The company is looking for additional sites and later may
charge to offset operational costs such as electricity, she
said.  About 535 courses are available in more than 20 subjects
including biology, math, business and computer science. The
material is created through partnerships with more than 100
institutions, mostly universities, and encompasses topics such
as “Global Warming: The Science of  Climate Change ” from the
University of Chicago and “Nanotechnology: The Basics” from
Rice University.  Stanford University computer-science professors Daphne
Koller and Andrew Ng founded the company in 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Janet Lorin  in  New York  
 jlorin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  