-- Credit Suisse Exchanged $4.5 Billion Qatar Notes to CoCos
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2013-10-31T11:40:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/credit-suisse-exchanged-4-5-billion-qatar-notes-to-cocos.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,
 Switzerland ’s second-biggest bank, said it exchanged $4.5
billion of notes held by the Qatar Investment Authority into
debt that qualifies as capital under stricter rules.  The Zurich-based bank and Qatari sovereign wealth fund
swapped the Tier 1 capital notes for contingent-convertible
bonds on Oct. 23 in a transaction approved by Swiss financial
regulator Finma, Credit Suisse said in a  report  today.  The bank and Persian Gulf nation have boosted ties after
the wealth fund participated in Credit Suisse’s capital increase
during the 2008 financial crisis. The swap helps the Swiss
lender meet demands from the regulator that it boost reserves of
 capital  that can better absorb losses amid turmoil such as that
following the meltdown of the U.S. housing market.  “Credit Suisse gets to swap the old capital notes for ones
which are compatible with new regulations,” Arun Melmane, an
analyst with Canaccord Genuity Corp. in  London  who  recommends 
investors hold Credit Suisse shares, said today by phone.
“Qatar sees a strengthening of the bank’s capital.”  Credit Suisse rose 0.8 percent to 28.40 Swiss francs as of
12:13 p.m. in Zurich. The stock has surged 31 percent this year,
more than the 19 percent increase of the Bloomberg Europe Banks
and Financial Services Index in the same period.  The company said in February 2011 that the new notes, known
as CoCos because they convert into equity in the contingency of
capital levels falling below a preset threshold, would be issued
to Qatar no earlier than October of this year.  Tier 1 Ratio  The bank’s common equity Tier 1 ratio stood at 16.3 percent
at end September, more than double the 7 percent threshold that
would trigger the CoCos, the company said last week.  Qatar Holding, the wealth fund’s direct investment arm, has
accumulated a $1 billion stake in Bank of America Corp. after
starting to buy shares about two years ago, the Financial Times
reported yesterday, citing people familiar with the matter. Bank
of America is the second-biggest U.S. lender.  Credit Suisse raised 10 billion francs ($11 billion) from
investors in Qatar,  Israel  and  Saudi Arabia  in October 2008 to
replenish capital.  UBS AG (UBSN) , Switzerland’s largest bank, was
forced to ask the country’s taxpayers for aid after losses
mounted.  Qatar Holding LLC holds 5.2 percent of Credit Suisse’s
shares and 21.73 percent of its  voting rights , SIX Swiss
Exchange said in a statement on its website today.  The difference reflects the bonds that could be converted
into stock that corresponds to about 16 percent of Credit
Suisse’s current number of shares if a decline in its equity
were to trigger the notes,  Marc Dosch , a bank spokesman, said by
phone from Zurich today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  