-- Crown to Buy Mivisa for $1.64 Billion From Blackstone, N+1
-- B y   S o n j a   E l m q u i s t
-- 2013-10-31T20:16:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/crown-to-acquire-mivisa-for-1-64-billion-from-blackstone-n-1.html
Crown Holdings Inc. (CCK) , a U.S.
consumer-goods packaging manufacturer, agreed to buy Spanish
food-can maker Mivisa Envases SAU for 1.2 billion euros ($1.64
billion) including debt from  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , N+1 Mercapital
and the company’s management.  The deal is expected to close next year, Philadelphia-based
Crown said today in a statement. The acquisition has committed
debt financing and is subject to review by the European
Commission and other regulatory authorities.  Crown plans to purchase Mivisa, the largest food-can
producer in the Iberian Peninsula and  Morocco , to expand in
Europe and the  Middle East  where Crown generated $4 billion of
sales in 2012, or 47 percent of the company’s revenue, according
to a filing. The Murcia, Spain-based company had sales of 555
million euros and earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization of 133 million euros in the year ended June 30,
Crown said.  That implies Crown paid about 9 times Mivisa’s earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. The
average Ebitda multiple in four acquisitions of packaging
companies in the past 5 years valued at $100 million or more is
7.7, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Mivisa’s food-can business earns 24 percent Ebitda margins,
or double Crown’s European food-can margins, due to a much lower
cost structure, Philip Ng, an analyst at Jefferies Group LLC,
wrote in a note today, referring to Crown by its stock ticker.
“With investors’ appetite for companies with leverage to a
potential recovery in  Europe , we view the acquisition as a
positive for Crown’s margin profile.”  Crown, which makes containers from beer and soft-drink cans
to candy boxes and aerosol spray bottles, rose 7.3 percent to
$43.60 at the close in  New York , the most since Aug. 9, 2011.
The shares have climbed 18 percent this year.  Citigroup Inc. was Crown’s financial adviser on the deal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonja Elmquist in New York at 
 selmquist1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  