-- Daimler Seeks More Tesla Cooperation in Pursuit of BMW
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 2013-10-31T20:35:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/daimler-seeks-more-tesla-cooperation-in-pursuit-of-bmw.html
Daimler AG (DAI)  plans to look at
additional cooperation projects with  Tesla (TSLA)  Motors Inc. as the
maker of Mercedes-Benz luxury cars targets  Bayerische Motoren
Werke AG (BMW) ’s sales lead.  Daimler, which will use a Tesla drivetrain in an all-electric version of the Mercedes B-Class compact, owns a 4.3
percent stake in the  Palo Alto , California-based manufacturer
and plans to keep the holding to maintain ties.  “We should look at more cooperation so we like the
stake,” Chief Financial Officer Bodo Uebber said today at a
press conference in  New York . Uebber is in New York meeting with
shareholders to give them an update on the Stuttgart, Germany-based company’s plans to grow revenue and profit margins in the
coming years.  Daimler Chief Executive Officer  Dieter Zetsche  has vowed to
surpass BMW in sales by the end of the decade after Mercedes
dropped to third behind  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi in 2011.
Underpinning that goal are plans to develop 13 all-new models in
the next eight years, including the GLA compact sport-utility
vehicle due in showrooms in early 2014.  BMW is looking to keep ahead of the competition by rolling
out new models like the i3 electric city car and the i8 plug-in
hybrid sports car in the coming months.  Tesla is an important piece of Daimler’s technology
strategy as the German automaker looks at more applications for
electric-powered cars, Uebber said. The company currently sells
an electric version of the Smart city car and has rolled out a
battery-powered version of the SLS gull-wing supercar.  ‘Good Fit’  “Mercedes, with respect to the electric car, it’s a very
niche operation for them,” Alan Baum, an auto analyst at Baum &
Associates in West Bloomfield,  Michigan , said by telephone.
“The product Tesla provides actually fits rather well with
them, and the relationship between the companies has been a good
fit.”  Daimler has bought battery packs and electric motors from
Tesla for its Smart EV minicar and is readying the electric
Mercedes-Benz B-Class hatchback using Tesla technology.  Harald Kroeger, Daimler’s vice president of electrics,
electronics and e-Drive, is a member of Tesla’s board.  Tesla’s Model S sedan, priced from about $70,000 to more
than $100,000, is the top-selling vehicle this year in eight of
the 25 wealthiest U.S. ZIP codes, according to Edmunds.com,
citing analysis of new-car registration data from R.L. Polk &
Co. All eight communities are in  California , Edmunds, a  Santa
Monica , California-based automotive data company, said today in
a statement.  Tesla gained 0.5 percent to $159.94 at the close in New
York. The  shares  have more than quadrupled this year. Daimler
rose 1.8 percent to 60.44 euros in  Frankfurt .  Margin Target  In addition to boosting sales, Daimler plans to cut 2
billion euros ($2.7 billion) in costs through 2014 to rival BMW
in profitability. Mercedes has a long-standing target of
generating operating profit equivalent to at least 10 percent of
sales. The goal, which was originally targeted for 2010, was
indefinitely postponed last year.  “We can once again close the gap with our competition on
sales and margins,” Uebber said. “There is more and more
confidence in our long-term strategy” and results in 2014 and
2015 can be “even better.”  Mercedes posted an operating profit margin of 7.3 percent
for the third quarter, up from 6.4 percent in the second
quarter. BMW, which reports third-quarter earnings Nov. 5,
reported a profit margin of 9.6 percent from automotive business
in the quarter ended June 30.  Daimler forecast that fourth-quarter operating profit will
rise as the Mercedes CLA coupe, E-Class sedan and flagship S-Class win customers in a sign that Zetsche’s strategy is gaining
traction. Third-quarter earnings before interest and taxes
jumped 16 percent to 2.23 billion euros. Nine-month delivery
growth at Mercedes exceeded gains at BMW and Audi.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Welch  in New York at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  