-- Danske Bank Says 150 Jobs at Risk at Irish Unit Amid Exit
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n   a n d   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2013-10-31T10:11:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/danske-bank-says-150-jobs-at-risk-at-irish-unit-amid-exit.html
Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE) , Denmark’s largest
lender, said that 150 employees at its Irish unit are at risk of
losing their jobs as it exits retail and business banking.  The Irish division has stopped offering personal and
business banking products to new customers after an attempt to
revive those operations failed, the Copenhagen-based lender said
in a statement today. The firm said it will repay customer
deposits and continue its corporate and institutional lending.  Danske Chief Executive Officer Thomas Borgen is the latest
head of a foreign bank to try and staunch losses in Ireland,
where the worst real estate crash in western  Europe  pushed the
economy into recession and prompted a bailout of the industry.
Other lenders to unwind businesses include the U.K.’s  Lloyds
Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  and Rabobank Groep from the Netherlands.  “It’s been a very difficult decision, a regrettable
decision,” Terry Browne, who heads the bank’s Irish division,
said in a phone interview. “But we have to make a hard business
decision here based on the unsustainable position we find the
retail business banking model in.”  The bank said it expects restructuring costs of the Irish
business to impact earnings between 250 million kroner ($46
million) and 300 million kroner over the coming five quarters,
with a risk of additional impairments of as much as 500 million
kroner over the period. Activities in  Northern Ireland  are not
affected, according to the statement.  ‘Reassert Dominance’  Domestic lenders including  Bank of Ireland  and  Allied Irish
Banks Plc (ALBK)  will benefit as Danske, Lloyds and Rabobank continue
their retreat, according to Ciaran Callaghan, a Dublin-based
analyst at Merrion Capital.  “This trend highlights the challenges facing the Irish
banking landscape as the sector recovers from a severe property
crash,” Callaghan said in a note. “However, from a domestic
banking perspective, the exit of smaller foreign players
strengthens the duopoly position of the large remaining players,
further allowing them to reassert their dominance.”  Danske’s revamp of Irish operations included winding down
commercial property investments, removing the firm’s branch
network and trying to create a “viable” retail business,
Browne said. The effort floundered because of low  interest rates 
and a “challenge in acquisition of customers,” he said.  The company will move about 3.4 billion euros ($4.7
billion) of mortgage and business loans into a non-core
division, where they will be serviced and perhaps sold, Browne
said. Danske’s Irish unit had a pretax loss of 31.4 million
euros in the year’s first nine months, the bank said.  “It’s disappointing that Danske Bank is moving to withdraw
still further to the obvious detriment of its customers and its
staff,” Larry Broderick, general secretary of the Irish Banking
Officials Association, said in a statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donal Griffin in Dublin at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net ;
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  