-- Data Feed Breakdowns Show Market Stress as VIX Lurches
-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t   a n d   L u   W a n g
-- 2013-10-31T08:38:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/data-feed-breakdowns-show-market-stress-as-vix-lurches.html
Confidence was shaken in the U.S.
options market after lines that pipe prices between exchanges
malfunctioned, reinforcing concern that arose two months ago
when Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. froze trading.  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1) ’s International Securities Exchange,
which runs the third-largest U.S. options venue, had trouble
sending information yesterday to a marketwide price conduit
called the Options Price Reporting Authority. It’s at least the
sixth mishap this year with the main price feed for  equity
derivatives , evidence of the market’s fragility as Securities
and Exchange Commission Chairman Mary Jo White pressures
exchanges to collaborate on making their systems more reliable.  While trading carried on yesterday, the breakdown gave
fresh life to speculation that the structure of American
securities markets is fundamentally flawed. The disruption
followed Nasdaq’s Aug. 22 data feed error that caused a three-hour halt for thousands of stocks, and comes after the SEC
accused two of the biggest options institutions,  CBOE Holdings
Inc. (CBOE)  and Options Clearing Corp., of supervisory failures.  “The series of glitches we’ve experienced this year have
definitely served to remind us that market risk isn’t the only
thing traders have to worry about,” Max Breier, a senior equity
derivatives trader at BMO Capital Markets Corp. in New York,
said in an interview yesterday. “Operational risk, which is
very hard to quantify, may be increasing as the world becomes
more reliant on electronic exchanges.”  Opra Problem  Nasdaq’s securities information processor, or SIP, broke
down in August, prompting the second-largest U.S. stock exchange
owner to halt trading out of concern that the error would cause
uneven dissemination of prices. It underscored how quickly the
integrity of the U.S. market can be subverted as orders to buy
and sell shares are matched on more than 50 exchanges and
alternative electronic venues.  “The problem that originated at Opra today that prevented
dissemination of ISE’s market data again reinforces the need for
the industry to assess single points of failure and to work
together to strengthen our critical infrastructure as requested
by Chair White last month,” ISE Chief Executive Officer Gary Katz said yesterday in a statement e-mailed to Bloomberg News.
“We are committed to working with Opra and the other exchanges
to make actionable recommendations to accomplish that goal.”  Market Fragmentation  Like the U.S. equity market, options trading is spread
across multiple exchanges, all of them connected by data feeds
that ensure buyers and sellers get the best available price. The
fragmentation followed a decade and a half of reform on Wall
Street aimed at spurring competition among securities exchanges.
Critics say the system has bred so much complexity that avoiding
breakdowns is impossible.  Errors with the main options price feed have cropped up
several times in 2013. The U.S. equity derivatives market was
halted briefly on Sept. 16 because of an issue with data from
Opra, while CBOE stopped trading three days earlier on its C2
venue when it couldn’t send information to the price processor.
 Nasdaq  reported problems with Opra in January and April. CBOE,
the largest U.S. options exchange operator, experienced issues
with disseminating data in July.  Breakdowns in equity and options markets could threaten
industry credit ratings around the world, according to Standard
& Poor’s. SEC Chairman White ordered exchange owners on Sept. 12
to bolster systems to prevent malfunctions.  ‘It’s Frustrating’  “It’s frustrating that these market issues are happening
so often lately,” Jon Cherry, senior vice president of
derivatives trading at Chicago-based TJM Institutional Services
LLC, said in an interview. “It’s across many exchanges, and
it’s in options and equities.”  The SEC has questioned the quality of options market
oversight, telling Chicago-based Options Clearing Corp. in
September that it has “serious concern about systemic
weaknesses in OCC’s risk management and operations,” according
to a letter obtained by Bloomberg News. The clearinghouse
guarantees all trades on U.S. options exchanges. The SEC
chastised Chicago-based CBOE in June for an oversight breakdown
that resulted in a $6 million fine.  ISE  said  its technical issue yesterday involved the
software configuration in its connection to Opra, according to a
statement. A workaround was implemented and “ISE and Opra
technology teams are collaborating to restore the proper
configuration,” ISE said.  Quote Information  NYSE Euronext (NYX) ’s Securities Industry Automation Corp.
oversees Opra, which administers the dissemination of trade and
quote information to brokers, investors and market-data vendors
such as Thomson Reuters Corp. and Bloomberg LP, the parent of
Bloomberg News. NYSE Euronext spokesman Eric Ryan declined to
comment on ISE.  The two U.S. options markets that ISE runs handled a
combined 15 percent of the nation’s equity derivatives trading
last month, according to data compiled by OCC.  Separately, the Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility
Index, known as the VIX, surged and fell yesterday in a series
of bursts that CBOE later attributed to a software flaw.  The spikes in the benchmark measure of U.S. options prices
were probably unrelated to the ISE malfunction because CBOE has
exclusive rights to options on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.
Contracts on that equity gauge determine the price of the  VIX. (VIX)   The VIX jumped to 21.26 from 13.94 at 10:02 a.m. New York
time yesterday. The next price was 13.92. At 11:22 a.m., the VIX
posted another temporary spike: up to 15.27 from 14.16, and then
immediately back down to 14.17, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg. It happened again at 12:19 p.m. with a jump to 19.53
and retreat to 14.31, the data show.  Software Issue  Later, CBOE  said  on its website that the unusual VIX moves
were caused by a “software issue” that was resolved as of 1:21
p.m. New York time yesterday. The VIX ended the day at 13.65
yesterday. Its counterpart in Europe, the VStoxx Index, fell 3.3
percent to 15.62 at 9:36 a.m. in  Frankfurt  today.  “If you have consistent, repeated incidents of dubious
data, then it may cause people to lose confidence,” Randy Frederick, managing director of active trading and derivatives
at Charles Schwab Corp., said in a phone interview from Austin,
 Texas . His firm has about $2.2 trillion of client assets. “Any
types of technology glitches cause concern for investors. That’s
no question.”  The moves in the VIX didn’t affect pricing of futures and
options contracts on the index, said Bouhari Arouna, director of
equity trading strategy at Citigroup Global Markets Inc. While
the VIX isn’t itself traded, CBOE has created contracts linked
to the measure.  ‘Not Ideal’  Trading malfunctions have plagued the U.S. stock and
options markets since the May 2010 plunge known as the flash
crash. This year, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. bombarded options
markets in August with unintended orders, some of which were
later canceled. On April 25, the CBOE opened for trading 3 1/2
hours late because of a software malfunction.  “It does happen on a fairly regular basis that you get a
strange print in the VIX, but the timing of these issues is not
ideal for the options market,” said Bill Luby, who trades
volatility products as chief investment officer of Tiburon,
California-based Luby Asset Management LLC. “We just had the
Goldman issue, Nasdaq had a major disruption and CBOE is rolling
out extended VIX futures trading hours, so they certainly want
to make sure their calculations and software are ready.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net ;
Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  