-- De Blasio Gets Wall Street Praise Even After Tax Proposal
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2013-10-31T15:19:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/de-blasio-gets-wall-street-praise-even-after-tax-proposal.html
After 12 years of Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  boosting New York’s finance industry, Wall Street is
adjusting to the almost inevitable election of Bill de Blasio,
who is campaigning against  income inequality  and calling for
higher taxes on the rich.  De Blasio, 52, has been wooing the investment community
since winning the Democratic mayoral nomination Sept. 10,
assuring bankers, real estate developers and corporate
executives that he understands their importance. He held three
meetings with business leaders in the first week of October.  “He’s a smart man who understands that New York is in
global competition for jobs, investment and talent and that all
New Yorkers, particularly those most in need, are uplifted by
New York winning that competition,” said Ralph Schlosstein, 62,
a co-founder of  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  and now chief executive officer
of investment bank  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR) , who attended one of
the meetings.  The securities industry drives New York’s economy,
employing 168,000 and accounting for 8.5 percent of its $45
billion in  tax revenue . Bloomberg, 71, who began his career as a
Salomon Brothers bond trader, served as Wall Street’s
cheerleader-in-chief, even in the darkest days of the financial
crisis.  ‘Well-Received’  William Mulrow, 57, senior managing director of the
Blackstone Group LP, the world’s largest alternative-asset
manager, said he was impressed with de Blasio at a meeting this
month with about 20 executives, including  Lloyd Blankfein  of
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., News Corp. Chairman  Rupert Murdoch  and
Daily News publisher  Mort Zuckerman .  “He was very well received; he looked and sounded like a
mayor, in charge of the facts,” Mulrow said. “He was a smart
and capable guy who was completely realistic about the job he
was about to assume.”  De Blasio has held a lead of about 40 percentage points in
polls over Republican Joseph Lhota, 59, a top aide to former
Mayor  Rudolph Giuliani . As head of the  Metropolitan
Transportation Authority , Lhota got the subways running within
days after  Hurricane Sandy  flooded the system last year.  If de Blasio wins on Nov. 5, he would be the first Democrat
elected mayor since David Dinkins became the city’s first and
only black chief executive in 1989.  Tough Act  Bloomberg’s tenure included zoning changes that stimulated
investment to build offices, apartment towers and parks on
underused waterfronts; new baseball stadiums in Queens and the
Bronx; and an arena that brought professional basketball to
Brooklyn. He closed multibillion dollar budget gaps in the
recession that coincided with the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks and
after the 2008 financial crisis. The city’s credit rating was
raised three times by Moody’s Investor’s Service.  The mayor, the billionaire founder and majority owner of
Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP, will leave office Dec. 31.
He is legally barred from seeking a fourth term.  “No one can replace Mike Bloomberg as Wall Street’s
knowledgeable champion,” said  Kathryn Wylde , president of the
Partnership for  New York City , a civic group of about 200 chief
executives that includes Blankfein and  Laurence Fink , CEO of
BlackRock, the world’s largest money manager.  After accepting that the next mayor won’t be their bully-pulpit lobbyist, “what Wall Street wants is a mayor who will
keep crime low, get the garbage picked up, pay attention to the
schools and balance the budget,” Wylde said. “There’s also
awareness of the difference between election-year rhetoric and
the realities of governing.”  No Contradiction  De Blasio says there’s no contradiction between his
signature proposal -- taxing annual incomes over $500,000 to pay
for universal pre-kindergarten and after-school programs -- and
what most  Wall Street  professionals want. Spending on such
programs is a long-term investment that will pay off by creating
a better educated, more highly skilled and socially adjusted
workforce, he says.  “Even folks on Wall Street may come to realize that if we
don’t educate our children better through early childhood and
after-school programs and if we don’t build more affordable
housing and create more opportunity, this won’t be as strong a
city,” de Blasio told reporters Oct. 4, after addressing 400
executives at a Manhattan breakfast hosted by the Association
for a Better New York, a business-funded civic group.  Romancing Marxism  Such talk hasn’t persuaded everyone.  “New York voters are about to elect the Occupy movement to
run America’s largest city,” the Wall Street Journal wrote in
an Oct. 29  editorial.  Referring to Catholic-church sponsored
relief work de Blasio did in Central America 30 years ago, the
newspaper said he “romanced the revolutionary Marxism of
Nicaragua’s Sandinistas, Castro’s communism and even Mugabe in
Zimbabwe.”  Lhota has attacked de Blasio for those activities, and run
television ads warning that de Blasio would return the city to
the pre-Giuliani days of more than 2,000 homicides a year. The
Democrat has “handcuffed police” with his criticism of stop-and-frisk tactics, which a federal judge found unfairly targeted
minority youths, Lhota said.  Homicides have declined 78 percent since Giuliani took
office; 36 percent of that drop came under Bloomberg.  “People are scared of de Blasio,” said Joel Isaacson, 55,
an independent voter on Manhattan’s Upper East Side whose
investment advisory firm, Joel Isaacson & Co., helps oversee
about $5 billion. “I don’t want to go back to the days when you
walked around the city looking over your shoulder.”  Isaacson donated $4,600 to  Hillary Clinton ’s campaign for
the Democratic presidential nomination in 2007 and $1,000 to
Democratic U.S. Senator  Charles Schumer  of New York in 1997,
according to the  Federal Election Commission .  ‘Smart Guy’  Donald Marron , 79, founder of Lightyear Capital LLC, a
private-equity firm, and former CEO of Paine Webber Group Inc.,
expressed less concern. He called de Blasio “a smart guy who’s
straightforward” and who “recognized that Wall Street and
finance in general is a key industry for New York.”  Marron has given $63,200 to the National Republican
Senatorial Committee since October 2012, according to the
nonprofit Center for Responsive Politics in Washington.  The test for de Blasio, Marron said, will be in who he
appoints as his deputies and commissioners, and how he resolves
expired contracts with all city unions.  “Bloomberg brought in very accomplished people who
probably wouldn’t have come into government without him,”
Marron said. “The key question is where do you find the talent
with experience and know-how to manage a city? Mike was able to
do that.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Goldman in  New York  at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  