-- Debut Honduran Bonds Rally as Polls Show Tighter Election
-- B y   E r i c   S a b o   a n d   I s a b e l l a   C o t a
-- 2013-10-31T13:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/debut-honduran-bonds-rally-as-polls-show-tighter-election.html
Honduras ’s debut global bonds are
heading for their best monthly performance since being sold in
March as the ruling party’s presidential candidate climbs in the
polls before the Nov. 24 election.  Yields on Honduras’s dollar bonds due in 2024 have fallen
81 basis points, or 0.81 percentage point, to 9.26 percent this
month after reaching a record 10.77 percent in September.
Honduran securities have returned 6.8 percent this month,
outperforming the 2.8 percent average for  emerging markets ,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBIG index.  Polls in the Central American country show former lawmaker
Juan Orlando Hernandez of the  National Party  gaining on Xiomara
Castro, the wife of deposed ex-President  Manuel Zelaya .
Investors favor Hernandez over Castro, whose husband allied
himself with late Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez , according to
Miguel Gandolfo, an emerging-market analyst at F&C Asset
Management Plc in London.  “He is a continuation of the establishment,” Gandolfo
said in a phone interview today.  “The expectation is that he
would favor more market-friendly” policies.  Castro, who had led a group of eight candidates trying to
succeed President Porfirio Lobo, now trails Hernandez of the
ruling National Party among likely voters by a 35 percent to 30
percent margin, according to a CID-Gallup poll published Oct. 24
in the newspaper La Prensa. Mauricio Villeda of the  Liberal
Party  had 19 percent. The survey of 1,525 people was conducted
Oct. 9-15 and has a margin of error of 2.51 percentage points.  Fed Impact  Honduran bonds are also rallying as investors seek higher
yielding securities in the wake of the  Federal Reserve ’s
decision to continue its $85 billion monthly bond-buying
program, according to Carl Ross, a managing director at
brokerage Oppenheimer & Co. in Atlanta. While the market favors
Hernandez, neither candidate would promote “radical” policies,
he added.  Messages seeking comment left at the Honduran Finance
Ministry weren’t returned.  Standard & Poor’s lowered Honduras’s  credit rating  in
August to B from B+, citing a rising debt burden and a limited
ability to fund deficit spending. The B rating, five levels
below investment grade, puts the country of 8 million people in
the same category as Ghana and Ukraine.  Zelaya, who has joined his wife at campaign rallies, was
forced out of the country in 2009 by the military after he
pushed forward with plans to host a non-binding referendum that
opponents said was aimed at allowing him to remain in power
after his term ended.  Boost Security  Hernandez, 45, has vowed to boost security and employment
in a country ranked by the  United Nations  as the world’s most
violent. He’s also said he’ll expand a program offering cash
payments to the country’s poorest families.  There will probably be “a pop in the bonds” if Hernandez
wins, said Ross. “The view is that there’s going to be a
positive political outcome.”  Former central bank President Noe Pino, who is advising
Castro, said she would work with the private sector to boost
growth in the $36 billion economy without using tax exemptions.
The ruling party’s policies have left the country in such poor
fiscal shape, he said, that the next government is unlikely to
be able to tap global debt markets again.  “The state’s resources are very limited,” Pino said in an
interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Sabo in Panama City at 
 esabo1@bloomberg.net ;
Isabella Cota in  San Jose ,  Costa Rica  at 
 icota@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bill Faries at 
 wfaries@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  