-- Defoe Receives $8 Million-a-Year MLS Offer, Mirror Says: Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-10-31T08:08:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/defoe-receives-8-million-a-year-mls-offer-mirror-says-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Defoe’s Offer  Tottenham Hotspur striker Jermain Defoe has been offered a
contract worth 5 million pounds ($8 million) a year by Toronto
FC of  Major League Soccer , the  Daily Mirror reported .  The Canadian team faces competition from Queens Park
Rangers for the 31-year-old striker, who’s scored eight goals in
13 games so far this season, the newspaper added.  Pato Interest  Tottenham and Arsenal are interested in signing Brazilian
forward  Alexandre Pato  from Corinthians in the January transfer
window, the  Daily Mail reported .  Spurs failed with a bid to acquire the former AC Milan
player in the offseason, the Mail cited Pato as saying.  Palace Job  Newcastle’s  Alan Pardew  is a surprise candidate to become
Crystal Palace coach, the  Daily Mirror reported .  Palace was expected to hire an out-of-work coach to speed
up the appointment of  Ian Holloway ’s successor, although it has
been alerted to Pardew’s interest in the position by an
intermediary, the newspaper added.  Former Aston Villa manager  Alex McLeish  has signaled his
interest in the job, while Wales coach Chris Coleman is among
the favorites after a successful four-year spell as a player at
Palace, the  Guardian reported .  Cole Contract  Chelsea defender  Ashley Cole  will seek a contract extension
when his current 12-month deal expires at the end of this
season, the  Daily Star reported .  “I hope to stay for longer,” the Star cited Cole, 32, as
saying. “I have had a great time here, a great career here and,
of course, I’d love to stay if they still want me.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  