-- Dentons, McKenna to Put Merger to a Vote: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-10-31T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/dentons-mckenna-to-put-merger-to-a-vote-business-of-law.html
Dentons LLP, the 2,600-lawyer global
 law firm , and McKenna Long & Aldridge LLP, a 575-lawyer firm,
will put their proposed merger to a vote of partners in the next
two weeks, both firms confirmed in an e-mail.  “The boards of Dentons and McKenna Long & Aldridge have
recommended to their partners that the firms combine, subject to
the approval by their respective partnerships,” the firms said.
“The voting procedures will follow the protocols of each firm
and will be completed no later than Nov. 14, 2013.”  Both firms have experience combining with others. Dentons
was formed by a merger with Fraser Milner Casgrain, Salans and
SNR Denton, completed in March. McKenna Long undertook a major
combination last year by acquiring the California law firm Luce
Forward Hamilton & Scripps, giving it lawyers at 15 offices in
the U.S., Brussels and  Seoul .  U.S. law firms have entered 58 mergers so far this year,
compared to 60 in all of 2012, according to legal consultant
Altman Weil Inc.’s MergerLine.  Pillsbury Winthrop Shaw Pittman LLP and Orrick Herrington &
Sutcliffe LLP said last week that they are in talks about
merging the San Francisco-based law firms.  Cooley LLP, a firm with a strong technology practice,
announced that it is combining with Dow Lohnes PLLC’s Washington
office earlier this month.  A merger of Dentons and McKenna Long would give a combined
firm approximately 3,175 lawyers, making it the third-largest by
numbers, after DLA Piper LLP and Baker & McKenzie LLP, both with
more than 4,000 lawyers last year, according to the American
Lawyer magazine.  Jones Day , currently third in TAL rankings, is
listed as having 2,363 lawyers.  Both firms declined to disclose further information.  Alan Hoffman Elected Chairman, Managing Partner of Blank Rome  Blank Rome LLP co-chairman Alan J. Hoffman was elected as
chairman and re-elected as managing partner of the firm for a
three-year term beginning in January 2015. Current co-chairman
T. Michael Dyer announced his retirement at the end of the year,
leaving Hoffman to become the sole chairman on Jan. 1, while
also continuing his current role as managing partner.  “It is a true honor to be elected by my fellow partners
to serve as chairman and managing partner of Blank Rome,”
Hoffman said in a statement. “I am grateful to have had the
opportunity to work beside Mike as co-chairman for the past five
years and look forward to building upon the strong foundation
that we have established to ensure continued success and growth
in the years ahead.”  Hoffman has been co-chairman since 2008 and managing
partner since 2011. In that time the firm expanded to open in
 Los Angeles , Houston and  Shanghai  and added key lateral hires
particularly in the consumer financial services, energy, and
maritime practices.  Hoffman joined Blank Rome in 1992. His practice consists of
handling complex corporate and criminal litigation and he has
extensive trial and appellate experience, the firm said.  Blank Rome has almost 500 attorneys in the U.S. and
Shanghai.  Moves  Cozen O’Connor Creates International Arbitration Practice Group  Cozen O’Connor added Martin Gusy as chairman of its new
international arbitration practice group, along with another
lawyer in  New York . They join from Gusy Van der Zandt LLP, where
Gusy was head of the litigation and arbitration department.  Cozen’s newly formed international arbitration practice
group includes Donna Goldsworthy, who joined Cozen O’Connor’s
 London  office in January. Jeffrey G. Weil, co-chairman of the
firm’s litigation section and chairman of the commercial
litigation department and Dave Zerhusen, who co-chairs Cozen’s
energy industry team are also among the members.  “International arbitration is critically important to
doing business and resolving cross-border disputes in today’s
global environment,” firm managing partner Vincent R. McGuinness Jr. said in a statement. “We are very pleased to be
expanding our team, whose experience extends throughout the
 United States ,  Europe ,  South America  and  Asia ,  Middle East ,
 Africa  and  Australia .”  Gusy has more than a decade of experience as a litigator
and international dispute-resolution attorney and is admitted to
practice in New York and  Germany , the firm said. He has
represented domestic and international parties in about 100 U.S.
courts and international arbitrations.  Cozen O’Connor has 575 attorneys at 23 offices in  North
America  and London.  DLA Piper Hires Litigator Donaldson in Tampa, Houston Offices  DLA Piper LLP announced that Teri Donaldson joined the
firm’s litigation practice as a partner in the Houston and Tampa
offices. She joins DLA Piper from Sutherland Asbill & Brennan
LLP.  She was previously general counsel for the Florida
Department of Environmental Protection, where she advised the
department secretary and appeared before administrative agencies
and in federal and state court, the firm said.  Donaldson’s environmental, energy and white-collar
practice involves both litigation and transactional matters. She
conducts environmental due diligence and advises national and
international companies on managing environmental liabilities
and risk associated with mergers and acquisitions and the sale
of large assets, the firm said. She also supervises the
environmental permitting of major energy projects, including
terminals and pipelines, and provides counsel on shale gas
development matters.  “Teri is among the most highly regarded environmental
lawyers in her field in  Texas , and her experience as both a
litigator and regulatory general counsel will be an invaluable
resource to our clients in Houston and to our litigation and
energy operations around the globe,” Ileana Blanco, managing
partner of DLA Piper’s Houston office, said in a statement.  DLA Piper has 4,200 lawyers in more than 30 countries in
the Americas, Asia Pacific, Europe and the Middle East.  Litigation  J&J’s Janssen Must Pay $4 Million Over Topamax, Jury Says  Johnson & Johnson’s (JNJ)  Janssen Pharmaceutical unit must pay
$4.02 million in a lawsuit claiming that its seizure drug
 Topamax  caused birth defects, a Philadelphia jury said.  Jurors in state court deliberated less than an hour before
rendering a verdict in favor of Virginia resident April Czimmer
who took the drug for six months and gave birth to a boy with
cleft lip. Czimmer said her son Blake, born in September 2007,
had injuries that have required four surgeries.  “This was our first case to go to trial and there are many
more behind it,” Czimmer’s attorney Tommy Fibich said after the
verdict. “This will expose the company to many more lawsuits.”  Czimmer’s case is the first of about 134 cases pending in
state court in Philadelphia over the drug, plaintiffs’ lawyers
said. Another trial began Oct. 29 with opening statements on
injuries suffered by a 5-year-old boy from South Carolina.  Topamax, approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration
in 1996, was one of New Brunswick, New Jersey-based J&J’s top
sellers before it lost patent protection in 2009. Czimmer took
the drug from August 2006 through February 2007 to treat
migraines.  The  birth defects , known as oral clefts, range from a small
notch in the lip to a groove that runs into the roof of the
mouth and nose.  The case is Czimmer v. Janssen Pharmaceuticals Inc.,
110503459, Court of Common Pleas, Philadelphia County,
 Pennsylvania . The master case is In re Topamax Litigation,
110602131, Court of Common Pleas, Philadelphia County,
Pennsylvania.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York,
at   eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 