-- Deutsche Wohnen $2.3 Billion GSW Bid Gets Backing to Proceed
-- B y   D a l i a   F a h m y
-- 2013-10-31T13:40:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/deutsche-wohnen-2-3-billion-gsw-bid-gets-acceptances-to-proceed.html
Deutsche Wohnen AG (DWN) ’s offer to buy
residential landlord  GSW Immobilien AG (GIB)  in the biggest German
real estate acquisition in five years was accepted by enough GSW
shareholders to proceed.  Investors holding more than 75 percent of GSW shares agreed
to a share swap that values the company at about 1.7 billion
euros ($2.3 billion), Deutsche Wohnen said in a statement today.
The purchase is valued at 3.5 billion euros including debt,
making it the biggest since at least 2008, when  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  bought German rental-home owner LEG NRW for about the
same amount, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “We have received a clear mandate from both shareholder
groups,” Deutsche Wohnen CEO Michael Zahn said in the
statement.  Both GSW and Deutsche Wohnen are focused on Berlin, where
home-price and rent gains have outpaced the rest of the country.
The merger will create a company with about 150,000 apartments,
valued at 8.5 billion euros. It will be  Germany ’s second-biggest
landlord after Deutsche Annington Immobilien SE.  Deutsche Wohnen shares rose 1 percent to 13.92 euros at
1:32 p.m. in Frankfurt trading. GSW stock climbed 1.4 percent to
34.24 euros.  Long Wait  The total amount of acceptances will be published on Nov.
4, today’s statement said. GSW shareholders who have not
participated in the swap can do so until Nov. 18.  Deutsche Wohnen made its offer on Aug. 20, about two months
after GSW’s chief executive officer Bernd Kottmann and its
chairman resigned following investor complaints about the way
Kottmann was hired. Deutsche Wohnen CEO Michael Zahn said at the
time that he took advantage of the power vacuum to make a bid
for a competitor he has considered buying since before  GSW’s
initial public offering  in 2011.  GSW management on Oct. 14 recommended that shareholders
accept the bid and said its co-CEOs Joerg Schwagenscheidt and
Andreas Segal will become chief operating officer and chief
financial officer, respectively, of the combined company.  Deutsche Annington Immobilien SE (ANN)  is Germany’s biggest
residential landlord, with 180,000 apartments and a market value
of 4.4 billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ross Larsen at 
 rlarsen2@bloomberg.net  