-- Deutsche Bank Opening Rental Bond Spigot to Cerberus
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n ,   H e a t h e r   P e r l b e r g   a n d   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2013-10-31T15:55:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/deutsche-bank-opening-rental-bond-spigot-to-cerberus.html
Blackstone Group LP (BX) ’s debut sale of
bonds backed by rental homes is paving the way for Cerberus
Capital Management LP and  Colony Capital LLC  as  Wall Street 
creates a new market to expand funding for the industry.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  unveiled the $479.1 million deal, which
bundles mortgages on 3,207 single-family homes acquired by
Blackstone into securities of varying risk, at the Waldorf
Astoria hotel in New York yesterday, after spending more than
six months structuring the transaction. Almost 60 percent of the
securitization received AAA, or top ratings, from Moody’s
Investors Service, Kroll Bond Rating Agency and  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)   Demand for rental bonds would give private-equity firms,
 hedge funds  and other investors a new source of capital to
increase buying of single-family homes after they raised more
than $20 billion to acquire as many as 200,000 properties in the
past two years. Issuance may eventually exceed $70 billion a
year, equivalent to this year’s expected sales in the two-decade
old commercial mortgage-backed  securities market , said Jade Rahmani, a housing analyst with Keefe Bruyette & Woods Inc.  “Blackstone has borrowed multiples of what is reflected in
this deal, so this is the first of many transactions for them as
well as for the market as a whole,” said Carl Bell, a managing
director at Amundi Smith Breeden, the U.S. subsidiary of French
asset-manager Amundi, which oversees about $1 trillion. “A big
part of this is laying the groundwork for future deals.”  Blackstone Lines  Blackstone has spent $7.5 billion on about 40,000 homes,
the most of any firm after homes prices plunged as much as 35
percent from the 2006 peak. The New York-based firm has obtained
$3.6 billion in credit lines from lenders led by Deutsche Bank.
Christine Anderson, spokeswoman for New York-based Blackstone,
declined to comment on the bond offering, which is also being
arranged by Credit Suisse Group AG and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   Renters in the U.S. occupy about 14 million single-family
homes worth as much as $2.8 trillion, according to Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. Demand for leased housing is increasing as fewer
Americans are able to qualify for a mortgage after the financial
crisis, which forced millions of homeowners into foreclosure.  The U.S.  homeownership  rate will stabilize in a few years
at 63 percent, down from the current 65 percent and a 2004 peak
of 69.2 percent, according to Morgan Stanley analyst Haendel St. Juste. That would add more than 2 million rental households to
the current 40.1 million.  Securitization Opportunity  Colony American Homes Inc. (CAHS) , the third-largest single-family
landlord with more than 15,000 homes, is exploring securitizing
debt on its properties and with loans provided to smaller
operators, according to Justin Chang, chief executive officer of
the firm.  “The securitization opportunity is here for both the
owned-homes-to-rent business and it’s also for the lending
business,” Chang said in a telephone interview. “Bringing
additional institutional capital to this market, whether in the
form of equity or the form of debt, is a good thing and speaks
to the continued professionalization and institutionalization of
this asset class.”  Colony American Homes is the Scottsdale, Arizona-based unit
of Colony Capital, a private-equity firm founded by Tom Barrack
that started out buying distressed real estate and debt sold by
the U.S. government’s Resolution Trust Corp.  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  is working on a securitization for
American Homes 4 Rent, the second-largest single-family
landlord, with an offering expected in the first half of next
year, according to a person with knowledge of the offering, who
asked not to be named because the information is private.
Cerberus, which is providing debt to landlords through its First
Key Lending unit, is also working to create securities,
according to two people with knowledge of the business, who
asked not to be identified because the information is private.  Blackstone Offering  Wells Fargo spokeswoman  Elise Wilkinson  and  John Dillard , a
spokesman for Cerberus, declined to comment. American Homes 4
Rent Chief Financial Officer Peter Nelson didn’t return calls.  The Blackstone offering is linked to homes in five states
across the U.S., focused in areas that suffered among the
largest declines during the recession, according to deal
documents distributed to investors. Houses in Phoenix,  Arizona 
account for 34 percent of the pool, the highest concentration,
followed by Riverside, California with 17.2 percent of the deal.
Rental rates range from $501-per-month to $3,250-per-month, the
documents show.  Today’s Flavor  “It is certainly the flavor du jour,” said Ed Shugrue,
CEO of Talmage LLC, which oversees $2 billion of commercial
property debt. “If you’re going to participate as a bond buyer
it’s better to participate early and with a marquee sponsor like
Blackstone,” he said. “The first few deals of a new asset-class always have the best pricing and best collateral for
investors.”  Issuance of securities backed by rental homes has the
potential to exceed $70 billion a year by 2016, said KBW’s Rahmani. Sales of CMBS, linked to hotel, skyscraper and office
debt, are expected to be about $70 billion this year, according
to Credit Suisse.  Home purchases by institutional investors reached a record
high of 14 percent of sales in September and all-cash buyers
accounted for almost half of transactions as the share of first-time homeowners continued to shrink, according to an Oct. 24
report by RealtyTrac.  Many rentals owned by limited partnerships or small
landlords have little or no debt and could become a source for
future mortgage-backed securitizations, KBW’s Rahmani said.  ‘Liquid Market’  Just 10 percent of existing rental homes, with an average
value of $150,000, would create about $140 billion in potential
debt for securities, according to Rahmani. Debt on 5 percent of
the 5.3 million homes sold this year would represent $37 billion
in potential securitizations at 70 percent loan-to-value of
$200,000 per home, Rahmani said.  It could become a big liquid market “because there’s a lot
of single-family rentals,” said Lewis Ranieri, who helped
pioneer mortgage-backed securities in the 1980s at Salomon
Brothers Inc. and now runs a real-estate finance firm.  Still, the market is untested and comes with challenges,
said Ranieri.  “Because a house was never built to be rented, the wear
and tear on the house makes it prohibitive to keep renting over
a period of time because the cost of the rehab becomes
overwhelming,” he said. “There’s no historic evidence of long
term single-family rental.”  Fitch Objection  Fitch Ratings  won’t consider AAA grades on the debt because
of concerns about investors’ recovery prospects in the event of
a bankruptcy and the lack of a track record that owners can
profitably manage large numbers of scattered homes, according to
an Oct. 29 note by analysts Suzanne Mistretta, Dan Chambers and
Rui Pereira in New York.  The transaction consists of a single loan from Deutsche
Bank secured by mortgages on the properties and an equity pledge
by Blackstone’s single-family rental unit, Invitation Homes,
according to a deal document. “Unless the structure involves
mortgages, we would not likely be able to get beyond the Baa
threshold,” Kruti Muni, an analyst with the New York ratings
firm, said in an e-mail last week.  Wall Street bankers have stepped up lending to single-family home landlords since last year, when Citigroup Inc.
extended a $245 million line of credit to Waypoint Homes Inc. In
addition to Blackstone, Deutsche Bank has also extended credit
to landlords including Progressive Residential LP,  Apollo Global
Management LLC (APO)  and Five Ten Capital LLC.  Credit Lines  American Homes 4 Rent (AMH) , an Agoura Hills, California-based
landlord founded by billionaire B. Wayne Hughes, had a $670
million credit facility from Wells Fargo as of June 30.  American
Residential Properties Inc. (ARPI) , a single-family rental REIT, has a
credit facility from Citigroup. Colony announced a $500 million
line of credit from JPMorgan in September with an accordion
feature that could double its size to $1 billion.  Firms including American Homes 4 Rent have also tapped the
equity markets for capital. The company rose 0.4 percent to
$15.72 at 11:53 a.m. in New York.  Silver Bay Realty Trust Corp. (SBY) ,
which got a loan in May from Bank of America Corp. and JPMorgan,
rose 0.2 percent to $15.55.  For now, Blackstone is helping itself and the wider
industry.  “This is a real estate asset class that’s here to stay,”
 Laurie Goodman , director of the housing finance policy center at
the Urban Institute, said in a telephone interview. “This is
one of the early attempts to put financing on it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Heather Perlberg in New York at 
 hperlberg@bloomberg.net ;
John Gittelsohn in  Los Angeles  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Mulholland in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  