-- Doha Bank Targets Tripling Overseas Profit Share on Asia Growth
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 2013-10-31T02:41:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/doha-bank-targets-tripling-overseas-profit-share-on-asia-growth.html
Doha Bank QSC, Qatar’s fifth-largest
lender by assets, aims to triple profit from overseas to as much
as 30 percent of net income by 2015 as trade and investment
between  Persian Gulf states  and Asia increase.  The bank’s expansion, excluding acquisitions, is expected
to raise profit earned abroad from about 10 percent now, Chief
Executive Officer  Raghavan Seetharaman  said in an interview in
Hong Kong today.  Doha Bank joins  Qatari lenders  expanding overseas to
compensate for limited growth prospects in a country of  2
million people . The lender is seeking branch licenses in India
and China, which top its list of foreign markets to establish a
foothold in, said Seetharaman.  “If you go to countries like India, you need distribution
channels,” he said. “There could be acquisition opportunities
as well. I’m not ruling that out, provided we get a license.”  The bank today opened a representative office in Hong Kong,
adding to its office in Shanghai. It also has representative
offices in Singapore, Japan, Australia and South Korea,
according to its website.  Net income  climbed 5.1 percent to 1.3 billion riyals ($357
million) last year. Third-quarter profit rose 2.5 percent 328.6
million riyals, the Doha-based company said this month.  Doha Bank plans to issue a 2 billion-riyal Tier 1 perpetual
bond by the end of March to bolster lending and fund expansion
abroad. It attracted 2.8 billion riyals in a rights offer in
March and in May reiterated plans to sell shares in London.  Qatar National Bank SAQ, the nation’s biggest, agreed in
December to buy 77 percent of Societe Generale SA’s Egyptian
unit, while Commercial Bank of Qatar QSC, the second largest,
agreed in March to buy a 71 percent stake in Turkey’s
 Alternatifbank AS. (ALNTF)   Shares of Doha Bank jumped 18 percent this year, compared
with a 17 percent gain for the country’s benchmark  QE Index. (DSM)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Tong in  Hong Kong  at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  