-- Euro Falls Most in 6 Months as CPI Fuels ECB Bets
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2013-10-31T21:22:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/dollar-holds-gains-versus-euro-before-jobs-factory-data.html
The euro slid the most in six months
versus the dollar after the inflation rate in the region
unexpectedly cooled, fueling speculation the  European Central
Bank  will cut  interest rates  to spur the economy.  The shared currency fell against most of its 16 major peers
as separate data showed unemployment in the euro area climbed to
a record 12.2 percent. The yen pared its first gain in five days
versus the dollar as a U.S. business barometer unexpectedly
jumped.  Brazil ’s real dropped the most in more than two months
as the nation’s budget deficit widened more than forecast.  “With inflation already running well below the ECB’s 2
percent target, any cooler-than-expected inflation reading is
probably going to set off alarm bells that will result in the
ECB becoming increasingly worried about the strength of the
euro,”  Omer Esiner , chief market analyst in  Washington  at the
currency brokerage Commonwealth Foreign Exchange Inc., said in a
phone interview.  Europe ’s 17-nation currency slid 1.1 percent to $1.3584 at
5 p.m. New York time and fell as much as 1.2 percent in the
biggest intraday drop since April 17. The euro sank 1.3 percent
to 133.60 yen.  Japan ’s currency gained 0.2 percent to 98.36 per
dollar after depreciating yesterday to 98.68, the weakest level
since Oct. 17.  The euro pared a monthly advance versus the dollar to 0.4
percent. It has gained 3 percent this year. The U.S. currency
was little changed versus the yen in October and has climbed 13
percent since the start of the year.  Volatility Rises  A measure of price swings among the currencies of Group of
Seven nations increased to the highest in two weeks. JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s G7  Volatility Index  rose to 7.98 percent, the
highest since Oct. 17, after sliding to 7.48 percent Oct. 28,
the lowest level since Dec. 21. The 2013 average is 9.37
percent.  Brazil’s real dropped against all of its 16 most-traded
counterparts after the country’s budget gap increased more than
forecast, adding to speculation the nation’s credit rating will
be downgraded. The currency lost 2.2 percent to 2.2398 per
dollar and slid as much as 2.3 percent, the most since Aug. 21.  The Canadian dollar rose versus all of its major peers
after the nation’s economy expanded 0.3 percent in August,
topping forecasts for a 0.1 percent increase. The currency,
nicknamed the loonie, gained 0.5 percent to C$1.0431 per dollar.  Krona Falls  Sweden’s krona dropped against the dollar and euro as
investors bet euro-area inflation at its slowest in almost four
years will weigh on the nation’s economy and prompt the central
bank to cut interest rates. It slid 1.4 percent to 6.4824 per
greenback, fell 0.3 percent to 8.8051 to the common currency and
declined 0.7 percent to 1.0908 per Norwegian krone.  An index of Swedish  manufacturing  declined to 54.5 in
October from 56 the previous month, economists in a Bloomberg
 survey  forecast before data tomorrow.  “The latest underperformance of krona versus euro, dollar
and especially against the Norwegian krone is fundamentals
catching up with the otherwise fairly resilient krona,” said
 Valentin Marinov , head of European Group-of-10 foreign-exchange
strategy at Citigroup Inc. in  London .  The euro area’s annual  consumer-price  index declined to 0.7
percent in October, the least since November 2009, from 1.1
percent last month, the European Union’s  statistics office  said.
A Bloomberg News survey estimated it would stay at 1.1 percent.  The central bank has said there’s a “subdued outlook” for
price growth in the region, and the October data mark the ninth
month the rate has been less than its 2 percent ceiling. Policy
makers meet Nov. 7.  December Cut  The ECB will cut its  refinancing rate  to 0.25 percent from
0.5 percent at its meeting in December, according to new
forecasts published in a client note by Greg Fuzesi, an
economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in London. The weaker-than-forecast CPI numbers raise “very big” questions about the
outlook for inflation and the ECB’s response, Fuzesi said.  The euro has gained 6.1 percent this year, the best
performer of 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar has advanced 2.7
percent, while the yen, the biggest loser, has slid 11 percent.  Japan’s currency rose against most major peers after the
policy-setting U.S. Federal Open Market Committee said yesterday
officials see improvement in the economy while maintaining
monthly bond purchases as they await evidence of further gains.  The  Federal Reserve  buys $85 billion of bonds a month to
push down long-term yields and spur growth. A Bloomberg survey
taken Oct. 17-18 forecast it would slow purchases in March.  Challenged Market  “The FOMC statement has challenged the market belief that
the Fed would wait until 2014 before tapering,” said  Daragh Maher , a currency strategist at HSBC Holdings Plc based in
London. “This is bad for the risk-on mood that had been
prevailing and has lent consequent support to the traditionally
safe-haven yen.”  The Bloomberg U.S.  Dollar Index  rose for a fifth day as the
MNI Chicago Report’s  business gauge  rose to 65.9 this month, the
fastest pace since 2011, from 55.7 in September. Readings above
50 signal growth. A Bloomberg  survey  forecast 55. The dollar
gauge  increased  as much as 0.4 percent to 1,011.73, a two-week
high.  Trading in over-the-counter foreign-exchange options
totaled $41 billion, from $38 billion yesterday, according to
data reported by U.S. banks to the Depository Trust Clearing
Corp. and tracked by Bloomberg. Volume in options on the euro-dollar  exchange rate  amounted to $9.4 billion, the largest share
of trades at 23 percent. Options on the dollar-yen rate totaled
$6.5 billion, or 16 percent.  Euro-greenback options trading was 34 percent more than the
average for the past five Thursdays at a similar time in the
day, according to Bloomberg analysis. Dollar-yen options trading
was 23 percent below average.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in  New York  at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  