-- Technip Cuts Targets as Third-Quarter Net Misses Estimates
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2013-10-31T06:01:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/technip-cuts-targets-as-third-quarter-net-misses-estimates.html
Technip SA (TEC) , Europe’s biggest
oilfield-services provider by market value, cut some financial
targets after missing estimates for third-quarter profit.  Net income  climbed to 150 million euros ($205 million) from
147 million euros a year earlier, the Paris-based company said
today in a statement. This was lower than the 173 million-euro
average of 11 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Technip lowered full-year targets for subsea operating
margin and revenue. Sales will miss the the upper end of a range
set earlier the year.  “Technip’s performance was contrasted,” Chief Executive
Officer Thierry Pilenko said in the statement. Revenue and
profit were held back by currency exchange rates, he said.  Technip supplies pipes, platforms and equipment to energy
producers to develop new fields and counter output declines at
older ones. Investment in exploration and production may rise as
much as 8 percent next year as companies seek to add reserves
and expand output from  Norway  to  Australia , the IFP Energies
Nouvelles policy group said this month.  Technip’s contract backlog rose to 15.9 billion euros,
compared with a record 15.2 billion euros at the end of June,
with an intake of 3.1 billion euros during the quarter, it said.  Technip full-year sales will be between 9.3 billion euros
and 9.4 billion euros this year. It expects an operating margin
in the subsea division of around 14 percent to around around 4.1
billion euros in revenue. The margin at its onshore-offshore
unit will be 6.5 percent to 7 percent with sales of around 5.2
billion euros.  Previous Targets  Technip’s previous targets were to increase sales as much
as 16 percent to 9.5 billion euros this year. It expected an
operating margin at its subsea division of about 15 percent to
as much as 4.6 billion euros in revenue.  Technip won orders in the third quarter for pipe supplies
to the Engina field in Nigeria, liquefied natural gas plants in
 China  and the U.S. as well as for the world’s deepest gas
pipeline in the Gulf of Mexico.  Saipem SpA (SPM) , Technip’s largest competitor, reported a 60
percent drop in third-quarter profit earlier this week and is
forecasting an annual net loss of as much as 350 million euros.
The Italian company recorded a two-thirds decline in new
contracts in the period compared with the previous three months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  