-- Technip Falls After Profit Misses Estimates, Targets Cut
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2013-10-31T10:02:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/technip-falls-after-profit-misses-estimates-targets-cut.html
Technip SA (TEC) , Europe’s largest
oilfield-services provider by market value, fell the most in two
years in Paris trading after missing profit estimates and
lowering financial targets.  Technip dropped as much as 8.1 percent, the biggest decline
since September 2011, and was down 7.1 percent at 79.85 euros as
of 10:59 a.m. local time. Trading volumes were already more than
triple the three-month daily average.  The French company has suffered from unfavorable foreign-exchange rates, curbing profit from supplying pipes, platforms
and equipment to oil explorers and producers. The completion of
North Sea projects may make it more dependent on the Gulf of
Mexico, where it sees lower profitability in the fourth quarter.  Net income  climbed to 150 million euros ($205 million) in
the third quarter from 147 million euros a year earlier, Technip
said today in a statement. That missed the 173 million-euro
average of 11 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “Third-quarter results came in weaker than expected,”
 Bertrand Hodee , a research analyst at Raymond James Euro
Equities, said in a report. He cut his rating on the stock to
 market perform  from outperform.  Technip lowered full-year forecasts for operating margin
and revenue at its subsea division, and raised its outlook for
the onshore-offshore unit. Total sales will miss the upper end
of a range set earlier this year, it said.  “Technip’s performance was contrasted,” Chief Executive
Officer Thierry Pilenko said in the statement. Revenue and
profit were held back by currency rates, he said.  E&P Investment  The company, based in Paris, supplies equipment to energy
producers to develop new fields and counter output declines at
older deposits. Investment in exploration and production may
rise as much as 8 percent next year as companies seek to add
reserves and expand output from  Norway  to  Australia , the  IFP
Energies Nouvelles  policy group said this month.  Technip’s contract backlog rose to a record 15.9 billion
euros, compared with 15.2 billion euros at the end of June, with
an intake of 3.1 billion euros during the quarter, it said.  Full-year sales will be 9.3 billion euros to 9.4 billion
euros, down from a previous  target  of as much as 9.5 billion
euros. It expects an operating margin in the subsea division of
about 14 percent, with about 4.1 billion euros in revenue. The
margin at its onshore-offshore unit will be 6.5 percent to 7
percent with sales of about 5.2 billion euros.  Technip previously forecast a subsea operating margin of
about 15 percent with as much as 4.6 billion euros in revenue,
and a margin of 6 percent to 7 percent for the onshore-offshore
division for revenue of as much as 5.1 billion euros.  Positive Trend  “For the medium term we are confident that the trend for
both segments -- subsea and onshore-offshore -- remains
positive,” Pilenko said on a conference call. Energy companies
will raise spending next year on exploration and production,
according to the CEO, who said Technip may give an outlook for
2014 at the end of December.  The company also said today it won two orders valued at
$730 million for the TEN project off  Ghana . In the third
quarter, it received orders for pipe supplies to the Engina
field in Nigeria, liquefied natural gas plants in  China  and the
U.S., and the world’s deepest gas pipe in the Gulf of Mexico.  Saipem SpA (SPM) , Technip’s largest competitor, reported a 60
percent slump in third-quarter profit earlier this week and is
forecasting an annual net loss of as much as 350 million euros.
The Italian company recorded a two-thirds decline in new
contracts in the period compared with the previous three months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  