-- Egypt Awards 9 Oil and Gas Exploration Contracts, Ministry Says
-- B y   O l a   G a l a l
-- 2013-10-31T13:31:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/egypt-awards-9-oil-and-gas-exploration-contracts-ministry-says.html
Egypt  signed nine crude oil and
natural-gas exploration agreements with companies including
 Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  as the country struggles to revamp an
economy battered by almost three years of political turmoil.  The contracts, the first such awards since 2010, will
require minimum investment of $470 million, the country’s oil
ministry said in an e-mailed statement today. The contract
winners agreed to drill 15 wells in the  Gulf of Suez , the Sinai
and the eastern and western deserts, the ministry said.  Egypt is “still able to attract petroleum investments,”
Oil Minister Sherif Ismail said in the statement. “Egypt’s
potential for new petroleum finds,” helped bring companies to
seek the exploration deals, he said.  The Arab world’s most populous nation is struggling to
expand oil and gas exploration and attract international
companies to help meet surging domestic demand and declining
output after the toppling of President  Hosni Mubarak  in 2011
triggered an economic slowdown. The north African country, a gas
exporter, is also seeking bids to import liquefied natural gas
through a tender whose results have not yet been announced.  Pico International Petroleum, a unit of  Pico Holdings Inc. (PICO) ,
Greystone Oil and Gas LLP and Petzed Investment and Project
Management Ltd. were also among the winners of the exploration
contracts, who will receive total signing bonuses of $50
million, the Cairo-based ministry said today.  Egyptian state oil and gas companies owe foreign partners
around $6 billion for past fuel supplies that haven’t yet been
paid for, Ismail said in a phone interview yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ola Galal in Cairo at 
 ogalal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  