-- Einhorn Pares Bet on Stock Rally After ‘Relentless Climb’
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2013-10-31T16:50:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/einhorn-pares-bet-on-stock-rally-after-relentless-climb-.html
Hedge-fund manager  David Einhorn  is
taking a more conservative approach to his investment portfolio
even as wagers that stocks would fall caused his results to
trail the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Long positions, which gain on rising asset prices, exceeded
short bets by 35 percentage points as of Sept. 30 at  Greenlight
Capital Re Ltd. (GLRE) , the Cayman Islands-based reinsurer where
Einhorn oversees investments and serves as chairman. That’s down
from about 42 percentage points three months earlier, the  money
manager  said today on a conference call.  “As the market continued its relentless climb, we’ve
become more conservatively positioned,” he said.  Einhorn, who gained fame for betting on a decline in Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. stock before it collapsed in 2008, said
most of the portfolio gain in the quarter was from long holdings
in companies including  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  He said he was sticking with
his short positions, or wagers that a stock will decline,
including one on  Green Mountain Coffee Roasters Inc. (GMCR)   “The losses in the short book were broad-based, and we
continue to be short most of the companies that contributed to
the loss,” he said. “These include a variety of companies
which tend to have conventional valuations, rather than
speculative story stocks that have caused excessive pain for
other short sellers.”  Jelly Donuts  Greenlight Re’s investment portfolio returned 4 percent in
the third quarter and 12 percent in the first nine months of the
year, the company said yesterday in a filing. That compares with
 5.2 percent  and 20 percent for the  S&P 500 , including dividends.
The reinsurer’s portfolio was valued at $1.15 billion as of
Sept. 30.  Einhorn, 44, has sounded alarms about the climb in asset
prices for months. Last year he compared excessive stimulus by
central bankers with eating too many jelly donuts, a habit that
can be a threat to long-term health, according to an article
that quoted him in Grant’s Interest Rate Observer.  BlackRock Inc. Chief Executive Officer Laurence D. Fink
echoed some of that concern during a panel discussion in Chicago
this week. The head of the world’s largest money manager said
that Federal Reserve efforts are contributing to “bubble-like
markets.” He called on policy makers to begin to taper $85
billion a month in bond purchases that have caused the central
bank’s balance sheet to swell to more than  $3.8 trillion .  Stock Rally  Greenlight Re jumped 6.7 percent to $31.90 at 11:53 a.m.
after reporting late yesterday that third-quarter net income
climbed to $56.5 million from $46.1 million a year earlier. The
stock has advanced 38 percent this year.  Einhorn said he accumulated holdings in two new stocks in
the third quarter. One was a U.S. technology company that he
didn’t identify on the call. The other is  Osram Licht AG (OSR) , a
German lighting company that spun off from Siemens AG. He didn’t
disclose the size of either investment.  Osram has cut jobs and said it plans to shut or sell plants
as it targets 1 billion euros ($1.36 billion) in savings by
2015. The Munich-based company has advanced about 60 percent
since it began trading on July 8.  He also reiterated his support for Newbury, England-based
 Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  after saying earlier this month that it could
be an attractive takeover target for  AT&T Inc. (T)  The British
company agreed to sell its 45 percent stake in  Verizon Wireless 
to  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  for $130 billion in September.
Einhorn said that price was more than he expected.  “We continue to have exposure to Vodafone’s core business,
which currently trades below its less-exciting peers,” he said.
The remaining business will be “an attractive acquisition
target on its own.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  