-- Tel Aviv Bourse Taps Outsider Beinart as CEO After Trading Sinks
-- B y   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 2013-10-31T22:53:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/tel-aviv-stock-exchange-names-betting-market-s-chief-as-ceo.html
The  Tel Aviv  Stock Exchange turned to
an outsider to lead its effort to curb a plunge in trading
volume, tapping Yossi Beinart as chief executive officer after a
three-month search.  Beinart, currently the CEO of  IG Group Holdings Plc (IGG) ’s Nadex
market, will replace Ester Levanon, who resigned after seven
years as head of the exchange. While Beinart studied computer
science at the Hebrew University in  Jerusalem , he has spent more
than 20 years working at U.S.-based companies from brokerage
 Investment Technology Group Inc. (ITG)  to ShieldIP Inc., a provider of
flexible Digital Rights Protection solutions, according to a
resume posted on Chicago-based Nadex’s website.  Beinart will oversee trading of companies including  Teva
Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  and  Israel Chemicals Ltd. (ICL)  in a
nation where volume has plunged 44 percent between the start of
2010 and the end of last year. He is scheduled to start in the
post at the end of the year, joining from IG Group, which offers
a service known as spread betting that allows investors to wager
on market outcomes. The unit he leads, Nadex, lets customers bet
on prices for financial products such as Standard & Poor’s 500
Index futures and gold.  “He is an unknown to the local market,” Yaniv Pagot,
chief strategist at the Ayalon Group Ltd., an institutional
investor with 14 billion shekels ($4 billion) in assets, said
yesterday by phone after the appointment. “He has to build a
senior local team that understands the market and is respected
by its players. Without this, the romance will not succeed.”  Failed Bid  Levanon’s departure followed a failed bid for  Israel  to
join MSCI Inc.’s Europe index, which she said could have lured
$2 billion to the country. Trading volume in Israel has dwindled
since the country was raised to developed-market from from
emerging-market status at MSCI in May 2010. While Israel has
more active  startups  per capita than any country, the exchange
is failing to attract companies like Wix.com, a web platform
developer, which prefers a Nasdaq listing.  Israel’s TA-25 index has advanced 8.7 percent this year
compared with a 23 percent gain for the  S&P 500 Index , the
benchmark measure for U.S. shares.  “The new CEO has his work cut out for him,” Zach Herzog,
a Tel Aviv-based trader at Psagot Securities, a unit of Psagot
Investment House Ltd. that manages more than 178 billion
shekels, said by phone before the nomination. “Trading volumes
need to be increased, and the market needs to be made more
investable to foreign investors.”  Regulators, Exchange  Levanon and bourse Chairman Saul Bronfeld resigned amid a
feud between regulators and exchange officials over who is to
blame for the exchange’s troubles. Bronfeld, a former Bank of
Israel chief economist, cited government regulations and slower
economic growth for the exodus of investors and companies.
Israel Securities Authority Chairman Shmuel Hauser says the
bourse’s management is also responsible.  Nadex offers trading in binary options, a type of
derivative that investors can use to speculate on an event such
as the  S&P 500  rising above a certain value by a specific time
of day. Some of Nadex’s most-traded contracts include those
based on equity indexes, gold and currency pairs such as the
U.S. dollar and euro, according to the company’s daily trading
bulletin.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shoshanna Solomon in Tel Aviv at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  