-- Telenor Cuts Sales Forecast as Profit Trails Estimates
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g   a n d   S t e p h e n   T r e l o a r
-- 2013-10-31T09:18:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/telenor-cuts-sales-forecast-as-profit-misses-analysts-estimates.html
Telenor ASA (TEL) , the Nordic region’s
largest phone operator, reduced its full-year sales forecast
after posting earnings that missed analysts’ estimates amid
intensifying competition in its home markets. The stock fell.  Sales will grow 1 percent to 2 percent this year, excluding
acquisitions, the Fornebu, Norway-based carrier said today. In
July, it projected 2 percent to 4 percent. Third-quarter net
income rose 7.3 percent to 3.92 billion kroner ($662 million),
missing the 4.35 billion-krone average of analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  Sales growth, excluding acquisitions, slowed to 1 percent
in the third quarter as Nordic rivals cut prices to gain users
in a saturated market. To fight back, Chief Executive Officer
Jon Fredrik Baksaas is expanding the company’s wireless network
in the Nordic region and adding users in  Asia  and Eastern
Europe, while seeking to cut costs by 5 billion kroner by 2015.  “It’s a strong market but we have a lot of work to do,
especially in Norway, when it comes to rebalancing of prices up
against phenomenal volume growth,” Baksaas said at a press
conference in Fornebu.  The state-controlled company’s  shares  fell as much as 4.5
percent, the most since June, and declined 4.2 percent to 142.5
kroner at 10:13 a.m. in Oslo. The stock had jumped 33 percent
this year through yesterday.  Bulgaria, Myanmar  The carrier reiterated its forecast for a margin on
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
of about 34 percent of sales in 2013. In the third quarter,
Ebitda was 9.62 billion kroner, or 37 percent of sales. Analysts
estimated 9.61 billion kroner on average.  Total revenue rose 2.8 percent to 26 billion kroner,
compared with the 26.1 kroner projected by analysts on average,
helped by international expansion. Sales in  Norway , Telenor’s
 largest market  accounting for about a quarter of revenue,
slipped 2.6 percent to 6.27 billion kroner. Revenue in  Denmark 
declined 6.3 percent and sales in  Sweden  rose 1.8 percent.  This year, Telenor bought Globul, the second-largest mobile
carrier in Bulgaria, and also acquired one of the two national
licenses issued in Myanmar in June. The Myanmar license should
be issued by the end of the year, with services starting in
mid-2014, Telenor said.  Sales increased in  Thailand ,  Malaysia  and  Bangladesh  on
growth in subscribers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Treloar in Oslo at 
 streloar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  