-- Telephone-Bill Crackdown Looms for Carriers: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n a   S c i a u d o n e   a n d   A n n a   E d g e r t o n
-- 2013-10-31T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/telephone-bill-crackdown-looms-for-carriers-corporate-brazil.html
Brazil  is stepping up efforts to
improve mobile-communication services, the biggest source of
consumer complaints, by letting users go online to cancel
service and by making billing easier to understand.  Phone regulator Anatel will vote on new rules for  customer
service  next month, said Joao Rezende, the agency’s president,
in an interview. Difficulty canceling accounts, billing disputes
and bad customer service make up 78 percent of 2.1 million
gripes filed from January to August this year, according to
Anatel.  Oi SA (OIBR4)  would be hardest hit by new rules, according to
Coinvalores, since its customers complain the most -- twice as
much as users of market leader  Telefonica Brasil SA. (VIVT4)   Phone companies are facing increasing pressure from the
government to improve quality as more than 8 billion reais ($3.7
billion) in fines have accumulated against the four primary
operators. Rezende said Anatel won’t let up on regulatory
oversight even as competition squeezes profit margins for the
carriers, from Telefonica Brasil SA to  Tim Participacoes SA. (TIMP3)   “Anatel won’t leave quality in second place to take care
of shareholder dividends -- there’s no logic in that,” Rezende,
whose term ends Nov. 4, said in an interview in  Sao Paulo  this
week. “Companies with better customer service have better
profits, more market share, more credibility.”  Blue Porchat  The customer service of phone companies is a common source
of frustration among Brazilians. Comedian Fabio Porchat has
gotten more than 11 million views on YouTube for a  clip  in which
he endures repeated transfers and excuses as he tries
unsuccessfully to cancel his phone line. He is covered in blue
paint in the video, like the Blue Man Group characters who do
ads for Tim.  The new rules will require operators to simplify billing,
set time limits for customer service and allow clients to check
their accounts and cancel service online. Investments in
attending to customers, whose demand for services such as
wireless  Internet access  will grow exponentially, is imperative,
Rezende said.  Complaints have increased at all operators since last year,
according to data from Anatel. Oi has a rate of 0.67 per 1,000
customers, compared to 0.30 per 1,000 for Telefonica Brasil.
Among them is the case of an unnamed company that received a
phone bill for 18,000 reais for calls to  Yugoslavia , a country
that hasn’t existed since 1991, said Anatel’s superintendent of
consumer relations, Elisa Vieira Leonel Peixoto, at an event in
 Rio de Janeiro  on Oct. 23.  ‘Long Way’  The biggest complaint is about billing, and often consumers
simply don’t understand the plan they’ve signed up for, Peixoto
said.  “What really irks customers is expectations related to
sales and that has a long way to go and evolve,” Peixoto said.  Oi, the smallest wireless provider of the top four
telecommunications companies, will be hit the hardest because of
its high rate of complaints, said Marco Aurelio Barbosa, an
analyst with Coinvalores in Sao Paulo. Oi had 33,209 complaints
in June, the most recent month for which data is available,
according to Anatel. America Movil SAB’s Claro brand was second
with 28,813, followed by Tim Participacoes SA with 24,541
complaints and Telefonica’s Vivo with 22,975.  “The poorer-quality carriers are going to suffer if one
barrier to exit is lifted,” making it easier for customers to
leave, said Richard Dineen, a New York-based analyst at HSBC
Holdings Plc.  ‘Direct Attack’  Oi, which is merging with Portugal Telecom SGPS SA, will
put better 3G coverage in place by next year, said Chief
Executive Officer  Zeinal Bava  on an Oct. 2 call with analysts.
The company is also planning a “direct attack on churn,” or
the rate at which users leave the company, with bundled
offerings.  Bava said he will improve the company’s situation through a
reduction in annual investments and a focus on efficiency and
productivity. Oi is investing about 6 billion reais this year,
compared with 24.3 billion reais for Vivo between 2011 and 2014
and 10.7 billion reais for Tim through 2015.  Oi, based in Rio de Janeiro, declined to comment, citing
its quiet period ahead of the Nov. 13 release of its third-quarter earnings results.  Regulators need to work on simplifying rules on network
infrastructure to encourage more investment, not on inventing
new constraints, said Leila Abraham Loria, executive director of
institutional relations and regulation at Telefonica Brasil, at
the Rio de Janeiro event this month.  “Regulations won’t resolve this,” she said. “Punishing
operators is not the right decision right now, and it won’t help
the consumer.”  Better Service  A press official for Mexico City-based  America Movil (AMXL)  had no
immediate comment. Rio de Janeiro-based Tim didn’t respond to e-mail requests for comment.  Tim has no problem investing, and must provide better
customer service at its call center, said Ana Cristina Menezes
Oliveira, quality director at Tim, at the Rio de Janeiro event.  “Billing is the biggest issue for consumers because it
hurts their wallets,” Oliveira said. Quality issues like
dropped calls result from complexities including being
prohibited from installing new antennas in municipalities, Loria
said.  Telefonica Brasil, based in Sao Paulo, invests
“significantly” every year, Chief Executive Officer Antonio Carlos Valente said in an interview in Brasilia yesterday. While
Vivo has the fewest complaints in the country, it has the most
complaints in Sao Paulo, its core market, according to the Sao
Paulo consumer protection agency, Procon.  Technology Changes  “For a telco, it’s part of our day-to-day,” Valente said.
“A company typically invests about 15 percent of revenue every
year -- it’s a capital-intensive sector in which technology
changes quickly.”  Vivo stands to gain the most from the new rules, Barbosa
said. Last year, Tim, Oi and Claro were prohibited for about 10
days from selling new lines because of quality problems.  “Telefonica Brasil is a step ahead of the others, which is
fundamental,” Barbosa said. “This will reinforce the need for
companies to invest.”  Telefonica Brasil was little changed this year through
yesterday, compared with a 39 percent increase for Tim and a 54
percent decline at Oi. The Ibovespa benchmark index fell 11
percent over the period.  Most Profitable  Telefonica Brasil is the most  profitable  of the Brazil-based carriers, with a margin of 35 percent for earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization in the four most
recent quarters reported. That compares with Oi’s 30 percent and
Tim’s 26 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Telefonica Brasil is the biggest by sales, with 34.4
billion reais over the past four quarters, compared with Oi’s
28.5 billion reais and Tim’s 20 billion reais.  “Quality for consumers is fundamental,” Rezende said.
“It’s evident that the transformations of the industry are a
challenge for Anatel, for infrastructure and for companies.
There’s not much of a choice -- they can’t stop investing.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christiana Sciaudone in Sao Paulo at 
 csciaudone@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Edgerton in Brasilia at 
 aedgerton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  