-- Elton John Honored by Fans, Citi’s O’Neill, Rockefellers
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n
-- 2013-10-31T08:14:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/elton-john-honored-by-fans-citi-s-o-neill-rockfellers.html
Elton John last night said that he
had not been a very nice person for a long time.  “I was a self-absorbed, alcoholic drug addict for 16
years,” he said. “I’m OK now.”  John was at the Rockefeller Foundation’s “Celebration of
American Philanthropy,” where he received a Lifetime
Achievement Award for the work of his AIDS-focused foundation.  The musician sat opposite Michael O’Neill, the chairman of
 Citigroup Inc. (C) , a fan of “Candle in the Wind,” and  Shaun Donovan , secretary of housing and urban development, who said he
preferred “Rocket Man.”  “I always cried when I heard it as a kid,” Donovan said.  Thomas Perez , secretary of labor, said he likes John’s song
“Goodbye Yellow Brick Road.”  The event drew the president of the Rockefeller Foundation,
Judith Rodin, and Rockefellers including Senator  Jay Rockefeller , West Virginia Democrat, and David Rockefeller Jr.,
the foundation’s chairman.  “This organization has a long association with people
named John,” David Rockefeller Jr.,told the guest of honor, 
referring to his great-grandfather,John D. Rockefeller, and 
grandfather, John Rockefeller Jr.  John said he was inspired by the Rockefeller Foundation’s
historic campaign to eradicate hookworm and other diseases.  Supreme Court Justice Sandra Day O’Connor also attended the
event.  Earlier in the day at the U.S. Capitol, the Who’s singer
 Roger Daltrey  performed for an audience that included Speaker of
the House John Boehner, Secretary of State John Kerry, House
Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, and Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell.  The occasion was a dedication of the new bust of  Winston Churchill , the former U.K. prime minister whose mother was
American.  (Stephanie Green is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Mark Beech  on rock music,  Frederik
Balfour  on Hong Kong art,  Greg Evans  on U.S. television, 
 James Russell  on architecture and  Amanda Gordon’s  Scene Last 
Night.  To contact the writer on this story:
 Stephanie Green  in Washington at  sgreen57@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @stephlgreen.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 