-- Ten Cate Finds Solace in Pirate-Proof Shelters, Lightweight BMWs
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-10-31T13:46:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/ten-cate-finds-solace-in-pirate-proof-shelters-lightweight-bmws.html
Koninklijke Ten Cate NV (KTC) , maker of
plastic composites used in Airbus A350 jets, is exploring ways
to capture demand for automotive composites as carmakers
including  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  seek lightweight parts.  The Dutch company is working on deepening ties with
carmakers, and options include establishing a joint venture,
Chief Executive Officer Loek de Vries said in an interview. Ten
Cate could make a financial investment, he said, ahead of an
official announcement that will be made in the “near future.”  The effort reflects the allure of the automotive industry
that’s embracing composites as it moves toward electric cars
that require lightweight chassis. That’s in contrast to
governments that have scrimped on spending and delayed orders
for composite-based armor used in tanks and soldier uniforms.  The company, which this year acquired thermoset composite
maker Amber to bolster its automotive offering, has already
built a number of composite partnerships with companies such as
 BASF SE. (BAS)   Ten Cate sales fell 1 percent in the third quarter, driven
large by a slow down in  government spending . As military demand
for armor wanes with the withdrawal of forces from Iraq and
 Afghanistan , the Almelo, the Netherlands-based company has been
looking to tap growth markets including supply of composites to
the  aerospace industry .  Defense Market  De Vries said he’s seen an upturn in enquiries from
shipfitters looking to add Ten Cate’s armor plating to create
safe rooms on vessels in case of pirate attacks. That’s on top
of civil demand for bullet-proof vests spurred by miner riots in
 South Africa .  Pirate-proofing ships and the automotive industry will help
lift profit next year,  De Vries  said. Ten Cate will also see
delayed defense orders come through to help bolster earnings, he
said.  Another growth area for the company is aerospace
composites, particularly once the Airbus A350 that first flew in
June enters higher production volumes, de Vries said. Japan and
 China  also are showing interest, with a particular eye on uni-directional tape technology Ten Cate is still reluctant to share
to protect its expertise.  China is also among the customers showing interest in
composite ballistic armor for ships, particularly for coast
guard vessels, De Vries said. U.S. restrictions have blocked
such contracts.  Ten Cate is eyeing the 2022 World Cup to be held in Qatar
as a sales prospect for its division making woven synthetic
grass systems used in Dutch top soccer division in the
Netherlands.  The  World Cup  prospects come after Ten Cate has shift its
focus in the market to be not just a material supplier but sell
directly to customers to better market its higher technology
fibers that come with a price premium.  The grass sector, once earmarked as a potential disposal
candidate, is now considered core with de Vries saying there’s
no interest in selling the unit. “There is too much potential
in there,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  