-- Energy Future Said to Position to Pay $270 Million Coupon
-- B y   R i c h a r d   B r a v o   a n d   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 2013-10-31T13:16:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/energy-future-said-to-position-toward-paying-270-million-coupon.html
Energy Future Holdings Corp. is
positioning itself to make interest payments of about $270
million as talks with creditors over a possible bankruptcy
approach a Nov. 1 deadline, according to two people with
knowledge of the situation.  The Texas power producer’s board is planning to pay the
coupons to junior  bondholders  unless an agreement is reached,
said the people, who asked not to be identified because the
discussions are private. The board still has until tonight in
 New York  to decide to skip the payment, after which Energy
Future would have a 30-day grace period to either release the
funds or file for bankruptcy, one of the people said.  Creditors are in discussions with the Dallas-based company
over how to divide ownership and new  debt  in a restructuring.
Senior lenders want the target of the largest leveraged buyout
ever to file for Chapter 11 protection without making the
payments, which would cut into their recoveries.  Secured lenders including  Oaktree Capital Group LLC (OAK) ,  Apollo
Global Management LLC (APO)  and Centerbridge Capital Partners LLC have
submitted a new proposal seeking a consensual reorganization
plan, the other person said.  The lenders have been seeking to take majority ownership of
a restructured company. Confidentiality agreements that allow
investors to access private information to facilitate the talks
lapse today, one of the people said.  Adam McGill, an Energy Future spokesman, didn’t immediately
return telephone calls seeking comment on the discussions from
yesterday’s board meeting.  Gas Prices  Texas Competitive Electric Holdings Co.’s $1.83 billion of
10.25 percent bonds maturing in November 2015, which are due to
pay interest on Nov. 1, jumped 3 cents today to 5.375 cents on
the dollar at 9:08 a.m. in New York, according to Trace, the
bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority.  The Wall Street Journal, citing unidentified people,
reported late yesterday on its website that the board met
throughout the day and was leaning toward making the payment.  Meeting the interest payment would potentially buy Energy
Future until next March to continue negotiating with creditors
to gain a consensus, one of the people said.  KKR & Co., Goldman Sachs Capital Partners and TPG Capital
led the $48 billion takeover of the former TXU Corp. in 2007.
The investment was predicated on rising  gas prices . Instead,
they fell as the development of hydraulic fracturing created a
surge in U.S. gas supplies, triggering 10 straight quarterly
 losses  at the company since 2011.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Bravo in New York at 
 rbravo5@bloomberg.net ;
Beth Jinks in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  