-- Energy Future Creditor Talks Said to Fail as Payment Planned
-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n ,   B e t h   J i n k s   a n d   R i c h a r d   B r a v o
-- 2013-10-31T20:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/energy-future-creditor-talks-said-to-end-bond-payment-planned.html
Energy Future Holdings Corp.
creditor negotiations failed and the power producer seeking to
restructure almost $44 billion in debt will make an interest
payment due tomorrow, people familiar with the situation said.  Talks fell apart after various  creditor groups  to the
former TXU Corp. were unable to reach a consensus for a
reorganization, said the people, who asked not to be identified
because the deliberations were private. The distribution of $270
million in bond coupons buys the Dallas-based company and its
lenders at least several months to negotiate a fresh deal with
broader support while also raising the specter that they’ll be
unable to reach mutual terms.  Investment firms from Avenue Capital Group LLC to
Centerbridge Capital Partners LLC had been working since at
least March on a bankruptcy plan for Energy Future, the target
of a 2007 leveraged buyout that was the largest ever. Secured
lenders, who are senior to the other debt holders and would be
paid out first in a reorganization, didn’t want the coupon
payments made as the funds go to more junior creditors.  The coupon payment shows “they need more time to
negotiate,” Marc Gross, a New York-based money manager at RS
Investments in New York who oversees about $4.5 billion in
fixed-income funds, wrote in an e-mail.  Adam McGill, a representative for Energy Future, declined
to comment.  Bonds Rise  Texas Competitive’s $1.83 billion of 10.25 percent bonds
maturing in November 2015, which are due to pay interest on Nov.
1, jumped 4.625 cents to 7 cents on the dollar as of 4:33 p.m.
in New York, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system
of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. That’s the
highest level since July 24.  Texas’ largest electricity provider was debating whether to
make the payment or file for bankruptcy, depending on the
progress made in creditor talks. Debt holders have been locked
in a series of confidential negotiations to determine how to
divide ownership and new  debt  in a restructured company. At
least five of those proposals were rejected.  Lenders including  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO) ,  Oaktree
Capital Group LLC (OAK)  and Centerbridge are part of a $19.5 billion
class of first-lien debt holders that offered a proposal to
compensate lenders at the Energy Future Intermediate unit with
$800 million, two people said.  Goldman, KKR  An unsecured group, which includes York Capital Management
LP, Avenue and P. Schoenfeld Asset Management LP, demanded more
than three times that amount, two of the people said. The
committees couldn’t resolve the difference.  KKR & Co., Goldman Sachs Capital Partners and TPG Capital
led the LBO, which was an investment predicated on rising gas
prices. Instead, they fell as the development of hydraulic
fracturing created a surge in U.S. gas supplies, triggering 10
straight quarterly  losses  at the company since 2011.  KKR and TPG both value their investment in the power
provider at 5 cents on the dollar, a plunge of 95 percent,
according to a July 26 regulatory filing by KKR and a TPG
quarterly report obtained by Bloomberg.  TXU’s acquirers paid $69.25 a share, a 15 percent premium
when the deal was announced on Feb. 26, 2007. Natural gas prices
plunged 72 percent from a July 2008 peak as shale drilling
expanded, depressing rates the company could charge for its
power. Power prices depend on gas costs in most markets because
plants that use the fuel usually provide the marginal power
needed to meet demand. Coal is easy to store, and plants powered
by it are usually slow to be turned on and off.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Beth Jinks in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net ;
Richard Bravo in New York at 
 rbravo5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  