-- Tepco Can’t Manage Fukushima Alone, Ruling Party Says
-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 2013-10-31T10:26:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/tepco-can-t-manage-fukushima-alone-ruling-party-says.html
Japan ’s government must take a
bigger hand in cleaning up Fukushima and that may involve
breaking up  Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501) , the operator of the
wrecked nuclear plant, an advisory panel to the country’s ruling
party said in a draft report.  Drastic internal improvement, including cost controls, must
be made at the utility, the panel said in a document given to
reporters before a meeting in Tokyo today. The government must
be responsible for devising how the decommissioning at the
 Fukushima nuclear plant  proceeds, the panel also advised.  Regardless of whether the government decides on a partial
breakup, a full breakup or another form of restructuring, a
decision must be expedited because  Tokyo Electric , known as
Tepco, is unable to manage the contaminated water flowing from
the wrecked reactors while also overseeing their
decommissioning, the report said.  Whatever structure the cleanup assumes, “I think at the
center it will be Tepco people shouldering the burden of the
work,” President Naomi Hirose told reporters today after the
company’s release of first-half earnings.  The panel, consisting of lawmakers from Prime Minister
Shinzo Abe’s  Liberal Democratic Party , today compiled a set of
proposals to be completed next week. Led by Tadamori Oshima, the
panel also suggested that the government must take
responsibility for finding storage space for Fukushima’s nuclear
waste in the midterm.  Pressure Mounting  Thirty months after the March 2011 disaster, pressure is
mounting on the government to take charge of the Tokyo Electric-coordinated cleanup at Fukushima. Weekly reports of contaminated
water leaks and mishaps at the station jar with Abe’s pledge to
the Olympic Committee in September that the situation is “under
control.”  Tepco is a utility serving about 29 million households and
companies in the Tokyo metropolitan area.  About 400 metric tons of contaminated groundwater flows
into the ocean from the Fukushima site every day. Tepco is
scheduled next month to begin extracting spent fuel rods from
one of the reactors buildings, a task that precedes the removal
of melted uranium cores in three other reactors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuriy Humber in  Tokyo  at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  