-- Tepco Split Looms as Utility Lacks Motive to Fix Fukushima
-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r   a n d   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a
-- 2013-11-01T05:20:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/tepco-split-looms-as-utility-lacks-motive-to-clean-up-fukushima.html
More than 30 months after an
earthquake triggered the world’s worst nuclear disaster in a
quarter of a century, Prime Minister Shinzo Abe is being told by
his own party that  Japan ’s response is failing.  Plant operator  Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501)  alone isn’t up to
the task of managing the cleanup and decommissioning of the
atomic station in Fukushima. That’s the view of Tadamori Oshima,
head of a  task force  in charge of Fukushima’s recovery and
former vice president of Abe’s Liberal  Democratic Party .  “I’d like them to form a strong, unified authority” to
deal with the nuclear disaster, Oshima told reporters in Tokyo
yesterday after releasing a report on the recovery effort that
will be taken to Abe. It indicates that the utility known as
Tepco could be broken up, and that the government should take
over and shoulder the bulk of the costs of the cleanup by
treating it as a public works project.  The report is part of a growing recognition that the
government needs to take charge at the Fukushima station as
weekly reports of contaminated water leaks and accidents jar
with a speech Prime Minister Abe made to the Olympic Committee
in September that the situation is “under control.” Tokyo won
the right to host the  Olympic Games  in 2020.  Tokyo Electric , which returned to profitability in its
first-half earnings report yesterday, is handling an estimated
11 trillion yen ($112 billion) cleanup of the nuclear plant
wrecked by an earthquake and tsunami in 2011. At the same time,
it’s trying to operate as a company generating power for its 29
million customers.  Not Compatible  Tepco shares rose 1.9 percent to 533 yen in Tokyo at 1:36
p.m., while the benchmark Nikkei 225 index fell 0.8 percent.  The two tasks are not compatible as the utility doesn’t
have an incentive to invest in Fukushima, which is a lost cause
compared with businesses that will make money, said CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets analyst Penn Bowers. That’s hindering the
recovery by delaying technical solutions the utility deems it
cannot afford,  Sumio Mabuchi , a government point man on the
crisis in 2011, said.  “We’ve seen over time that Tokyo Electric has put most of
its effort and investments into ensuring business continuity,”
Mabuchi, a lawmaker with the now opposition Democratic Party of
Japan, said. “It’s been very reluctant to spend the kind of
money that’s needed to resolve this accident. If we allow the
situation to continue, it’ll never be resolved.”  Radical Response  Other advisers are urging a more radical response. The
ruling party’s energy committee, led by Taku Yamamoto, is
calling for the creation of a new company to run Japan’s 50
active reactors, the committee chairman said last month. The
clean-up may be assigned to a state-led decommissioning agency,
Abe’s acting policy chief Yasuhisa Shiozaki said last month.  “Ultimately the company must presume that the plant will
be in some way nationalized or separated out, meaning Tepco
could be reluctant to fund what will ultimately be another’s
burden,” CLSA’s Bowers said in an interview.  Neither can the company fully operate as a normal listed
entity because of its Fukushima liabilities, Bowers said.  John Studzinski, head of Blackstone Group LP’s advisory
unit, said at a briefing in  Tokyo  last month that Tepco could
win back investors. “There’s obviously an opportunity there to
invest in something once you figure out how to fix it or how to
create a new business model that is more efficient,” Studzinski
said.  Bill Passed  Japan’s lower house of parliament today passed a bill to
reform the electricity industry, in a meeting broadcast on the
institution’s website. The reform seeks to bolster competition
and set up a new body around 2015 to coordinate national power
supply and demand.  Tepco’s concerns about its bottom line derailed an earlier
plan to build an underground wall around the Fukushima nuclear
site, which would stop groundwater from flooding in and causing
a massive backlog of radioactive water, Mabuchi said in a
briefing in Tokyo last month.  With an engineering background and experience in several
ministerial posts, Mabuchi was drafted in as then Prime Minister
 Naoto Kan ’s aide on the Fukushima response on March 26, a little
over two weeks after the accident.  Mabuchi said he proposed the underground wall plan in 2011
and it’s referred to in Tepco’s own presentations during the
same year. The utility “balked” at the 100 billion yen
estimate, saying the spending could push it to bankruptcy, said
Mabuchi.  Ice Wall  Tepco disputes this. “It was technological, not cost
issues,” spokesman Tatsuhiro Yamagishi said. “It wasn’t the
optimum solution for such a large area.”  Two and a half years later, it is the government that has
stepped in to build an underground ice wall around the site with
taxpayer funds.  Tepco yesterday reported an operating profit in the first
half after cutting costs and boosting revenues through higher
electricity rates.  The operating profit was 167.2 billion yen for the six
months ended Sept. 30, compared with an operating loss of 104.6
billion yen a year ago, according to a statement from the
company. Net income was 616.22 billion yen after a government
injection into the utility’s fund for payouts to people and
companies affected by the Fukushima disaster.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net ;
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  