-- Tesoro Cleared to Restart North Dakota Line After Spill
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2013-10-31T23:18:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/tesoro-cleared-to-restart-north-dakota-line-after-spill.html
Tesoro Corp. (TSO)  accepted a federal
 order  requiring upgrades on its oil pipeline system spanning
 North Dakota  and  Montana  that clears the company to restart a
section shut since a 20,000-barrel spill discovered Sept. 29.  The U.S. Department of Transportation’s Pipeline and
Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, known as Phmsa,
issued a safety order today allowing Tesoro to restart a 35-mile
(56-kilometer) section of the 200-mile High Plains pipeline
system. The order requires weekly aerial patrols of the line for
a year and new leak detectors along all regulated sections of
the High Plains system.  The spill in North Dakota last month and debate over
 TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s Keystone XL proposal have renewed criticism
over the government’s regulation of pipelines as a boom in
domestic oil production drives increasing investments in new and
expanded networks to deliver the oil to market.  “Safety is our highest priority,”  U.S. Transportation
Secretary Anthony Foxx said in a  statement  today. “Today’s
safety order is an important step to protect the people and
environment in this area and to strengthen the integrity of the
pipeline so that something like this doesn’t happen again.”  Tesoro accepted the safety order today, Tina Barbee, a
spokeswoman at Tesoro’s headquarters in  San Antonio , said by e-mail. She declined to say when the section of the pipeline that
leaked will return to service.  The segment, used for both oil-gathering and transmission,
runs from Tioga to Black Slough, North Dakota, according to
Barbee. The line carries oil to a rail site at Battleview, North
Dakota, Maxine Herr, a spokeswoman for the state Mineral
Resources Department in Bismarck, said by telephone Oct. 10.  Phmsa’s safety order shows the line was carrying oil from a
field in North Dakota’s Bakken formation at the time of the
leak. A preliminary analysis indicates that “a strong
electrical discharge” such as lightning caused the pipe
failure, according to the agency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  