-- Estonia Convicts Security Officer of Spying for Russia
-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 2013-10-31T09:51:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/estonia-convicts-security-officer-of-spying-for-russia.html
An Estonian court convicted a former
security official of treason and jailed him for 15 years for
passing secrets to  Russia  in the Baltic state’s third such case
since 2009.  Vladimir Veitman, who was an officer for the KGB under
communist rule, began cooperating with Russia’s Foreign
Intelligence Service in 2002 when working as a “technical
operations specialist” in  Estonia ’s security police, the
country’s prosecutor’s office said in an e-mailed statement late
yesterday.  “The Harju County Court found Vladimir Veitman guilty of
treason, passing on official information and revealing state
secrets,” the prosecutors’ office said.  Estonia’s government accused Russia of interfering in local
politics earlier this month after a candidate for mayor of the
capital, Tallinn, was placed on Interpol’s wanted list on the
eve of municipal elections. Still, relations between the two
countries have improved since 2007, when the worst riots since
the former Soviet republic’s 1991 independence broke out over
the relocation of a Soviet statue in Tallinn. Russian President
 Vladimir Putin  approved a draft border treaty with Estonia this
month.  Veitman, 63, began working for the KGB in 1980 and then
switched to Estonia’s security services, which hired former KGB
workers after independence on the condition they would not take
part in planning or leading operations. He retired in 2011.  He agreed to a “compromise trial procedure” by not
contesting the charges, the prosecutor’s office said. He was
ordered in a closed-door trial to pay 65,000 euros ($89,100) in
damages to security police after authorities confiscated 120,000
euros in “criminal revenue” during the investigation.  Estonia jailed a former high-ranking defense official for
12 1/2 years for treason in 2009 after he passed secrets to
Russian intelligence, the country’s first spying case since
1991. It convicted an ex-senior police official of similar
crimes last June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  