-- MetLife to Halt Earnings Guidance in Focus on Long-Term
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2013-10-31T20:16:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/metlife-to-halt-earnings-guidance-in-focus-on-long-term.html
MetLife Inc. (MET) , the largest U.S. life
insurer, said it will stop providing annual earnings-per-share
 forecasts  as it seeks to shift investors’ focus from short-term
performance.  “I do not believe that we should continue with a practice
solely because it is the way it has always been done,” MetLife
Chief Executive Officer  Steven Kandarian , 61, said today during
a conference call to discuss the New York-based company’s third-quarter results. “After careful study and deliberation, we have
determined the EPS guidance no longer makes sense.”  MetLife joins  Ace Ltd. (ACE)  this year halting the practice. Half
of the life insurer’s North American competitors and most global
rivals forgo issuing earnings forecasts as well, Kandarian said.
His company also has many businesses that are sensitive to
fluctuations in  interest rates  and the prices of securities,
which makes predicting future results difficult.  “Guidance has historically had limited value,” Kandarian
said. “While we are rebalancing our  business mix , we will still
have meaningful exposure to the  capital markets  for the
foreseeable future.”  MetLife will continue to provide investors with its view of
how much certain businesses typically earn and how sensitive
some of its units are to changes in the markets and other
events, Kandarian said.  The insurer holds annual investor meetings in December, and
previously used the event to forecast results for the next year.  ‘New Approach’  “Our new approach for the December call will be consistent
with our internal emphasis on long-term strategic and financial
goals,” he said. “It should shift the discussion to our
business model, which is the real driver of  shareholder value 
over time.”  MetLife yesterday posted third-quarter operating earnings
per share of $1.34, missing by 2 cents the average estimate of
20 analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  The insurer slipped 3.5 percent to $47.31 at 4:03 p.m. in
New York. MetLife has rallied 44 percent this year, beating the
23 percent increase in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Kandarian said he will weigh challenging a designation by
regulators of the company as a systemically important financial
institution after smaller rival  Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU) 
abandoned its fight over the label.  Oversight Council  MetLife has said it’s in the last stage of review to be
designated a non-bank SIFI by the Financial Stability Oversight
Council. The council was authorized by the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act
and charged with preventing another financial crisis by
identifying too-big-to-fail firms whose collapse could threaten
the economy. The  Federal Reserve  can impose tighter capital,
leverage and liquidity rules on SIFIs and demand measures
including stress-testing and wind-down plans.  Prudential, the second-largest U.S. life insurer, was
labeled a SIFI by the council then lost an appeal of the
decision to the FSOC. The  Newark , New Jersey-based insurer opted
this month against filing a lawsuit to contest the ruling.  “In light of Prudential Financial’s decision not to
challenge its SIFI designation in federal district court, I
suspect you may be wondering what MetLife intends to do,”
Kandarian said. “Although it is too early for us to make that
decision, we are not ruling out any of the remedies available
under Dodd-Frank to contest a SIFI designation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  