-- EU’s Swaps Rule Plan May Breach G-20 Accords, Barnier Warns
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-10-31T09:33:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/eu-s-swaps-rule-overhaul-may-breach-g-20-accords-barnier-warns.html
The European Union’s financial
services chief told legislators that a planned overhaul of the
bloc’s rules for trading swaps may breach international
agreements, threatening EU access to overseas markets.  Michel Barnier , the financial services commissioner, is
urging changes to the blueprint which, as it stands, could
“lead to an increase of trading of derivatives instruments on
dark venues,” undermining transparency agreements reached in
2009 by the Group of 20 nations, according to a letter sent to
legislators obtained by  Bloomberg News .  European Parliament lawmakers and national officials have
introduced too many exemptions into the EU plans, which were
presented by Barnier in 2011, according to the letter. As well
as allowing many forms of derivatives trading to continue “in
total opacity,” the revised legislation would also be a missed
opportunity to improve transparency in bond markets, Barnier
wrote in the letter dated Oct. 30.  The Group of 20 nations is seeking to toughen and align
rules for $633 trillion market for swaps and other over-the-counter derivatives. The industry became a target for oversight
after the 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and the
rescue of  American International Group Inc. (AIG) , two of the largest
traders of credit-default swaps.  G-20 leaders agreed in 2009 to seek to push trading as much
as possible through clearinghouses and onto regulated platforms.  ‘Liquid’ Derivatives  The EU has pledged that “standardized and sufficiently
liquid derivatives should be traded on transparent venues,”
Barnier wrote. Were the EU’s transparency regime “not to meet
the G-20 commitments, there is a risk that some G-20 members may
assess the EU regime as being less stringent than their own
rules and refuse access to EU entities.”  EU nations clashed last year over how far the EU should go
in eliminating exemptions from the bloc’s current financial
markets rulebook that allow some types of transactions to escape
standard pre-trade disclosure requirements.  Some governments, including Germany and  France , sought a
tough scaling back of the waivers, in a bid to curb potential
market abuse and promote transparent, regulated platforms.
Others, including the U.K., warned that far-reaching changes
could be disruptive and have unintended side-effects. They
reached a compromise on how they would negotiate with European
Parliament lawmakers on the new rules, seeking to retain more
waivers than proposed by Barnier.  Price Formation  The letter was sent to  Markus Ferber , the parliament’s lead
lawmaker on the draft legislation, and was sent in copy to six
other members of the assembly’s economic and monetary affairs
committee, according to the document.  Lawmakers are negotiating on the law with  Lithuania , which
holds the rotating presidency of the EU.  “Like derivative markets, bond markets are dominated by
dark trading which hinders effective price formation, and this
opacity protects from competition a handful of brokers,”
Barnier wrote. Exemptions from transparency that are being
weighed by legislators and officials would be “harmful,” he
wrote.  Barnier also urged lawmakers to “reconsider” their
position on transparency in the corporate and sovereign bonds
markets “in order to create the conditions allowing the
emergence of a market structure that is promoting sound
competition and enhancing liquidity.”  Draft Laws  Draft laws proposed by Barnier must be approved by the
European Parliament and national governments before they can
take effect. Legislators and nations are able to amend his plans
during negotiations on the final form of these draft laws.  “One of the main aims” of Barnier’s proposals, “was to
increase pre- and post-trade transparency across the board, for
equity and non-equity markets,”  Chantal Hughes , his spokeswoman
at the European Commission, said in an e-mail.  “We are concerned about some elements of the text in
discussion” as “it seems we we are largely back to status
quo,” she said. “We remain confident that we will find
appropriate solutions together with the colegislators.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  