-- Teva Quarterly Profit Tops Estimates on Copaxone Price
-- B y   D a v i d   W a i n e r
-- 2013-10-31T12:49:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/teva-quarterly-profit-tops-estimates-on-copaxone-price.html
Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) ,
the drugmaker whose chief executive officer left yesterday in a
dispute with the board, reported third-quarter profit that beat
estimates after raising prices on its top-selling product.  Earnings excluding some costs declined 4 percent to $1.07
billion, or $1.27 a share, from $1.1 billion, or $1.28, a year
earlier, the Petach Tikva, Israel-based company said in a
statement today. Profit beat the average estimate of $1.25 a
share from 19 analysts  surveyed  by Bloomberg.  Revenue for the multiple sclerosis treatment Copaxone
climbed 1 percent to $1.05 billion after the company increased
prices in the U.S., Teva said. The injected drug faces
competition from Biogen Idec Inc.’s oral medicine Tecfidera, and
may have generic rivals as early as next year.  Preserving sales of Copaxone now will fall to whoever
replaces CEO Jeremy Levin, who left the company because he and
the board disagreed on how to restructure the world’s biggest
generic-drug maker. Teva may struggle to find a replacement of
the same caliber because candidates may be concerned about
interference from the board, analysts said.  Teva’s American depositary receipts fell 8.1 percent to
close at $37.70 in  New York  yesterday after Levin’s departure,
the biggest drop in more than two years. The ADRs have slumped
42 percent from their  peak in 2010  on concern that Copaxone
competition would mount, and pressure on the generic-drug
business. Trading in Tel Aviv was suspended today.  Higher Sales  Sales rose 2 percent to $5.1 billion, beating the average
estimate of $4.98 billion.  Biogen boosted its 2013 forecast on Oct. 28 after sales of
Tecfidera, which received U.S. approval in March, topped
analysts’ third-quarter estimates. Tecfidera now represents more
than 10 percent of the MS market, said  Leerink Swann ’s Marko
Kozul.  With the prospect of a decline in Copaxone sales, Teva is
seeking to cut 10 percent of its workforce, or about 5,000 jobs,
to trim costs. The labor plan met with uproar in  Israel  and
disagreement between Levin and Chairman  Phillip Frost  on how to
execute the cuts, according to Israel’s Channel 2.  Analysts expect sales of Copaxone, which make up about 20
percent of Teva’s revenue and about 50 percent of profit, will
fall over the next five years as the relative ease of oral pills
lures patients from the older Teva injected product.  Copaxone also faces potential generic competition as early
as next year because of a U.S. court decision in July.  Interim CEO  Chief Financial Officer Eyal Desheh was named interim CEO
while the company searches for Levin’s successor. Desheh is a
candidate to get the job permanently, said Amir Elstein, a board
member. Erez Vigodman, CEO of chemical company Makhteshim-Agan
Industries Ltd. and a Teva board member, probably will get the
job, said Ori Hershkovitz, a partner at Sphera Funds Management
Ltd. in  Tel Aviv .  Teva, in the conference call yesterday announcing Levin’s
departure, narrowed its forecast for earnings and sales this
year. The company sees profit excluding some costs of $4.95 to
$5.05 a share, and sales of $19.7 billion to $20.3 billion.
Previously, Teva had forecast $4.85 to $5.15 a share, and
revenue of $19.5 billion and $20.5 billion.  Teva will hold a call with analysts at 9 a.m. New York
time.  For Related News and Information:
Teva Under Fire Seen Struggling in CEO Search: Israel Markets  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wainer in Tel Aviv at 
 dwainer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  