-- Teva Expands Its Bribery Investigation to Eastern Europe
-- B y   D a v i d   W a i n e r
-- 2013-10-31T18:39:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/teva-expands-its-bribery-investigation-to-eastern-europe.html
Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) ,
the world’s biggest maker of generic medicines, said it
discovered suspect business practices in eastern Europe and
 Russia  during an internal investigation that began last year.  Issues in these countries were found that may have
implications under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and have
been disclosed to U.S. authorities, the Petach Tikva, Israel-based company said today in a filing with the Securities and
Exchange Commission. The practices may also violate local laws,
Teva said.  Teva’s probe, which is being conducted by independent
counsel, started last year after the company received requests
from the U.S. Justice Department for documents in connection
with a bribery investigation in Latin America. The discovery
adds to Teva’s woes after Chief Executive Officer Jeremy Levin
abruptly left the drugmaker amid a cost-cutting effort that
calls for a reduction in 5,000 jobs.  “Teva has provided and will continue to provide documents
and other information to the SEC and the DOJ, and is cooperating
with the government in their investigations of these matters,”
the company said in the filing. “No conclusion can be drawn at
this time as to any likely outcomes.”  Operations in the affected countries may be negatively
effected, and Teva may be required to pay fines, “be subject to
injunctions on future conduct and/or the imposition of a
compliance monitor, or suffer other criminal or civil penalties
or adverse impacts, including lawsuits by private litigants,”
the company said.  Drugmaker Investigations  U.S. law enforcement authorities have been probing
drugmakers including Pfizer Inc.,  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) ,  Bristol-Myers
Squibb Co. (BMY)  and GlaxoSmithKline Plc in connection with possible
violations of the overseas anti-bribery law that bars employees
or their agents from paying bribes to foreign government
officials to obtain or retain business.  Glaxo, based in  London , is also facing an anti-corruption
probe in  China , where sales of its drugs and vaccines fell 61
percent in the third quarter.  The 1977 Foreign Corrupt Practices Act makes it illegal to
pay foreign officials to win business. The law was passed after
an SEC investigation in the 1970s found that 400 U.S. companies
had paid $300 million in bribes abroad, according to the Justice
Department.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wainer in Tel Aviv at 
 dwainer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  