-- Teva Falls as Earnings Fail to Assuage Investor Concern
-- B y   D a v i d   W a i n e r
-- 2013-10-31T14:59:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/teva-falls-as-earnings-fail-to-assuage-investor-concern.html
Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) 
fell for a fourth day as better-than-estimated earnings failed
to assuage concern that the abrupt departure of Chief Executive
Officer Jeremy Levin will disrupt the drugmaker’s turnaround.  Teva’s American depositary receipts fell 1.3 percent to
$37.20 at 10:55 a.m. in  New York , bringing the stock’s decline
for the week to 11 percent. Third-quarter profit of $1.27 a
share beat the average estimate of $1.25 from 19 analysts
 surveyed  by Bloomberg.  Earnings got a boost from higher prices in the U.S. of
Teva’s biggest-selling product, the multiple-sclerosis injection
Copaxone. Still, the medicine already faces competition from an
oral branded drug from Biogen Idec Inc., and low-priced generic
copies of Copaxone may reach the market as soon as next year.  “At this point all eyes are on management changes and what
that means for the future of the company,” Sabina Podval, an
analyst at Leader & Co. in  Tel Aviv , said in a phone interview.
“The fact that they are so dependent on Copaxone to hit the
mark on earnings as the rest of the business struggles makes it
scary. What happens the day after the drug goes generic?”  Earnings excluding some costs declined 4 percent to $1.07
billion from $1.1 billion a year earlier, the Petach Tikva,
Israel-based company said in a statement today. Sales rose 2
percent to $5.1 billion, beating the average estimate of $4.98
billion. Copaxone revenue climbed 1 percent to $1.05 billion.  Biogen’s Forecast  Preserving sales of Copaxone now will fall to whoever
replaces CEO Jeremy Levin, who left the company because he and
the board disagreed on how to restructure the world’s biggest
generic-drug maker. Teva may struggle to find a replacement of
the same caliber because candidates may be concerned about
interference from the board, analysts said.  Biogen boosted its 2013 forecast on Oct. 28 after sales of
MS pill Tecfidera, which received U.S. approval in March, topped
analysts’ third-quarter estimates. Tecfidera now represents more
than 10 percent of the MS market, said  Leerink Swann ’s Marko
Kozul.  With the prospect of a decline in Copaxone sales, Teva is
seeking to cut 10 percent of its workforce, or about 5,000 jobs,
to trim costs. The labor plan met with uproar in Israel and
disagreement between Levin and Chairman  Phillip Frost  on how to
execute the cuts, according to Israel’s Channel 2 television.  Teva’s ADRs began falling Oct. 28 after the report. They
slumped 8.1 percent yesterday, the biggest drop in more than two
years, after Teva announced Levin’s departure. The ADRs have
slumped 42 percent from their  peak in 2010  on concern that
Copaxone competition would mount, and pressure on the generic-drug business.  Interim CEO  Analysts expect sales of Copaxone, which make up about 20
percent of Teva’s revenue and about 50 percent of profit, will
fall over the next five years as the relative ease of oral pills
lures patients from the older Teva injected product.  Copaxone also faces potential generic competition as early
as next year because of a U.S. court decision in July.  Chief Financial Officer Eyal Desheh was named interim CEO
while the company searches for Levin’s successor. Desheh is a
candidate to get the job permanently, said Amir Elstein, a board
member. Erez Vigodman, CEO of chemical company Makhteshim-Agan
Industries Ltd. and a Teva board member, probably will get the
job, said Ori Hershkovitz, a partner at Sphera Funds Management
Ltd. in Tel Aviv.  European Slump  Teva, in the conference call yesterday announcing Levin’s
departure, narrowed its forecast for earnings and sales this
year. The company sees profit excluding some costs of $4.95 to
$5.05 a share, and sales of $19.7 billion to $20.3 billion.
Previously, Teva had forecast $4.85 to $5.15 a share, and
revenue of $19.5 billion and $20.5 billion.  Revenue from generic drugs in  North America  rose 6 percent
at constant exchange rates to $1.14 billion. In  Europe , generic
sales fell 5 percent to $812 million.  Teva had said it expects generic opportunities to grow in
the second half as it benefits from branded drugs losing patent
protection. The company in September began selling a generic
copy of Zemplar, AbbVie Inc.’s capsules to treat secondary
hyperparathyroidism, which is caused by low calcium levels. The
company also exclusively marketed Adenoscan from Astellas
Pharma, a treatment used in combination with a heart procedure.  Faced with looming competition to Copaxone and pressure on
the generic business, Levin planned to boost profitability by
reducing expenses and developing new branded drugs through small
acquisitions and partnerships in areas such as respiratory
illnesses and neurology.  For Related News and Information:
Teva Under Fire Seen Struggling in CEO Search:  Israel  Markets  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wainer in Tel Aviv at 
 dwainer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  