-- Ex-Lawyer Daugerdas Convicted in Tax Fraud Scheme Retrial
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-11-01T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/ex-lawyer-daugerdas-convicted-in-tax-fraud-scheme-retrial.html
Former lawyer Paul Daugerdas was
convicted in a retrial for what U.S. prosecutors called the
biggest criminal  tax fraud  in history, while former BDO Seidman
Chief Executive Officer Denis Field was acquitted.  The mixed verdict was delivered by a jury yesterday in
 Manhattan  federal court after deliberations that began Oct. 29.
The men were charged with running a 10-year scheme that created
$7 billion in fraudulent  tax deductions  and more than $1 billion
in phony losses. Prosecutors claimed the scheme cost the  U.S.
Treasury  $92 million.  The men were on trial for a second time, on charges of
conspiracy, tax evasion and attempting to obstruct the  Internal
Revenue Service . Their 2011 convictions were overturned because
a juror in the first trial lied about her background to get on
the case.  Daugerdas, who worked at Jenkens & Gilchrist law firm, was
found guilty of seven counts, including  tax evasion  and
conspiracy. He was charged with 16 criminal counts, Field with
seven. The trial began with jury selection Sept. 9.  Field “is extremely grateful to the jury for seeing the
truth,” his lawyer, Sharon McCarthy, said in an e-mail. “We
are beyond relief that Denis Field can now move on with his life
and put these terrible years behind him.”  Seven People  Daugerdas and Field were among seven people were indicted
in June 2009 for selling phony tax shelters from 1994 to 2004.
Two of the people charged, former BDO Seidman partner Robert
Greisman and former Jenkens & Gilchrist attorney Erwin Mayer,
pleaded guilty and agreed to cooperate with the government.  Prosecutors claimed the defendants used shelters named
“Short Sales,” “Short Options Strategy,” “Swaps” and
“Homer” to generate fraudulent tax losses for at least 931
wealthy individuals.  A jury returned guilty verdicts on May 24, 2011, against
Daugerdas and Field; Donna Guerin, another former Jenkens &
Gilchrist partner; and David Parse, who worked for Deutsche Bank
AG unit Alex. Brown. Craig Brubaker, a second former Alex. Brown
accountant, was found not guilty.  U.S. District Judge William Pauley presided over both
trials.  ‘Difficult Moment’  “Mr. Daugerdas, I’m certain this is a difficult moment for
you and we will all endeavor to move forward,” Pauley said
yesterday after the verdict was read. Sentencing was scheduled
for March 21.  Pauley dismissed the 2011 convictions of Guerin, Daugerdas
and Field after finding that Catherine Conrad, Juror No. 1, had
lied repeatedly about her background, including that she was a
suspended attorney and an alcoholic, in an effort to make
herself “more marketable” as a juror.  Pauley let Parse’s conviction stand after ruling that his
lawyers failed to disclose information they had about Conrad. He
sentenced Parse to 3 1/2 years in prison. Guerin pleaded guilty
and was sentenced to eight years in prison.  Jenkens & Gilchrist avoided prosecution in March 2007 by
admitting it developed and marketed tax shelters that generated
more than $1 billion in phony losses. Jenkens shut after
reaching the non-prosecution agreement, which didn’t apply to
individual lawyers at the former Dallas-based firm.  The case is U.S. v. Daugerdas, 09-cr-00581, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christie Smythe in Brooklyn at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in federal court in Manhattan at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  