-- Texas Wins Emergency Delay, Can Enforce Abortion Limits
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s ,   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s   a n d   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 2013-11-01T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/texas-wins-emergency-delay-can-enforce-abortion-limits.html
Texas  won a U.S. appeals court order
temporarily blocking a federal judge’s decision to strike down a
state law requiring abortion doctors to have local hospital
admission privileges.  The decision by a three-judge panel of the U.S. Court of
Appeals in  New Orleans  will allow Texas officials to enforce the
provision while they seek reversal of the Oct. 28 ruling by U.S.
District Judge Lee Yeakel in Austin.  “This unanimous decision is a vindication of the careful
deliberation by the Texas Legislature to craft a law to protect
the health and safety of Texas women,” state Attorney General
 Greg Abbott  said yesterday in a statement.  The provision challenged by  Planned Parenthood  and other
abortion providers compels doctors who perform the procedure to
have admitting privileges at a hospital within 30 miles (48
kilometers) of their clinics.  It was signed into law with a package of other abortion-restricting measures by Governor  Rick Perry , a Republican, on
July 18. Opposition to the law by Democratic State Senator Wendy R. Davis of Fort Worth provided a catalyst for her own bid to
succeed Perry as governor, announced last month. Abbott, a
Republican, is also a candidate for governor.  Clinic Closures  The plaintiffs argued the provision would force clinics to
close and deny women in a wide swath of the second-biggest U.S.
state access to the procedure, a right recognized as
constitutionally protected by the U.S.  Supreme Court   Yeakel’s decision, rendered after a three-day trial,
prevented the law from taking effect as scheduled on Oct. 29.  The affiliation requirement “does not bear a rational
relationship to the legitimate right of the state in preserving
and promoting fetal life or a woman’s health,” he said.  The state had immediately appealed his ruling.  Similar provisions have been provisionally blocked by
federal courts in  Wisconsin ,  Alabama  and  Mississippi  and by a
state court order in  North Dakota .  The Texas law is the first to be provisionally reinstated
by an appeals court.  “This fight is far from over,”  Cecile Richards , president
of Planned Parenthood Federation of America, said in an e-mailed
statement.  “This restriction clearly violates Texas women’s
constitutional rights by drastically reducing access to safe and
legal abortion statewide,” she said.  Three Judges  The three judges on the appeals panel that issued
yesterday’s ruling were each appointed by former President
 George W. Bush , a Republican.  U.S. Circuit Judge Priscilla R. Owen, whose appointment was
challenged by opposing Democrats for four years, wrote the
decision.  “There was evidence offered by Planned Parenthood that
more than 90 percent of the women seeking an abortion in Texas
would be able to obtain an abortion from a physician within 100
miles of their respective residences even if” the new law took
effect, Owen said.  “This does not constitute an undue burden in a large
fraction of the relevant cases,” Owen said. Joining in her
opinion were U.S. Circuit judges Jennifer Walker Elrod and
Catharina Haynes.  The judges also blocked part of Yeakel’s decision
concerning the dispensation of pregnancy-terminating drugs,
calling it “overly broad.”  January Hearing  The panel expedited the state’s appeal and directed the
court’s clerk to schedule oral arguments in January.  “Because of this ruling, at least 13 or more clinics in
Texas will close and irreparable damage will be done to women’s
health in Texas,” Heather Busby, executive director of  NARAL
Pro-Choice Texas , said in a phone interview. “It’s a tragedy.
No recourse is apparent to me.”  Clinics will be closing in Austin,  Fort Worth , McAllen,
Lubbock and  San Antonio , among other cities, she said.  Joe Pojman, executive director of  Texas Alliance for Life ,
which opposes abortion, praised the ruling because he said it
will lead to safer clinics. About two-thirds of Texas’s 42
clinics that provide abortions will remain open, he said, citing
testimony by women’s health advocates at the court hearing in
Austin.  Perry said the decision affirms the state’s right to
protect both the unborn and the health of the women.  ‘Culture of Life’  “We will continue doing everything we can to protect a
culture of life in our state,” he said in a statement.  Republicans expect Democrats in 2014 to use the ruling as
an example of a “war on women,” said Matt Mackowiak, a
Republican political consultant in Austin. He said he doubts
that argument will sway voters.  Davis knows abortion is unpopular in Texas, Mackowiak said.  “It’s very unusual because folks on the left want to use
this issue, but their nominee doesn’t,” Mackowiak said. “She
became a star because of this issue, yet now she is choosing to
de-emphasize it.”  The appellate case is Planned Parenthood v. Abbott,
13-51008,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Fifth Circuit (New
Orleans). The lower-court case is Planned Parenthood of Greater
Texas Surgical Health Services v. Abbott, 13-cv-00862, U.S.
District Court, Western District of Texas (Austin).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in federal court in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com ;
David Mildenberg in Austin at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  