-- Extended Stay IPO Seeks to Raise as Much as $593 Million
-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 2013-10-31T10:51:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/extended-stay-ipo-seeks-to-raise-as-much-as-593-million.html
Extended Stay America Inc., the mid-price lodging chain owned by  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , Centerbridge
Partners LP and Paulson & Co., plans to raise as much as $593
million in its U.S. initial public offering.  The company, which owns and operates almost 700 hotels with
about 76,000 rooms in the U.S. and  Canada , is offering 28.25
million shares for $18 to $21 each, with proceeds going to repay
debt, according to a regulatory filing today.  Extended Stay’s owners, which hold equal parts of the
chain, are taking it public three years after buying the company
out of bankruptcy and investing about $626 million in a
renovation program that’s close to completion. The investors are
taking advantage of stock prices that are close to record highs
and growth in hotel-room rates and occupancy to extend the
busiest year for real estate IPOs since 2004, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Led by former Starbucks Corp. Chief Executive Officer Jim Donald, Extended Stay reported net income of $22.3 million on
revenue of $1 billion last year, according to today’s filing.
Adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization came to $434.3 million. Guests at the company’s
hotels are typically business travelers, people on temporary-work assignments or in the process of moving, who rent rooms for
a week or more.  Extended Stay, based in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina , is
selling paired common stock, comprising one share of the company
and one Class B share of a related entity that is taxed as a
real estate investment trust, the filing shows. Each paired
share will trade as one unit. The company will be listed on the
 New York  Stock Exchange under the ticker STAY.  Extra Shares  The $593 million excludes 4.24 million shares that
underwriters could sell to meet demand. If the shares are sold
at the high end of the range, the offering could raise as much
as $682 million, according to the filing with the Securities and
Exchange Commission.  Extended Stay is selling about 14.1 percent of the company
in the IPO, giving it a market value of about $3.9 billion at
the midpoint of the  price range , according to the filing.  The hotelier’s three owners borrowed $3.6 billion in
December to refinance Extended Stay’s debt, enabling them to
recoup about half their equity investment, a person with
knowledge of the transaction said at the time.  Cash Generator  Since the three bought Extended Stay near the bottom of the
commercial real estate market, its cash flows have increased
more than 40 percent amid a recovery in the lodging industry,
two people with knowledge of the situation said last year. In
addition to room renovations, the owners consolidated properties
under the Extended Stay brand name and added amenities such as
free Wi-Fi and breakfast to charge higher room rates.  In April 2012, Extended Stay hired Thomas Seddon as chief
marketing officer, the same job he held at  InterContinental
Hotels Group Plc (IHG) , which owns Candlewood Suites, one of Extended
Stay’s main competitors.  Blackstone, based in New York, also owns Hilton Worldwide
Holdings Inc., which is expected to go public as soon as
December, a person with knowledge of the plans has said. Hilton,
the world’s largest hotel operator, has filed to raise as much
as $1.25 billion, a placeholder amount.  Extended Stay was founded 18 years ago by billionaire H.
 Wayne Huizenga  and his longtime business associate George
Johnson. The two formed the company in January 1995 and took it
public that December with two properties, raising about $60
million. Johnson was chief executive officer of Extended Stay
and Huizenga was chairman.  The company had expanded to 472 hotels by the time
Blackstone  bought  it in May 2004 for $3.1 billion, after the
2001 terrorist attacks and recession had depressed travel and
hotel-property values.  Blackstone Sale  When the commercial  property market  peaked in 2007,
Blackstone sold Extended Stay to Lightstone Group LLC for $8
billion. After the credit crisis hit, Lightstone couldn’t
refinance Extended Stay’s debt and the company filed for
 bankruptcy protection  in 2009.  The following year, Blackstone joined New York-based
Centerbridge, a lender who had worked to restructure Extended
Stay debt, and Paulson, the hedge fund firm led by billionaire
 John Paulson , to  buy back  the hotel chain at a bankruptcy
auction for about $3.9 billion.  Centerbridge also is a shareholder of Brixmor Property
Group Inc., the shopping-center REIT that Blackstone took public
earlier this week.  Deutsche Bank AG, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and JPMorgan
Chase & Co. will underwrite the Extended Stay IPO.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  