-- Exxon Boosts Production Amid Slumping Refining Margins
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 2013-10-31T20:47:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/exxon-third-quarter-profit-declines-as-refining-slumps.html
Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , the biggest  oil
company  by market value, lifted production for the first time in
more than two years as net income slumped 18 percent on
dwindling refining returns.  Exxon’s oil and natural gas  output  rose 1.5 percent to the
equivalent of 4.02 million barrels a day, the first increase
since the second quarter of 2011, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Crude prices also climbed, raising costs and
contributing to an 81 percent plunge in profit at the company’s
refineries.  “They were hurt on the cost side,” said Ernie Cecilia,
who helps manage $7 billion, including Exxon shares, as chief
investment officer at  Bryn Mawr  Trust Co. in Bryn Mawr,
 Pennsylvania .  Net income fell to $7.87 billion, or $1.79 a share, from
$9.57 billion, or $2.09, a year earlier, Irving, Texas-based
Exxon said in a statement today. The per-share result was 2
cents higher than the average of 21 analysts’ estimates compiled
by Bloomberg.  Exxon was the biggest gainer in the  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  of 30 blue-chip stocks today. The shares rose 0.9
percent to $89.62 at the close in New York. Sales declined by
2.4 percent to $112.4 billion.  Refining Crude  Profit from processing crude into fuels fell to $592
million during the quarter from $3.19 billion a year earlier,
according to the statement. Returns from oil and gas sales rose
12 percent to $6.7 billion and chemical profit climbed 30
percent to $1.03 billion.  U.S. profit margins from refining oil into products such as
gasoline and diesel declined 43 percent to an average of $17.54
a barrel during the July-to-September period as the cost of U.S.
crude feed stocks rose. It was the first time the average
quarterly spread fell below $20 since late 2010, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The company has been processing output from its Kearl oil-sands development in western Canada at plants in Joliet,
Illinois;  Baton Rouge , Louisiana; and Sarnia, Ontario,  David Rosenthal , vice president of  investor relations , said during a
conference call with analysts today. Some of the Kearl
production also has been sold to other refiners, he said.  Exxon Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Rex Tillerson  is
seeking to revive production growth and curb cost increases amid
stagnant energy demand in the world’s largest economy and
shrinking access to the world’s remaining untapped crude
reservoirs. The company’s growth prospects include gas-export
developments in Australia and Papua New Guinea, oil-sands
production in western Canada and Arctic forays in Russia.  Less Downtime  Output in the quarter rose on the contributions from new
projects and less downtime at existing projects.  Exxon stock has languished among the poorest performers of
the world’s largest oil producers, advancing 2.6 percent this
year to yesterday, less than one-third the gain of its largest
rival  Chevron Corp. (CVX)   Brent crude futures, the benchmark for two-thirds of the
world’s oil, were little changed during the quarter from a year
earlier, trading at an average price of $109.65 a barrel. The
premier U.S. crude, West Texas Intermediate, rose 15 percent to
average $105.81-a-barrel average in the quarter.  U.S. natural gas climbed by 23 percent to $3.555 per
million British thermal units from $2.893 a year earlier,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Gas accounted for about
49 percent of the company’s worldwide reserves at the end of
2012.  Boost Production  Tillerson, 61, has been telling investors and analysts
since March that output from Exxon’s wells will decline by 1
percent this year before new projects boost production as much
as 3 percent annually through 2017.  Exxon is the second-to-last major non-state oil producer to
report third-quarter results. Earlier today,  Royal Dutch Shell
Plc (RDSA)  said net income declined 35 percent and  Total SA (FP)  reported a
10 percent decline.  On Oct. 29,  BP Plc (BP/)  said profit adjusted for one-time items
and inventory changes declined 26 percent to $3.7 billion. That
exceeded the average estimate from analysts who forecast $3.4
billion in profit. Chevron, based in San Ramon, California, is
scheduled to release results tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Carroll  in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  