-- Facebook to Limit Ads as Younger Teens Using Site Less
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2013-10-31T20:13:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/facebook-to-limit-ads-as-younger-teens-using-site-less.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  will limit news feed
advertisements that have driven revenue gains and said younger
teens aren’t using its website as much as they used to.  Even so, shares of the world’s most popular social-networking service rose today after some analysts released
reports citing improved profitability in the third quarter and
Facebook’s potential to raise ad prices, as well as sales that
topped analysts’ estimates as marketers spent more on ads
targeting smartphone and tablet users.  Chief Executive Officer  Mark Zuckerberg  has been building
features that make it easier for advertisers to reach consumers.
He’s seeking to strike a balance by making sure members aren’t
annoyed by marketing pitches while they check posts, pictures
and other updates from their friends, even as  Facebook  aims to
generate more ad revenue with higher prices and boost its user
base of more than 1 billion.  “It’s a fine line,” said  Brian Wieser , an analyst at
Pivotal Research Group in New York who has a hold rating for the
shares. “They want to manage the user experience. They don’t
want to overwhelm consumers’ use of Facebook with advertising.”  Facebook said revenue in the latest quarter surged 60
percent to $2.02 billion, exceeding the average analysts’
 projection  for $1.91 billion, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Sales from mobile promotions made up 49 percent of
total ad sales in the third quarter, surpassing 41 percent in
the prior  period  and analysts’ prediction for 45.6 percent.  Teen Users  The shares fell as much as 5.1 percent earlier today after
Chief Financial Officer  David Ebersman  said on a conference call
yesterday that news feed promotions won’t rise significantly.
While usage among U.S. teenagers was relatively stable during
the quarter, there was a decrease among younger teens who log on
daily, he said.  The shares of Facebook, based in Menlo Park,  California ,
rose 2.4 percent to $50.21 at the close in New York, leaving
them up 89 percent this year.  “They’re targeting ads better,” said  Ben Schachter , an
analyst at Macquarie Securities USA who has the equivalent of a
buy rating. “To see a company continue to accelerate revenue
growth at this stage in the game is quite impressive.”  Profit, excluding stock-based compensation, currency
effects on revenue and other items, was 25 cents a share, the
company said in a statement yesterday, compared with analysts’
average prediction for 19 cents.  Mobile Strategy  Heather Bellini , an analyst at Goldman Sachs, said in a
note to investors that executives’ comments on the conference
call were “not that dissimilar from those made by Mark
Zuckerberg on the second-quarter call.”  “Put simply, management expects pricing to continue to
move higher,” Bellini wrote.  Net income was $425 million, or 17 cents a share, in the
third quarter, as the social-networking service continued to
invest in equipment, staff and services. That compared with a
loss of $59 million, or 2 cents, a year earlier.  During the call with analysts, Ebersman said the percentage
of ads on Facebook’s news feed, including on mobile and desktop,
was “modestly higher” in the third quarter from the previous
period. The percentage of promotions is just one of the three
main tools for expanding ad revenue, and is the least important,
he said.  “One is just growth in users,” Ebersman said. “Second is
growth in demand, which plays out into pricing.”  ‘Paying Off’  Facebook had 1.19 billion users during the quarter, up from
about 1.15 billion in the second quarter. The number of mobile
users rose 6.7 percent from the prior period to 874 million.  “The investments we’re making in mobile in particular are
really paying off,” Ebersman said in an interview. “Mobile is
already important, and we think it’s going to increase in
importance because it’s where people are spending so much
time.”  Facebook, which didn’t roll out mobile ads until early
2012, has been upgrading its offerings. Earlier this month, the
company said it was expanding a service to let companies target
users based on their online activity outside of the social
network. Facebook’s Instagram is set to start selling
promotions.  “The good news for Facebook is that over 70 percent of its
usage is mobile, yet only 49 percent of revenue comes from
mobile, suggesting further upside,” said Paul Sweeney, an
analyst at Bloomberg Industries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  