-- Fagor’s Polish Unit Seeks Creditor Protection in Spanish Court
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2013-10-31T15:20:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/fagor-s-polish-unit-seeks-creditor-protection-in-spanish-court.html
Fagor Electrodomesticos Soc. Coop.,
an employee-owned appliance maker based in  Spain ’s Basque
Country, said its Polish unit sought creditor protection while
the parent continues to negotiate with lenders.  Fagor Mastercook SA filed for protection at a court in San
Sebastian, northern Spain, according to a statement to
regulators today. The parent company remains in talks with
lenders, after seeking preliminary creditor protection Oct. 16.  The number of Spanish companies in bankruptcy proceedings
rose 15 percent from a year earlier in the second quarter,
government  data  show, as banks continued to rein in lending and
the economy struggled to emerge from a two-year recession.  Zinkia Entertainment SA (ZNK) , the producer of children’s TV show
Pocoyo, sought preliminary protection from creditors today after
pulling a  bond issue , and  Service Point Solutions SA (SPS)  took the
same measure last week.  Fagor has 850 million euros ($1.16 billion) of debt as of
June 30, Elena Goirizelaia, a spokeswoman for the company, said
in a telephone interview. That figure includes 185 million euros
of subordinated debt. Debtholders include workers of Fagor, who
at the same time are partners of the company, she said.  Fagor is owned by Mondragon Corp., a closely-held
cooperative conglomerate. Its products include washing machines
and pressure cookers, with most revenue coming from foreign
markets. International sales account for 76 percent of revenue,
compared with 24 percent from Spain.  The potential closure of Fagor would mean about 10,000 job
losses, including 5,600 Fagor staff and more than 4,000 staff at
suppliers, Cinco Dias reported today, without saying how it got
the information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  