-- Fannie Mae Sues Banks for $800 Million Over Libor Rigging
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-11-01T10:48:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/fannie-mae-sues-banks-for-800-million-over-libor-rigging.html
Fannie Mae (FNMA)  sued nine banks, alleging
that their manipulation of the benchmark London interbank
offered rate, which four of them have admitted, cost the
mortgage-financing company about $800 million.  The U.S. government-owned firm alleged that the banks,
including  Bank of America Corp. ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and
 Citigroup Inc. (C) , acted to suppress the rate though quotes they
submitted to the British Bankers Association, according to the
complaint filed yesterday in Manhattan federal court.  Global authorities have been investigating claims that more
than a dozen banks altered submissions used to set benchmarks
such as Libor to profit from bets on interest-rate derivatives
or to make the lenders’ finances appear healthier.  The alleged suppression of the rate caused Washington-based
Fannie Mae to lose as much as $332 million on interest-rate
swaps with  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  UBS AG (UBSN) ,  Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc,
Deutsche Bank AG, Credit Suisse Group AG, Bank of America,
Citigroup and JPMorgan, according to the complaint.  “Defendants initially took these and other overt acts
described above to further the corrupt agreement between them
and to carry out a common plan to execute a fraud on Fannie Mae
and to benefit defendants,” the company claimed.  Contract Claims  The lawsuit includes claims of breach of contract and
breach of implied duty of good faith and fair dealing against
all of defendants except Rabobank International NA. All nine
were sued for common law fraud as well as aiding and abetting.
Fannie Mae seeks damages including consequential damages,
punitive damages, prejudgment interest and attorneys’ fees.  Rene Loman, a spokesman for Utrecht, Netherlands-based
Rabobank, said the claims against the bank were without merit
and it would defend itself vigorously.  Deutsche Bank spokeswoman  Renee Calabro , UBS spokeswoman
Karina Byrne, JPMorgan spokesman  Brian Marchiony , Citigroup
spokesman Mark Costiglio, Barclays spokeswoman  Kerrie Cohen ,
Credit Suisse spokesman Jack Grone and RBS spokesman Ed Canaday
and declined to comment on the lawsuit.  Bill Halldin , a Bank of America spokesman, didn’t
immediately return a call yesterday seeking comment on it.  In March, mortgage financier Freddie Mac, also owned by the
U.S., sued more than a dozen banks over similar allegations.  Manipulation of interest rates by some of the world’s
biggest banks has spawned probes by half a dozen agencies on
three continents in what has become the industry’s largest and
longest-running scandal. More than $300 trillion of loans,
mortgages, financial products and contracts are linked to Libor.  Libor Poll  Libor is calculated by a poll carried out daily by Thomson
Reuters Corp. on behalf of the British Bankers’ Association, an
industry lobby group that asks firms to estimate how much it
would cost to borrow from each other for different periods and
in different currencies.  Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac (FMCC)  could have lost a combined $3
billion because of Libor manipulation, the auditor of the
Federal Housing Finance Agency said in an internal memo last
year urging the regulator to investigate further.  Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae use Libor to determine interest
payments on their investments in floating-rate financial
instruments such as bonds and swaps. The two companies, which
package mortgages into securities on which they guarantee
payments of principal and interest, have been under U.S.
conservatorship since 2008.  The case is Federal National Mortgage Association v.
Barclays Bank Plc, 0:13-cv-07720, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in federal court in  Manhattan  at  pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Christie Smythe in federal court in Brooklyn, New York at  csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  