-- Fed Sees Less Risk From Higher Rates While Maintaining QE
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2013-10-31T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/fed-sees-less-risk-from-higher-rates-while-maintaining-qe.html
Federal Reserve policy makers
signaled diminishing concern over higher borrowing costs as they
maintained the pace of bond purchases and seek more evidence of
sustained growth.  Stocks and Treasuries fell after the central bank refrained
from providing stronger signals of  prolonged stimulus  and
limited its comment on the costs of budgetary wrangling in
 Washington  to the observation that “fiscal policy is
restraining” growth.  “If you read the statement you would never know there was
a government shutdown and heightened uncertainty around that,”
said  Stephen Stanley , chief economist at Pierpont Securities LLC
in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , and a former Richmond Fed researcher.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  in a statement yesterday
repeated it will keep buying $85 billion of bonds each month
until “the outlook for the labor market has improved
substantially.”  The panel, meeting after a government closing this month
delayed release of data needed to gauge the health of the
economy, said it will “await more evidence that progress will
be sustained before adjusting” bond purchases.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index declined 0.5 percent to
1,763.31 in New York, while the yield on the 10-year Treasury
note climbed 0.03 percentage point to 2.54 percent.  Ben S. Bernanke  is pushing unprecedented accommodation into
the final months of his Fed chairmanship to safeguard an
expansion buffeted by budget cuts, tax increases and the 16-day
federal shutdown that reduced growth by 0.3 percentage point
this quarter, according to the median estimate in an Oct. 17-18
Bloomberg survey of economists.  Impair Growth  At the same time, the FOMC dropped its warning from last
month’s meeting that “tightening” financial conditions could
impair the four-year expansion.  “The statement is indicating that yields are more or less
in the right area given the current economic conditions,” said
Thomas Costerg, an economist with Standard Chartered Plc in New
York. “They were clearly unhappy when yields were too low in
the spring and then clearly too high in September.”  Borrowing costs have declined in recent weeks. The yield on
the 10-year Treasury note has fallen from 3.01 percent on Sept.
5. The average 30-year mortgage rate decreased to 4.13 percent
last week from as high as 4.58 percent in August.  The central bank also left unchanged its statement that it
will probably hold its target interest rate near zero “at least
as long as” unemployment exceeds 6.5 percent, so long as the
outlook for inflation is no higher than 2.5 percent.  The Fed’s bond purchases will remain divided between $40
billion a month of mortgage bonds and $45 billion in  Treasury
securities , the FOMC said.  Inflation Expectations  Policy makers repeated that inflation “has been running
below the committee’s longer-run objective but longer term
inflation expectations have remained stable.”  Price gains have lagged below the committee’s 2 percent
target. The Fed’s preferred gauge of inflation, the personal
consumption expenditures index, rose 1.2 percent in August and
hasn’t breached 2 percent since March 2012.  “They want to see those inflation numbers come up a little
bit before they think about changing the path of policy,” Ira Jersey, a New York-based U.S. interest-rate strategist at Credit
Suisse Group AG, a primary dealer that trades  government
securities  directly with the Fed, said yesterday in a Bloomberg
Television interview.  The FOMC yesterday dropped its reference from last month to
strengthening in housing and rising mortgage rates, saying
instead that “the recovery in the housing sector slowed
somewhat in recent months.”  Home Purchases  Fewer Americans signed contracts to purchase existing homes
in September, the National Association of Realtors reported this
week. The group’s index fell  5.6 percent , the most in more than
three years and the fourth straight decline.  Kansas City Fed President Esther George dissented yesterday
for the seventh meeting in a row, citing the risk the Fed’s
stimulus could create financial imbalances and cause long-term
inflation expectations to rise.  The Fed unexpectedly refrained from tapering at its meeting
last month, saying it wants more evidence the economy is
strengthening. The FOMC won’t reduce the pace of purchases until
its March 18-19 meeting, according to the median estimate of the
Oct. 17-18 Bloomberg survey of economists.  “If you were looking for dovish signals, you didn’t get
it” from the FOMC decision yesterday, said Michael Gapen, a
senior U.S. economist at Barclays Plc in  New York  and former
member of the Fed board’s Division of Monetary Affairs.
“They’re keeping all of their options open.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Kearns in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  