-- Finland Probes Hacking of Foreign Ministry Network
-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o   a n d   K a s p e r   V i i t a
-- 2013-11-01T08:22:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/finland-probes-hacking-of-foreign-ministry-network.html
Finland ’s Security Police is
investigating the infiltration of the Foreign Ministry’s data
network by spies, Foreign Minister Erkki Tuomioja said.  “The data breach was an extensive attempt to spy on an
entire network,” Tuomioja told reporters in Helsinki yesterday
after broadcaster  MTV3 reported  the ministry’s network was the
target of intelligence gathering for as long as four years. “It
seems to have been going on for an extended period of time.”  While the targeted network contains confidential
information, the most sensitive data wasn’t transmitted through
it, he said.  Espionage has taken center stage in international politics
after an electronic surveillance program by the U.S. National
Security Agency came to light in June, when Edward Snowden, a
technical assistant working at the organization, leaked top-secret documents. German authorities are investigating
allegations that U.S. intelligence bugged Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s mobile phone in 2010.  Breaching Trust  “Every time trust is breached it’s detrimental,” Tuomioja
said. “Diplomatic relations are based on trust.”  Foreign spying on technology companies is an escalating
threat to Finland’s economy, the nation’s counter-intelligence
agency, the Finnish Security Intelligence Service, said on March
1. The government in Helsinki approved a national cybersecurity
 strategy  on Jan. 24 to support the military and companies
operating critical infrastructure counter threats. It targets
the implementation of measures outlined in the strategy by 2016,
including setting up a Cybersecurity Center at the start of next
year to monitor threats.  “We have a cybersecurity strategy of how to improve
things,” Prime Minister  Jyrki Katainen  said in an interview
with MTV3 yesterday. “It takes some time. We try to be ahead,
and to get ahead, but in this case we weren’t.”  Russian and Chinese intelligence operators are suspected of
the cyber espionage, Helsinki-based MTV3 said, citing sources it
didn’t identify.  Data Race  The government “can’t at this stage confirm or deny the
suspects,” Tuomioja said. The hacking was discovered early this
year based on a tip from outside the country, and the government
has discussed it on several occasions, he said.  The government didn’t publish the hacking when it was
discovered to help investigation, Katainen said.  “We didn’t want those who spied on us to know that we
know,” he said.  While there is evidence other countries’ networks have also
been breached, the hacking of the Finnish network didn’t
endanger any other nations’ data, Tuomioja said, without giving
details.  “This shows that the race between protecting data and data
breaches is ongoing,” Tuomioja said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net ;
Kasper Viita in Helsinki at 
 kviita1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  