-- First Quantum Mulls $500 Million Zambia Copper-Smelter Expansion
-- B y   M a t t h e w   H i l l
-- 2013-10-31T17:54:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/first-quantum-mulls-500-million-zambia-copper-smelter-expansion.html
First Quantum Minerals Ltd. (FM) , a
copper and nickel miner, will decide this year whether to spend
$500 million to boost its Zambian smelter’s capacity two-thirds
after the government reinstated an export tax on raw minerals.  “We’d like to have it done and dusted for a decision this
year,” Matt Pascall, First Quantum’s operations director, said
today by phone from  Cape Town . “We’ll have something to take to
the next board meeting at the end of December.”  The Vancouver-based miner is spending $650 million to build
the smelter in Solwezi, in the northwest, to process minerals
stored up after a capacity shortage in Zambia,  Africa ’s biggest
copper producer. Finance Minister Alexander Chikwanda lifted a
10 percent tax on concentrate and ore exports on Oct. 4, only
for President  Michael Sata  to reinstate it three weeks later.  A larger smelter may increase First Quantum’s processing
capacity in Zambia to 2 million metric tons a year. The cost
estimate for the expansion is based on building a neighboring
smelter, First Quantum President  Clive Newall  told analysts
today on a call. The miner is studying the best option, he said.  The company is considering the project due to the expense
of transporting low-value concentrates out of the land-locked
country, rather than because of pressure from the government,
Pascall said. Concentrates contain about 30 percent copper while
smelters produce a product that’s higher than 95 percent.  First Quantum’s first smelter will have capacity to produce
more than 300,000 tons a year and is set for completion in 2014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Hill in Lusaka at 
 mhill58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  