-- Fonterra Cooperative Said to Seek 10% Stake in Australia’s Bega
-- B y   B r e t t   F o l e y
-- 2013-10-31T08:42:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/fonterra-hires-goldman-to-acquire-bega-cheese-stake-review-says.html
Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd., the
world’s largest dairy exporter, is seeking as much as a 10
percent stake in  Australia ’s  Bega Cheese Ltd. (BGA) , according to a
person with knowledge of the matter.  Goldman Sachs (GS)  Group Inc. is approaching Bega shareholders
on behalf of Fonterra and offering A$4.95 per share, said the
person, asking not to be identified as the information is
private. Bega, based in New South Wales state, closed today in
Sydney at A$4.41, giving it a market value of A$670 million
($636 million). Its shares have gained 10 percent this week.  Bega, one of three bidders for Warrnambool Cheese & Butter
Factory Co., won Australian regulatory approval today to proceed
with its A$408 million offer for the dairy producer. Its cash
and stock offer is below the A$8 per bid offer made last week by
Montreal-based  Saputo Inc. (SAP) , which has support from Warrnambool’s
board, and is also lower than a A$7.50 per share cash proposal
from Murray Goulburn Cooperative Co.  Fonterra, which operates 10 manufacturing sites in
Australia with 1.7 billion liters of annual milk production,
this week hired Reunion  Capital Partners ’ Mike Everett to advise
on “corporate activity in the dairy sector,” spokesman Carl
Stephens said Oct. 29. Everett is a former Goldman Sachs head of
 equity capital markets  in Australia.  Spokesmen for Fonterra, Goldman Sachs and Bega declined to
comment or weren’t immediately available. The Australian
Financial Review reported on Fonterra’s stake purchase earlier
today.  Kirin Holdings Co. (2503) , Japan’s largest beverage maker, bought
a 9.99 percent stake in Warrnambool on Oct. 29. Kirin’s
Australian unit Lion has a contract with Warrnambool to
manufacture cheese for its Coon and Cracker Barrel brands.  Bega Cheese holds 18 percent of Warrnambool and Murray
Goulburn owns 17 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brett Foley in Melbourne at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  