-- Ford Targets Sustained North America Profit as Trucks Change
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2013-10-31T20:25:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/ford-targets-sustained-north-america-profit-amid-f-series-change.html
Ford Motor Co. (F)  wants to maintain
record earnings in North America next year as analysts project
that a transition to new F-Series pickups might trim production,
the automaker’s president for the region said.  Large-pickup output at Dearborn, Michigan-based Ford may
drop 8.5 percent in 2014, Barclays Plc said in an Oct. 25
report, citing an estimate from researcher IHS Automotive. The
F-Series line has been the top seller in the U.S. for more than
three decades and accounts for the bulk of the company’s North
American earnings.  “Sustaining our profitability, our market share growth,
keeping our lineup the freshest in the industry, those are all
important goals,” Joe Hinrichs, Ford’s president of the
Americas, said yesterday in an interview. “We want to continue
to sustain the performance we’ve been having in North America.”  Ford, the second-largest U.S. automaker, vies with bigger
rival  General Motors Co. (GM)  and Chrysler Group LLC to keep pickups
fresh because the trucks earn higher margins than other
vehicles. Large pickups generate $8,000 to $10,000 each in gross
profit, Morgan Stanley estimates. The F-Series sales lead over
GM and Chrysler pickups has expanded in 2013 even as those
competitors introduced redesigned models in the past year.  Ford hasn’t confirmed that new F-Series pickups are coming
next year and will have more to say about its plans for 2014
“over the next couple months,” Hinrichs said.  The company’s assembly plant near Kansas City, Missouri,
will prepare for building new trucks in March and April and
shift to producing them in November next year, said Brian Johnson, a Chicago-based analyst at Barclays. Its Dearborn truck
factory will shut down completely in June, he said, citing IHS
Automotive’s analysis.  Earnings Estimate  The automaker’s pretax profit in North America may decline
to $8.6 billion next year, with a margin of 9.8 percent, from $9
billion and 10.1 percent this year, Johnson said. He  rates  Ford
shares the equivalent of hold and estimates that they may rise
to $20 in the next year.  Ford fell 1.3 percent to $17.11 at the close in New York.
The  shares  have gained 32 percent this year, as the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index advanced 23 percent.  “North America may need to take a step back in 2014 as the
company transitions its large pickup truck product,” Johnson
said in the report. “We suspect that the impact of Ford’s large
pickup transition is underestimated.”  Ford earned $7.08 billion in North America through the
year’s first nine months, up from $6.47 billion a year earlier.
The automaker has forecast that annual profit in the region will
be higher than last year’s record $8.34 billion, with a margin
of about 10 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Dearborn, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  