-- Ford Sees 30% Jump in Lincoln October U.S. Sales as Ads Debuted
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2013-10-31T16:27:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/ford-sees-30-jump-in-lincoln-october-u-s-sales-as-ads-debuted.html
Ford Motor Co. (F) , a laggard in the
U.S. luxury-auto market, said its Lincoln brand sales rose about
30 percent this month as it introduced new advertising for the
revamped MKZ sedan ahead of rivals’ holiday promotions.  MKZ led the brand’s gains, surging about 70 percent from a
year earlier, when Ford was selling down inventory of the
previous model, Kevin Cour, Lincoln’s sales and service
operations manager, said today in a telephone interview. The
Dearborn, Michigan-based company introduced the Luxury Uncovered
campaign for MKZ on Oct. 9.  “We are very happy that we got engaged in October versus
waiting for Wish List,” Lincoln’s annual holiday sales event,
Cour said. “The campaign is now seeded in the market, and as
people begin their purchase consideration, Lincoln can be a
bigger part of the conversation.”  Lincoln has been a vexing challenge for Chief Executive
Officer  Alan Mulally , with Ford’s namesake brand accounting for
almost all of the automaker’s sales. The MKZ debuted early this
year as the first of four new Lincoln models to be introduced in
four years to try to resurrect the line, which trails General
Motors Co.’s Cadillac and luxury leaders such as  Bayerische
Motoren Werke AG (BMW) ’s BMW and  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz.  Mercedes’s U.S. luxury sales lead over BMW this year
expanded in September to 2,491 vehicles, 215,056 to 212,565.
Lincoln deliveries fell 6.3 percent to 59,852 for the period.  BMW has sold the most  luxury vehicles  in the U.S. the past
two years. Toyota Motor Corp.’s Lexus led the previous 11 years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  