-- Fortress Third-Quarter Profit Rises 1.6% on Investments
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2013-10-31T21:14:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/fortress-third-quarter-profit-rises-1-6-on-investments.html
Fortress Investment Group LLC (FIG) , the
first publicly traded alternative-asset manager in the U.S.,
reported third-quarter profit that missed analysts’ estimates as
hedge-fund returns slumped.  Pretax distributable earnings, which exclude some
compensation costs and other items, increased 1.6 percent to $65
million, or 13 cents a share, from $64 million, or 12 cents, a
year earlier, New York-based Fortress said today in a statement.
Analysts expected per-share profit of 15 cents, according to the
average of seven  estimates  in a Bloomberg survey. The shares
fell 4 percent in New York trading.  Fortress’s hedge-fund unit recorded a loss in the third
quarter as returns slumped in strategies seeking to profit from
macroeconomic events and those focused on investments in  Asia .
Fortress’s macro strategy, the biggest hedge fund run by the
firm, lost 3 percent in the quarter, and its Asia macro fund
declined 1.1 percent.  “We gave back some returns in the third quarter, which is
never acceptable to a team focused on delivering strong and
consistent absolute returns,” Michael Novogratz, co-chief
investment officer of the macro funds, said in the statement.
Novogratz said his funds have had a “good start” in October.  Fortress closed at $8.25 after its biggest percentage drop
since Aug. 15. The stock, which has gained 88 percent this year,
is  down  55 percent since the company’s February 2007 initial
public offering, when it sold shares at $18.50 apiece to become
the first U.S.-listed buyout and hedge-fund manager.  Blackstone
Group LP (BX) , which followed four months later, still trades below
its offering price.  Hedge Funds  Fortress’s liquid hedge-fund unit posted a pretax loss in
distributable earnings of $11 million in the quarter, compared
with a gain of $8 million a year earlier. Pretax distributable
earnings in the private-equity unit rose to $30 million, up from
$28 million a year earlier.  Macro hedge funds on average declined 6.6 percent in the
third quarter, according to the Bloomberg Active Indices for
Funds.  Fortress’s private-equity business benefited from a 10
percent appreciation in its portfolio in the quarter, compared
with 5.9 percent at KKR & Co. and 4.2 percent at Blackstone.
Fortress’s  Nationstar Mortgage Holdings Inc. (NSM)  gained 50 percent
in the third quarter, and Springleaf Holdings Inc. went public
on Oct. 15, valuing its $125 million original investment at $1.7
billion at yesterday’s closing price.  “Our financial services investments continue to be
standouts,” Wes Edens, Fortress’s co-chairman, said in the
statement. “We see further upside for these and other
investments in our main funds.”  GAAP Earnings  Fortress’s distributable earnings differ from U.S.
generally accepted accounting principles. Under those rules,
known as GAAP, the company’s net income attributable to Class A
shareholders was $42 million, or 12 cents a share, compared with
$1 million a year earlier.  Blackstone, the world’s biggest alternative-asset manager,
earlier this month reported net income of $171 million for the
third quarter, compared with $129 million a year earlier. KKR
reported a third-quarter profit of $205 million, compared with
$127 million a year earlier as appreciation in its portfolio
holdings boosted unrealized gains and it collected more fees for
completing deals. Both firms are based in  New York .  Fortress’s Businesses  Private-equity firms pool money from investors including
pension plans and endowments with a mandate to buy companies
within about five to six years, then sell them and return the
funds with a profit after about 10 years. The firms, which use
debt to finance the deals and amplify returns, typically charge
an annual management fee equal to 1.5 percent to 2 percent of
committed funds and keep 20 percent of profit from investments.  Fortress’s  businesses  include private equity, credit,
liquid hedge funds and a traditional-asset management unit
called Logan Circle Partners, the largest by assets under
management. The firm’s total assets rose to $58 billion from
$54.6 billion at the end of the second quarter.  Hedge funds  are mostly private pools of capital whose
managers participate substantially in the profits from their
speculation on whether the price of assets will rise or fall.  Fortress said it will pay shareholders a  dividend  of 6
cents a share on Nov. 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  