-- Founder of Top India Commodity Exchange Resigns Amid Probe
-- B y   S w a n s y   A f o n s o   a n d   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2013-11-01T06:10:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/founder-of-india-s-biggest-commodity-exchange-resigns-amid-probe.html
Jignesh Shah resigned from the board
of  Multi Commodity Exchange of India Ltd. , the nation’s biggest
commodity trading platform, amid an investigation into the
failure of a related spot bourse.  Shah, 46, quit as non-executive vice chairman, according to
a filing yesterday from the company he founded in 2003. He said
he’s leaving to help ensure investors aren’t harmed by “mud-slinging” over the probe.  India ’s commodities futures market regulator has sought an
audit of MCX, which counts  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  and Fidelity
International Ltd. as investors, to examine large expenditures
by the company and related-party transactions. The spot bourse
being investigated, National Spot Exchange Ltd., which Shah also
founded, was ordered by the government in July to halt trading.  “Investors will view Shah’s resignation as a positive,”
said Paras Bothra, vice president for equity research at Ashika
Stock Broking Ltd. in Kolkata. A change in ownership of MCX is a
“distinct possibility,” he said.  Shares (MCX)  of MCX, which controls about 90 percent of India’s
$2.8 trillion commodities futures market, advanced 3.1 percent
to 488.2 rupees at 10:36 a.m. in Mumbai. The stock has dropped
23 percent since July 31, when NSEL suspended trading in most
commodities.  Financial Technologies (India) Ltd. (FTECH) , which owns 26
percent of MCX, has plunged 68 percent in the period.  Fairness, Integrity  Forward Markets Commission, India’s commodities futures
market regulator, on Oct. 5 questioned Financial Technologies’
ability to manage MCX. According to the FMC, a person shall be
deemed “fit and proper” to run a bourse if the person has a
general reputation and record of fairness, integrity and is not
involved in any action of fraud and dishonesty.  Shah said a detailed reply has been sent to the regulator
over concerns it raised about MCX.  Financial Technologies  also
runs the Singapore Mercantile Exchange, Global Board of Trade in
Mauritius, Bourse Africa in  Botswana , Dubai Gold and Commodity
Exchange and Bahrain Financial Exchange.  Shah quit the board of the MCX-Stock Exchange Ltd., India’s
newest equity bourse, in October.  The now defunct NSEL broke rules by permitting the sale of
goods traders didn’t keep in its warehouses, according to
regulators. The turmoil for MCX began with the government
seeking details on NSEL’s settlement cycle on July 14, and
deepened with the suspension of most contracts on the NSEL on
July 31. The exchange was banned from introducing new
obligations without prior approval on Aug. 6.  CEO Resigns  MCX’s Chief Executive Officer Shreekant Javalgekar, its
chairman, and three directors quit recently. Investors had been
calling for Shah’s resignation.  The number of contracts traded on the MCX fell 38 percent
in October from July, with volume last month totaling 12.09
million contracts, the least since February 2009, MCX data show.
Volumes on the rival National Commodity & Derivatives Exchange
Ltd. have increased 5 percent since July.  Shah’s departure may be an attempt to build some confidence
in MCX, according to Kishore Narne, head of commodity and
currency at Motilal Oswal Commodity Broker Ltd.  MCX appointed Pravir Vohra and G. Ananth Raman as
independent directors to the board on Oct. 23, and named Parveen
Kumar Singhal, a deputy managing director, as the chief
executive until a managing director is named.  The Economic Offences Wing of the Mumbai police has
arrested NSEL’s former Chief Executive Officer Anjani Sinha and
two other senior officials after an investors’ group complained
the executives diverted funds and failed to settle about 56
billion rupees ($911 million) in dues to investors.  The NSEL has failed to meet most of the payment targets set
under the supervision of the  Forward Markets Commission , the
commodities futures market regulator.  NSEL and Financial Technologies Group will co-operate with
the authorities in the probe, the exchange said in a statement
on Sept. 30.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Swansy Afonso in Mumbai at 
 safonso2@bloomberg.net ;
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  