-- Fund Research Costs, Infosys, SAC Ex-Wife: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-10-31T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/fund-research-costs-infosys-sac-ex-wife-compliance.html
Asset managers may no longer be able
to pass on the multibillion-dollar costs to clients of the
research they buy from investment banks, the chief executive
officer of the U.K. markets regulator said.  The Financial Conduct Authority is considering forcing
global fund managers to pay for research instead of charging
customers through trading commissions, Chief Executive Officer
Martin Wheatley said in a speech yesterday in London. Investment
banks spent $5 billion last year on equity research used by
asset managers, according to a report by Frost Consulting &
Advisory and Quark Software Inc.  The research is included in trading commissions paid to
investment banks by fund managers, with the cost passed on to
the customer. The regulator wrote to asset managers this year to
say they were failing to control costs and need to regularly
review whether services were eligible to be paid for using
commissions.  The FCA will publish the consultation in November and a
final decision will be made later. The watchdog is in
discussions with European Union officials on implementing rule-changes across the 28-nation bloc on what can be considered
commission charges, Wheatley said.  The move would mean fund managers must either pay for the
research themselves or invest in creating their own reports.  The Investment Management Association, a London-based group
representing the fund industry, will release a review on
research in the next few months.  Compliance Action  Infosys Record Fine Targets Outsourcing, Immigration Abuses  A record fine against  Infosys Ltd. (INFO)  targets outsourcing
companies and their alleged abuse of existing immigration laws
to feed the insatiable desire for highly skilled engineers in
the U.S.  Infosys has been sending employees to the U.S. with B-1
visitor visas, letting it sidestep caps on H1-Bs -- the permits
designed for high-tech workers. To settle the case, the company
agreed to pay a $34 million penalty to Homeland Security
Investigations, the U.S. State Department and the U.S.
Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of Texas, according
to a filing yesterday in federal court in Texas. The fine is the
largest ever for the outsourcing industry, which manages tasks
for customers using a mix of on- and offshore labor.  The move might also inject the use of visitor visas into
the congressional debate over immigration reform.  While technology companies ranging from  International
Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  to  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  to  Facebook Inc. (FB)  rely
on temporary H-1B work visas to hire thousands of employees,
outsourcing companies use a variety of tactics to bring staff
into the U.S. on work permits -- whether for training,
consulting projects or longer-range jobs.  Infosys said it agreed to yesterday’s settlement to
“remove the uncertainty of prolonged litigation.” There were
no criminal charges against the company, and it won’t be limited
in applying for federal contracts or visa programs.  “Infosys denies and disputes any claims of systemic visa
fraud, misuse of visas for competitive advantage, or immigration
abuse,” the company said yesterday in a statement.  India is the biggest source of guest workers hired through
H-1Bs, a nonimmigrant specialist visa that lasts three to six
years.  For more, click here.  U.S. in Leading Role in Global Currency Rigging Probe  The U.S.  Justice Department  is taking a leading role in a
global investigation into possible manipulation of the $5.3
trillion-a-day foreign exchange market, a department official
said.  Mythili Raman, acting head of the criminal division, said
in an interview Oct. 29 that the department’s criminal and
antitrust divisions have an “active investigation” into
possible manipulation of foreign exchange rates. She declined to
name specific institutions under scrutiny or say when the probe
began.  Bloomberg News  reported Oct. 11 that the U.S. had begun a
criminal investigation of currency-market rigging, according to
a person familiar with the matter.  The U.S. is “taking a leading role” in the probe with
respect to international enforcers scrutinizing possible
exchange rate manipulation, Raman said.  European Union antitrust regulators, the U.K. Financial
Conduct Authority, Switzerland’s Financial Market Supervisory
Authority, or  Finma , and the  Swiss Competition Commission  are
also probing the foreign exchange market.  The regulators are reviewing alleged abuse of benchmarks
used in markets from oil to  interest-rate swaps  by the firms
that play a central role in setting them.  In the currency probe, regulators are examining an instant
message group used by senior dealers at firms including  Barclays
Plc (BARC) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  and  UBS AG (UBSN) 
to outline details of their positions and client orders, as well
as make trades before key benchmarks were set, two people with
knowledge of the discussions have said.  The FCA said in June it was reviewing potential
manipulation of exchange rates. Swiss regulators said earlier
this month they were authorities in other countries on probes
including alleged manipulation of ISDAfix, a benchmark in the
$379 trillion market for interest-rate swaps.  Exchange Failure Prompts India Commodity Bourse Audit  India’s commodities futures market regulator has sought an
audit of the  Multi Commodity Exchange of India Ltd.  after a
related spot bourse failed in August.  The  Forward Markets Commission  wants to examine large
expenditures by the MCX and related-party transactions, Ramesh
Abhishek, chairman of the regulator said in an interview. The
MCX has set up a panel to run the bourse after the government in
July ordered the National Spot Exchange Ltd., founded by MCX
Vice Chairman Jignesh Shah, to halt trading.  Volume at MCX, India’s biggest platform for commodities
which counts  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  and Fidelity International Ltd. as
investors, is set to plummet to a five-year low this month as
authorities widen their probe of the NSEL. The regulator has
asked MCX’s largest investor, which is backed by Shah, to prove
that it is qualified to operate the bourse. It also tightened
rules for selecting directors for all futures exchanges.  Dilip Tambe, a spokesman for NSEL, declined to comment.  Courts  Cohen’s Ex-Wife Says Case Against SAC Is Proof She Is Victim  Patricia Cohen, the ex-wife of SAC Capital Advisors LP
founder  Steven Cohen , said the indictment and enforcement action
by the U.S. against the hedge fund are proof she’s a victim of
his fraud and a reason why her suit against him shouldn’t be
dismissed.  Patricia Cohen filed suit against her ex-husband in 2009,
claiming he ran the Stamford, Connecticut-based SAC Capital as a
racketeering enterprise engaged in  insider trading , bank fraud,
 money laundering  and other acts in violation of the Racketeer
Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act.  SAC Capital was indicted in July by Manhattan U.S. Attorney
 Preet Bharara , accused of perpetrating what prosecutors called
an unprecedented insider-trading scheme.  While Cohen wasn’t charged in the indictment, the U.S.
alleged that “the fund owner” had “encouraged” the fund’s
employees to traffic in inside information in an alleged scheme
that went back as far as 1999. At least eight current or former
SAC Capital employees have been charged with insider trading
with six pleading guilty. The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission has also filed a parallel civil action. SAC has
pleaded not guilty to the charges.  The government’s recent actions against SAC have
transformed  Patricia Cohen ’s case, “from a mostly private
affair to one that justifies the extraordinary legislative
response RICO provides,” her lawyers said.  The suit was dismissed in 2011 as untimely and reinstated
by a federal appeals court, which said the case had been filed
in time. Without ruling on the merits of her case, the appeals
court also said she had validly asserted claims that her ex-husband violated the racketeering law, committed fraud and
breached his fiduciary duty.  Martin Klotz, a lawyer for Cohen, said in court papers that
her suit should be dismissed, arguing it was “legally
defective” and said she had engaged in a “campaign of
harassment and extortion against Steven Cohen.”  The case is Cohen v. Cohen, 09-cv-10230, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Twitter Sued for Fraud Over Failed Private Sale of Shares  Twitter Inc. (TWTR)  was sued for $124 million by two financial
firms that claim the  Internet company  engineered a failed
private sale of its shares to pump up investor interest for its
planned initial public offering.  The firms, Precedo Capital Group Inc. and Continental
Advisors SA, sued yesterday in Manhattan federal court, claiming
Twitter fraudulently used the aborted sale to set a $10 billion
valuation for itself and a floor price for the IPO.  “Twitter never intended to complete the private sale of
Twitter stock,” the firms said in their complaint. “Twitter’s
intention was to induce Precedo Capital and Continental Advisors
to create an artificial private market,” in which Twitter could
set a price for the stock.  Gabriel Stricker , a Twitter spokesman, didn’t immediately
respond to a request for comment sent before business hours.  The case is Precedo Capital Group Inc. v. Twitter Inc.,
1:13-cv-07678, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  