-- Gafisa Forecast Cut Most by Homebuilder Bears: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i   a n d   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-11-01T17:54:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/gafisa-forecast-cut-most-by-homebuilder-bears-corporate-brazil.html
Analysts bearish on Brazilian
homebuilders are cutting share-price estimates for  Gafisa SA (GFSA3)  by
the most in the industry as surging  interest rates  and a drop in
 consumer confidence  discourage new-home purchases.  Gafisa’s 38 percent plunge in booked sales was the biggest
drop among seven homebuilders that reported preliminary third-quarter figures. Analysts covering the Sao Paulo-based company
lowered their forecasts for the share price by 8.3 percent in
the past four weeks, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Shares
fell 1.3 percent to 2.99 reais at 3:49 p.m. in Sao Paulo.  Home sales are slumping as policy makers raise borrowing
costs at the fastest pace in the world to tame inflation that
has exceeded the central bank’s target range since 2010. The
BM&FBovespa Real Estate index is  down  17 percent in the past
year, twice the benchmark Ibovespa gauge’s drop, following a 436
percent surge from a 2008 low to its 2010 peak on wagers that
builders would benefit from a government program to boost
homeownership among lower-income Brazilians.  “People aren’t exactly rushing to buy new homes,” Eduardo Silveira, an analyst at  Espirito Santo ’s investment banking
unit, said in a phone interview from  Sao Paulo . “The real
estate market has been a bit tough because of macroeconomic
conditions.”  The preliminary sales figures signal the industry’s
earnings “won’t be good,” Silveira said. The six builders that
are in the Ibovespa are scheduled to begin releasing their full
third-quarter results next week, starting with PDG Realty SA
Empreendimentos & Participacoes on Nov. 5, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Inflation Target  Gafisa’s press office said the company wouldn’t comment
because of regulatory restrictions before the quarterly earnings
report. Chief Executive Officer Alceu Duilio Calciolari said in
a conference call after releasing second-quarter results that
the company is still looking for ways to reduce costs and boost
profitability, which includes focusing on its projects in Rio de
Janeiro and Sao Paulo, where profit margins are higher.  Tecnisa SA (TCSA3) , which isn’t a member of the Ibovespa,  reported 
third-quarter sales of 436.3 million reais on Oct. 30, trailing
the 448 million-real average estimate of three analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg. Adjusted earnings per share were 34 centavos,
compared with a forecast of 32 centavos. The company said in a
press release its profit of 178 million reais this year through
September makes up for the net loss of 170.9 million reais in
2012 and is a sign of Tecnisa’s “full recovery.”  Rate Increases  Inflation twice exceeded the ceiling of the central bank’s
2.5 percent to 6.5 percent target range this year and has
remained above the 4.5 percent midpoint since January 2010. The
annual pace of  consumer price increases  was 5.86 percent in
September. Consumer confidence fell to a three-month low in
October, according to a report from the Getulio Vargas
Foundation.  Policy makers led by central bank President Alexandre Tombini have raised the benchmark lending rate by 2.25
percentage points this year to 9.5 percent, the most among 49
countries tracked by Bloomberg, to curb inflation. While the
increase doesn’t affect  mortgage rates , which are controlled by
the government, higher borrowing costs cool the economy and
erode consumer confidence, Silveira said.  Earnings Outlook  Higher rates also make servicing the homebuilders’ debt
more expensive.  Brookfield Incorporacoes SA (BISA3) , the worst-performing major Brazilian stock this year after  Eike Batista ’s
OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA and MMX Mineracao &
Metalicos SA, with a 59 percent slump, has a 12-month  ratio  of
debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization of 54 times, compared with an average of 8.5 among
the 73 members of the Ibovespa.  Brookfield’s press office said in an e-mailed response to
questions that it wouldn’t comment because of regulatory
restrictions on what the company can say before the earnings
release. The homebuilder is strengthening its screening process
to lower the chances of clients missing payments on homes
purchased on credit, which should help generate cash to pay off
debt, Chief Executive Officer Nicholas Reade said in a
conference call with analysts on Aug. 15.  “We are quite convinced that we are at the beginning of a
cash generation cycle and deleverage,” Reade said.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. forecasts that the six Brazilian
homebuilders it covers, including Gafisa and PDG, will report a
combined drop of 50 percent in third-quarter profits.  Inventory Glut  There’s “no reason to build positions ahead of earnings
season,” analysts Marcelo Motta and Adrian Huerta wrote in a
note to clients dated Oct. 22. “We don’t expect positive
developments this quarter.”  PDG’s press office declined to comment, citing regulatory
restrictions before its quarterly earnings release.  The rally in homebuilders from 2008 to 2010 came amid
surging economic growth that prompted them to expand with new
projects throughout  Brazil  and attracted stock investors to
companies linked to  consumer spending . As gross domestic product
expansion slowed from 7.6 percent in 2010 to 0.9 percent in
2012, the real estate market became oversupplied, according to
Citigroup Inc. analysts Paola Mello and Dan McGoey.  “The excessive growth in launches in the past years has
oversupplied specific markets in the north, northeast and
midwest regions,” which is hurting the companies’ capacity to
generate cash, Mello and McGoey wrote in a note to clients on
Oct. 29.  ‘Takes Time’  While third-quarter results “will not be great,”
homebuilders have been taking measures to improve efficiency by
reducing the number of less-profitable projects and focusing on
those that offer higher returns, which is positive in the long
run, said Eric Conrads, who manages about $750 million of Latin
American stocks at ING Investment Management.  “You still have a restructuring process in the sector, it
takes time,” Conrads said in a phone interview from  New York .
“It’s not in a quarter, two or three quarters that you’ll see a
turnaround.”  As homebuilders focus on more profitable projects to reduce
debt and boost cash, an economy that’s losing momentum may
outweigh those efforts, said Ari Santos, an equity trading
manager at brokerage H. Commcor. Profits at all companies that
depend on domestic demand, not just homebuilders, are being
hurt, he said.  Brazil’s gross domestic product will expand 2.5 percent
this year, according to a central bank survey of about 100
economists published on Oct. 28, which compares with a median
forecast of 3.5 percent in a December 2012 survey. The
 International Monetary Fund  in October cut its 2014 growth
forecast for  Latin America ’s largest economy, citing concern
that accelerating inflation may damp consumption.  A “weak outlook” for the sector’s third-quarter results
has been weighing on the shares, Santos said in a phone
interview from Sao Paulo. “The outlook for the earnings season
as a whole is weak. The economy isn’t doing well.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  