-- Gazprom Starts South Stream Pipeline Construction in Bulgaria
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 2013-10-31T15:12:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/gazprom-starts-south-stream-pipeline-construction-in-bulgaria.html
OAO Gazprom (GAZP)  started building the
Bulgarian section of the South Stream pipeline, which will ship
natural gas across the Black Sea and Bulgaria to Europe.  By the end of the year Gazprom will start building the
Serbian part, Gazprom Chief Executive Officer Alexey Miller told
reporters in Sofia today. The Bulgarian section will be 540
kilometers (335 miles) long and will cost 3.5 billion euros
($4.8 billion), Energy and Economy Minister Dimitar Stoynev said
at the same briefing.  “We are starting the construction of the pipeline in
Bulgaria today,” Miller said. “Bulgarian consumers will have
the first gas deliveries in December 2015. This project will
contribute to Europe’s energy security and help reduce prices as
the fuel will be delivered directly into the European Union.”  The link will help bypass current pipelines to Europe
traveling through Ukraine that have been disrupted in recent
years over arguments between that country and  Russia .  South Stream will run also through  Hungary , Slovenia and
northern Italy with offshoots potentially to  Greece ,  Croatia ,
Montenegro and Macedonia. It will carry 63 billion cubic meters
of gas by 2019, when all four lines are operational, according
to Gazprom. Underwater construction of the pipeline began in
December 2012 from Russia along the Black Sea floor to  Bulgaria ,
and the first line, which will be able to ship 15.8 billion
cubic meters a year, will be finished in two years.  Gazprom Loan  Bulgarian Energy Holding, which groups state utilities,
will borrow about 620 million euros from Gazprom at a 4.25
percent interest for 22 years, Stoynev said. The dividend from
the pipeline’s operation will be used as collateral for the
loan, Stoynev said. Bulgaria will receive an annual dividend of
715 million euros starting in 2018, when the pipeline reaches
full capacity, he said. Gazprom and Bulgaria also agreed to
grant access to the pipe to other suppliers, in line with EU
requirements.  Gazprom pumps 17.8 billion cubic meters of gas a year to
Bulgaria via Ukraine and  Romania . The rest goes on to  Turkey ,
Greece, and Macedonia under a 30-year contract signed in 2006.
Bulgaria spends as much as 1.4 billion euros a year on gas
imports.  The link may compete with the OMV AG-led Nabucco pipeline
that envisions pumping Caspian Sea gas to Europe via Turkey and
Bulgaria.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  