-- Geberit Quarterly Sales Gain on Northern European Recovery
-- B y   P a t r i c k   W i n t e r s
-- 2013-10-31T10:48:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/geberit-third-quarter-earnings-beat-sees-patchy-europe-recovery.html
Geberit AG (GEBN) , a Swiss maker of toilets
and bathroom piping, reported third-quarter earnings that beat
analyst estimates helped by a recovery in northern European
markets. The shares rose the most in two years.  Earnings before interest, taxes, amortization and
depreciation increased 23 percent to 170.1 million francs ($189
million) beating the 153.9 million-franc estimate of analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. Currency-adjusted sales rose 8.1 percent
to 592.6 million francs, also beating analyst estimates, fueled
by recovering growth in the U.K., Nordic countries and Germany.  “While individual markets saw significant recoveries in
the third quarter, at least temporarily, the overall trend of
strongly diverging developments in the various markets continued
in the first three quarters,” Geberit said today in a
statement.  Geberit shares rose as much as 5.3 percent, the most since
September 2011. The stock traded 5 percent higher at 265.50
francs at 11:20 a.m. in Zurich, giving the company a market
value of 10 billion francs.  Geberit had “stunning growth” in  Germany ,  France , the
U.K. and Nordic countries in the third quarter, Oliver Girakhou,
an analyst at Kepler Chevreux wrote in a note to clients.  Nordic Countries  In local currencies, sales in the U.K. and Ireland rose
18.7 percent in the nine-month period, while the Nordic
countries showed a 7.9 percent increase and Germany a 6.8
percent rise. Geberit got about 90 percent of  sales  last year
from  Europe , with approximately 40 percent of revenue from
Germany, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Apart from a few markets such as Germany,  Switzerland ,
 Norway  and  Russia  that are performing positively, a clear fall
in demand has been seen in many markets since the fourth quarter
of 2012,” Geberit said in the statement. “An end to this trend
–- or a recovery -- is not in sight.”  The company confirmed a full year target of currency-adjusted sales growth of about 3 percent and an Ebitda margin of
approximately 25 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Winters in Zurich at 
 pwinters3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  