-- IMF Backs U.S. Treasury in Criticizing German Exports
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n   a n d   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2013-11-01T12:47:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/germany-strikes-back-at-u-s-criticism-over-economic-policy.html
The  International Monetary Fund 
joined the U.S. Treasury Department in rebuking Germany’s trade
surpluses, rebuffing the claim of  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s
government that booming exports are a sign of economic health.  As Germany bristled over a Treasury  report  critical of its
current-account surpluses, the fund’s First Deputy Managing
Director  David Lipton  urged Merkel’s government to reduce its
export surplus to an “appropriate rate” to help its euro-area
partners cut deficits. The Treasury report berated Germany’s
export focus during Europe’s debt crisis, saying its neglect of
domestic demand has delayed ending the misery.  A “significantly smaller current account would be
useful,” Lipton said last night at a speech at Berlin’s
 American Academy . Cutting excessive deficits in the euro area
“simply can’t happen unless surpluses are down as well.”  The spat over the influence of Germany’s economic policy in
 Europe  and beyond coincides with a diplomatic row over U.S.
spying on allies and the possible tapping of Merkel’s mobile
phone. German officials were at the White House this week
probing the allegations, while lawmaker Hans-Christian Stroebele
met former National Security agency contractor Edward Snowden to
talk about testifying in Germany.  Export Dependent  Lipton urged Germany to “lift its sights to the global
horizon” in forming policy. Europe’s largest economy, where
every second job in industry depends on exports, was the world’s
third-largest exporter in 2012,  selling  more than 1.36 trillion
euros ($1.85 trillion) in goods and services abroad in a 2.66
trillion-euro  economy .  Germany today reiterated its rejection of the Treasury
report, saying it doesn’t merit criticism. “There are no
imbalances in Germany which require a correction of our growth-friendly economic and fiscal policy,” Finance Ministry
spokesman Martin Kotthaus told reporters in Berlin. At the same
conference, Economy Ministry spokesman Stefan Rouenhoff said
economic growth next year will be driven by domestic demand.  While the  U.S. Treasury  acknowledged a rebound in the
country’s domestic demand as the 17-member euro bloc emerges
from recession, German growth, it said, “continues to rely on
positive net exports, which continues to delay the euro area’s
external adjustment process.”  The toll is being taken by indebted euro countries such as
Greece and Ireland, which have come under “severe pressure to
curb demand and compress imports in order to promote
adjustment,” according to the U.S. report.  ‘Deflationary Bias’  “The net result has been a deflationary bias for the euro
area, as well as for the world economy,” the Treasury said.  Lipton said the IMF isn’t asking Germany to “change its
business model” but to bring domestic demand within Germany
into better balance by fostering wage growth and investment.  While Merkel has said her government has done enough to
spur consumption, she’s coming under pressure from the  Social
Democrats  to set a legal national minimum wage to curb a growing
wealth gap. Her potential coalition allies seek a blanket hourly
minimum of 8.5 euros. At election rallies ahead of Sept. 22’s
national election, Merkel championed Germany’s export-heavy
policy as a model for others to follow.  Holger Schmieding, chief economist at Berenberg Bank in
 London , dismissed the U.S. criticism as not taking into account
a rebalancing that has already taken place and underestimating
the effect Germany’s competitiveness is having on other euro-area nations.  While Germany’s foreign-trade balance last year was at 188
billion euros ($255.4 billion) the second-largest since 1950,
its current account showed a 6.3 percent surplus measured
against gross domestic product. That’s within the corridor of
the IMF’s “norm” of 6 percent to 6.5 percent. Some 69 percent
of  Germany ’s exports went to European countries while 70 percent
of its imports were from those partners.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  