-- German Green Party Lawmaker Met With Snowden Seeking Testimony
-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 2013-10-31T22:24:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/german-green-party-lawmaker-met-with-snowden-seeking-testimony.html
German Green Party lawmaker Hans-Christian Stroebele met Edward Snowden in Moscow today to
discuss the possibility of the U.S. fugitive testifying in
 Germany  as new revelations of spying by the National Security
Agency strained relations between the two countries.  Snowden handed Stroebele a letter to the German government,
the parliament and the federal attorney general, details of
which the lawmaker will reveal at a press conference in Berlin
tomorrow, Stroebele said on his  website . The NSA leaker
indicated his willingness in principle to help the German probe,
he said.  The visit took place a day after  Chancellor Angela Merkel 
dispatched a team to the White House to seek a new intelligence
pact with the U.S. following leaks that her mobile phone may
have been tapped. Stroebele traveled with two German reporters
for the three-hour meeting, in which he proposed the possibility
of safe passage to Berlin as well as the possibility of Snowden
testifying in Moscow, broadcaster ARD  reported .  “He clearly indicated that he knows very much, and that
he’s prepared to travel to Germany to testify as long as the NSA
and its head, Keith Alexander, block clarification,” Stroebele
said on ARD television. “But the circumstances must be
resolved.”  Merkel’s top foreign-policy adviser, Christoph Heusgen, and
her intelligence coordinator, Guenter Heiss, met with U.S.
officials including Director of National Intelligence James Clapper and National Security Adviser Susan Rice to try to
“rebuild trust,” the chancellery said yesterday.  The sides failed to resolve their differences as the U.S.
defended its intelligence-gathering as similar to practices
applied by other countries.  Steffen Seibert, Merkel’s spokesman, didn’t immediately
respond to a text message seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  