-- German Stocks Rise to Record as Volkswagen, Daimler Rally
-- B y   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i
-- 2013-10-31T17:18:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/german-stocks-drop-for-a-second-day-as-commerzbank-falls.html
German stocks  climbed to a record,
extending a monthly advance, as carmakers rallied, outweighing a
decline in  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  after its revenue missed
analysts’ estimates.  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  and Daimler AG each gained more than 1.5
percent. Lufthansa lost 2.9 percent, the biggest drop on the
benchmark DAX Index, after Europe’s second-largest airline said
the strengthening euro will stop sales at its main passenger arm
from growing this year.  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  slid 2.5 percent
after its U.S. options unit reported problems disseminating
prices late yesterday.  The DAX gained 0.3 percent to 9,033.92 at the close in
 Frankfurt . The gauge earlier dropped as much as 0.4 percent amid
speculation that the Federal Reserve will taper its bond
purchases sooner than forecast. The equity benchmark has
advanced 5.1 percent this month and  11 percent  since the
beginning of September, completing its biggest back-to-back
monthly gains since the first two months of 2012. The broader
HDAX Index also increased 0.3 percent today.  “The markets have been very focused on the macroeconomic
events such as the Fed,” Yves Marcais, an equity sales trader
at Global Equities in Paris, said in a phone interview. “It’s
more the remarks about the vision that the Fed has over the
health of the American economy that have disappointed a bit.”  In the U.S. yesterday, the Federal Open Market Committee
decided against reducing its $85 billion of monthly bond
purchases. The policy-setting panel said the U.S. economy shows
signs of underlying strength, though it will wait for more
evidence of sustained improvement before slowing stimulus.  FOMC Statement  In a statement released at the end of a two-day meeting,
the FOMC dropped its warning from last month that “the
tightening of financial conditions observed in recent months --
if sustained -- could slow the pace of improvement in the
economy and labor market.”  The odds of the central bank starting to taper its stimulus
in January rose to 45 percent from 25 percent before yesterday’s
statement, Citigroup Inc. said. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg
on Oct. 17-18 had predicted the Fed would wait until March to
reduce its monthly bond purchases.  Volkswagen climbed 2 percent to 187.20 euros after
Citigroup Inc. raised its 12-month price estimate on the
preferred shares of Europe’s largest car manufacturer to 224
euros from 220 euros. The brokerage cited the company’s control
of costs and strong cash flow.  Daimler Gains  Auto-related companies posted the largest rally of the 19
industry groups in the Stoxx Europe 600 Index today.  Daimler AG (DAI) ,
the world’s third-biggest manufacturer of luxury cars, advanced
1.8 percent to 60.44 euros.  Lufthansa lost 2.9 percent to 14.27 euros after posting
third-quarter revenue of 8.3 billion euros ($11 billion). That
missed the  average analyst estimate  of 8.4 billion euros. The
airline also said that the single currency’s appreciation cut
380 million euros from revenue in the nine months through
September. The euro has posted the best performance among a
basket of 10 developed-market currencies this year.  Deutsche Boerse dropped 2.5 percent to 55.45 euros. Its
International Securities Exchange business, which runs the
third-largest U.S. options venue, had trouble sending
information yesterday to the Options Price Reporting Authority.
That was at least the sixth mishap this year involving the main
price feed for equity derivatives.  Draegerwerk AG & Co.  lost 2.2 percent to 86.50 euros. The
aerospace supplier posted an earnings before interest and taxes
margin of 5.8 percent for the three months through September. It
generated a margin of 7.6 percent in the same period a year ago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecile Vannucci in  New York  at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  