-- Europe Bonds Rise on Inflation Drop; Spain Yields Fall Below 4%
-- B y   N e a l   A r m s t r o n g   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2013-10-31T16:18:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/german-bunds-rise-after-euro-area-inflation-unexpectedly-falls.html
European government bonds rose, led
by shorter-maturity notes, after a report showing euro-area
inflation fell to a four-year low boosted speculation the
central bank will lower interest rates.  Spanish 10-year yields dropped below 4 percent for the
first time since May, while benchmark German yields fell to the
 lowest  level since August as separate data showed the
unemployment rate in the region climbed to a record in
September. Italian, French and Dutch bonds also rallied before
European Central Bank policy makers led by President Mario Draghi meet next week. UBS AG said it expects the ECB will cut
borrowing costs at the gathering.  “The data will fuel expectation that Draghi will adopt a
dovish tone in the next meeting,” said Lyn Graham-Taylor, a
fixed-income strategist at Rabobank International in London.
“We are likely to see bids for government bonds, particularly
at the shorter end. Having said that, we see this as a trough
rather than the beginning of a pathway to deflation.”  Spain’s two-year rate fell eight basis points, or 0.08
percentage point, to 1.52 percent at 4:13 p.m.  London  time. The
3.75 percent note maturing in October 2015 rose 0.155, or 1.55
euros per 1,000-euro face amount ($1,361) to 104.32. The
nation’s 10-year yield was two basis points lower at 4.04
percent after sliding to 3.98 percent, the least since May 3.  The extra  yield  investors demand to hold Spanish 10-year
bonds instead of two-year notes widened six basis points to 251
basis points. The spread, known as the yield curve, shrank to
240 basis points yesterday, the narrowest since June 20.  ‘Subdued Outlook’  The euro area’s  annual inflation rate  fell to 0.7 percent,
the least since November 2009, from 1.1 percent in September,
the European Union’s statistics office said. The median forecast
in a Bloomberg News survey of economists was for it to stay at
1.1 percent.  The ECB has said there is a “subdued outlook” for price
growth in the 17-nation euro region and the October data marks
the ninth consecutive month that the rate has been less than its
2 percent ceiling. While the economy has exited a recession and
surveys have improved, the central bank predicts only a
“gradual” recovery.  Today’s labor-market report showed that the jobless rate in
August was revised to 12.2 percent from 12 percent previously.
The jobless rate among those aged under 25 was 24.1 percent in
September.  The ECB will cut its benchmark  interest rate  by 25 basis
points to 0.25 percent at its Nov. 7 meeting, London-based UBS
economist Reinhard Cluse wrote in a research note today. The
bank previously said policy makers will keep rates on hold until
the end of 2015.  Rate Forecasts  BNP Paribas SA, JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Scotiabank all
changed their ECB calls today and now predict that officials
will cut the benchmark rate in December.  Weaker-than-estimated inflation figures earlier raise
“very big” questions about the outlook for inflation and about
the ECB’s response, JPMorgan economist Greg Fuzesi wrote in a
research note.  Germany ’s  two-year  note yield fell three basis points to
0.12 percent after sliding to 0.11 percent, the lowest since
Aug. 1. The 10-year yield was little changed at 1.68 percent
after touching 1.65 percent, the least since Aug. 8.  “Bunds are reacting positively to the data,” said  Peter Schaffrik , head of European rates strategy at RBC Capital
Markets in London. “It’s likely to cement a view that the
European Central Bank will not be in a hurry to raise rates. But
equally, I don’t expect them to cut rates because of that
either.”  Demand Cools  Historically low bond yields damped demand from some German
investors. Fourteen percent of institutional investors surveyed
in Germany, who together manage more than 300 billion euros,
said they want to avoid sovereign debt and focus more on
alternative assets because of the low interest-rate environment,
according to a survey published today by Universal Investment
GmbH in  Frankfurt .  Germany’s 10-year  break-even rate  shrank by five basis
points to 1.58 percentage points, the least since July 30, based
on closing prices. The rate, a gauge of inflation expectations
that is derived from the yield difference between bunds and
index-linked securities, has averaged 1.7 percentage points this
year.  Volatility on Greek bonds was the highest in euro-area
markets today, followed by those of Germany and  Italy , according
to measures of 10-year debt, the yield spread between two- and
10-year securities and credit-default swaps.  Greek 10-year yields fell as much as 36 basis points to
8.05 percent, the  lowest  since June 2010.  Spain’s bonds returned 11 percent this year through
yesterday, according to Bloomberg World Bond Indexes. Italy’s
gained 6.2 percent, while German bonds lost 1.1 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Neal Armstrong in London at 
 narmstrong8@bloomberg.net ;
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  