-- MGM China Profit Misses Estimates on Rising Competition
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n   a n d   R a c h e l   E v a n s
-- 2013-10-31T13:59:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/mgm-china-profit-misses-estimates-on-rising-competition.html
MGM China Holdings Ltd. (2282) , a Macau
casino operator, reported third-quarter profit that missed
analyst estimates as rising competition drew some gamblers away
from its sole casino in the world’s largest gambling market.  Adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, or Ebitda, excluding a branding license fee, rose
26 percent to $198.8 million, from $157.5 million a year ago,
according to today’s filing from  MGM Resorts International (MGM) , the
company’s U.S.-based parent. That lagged the average estimate of
$202 million from nine analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  MGM faces rising competition from bigger rivals such as
Sands  China  Ltd. and  Galaxy Entertainment Group Ltd. (27)  which
already have projects on the increasingly popular Cotai Strip in
Macau, a piece of reclaimed land that is Asia’s equivalent of
the Las Vegas Strip. MGM has a casino on the peninsula and is
building its second resort in Cotai.  “As we continue to see capacity constraints in Macau,
MGM’s growth will be limited before its Cotai project becomes
operational,” Grant Govertsen, a Macau-based analyst at Union
Gaming Group, said by phone before the earnings announcement.
“We still rank MGM higher than its peers in the peninsula
because of its meaningful revamping of the casino.”  Sands China Ltd. (1928) , Galaxy Entertainment Group Ltd. and  Melco
Crown Entertainment Ltd. (6883)  are adding new attractions to their
casino resorts in Cotai to lure mainland Chinese gamblers, who
make up two-thirds of gambling revenue in the former Portuguese
colony.  Stock Performance  Shares of MGM China fell 3.8 percent to close at HK$26.70
in Hong Kong trading before the earnings release. The stock has
gained 90 percent this year, compared with the benchmark Hang
Seng Index’s 2.4 percent gain.  Net revenue at MGM China climbed 22 percent to $808.5
million, mainly because of VIP revenue and main-floor table
games, according to the filing. Macau casino mogul Stanley Ho’s
daughter Pansy Ho holds a 27 percent stake in the company.  Turnover at MGM China’s VIP-room gambling tables rose 28
percent from a year earlier, and wins increased 31 percent for
main-floor tables and 4 percent for slot machines, MGM said.  Gambling revenue in  Macau , the only place in China where
casinos are legal, gained 17 percent to $33 billion in the first
nine months of this year, after raking in $38 billion in 2012.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Vinicy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net ;
Rachel Evans in Hong Kong at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  