-- MGM Resorts Falls as Macau Cash Flow Misses Some Estimates
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-10-31T20:21:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/mgm-resorts-posts-narrower-loss-as-macau-spurs-revenue-growth.html
MGM Resorts International (MGM)  fell the
most in four months after third-quarter  cash flow  from its
casinos in Macau and Las Vegas missed the estimates of some
analysts.  MGM Resorts declined 6.2 percent to $19.04 at the close in
 New York , the biggest drop since June 20. The shares have
advanced 64 percent this year.  “We were a little below on some of the estimates, no
excuses,” MGM Chairman and Chief Executive Officer James Murren
said in a telephone interview. “Maybe some people got ahead of
themselves.”  Investors were looking for MGM Resorts to translate more of
its revenue growth into profit, especially at lower-end
properties, Cameron McKnight, an analyst with Wells Fargo
Securities, said in a research note. Earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization at MGM China totaled $191
million, missing his estimate by 2 percent, while Ebitda in  Las
Vegas  was $280 million, $9 million below his projection.  MGM Resorts, the largest casino operator on the Las Vegas
Strip, has benefited in recent years from dramatic growth in
gambling in Macau and a gradual recovery in visitors to its
hometown in  Nevada . The company issued  shares  in its Chinese
subsidiary in June 2011.  The net loss narrowed to $31.9 million, or 7 cents a share,
from a loss of $181.2 million, or 37 cents, a year earlier, Las
Vegas-based MGM Resorts said today in a  statement . Excluding
items, profit was 2 cents a share, compared with the 3-cent loss
projected by analysts, the average of 23 estimates.  Sales rose 9.2 percent to $2.46 billion, exceeding the
$2.42 billion average of analysts’  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg.  Betting in Macau, the only part of China where casino
gambling is legal, gained 19 percent to 89.5 billion patacas
($11.2 billion) in the period, according to the region’s Gaming
Inspection & Coordination Bureau. Casino revenue on the  Las
Vegas Strip  rose 4.9 percent to  $1.66 billion  in the quarter,
according to the Nevada Gaming Control Board.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  