-- Gross Says America’s Privileged 1% Should Pay Higher Taxes
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2013-10-31T12:25:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/gross-says-america-s-privileged-1-should-pay-higher-taxes.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.’s
 Bill Gross  said that wealthy Americans, having reaped the
benefits of favorable tax treatment, should be willing to pay a
greater share to bolster the prospects of the working class.  “If you’re in the privileged 1 percent, you should be
paddling right alongside and willing to support higher taxes on
carried interest, and certainly  capital gains  readjusted to
existing marginal income tax rates,” Gross wrote in his monthly
investment outlook posted on  Newport Beach , California-based
Pimco’s website today. “ Stanley Druckenmiller  and  Warren Buffett  have recently advocated similar proposals. The era of
taxing ’capital’ at lower rates than ‘labor’ should now end.”  Gross criticized a growing trend of large U.S. companies
retaining earnings or buying back shares at the expense of
labor, as expenses were cut along the way. Companies need to be
reinvesting in plants and equipment rather than focusing on cost
cutting and equity buybacks, he said.  Gross’s public pronouncements can rock the markets. After he
rebuked General Electric Capital Corp. in March 2002, saying the
finance arm of General Electric Co. was amassing too much short-term debt, the stock of GE tumbled 6 percent in two days.  Gross said today that his criticism in past years was
supposed to be indicative of the growing use of leverage rather
than to be company specific. Companies continue to increase
earnings while revenue remains flat, he said.  “Never have American companies sent a greater share of
their sales to the bottom line,” Gross wrote in the outlook
today. “Even when S&P 500 companies have witnessed a decline in
corporate earnings” at the same time “they have still
experienced earnings per share gains.”  Wealth Distribution  Gross’s personal wealth is estimated at $2 billion. The 69-year-old Pimco co-founder has endowed a foundation with $293
million in assets and raised money for Doctors Without Borders,
a medical charity, by selling parts of his stamp collection.  Gross, who was urged by billionaire  Carl Icahn  to give at
least half his wealth to charity, said yesterday that he and his
wife, Sue, are committed to giving away all their money before
they die. Gross, speaking in an interview on the CNBC television
network yesterday, said he’s following a pledge by steel magnate
and philanthropist  Andrew Carnegie , who called it a disgrace for
a wealthy person to die with money.  Apple Dispute  Icahn and Gross, in a public exchange of Twitter posts over
the past week, have prodded each other to devote more effort to
helping people. Gross, who started the discussion on Oct. 24,
said Icahn should stop pushing Apple Inc. for a stock buyback
and instead spend more time on philanthropy like  Bill Gates , the
Microsoft Corp. co-founder, and his wife, Melinda.  “Developed economies work best when inequality of incomes
are at a minimum,” Gross wrote. “By reducing the 20 percent of
national income that ‘golden scrooges’ now earn, by implementing
more equitable  tax reform  that equalizes capital gains, carried
interest and nominal income tax rates, we might move up the list
to challenge more productive economies such as Germany and
 Canada .”  The share of private-equity managers’ profits in buyout
deals is known as carried interest. President  Barack Obama ’s
2014 budget proposal released in April had proposed taxing
carried interest at ordinary income rates rather than
preferential rates provided to long-term capital gains.  The $250 billion Total Return Fund managed by Gross has
gained 0.93 percent in the past month,  outperforming  58 percent
of comparable funds, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The fund has returned 8.4 percent on an annual basis in the past
five years, placing it in the 77 percentile.  Pimco, a unit of the Munich-based insurer  Allianz SE (ALV) ,
managed $1.97 trillion in  assets  as of June 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in  New York  at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  