-- IBM’s 2.5 Billion-Euro Bond Offering Fuels U.S. Debt Sales Surge
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2013-10-31T16:06:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/ibm-follows-p-g-issuing-euro-debt-as-yield-drop-spurs-u-s-sales.html
International Business Machines
Corp. (IBM)  is marketing its biggest ever bond sale in euros, fueling
the busiest week for deals in the currency by U.S. borrowers in
six months.  The world’s largest computer-services provider is marketing
2.5 billion euros ($3.4 billion) of seven- and 12-year
securities after  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)  and  Coca-Cola Enterprises
Inc. (CCE)  sold a combined 1.1 billion euros of debt this week. The
average yield on investment-grade bonds in euros fell to a four-month low of 2 percent, 118 basis points below  dollar  rates,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data.  U.S. companies are seeking to lock in lower borrowing costs
as the European Central Bank pledged to hold down interest rates
to support the region’s nascent economic recovery. The Federal
Reserve fueled speculation it will begin scaling back stimulus
sooner than previously expected, with policy makers saying
yesterday the U.S. economy is showing signs of “underlying
strength.”  “Companies can raise funds quite a lot cheaper in
Europe,” said Jens Vanbrabant, lead money manager at London-based investment firm ECM Asset Management Ltd., which has $8.6
billion in credit under management and will invest in IBM’s
seven-year bonds. “Yields are a lot higher in the U.S. because
the tapering sell-off was much stronger there. This should
continue because the U.S. economy is growing faster, there is
more focus on tapering and potential rising yields.”  Two-Part Deal  IBM is marketing 1.5 billion euros of notes maturing
November 2020 to yield 42 basis points more than the mid-swap
rate. It’s also offering 1 billion euros of securities due
November 2025 with a spread of 68 basis points, according to a
person familiar with the matter. The Armonk, New York-based
company last  sold  debt in euros in November 2012, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  “The euro market is strong and the conditions were right
to access the market,” said Doug Shelton, a spokesman for IBM
in New York. Proceeds from the bond sale will be used for
general corporate purposes, he said.  The average spread investors demand to hold high-grade
bonds in euros dropped to 80 basis points more than swaps, the
lowest in five weeks, according to Bloomberg  bond index  data.  “European bond investors are hungry for issuance as
European corporates reduced their net borrowings this year in
the wake of rating downgrades and austerity,” said Georg Grodzki, head of credit research at Legal & General Investment
Management in  London . “By contrast, U.S. corporates are
massively buying back shares and need to raise more debt.”  PIK Deal  Elsewhere in European credit markets, AA Group Ltd., the
roadside recovery and insurance division of Folkestone, England-based Acromas Holdings Ltd., sold payment-in-kind toggle notes
to refinance existing debt, according to a person familiar with
the matter.  AA issued 350 million pounds ($561 million) of six-year
senior PIK toggle notes yielding 9.5 percent through its AA PIK
Co. Ltd. unit, the person said. The notes, which can be bought
back by the company after 1 1/2 years, give borrowers the option
of paying coupons with cash or more debt.  NH Hoteles SA (NHH) , Spain’s largest business hotel chain, is
selling 250 million euros of six-year senior secured notes to
yield about 7 percent. The Madrid-based company is also
marketing 250 million euros of convertible notes paying a coupon
of 4 percent to refinance debt, according to a regulatory
filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in Madrid at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  