-- Ibovespa Futures Decline as Metals Fall on U.S. Stimulus Outlook
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2013-10-31T11:29:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/ibovespa-futures-decline-as-metals-fall-on-u-s-stimulus-outlook.html
Ibovespa  futures  dropped, after the
benchmark equity gauge fell for a second straight session
yesterday, as lower metal prices dimmed the outlook for  Brazil ’s
raw-material producers.  Cia. de Bebidas das Americas, Latin America’s largest
brewer, may move after reporting third-quarter earnings that
were less than analysts forecast.  Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas
Gerais SA  may be active after HSBC Holdings Plc raised its
recommendation on the steelmaker to the equivalent of buy.  Ibovespa futures contracts expiring in December rose 0.5
percent to 53,860 at 9:19 a.m. in Sao Paulo. The equity index is
up 3.2 percent this month. The real slid 0.3 percent to 2.1974
per dollar today. The Bloomberg Base Metals 3-Month Price
declined 0.5 percent on speculation the Federal Reserve will
start to slow U.S. economic stimulus sooner than forecast.  “Brazilian stocks will probably follow the worsening in
the external outlook and fall,” Banco Bradesco SA’s economic
team wrote in a note to clients, citing a “negative” market
reaction from a statement yesterday when the Fed said the U.S.
economy is showing signs of strength.  OGX Petroleo e Gas Participacoes SA , the oil company owned
by former billionaire  Eike Batista , will be removed from the
Ibovespa stock benchmark today after it filed for bankruptcy
protection, BM&FBovespa said in a statement. While the stock
will continue to trade in Sao Paulo, it will be cut from the
gauge after markets close. The Ibovespa will be rebalanced after
OGX’s removal.  Brazil’s main equity index entered a bull market Sept. 9
after rising 20 percent from this year’s low on July 3 through
that day. The gauge is still down 17 percent in dollar terms
this year, compared with a decline of 1.8 percent for the MSCI
 Emerging Markets  Index of 21 developing nations’ equities.  Trading volume of stocks in Sao Paulo was 6.87 billion
reais yesterday, compared with a daily average of 7.61 billion
reais this year through Oct. 22, according to the latest data
available from the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  