-- Midland Crudes Strengthen After Texas Refinery Finishes Work
-- B y   D a n   M u r t a u g h   a n d   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2013-10-31T20:27:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/midland-crudes-strengthen-after-texas-refinery-finishes-work.html
West  Texas  Sour crude strengthened
against the U.S. benchmark after a refinery that processes the
high-sulfur grade finished maintenance.  WTS, a medium-density crude priced in Midland, Texas,
gained 25 cents to a discount of $5.75 a barrel below West Texas
Intermediate in Cushing,  Oklahoma , at 4:43 p.m., according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Phillips 66 (PSX)  finished planned work at the Borger refinery in
north Texas, Rich Johnson, a Houston-based spokesman for the
company, said by e-mail. The refinery processes primarily
medium, sour crude delivered through pipelines from western
Texas, the Texas Panhandle, Wyoming and  Canada , according to the
company’s website.  WTI in Midland also strengthened against its counterpart in
Cushing, narrowing its discount by 25 cents to $4.50 a barrel.  Midland is the closest hub to the Permian Basin, the
largest oil field in the U.S. at more than 1.2 million barrels a
day, according to the Energy Information Administration.  After hovering near parity with WTI in Cushing for most of
this year, Midland prices fell in October amid refinery
maintenance and pipeline constraints.  Pipeline Work  Magellan Midstream Partners LP (MMP)  had “downtime” on its
Longhorn pipeline in the third quarter because of pump work
associated with an expansion planned next year, Chief Executive
Officer Mike Mears said during the company’s third-quarter
earnings call today. The line carries crude to Houston from
western Texas.  Western Refining Inc. (WNR) , which operates refineries in Texas
and New Mexico, predicts the Midland discounts will last through
early next year, executives said in a conference call.  “Our view is that a number of factors come into play
impacting the Midland spread,” Gary Hanson, a Tempe, Arizona-based spokesman for the company, said by e-mail. “Things like
unplanned downtime of some refineries in Q4, planned maintenance
in Q1, the delay of starting some pipelines in the area, and the
growth in production in the area. All of these combined will
have an impact on the Midland spread through the first quarter
of 2014.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dan Murtaugh in Houston at 
 dmurtaugh@bloomberg.net ;
Lynn Doan in San Francisco at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  