-- Higher Homeownership Poses Risk to Employment: Cutting Research
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2013-10-31T22:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/higher-homeownership-poses-risk-to-employment-cutting-research.html
With greater homeownership may come
greater unemployment.  As more people own their own homes, they gradually
interfere with efficient functioning of labor markets, leading
to higher levels of joblessness, economists  David Blanchflower 
and Andrew Oswald wrote in a policy paper published in October
by  Chatham House  and the Centre for Competitive Advantage in the
Global Economy at the University of Warwick, U.K.  Western governments have intervened in housing markets
through subsidies, guarantees or tax allowances, and touted the
resulting higher level of homeownership as a “creditable
achievement” of their administrations, they said.  The result: Residential property owners may try to hold
back development in their areas through zoning restrictions that
would curb  job creation  and business ventures, while those who
have homes and are out of work may be reluctant to move to seek
employment, the authors wrote. A 1 percent increase in
homeownership is estimated to lead to a 2.2 percent gain in
unemployment over the long term, they said.  “What is the price paid by society for the widening of
home ownership?” the economists wrote. “The research suggests
that policies have led to an unknowing impairment of the markets
for labor and enterprise. The evidence is that high home
ownership weakens the vitality of the  labor market  and slowly
grinds out greater rates of joblessness.”  Governments should encourage more rentals instead of
providing financial incentives to those buying homes,
Blanchflower and Oswald said.  “High levels of home ownership do not destroy jobs in the
short term; they tend to do so, according to our estimates, a
number of years later,” Blanchflower and Oswald wrote. “Unless
these long linkages are properly understood by politicians and
other policy-makers, the deleterious consequences of high levels
of home ownership cannot be appreciated.”  Home-owning may not be a great investment right now anyway:
With about $1.45 trillion of mortgage bonds on its balance
sheet, the  Federal Reserve ’s plan to taper  debt  purchases
doesn’t augur well for the U.S. housing market, says  David Carbon , an economist at DBS Group Holdings Ltd. in  Singapore .  Given the average U.S. home price of $180,000, the Fed has
purchased the equivalent of 8.1 million units since 2008, about
6.2 percent of the entire U.S. housing stock, Carbon wrote in an
Oct. 28 note.  “The Fed has been clear about its intent to support
housing,” he said. “And it seems to be doing a pretty good job
of it” with  housing starts  and  home prices  rising.  The danger is that the Fed may have had “too much” to do
with the rebound. It remains to be seen if new  home sales  and
prices, as well as housing starts, can maintain gains if the
central bank stops its mortgage bond purchases.  “Take away the buyer and chances are the other things
disappear too,” Carbon said. “At least that’s the risk. It’s
not rocket science forecasting. It’s Economics 101.”  ***  China ’s slower economic growth should be welcomed because
it reflects efforts to create a more stable expansion that will
sustain domestic and global demand over the long term.  That’s the conclusion of Steven Barnett, Division Chief in
the  Asia  and Pacific Department of the  International Monetary
Fund . He wrote in an Oct. 29  blog  posting on the Washington-based lender’s website that the world’s second-largest economy
may become more vulnerable because imbalances such as  investment 
now account for almost half of output, one of the highest shares
in the world.  Growth may slow to an average of 6 percent a year through
2030 from the 10 percent rate over the last 30 years as the
stimulus of investment is curbed in favor of liberalization in
banking and service industries, Barnett said. The changes would
broaden the benefits of China’s transformation, so that income
per person could rise to 40 percent of the U.S. by 2030 instead
of 25 percent.  “This would be a fantastic outcome,” he wrote. “China’s
success -- which will substantially increase income in China --
will also mean much higher global demand and will thus be hugely
important for a robust and healthy global economy.”  * * *  While not all financial crises are the same, the two most
recent major regional ones in Asia and  Europe  may have had more
similarities than differences, said  Edwin Truman , a senior
fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics in
 Washington .  Among what the two meltdowns had in common as they evolved
were surprises, denials and delays by policy makers, differing
diagnoses, and frequent restarts and recalibrations, wrote
Truman in a  working paper  published in October. He was an
assistant U.S. Treasury secretary in the Clinton administration.
The “significant differences” were the funds made available to
countries, he said.  “The European crises countries received more financial
support, despite the fact that their crises involved solvency
issues rather than just liquidity issues compared with the Asian
crises,” Truman wrote. “The programs adopted in the European
crises generally have been less demanding and rigorous than
those in the Asian crises.”  While financial crises are inevitable, the degree of future
ones can be mitigated if countries are more concerned about
their vulnerabilities, Truman said.  “Any student of crises would conclude that there were no
real surprises, just amplified variations on the basic theme of
excesses that get out of hand, investors who think they can pull
out before the crash but end up being victims of the crash, and
policymakers in denial,” he wrote. “Policymakers consequently
delay taking corrective actions, disagree on diagnoses and,
therefore, on short-term and longer-term policy prescriptions
with respect to  crisis management , crisis prevention, and crisis
preparation.”  ***  Transparency in government fiscal reporting will probably
increase in the years to come, according to a study by an
economist at the IMF.  Timothy Irwin’s  report  shows how the level of openness
about public finances that western governments have been willing
to allow has fluctuated throughout history, he wrote. The
Netherlands, for instance, shared information on its finances in
the 1600s and  France  did so in the second half of 1700s. Now,
with accountability and transparency high up the political
agenda, it is expected to rise.  “The fiscal problems of many western European states
create pressure for improvements in published budgets, accounts,
and fiscal statistics,” Irwin, a member of the IMF’s fiscal
affairs department, said in the Oct. 25 working paper. “The
ever-falling costs of storing, analyzing, and transmitting
information may radically increase the amount of information
that governments in Europe and elsewhere make available about
their finances.”  Improvements still need to be made, Irwin said. More
“plain-language” summaries of public finances should be
provided and there are notable gaps in some of the information
that governments publish, he said.  “It may be difficult or impossible to find information on,
among other things, the values of these governments’
nonfinancial assets, pension liabilities, or derivatives,” he
said.  * * *  Want to earn more? Go play outside.  There’s a link between sports participation and earnings,
according to an October  study  by Michael Lechner of the
University of  St. Gallen  and Paul Downward of Loughborough
University. The link is biggest for fitness and outdoor sports.
Sports participation also correlates with higher employment
rates for younger men and higher retirement rates for older men.  “Comparing the different sports against each other reveals
that team sports can contribute most to employability, perhaps
by signaling teamwork,” the authors said in a paper published
by the London-based Centre for Economic Policy Research. There
may be “a link between sports participation and the structure
of the labor market connected to initial access to employment
and then higher income opportunities with aging that are
associated with a career ladder.”  There’s variation between genders, and that’s an area for
further research, the authors said. Their investigation suggests
“the effects of sport on either human, health or social capital
that is typically accrued by younger males in their traditional
patterns of participation, needs to be compensated for by
females later in their working life.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  