-- Time Warner Cable’s Profit Tops Estimates on Rate Increases
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2013-10-31T20:42:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/time-warner-cable-profit-tops-estimates-on-broadband-revenue.html
Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC) , the second-largest cable company in the U.S., reported third-quarter profit
that topped estimates as subscriber-rate increases helped make
up for a shrinking pool of customers.  Net income fell 34 percent to $532 million, or $1.84 a
share, in the three months ended in September, from $808
million, or $2.60, a year earlier, the New York-based company
said today in a statement. Excluding one-time costs, earnings
per share were $1.69, surpassing the $1.64 average analyst
estimate, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Revenue from residential high-speed Internet subscribers
rose 14 percent in the period to $1.46 billion from a year
earlier, even as those customers declined in number. Time Warner
Cable also dropped 306,000 video subscribers, as the broader
cable industry continues to face increased competition from
newer video providers such as  AT&T Inc. (T)  and streaming services
such as  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)   While profit topped estimates, the company lost residential
subscribers at all its business lines, including 24,000
broadband customers -- the first time it had lost numbers in
that once-booming category. The company increased profit by
raising the average monthly bill paid by customers.  Malone Looms  The subscriber exodus may strengthen the effort by
billionaire investor  John Malone  to combine Time Warner with
 Charter Communications Inc. (CHTR) , according to  Craig Moffett , founder
of research firm MoffettNathanson LLC.  “These results are so bad that it makes it extraordinarily
difficult for the Time Warner Cable board to continue to resist
Charter’s overtures,” he said in an interview following the
report.  Malone’s holding company,  Liberty Media Corp. (LMCA) , is the
largest shareholder in Charter. After acquiring a 27 percent
stake in the  Stamford , Connecticut-based cable company, Malone
said he wanted Charter to be “a horizontal acquisition
machine.”  Time Warner Cable shares rose 2.8 percent to $120.15 at the
close in New York. The stock has gained 24 percent this year.  Malone’s overtures to Time Warner Cable are part of a
broader push for consolidation in the cable industry. Pay-TV
companies are having to pay more to carry programming from the
major cable and broadcast networks, and Malone has said that
bulking up would help extract better terms.  Time Warner Cable recently agreed to pay a significant
increase for the right to carry  CBS Corp. (CBS)  programming, ending a
dispute that caused a monthlong blackout in the quarter. Cable
customers in Dallas, New York and Los Angeles missed some of
CBS’s popular programming such as “Under the Dome” and “60
Minutes” as a result of the dispute.  Time Warner Cable sales gained 2.9 percent last quarter to
$5.52 billion, just short of the $5.54 billion average estimate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  