-- IMF Urges Germany to Look to ‘Global Horizon’ in Policy Making
-- B y   B e n   S c h e n k e l
-- 2013-10-31T18:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/imf-urges-germany-to-look-to-global-horizon-in-policy-making.html
German officials need to consider
the global ramifications of policies shaping Europe's fiscal 
rules and banking system, the No. 2 official at the 
International Monetary Fund said.  “As  Germany  carries on the work of the European project,
it should lift its sights to the global horizon,” David Lipton,
the IMF’s first deputy managing director, said in the text of a
speech today in Berlin.  The largest economy in the 17-nation euro area should pay
attention to risks and opportunities overseas while it continues
to steer the bloc’s recovery from an 18-month recession, Lipton
said. Germany has called for austerity in the distressed
economies such as Greece and Ireland receiving its bailout
money, an insistence that has been criticized for hampering
growth and limiting job creation.  Europe is emerging from its “deep recession, but only
just” while the U.S. economy is “recovering steadily” and
 Japan  is “looking up, but still has a ways to go,” Lipton
said.  “As the fog of the crisis recedes, we now see quite
clearly that the path ahead is strewn with huge obstacles that
will be hard and time consuming to traverse,” he said.  Further economic openness in developing countries would
create “potentially vast markets for Germany and other advanced
economies,” Lipton said.  Emerging markets  account for about 30
percent of Germany’s exports, according to Lipton.  Banking Union  Policy makers in Europe should also act in a way that
reforms in their banking system won’t discourage productive
lending activities too much, Lipton said. While the new
liquidity regulations will help prevent another deep crisis,
they have been causing some banks to move away from core
functions such as small-business lending and project finance
considered essential to supporting growth, he said.  “For individual countries, the task is to balance medium-term consolidation with the immediate need for growth-friendly
policies,” Lipton said. “I know that these are difficult
questions, and that fiscal union is particularly controversial
in this country.”  In his speech, Lipton also recommended that officials
prepare for the effect of higher interest rates whenever the
U.S. abandons unconventional monetary policy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Schenkel in Washington at 
 bschenkel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  