-- India’s Sensex Swing Between Gains, Loss Ahead of Futures Expiry
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2013-10-31T04:10:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/india-s-sensex-swing-between-gains-loss-ahead-of-futures-expiry.html
Indian (SENSEX)  stocks swung between gains
and losses after the benchmark index rose to a record closing
high yesterday. Derivatives contracts expire today.  DLF Ltd. (DLFU) , the nation’s biggest developer, declined to a
three-week low after its quarterly net income fell 28 percent.
Tractor maker  Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. (MM)  dropped for the second
day. Sesa Sterlite Ltd. and drugmaker  Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories
Ltd. (DRRD)  gained ahead of their earnings later today.  The S&P BSE Sensex lost less than 0.1 percent to 21,030.67
at 9:40 a.m. in Mumbai, after changing directions at least six
times. The gauge has gained 8.6 percent this month, poised for
the largest advance since January 2012. It rose to an all-time
high yesterday as earnings beat forecasts and amid speculation
continued Federal Reserve stimulus will spur capital inflows.  “Some investors would be tempted to book profits given the
market has rallied to a record,” Kishor Ostwal, managing
director at CNI Research Ltd., said in a phone interview today.
“We expect a volatile session as monthly futures expire.”  Global funds bought a net $197 million of local shares on
Oct. 29, an 18th day of consecutive purchases, data from the
regulator showed yesterday. That extended this year’s inflow to
$15.9 billion, the second-highest after  Japan  among 10 Asian
markets tracked by Bloomberg. Quarterly profits at 14 out of 17
Sensex companies that have reported results so far surpassed
analyst estimates.  Asian stocks fell today, trimming the best two-month rally
for the MSCI Asia Pacific Index since the start of 2012, after a
Fed statement yesterday fueled bets it may start paring stimulus
sooner than previously forecast, even as it maintained the pace
of monthly bond-buying.  The Sensex is the best performer among the four largest
 emerging markets  this year and trades at 14.2 times projected
12-month earnings, compared with the MSCI Emerging Markets
Index’s 10.5 times.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Patterson at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  