-- India’s Rupee Set for Second Monthly Gain as Stock Inflows Surge
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2013-10-31T05:01:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/india-s-rupee-set-for-second-monthly-gain-as-stock-inflows-surge.html
India ’s rupee headed for a second
monthly gain as the  Federal Reserve ’s decision to maintain its
stimulus boosted foreign purchases of emerging-market stocks.  Global funds bought a net $2.5 billion of Indian shares
this month, exchange data show, as the  S&P BSE Sensex Index (SENSEX) 
climbed to a record close yesterday. The Fed yesterday
reiterated it will keep buying $85 billion of bonds a month. The
 Reserve Bank  of India’s offer of concessional swaps for dollars
raised by local banks will attract about $15 billion, according
to two officials with knowledge of the matter.  “The recent correction in the rupee is more because of
global risk-on and foreign flows, which tend to be unreliable,”
said Samir Lodha, senior partner at QuantArt Market Solutions
Pvt. in Mumbai. “However, a resolute and confident RBI is a big
positive in itself since India holds ample currency reserves”
and the rupee’s plunge to a record was partly a “crisis of
confidence,” he said.  The rupee rose 2.1 percent this month to 61.3300 per dollar
as of 9:50 a.m. in Mumbai, according to prices from local banks
compiled by Bloomberg. It fell 0.1 percent today.  The $15 billion projection for the swap program would
exceed both the RBI and government’s earlier expectations, said
the officials with direct knowledge of the matter, asking not to
be identified as the information is private.  India’s currency rebounded 12.3 percent from a record low
of 68.845 per dollar reached on Aug. 28. RBI Governor Raghuram
Rajan said Oct. 29 the swap window attracted $12 billion. The
facility was announced on Sept. 4 and is due to end on Nov. 30.  One-month implied volatility in the rupee, a gauge of
expected moves in the  exchange rate  used to price options,
dropped 578 basis points, or 5.78 percentage points, to 9.65
percent in October, the lowest level since June.  Monetary Policy  “Normalcy” will be restored to the  currency market  only
when the RBI stops supplying dollars directly to oil refiners
and ceases to divert inflows into its coffers, Rajan said in a
call with analysts yesterday.  The RBI on Oct. 29 raised its benchmark  repurchase  rate to
7.75 percent from 7.50 percent to fight accelerating inflation,
while further easing emergency liquidity curbs that were imposed
in July to support the rupee. It cut its growth forecast for the
year through March 2014 to 5 percent from 5.5 percent.  The Fed is seeking to shield the  U.S. economy  from the
impact of this month’s partial government shutdown. The 16-day
closing reduced growth by 0.3 percentage point this quarter,
according to the median estimate in an Oct. 17-18 Bloomberg
survey.  Three-month onshore rupee forwards fell 0.1 percent today
to 62.62 per dollar, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Offshore
non-deliverable contracts declined 0.1 percent to 62.79.
Forwards are agreements to buy or sell assets at a set price and
date. Non-deliverable contracts are settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  