-- Indian Bonds Head for First Monthly Gain in Five on Cash Supply
-- B y   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i
-- 2013-10-31T04:31:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/indian-bonds-head-for-first-monthly-gain-in-five-on-cash-supply.html
India ’s 10-year bonds headed for
their first monthly gain in five as the central bank took steps
to boost cash supply and the  Federal Reserve  maintained its
record stimulus that has buoyed emerging-market assets.  Reserve Bank  of India Governor Raghuram Rajan cut the
marginal standing facility rate to 8.75 percent from 9 percent
on Oct. 29, the third reduction in two months, further easing
the cash curbs imposed in July to support the rupee. He also
added liquidity by raising lenders’ borrowing limits for term
repurchase contracts. The Fed decided to press on with $85
billion in monthly bond purchases, saying it needs to see more
evidence that the  U.S. economy  will continue to improve.  The yield on the 7.16 percent government notes due May 2023
dropped 18 basis points, or 0.18 percentage point, this month to
8.59 percent as of 9:47 a.m. in Mumbai, prices from the RBI’s
trading system show. The rate, which was unchanged today, surged
153 basis points in the June to September period.  “Yields have somewhat stabilized after the central bank’s
measures to boost liquidity,” said Srinivasa Raghavan, Mumbai-based executive vice-president of treasury at  Dhanlaxmi Bank
Ltd. (DHLBK)  “The range that I’m expecting at least for a month is 8.50
percent to 8.70 percent.”  Rajan, who has said containing inflation is his top
priority, raised the repurchase rate by 25 basis points to 7.75
percent this week, the second increase in two months. The move
came after data showed  wholesale prices  in India rose 6.46
percent in September, the most in seven months, while consumer-price gains quickened to 9.84 percent.  Higher Inflation  “It is important to break the spiral of rising price
pressures in order to curb the erosion of financial saving and
strengthen the foundations of growth,” Rajan said in his Oct.
29 monetary policy statement. The stance seeks to manage
inflation expectations amid weak economic expansion, and the
central bank will “closely monitor inflation risk while being
mindful of the evolving growth dynamics,” he said.  The RBI expects WPI inflation to remain higher than current
levels through most of the remainder of the fiscal year ending
March, with consumer prices remaining around or above 9 percent.
It cut its  economic growth  forecast for the year to 5 percent
from 5.5 percent.  The one-year interest-rate swap, a derivative contract used
to guard against fluctuations in funding costs, slumped 32 basis
points this month to 8.40 percent after an 86-basis point plunge
in September, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The rate was
little changed today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  