-- India’s Essar Eyes Water Projects, Desalination Plants
-- B y   A r c h a n a   C h a u d h a r y
-- 2013-10-31T01:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/india-s-essar-eyes-water-projects-desalination-plants.html
Essar Group, owned by the
billionaire brothers Shashi and  Ravi Ruia , plans to increase its
 India  water revenue more than fourfold by 2017 to meet the
rising demand for water-treatment and supply projects.  Essar intends to bid for desalination plants, water
distribution and sewage facility works in Asia’s third-largest
economy, where the government has set aside 1.1 trillion rupees
($18 billion) for water projects, said Neeraj Sanghi, chief
executive officer of Essar Concessions India Ltd.  “We expect this sector to be more organized over the next
three to five years,” Sanghi said in a phone interview from
Mumbai. “We want to be present when it reaches the tipping
point, which is now coming closer.”  Essar and Indian rivals including  Larsen & Toubro Ltd. (LT)  are
competing with  Veolia Environnement (VIE)  and  Va Tech Wabag Ltd. (VATW)  for
water projects in India. Clean water demand by 2030 may exceed
national supplies by half as pollution and contamination makes
what’s available not fit for human, industrial or farm use,
according to McKinsey & Co. forecasts and a government report.  The company, an arm of the construction unit Essar Projects
Ltd., expects to close the financial year ending March 2014 with
revenue of 2 billion rupees, Sanghi said. He expects that to
reach about 10 billion rupees in five years.  Desalination Projects  India has  sanctioned  1,053 projects valued at 589 billion
rupees to build water supply, drainage and sewage plants under
the Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Renewal Mission to meet
clean-water demands. Per person water availability in India
dropped by 15 percent in a decade, according to the government.  Essar  won  a contract worth 700 million rupees this month to
build a 70 million-liters-a-day treatment plant at Jamnagar in
the western state of Gujarat. The company will invest 800
million rupees to build a pipeline to carry treated water to
industrial customers including its own refinery, Sanghi said.  The company also plans to bid for more water-treatment
projects auctioned by municipalities and is looking to work with
foreign companies to build desalination plants, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Archana Chaudhary in  New Delhi  at 
 achaudhary2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Randall Hackley at 
 rhackley@bloomberg.net  