-- Iran Continues 20%Uranium Enrichment, Zarif Says
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2013-10-31T12:31:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/iran-continues-20-uranium-enrichment-zarif-says.html
Iranian Foreign Minister Mohammad
Javad Zarif said his government hasn’t stopped enriching uranium
to 20 percent purity as a parliamentary committee spokesman was
quoted as saying.  “ Iran  continues to enrich at the level of both 3.5 percent
and at 20 percent,” Zarif told reporters today in the South
African capital,  Pretoria . “This is under International Atomic
Energy Agency monitoring.”  The U.S. and other world powers want Iran to stop enriching
uranium to the 20 percent level. Russian Deputy Foreign Minister
Sergei Ryabkov suggested a 5 percent limit in an Oct. 21 phone
interview. Iranian officials say the material is needed for a
research reactor in the capital, which produces medical isotopes
for cancer treatment.  Hossein Naghavi Hosseini, spokesman for the Iranian
parliament’s national security and foreign policy committee, was
quoted as saying by parliament’s website, ICANA, on Oct. 24 that
Iran stopped purifying uranium to 20 percent after producing
enough fuel for the Tehran Research Reactor. Zarif said that he
believed Hosseini was misquoted and the statement was withdrawn.  Iran’s uranium enrichment has been at the center of a
conflict with world powers, including the U.S. Enriched uranium
can be used as fuel or if further purified to 90 percent can be
used to build nuclear weapons.  Iran is holding talks with the IAEA to give the Vienna-based body wider access to monitor  Iran’s nuclear program  more
closely. While several years of mistrust between Iran and world
powers has to be overcome, Iran is participating in concurrent
discussions with the U.S.,  Russia , China, U.K.,  France  and
 Germany  in “good faith,” Zarif said. The next round of talks
takes place in Geneva on Nov. 7-8.  “We are not seeking nuclear weapons,” Zarif said. “We
believe even the perception that we are seeking nuclear weapons
is detrimental to our security.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  