-- Iraq Needs U.S. Support to Defeat Al-Qaeda, Maliki Says
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2013-10-31T17:48:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/iraq-needs-u-s-support-to-defeat-al-qaeda-maliki-says.html
Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki
called for an international conference on terrorism and said his
country needs U.S. expertise and support to defeat al-Qaeda
attacks that are hampering economic development.  During a visit to Washington that includes a meeting
tomorrow with President  Barack Obama , Maliki used a speech today
to press for greater U.S. assistance and urge patience as Iraq
faces surging violence.  “We could have defeated al-Qaeda completely had the
situation not deteriorated in Syria and Libya,” Maliki said at
the U.S. Institute of Peace, a federally funded organization
created by Congress in 1984 to promote peaceful resolutions of
conflicts. “Extremism developed. Sectarianism developed.”  Maliki was met in Washington by questions about whether his
Shiite-dominated government is fueling unrest by suppressing
Sunni and Kurdish minorities and provoking sectarian divisions.  Six U.S. senators wrote Obama this week saying Maliki is
“pursuing a sectarian and authoritarian agenda” that is
“disenfranchising Sunni Iraqis, marginalizing Kurdish Iraqis,
and alienating the many Shia Iraqis who have a democratic,
inclusive and pluralistic vision for their country.”  Maliki’s “mismanagement of Iraqi politics” is helping
create “the same conditions that drove Iraq toward civil war
during the last decade,” according to the senators, Republicans
 John McCain  of Arizona,  James Inhofe  of Oklahoma,  Bob Corker  of
Tennessee, and  Lindsey Graham  of South Carolina, along with
Democrats  Carl Levin  of Michigan and  Robert Menendez  of New
Jersey. “We fear that fate could befall Iraq once again.”  Suicide Attacks  Bombings and suicide attacks in Iraq have killed more than
5,000 people this year -- a death toll unrivaled since 2009 and
almost double the casualty rate in 2010, according to the  United
Nations .  Barclays Plc (BARC) ’s investment-banking unit cited the
violence this month when it cut forecasts for Iraq’s  gross
domestic product , oil output and exports. Barclays reduced its
2013 GDP projection to 9.1 percent from 10.1 percent.  Maliki today rejected the assertions that his government’s
attempts at consolidating power are stoking strife, saying he
“never, ever, stepped on the constitution.”  Iraq’s unrest stems from terrorism, not sectarian
divisions, he said.  “There is no problem between Sunnis and Shiites,” he
said. “It is al-Qaeda who is killing all the Iraqis.”  Maliki is using his Washington visit partly to seek U.S.
arms for a country that lacks an  air force .  “We want an international war, a global war against
terror,” Maliki said. “We are calling on all countries to hold
an international conference on counterterrorism in Iraq.”  Seeking Stability  Almost two years after U.S. troops pulled out of a war that
cost more than 4,400 American lives, the senators, in their
letter, suggested they would support “appropriate security
assistance” only if Maliki took steps to share more political
power with Sunni Iraqis and resolve territorial disputes with
Kurdish leaders, while ensuring free and fair elections next
year.  If he fails to take those steps, “no amount of security
assistance will be able to bring stability and security to
Iraq,” the senators wrote.  Maliki, who had breakfast yesterday with Vice President  Joe Biden , was pressed by U.S. officials to crack down on Iranian
flights using Iraqi airspace to deliver weapons and support to
the Syrian regime, according to an administration official who
briefed reporters on condition of anonymity.  While Maliki said Iraq lacks fighter planes to shoot down
Iranian flights, the U.S. called on him to toughen inspections
of cargo to stop more shipments, the official said.  Maliki, who became prime minister in 2006, declined to say
whether he intends to seek another term in elections next year.  “This is something that is up to the Iraqi people,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in  Washington  at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  