-- Israel Said to Strike Syrian Air Base to Destroy Missiles
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o   a n d   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 2013-10-31T21:40:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/israel-strikes-syrian-air-base-to-destroy-missiles-cnn-reports.html
Israel carried out air strikes in
 Syria , according to a U.S. official who asked not to be
identified discussing security matters.  Israeli warplanes struck a Syrian base near the
Mediterranean port of Latakia, targeting missiles that were
earmarked for the Hezbollah militant group, according to reports
by  CNN  and Al-Arabiya television.  Arabiya said Israel carried out another attack around
Damascus late yesterday, without saying where it got the
information. Israeli officials declined to comment and the U.S.
official didn’t provide additional details.  It was at least the fifth report of Israeli strikes on
Syrian targets this year, none of which were confirmed by the
Jewish state. Syria has issued threats of retaliation after
previous incidents, without carrying them out. President Bashar al-Assad’s ability to do so is constrained because he’s battling
rebel militias in a 2 1/2-year civil war that has left more than
100,000 dead.  The Associated Press reported that the attack near Latakia
was aimed at destroying Russian-made missiles.  Hezbollah, a Lebanon-based Shiite movement considered a
terrorist organization by  Israel , the U.S. and the European
Union, has fought alongside Assad’s army in the civil war. The
group emerged in the 1980s in resistance to Israel’s occupation
of south Lebanon. Hezbollah has repeatedly fought with the
Jewish state, including a monthlong war in 2006, though there
have been few clashes in recent years.  “We have a practice of not commenting on these kinds of
incidents when they arrive,” Mark Regev, spokesman for Israeli
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, said in a phone interview.  Israel carried out air strikes in Syria in January, May and
 July  this year, according to reports that said the targets in
each case were weapons bound for Hezbollah.  The  New York  Times reported on Aug. 1, citing U.S.
officials, that Israeli intelligence concluded the July attack
near Latakia failed to destroy the whole of the shipment of
Russian-made anti-ship missiles that it had targeted, making
further strikes likely.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Ferziger in Tel Aviv at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  