-- Italy’s Unemployment Soars to Record High on Recession
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2013-10-31T10:17:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/italy-s-unemployment-soars-to-record-high-on-recession.html
Italy’s jobless rate rose more than
forecast in September to an all-time high as companies failed to
hire amid concerns about the persisting recession, the longest
since World War II.  Unemployment (ITMUURS)  increased to 12.5 percent from a revised 12.4
percent in August, the Rome-based national statistics office
Istat said in a preliminary report today. The September rate,
the highest since the data series began in the first quarter of
1977, was above the 12.3 percent median of ten  estimates  in a
Bloomberg survey.  Italy’s economy shrank in the third quarter, prolonging a
record slump that began in 2011 and signaling that the euro
area’s recovery is bypassing its third-biggest economy, Antonio
Golini, the acting chairman of Istat, said this week. He also
told an Oct. 29 hearing in Parliament that the nation’s  gross
domestic product  will fall 1.8 percent this year. That’s more
than the 1.4 percent contraction the statistics office forecast
in May.  “We see the peak of the  unemployment rate  around 13
percent and see no evidence of an improvement from that rate
next year,”  Raffaella Tenconi , an economist at Bank of America
Merrill Lynch in  London , said in an e-mail. “Hiring intentions,
though improving, continue to signal a weakening labor market.”  The unemployment rate for people between the ages of 15 and
24 rose to a historic high of 40.4 percent in September from
40.2 percent, Istat said today. It had originally reported an
August unemployment rate of 12.2 percent.  “Youth unemployment is the true nightmare of our
country,” Prime Minister Enrico Letta said this month and
warned of the risk of a “lost generation.”  Letta’s government projects the country’s unemployment rate
will reach 12.4 percent next year, the Treasury said in a report
last month. That matches a forecast in a September report by the
 International Monetary Fund .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  