-- Dollar, U.S. Stocks Rise as Treasuries, Commodities Drop
-- B y   N i c k   T a b o r e k   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2013-11-01T20:20:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/japan-stock-futures-rise-on-earnings-as-euro-holds-drop.html
The dollar rose for a sixth day while
Treasuries slid as faster-than-forecast growth in manufacturing
fueled speculation the  Federal Reserve  will taper bond
purchases. U.S. stocks climbed after a two-day drop while the
S&P GSCI Index of commodities sank to a four-month low.  The Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index climbed 0.4 percent as of 4
p.m. in  New York . Ten-year Treasury yields added seven basis
points to 2.62 percent, the highest level in two weeks. The
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  rose 0.3 percent to 1,761.64. Crude
slid 1.8 percent, dropping below $95 a barrel for the first time
since June. Heating oil, gold and natural gas lost at least 0.7
percent as the S&P GSCI Index tumbled 1.8 percent. The euro
weakened 0.7 percent to $1.3489 on speculation the  European
Central Bank  will reduce rates.  Manufacturing grew in October at a faster pace than
forecast, showing U.S. factories were a source of strength for
the economy at the start of the fourth quarter. Fed policy
makers said Oct. 30 that the economy showed signs of
“underlying strength” even as they maintained their $85
billion of monthly asset purchases. The ECB may cut rates next
week after data yesterday showed the region’s inflation declined
to the least since November 2009, according to Bank of America
Corp., UBS AG and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.  “There’s some concern clearly that the economic data is
getting better and we might get tapering in December,”  Eric Green , director of research and fund manager at Penn Capital
Management, said by phone. The Philadelphia-based firm oversees
about $7 billion. “As you get positive economic data points,
those that were concerned about the taper get more concerned.”  Manufacturing Data  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s index climbed to
56.4, the highest since April 2011. Readings above 50 indicate
growth. The median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of economists
was 55.  China ’s official manufacturing  Purchasing Managers ’
Index rose more than estimated in last month. A separate
purchasing managers’ index on China from HSBC Holdings Plc and
Markit Economics also topped projections.  Fed Bank of St. Louis President  James Bullard  said gains in
the labor market since September 2012 could warrant a cut in the
Fed’s monthly bond purchases.  Charles Plosser , president of the
Fed Bank of Philadelphia who has opposed the Fed’s current round
of stimulus, said inflation will be a concern as the central
bank unwinds its balance sheet following unprecedented asset
purchases.  Fed stimulus has helped propel the  S&P 500  higher by more
than 160 percent from a 12-year low in 2009. Benchmark indexes
reached record highs on Oct. 29.  Global equities completed the biggest back-to-back monthly
gain in almost two years, beating all other assets in October,
as U.S. lawmakers avoided a debt default and investors
speculated the Fed will maintain stimulus.  October Performance  The MSCI All-Country World Index of stocks in 45 markets
climbed 4.1 percent including dividends in October, bringing the
two-month advance to 9.5 percent. The S&P 500 rose 4.6 percent,
the most since July. Bonds of all types returned 0.9 percent on
average in October, the most since April, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch’s Global Broad Market Index. The Bloomberg
 Dollar Index  fell less than 0.1 percent last month after
touching its lowest level since February, while the S&P GSCI
Total Return Index of 24  commodities  lost 1.4 percent.  U.S. equity exchange-traded funds drew $18.2 billion in
October, the most in three months and the third-highest amount
since 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. About
$110.6 billion has been absorbed this year, putting the stock
ETFs on pace for the highest flows since the records began in
2000.  Corporate Earnings  Equities climbed last month amid better-than-estimated
corporate earnings. Of the 368 companies that have reported
results this season, 75 percent exceeded analysts’ predictions
for profit, while 53 percent beat sales estimates, data compiled
by Bloomberg showed. Profits for members of the gauge probably
increased 4.1 percent in the third quarter as sales climbed 2.9
percent, according to analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Seven of the 10 main groups in the S&P 500 advanced today,
as utility, industrial and health-care stocks led gains.
JPMorgan Chase & Co., Boeing Co. and Pfizer Inc. added at least
1.6 percent for the biggest increases in the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average .  American International Group Inc. (AIG) , the insurer that repaid
a U.S. rescue last year, fell 6.5 percent as premium revenue
declined at the property-casualty division. Barrick Gold Corp.,
the world’s largest producer of the metal, slid 7.1 percent
after saying it plans to trim debt by raising as much as $3.45
billion in a share sale.  Chevron Slumps  Energy companies in the S&P 500 lost 0.3 percent as a group
for the biggest decline. Chevron Corp. slid 1.6 percent as it
reported profit below estimates as weaker refining margins
eroded gains from higher commodity prices and output from wells.
First Solar Inc. rallied 18 percent after the largest U.S.
solar-panel manufacturer said third-quarter profit almost
doubled.  The S&P 500 is up almost 24 percent in 2013, poised for its
best yearly gain in a decade. The benchmark index for U.S.
stocks traded for about 16.8 times reported earnings at its last
record on Oct. 29, the highest valuation in more than three
years.  “We have gotten pretty overbought and we were due for some
pause, which is what we have been getting since the Fed
statement,”  Michael James , a Los Angeles-based managing
director of equity trading at Wedbush Securities Inc., said in
an interview.  ECB Rates  The euro declined against 13 of its 16 major counterparts.
The 17-nation currency dropped for the fifth day against the
dollar and lost 2.3 percent for the week, its worst drop since
July 2012.  Bank of America, UBS and  RBS (RBS)  predict the ECB will cut its
main refinancing rate by 25 basis points on Nov. 7. BNP Paribas
SA, Societe Generale SA, JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Scotiabank
forecast a reduction in December, when the central bank will
publish new economic projections. The ECB last lowered its
benchmark rate on May 2 to a record 0.5 percent.  West Texas Intermediate slid to $94.61 a barrel on surging
U.S. stockpiles and as the dollar gained versus the euro,
curbing commodity demand from investors. Brent for December
settlement dropped 2.7 percent to $105.91 a barrel.  Gold reached a two-week low and cotton fell to the lowest
since January.  European Stocks  About two shares declined for each that advanced in the
Stoxx 600. The gauge dropped 0.3 percent for the day, leaving
the gauge up 0.4 percent for the week.  Renault SA,  France ’s second-biggest carmaker, lost 5
percent after its partner Nissan Motor Co. cut its full-year
profit forecast. RBS fell 7.5 percent after forecasting a
“substantial” full-year loss. Vodafone Group Plc rose 3.6
percent after people familiar with the matter said AT&T Inc. is
exploring a takeover of  Europe ’s biggest mobile carrier as soon
as next year.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index fell for a second day,
slipping 0.6 percent. Thailand’s benchmark stock index slid 1
percent to an almost four-week low as a bill granting amnesty
for political offenses spurred protests in Bangkok. The Jakarta
Composite index lost 1.7 percent and the rupiah weakened for a
fifth day in its worst week since August as the nation’s trade
balance unexpectedly swung back to a deficit in September.  The Shanghai Composite Index advanced 0.4 percent, capping
its first weekly gain in three weeks. The Purchasing Managers
Index rose to 51.4, the National Bureau of Statistics and China
Federation of Logistics and Purchasing said today. That compares
with 51.1 in September and the 51.2 median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey of analysts.  South Korea ’s Kospi index added 0.5 percent after a report
showed manufacturing expanded for the first time since May.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Taborek in New York at 
 ntaborek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  