-- Japan Tobacco Lifts Operating Profit View on Yen, Overseas Gains
-- B y   Y u k i   Y a m a g u c h i
-- 2013-10-31T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/japan-tobacco-raises-operating-profit-forecast-amid-weaker-yen.html
Japan Tobacco Inc. (2914) ,  Asia ’s largest
listed cigarette seller, boosted its operating profit forecast
for the fiscal year on benefits from a weaker yen, asset sales
and higher prices in some overseas markets.  Operating profit will probably be 632 billion yen ($6.4
billion) for the year ending March 2014, higher than its
previous 616 billion yen forecast, the company said in a stock-exchange statement yesterday. That compares with the average
estimate of 640 billion yen from 20 analysts compiled by
Bloomberg.  Japan Tobacco, the seller of the Mevius brand, is
benefiting as a weaker yen boosts the value of overseas revenue.
The yen has fallen about 12 percent against the dollar this year
as Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s economic measures called
Abenomics induced the depreciation of the currency.  “I think there is still room for upward revision,” on
foreign exchange, said Takashi Aoki, a Tokyo-based  fund manager 
at Mizuho Asset Management Co.  The company expects a gain of 66 billion yen in operating
profit this fiscal year from a weaker home currency.  Net income jumped 65 percent to 139 billion yen in the
second quarter to September as sales rose 12 percent to 611.2
billion yen.  Overseas tobacco business sales rose 22 percent to 596.2
billion yen in the first half of the year, on weaker yen and
price increases in some markets including Russia and U.K.
Domestic tobacco sales climbed 0.5 percent to 352.3 billion yen.  The company sold some real-estate assets during the period,
which was part of the reasons for raising its forecast for
annual operating profit, Executive Deputy President Hideki
Miyazaki said, without providing details.  The company will consider raising its worker’s
remuneration, he said.  Job Cuts  The Tokyo-based company this week said it is cutting 1,600
jobs, or about 18 percent of the company’s workforce, and
closing four factories in the country as part of its plan to
boost domestic competitiveness and profitability.  Japan  Tobacco said tobacco tax increases, tightening
regulations, growing health consciousness and an aging society
are turning into challenges for its domestic tobacco business.
The ratio of smokers in Japan fell 4 percentage points to 20.9
percent over the last four years, according to company’s
website.  The job cuts will be made through a voluntary retirement
program that will be offered to eligible employees in the
Japanese domestic tobacco business and corporate functions, it
has said.  Japan Tobacco shares closed unchanged at 3,550 yen before
the earnings announcement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuki Yamaguchi in Tokyo at 
 yyamaguchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  