-- Japan Salaries Extend Fall as Abe Urges Companies to Raise Wages
-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e   a n d   A n d y   S h a r p
-- 2013-10-31T01:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/japan-salaries-extend-fall-as-abe-urges-companies-to-raise-wages.html
Japan ’s salaries extended the
longest slide since 2010, even as Prime Minister Shinzo Abe
urges companies to raise workers’ wages as part of his bid to
reflate the world’s third-largest economy.  Regular wages excluding overtime and bonuses fell 0.3
percent in September from a year earlier, marking a 16th
straight month of decline, according to labor ministry data
released today. Total  cash earnings  rose 0.1 percent.  The data underline the difficulties Abe faces in getting
companies on board in his drive to end more than a decade of
deflation among nascent signs of price gains after the Bank of
Japan’s unprecedented easing. Trade unions are demanding higher
base pay, and the question now is whether firms will agree in
wage negotiations early next year.  “The key for the success of Abenomics is whether companies
will raise wages,”  Norio Miyagawa , a senior economist at Mizuho
Securities Research and Consulting Co. in  Tokyo , said before the
report. “Companies still aren’t confident enough that growth
will be sustained and will probably hesitate to raise wages,
especially base salaries, for the time being.”  Wages are falling behind price gains. National consumer
 prices  excluding fresh food rose 0.7 percent last month from a
year earlier,  a fourth straight increase.  Expansion Forecast  The nation’s economy is forecast to grow until April, when
a sales-tax increase is likely to cause a one-quarter
contraction. Domestic demand is boosting production, and a
 survey  of  purchasing managers  released today showed
manufacturers this month at their most confident in more than
three years.  Abe said in a speech this month at the start of a special
parliamentary session that he aimed to boost employment and
raise wages, creating a “virtuous circle” that spurs
consumption and investment. The government began holding
meetings with business and union leaders in September as part of
a campaign to persuade businesses to raise wages.  Kaoru Yosano, a former finance minister, said in an
interview this month that wage gains hinge on a pick-up in
demand, not just pleas by Abe for companies to do their part for
a recovery.  Trade union negotiations with management on salaries in
talks known as “shunto,” or the spring wage offensive --
around March next year -- will be key for pay increases.  Spring Offensive  The negotiations “will be one clear point at which there
is a chance to either show that something new is happening or
raise further doubts,” Jerry Schiff, the International Monetary
Fund’s mission chief for Japan, said in an interview this week
in Tokyo. “It’ll be important to get wages to begin to rise
soon.”  The Japanese Trade Union Confederation, or Rengo, plans to
 demand pay increases  of more than 1 percent in next spring’s
labor talks -- a move welcomed by Economy Minister Akira Amari.  Toyota Motor Corp. President  Akio Toyoda  said Oct. 17 that
Toyota workers need better benefits and wages, while  Hiromasa Yonekura , head of the Keidanren business lobby group, said the
same day that an improvement in corporate earnings will lead to
an increase in  capital spending  and wages.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Sharp in Tokyo at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  