-- Jobless Claims in U.S. Drop as California Clears Backlog
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2013-10-31T21:11:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/jobless-claims-in-u-s-drop-as-california-clears-backlog.html
The number of Americans filing
applications for  unemployment benefits  last week remained
elevated, indicating the partial federal shutdown this month
weakened the world’s largest economy.  Jobless claims  decreased by 10,000 to 340,000 in the week
ended Oct. 26 as a backlog in California’s reporting cleared,
the Labor Department said today in  Washington . The reading
compares with an  average  of about 330,000 a week in August,
before a change in computer systems in the country’s most
populous state started affecting the data.  “Looking through all the ups and downs, the job market has
lost momentum,” said  Ryan Sweet , a senior economist at Moody’s
Analytics Inc. in  West Chester ,  Pennsylvania , and the most
accurate claims forecaster over the past two years, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. “Policy uncertainty over the budget
means the economy will face an uphill battle over the next few
months.”  An increase in firings, combined with another report
showing  consumer confidence  is sinking in the aftermath of the
fiscal gridlock that forced some federal agencies to close,
threatens to slow household spending, which accounts for 70
percent of the economy. At the same time, a Chicago-area
business barometer this month jumped by the most in 30 years,
showing not all parts of the U.S. are bracing for the worst.  Stocks fell on speculation the  Federal Reserve  will cut
stimulus in coming months and investors assessed corporate
earnings. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 0.4 percent to
1,756.54 at the close in  New York . It reached a record close of
1,771.95 on Oct. 29.  European Economy  Globally, figures today showed a preliminary estimate of
euro-area inflation in October was the slowest in almost four
years and unemployment climbed to a record 12.2 percent the
prior month.  In the U.S., consumer confidence last week eroded for a
fifth straight time, reaching the lowest level in more than a
year as pessimism about the economy chipped away at views of
conditions closer to home. The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index
fell in the period ended Oct. 27 to minus 37.6, the weakest
reading since  October 2012 (COMFCOMF) , from minus 36.1.  While the end of the 16-day federal government shutdown
helped stabilize a measure of Americans’ outlook for the
economy, households grew more pessimistic about their finances
and the buying climate.  ‘Fiscal Follies’  “The combination of fiscal follies in the nation’s
capital, slower economic activity and a deceleration in hiring
clearly has impacted consumer confidence,” said  Joseph Brusuelas , a senior economist at Bloomberg LP in New York.
“While sentiment is likely to rebound in coming weeks, it may
not rise” to levels reached before the shutdown.  Another report today showed business activity in the
Midwest jumped this month, according to the MNI Chicago Report
business barometer. The index jumped to 65.9 in October, a more
than two-year high, from 55.7 a month earlier. Readings above 50
signal expansion. The 10-point jump was the biggest since 1983.  “It’s always difficult to extrapolate nationally from any
particular region, because they have their own idiosyncrasies,”
said  Millan Mulraine , director of U.S. rates research at TD
Securities USA LLC in New York. “Do I really believe that it
reflects the overall tone of manufacturing and economic
activity? I don’t think so.”  Regional Surveys  Other regional measures confirm there are pockets of
strength and weakness in manufacturing. The Federal Reserve Bank
of New York’s general economic index fell to a five-month low in
October, while activity gauged by the  Federal Reserve Bank of
Philadelphia  expanded more than projected last month.  Economists monitor the Chicago index and other regional
reports for an early reading on the national manufacturing
outlook. The Institute for Supply Management’s measure, due
tomorrow, is projected to be little changed at 55 from 56.2 in
September, according to  median forecast  of economists surveyed
by Bloomberg.  The number of jobless claims last week was in line with the
 median forecast  of 49 economists surveyed by Bloomberg which
projected a drop to 338,000. Estimates ranged from 320,000 to
370,000. The prior week’s claims were unrevised at 350,000.  California  has worked through its backlog and its data
today included no applications from prior weeks, a Labor
Department spokesman said as the figures were released to the
press.  State Breakdown  Forty-eight states and territories reported a decrease in
claims, while five reported an increase. These data are reported
with a one-week lag. No states estimated their data last week,
the Labor Department said.  Initial jobless claims reflect weekly firings and typically
wane before job growth can accelerate. The government shutdown
kept some 800,000 federal employees from working and delayed the
Labor Department’s October payrolls report by a week, to Nov. 8.  Payrolls increased by about 100,000 this month compared
with a 148,000 gain in September, according to a forecast by
Moody’s Sweet. The government shutdown cost the economy about
50,000 jobs, he projected. The median estimate of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg is 125,000.  Yesterday, the Fed said it needs more evidence of stronger
growth before it can dial down its record $85 billion in monthly
bond purchases, citing home sales in particular.  “The recovery in the housing sector slowed somewhat in
recent months,” the  Federal Open Market Committee  said at the
end of a two-day meeting in Washington. “Fiscal policy is
restraining economic growth.”  Fed Statement  The central bank left unchanged its statement that it
probably will hold its target interest rate near zero “at least
as long as” unemployment exceeds 6.5 percent.  While the economy continues to add jobs, the housing
slowdown is rippling through the labor market. Home lenders in
particular are feeling the effects of a decrease in refinancing.
 Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the second-largest U.S. lender, is
cutting jobs in its mortgage division. The financial services
company, based in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina , will dismiss about
3,000 people in the fourth quarter.  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the biggest U.S. mortgage lender, has
cut more than 5,700 positions since midyear, and No. 2-ranked
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  has said it may dismiss 15,000.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.netcwellisz @bloomberg.net 