-- Jos. A. Bank May Consider Raising Bid for Men’s Wearhouse
-- B y   L i n d s e y   R u p p
-- 2013-10-31T20:15:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/jos-a-bank-may-consider-raising-men-s-wearhouse-takeover-bid.html
Jos. A. Bank Clothiers Inc. said
it’s willing to consider raising its $2.3 billion takeover bid
for larger competitor Men’s Wearhouse Inc. after the offer was
rejected this month.  Jos. A. Bank Chairman Robert Wildrick said in a letter sent
to Men’s Wearhouse today that he would consider increasing the
offer if his company was given access to non-public information
so it could conduct limited due diligence. Jos. A. Bank said it
will terminate the buyout offer on Nov. 14 if Men’s Wearhouse
doesn’t engage in “good faith discussions.”  While Wildrick’s letter shows Jos. A. Bank still is working
to combine the two largest male-focused U.S. specialty
retailers, shares of both companies fell, signaling investors
are skeptical a deal will be completed. Jos. A. Bank  dropped  3.8
percent to $47.95 at the close in New York, while Men’s
Wearhouse slid 3.1 percent to $42.30.  “The market is saying Jos. A. Bank is going to withdraw
their offer and walk away,” Ivan Feinseth, chief investment
officer at Tigress Financial Partners LLC in New York, said in a
telephone interview. Feinseth has the equivalent of a hold
rating on Men’s Wearhouse.  Ken Dennard, a spokesman for Men’s Wearhouse who works for
Dennard-Lascar Associates LLC, didn’t respond to voicemail and
e-mail requests for comment about Wildrick’s remarks.  Bid Rejected  Jos. A. Bank, based in Hampstead,  Maryland , disclosed its
$48-a-share offer on Oct. 9, and Men’s Wearhouse rejected it the
same day, saying it undervalued the company and wasn’t in the
best interest of investors. Men’s Wearhouse also said that the
bid was opportunistic, coming shortly after the firing of
founder George Zimmer, known for his starring role in the
company’s commercials, as executive chairman over disagreements
with the board.  Men’s Wearhouse, based in Houston, adopted a shareholder
rights plan that lets investors buy its stock at a discounted
price when someone acquires 10 percent or more of the common
shares in a transaction not approved by the board.  Jos. A. Bank hasn’t had direct contact with Men’s
Wearhouse’s management, Wildrick said in an interview. Three or
four large shareholders of both companies have contacted him
today expressing desire to see the deal completed, he said,
without naming them.  “We can’t have an open-ended offer, but we definitely want
to get it done,” Wildrick said. “It makes industry sense.”  Other Options  Wildrick said in his letter that Jos. A. Bank would
consider “other strategic alternatives” if the offer is
allowed to expire. He declined to comment on what options the
company is considering.  Jos. A. Bank is trying to publicly force Men’s Wearhouse
directors to engage in talks as the acquisition attempt already
is unfriendly, Mark Montagna, an analyst for Avondale Partners
LLC in Nashville,  Tennessee , said in a phone interview.  “This really tells you the likelihood of this happening is
a lot less than it was before simply because Men’s Wearhouse has
not spoken to them, and they only have to hold out for two weeks
and not talk to them,” Montagna said in a phone interview. He
has the equivalent of a hold rating on shares of Jos. A. Bank.
“Ultimately, Men’s Wearhouse has to pick up the phone.”  Men’s Wearhouse may consider a bid for Allen Edmonds Corp.,
a closely held shoemaker, a person familiar with the matter said
earlier this month.  An acquisition of Allen Edmonds won’t deter Jos. A. Bank’s
pursuit of Men’s Wearhouse, said another person familiar with
Jos. A. Bank’s thinking, who asked not to be identified because
the matter is private. Jos. A. Bank considers Allen Edmonds a
good fit for itself and for Men’s Wearhouse, the person said.  Men’s Wearhouse Chief Executive Officer Doug Ewert said the
retailer is twice as big as Jos. A. Bank, which has “no growth
strategy,” Women’s Wear Daily reported, citing an interview
with Ewert last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsey Rupp in New York at 
 lrupp2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Orland at 
 korland@bloomberg.net  