-- Junk Food Tax Gets Extra Boost as Mexican Senate Passes Bill
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2013-10-31T14:13:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/junk-food-tax-gets-extra-boost-as-mexican-senate-passes-bill.html
Mexico’s Senate increased a proposed
levy on junk food today as it passed a tax bill that reduces the
nation’s dependence on oil revenue and promotes growth,
according to President Pena Nieto’s administration.  The Senate voted to impose an 8 percent tax on high-calorie
foods, such as  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP) ’s Cheetos, instead of the 5 percent
originally approved by the lower house. The move compensated for
the decision to trim income taxes for some earners that had also
been approved by lower house, which will have to vote again on
the bill.  Pena Nieto plans to lift growth, which slowed more than
the government expected this year, by reducing taxes on the oil
industry to attract more private investment. State-owned
 Petroleos Mexicanos  has been unable to reverse a drop in oil
output in each of the last eight years as it funds 34 percent of
the  federal budget . The nation is attempting to reduce adult
obesity, which at 32.8 percent is the highest among major
countries after  Egypt  and compares with 31.8 percent in the
U.S., according to the United Nations  Food and Agriculture
Organization , or FAO.  The tax bill “reduces the fiscal dependence on oil
revenues and reduces tax loopholes,”  Gabriel Casillas , chief
Mexico economist and head of research at Grupo Financiero
Banorte SAB, in an e-mailed response to questions before the
Senate vote. The reform is “strengthening Mexico’s public
finances.”  The Senate lowered the income tax for those who earn
between 500,000 pesos ($38,488) and 750,000 pesos per year to 30
percent from 31 percent approved by the lower house earlier this
month. The measure still raises the income tax ceiling to 35
percent from 30 percent for high earners and leaves untouched a
new tax on sugary drinks of 1 peso per liter passed by the
house.  The National Soft Drink Producers Association, which
includes  Coca-Cola Femsa SAB (KOFL)  and  Arca Continental SAB (AC*) , Latin
America’s biggest Coca-Cola bottlers, estimates that a 1 peso
per-liter soda tax would result in the loss of 20,000 jobs, from
workers who cut sugar cane to those in factories.  ‘Reformulating’ Products  Grupo Bimbo SAB, a maker and vendor of bakery products, is
reviewing the option of “reformulating” some of its products
to lower their caloric density, Chief Executive Officer Daniel Servitje said in an Oct. 24 conference call.  The Senate also left unchanged the house’s approval of a 10
percent tax on  capital gains , a 7.5 percent duty on mining
company profits and an increase in sales taxes in border regions
to 16 percent from 11 percent, bringing them in line with the
rest of the country.  The opposition Democratic Revolution Party, or PRD, said it
reached a last-minute agreement with the  Finance Ministry  to
change the bill in the Senate as today’s deadline loomed for
passage of the 2014 revenue portion of the nation’s budget.  Analysts forecast the economy will grow 1.2 percent this
year from 3.9 percent in 2012 after the government reduced
spending in the first half and exports to the U.S. stagnated,
according to an Oct. 22 survey by Citigroup Inc.’s Banamex unit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nacha Cattan in  Mexico  City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  