-- Kenyans Protest After Raped Teenager Thrown Into Latrine
-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 2013-10-31T14:05:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/kenyans-protest-after-raped-teenager-thown-into-latrine.html
Hundreds of protesters marched in
 Kenya ’s capital, Nairobi, to demand the police take action
against men who were ordered to mow lawns as punishment for
gang-raping a 16-year-old girl who was left paralyzed.  The demonstrators presented a  petition  that garnered more
than 1.3 million signatures to the Chief of Staff in the office
of the Police Inspector-General, William Thwere, asking that six
male suspects be investigated and prosecuted and measures be
taken against the police in the case. Some protesters hung
underwear and bras on the gate of the main police headquarters
while others were drumming and singing.  “Nobody has been brought to justice -- not the rapists,
and not the police,” according to a  petition  on the website of
campaign group Avaaz.org. “Today, we change that. Let’s stand
with Liz right now, before her attackers and the police
escape.”  One in every three women in Kenya will be a victims of
sexual- and gender-based violence in their lifetimes and many
cases go unreported, the Coalition on Violence Against Women
said in a statement handed to reporters. The U.S. is among
donors who are conducting police  training programs  to help
Kenyan officers more effectively investigate sex crimes.  The police will ensure justice is served, Thwere told the
protesters.  “We are going to make sure that her case is attended to
with the seriousness it deserves,” he said. If it’s found the
case was initially mismanaged “whoever is found culpable,
action will be taken in accordance with the law,” Thwere said.  Beaten Unconscious  The girl, known by the pseudonym Liz to protect her
identity, was attacked while walking home from her grandfather’s
funeral in Busia county in western Kenya in June and her
unconscious body was thrown into a 6-meter (20-foot) deep pit
latrine, according to the petition.  As a result of her injuries from the assault, Liz is now
confined to a wheelchair, the Nairobi-based Daily Nation
newspaper reported on Oct. 29.  “As the ministry responsible for gender, we wish to
emphasize our conviction and great resolve to end violence
against women, girls or indeed any person,” Anne Waiguru,
secretary of the Devolution Ministry that coordinates the
country’s new county-government system, said in an e-mailed
statement. “Violence cannot be tolerated, in any form, in any
context, in any circumstance either in private or public
sphere.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  