-- Kenya to Spend Up to $15 Billion Expanding Power Network
-- B y   D a v i d   M a l i n g h a   D o y a
-- 2013-10-31T10:22:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/kenya-to-spend-up-to-15-billion-expanding-power-network.html
Kenya plans to spend as much as $15
billion boosting electricity production fourfold over the next
40 months to help accelerate growth in  East Africa ’s biggest
economy, Energy Minister Davis Chirchir said.  The country plans to produce an additional 5,500 megawatts,
mostly from coal, gas and geothermal sources, by 2017, Chirchir
said in an interview yesterday in the capital, Nairobi. Added to
existing capacity of 1,700 megawatts, that would bring total
output to 7,200 megawatts, he said.  “We will need about $10 billion to $15 billion in
investment to reach that target,” Chirchir said. “We need that
power to support double-digit economic growth.”  Kenyan President Uhuru Kenyatta, who took office six months
ago, pledged to accelerate annual economic growth to more than
10 percent as part of plan to create more than 1 million jobs a
year. The country is preparing to sell its inaugural Eurobond to
raise as much as $2 billion by early next year to fund
infrastructure development.  Kenya is talking to suppliers of coal from  South Africa  and
 Zimbabwe  to fuel a 900-1,000 megawatt plant at Lamu on the
coast, for which they are in the process of procuring a
developer. The ministry is also talking to Qatari suppliers of
liquified natural gas for a 700-800 megawatt plant at Dongo
Kundu in Mombasa, according to Chirchir.  The government plans to use competitive bidding tenders to
award contracts for power generation to private companies,
Chirchir said. “The criteria for selection will mainly be the
tariff at which the companies propose to sell us the power they
generate,” he said.  Kenyatta said in September the country plans to become more
reliant on coal-fired, geothermal and natural-gas generation to
lower costs by as much as six-fold. Of the total 5,500 megawatts
that will be added, only 24 megawatts will be sourced from
hydropower, according to the Energy Ministry.  The state wants to reduce the industrial cost of power to
$0.09 per kilowatt hour from the current $0.15, Chirchir said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Malingha Doya in Nairobi at 
 dmalingha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  