-- Korean Air Stock Slumps on Hanjin Shipping Funds Concern
-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 2013-10-31T09:12:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/korean-air-stock-slumps-on-hanjin-shipping-funds-concern.html
Korean Air Lines Co. (003490)  dropped the
most in two years in  Seoul  trading on concerns the company may
provide further funding to its affiliate Hanjin Shipping Co.  South Korea ’s biggest carrier fell 11 percent, the most
since September 2011, to close at 34,050 won in Seoul. The stock
is the worst performer on MSCI Asia Pacific Index today. Hanjin
Shipping declined 0.8 percent to 7,750 won, after earlier
surging as much as 4 percent. The benchmark Kospi Index fell 1.4
percent.  Korean Air said yesterday it will provide 150 billion won
($142 million) to Hanjin Shipping to help ease the company’s
“temporary” liquidity shortage. Excess shipping capacity and a
slump in freight rates have caused companies including Hyundai
Merchant Marine Co. and STX Pan Ocean Co. to lose money in the
first half of the year. The announcement came after  Korean Air 
last week posted a  loss  in the first nine months due to weak
 travel demand  on its Japan services.  “While it’s not a lot of money, the  airline industry  isn’t
doing all that well,” Um Kyung A, an analyst at Shinyoung
Securities Co. in Seoul, said by phone. “Korean Air also has a
lot of debt coming due next year.”  Korean Air is the biggest  shareholder  of Hanjin Shipping
Holdings Co., the holding company that owns the largest stake in
Hanjin Shipping Co. Both are members of Hanjin Group.  Hanjin Shipping is considering raising 300 billion won
through share sale and loans, Korea Economic Daily reported,
citing a company official it didn’t identify. The company is
considering a share sale and loans, said Sonya Cho,  Hanjin
Shipping (117930)  spokeswoman. Details haven’t been finalized, she said.  Korean Air Loss  Korean Air could consider providing additional funds to
Hanjin Shipping, if it’s needed after talks with creditors, the
airline said today in an e-mailed response to Bloomberg.  The company has about 745.1 billion won in bonds and loans
maturing next year, compared with 47.7 billion won in 2013,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Hanjin Shipping may post a loss in the third quarter,
typically the best period for shipping companies, Daishin
Securities Co. said in a Sept. 30 report. The company is
expected to announce its earnings as early as next week.  Korean Air lost 328.7 billion won in the January-September
period, compared with net income of 105 billion won a year
earlier. The airline last week finalized an order to buy 12
aircraft from Boeing Co. at a list price of $3.72 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  