-- Kumu Networks Raises $15M in Round Led by Third Point
-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 2013-10-31T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/kumu-networks-raises-15m-in-round-led-by-third-point.html
Kumu Networks Inc. , a provider of
technology that boosts the capacity of wireless networks, said
it has raised $15 million in a funding round led by  Third Point
Ventures .  The financing from the venture arm of  Daniel Loeb ’s Third
Point LLC also includes previous investors  New Enterprise
Associates  and Khosla Ventures. It brings the Santa Clara,
California-based startup’s total funding to $25 million. The
company declined to disclose its valuation.  Kumu, which was founded in 2012 and has 18 employees, came
out of Chief Executive Officer  Sachin Katti ’s research at
 Stanford University . The company has filed 19 patent
applications for a technology that can improve the capacity of
wireless networks, ranging from cellular to Wi-Fi.  Katti said in an interview that the money will be used for
product development and field trials, with tests with three
carriers -- including one in the U.S. -- beginning in 2014. Kumu
is also working with wireless industry organizations to
incorporate the technology into standards for next-generation
wireless networks, he said.  “Our goal is building the same kind of company as
Qualcomm,” said Katti. Chipmaker  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM)  licenses its
technology to handset makers and wireless equipment providers.
Kumu expects to start booking revenues in late 2015, Katti said.  “In all likelihood, it’ll some day make it into next-generation wireless technology” because it can as much as
double a network’s capacity, Ken Rehbehn, an analyst at
researcher  Yankee Group , said in an interview.  “Wireless bandwidth is becoming more and more precious,”
Forest Baskett, a general partner at NEA, said in an interview.
“The size of the market is gigantic.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  