-- Kynikos Alumni Start Hedge Fund Betting on Declining Stocks
-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 2013-10-31T02:21:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/kynikos-alumni-start-hedge-fund-betting-on-declining-stocks.html
Two former analysts of  Jim Chanos ’s
Kynikos Associates Ltd., which rose to fame shorting Enron
Corp., started a new London-based hedge fund earlier this month
to bet on falling stocks globally.  The Arhammar Short Alpha Fund Ltd., which started on Oct.
10 and is backed by the second-largest Baltic bank  SEB AB (SEBA) , will
invest in 30 to 50 stocks which are expected to underperform the
market, co-managers Mike Monnelly and David Bonnier said,
declining to specify the amount of capital the fund has raised.  Arhammar is seeking to meet demand from family offices and
funds of funds for assets with a different return profile than
traditional stocks, property and fixed-income securities to help
preserve capital and protect their other investments, Bonnier
said in a telephone interview from  London  on Oct. 29.  “Today there’s a lot of frustration that there are not
many places to invest your money because either equity is
expensive, or real estate is expensive, or fixed income is
expensive,” he said. “The number of dedicated short-biased
funds has diminished considerably in the last 10 to 15 years.”  Shorting involves selling borrowed shares and making a
profit buying them back when prices decline.  Enron Bet  Monnelly and Bonnier worked as London-based analysts for
Kynikos providing research and generating ideas for stock shorts
for the New York-based company that now oversees about $6
billion of assets.  Kynikos bet on the decline of Enron shares before the
energy trader filed for bankruptcy in 2001. It has placed
similar wagers on Chinese banks and  Brazil ’s Vale SA, the
world’s largest iron-ore producer, on an expected slowdown of
 China ’s credit-driven growth, according to founder Chanos.  Monnelly, 39, went on to help oversee short stock
investments at GMO LLC, the Boston-based manager of $108 billion
assets, between 2009 and early May this year, he said. He
focused on markets influenced by  China  as a hedge against a hard
landing in the world’s second-largest economy.  Bonnier, 36, left Kynikos in November after about six
years.  The Eurekahedge Hedge Fund Index returned 4.3 percent
through September, trailing the MSCI World Index’s 15 percent in
the period. The hedge-fund gauge has outperformed the MSCI World
Index in 2011 and 2008, when markets wobbled amid the  European
debt crisis  and the global financial crisis.  Excessive Credit  Arhammar will restrict its shorts to stocks listed in
developed markets in  North America  and  Europe  as well as  Japan ,
Hong Kong, Australia and  Singapore , said Monnelly. The fund buys
a basket of stocks, for example, the MSCI World Index, to
protect against market risks, Monnelly added.  It will pick stocks to short using bottom-up analysis that
focuses on individual companies along four themes at all time:
boom-that-goes-bust, consumer fads, aggressive accounting and
structurally challenged businesses, Bonnier said.  Examples of the boom-that-goes-bust theme include companies
related to the subprime crisis of 2008 and the current China
construction bubble, said Bonnier.  “One common feature that underlies the boom-that-goes-bust
theme is excessive credit growth,” said Monnelly. “Excessive
credit growth and new forms of financial intermediation is one
reason why we have concerns about the Chinese credit system and
the associated high level of construction.”  China’s biggest banks tripled the amount of bad loans
written off in the first half, cleaning up their books before
what could be a fresh wave of defaults, according to filings.  Consumer Fads  The consumer fads theme targets “consumer-friendly”
companies that have generated little or no profits and are in a
late stage of stock rallies, Bonnier said. An example is Green
Mountain Coffee Roasters Inc., which has drawn short bets from
 David Einhorn ’s Greenlight Capital Inc. and  Whitney Tilson ’s
Kase Capital on accounting practices and increasing competition.  Newspapers and traditional music labels fall into the
category of structurally challenged businesses, or companies
with obsolescent technologies, said Bonnier. With less volatile
share prices, their inclusion in the fund would help reduce the
overall fluctuation of its performance, Monnelly said.  In aggressive accounting, Arhammar looks for companies that
try to manipulate underlying earnings, for example, through
practices such as questionable use of mark-to-market accounting,
they said.  The two named their hedge fund after Bonnier’s Swedish
holiday rendezvous.  “It’s really very much off the beaten path,” Bonnier
said. “And that’s very much in line with our strategy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in  Hong Kong  at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  