-- Record U.S. Loan Brings N.Y. Tappan Zee Borrowing to $4 Billion
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2013-10-31T19:34:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/n-y-gets-1-6-billion-u-s-loan-for-tappan-zee-cuomo-says-1-.html
New York received a $1.6 billion
loan from the federal government and will sell $2.4 billion in
bonds to build a replacement for the Tappan Zee Bridge over the
 Hudson River , one of the biggest public-works projects in the
U.S., Governor  Andrew Cuomo  said.  The loan, the most ever issued through the federal
transportation-infrastructure program, may help keep tolls on
the bridge from almost tripling when it opens in four years,
according to Cuomo. The new $3.9 billion span is the largest
project in the 63-year history of the New York State Thruway
Authority, which had its  credit rating  cut this week.  “Because it’s a big project, we needed a big loan,” Cuomo
said on public radio today when he made the announcement. “I’m
going to celebrate the Tappan Zee loan and Halloween together. A
lot of chocolate in the Cuomo house tonight.”  The 55-year-old Democrat has made building the span a
priority, comparing it in scope to the 19th century construction
of the Erie Canal.  New York  officials have been discussing
replacing the 57-year-old bridge for 20 years, which Cuomo has
cited as an example of dysfunction in Albany, the capital. It
took Cuomo about a year to execute a contract, and construction
started this month.  “It was an all-hands-on-deck effort,” Cuomo said today.
“It showed government can work.”  Past Prime  The bridge, a 3-mile (5-kilometer) span that connects
Rockland and Westchester counties about 20 miles north of
 Manhattan , was designed to last 50 years. It opened in December
1955 and carries 138,000 vehicles each day, 40 percent more than
intended.  The biggest question had been how the state would fund the
new Tappan Zee, which is being built under a design-build
contract by a group led by Irving, Texas-based  Fluor Corp. (FLR)  The
authority has already borrowed $700 million privately to cover
initial construction costs.  The federal Transportation Infrastructure Finance and
Innovation Act loan will pay off that debt, according to Tom Madison, the agency’s executive director. The  interest rate  on
the 35-year Tifia loan is tied to U.S. Treasury notes and will
be set when the state closes on the deal, probably the first
week of December, Madison said on a call with reporters today.  Rating Cut  This week, the authority’s credit was rating was cut one
step to A by  Standard & Poor’s . The rating company said
replacing the Tappan Zee may overload the agency with debt. The
authority already has $3.7 billion outstanding and must also
maintain its 570-mile toll road, the longest in the U.S.  S&P said the agency will probably have to increase tolls
across the system to maintain the debt-coverage ratio required
by bond covenants, which budget documents show may be breached
by 2016 even without the cost of the new span.  The authority hasn’t ruled out the possibility of raising
rates throughout the Thruway to help maintain its debt ratio,
Madison said. In December, the agency scrapped a plan to raise
tolls on trucks by 45 percent, replacing the more than $80
million the increase would have generated with state funds
pushed through the legislature by Cuomo.  Last year, Cuomo said cash tolls on the Tappan Zee may
almost triple to $14 when the new bridge opens in 2017. He said
today that he still isn’t sure how high tolls will go and is
waiting to hear recommendations from a tolling commission he
appointed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Freeman Klopott in  Albany  at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Schoifet at 
 mschoifet@bloomberg.net  