-- National Bank of Abu Dhabi Plans Eight Banking Hubs for Growth
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2013-10-31T14:12:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/national-bank-of-abu-dhabi-plans-eight-banking-hubs-for-growth.html
National Bank of Abu Dhabi PJSC , the
United Arab Emirates’ biggest bank by assets, plans to set up
eight global hubs and build five “international bank
franchises” as part of its overseas expansion strategy.  The state-controlled lender will focus on  Abu Dhabi ,
Mumbai, Lagos, Singapore,  Hong Kong , London, Paris and
Washington DC to serve clients in five key industries, Chief
Executive Officer Alex Thursby said at a news conference in Abu
Dhabi today. NBAD plans to tap trade and investment flows across
the  Middle East , Africa and Asia, said Thursby, who joined in
July from  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)   The bank also plans to build “more than a one-branch
presence” in five countries which will typically be those with
large populations, have fast-growing economies and a rapidly
expanding middle class, Thursby said. The lender is seeking to
set up between 10 and 20 branches in these countries, with  Egypt 
being the first and Malaysia likely the second, he said.  NBAD  reported  Oct. 29 an 8 percent drop in third-quarter
profit to 1.04 billion dirhams ($282 million), missing analyst
estimates, as one-time gains weren’t repeated. The bank’s
lending will grow 10 to 15 percent this year and it has a 15
percent medium-term return on equity target, Thursby said.  The lender said yesterday it plans to focus on financial
institutions, energy and resources, transport, real estate and
family conglomerates as well as trade and retailers, as part of
its new expansion strategy. The bank will stop offering trade
finance services outside these five, he said.  It will also put on hold an application to open a branch in
 South Sudan  and plans to upgrade its representative office in
Lebanon to a branch, Thursby said. It’s in the process of
applying for a license in Singapore, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net ;
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  