-- Nationals Make Matt Williams MLB’s First Mitchell Report Manager
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-10-31T18:39:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/nationals-make-matt-williams-mlb-s-first-mitchell-report-manager.html
Matt Williams was hired by the
 Washington Nationals  to succeed  Davey Johnson , making the five-time All-Star third baseman the first Major League Baseball
manager directly linked to the sport’s steroid era.  Williams, 47, spent the past four seasons on  Kirk Gibson ’s
coaching staff in Arizona, including the past three as third-base coach. Johnson retired at age 70 after 2 1/2 years leading
the Nationals.  “I feel privileged and honored to be a part of this
team,” Williams said in a statement. “It’s a wonderful group
of guys and a great organization. I’m simply here to help take
us to the next level.”  Williams played in the majors for 17 seasons and hit 359 of
his 378 career home runs as a third baseman, the third-most in
MLB history at the position behind Mike Schmidt and  Chipper Jones . In addition to his All-Star selections, he won four Gold
Glove awards for his defense, captured a World Series title with
Arizona and finished second in voting for the National League’s
Most Valuable Player award in 1994, when he hit 43 homers.  Williams, who retired as a player in 2003, was among more
than 80 players identified as having connections to performance-enhancing drugs in the 2007 report produced by former U.S.
Senator  George Mitchell . The San Francisco Chronicle  reported  in
2007 that Williams five years earlier had bought $11,600 worth
of human growth hormone, steroids and other drugs from an anti-aging clinic in Florida. Williams told the newspaper at the time
that a doctor advised him to try HGH as he sought to recover
from an preseason ankle injury.  Playoff Miss  Williams takes over a team that missed the postseason with
a 86-76 record, 10 games behind the  Atlanta Braves  in the NL
East. Washington, with young players such as pitcher  Stephen Strasburg  and outfielder Bryce Harper, had a 98-64 record in
2012 and made the playoffs for the first time since moving from
Montreal in 2005.  “Matt has a wealth of knowledge and experience as a former
player and coach,” Nationals owner Ted Lerner said. “But what
most impresses us is his ability to understand and ably
communicate situations and strategies in a disciplined,
forthright manner. We think he is the right leader for a
Washington Nationals team ready to compete for a World Series
championship.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  