-- Netflix Swings Top Nasdaq 100 as Value Divides Icahns
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s   a n d   A u b r e y   P r i n g l e
-- 2013-10-31T20:52:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/netflix-swings-top-nasdaq-100-as-value-divides-icahns.html
Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  Chief Executive Officer
 Reed Hastings  warned in July that it takes “a strong stomach”
to invest in the world’s largest video-subscription company. He
wasn’t kidding.  The stock has posted the widest swings of any member of
Nasdaq 100 Index in the past 30 days, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg, evidence of a tussle over whether the video-streaming pioneer can turn its U.S. dominance of paid Internet
TV into a worldwide phenomenon.  A more than tripling of the stock this year has left
Netflix trading at 186 times profit, fueling debate and exposing
differences that have even split families. Billionaire Carl Icahn, the largest individual holder, sold more than half his
stake this month while son Brett, a  fund manager  at  Icahn
Enterprises , argued the stock is undervalued. The shares
whipsawed after quarterly profit rose fourfold -- soaring after
hours on Oct. 21, and slumping as much as 19 percent from there
the next day.  “It’s hard not to like some of the things they’ve done,
from massive subscriber growth, rising viewing hours,
international growth and margin expansion,” said  Tuna Amobi , an
analyst with  Standard & Poor’s  in  New York . “The question
everyone struggles with is how long can they sustain this kind
of astronomical growth?”  Netflix reached an all-time  intraday  high of $389.16 on
Oct. 22, after third-quarter profit rose to 52 cents a share
from 13 cents and subscriber growth beat estimates. Amobi, like
77-year-old Carl Icahn, used the milestone to reassess his view
of the stock and cut his  rating  to sell from neutral that day.  Two Views  The shares have since retreated 17 percent, trimming the
gain for the year to 248 percent. Netflix rose 1.4 percent to
$322.48 at the close today in New York.  At this level, Netflix is more expensive based on measured
by trailing 12-month earnings than all but four stocks in the
 S&P 500 .  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , the online retailer, has the highest
P/E at 1,300 times earnings.  Netflix’s 20-day  historical  volatility, measuring the
magnitude of price swings, more than doubled to 69.2 on Oct. 31
from Aug. 19. It at the highest levels since May and almost five
times that of the Nasdaq 100 equity benchmark. It’s the most
volatile over 30 days, and the second-most volatile over 200
days, just behind  Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA) , according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  The swings reflect the tug of war among investors and
analysts. Supporters point to prospects for raising prices,
little direct competition and signs the company’s international
business may break even sooner than expected. Detractors cite a
rising budget for films and TV shows, international losses and a
current price that defies reason.  Channeling Funds  “We are choosing a strategy which has us put essentially
all of our domestic profit into international expansion,”
Hastings said on a July earnings call. “It definitely takes a
strong stomach on the part of investors.”  Analysts’ price  targets  range from a high of $460 at
JPMorgan Chase & Co. to a low of $122 at Albert Fried & Co. Of
38 analysts who follow Netflix, 8 suggest selling the stock,
while 24 say hold and six recommend buying.  Laura Martin , a Needham & Co. analyst in  Los Angeles , is
among the bulls. Her sum-of-the-parts valuation produced a price
target of $425. She said Netflix’s international business will
break even sooner that she previously estimated, and that profit
margins will continue to fatten.  Netflix will be a prime beneficiary as worldwide broadband
penetration increases 30 percent to 90 percent annually through
2017, Martin wrote on Oct. 22.  Converting Doubters  The company’s continuing strong performance turned  Tony Wible , an analyst with Janney Montgomery Scott in Philadelphia,
from a longtime doubter into a believer. Wible, who argued for
five years until January that the online movie service is too
costly and risky, now has the second-highest price target at
$450.  In the third quarter, Netflix passed Time Warner Inc.’s  HBO 
in paid U.S. subscribers, reaching 31.1 million, and is poised
to gain 6 million more worldwide annually, Wible said. That
should be enough to fund its growth and make it harder with each
passing quarter for competitors to keep up, he said.  “There’s significant and increasing cost pressure to being
in this business and to the extent that you can keep rivals at
bay, you get the ability to raise prices in the future,” Wible
said. “Netflix is a longer-term bet on that.”  The difficulty in valuing Netflix stems in part from the
fact that there is no other independent pure-play company
available for comparison.  “Netflix is a very unique story, and I’ve seen analysts’
views all over the place,” Amobi said. “At the end of the day,
any one of us can be wrong.”  New Methods  Richard Tullo, an Albert Fried analyst in New York who’s
had the equivalent of a sell rating on Netflix for the past
year, predicts the stock will fall 62 percent in the next year.  “If I were  Carl Icahn , I would battle with my son to sell
the stock, too,” Tullo said in an interview. “Frankly, if we
valued Netflix the way we value the rest of our universe we’d
have to value it somewhere between $35 and $60.”  Tullo came to his $122 target by averaging an $80 price
based on 2017 earnings estimates, a sum-of-the-parts valuation
of Netflix’s domestic streaming, international streaming and DVD
businesses, and a third component using Hulu LLC’s implied
valuation on a per-subscriber basis.  Netflix’s international business had a nine-month loss of
$217.1 million, the  company  said on Oct. 21, while the U.S.
streaming business earned $449.1 million and the DVD-by-mail
operation produced a profit of $328.9 million.  Pricing Perfection  Investors focus too much on the buzz generated by Netflix
investments in original programming and not enough on the
fundamentals of the business, according to  Michael Pachter , an
analyst with Wedbush Securities Inc. in Los Angeles. The company
will be hurt by rising program costs as film and TV studios
demand ever more in contract renewals, he said.  “If you talk to HBO, they’d say 80 percent of the focus is
on watching movies and 20 percent is original series,” said
Pachter, who rates the stock underperform, the equivalent of a
sell. “Even if Netflix does get it right every time with
originals, what happens then?”  Hastings has weighed in on the volatility, too. In the
company’s third-quarter letter to investors, he compared the
recent rise with “euphoria” of momentum investors in 2003,
when Netflix was the highest-performing Nasdaq-listed stock.  Netflix has no further comment, said Jonathan Friedland, a
spokesman.  Friendly Wager  Hastings and most analysts agree on one thing: Success or
failure will depend on getting and keeping subscribers. The
shares have risen this year in part because two European cable
operators agreed to add the application to their set-top boxes,
while Netflix is in talks with at least five U.S. cable
providers to do the same.  The Icahns settled their differences with what amounts to a
side bet, made public in a regulatory filing last week. Brett
Icahn, 34, and his fellow fund manager David Schechter rewrote
their contracts so that the performance fee they receive from
Carl Icahn will reflect gains or losses in the 2.99 million
Netflix shares sold at his direction.  “We believe Netflix is one of the great consumer bargains
of our time,” they said in a statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net ;
Aubrey Pringle in New York at 
 apringle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  