-- NYC Police Stop-and-Frisk Ruling Delayed as Judge Removed
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-11-01T21:37:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/new-york-police-stop-and-frisk-ruling-stayed-by-court.html
A federal appeals court delayed
enforcement of a U.S. judge’s ruling that the New York Police
Department’s use of stop-and-frisk tactics is unconstitutional
and removed her from the case, saying she appeared biased.  The U.S. Court of Appeals in New York stayed enforcement of
remedies directed by U.S. District Judge Shira Scheindlin in
 Manhattan , who ordered the appointment of an independent monitor
to oversee changes. The appeals court took the extraordinary
step of removing Scheindlin from the case.  “We conclude that the district judge ran afoul of the Code
of Conduct for United States Judges,” the three-judge panel
said in yesterday’s ruling. “The appearance of impartiality
surrounding this litigation was compromised.”  The court cited Schiendlin’s comments in at least three
media interviews while her decision was pending, as well as her
statements to attorneys in a case involving the NYPD’s tactics
that was brought by some of the same lawyers involved in the
stop-and-frisk case.  “If you’ve got proof of inappropriate racial profiling in
a good constitutional case, why don’t you bring a lawsuit? You
can certainly mark it as related,” Scheindlin told lawyers
during a December 2007 court hearing.  Related Case  “What I’m trying to say, I am sure I am going to get in
trouble for saying it, for $65 you can bring that lawsuit,” she
told the lawyers. “As I said before, I would accept it as a
related case, which the plaintiff has the power to designate.”  The lawyers later filed the suit, which Scheindlin accepted
as related. The appeals panel said its decision shouldn’t be
construed as a comment on the merits of the case.  By marking the stop-and-frisk lawsuit as related to the
earlier case, Scheindlin was able to steer the new case about
NYPD practices to her docket, the appeals court said.  During a court hearing on Oct. 28, Circuit Court Judge Jose Cabranes asked lawyers if they thought Scheindlin had steered
the stop-and-frisk case to be assigned to her. Scheindlin’s
comments cited by the panel in yesterday’s ruling included
interviews with the New Yorker magazine and the  Associated
Press . She was quoted by the AP in May saying the city engaged
in a “below-the-belt” attack on her reputation.  Judge’s Response  In a statement yesterday, Scheindlin said she had sided
with the city in a key issue involving the earlier police stop-and-frisk case and said she didn’t steer the new NYPD case to
her docket.  She also said she didn’t give statements to the press
before issuing her ruling.  “All of the interviews identified by the Second Circuit
were conducted under the express condition that I would not
comment on the Floyd case,” Scheindlin said. “And I did not.
Some of the reporters used quotes from written opinions in Floyd
that gave the appearance that I had commented on the case.
However, a careful reading of each interview will reveal that no
such comments were made.”  Scheindlin’s ruling in the case followed a nine-week
nonjury trial that ended May 20.  In that case, four black men sued the city alleging they
had been stopped and questioned or frisked by police without
reasonable suspicion in violation of their constitutional
rights. Police have made more than 4 million such stops in the
past nine years, the men alleged. At least 80 percent of the
people stopped were black or Latino, according to court papers.  ‘Fundamentally Inconsistent’  Scheindlin ruled in August that the stop-and-frisk practice
as carried out by the city’s police “is fundamentally
inconsistent with the law of equal protection and represents a
particularly disconcerting manifestation of indifference.”  Each stop was a “demeaning and humiliating experience,”
the judge said.  The Center for Constitutional Rights, which represented the
plaintiffs, said in an e-mailed statement that it was dismayed
by the decision of the appellate judges.  “We are shocked that they cast aspersions on the
professional conduct of one of the most respected members of the
federal judiciary and reassigned the case,” the group said.  Donna Lieberman, head of the  New York  Civil Liberties
Union, which joined in the challenge to the NYPD tactics in the
suit, said the group will appeal.  No Overturn  “It’s important to note what the panel did yesterday did
not overturn the judge’s ruling,” Lieberman said in a phone
interview.  “We’re confident that the next city administration will
take steps to fundamentally overhaul the way stop and frisk is
utilized by the NYPD,” she said.  Michael Cardozo, the city’s corporation counsel, said in a
statement that the ruling will receive a “fresh and independent
look” by the appeals court and, if needed, a different trial
court judge. Cardozo called Scheindlin’s ruling “unjustified
and deeply problematic.”  U.S. District Court Judge Analisa Torres in Manhattan was
assigned randomly to preside over the case after the appeals
court completes its review of the city’s challenge to
Scheindlin’s rulings, according to court records. Torres, who
was confirmed for the federal bench in April, served as an
acting New York State Supreme Court justice from 2004 to 2011
and as a Civil Court judge for  New York City  from 2003 to 2004.  Declined Case  The case first reassigned yesterday afternoon to U.S.
District Court Judge  John Koeltl , who without explanation
declined to take it, according to court records.  As a state judge presiding over criminal cases, Torres also
criticized police tactics in New York City Housing Authority
developments.  Torres said in a December 2010 ruling that NYPD officers
appeared to be routinely and systematically violating the law by
stopping and questioning people without legal justification
outside public housing projects. As a result, Torres barred the
admission of 29 bags of cocaine that police seized from a man in
the lobby of a public housing unit on Manhattan’s Lower East
Side.  Stop-and-frisk searches have been a focal point of the
campaign to succeed Mayor  Michael Bloomberg . Bloomberg is the
founder and majority owner of Bloomberg LP, the parent of
 Bloomberg News .  de Blasio, Lhota  Democrat Bill de Blasio, the city’s public advocate who is
leading in polls in the mayor’s race, said in statement that he
was “extremely disappointed” with yesterday’s ruling.  “We shouldn’t have to wait for reforms that both keep our
communities safe and obey the Constitution,” de Blasio said.
“We have to end the overuse of stop and frisk -- and any delay
only means a continued and unnecessary rift between our police
and the people they protect.”  Joe Lhota, the Republican nominee, said the ruling was an
“unprecedented rejection of both the result of the case and the
manner with which it was achieved.”  He said Scheindlin’s “biased conduct corrupted the case
and her decision was not based on the facts.”  Scheindlin, who has been on the federal bench since 1994,
was reversed by the appeals court after she dismissed perjury
charges in 2002 against a Jordanian student who knew two of the
hijackers involved in the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks and
was accused of lying about one of them.  Scheindlin ruled that the government’s use of the Material
Witness Statute to hold the man for questioning during a grand
jury investigation was unconstitutional. The appeals court in
2003 reversed and reinstated the charges.  The appeal cases are Ligon v. City of New York, 13-3442,
and Floyd v. City of New York, 13-3461,  U.S. Court of Appeals 
for the Second Circuit (Manhattan). The lower-court cases are
Floyd v. City of New York, 08-cv-01034; Ligon v. City of New
York 12-cv-02274, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in federal Court in Manhattan at  pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  