-- New York Times Sales Rise as Readership Makes Up for Ad Drop
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2013-10-31T20:13:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/new-york-times-results-surpass-estimates-as-print-ads-improve.html
New York Times Co. (NYT) , the newspaper
publisher controlled by the Ochs-Sulzberger family, reported a
lower-than-projected third-quarter loss after print advertising
improved, even as online ad sales slumped.  The Times’ advertising business slid 2 percent from a year
earlier to $138 million, slowing from the second quarter’s 4.7
percent decline. Even so, online ads fell twice as fast as those
in the physical newspaper. The loss, excluding one-time items,
was 1 cent a share, compared with the 3-cents-a-share loss
 analysts forecast , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The publisher now relies more on readers than advertisers
for its revenue, and Chief Executive Officer Mark Thompson is
working to meet new demand by creating tiered packages of
content at different prices. That includes a possible lower-priced plan. Third-quarter circulation sales gained 4.8 percent
to $204 million, helped by a 28 percent increase in digital
subscribers to 727,000.  Thompson is also revamping an  ad sales department  that has
contended with executive turnover and cost reductions, making it
more difficult to compete. He picked a new head sales executive,
Meredith Kopit Levien, in July to help lead the company back to
advertising growth.  The company’s shares rose less than 1 percent to $13.83 at
the close in New York. The stock has surged 62 percent this
year, compared with a 23 percent gain in the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index.  Fourth-Quarter Forecast  The dependence on online-reader growth will continue in the
fourth quarter, the Times said. Circulation sales will increase
by a low-single-digit percentage from a year earlier, while
advertising revenue will have a decrease in the low single
digits.  While online readers rose, digital advertising dropped 3.4
percent to $32.8 million, “due to ongoing secular trends and an
increasingly complex and fragmented digital advertising
marketplace,” the Times said. Print ads fell only 1.6 percent.  Total revenue gained 1.8 percent to $361.7 million. Digital
circulation revenue gained 29 percent to $37.7 million. This is
the first time the publisher has shown circulation revenue by
media.  The company this month reinstated its dividend payments to
investors, who will receive 4 cents a share, costing the company
about $24 million on an annual basis should the publisher
continue payments every quarter. The Ochs-Sulzberger family
stands to make as much as $3.1 million each year, far smaller
than the $20 million it got as recently as 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  