-- Nigeria Says Revenue Gap May Reach as Much as $12 Billion
-- B y   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 2013-11-01T13:30:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/nigeria-finance-ministry-says-revenue-gap-may-reach-12-billion.html
Revenue earned by Nigeria this year
may be as much as $12 billion short of budget estimates as theft
of crude and output disruptions persist in the oil-rich Niger
River delta, Finance Minister Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala said.  The government will draw down its oil savings in the Excess
Crude Account to compensate for the drop in revenue to keep the
 budget deficit  under control, Okonjo-Iweala said in an interview
yesterday in Abuja, the capital.  With a 2013 budget based on a daily output of 2.53 million
barrels and an oil price of $79 a barrel,  Africa ’s biggest oil
producer expected revenue of almost $80 billion from exports. In
the first half of the year, oil receipts amounted to $28.2
billion, more than $7 billion below the estimate, according to
central bank figures.  “What is amazing now is that we’ve had this quantity of
shock and we were able to weather it,” Okonjo-Iweala said.
“You can say theft, but it’s still a quantity shock.”  Nigeria, Africa’s most populous country of more than 160
million people, depends on crude exports for about 80 percent of
government revenue and 95 percent of export income. Criminal
gangs tapping oil from pipelines for illegal sale have posed the
biggest threat to output since a government amnesty in 2009
reduced armed attacks led by rebels fighting for greater control
of the region’s resources.  Crude Account  The revenue shortfall due to output disruptions will
probably be between $6 billion and $12 billion, said Bright
Okogu, director of the Budget Office, who sat in on the
interview with the finance minister.  The government saves the balance of oil revenue above the
budgeted price in the Excess Crude Account, which had a balance
of just under $5 billion, down from about $9 billion at the
beginning of the year, according to the minister.  Nigeria ’s vulnerability to shocks is heightened because of
lower government revenue from oil, putting pressure on the
currency, central bank Governor Lamido Sanusi said in an
interview in Oslo today.  “The great challenge now is that the fiscal buffers are
not as strong as they would be because of the revenue
shortfall,” Sanusi said. “If there are any adverse external
developments that would feed into this weak revenue profile and
put pressure on exchange rates.”  ‘Speculative Attack’  The central bank draws down its foreign-currency reserves
to sell dollars at twice-weekly auctions to keep the naira
within a band of 3 percent around 155 per dollar. The naira
gained 0.2 percent to 158.73 against the dollar on the  interbank
market  as of 2:09 p.m. in Lagos, the commercial capital.  “This increases the pressure on the external balance which
means the external reserves and  exchange rate  will be under
pressure,”  Bismarck Rewane , chief executive officer at
Financial Derivatives Co., said by phone from Lagos today.
“Once the external balance is under pressure, there is an
underlying threat that will manifest in speculative attack
against the currency.”  Okonjo-Iweala is seeking to meet a budget deficit target of
1.9 percent of gross domestic product this year. The shortfall
reached 2.5 percent in the second quarter during the peak of the
output outages, according to data from the central bank.
President Goodluck Jonathan is due to present his 2014 budget to
lawmakers on Nov. 12.  State Disputes  “When there’s a breakage the impact is that the pipes are
shut down, the effect is that 400,000 barrels are shut down,”
Okonjo-Iweala said. “The actual theft is like 70 to 80,000
barrels a day.”  The average price of Nigeria’s light, sweet crude has
stayed above $100 a barrel this year. The official selling price
of Nigeria’s benchmark Qua Iboe crude for November loading was
set at $3.50 a barrel more than dated Brent, the European
benchmark, according to state-run Nigerian National Petroleum
Corp. Dated Brent was priced at $108.92 a barrel at 9:18 a.m. in
 London .  Income earned by Nigeria from crude exports, taxes and
other sources are shared among the three tiers of government,
including the federal, 36 state governments and 774 local
councils. At allocation meetings in August and September, funds
received were not enough to meet expected allocations, prompting
complaints from some state officials.  The disputes over allocations “are over,” Okonjo-Iweala
said. “Everybody realizes that we have to allocate what comes
into the coffers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dulue Mbachu at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net  