-- Nine Said to Seek About A$675 Million in IPO With Owners
-- B y   B r e t t   F o l e y
-- 2013-10-31T05:29:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/nine-said-to-plan-raising-about-a-675-million-in-ipo-with-owners.html
Nine Entertainment Co. and its
owners may raise about A$675 million ($641 million) in
 Australia ’s largest initial public offering in almost three
years, said two people with knowledge of the matter.  Owners including  Oaktree Capital Group LLC (OAK)  will sell about
A$400 million in existing shares while the company will issue
roughly A$275 million in new stock to fund debt repayments, the
people said, asking not to be named as the information is
private. Oaktree will sell almost half of its 26 percent stake
while  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO)  plans to initially keep its
holding of about 28 percent, the people said.  The IPO will value Australia’s second-largest broadcaster
at about A$2.6 billion including debt, or 8.5 times its forecast
full-year earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization of A$305 million, a person familiar with the matter
said Oct. 28. The shares will be marketed at A$2.05 to A$2.30
each and start trading in early December, the person said.  Apollo, Oaktree and other funds took control of Nine last
year in a debt-for-equity swap that saw previous owner CVC
Capital Partners Ltd. lose the majority of its investment. Nine,
which also owns a ticketing business and the country’s largest
indoor music venue, in the past two months bought an affiliate
station in Western Australia state and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s 50
percent stake in the Mi9 joint venture.  CVC Agreement  Under the restructuring plan agreed last October, about 60
percent of a A$5.75 billion debt and equity investment by CVC
was wiped out. Senior lenders including Apollo and Oaktree
received A$573 million in cash and a 95.5 percent stake in Nine,
according to Federal Court documents in December. London-based
CVC had bought the broadcaster from billionaire James Packer’s
Publishing & Broadcasting Ltd.  Spokesmen for Oaktree and Apollo declined to comment.  UBS
AG (UBSN) ,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and Macquarie Group Ltd. are among banks
leading the share sale.  Los Angeles-based Oaktree, the world’s biggest investor in
distressed debt, in September took control of Australia’s
 Billabong International Ltd. (BBG)  together with Centerbridge Partners
LP after the funds won approval for a plan to refinance the
surfwear maker’s debt.  Apollo, the private-equity firm run by  Leon Black , is on
track to raise $15 billion for a new buyout fund, the largest
since Blackstone Group LP raised $21.7 billion in 2007, people
with knowledge of the matter said Oct. 7.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brett Foley in Melbourne at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  