-- Nordic Nations Intensify Work on Common Bank Rules
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n   a n d   M i k a e l   H o l t e r
-- 2013-10-31T18:48:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/nordic-nations-to-intensify-work-to-create-common-bank-rulebook.html
(Corrects  Norway  risk weights in sixth paragraph.)  All the Nordic countries want to
intensify work to create common rules for Nordic and European
banks, Swedish Financial Markets Minister Peter Norman said.  “We have four very big banks in Sweden, of which each and
every one is system critical” and “we have DNB in Norway and
Danske Bank in Denmark,” Norman said at a press conference in
Oslo today, following talks between Nordic governments. “These
operate across national borders so there’s big interest in
finding common solutions and my interpretation of today’s
meeting is that we agree on intensifying the work.”  The Nordic countries have introduced harsher rules for
their banks to try to protect taxpayers and their economies from
future financial industry losses in the wake of the global
financial crisis. Still, the new regulation differs between
countries, with Sweden having imposed higher  capital
requirements  than some neighbors while Norway has raised risk-weights on mortgages to a higher level than Sweden.  Stockholm-based Nordea Bank AB,  Svenska Handelsbanken AB (SHBA) ,
 Swedbank AB (SWEDA)  and SEB AB are required to have core Tier 1 ratios
of at least 12 percent of their risk-weighted assets by 2015 and
all already exceed that target. In Norway, banks must hold 12
percent of core capital by 2016. The  European Central Bank  is
setting an 8 percent capital requirement for the region’s
biggest banks, including a common equity Tier 1 ratio of 4.5
percent and a 2.5 percent capital conservation buffer.  Shares of Nordea, the Nordic region’s largest lender, fell
1.1 percent to 83 kronor in Stockholm trading.  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE) 
rose 2.1 percent in Copenhagen trading and  DNB ASA (DNB)  declined 1.2
percent in Oslo.  Tripled Risks  Sweden this year tripled the capital banks must set aside
to guard against losses on their mortgage assets to 15 percent,
from levels as low as 5 percent, Norway has proposed raising the
loss-given-default floor on mortgage loans to 20 percent from 10
percent, equaling a risk-weight of about 20 percent or higher,
according to Finance Ministry calculations.  Stockholm-based Nordea is the second-biggest bank in both
Norway and Denmark and one of the top 2 banks in Finland.
Sweden’s SEB, Swedbank and Handelsbanken also have operations in
neighboring Nordic countries while Oslo-based DNB is also active
in Sweden. Danske Bank is the fifth-largest lender in Sweden and
one of the biggest banks in  Finland .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Stockholm at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net ;
Mikael Holter in Oslo at 
 mholter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  