-- Norman Pearlstine Rejoins Time Inc. as Chief Content Officer
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2013-10-31T15:52:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/norman-pearlstine-rejoins-time-inc-as-chief-content-officer.html
Norman Pearlstine , who served as
Bloomberg LP’s chief content officer for the past five years, is
leaving to rejoin  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s magazine division, ahead of
a planned spinoff of the business next year.  Pearlstine, 71, will become executive vice president and
chief content officer of the magazine publisher, the New York-based company said in a statement. He previously spent a decade
at the division, known as Time Inc., before leaving in 2005. At
Bloomberg, he spearheaded the company’s effort to revamp
Businessweek magazine after it acquired the title from McGraw-Hill Cos. in 2009.  Time Warner decided to split off Time Inc. -- its worst-performing  division  -- after a failed attempt to merge the unit
with Meredith Corp., publisher of women’s magazines such as
Ladies’ Home Journal. The spinoff is slated for the early part
of next year.  “I am confident Norm -- together with our business leaders
and editorial teams -- will develop exciting new content and
brand experiences for our audiences that will reinvigorate the
franchise and fuel future revenue growth,” Time Inc. Chief
Executive Officer Joe Ripp said in a statement.  Pearlstine also previously served as executive editor of
the Wall Street Journal. As chief content officer at Bloomberg,
he helped to expand the company’s consumer media division, which
included its cable TV network and its magazines.  “Norm has been an invaluable adviser to me and our entire
leadership team, helping us successfully relaunch Bloomberg
Businessweek and start new lines of business that continue to
grow,” Bloomberg CEO  Dan Doctoroff  said in an e-mailed
statement. “His impact will last for years to come. We thank
him and wish him well.”  Time Inc. also said Martha Nelson will be leaving the
company after being appointed as its editor-in-chief 10 months
ago. She had been with the company for 20 years. The editor-in-chief job, which Pearlstine held during his earlier tenure at
the company, is being eliminated.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in  New York  at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  