-- North Koreans Tell of Deprivation as Kim Touts Prosperity
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2013-10-31T14:57:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/north-koreans-tell-of-deprivation-as-kim-touts-prosperity.html
North Korean defectors gave graphic
testimony about deprivation and violence, in contrast to the
image of socialist prosperity promoted by dictator Kim Jong Un
at recent banquets celebrating a new ski resort and water parks.  Jo Jin Hye, 26, cried yesterday as she told  United Nations 
human rights investigators in  Washington  about her father’s
death en route to a gulag, a sister abducted while searching for
food and forced into sex slavery in  China  and a newborn brother
who died for lack of milk.  Jo’s testimony opened two days of public hearings in
Washington before a UN  Human Rights Council  panel conducting the
world body’s first investigation into human rights in North
Korea. Academics and analysts will testify today on the
country’s network of political prisons and lingering food
shortages. The panel has already collected more than 200
testimonials, some at previous hearings in Seoul,  London  and
 Tokyo .  North Koreans aren’t permitted to freely travel outside the
country, and are cut off from  South Korea  by one of the world’s
most heavily guarded borders after the  Korean War  sealed the
division of the countries. Still, more than 24,000 have managed
to defect to South Korea,  Asia ’s fourth-largest economy, the
South’s Unification Ministry estimates. Defections have slowed
since Kim took over almost two years ago.  A total of 1,509 North Koreans defected to Seoul in 2012,
down from 2,706 a year earlier, according to Marzuki Darusman,
the UN special rapporteur on human rights in  North Korea . Only
1,041 escaped in the the first nine months of this year, he
said.  Tightened Border  “This represents a reversal of the trend of steady
increase in the number of annual arrivals since 1998, possibly
due to recently tightened border control” or the return of
defectors to the North, Darusman told the General Assembly’s
Human Rights committee on Oct. 29.  North Korea has ignored the UN panel’s request to visit the
country, accusing the investigators of relying on “faked
materials” that were “fabricated and invented by the forces
hostile” to the North, Michael Kirby, chairman of the three-member investigative panel, told the same committee on Oct. 29.  “Nobody in their right mind chooses to publicly shame
themselves with lies about being sexually trafficked, tortured
and reduced to nothing,” said Jo, who successfully sought
asylum in the U.S. in 2008 after four failed attempts to escape
the North.  Mass Famine  Since becoming leader in December 2011 after the death of
his father,  Kim Jong Il , Kim Jong Un has ordered construction of
leisure facilities such as amusement parks and  horse riding
clubs , to reinforce the impression of socialist prosperity. He
has also defied the UN by testing long-range missiles and a
nuclear device, scuttling a February 2012 deal with the U.S.
that would have provided food aid.  North Korea should end its “belligerent” military-first
policy that “uses food as an instrument of political and
economic pressure” on a populace at “risk of mass famine,”
Darusman told the the UN General Assembly’s Human Rights
Committee earlier this week.  The UN’s investigative panel will submit its final report
to the Geneva-based Human Rights Council next March, with
conclusions on the North’s network of gulags, access to food and
the distribution of international humanitarian aid. It will also
investigate the regime’s role in a 1990s famine dubbed the
“Arduous March” that killed hundreds of thousands of people.  “The international community will be obliged to face its
responsibilities and decide what concrete action it will take”
to protect the North Korean people, Kirby told the General
Assembly on Oct. 29.  The UN  Security Council  would have to approve any request
to refer the panel’s report for action by the  International
Criminal Court . Russia and China, which have veto power in the
15-member Security Council, have consistently opposed UN Human
Rights Council resolutions on North Korea.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in United Nations at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  