-- Norway Sovereign Wealth Fund Says Water Risks May Affect Returns
-- B y   L o u i s e   D o w n i n g
-- 2013-10-31T13:00:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/norway-sovereign-wealth-fund-says-water-risks-may-affect-returns.html
Norway’s $808 billion sovereign
wealth fund, the world’s largest, said today that long-term
returns may be impacted should the companies it invests in fail
to adequately manage and mitigate water-related risks.  Norges Bank Investment Management is exposed to water-related risks through investments in about 7,500 companies, it
said today. It has investments in water-intensive industries
including food and beverages as well as oil, gas and chemicals,
NBIM said in a  statement . These all rely on water in their
operations and supply chain.  The institution supports the Carbon Disclosure Project’s
Water Programme that today published a report on water-related
risk management to help investors learn how to identify and curb
water challenges. Almost two-thirds of the businesses said
water-related issues will impact them within five years.  Each company in the sample faces an average of seven water-related risks, with 70 percent stating that water presents
substantive challenges to their business. Half have already
experienced detrimental business impacts in the past five years.  The report found that water poses “substantial risk” to
companies and threatens profits, CDP said in a statement on its
website. It said instead of focusing just on water use,
companies need to curb water risk across their value chain.  “While the framework for water stewardship is being
solidified and many companies remain at the beginning of the
journey, some are moving from managing water risk within their
direct operations to evaluating and, in some cases, mitigating
water risk across their value chain,” Will Sarni, director and
practice leader, enterprise water strategy for Deloitte
Consulting LLP, said in the statement.  “For those companies mitigating water risk across their
value chain, engaging in collective action programs and taking
responsibility for externalities such as access to clean water,
sanitation and hygiene, leadership is within reach, if not
already achieved.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Louise Downing in London at 
 ldowning4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  