-- Novo Quarterly Net Misses Estimates on Slowed Victoza Growth
-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 2013-10-31T07:33:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/novo-quarterly-net-misses-estimates-on-slowed-victoza-growth-1-.html
Novo Nordisk A/S (NOVOB) , the world’s
biggest insulin maker, reported third-quarter profit that missed
analysts’ estimates on slower-than-expected growth of its
Victoza diabetes treatment.  Third-quarter net income climbed 13 percent to 6.42 billion
kroner ($1.18 billion) from 5.67 billion kroner a year earlier,
the Bagsvaerd, Denmark-based company said in a statement today.
That lagged behind the 6.55 billion-kroner average  estimate  of
16 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Novo said today it expects
“high” single-digit percentage growth in sales and operating
profit next year in local currencies.  “The combination of new diabetes products, the FDA safety
review and the changing U.S. health-care dynamics brings the
slowing Victoza growth into the limelight,” Johan Unnerus, an
analyst at  Swedbank AB (SWEDA)  in  Stockholm , wrote in an Oct. 25 note.  Revenue from Victoza, which mimics a hormone called GLP-1
and stimulates natural insulin production, climbed 14 percent to
2.85 billion kroner, missing the average analyst estimate of
3.03 billion kroner. Sales of its so-called modern insulins,
including Levemir, climbed 5.8 percent to 9.39 billion kroner.  Novo recently lost a contract to provide insulin and
Victoza to  Express Scripts Holding Co. (ESRX) , the largest U.S.
processor of prescription drug claims. Studies also have linked
Victoza and similar medicines to a higher risk of pancreatitis
and pancreatic cancer. The U.S.  Food and Drug Administration 
said in March it was reviewing unpublished findings by a group
of researchers suggesting pre-cancerous cellular changes may be
associated with Type 2 diabetes treatments known as incretin
mimetics, including Victoza.  Sustain Growth  Until now, Victoza has helped Novo sustain growth following
the rejection of its new insulin Tresiba in the U.S. earlier
this year. The FDA demanded a new study to assess the heart risk
of the product. Novo originally aimed for approval of the
treatment in the world’s biggest drug market as early as 2012.
It’s now targeting a U.S. introduction by 2016 or 2017. Novo
said today it has started enrolling patients for the study, and
expects data from an interim analysis of the trial to be
available within two to three years.  The medicine, approved in the European Union, is already
sold in  Denmark , the U.K., Switzerland,  Sweden ,  Mexico , Japan
and  India . Novo needs Tresiba to help it challenge  Sanofi (SAN) ’s top-selling Lantus insulin, which last year amassed 4.96 billion
euros ($6.8 billion) in sales.  In August, Novo raised its sales and profit forecasts on
higher revenue from Victoza and left the guidance unchanged
today. Novo estimates full-year sales growth in local currencies
of 11 percent to 13 percent.  Novo shares have  returned  8.5 percent including reinvested
dividends over the past year through yesterday, compared with a
26 percent return for the Bloomberg Europe Pharmaceutical Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Geneva at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino in Paris at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  