-- Novo Nordisk Sees Lower Growth in Sales, Earnings Next Year
-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 2013-10-31T06:52:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/novo-nordisk-sees-lower-growth-in-sales-earnings-next-year.html
Novo Nordisk A/S (NOVOB) , the world’s
biggest insulin maker, reported a 13 percent increase in third-quarter profit on and said it expects “high” single-digit
sales and operating profit growth next year on rising revenue
from its Victoza diabetes treatment.  Third-quarter net income climbed to 6.42 billion kroner
($1.18 billion) from 5.67 billion kroner a year earlier, the
Bagsvaerd, Denmark-based company said in a statement today. That
missed the 6.55 billion kroner average  estimate  of 16 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  “Sales growth continues to be driven by our portfolio of
modern insulins and Victoza,” Chief Executive Officer Lars Rebien Soerensen, said in today’s statement.  Revenue from Victoza, which mimics a hormone called GLP-1
and stimulates natural insulin production, jumped 14 percent to
2.85 billion kroner in the quarter, missing the average analyst
estimate of 3.03 billion kroner. Sales of its so-called modern
insulins, including Levemir, climbed 5.8 percent to 9.39 billion
kroner.  Victoza has been helping Novo sustain growth following the
rejection of Tresiba in the U.S. earlier this year. The  Food and
Drug Administration  demanded a new study to assess the heart
risk of the new insulin. Novo originally aimed for approval for
the treatment the world’s biggest drug market as early as 2012.
It’s now targeting a U.S. introduction by 2016 or 2017.  The medicine, approved in the European Union, is already
sold in  Denmark , the U.K., Switzerland,  Sweden ,  Mexico ,  Japan 
and  India . Novo needs Tresiba to help it challenge  Sanofi (SAN) ’s top-selling Lantus insulin, which last year amassed 4.96 billion
euros ($6.83 billion) in sales.  In August, the Danish company raised its 2013 sales and
profit forecasts on higher revenue from Victoza and left the
guidance unchanged today. Novo estimates full-year sales growth
excluding currency shifts of 11 percent to 13 percent.  Novo shares have  returned  8.5 percent including reinvested
dividends over the past year, compared with a 26 percent return
for the Bloomberg Europe Pharmaceutical Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Geneva at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino in Paris at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  