-- Novo’s U.S. Victoza Sales Are Rebounding, CFO Says
-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 2013-10-31T11:34:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/novo-s-u-s-victoza-sales-are-rebounding-cfo-says.html
Novo Nordisk A/S (NOVOB) , the world’s
biggest insulin maker, is seeing a rebound in sales of its
Victoza diabetes treatment in the U.S. after a few months of
flat growth, Chief Financial Officer Jesper Brandgaard said.  Victoza sales in the U.S., the biggest market for drugs,
are “beginning to have some momentum again” Brandgaard said in
a telephone interview today. There’s been a pickup “in the last
three to four weeks in terms of prescriptions,” he said.  Novo, based in the Copenhagen suburb of Bagsvaerd, earlier
today reported a 13 percent increase in third-quarter profit,
missing analysts’ estimates because of slower-than-expected
expansion for Victoza, the company’s biggest growth engine. The
shares fell as much as 4.5 percent, their steepest intraday drop
since March 18, and were down 3.9 percent to 948.5 kroner as of
11:33 a.m. in the Danish capital.  Revenue from Victoza, which mimics a hormone called GLP-1
and stimulates natural insulin production, climbed 14 percent to
2.85 billion kroner ($523 million) in the third quarter, Novo
said today. That’s less than the average analyst estimate of
3.03 billion kroner.  “Victoza is slowing down,” Alistair Campbell, an analyst
at Berenberg Bank in  London  who has a hold recommendation on
Novo shares, said in a telephone interview. “It’s one of their
key growth products. The whole GLP-1 market has been a bit
concerning of late.”  Unpublished Findings  The U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  said in March it was
reviewing unpublished findings by a group of researchers
suggesting pre-cancerous cellular changes may be associated with
Type 2 diabetes treatments known as incretin mimetics, including
Victoza. Studies have linked Victoza and similar medicines to a
higher risk of pancreatitis and pancreatic cancer. Novo also
recently lost a contract to provide insulin and Victoza to
 Express Scripts Holding Co. (ESRX) , the largest U.S. processor of
prescription drug claims.  To help sustain Victoza sales, the Danish company has begun
a consumer marketing campaign in the U.S., Brandgaard said
during the interview. Physicians also were reassured after a
European Medicines Agency committee and a National Institutes of
Health workshop earlier this year didn’t find enough evidence to
support scientists’ concerns about GLP-1s, he said.  Worries Subsiding  “The worry of the general practitioner in terms of
elevated risk of pancreatitis or pancreatic cancer attached to
the whole incretin class is beginning to subside,” he said.
“These are the two factors I would ascribe to rebounding growth
occurring into the fourth quarter,” Brandgaard said, referring
to Victoza sales in the U.S.  Victoza has helped Novo sustain growth following the
rejection of its new insulin Tresiba in the U.S. earlier this
year. The FDA demanded a new study to assess the heart risk of
the product. Novo originally aimed for approval of the treatment
as early as 2012. It’s now targeting a U.S. introduction by 2016
or 2017. Novo said today it has started enrolling patients for
the study, and expects data from an interim analysis of the
trial to be available within two to three years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Geneva at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino in Paris at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  