-- NYC Walker Tower Sets Downtown Record at $55 Million
-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 2013-10-31T19:16:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/nyc-walker-tower-sets-downtown-record-at-55-million.html
The top-floor penthouse at
 Manhattan ’s Walker Tower found a buyer that agreed to pay close
to its $55 million price tag, setting a record for the most
expensive residential purchase south of 34th Street.  The 24th-floor condominium, on 18th Street in Manhattan’s
Chelsea neighborhood, went under contract this week at “a hair
under” its asking price, according to Michael Stern, managing
partner of JDS Development Group, the building’s co-developer.
It was  listed  for sale on Sept. 25, according to real estate
website Streeteasy.com.  Upon completion, the deal would become the most expensive
ever downtown, topping a record set in August with the $42
million purchase of a penthouse at Zeckendorf Development Co.’s
18 Gramercy Park. The 5,955-square-foot (553-square-meter) full-floor unit in the Walker Tower has five bedrooms, five
bathrooms, three fireplaces and “360-degree unobstructed”
views, according to the property listing by Vickey Barron, a
broker with Douglas Elliman Real Estate.  “We’re really excited and we’re really proud,” Stern, who
developed the site with Property Markets Group, said today in an
interview. “It’s yet another vindication by the market of the
incredible quality of this building.”  The penthouse sale comes amid a spate of record-setting
luxury deals in Manhattan that have emboldened owners to set
asking prices ever higher. The city’s biggest completed
transaction is the $88 million sale last year of a penthouse at
15 Central Park West by former Citigroup Inc. Chairman Sanford Weill. Since then, contracts have been signed at more than $90
million each for apartments at Extell Development Co.’s One57
and at  Harry Macklowe  and CIM Group’s 432 Park Ave., which are
under construction in Midtown.  Ritz-Carlton  The Walker Tower contract was reported earlier today on the
website of the New York Times.  Until last week, the $55 million penthouse had the highest
asking price for a Manhattan apartment below 34th Street. On
Oct. 25, the owner of a 7,500-square-foot penthouse atop the
Ritz-Carlton in Battery Park City listed that unit for $56.5
million.  Sales at Walker Tower began in June 2012. A full-floor
penthouse on the 23rd story will be put on the market next week
for $45 million, Stern said. The asking price is $1 million more
than the developers sought in plans filed last year with  New
York  State Attorney General Eric Schneiderman’s office.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in New York at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  