-- Obama to Maliki: You Broke Iraq, Now Fix It
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-10-31T15:17:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/obama-to-maliki-no-more-weapons-for-you.html
Time is rolling backward in Iraq.
The stability achieved in 2007 after the surge of U.S. forces is
gone. With bloodshed spreading throughout the country, claiming
7,000 lives so far this year, Iraq appears to be heading once
again toward all-out civil war.  Given this violence, and the enormous investment the U.S.
has made in Iraq’s future, President  Barack Obama  has to be
forceful with Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki when they
 meet at the White House  tomorrow: More weapons, as Maliki has
asked for, will not help end the slaughter. The imperative is
for Maliki, a Shiite, to share power with Iraq’s Sunni minority.  Regardless of who is responsible for Iraq’s current
predicament -- and Maliki bears most of the blame -- at this
point, only Iraq’s prime minister can fix it. To understand why,
it’s necessary to go back to the relative calm of 2007, when
Sunni leaders, hoping to secure a better political deal with
Maliki’s Shiite-dominated government, helped U.S. troops put
down the Sunni insurgency. Maliki has not repaid the favor.  The past year of violence was set off by the arrest on
terrorism charges of 10 bodyguards of Finance Minister Rafih al-Issawi, a Sunni. Just months before, another Sunni figure, Vice
President Tariq al-Hashimi, was sentenced to death in absentia
for two murders. To Sunnis, such cases reinforce their belief
that Maliki will never meaningfully share power with Iraq’s
ethnic minorities.  Mass demonstrations erupted, with protesters demanding an
end to sanctions against individuals associated with the former
Baathist regime, the release of unjustly detained Sunnis and the
reform of Iraq’s Anti-Terrorism Law, which has been exploited to
target Sunnis.  The law  mandates the death penalty not only for
those who commit terrorism but also for “all those who enable”
such crimes; it defines terrorism so broadly that it could
include a peaceful sit-in on a public square.  Against U.S. advice, Iraqi security forces stormed a
peaceful Sunni protest camp in the town of Hawijah in April,
killing 44 people. That excess invited the return of a worse
extreme: bomb attacks by Sunni militants on government sites,
Shiite gathering places and Sunnis cooperating with the
government. Among the participants is a revitalized al-Qaeda in
Iraq, which announced that it had merged with related elements
in  Syria  to form al-Qaeda in Iraq and the Levant.  Syria’s civil war exacerbates the situation, as the
sectarian violence there inflames sectarian passions in Iraq.
Officially, Iraq is neutral, but it has allowed  Iran  to fly over
its airspace to supply the Syrian regime, which -- like Iraq --
is fighting Sunni insurgents.  In a suspiciously timed  op-ed article  this week in the  New
York  Times, Maliki pledged to challenge the Iranians if provided
sufficient firepower to do so. The U.S. has already agreed to
sell the Iraqis an air-defense system, but they also want Apache
attack helicopters and accelerated delivery of 36 F-16 fighter
planes they have already bought. Maliki wrote that he needs
these aircraft to fight “terrorists.” The danger is that the
Iraqi government would use them, as has the government in Syria,
to hunt its own people from the air.  Maliki needs to understand that he cannot end the mayhem
with weapons alone. He knows U.S. forces won’t rush into Iraq
again. He may be tempted to reconstitute the vigilante Shiite
militias that were responsible for so much killing before 2007,
but he has to know that would be a step into the abyss.  Calming the sectarian strife of  Iraq  will require the
collaboration of Sunni leaders. That can only be secured if they
have the expectation of gaining a greater share of political
power and better treatment of their community. Delivering this
message may be the most helpful contribution President Obama can
make to President Maliki tomorrow.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 