-- Obama Makes Attracting Foreign Investment Target of U.S. Effort
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2013-10-31T18:24:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/obama-makes-attracting-foreign-investment-target-of-u-s-effort.html
President  Barack Obama  is seeking to
counter competition for investment from emerging economies by
putting the federal government at the center of a coordinated
campaign to bring new capital to the U.S.  At a Commerce Department investment summit in Washington
today, Obama outlined what the White House is calling an “all
hands on deck effort” to attract  investments  and jobs from
foreign companies, a job traditionally carried out by governors
and mayors.  “I want to make sure we can doing everything we can” to
encourage companies “to set up shop” in the U.S., Obama said
at the first SelectUSA investment summit, kicking off a
government-wide initiative to showcase the benefits of investing
in the  U.S. economy .  The initiative is intended to help build a stronger and
sustained rate of growth that would help reduce the 7.2 percent
 unemployment  rate. The U.S. economy has grown at a 2.2 percent
annualized pace on average since the current expansion began in
June 2009, compared with about 3 percent in the five years
leading up to the recession, according to Commerce Department
figures.  The two-day SelectUSA summit attracted about 1,200
participants, including about 630 foreign companies, from almost
60 countries as well as economic development officials from the
states, the White House said in a statement.  The U.S. is the world’s most popular destination for
capital, attracting a record $321 billion in foreign investments
in 2000.  Economic Competition  The danger for the U.S. is that emerging economies such as
China and  Brazil  are gaining ground. While the U.S. lured $166
billion in foreign investments in 2012, that’s down 28 percent
from the previous year. Investments sank to $150 billion in
2009, reflecting the global recession chilling global capital
flows, according to the Commerce Department.  “We’re not getting as big a piece of the pie,” said Nancy McLernon, president and chief executive of the Organization for
International Investment, a Washington-based group representing
major foreign investors in the U.S.  In the 1990s, the U.S. captured about 37 percent of all
foreign direct investment compared with about 17 percent in the
most recent decade, she said.  McLernon cited reasons including faster growth in emerging
nations, uncertainty about the U.S. economy and its  tax policy ,
and a “not very robust trade agenda” until recently. She also
cited “all of the political theatrics” in Washington.  “It’s sucking all the oxygen out of the room to focus on
big macro issues that could actually help our economy,” she
said in a telephone interview.  In 2012, net U.S. assets of foreign affiliates totaled $3.9
trillion, Commerce Department figures show.  New Priority  Under the SelectUSA program, foreign investment will become
a priority of the State and Commerce Departments, alongside
export promotion.  Investment teams led by U.S. ambassadors will make
investment overtures in 32 priority markets, and there will be
single points of contacts for businesses seeking to invest in
the U.S, the White House said in a statement.  Commerce Secretary  Penny Pritzker  has said the U.S. is
attractive for foreign investment because of abundant, low-cost
energy, an increase of 9 percent in productivity since the
recession, intellectual property protections and first-rate
universities.  A pickup in foreign investment in the U.S. can boost stock
prices and raise employment in the manufacturing sector, a
cornerstone of economic recovery.  Among the top foreign investors in the U.S. are the U.K.,
 Switzerland , Luxembourg,  Japan ,  Netherlands ,  Canada ,  Germany ,
 France , Belgium and  Australia , according to the Commerce
Department.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Komarow at   skomarow1@bloomberg.net  