-- Obama Says Health Law Critics ‘Grossly Misleading’
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2013-10-31T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/obama-says-health-law-critics-grossly-misleading-.html
President  Barack Obama  defended his
health-care law, saying the flawed online insurance exchange
will get fixed and accusing critics of “grossly misleading”
the public about how the program works.  Speaking at a rally in  Boston  yesterday, Obama said the 
experience of Massachusetts with the start of its health-care 
system in 2006 shows that the federal version, passed in 2010, 
will succeed. He addressed two criticisms from Republicans: that 
while he promised that people who liked their insurance could 
keep it, not all can, and that some people’s insurance will get 
more expensive.  “A fraction” of higher income Americans will pay more for
insurance plans that are better than they had, Obama said. Those
people being thrown off plans that don’t meet the law’s
standards will be getting better insurance, he said.  “If you leave that stuff out, you’re being grossly
misleading, to say the least,” Obama said at historic Faneuil
Hall. “It’s no surprise that some of the same folks trying to
scare people now are the same folks who’ve been trying to sink
the Affordable Care Act from the beginning.”  Obama spoke hours after his Health and Human Services
secretary,  Kathleen Sebelius , apologized at a House hearing in
Washington for the “debacle” of the failed opening of the
online insurance exchange that is a central part of the Patient
Protection and Affordable Care Act.  Romney’s Law  The hall where he delivered his remarks is where then-Governor  Mitt Romney , a Republican who challenged Obama in the
2012 presidential campaign, signed the Massachusetts health-care
overhaul into law. Obama said Romney was joined that day by
members of both parties, including now-deceased Senator  Edward Kennedy , a Massachusetts Democrat who championed universal
health care.  Obama said a major part of the state law’s success was from
the bipartisan support it received. They “joined forces to
connect the progressive vision of health care for all with some
ideas about markets and competition that had long been
championed by conservatives,” Obama said. “It worked.”  The flawed debut of the federal exchange, where uninsured
Americans can shop for coverage, and the prospect of millions of
people being thrown off existing plans have tarnished Obama’s
signature first-term legislative achievement and threaten to
overwhelm his second-term agenda.  Obama’s Polling  Obama’s job-approval ratings hit an all-time low in a Wall
Street Journal/NBC News  poll  released yesterday that illustrated
the political damage from the troubled rollout of the health-care law.  Forty-two percent of Americans surveyed gave Obama a
favorable rating, with 51 percent expressing disapproval,
according to the poll. That’s down from a favorable rating of 47
percent earlier this month and 53 percent at the end of last
year, according to the poll.  The survey of 800 adults was conducted between Oct. 25-28
and has an error margin of plus or minus 3.5 percentage points.  While acknowledging the rocky start for the law, Obama
argued that  Massachusetts  also endured setbacks that that
resulted in predictions that companies would drop coverage and
that the cost of care would shoot up.  “All the parade of horribles, the worst predictions about
health care reform in Massachusetts never came true,” he said.
“They’re the same arguments that you’re hearing now.”  Romney Responds  Romney, who promised in 2012 to roll back the law known as
Obamacare, said yesterday that the Democratic president didn’t
learn the right lessons from Massachusetts.  “Health reform is best crafted by states with bipartisan
support and input from its employers, as we did, without raising
taxes, and by carefully phasing it in to avoid the type of
disruptions we are seeing nationally,” he said in a statement
posted yesterday on his Facebook page.  The Affordable Care Act received no Republican support when
it passed and  House Republicans  have voted more than 40 times to
repeal the measure since then. Some Republican governors have
balked at installing its elements, including federally
subsidized Medicaid expansions to help the poor obtain care and
setting up state insurance exchanges.  The federal exchange serves 36 states that don’t have their
own. Since opening Oct. 1 at the start of a six-month open
enrollment period,  the website  has been plagued by delays, error
messages and hang-ups that have prevented many customers from
completing applications.  Sebelius Testifies  “No one ever imagined the volume of issues that we have,
and we must fix it,” Sebelius said yesterday at a hearing of
the House Energy and Commerce Committee. She said she is
“accountable for the debacle. I’m responsible.”  While Republicans have called for her dismissal, Obama
“has complete confidence in Secretary Sebelius,”  Josh Earnest ,
a White House spokesman, told reporters traveling with the
president yesterday.  Demonstrators protesting  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s Keystone XL
pipeline interrupted Obama’s speech.  “Mr. president, stop the pipeline,” they shouted.  Obama responded by telling them they were at the wrong
event. “We had the  climate change  rally back in the summer,”
he said. “This is the health-care rally.”  While in Boston, Obama also spoke at a fundraiser for the
Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, the fifth he’s done
for the committee for the 2014 midterm elections. It was at the
home of Alan D. Solomont and Susan Lewis Solomont. Alan
Solomont, an Obama campaign bundler, served as ambassador to
Spain and  Andorra  until August.  The event, complete with Spanish food and Red Sox cookies,
drew about 60 guests, including documentarian Ken Burns. Tickets
range from $16,200 to $32,400 per person, according to the
committee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Talev in  Washington  at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  