-- Obama Said Close to Picking Harley as Ambassador in Paris
-- B y   J o e   S o b c z y k
-- 2013-10-31T21:48:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/obama-said-close-to-picking-harley-as-ambassador-in-paris.html
Jane Hartley, a fundraiser for
President  Barack Obama  and co-founder of the economic and
political advisory firm Observatory Group LLC, is the leading
candidate to be nominated as U.S. ambassador to  France , two
people familiar with the matter said.  Hartley, 63, would replace Charles Rivkin, another Obama
fundraiser who the president has nominated to become assistant
secretary of state for economic and business affairs, according
to the people, who asked for anonymity because the nomination
hasn’t been announced.  Rivkin was summoned to the French Foreign Ministry last
week as the French government expressed anger over reports that
the U.S. National Security Agency collected data on millions of
telephone calls inside France. NSA Director General Keith Alexander told a congressional committee this week that those
reports are “completely false.”  The nomination for the ambassadorship to France and  Monaco 
is subject to Senate confirmation.  Hartley raised at least $500,000 for Obama’s 2012 re-election campaign and has made contributions to other Democrats
including Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid of  Nevada , Senators
Charles Schumer of New York, Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts
and Cory Booker, who won a special election in New Jersey
earlier this month.  Hartley and her husband, Ralph Schlosstein, chief executive
officer and president of  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR) , were co-hosts
of a fundraiser for Obama in New York that drew donors from the
financial industry in March 2012.  Avenue Capital Group LLC co-founder  Marc Lasry  had been the
leading candidate for the Paris posting. He told clients of the
distressed-debt firm in April that he would stay at New York-based Avenue. He said in an April 28 Bloomberg Television
interview that leaving the firm for government service “just
isn’t feasible.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Sobczyk in Washington at 
 jsobczyk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  