-- Lockheed Official Says South Korea Needs F-35 to Compete
-- B y   S a m   K i m
-- 2013-11-01T01:09:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/lockheed-official-says-south-korea-may-fall-behind-without-f-35.html
South Korea  faces a choice between
embracing the F-35 fighter plane in its next round of bidding or
being left with “legacy equipment,” a senior  Lockheed Martin
Corp. (LMT)  official said.  On Sept. 24, South Korea called off an 8.3 trillion-won
($7.8 billion) tender for 60 fighter jets, rejecting  Boeing
Co. (BA) ’s bid on concerns the F-15 Silent Eagle wasn’t advanced
enough to counter North Korea’s nuclear threat. Lockheed’s F-35
and the Eurofighter Typhoon of European Aeronautic, Defence &
Space Co. had been rejected earlier on cost grounds.  “In a crisis, no one will ask how much that fighter
cost,” George Standridge, a Lockheed vice president for
aeronautics strategy and business development, said yesterday in
an interview near  Seoul . “The question is, can that fighter go
do the job that this government needs it to go do.”  Lockheed’s F-35 is considered part of the so-called fifth
generation of fighters. The single-engine F-35 jet, the world’s
most expensive weapons program, is being bought by countries
from the U.S. to  Australia  to  Israel , and is being considered by
 Singapore , which also operates F-15s.  “We’re in an inflection point,” Standridge said. “It’s
not just happening in South Korea. It’s happening all over the
world. The question is, will you embrace this new capability and
new technology, will you stay with legacy equipment.”  Air Defense  South Korea is seeking to replace its aging F-4s and F-5s
and add to the arsenal of its F-15Ks and KF-16s that form the
backbone of its air defense against  North Korea .  “The F-35 will ensure longer-term advantages,” Bruce Lemkin, a former U.S. Air Force undersecretary, said today in an
e-mail. “This is not trivial, considering developments in the
region and not being seen as lagging behind others.”  Lemkin said that although neither Boeing nor Lockheed is a
client of his consulting firm, Lemkin International LLC, he
“principally” wants to see South Korea flying the same
aircraft as the U.S. to advance their military alliance and
ensure seamless joint operations.  The U.S. already uses the F-15s and will bring F-35s into
service once their testing is completed.  U.S. Display  In March, the U.S. flew radar-evading B-2 bombers and F-22
fighters in the region in a show of force during joint drills
with South Korea after the North tested its third nuclear device
and threatened missile strikes against the two allies.  “There were hundreds of fighters here when that happened,
but the  Air Force  and the U.S. government elected to deploy
these advanced systems, because they bring in an added
capability not existent anywhere else,” Standridge said.
“That’s what we’re talking about.”  South Korea plans to reopen the next round of bidding as
quickly as possibly and may readjust the budget limit, the
country’s arms procurement office said last month. South Korea
may also consider a mixed purchase of different models, Defense
Ministry spokesman Kim Min Seok said Sept. 24.  Standridge declined to say how much South Korea would have
to raise its budget to accommodate for F-35s.  Boeing is open to sharing the order with Lockheed.  “If it turns out a split of 40 F-15s and 20 F-35s is the
right answer, then, of course we will want to participate in
that,” James Armington, vice president for East Asia-Pacific
business development at Boeing’s defense unit, said in an
interview on Oct. 29.  Korean Border  South Korea faces North Korea over one of the world’s most
heavily armed borders, a legacy of the 1950-53  Korean War  that
ended in a truce. In 2010, North Korea bombarded a South Korean
island near the front line, killing four people. That incident
led military officials to vow air strikes should another front-line provocation occur.  South Korea plans to spend almost 1 trillion won next year
building a command system that would allow its military to carry
out first strikes against targets in North Korea if required.
President Park Geun Hye said Oct. 1 her government would hasten
the development of that system.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sam Kim in Seoul at 
 skim609@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  