-- OGX Sold Only Producing Unit Before Filing for Bankruptcy
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o   a n d   F r a n c i s c o   M a r c e l i n o
-- 2013-10-31T20:54:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/ogx-sold-only-producing-unit-before-filing-for-bankruptcy.html
OGX Petroleo (OGXP3)  & Gas Participacoes SA,
the crude company controlled by former billionaire  Eike Batista ,
agreed to sell its only producing asset hours before filing for
 bankruptcy protection .  The first Brazilian oil producer to seek protection from
creditors reached an accord to sell its stake in OGX Maranhao
Petroleo e Gas SA yesterday, according to a copy of the petition
obtained by  Bloomberg News . Brazilian private equity fund
Cambuhy Investimentos Ltda and  Germany ’s EON SE will buy the OGX
stake in a two-stage deal worth 594 million reais ($270
million), the company said today in a  regulatory filing .  The sale reduces the amount of money OGX bondholders and
other creditors could recover if the company’s assets are
liquidated, Omar Zeolla, a corporate credit analyst at
Oppenheimer & Co. in  New York , said by phone. OGX has about 11.2
billion reais in total debts, according to the filing.  Cambuhy, based in Sao Paulo, will buy 200 million reais of
new Maranhao stock in a 250 million-real capital increase, with
EON, Germany’s largest utility, purchasing the rest. Cambuhy
will then buy OGX’s remaining stake for 200 million reais. OGX
will also receive a 144 million-real payment from the natural
gas producer to settle outstanding debt, it said.  Default Shelter  Eneva SA (ENEV3) , the Brazilian utility controlled by EON and
Batista, said Oct. 28 it had offered to buy out the natural gas
company shared with OGX from its three bank creditors if the
venture defaults. Eneva had agreed to pay 200 million reais for
the 66.7 percent stake it doesn’t own in the unit, it said at
the time. Cambuhy has now agreed to take over this agreement in
the case it doesn’t complete the purchase of OGX’s stake and
lenders execute guarantees, Eneva  said  today.  When the transaction is completed, Cambuhy will have a 73
percent stake in Maranhao, while Eneva will have 18 percent and
EON the remaining 9 percent, the Rio de Janeiro-based utility
said. The companies will run the venture via a new shareholders
agreement.  OGX declined 24 percent to close at a record low 13
centavos in  Sao Paulo  today. Eneva  jumped  9.2 percent to 4.50
reais, the biggest increase since Sept. 4.  EON became Eneva’s largest holder on May 29 and increased
its stake in a private placement on July 4, three days after OGX
said it would probably have to shut its only producing oil
field, and Batista was replaced as Eneva chairman.  Maranhao, in which Eneva currently has a 33.3 percent
stake, operates eight blocks in  Brazil ’s Parnaiba basin,
producing gas for the utility’s thermoelectric plants in the
region. Its Gaviao Real natural gas field is Brazil’s eighth
largest by production, according to the country’s oil regulator.  OGX’s share of natural gas output from Maranhao was 2.1
million cubic meters a day in September, equivalent to 13,200
barrels of oil a day, the company said in a Oct. 10 statement  Wealth Destruction  The entry of Cambuhy will stabilize the natural gas venture
and support the operations of Eneva’s power generation in the
Parnaiba complex, EON said in an e-mailed statement.  “Its investment will increase the gas supply security and
support the expansion plans of the Parnaiba gas fields,” the
company said today.  The filing by OGX puts $3.6 billion of dollar bonds into
default in the largest corporate debt debacle on record in  Latin
America  and culminates a 16-month decline that wiped out more
than $30 billion of Batista’s personal fortune.  Revenue Potential  “OGX has operating problems as its assets don’t generate
revenue, and the company couldn’t survive without creditor
support,” Caetano Berenguer, a partner at law firm Sergio
Bermudes that represents OGX, said in a telephone interview from
Rio. “OGX has potential to generate revenue soon.”  Batista founded OGX in 2007 and it became the pillar of his
group of commodities and logistics companies. OGX’s initial
success finding oil in shallow waters off the coast of Rio
sparked a stock market rally that made it more valuable than
other established producers including Repsol SA.  When OGX moved from exploration to production it
encountered more complicated and compartmentalized geology than
expected and started abandoning projects it had previously
declared commercial.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net ;
Francisco Marcelino in Sao Paulo at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  