-- Oil Gambit Helps India Mining Billionaire Lead Rio: Commodities
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y ,   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r   a n d   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h
-- 2013-10-31T15:09:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/oil-gambit-helps-india-mining-billionaire-lead-rio-commodities.html
Until three years ago,  Anil Agarwal 
never thought he should branch into oil. Today the business
helps the Indian mining magnate keep his place among
billionaires.  Agarwal’s $8.7 billion purchase of  Cairn India Ltd. (CAIR) , the
country’s biggest onshore oil producer, diversified investors in
his  Sesa Sterlite Ltd. (SSLT)  metals group against a slump in mining
stocks. Sesa jumped in recent months and gained 5.4 percent
since the 2011 deal, while  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  rose 1.1 percent
and  Rio Tinto Group (RIO)  fell 4.5 percent.  Cairn India helps the 59-year-old counter a mining slump
after government and environmental challenges halted his iron
ore mines and a multibillion dollar investment to build an
integrated aluminum producing complex. He won access to India’s
biggest oil deposit on land and a market where energy demand is
forecast to increase 14 percent in the five years to 2015.  “It’s common sense, it’s survival and it’s paying off
now,” said P. Phani Sekhar, a Mumbai-based  fund manager  at
Angel Broking Ltd., which owns Cairn India shares. “Agarwal is
wedded to commodities and oil was a commodity he didn’t have. It
balanced his businesses and helped him ride the downturn in the
other sectors.”  Agarwal, whose net worth declined 9 percent this year to
$3.4 billion according to the Bloomberg Billionaires Index,
combined the nation’s biggest copper producer Sterlite
Industries (India) Ltd. with iron-ore miner Sesa Goa Ltd. in
August and transferred ownership of Cairn India to the merged
entity. The move lifted Sesa Sterlite shares by 50 percent since
the merger was completed on Aug. 17.  Vedanta Earnings  Sesa, 58.3 percent owned by Agarwal’s London-based holding
company  Vedanta Resources Ltd. (VED) , today reported a second-quarter
 profit  of 23.9 billion rupees ($388.7 million). Vedanta
spokesman Pavan Kaushik didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking
comment from Agarwal and on shareholder returns.  Rising oil prices have benefited Agarwal.  Brent crude 
traded in  London  has increased about 40 percent to $109 a barrel
through yesterday from its level in August 2010 when Agarwal
announced the Cairn India acquisition.  Agarwal was  born  in Rajasthan province as the son of a
cable maker. At 18, he took charge of his father’s trade after
completing high school in Patna in eastern Bihar state. He
established Vedanta in 1976 as a scrap-metal dealership in
Mumbai, a business that showed him the importance of raw
materials, he said in an interview in August 2010.  Childhood Question  “I never thought I’d go into oil,” Agarwal said then in
his home in London. “Since my childhood I heard we have an oil
deficit. I used to feel why can’t we discover our own oil?”  Yet Agarwal focused on metals, beginning to build his
empire by acquiring copper-cable producer Shamsher Sterling
Corp. from the king of Nepal in 1979. Adding Australian copper
mines in 1999, aluminum and zinc producers over the next three
years and iron-ore exporter Sesa Goa Ltd. for $981 million in
2007, the entrepreneur parlayed his scrap-metal startup into a
$30 billion group of companies.  In 2004, Agarwal started building a $7.8 billion aluminum
refining complex and bauxite mine in the eastern state of
Odisha, aiming to emerge as the nation’s biggest producer of the
lightweight metal used in beverage cans and aircraft parts.
Trouble began when inhabitants of the remote Niyamgiri hills,
the site of the mine, opposed the plan because they believed
their god lived in the hills, prompting the government to reject
Agarwal’s request for a bauxite mining permit.  Iron Ore Ban  The Niyamgiri debacle halted Agarwal’s plan to start 1.25
million tons of new metal capacity at Lanjigarh, in the
foothills of Niyamgiri. Sesa is running a 500,000 ton smelter in
Lanjigarh with alumina purchased externally or sourced from its
own unit there.  A ban on iron-ore mining in the states of Karnataka and Goa
two years ago compounded Agarwal’s woes. Earnings at the
erstwhile Sesa Goa fell to a six-quarter low in the three months
ended March 31. Sesa is close to restarting some of its iron ore
mines in Karnataka as early as next month, two officials
familiar with the matter said Oct. 25, asking not to be
identified before an announcement.  Cairn  India ’s  earnings  before interest, tax, depreciation
and amortization as a percentage of sales was 74.6 percent in
the year ended March 31, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That’s the highest among Asia-Pacific oil and gas
producers with a market value of at least $5 billion.  Cairn Output  The explorer plans to spend $3 billion in three years to
raise output, according to an Oct. 22 statement. Cairn India,
whose output from its biggest field remained at 175,000 barrels
a day for at least five quarters, plans to increase production
to 300,000 barrels day. Oil and zinc are the only two of Sesa’s
businesses that have more cash than debt.  “Sesa’s earnings from Cairn India and Hindustan Zinc are
like bread and butter at present, considering they have almost
90 percent of the cash balance,” Hemant Dharnidharka,
Bangalore-based head of credit research at SJS Markets Ltd.,
said by telephone on Oct. 28. “The dependence on Cairn should
reduce as the iron ore business restarts.”  Agarwal’s plan to buy the government’s stake in Hindustan
Zinc, in which Sesa owns 65 percent, has been delayed because of
legal hurdles, limiting his access to the company’s $3.8 billion
of cash. Vedanta got shareholder  approval  yesterday to spend as
much as $3.48 billion for the government’s 29.5 percent stake in
Hindustan Zinc and 49 percent in Bharat Aluminium Ltd., in which
Sesa owns 51 percent.  The setbacks in India have prompted Sesa to seek mines
overseas. The company is in the process of investing as much as
$2.4 billion in four years to develop assets in Liberia in its
first overseas expansion.  “For now, it’s about Agarwal putting his head down and
hoping the price of oil doesn’t collapse,” Phani Sekhar said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net ;
Abhishek Shanker in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net ;
Rajesh Kumar Singh in New Delhi at 
 rsingh133@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  