-- Tokyo Plans Schools and Transport in Bay Area Ahead of Olympics
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h u   a n d   K a t s u y o   K u w a k o
-- 2013-10-31T02:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/tokyo-plans-schools-and-transport-in-bay-area-ahead-of-olympics.html
The  Tokyo  Metropolitan Government is
considering building schools and transportation near the
athlete’s village to ensure the popularity of the Tokyo Bay area
after the 2020  Olympic Games .  The 44-hectare (109-acre) Olympic Village complex, to be
located in Harumi in Tokyo Bay, will be financed and built by
developers, and will be sold or leased after the summer games,
according to the bid documents. Tokyo is in talks with the
residents of the bay area and local government about building
schools, shopping areas and transportation systems to keep the
area viable after the games, said Masaaki Sawai, who is in
charge of planning for the Olympic Village at the government.  Tokyo is planning beyond the 2020 games as it seeks to
avoid the fate of other host cities, including London and
 Vancouver , that have struggled with funding and finding ways to
cut losses after the event. Developers of Tokyo’s Olympic
Village, estimated to cost about 105.7 billion yen ($1.1
billion) to build, will be selected by mid-2014, according to
bid documents.  “We must make the area attractive enough for developers to
participate so that they can easily sell or lease out the units
after the games,” Sawai, director for Olympic Village, said in
an interview. “We don’t have much time left.”  Post Olympics  Part of the Olympic Village used for the 2012 London games
which cost 1.1 billion pounds to build, sold to Delancey Estates
Plc and Qatari Diar Real Estate Investment Co. for 557 million
pounds ($893 million) in 2011. The City of Vancouver had to step
in as manager and financier of its C$1.1 billion ($1.05 billion)
athletes’ village in 2009 after New York-based lender  Fortress
Investment Group LLC (FIG)  halted funding to the builder when costs
ran C$125 million over budget.  Under the plans, the Olympic Village, to be built in the
middle of two main competition zones, will consist of luxury
apartments surrounded by Tokyo Bay, with a view of the Rainbow
Bridge that connects central Tokyo with the Odaiba area. It will
comprise of 10,860 residential units spread across about two-dozen buildings, along with training gyms, dining halls, seaside
restaurants and parks, the bid documents show.  While the bid documents show that the athletes will stay
between the second and 14 floors in each building, the
developers may construct high-rise buildings ahead of the games,
Sawai said.  “It takes about three to four years to build a 50-story
building, so there is not much time left,” said Sawai. “After
the game, these units on lower floors will need to be converted
to regular apartments for sale or for lease.”  The Tokyo Olympic Committee will choose the developers,
with design and construction work starting later next year,
according to candidacy documents from the Tokyo government.  The Tokyo government and Chuo ward, which is where the
Olympic will be, are considering two transportation systems that
connect Ginza to the Harumi area, Sawai said, declining to say
when the government will reach a decision. The government is
studying the feasibility of a rapid bus transit system that has
its own lane and a light rail train that runs on streets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Chu in Tokyo at 
 kchu2@bloomberg.net ;
Katsuyo Kuwako in Tokyo at 
 kkuwako@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  