-- Hollande Holds Firm on Taxing France’s Soccer Stars at 75%
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2013-10-31T18:49:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/hollande-holds-firm-on-taxing-france-s-soccer-stars-at-75-.html
French President  Francois Hollande ,
who this week gave into pressure and suspended a tax on trucks,
refused to back away from his pledge to tax high-earning soccer
players.  Hollande met today with presidents of French soccer clubs
over his plan to impose a 75 percent levy on earnings of more
than 1 million euros ($1.38 million). Football teams, which
would pay the levy on behalf of their players, say they’re
losing money and can’t afford it.  “We didn’t get the impression that we were listened to at
all,”  Frederic Thiriez , head of French major league soccer,
said after the meeting. “There was no movement at all.”
Thiriez said the league will carry through on its threat to not
play a round of matches in late November. “We have a month to
convince,” he said.  Hollande announced the 75 percent tax in February 2012 as
part of his presidential campaign to appeal to his Socialist
base. It has become a symbol of his government’s record-high
rate of taxation.  A first attempt to put the tax into law was rejected by the
constitutional court in December because it applied to
individuals and not households.  Hollande later revived the tax, making it apply to salaries
and be paid by employers rather than individuals. That means
that soccer stars are subject to the levy while tennis players
are not. The total amount paid is limited to 5 percent of a
company’s revenue.  Survival Threat  For some unprofitable clubs, the extra burden is a threat
to survival, according to the  Ligue de Football Professionnel ,
France’s top soccer league, which estimates the extra cost as 44
million euros.  Hollande in the meeting “stressed the idea of this
exceptional tax of 75 percent on high earnings, which will be
applied for two years,” according to a statement from his
office. “The need to improve the state’s accounts fully
justifies this effort asked of all companies that make the
choice of paying salaries at this level.”  In the 2011-12 season, the 40 clubs of the first and second
divisions had losses of a combined 108 million euros on revenue
of 1.6 billion, the LPF said in its most recent annual report.
Nine of the 20 first division teams lost money that season.  The league last made an overall profit in 2007-8.  Only five of the 20 top clubs have no players earning more
than 1 million euros, while Monaco is excluded because it’s
fiscally separate from  France .  Swedish forward Zlatan Ibrahimovic earns 16 million euros a
year at Paris Saint-Germain, one of 12 players at the reigning
French champions making over 1 million euros a year, according
to the Le Parisien newspaper.  Two day ago, the French government postponed a planned
ecological tax on trucks after farmers in Brittany protested.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  