-- Money Funds Urge SEC to Change Definition of Retail Funds
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2013-10-31T15:46:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/money-funds-urge-sec-to-change-definition-of-retail-funds.html
Eight leading managers of money-market mutual funds urged the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission to alter the way it defines retail funds in proposed
new rules for the industry.  The companies, including  Fidelity Investments  in  Boston  and
New York-based  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , urged the commission in a letter
today to limit ownership of retail funds to “natural persons,”
typically those with a social security number. The SEC has
proposed that only funds restricting daily redemptions to $1
million be classified as retail.  The definition is important because retail funds, along
with those that invest only in debt backed by the U.S.
government, would be exempt from the most transformative rule
proposed for money funds in the commission’s effort to make them
safer. Institutional funds eligible to invest in corporate and
municipal debt would be forced to abandon their traditional $1
share price in favor of a floating value.  “The proposed daily redemption limit would be burdensome
to implement for both funds and third-party intermediaries,
resulting in significant costs and operational complexity,” the
companies wrote in the letter. “We believe that there is a
simpler and more cost effective way to achieve the Commission’s
goal of providing an exemption for retail investors.”  Vanguard Group Inc.,  Invesco Ltd. (IVZ) ,  Legg Mason Inc. (LM) , T. Rowe
Price Group Inc.,  Northern Trust Corp. (NTRS)  and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) 
also signed the letter.  A push to make money funds more stable began after the
Sept. 2008 collapse of the $62.5 billion Reserve Primary Fund,
whose closing triggered a wider run on money funds, helping to
freeze global credit markets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  