-- Mongolia Sees Trade Boost by Using North Korean Ports
-- B y   S a m   K i m
-- 2013-10-31T06:07:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/mongolia-sees-trade-boost-by-using-north-korean-ports.html
Mongolian President Tsakhia Elbegdorj said his land-locked country sees  North Korea  as its
“nearest sea outlet” for global exports and could bring in
North Korean workers to deal with labor shortages.  “We do see ample opportunities of cooperation in railways,
air and auto-transport and sea-ports,” Elbegdorj told a group
of Mongolian and North Korean businessmen in Pyongyang on
Tuesday, according to the text of the  speech  posted on his
website. “Mongolia is interested in importing highly qualified
and organized workforce.”  Elbegdorj has met with senior North Korean officials,
including Prime Minister Pak Pong Ju since he arrived in
Pyongyang on Oct. 28 to become the first head of state to visit
since Kim Jong Un became supreme leader in December 2011.  Mongolia, one of  Asia ’s fastest growing economies, adopted
democracy and free elections in 1990, and moved to welcome
foreign trade by offering access to its mineral riches. North
Korea has been reaching out to friendly nations such as Mongolia
and  Indonesia  as international sanctions over its nuclear arms
program have limited trade and hobbled the economy. Both
countries have relied heavily on their neighbor  China  for
exports.  Tourism in North  Mongolians could travel to the North for “leisure and
vacation” and help boost its tourism, Elbegdorj said. Mongolia,
a nation of 2.9 million people facing land desertification,
could also use North Koreans’ experience in farming,
agriculture, and planting trees, he said.  In September last year, after meeting with Kim Yong Nam,
visiting chief of North Korea’s parliament, Elbegdorj pledged to
help the new North Korean leader pursue economic reform,
offering his nation’s experience of moving toward capitalism.  In June, HBOil JSC, an oil trading and refining company in
Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia said it acquired a 20 percent stake in the
Sungri refinery in the North’s northeastern free trade zone of
Rason. Sungri has a refining capacity of 2 million tons a year
and is connected to the Russian railway systems, HBOil said in a
release.  North Korea and Mongolia first set up diplomatic relations
in 1948, the year the North was founded. The relationship
between the two countries dates back to 1939 when North Korean
founder  Kim Il Sung  joined Mongolian-Soviet forces in fighting
the Japanese, Song Byeong Gu, a professor of Mongolian studies
at Dankook University outside  Seoul , wrote in a paper in April.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sam Kim in Seoul at 
 skim609@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  