-- Oracle Investors Reject CEO Ellison’s Pay at Annual Meeting
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2013-10-31T23:09:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/oracle-investors-reject-ceo-ellison-s-pay-at-annual-meeting-2-.html
Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  shareholders rejected
the pay packages of Chief Executive Officer Larry Ellison and
other top managers for a second year, hewing to the
recommendation of a proxy adviser that said their compensation
is out of sync with the company’s performance.  At Oracle’s  annual meeting  today in  Redwood City ,
 California , the company said  shareholders  also voted to re-elect
all of its directors, contrary to the guidance of Institutional
Shareholder Services. ISS had said votes should be withheld from
Chairman Jeff Henley and seven independent board members,
including Bruce Chizen, George Conrades and Naomi Seligman of
the compensation committee.  While the vote on pay is nonbinding, it underscored the
growing unrest among shareholders. In recent months, Oracle has
tussled with labor group Change to Win, which criticized the
software maker’s pay policies. Michael Pryce-Jones, an analyst
at Change to Win’s CtW Investment Group, stood at the meeting
after votes were announced to argue for Chizen’s resignation as
head of the compensation panel, drawing a rebuke from Ellison to
refrain from “editorial comments.”  Drawing consecutive defeats on this kind of vote, known as
a say-on-pay measure, is rare -- just 12 companies in the
Russell 3000 Index of large U.S. companies have lost more than
one such vote, including Abercrombie & Fitch Co., Gentiva Health
Services Inc. and oil driller Nabors Industries Ltd., said
 Patrick McGurn , an  executive director  at ISS.  Little Response  “It’s not common at all,” said Barbara Pomfret, an
analyst at Bloomberg Industries. Most companies don’t adjust
compensation in future years in response to say-on-pay votes,
she said. Occidental Petroleum Corp. was one company that did
change its 2010 awards based on a no vote, she said.  Ellison, 69, is worth $38.8 billion and ranks eighth on the
Bloomberg Billionaires Index. He was the highest-paid CEO in the
U.S. this year, data compiled by Bloomberg show. His pay package
declined 18 percent to $78.4 million for fiscal 2013 after he
gave up an annual bonus and the company missed some of its
profit targets. Last month, Oracle gave a weaker-than-projected
profit forecast for the current quarter.  About 57 percent of shareholders voted against Oracle’s pay
plan, compared with 59 percent last year, according to CtW,
which issued a statement after the vote calling for Oracle to
“reform  Larry Ellison ’s exorbitant compensation package.”  Investor Voices  CtW wasn’t the only investor voicing dissatisfaction. On
Oct. 28, the California State Teachers’ Retirement System, the
U.K.’s Railway Pension Investments Ltd. and Dutch pension-fund
manager PGGM NV sent a  letter  to Oracle shareholders, saying
they have “severe concerns about executive compensation and
proper board accountability at Oracle.”  The  California Public Employees’ Retirement System  also
said it was  voting against  Oracle’s pay plan and Chizen.  “We’re constantly evaluating information and we will
continue to do so,” Michael Boskin, an Oracle director, said at
the meeting. “But we think we have a good process that is good
corporate governance.”  Oracle, which supplies databases, business applications and
computer servers, has seen sales  growth  slow as companies move
to newer programs delivered over the Internet. Revenue this year
is projected to rise 3 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Oracle’s stock has increased 7.8 percent in the past
year, compared with a 24 percent  gain  in the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index.  CtW wants Oracle to appoint a new director to oversee pay,
and opposes the use of  stock options  to pay Ellison and other
executives. Ellison owned 24.4 percent of Oracle shares as of
Oct. 3, making any vote against directors and the pay plan more
challenging.  Deborah Hellinger , a spokeswoman at Oracle, declined to
comment on investors’ statements about the company’s proxy
election.  Oracle  shares  were little changed at $33.50 at the close in
 New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  