-- Oracle Investors Reject CEO Ellison’s Pay at Annual Meeting
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2013-10-31T18:35:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/oracle-shareholders-reject-ceo-ellison-s-pay-at-annual-meeting.html
Oracle Corp. shareholders rejected
the pay packages of Chief Executive Officer  Larry Ellison  and
other executives, hewing to the recommendation by a proxy
adviser that said their compensation is out of sync with the
company’s performance.  At Oracle’s  annual meeting  today in Redwood City,
 California , the company said  shareholders  also voted to re-elect
all of its directors, contrary to the guidance of Institutional
Shareholder Services. ISS had said votes should be withheld from
Chairman Jeff Henley and seven independent board members,
including Bruce Chizen, George Conrades and Naomi Seligman of
the compensation committee.  Oracle also has tussled with labor group Change to Win,
which criticized pay for top managers at the largest database-software maker. On Oct. 28, the California State Teachers’
Retirement System, the U.K.’s Railway Pension Investments Ltd.
and Dutch pension-fund manager PGGM NV sent a  letter  to Oracle
shareholders, saying they have “severe concerns about executive
compensation and proper board accountability at Oracle.”  The California Public Employees’ Retirement System also
said it was  voting against  Oracle’s pay plan and Chizen,
chairman of the board’s compensation committee. It’s the second
straight year shareholders have rejected executive pay packages,
and the vote is non-binding.  “We’re constantly evaluating information and we will
continue to do so,” Michael Boskin, an Oracle director, said at
the meeting. “But we think we have a good process that is good
corporate governance.”  Slowing Growth  Oracle, which supplies databases, business applications and
computer servers, has seen sales  growth  slow as companies move
to newer programs delivered over the Internet. Revenue this year
is projected to rise 3 percent, according to data compiled by
 Bloomberg. (ORCL)  Oracle’s stock had increased 7.9 percent in the past
year through yesterday, compared with a 25 percent  gain  in the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Ellison, 69, is worth $38.7 billion and ranks eighth on the
Bloomberg Billionaires Index. He was the highest-paid CEO in the
U.S. this year, data compiled by Bloomberg show. His pay package
declined 18 percent to $78.4 million for fiscal 2013 after he
gave up an annual bonus and the company missed some of its
profit targets. Last month, Oracle gave a weaker-than-projected
profit forecast for the current quarter.  CtW wants Oracle to appoint a new director to oversee pay,
and opposes the use of stock options to pay Ellison and other
executives. Ellison owned 24.4 percent of Oracle shares as of
Oct. 3, making a vote against directors and the pay plan more
challenging.  Deborah Hellinger , a spokeswoman at Oracle, declined to
comment on investors’ statements about the company’s proxy
election.  Oracle  shares  rose less than 1 percent to $33.79 at 2:34
p.m. in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  