-- Morgan Stanley Beating Goldman in Retail: Russia Overnigh
-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a   a n d   V l a d i m i r   K u z n e t s o v
-- 2013-10-31T10:10:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/morgan-stanley-beating-goldman-in-retail-russia-overnigh.html
One day after Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. reiterated its preference for X5 Retail Group NV among
Russian retailers,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  reinforced its backing of
competitor OAO Magnit.  Traders are siding with Morgan Stanley.  Global depositary receipts of Magnit gained 0.6 percent to
$64.50 by 9:46 a.m. in London, after touching a record high of
8,719 rubles in Moscow yesterday. The stock has gained 80
percent this year, the best performance on  Russia ’s benchmark
Micex index. X5 slipped 1 percent to $16.08 yesterday and was
set for a 9.8 percent decline in 2013. The Bloomberg Russia-US
Equity Index of the most-traded Russian companies in the U.S.
slumped 0.5 percent as futures on Russia’s RTS Index fell in
U.S. hours.  Morgan Stanley boosted its price estimate on Magnit’s
global depositary receipts by 23 percent, reiterating a buy
rating, a day after Goldman Sachs said a turnaround in the
management of  X5 Retail Group NV (FIVE) , Russia’s second-largest
retailer, will boost competition for the No.1 supermarket chain.
Magnit said on Oct. 28 that profit margin rose to a record high
while X5’s third-quarter revenue fell short of analysts
estimates.  “I side with Morgan Stanley as we own Magnit and believe
in its potential to expand in Russian regions and further
increase revenue,” Mansur Mammadov, a  money manager  at Kazimir
Partners, which oversees $300 million in assets, said in a phone
interview from Moscow Oct. 30. “I was surprised with Goldman’s
report on X5. It will take another several quarters for X5 to
actually turn around.”  Moscow Expansion  X5, which has lost almost two-thirds of its market value
since mid-2011, formed a new management team as it plans to
refurbish stores in a bid to bolster sales. X5 seeks to improve
focus on the “individual needs” of its store formats and
improve supplier relationships, Chief Executive Officer Stephan
Ducharme told investors Oct. 11.  Magnit, owned by billionaire Sergey Galitskiy, plans to
expand in Moscow and  St. Petersburg , traditionally X5
strongholds.  Morgan Stanley increased its price estimate on Magnit to
$80 per London-listed depositary receipt. Goldman said in an
Oct. 29 note that X5 “can win the race”, reiterating a buy on
the stock and keeping it on the bank’s list of the most
recommended shares in the region.  Tanya Barkas, a spokeswoman for Morgan Stanley in  New York ,
said the firm’s office in London, which was closed after regular
business hours, oversees Magnit coverage. An e-mailed message to
Anna Leath, a Goldman Sachs spokeswoman in New York, wasn’t
immediately returned.  Market Share  ADRs of  OAO Gazprom Neft (GZPFY) , the worst-performing Russian oil
stock in New York in at the time, have jumped 18 percent since
Goldman Sachs predicted in August that it would rebound on
prospects of higher output and dividends.  Magnit, which reported a record-high profit margin in the
third quarter, can double its market share in the next three to
four years, Natalya Kolupaeva, senior analyst at ZAO
Raiffeisenbank at Moscow, said by phone yesterday.  “Magnit keeps amazing everyone,” Kolupaeva said. “It’s a
stable, clear and transparent company. It is a leader in the
market and will remain a leader. X5 can rise from the ashes, but
the risks it may fail to do so are also great.”  Kolupaeva rates both stocks a hold and is in the process of
revising her recommendation on Magnit, she said, declining to
comment on whether she plans to upgrade it to a buy.  “Moscow-listed shares of Magnit are a real opportunity for
investors,” Kolupaeva said. “The gap between  London  and Moscow
is still wide and will shrink over time because the local shares
become more accessible by foreign investors.”  London Premium  Magnit’s London depositary receipts traded at an 18 percent
premium to the Moscow-listed shares yesterday, the narrowest gap
since April 10, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Raiffeisenbank’s Kolupaeva expects the gap will shrink to about
5 percent in a year from now.  While none of the  analysts  covering Magnit recommends
selling it, sell recommendation on X5 rose to an eight-month
high in October, data compiled by Bloomberg shows. Bank of
America Merrill Lynch raised X5 to a buy on Oct. 24, 10 days
after JPMorgan Chase & Co. and HSBC Holdings Plc cut their
recommendations to the equivalent of sell.  “World’s major banks have been lately showing a very
different vision on how to play Russia’s retail sector,”
Mammadov said.  The Bloomberg Russia-US gauge dropped to 103.69. The  Market
Vectors Russia ETF (RSX) , the biggest U.S.-traded exchange-traded fund
that holds Russian shares, slipped 0.7 percent to $29.34. The
RTS Volatility Index, which measures expected swings in the
index futures, dropped 7 percent to 21.70 today, while RTS
stock-index futures decreased 0.5 percent to 147,960 in U.S.
hours.  United Co. Rusal, a Moscow-based aluminum producer dropped
0.8 percent to HK$2.37 in Hong Kong trading. The MSCI Asia
Pacific Index fell 0.4 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net ;
Vladimir Kuznetsov in Moscow at 
 vkuznetsov2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  