-- Police Have Video of Ford ‘Consistent’ With Drug Reports
-- B y   G e r r i t   D e   V y n c k
-- 2013-10-31T17:37:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/toronto-police-have-video-of-ford-consistent-with-drug-reports.html
Toronto police have recovered a
video of Mayor Rob Ford showing images “consistent” with media
reports that he was seen smoking what appeared to be  crack
cocaine .  “I think it’s fair to say the mayor does appear in that
video,” Toronto Police Chief Bill Blair told reporters in the
city today. There isn’t enough evidence in the video to warrant
criminal charges and police haven’t interviewed Ford, he said.  The Toronto Star reported on May 16 they had seen a video
that showed Ford smoking what appeared to be crack cocaine. U.S.
website Gawker was the first to report on the video and raised
$200,000 in an unsuccessful attempt to buy it.  The mayor said in May he doesn’t smoke crack cocaine and
said the video didn’t exist.  A message left at the mayor’s office wasn’t immediately
returned. He did not answer questions put to him by reporters
outside his home this morning, according to video footage posted
on the Toronto Star’s  website .  “As a citizen of Toronto I’m disappointed,” Blair said.
“This is a traumatic issue for the citizens of this city and
for the reputation of this city,” he said.  Police recovered the video Oct. 29 from a hard drive seized
during a June 13 drug probe in the city, said Blair. A  500-page
police document  filed in court was released today detailing
“Project Brazen 2,” a surveillance operation in connection
with the probe.  ‘Quite Shocked’  The document shows photos of multiple meetings between Ford
and Alexander Lisi, who police arrested this morning on charges
of extortion, Blair said. Lisi was arrested earlier this month
on drug charges and released.  Rob Ford has said Lisi was a friend of his.  “I’m quite shocked,” Paula Fletcher, a Toronto city
councilor said on CP24 television. “This is unprecedented in
the city of Toronto. I believe that up to this point many people
have given the mayor the benefit of the doubt. With the chief’s
press conference today, that day is probably done.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gerrit De Vynck in Toronto at 
 gdevynck@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  