-- Lhota Says He’s Underdog ‘Rocky’ in NYC Against De Blasio
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n   a n d   E s m é   D e p r e z
-- 2013-10-31T04:37:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/lhota-says-he-s-underdog-rocky-in-nyc-against-de-blasio.html
New York Republican mayoral
candidate Joseph Lhota, who trails Democrat Bill de Blasio by
about 40 points in the polls, compared himself to the movie hero
“Rocky” in predicting an upset victory in the last debate
before the Nov. 5 election.  “We know what happened in that match, the underdog won,”
Lhota said, referring to the fictional Philadelphia boxer and
his towering Russian nemesis in “Rocky IV,” standing a head
shorter next to de Blasio, who’s 6-foot-5. “New York loves an
underdog and quite honestly I’m that underdog.”  The two candidates used their third encounter last night to
clash over job creation. De Blasio, 52, proposed training
programs and city-backed small business loans, while Lhota, 59,
emphasized tax cuts and abatements to lure growing companies.  Lhota’s underdog description may have been an
understatement with a Quinnipiac University poll yesterday
showing de Blasio ahead 65 percent to 26 percent. Among black
voters, de Blasio leads, 90 percent to 1 percent. The  poll , with
a margin of error of plus or minus 3.6 percentage points,
involved 728 likely voters surveyed Oct. 25-29.  The racial split may reflect Lhota’s persistent attacks on
former Democratic Mayor David Dinkins, the city’s first and only
black mayor, who served from 1990 to 1994. De Blasio was a young
member of Dinkins’s staff. Dinkins was defeated for re-election
in 1993 by Republican Rudolph Giuliani. Lhota served as a top
aide to Giuliani for eight years.  Racial Split  De Blasio described Giuliani as one of the city’s most
divisive leaders. A Quinnipiac poll in August 2000, Giuliani’s
seventh year in office, showed 63 percent of white voters
approved of his performance while 63 percent of blacks didn’t.
It was one of several surveys that showed Giuliani dividing the
city along racial lines, Maurice Carroll, director of the
Hamden, Connecticut-based university’s polling institute, said
in a September interview.  Lhota contrasted Giuliani’s administration, a time when
homicides dropped by 66 percent, with Dinkins’s four years in
office, when murders hit a peak of more than 2,000 a year. Lhota
didn’t mention the totals began a downward trend while Dinkins
was in office.  “I’ll take the Giuliani years over the Dinkins years any
time,” Lhota said, describing the Dinkins administration as “a
horror.”  Although the candidates have disagreed over the police
department’s stop-and-frisk policy, both said officers needed
more training to reduce the practice so that it’s a more
effective law enforcement tool. A federal judge ruled in August
that the tactic unfairly targeted young minority men.  Ruling Appealed  Lhota has said he would pursue Mayor Michael Bloomberg’s
appeal of that ruling; de Blasio would not.  Bloomberg, 71, the founder and majority owner of Bloomberg
News parent Bloomberg LP, is legally barred from seeking a
fourth term.  The candidates differed over what it takes to be a manager,
with Lhota belittling de Blasio’s signature proposal to tax
incomes above $500,000 to pay for universal all-day pre-kindergarten and after-school programs. Lhota said the Democrat
won’t say how he would pay for the plan if state lawmakers
reject the tax increase.  “Real leaders not only have a Plan B, they have a Plan
C,” Lhota said.  De Blasio replied: “Real leaders don’t bargain against
themselves.”  Put-Downs  The debate included put-downs of each other’s resume.  “He has absolutely no experience,” Lhota said of de
Blasio, a former Brooklyn city councilman elected in 2009 to the
citywide watchdog office of public advocate. “Look at the mid-level jobs he’s had.”  De Blasio also was regional director of the U.S. Department
of Housing and Urban Development while now-Governor Andrew Cuomo
headed it during President Bill Clinton’s administration. De
Blasio also managed Hillary Clinton’s successful 2000 U.S.
Senate campaign.  Lhota was a deputy mayor to Giuliani during the Sept. 11,
2001, World Trade Center attack, and chairman of the
Metropolitan Transportation Authority, the largest U.S. transit
agency, with 66,000 workers and a $13 billion annual budget. The
system carries 8.5 million riders a day on subways, buses and
commuter railroads.  He also worked as a municipal bond banker and as an
executive for the  Madison Square Garden Co. (MSG)   ‘Don’t Understand’  “Despite your much-ballyhooed resume, you don’t understand
what life in this city is like,” de Blasio said to Lhota. He
described himself as someone who would be “on the side of
everyday New Yorkers.”  De Blasio said Lhota “clearly has made his campaign about
tax breaks for corporations and the wealthy.”  Lhota, who was born in the Bronx to a New York police
lieutenant and raised in Lindenhurst, Long Island, had the last
word when asked what was the biggest misconception voters have
of him.  “My humble beginnings and my family being in a level of
poverty,” said Lhota, who has disclosed a net worth of $13
million. “Yes, I’ve been successful in my career -- I’m the
epitome of the American Dream.” He said the message about his
modest beginnings “isn’t getting out there enough.”  He characterized de Blasio’s “Tale of Two Cities”
campaign theme, emphasizing income inequality, as divisive.
“The message about the tale of two de Blasios -- that’s not
getting out there,” Lhota said.  De Blasio, who for months trailed in a field of seven
Democrats before winning the Sept. 10 primary, said after the
debate that he knows how it feels to be an underdog.  “I’m a big Stallone fan so I actually personally relate
more to being the Rocky character,” he said with a laugh,
referring to Sylvester Stallone, who played Rocky. “I feel very
good about where we stand.”  -- Editors: Pete Young, Michael Shepard  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net 
Esme E. Deprez in New York at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  