-- Total Third-Quarter Profit Declines as Refining Margins Drop
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2013-10-31T17:16:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/total-third-quarter-profit-declines-as-refining-margins-drop.html
Total SA (FP) , Europe’s second-largest
oil producer, reported a 19 percent decline in third-quarter
profit as refining margins in Europe dropped.  Profit, excluding changes in inventories, fell to 2.72
billion euros ($3.7 billion) from 3.36 billion euros a year
earlier, the Courbevoie, France-based company said. That was in
line with the 2.73 billion-euro average estimate of nine
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The dividend remained unchanged.  Production advanced 1 percent to 2.3 million barrels of oil
equivalent a day after Total resumed output at the North Sea
Elgin platform and the Ibewa field in  Nigeria . New fields were
started in Kazakhstan and  Norway .  “The refining environment remains very difficult right
now,” Chief Financial Officer Patrick de la Chevardiere said on
a conference call. “Margins are extremely weak, we still have
an endemic problem of overcapacity” in  Europe .  Total fell as much as 2.5 percent before closing 0.1
percent higher at 45.265 euros. The shares have gained 16
percent this year.  Total has pledged to boost production to reach 2.6 million
barrels of oil equivalent a day in 2015 and about 3 million
barrels a day two years later. The French company has also
promised to explore more aggressively for new deposits and start
up almost twice the number of projects in the next three years
than the previous three.  “The group is improving the outlook for sustainable
post-2017 production growth under terms consistent with its
strict return criteria while confirming its commitment to reduce
near-term investment,” Chief Executive Officer Christophe de Margerie said in the statement.  Raise Payout  Total will pay an interim dividend of 59 euro cents a
share, according to today’s statement. The explorer failed to
raise the payout this quarter as some asset sales haven’t yet
been completed, de la Chevardiere said. Total “has room” to do
so in the future.  Benchmark Brent crude oil prices averaged $109.65 a barrel
in the third quarter, just 23 cents more than the same period
last year. Total’s refining margin, a generic measure of
profitability, shrank to the lowest level in almost five years
to $10.60 a metric ton compared with $51 a ton a year earlier,
according to an Oct. 15 posting on its website.  Total wrote down the value of U.S. assets for about $500
million due to a lower natural gas prices and another $200
million for Syrian assets that the company “has little chance
of recovering,” according to de la Chevardiere.  Kashagan in  Kazakhstan , the world’s biggest crude discovery
in 40 years, produced its first oil in September before being
shut due to problems with leaks. Total has a 16.81 percent
stake.  Platform Shut  The Elgin platform was shut for almost a year following a
natural-gas leak in March 2012. Output resumed March 9 at about
half capacity, and will return to prior levels by 2015 with the
addition of new wells.  De Margerie had promised output growth of 2 percent to 3
percent this year, a target de la Chevardiere declined to
reiterate today.  “We are expecting an increase in 2013,” he said, adding
that the magnitude will depend on Kashagan and  Angola  liquefied
natural gas output.  The drop in third-quarter results was due in part to a 42
percent fall in adjusted net operating income from refining and
chemicals as well as an increase in spending on exploration.  New Deposits  Total spent $400 million more in the most recent quarter on
exploration compared with the same period last year due to a
more “aggressive” push to uncover new deposits, de la
Chevardiere said. “We haven’t yet found the giant field we are
looking for.”  Total and partners won an auction earlier this month for
the Libra field,  Brazil ’s biggest crude discovery holding that
has as much as 12 billion barrels of recoverable resources.  “The bulk of the investment and production will come after
2020 when we expect the Libra field to be an important part of
sustaining our future production growth,” de la Chevardiere
said.  As Total develops so-called mega-projects, de Margerie is
also carrying out a series of asset sales to help pay for them.  About $15 billion of assets will have been sold by the end
of the year as part of a target for $15 billion to $20 billion
from 2012 to 2014, de la Chevardiere said today. The sale of a
stake in the offshore Nigerian Usan field along with one in its
Congo operations should be completed by the end of the year for
a total of $3.5 billion.  He also confirmed a pledge that spending will peak this
year. Total expects capital expenditure to fall to $24 billion
to $25 billion in 2015 to 2017 compared with $28 billion to $29
billion this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  