-- Mozambicans Protest in Capital Against Kidnappings
-- B y   W i l l i a m   F e l i m a o   a n d   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2013-10-31T11:12:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/mozambicans-protest-in-capital-against-kidnappings.html
More than 2,000 demonstrators
marched in  Mozambique ’s capital, Maputo, to protest against a
wave of kidnappings and armed clashes between government forces
and former rebels in central Sofala province.  The rally shut stores and halted traffic in a number of
city center streets.  “We are here to say that’s enough,” Alice Mapote,
president of Mozambique’s Human Rights League, told a crowd
today at the city’s Independence Park. “We need peace and
stability.”  Six people, including a member of an elite police unit that
protects President Armando Guebuza and two policemen, were
jailed for 16 years on Oct. 28 for their role in abductions. The
next day the police criminal investigations director in Maputo,
Januario Cumbana, was fired. Fighting between Mozambique’s army
and militia loyal to the opposition Mozambique National
Resistance party, or Renamo, has also stoked public outrage.  “More than 20 people were kidnapped in two years,” Momed
Ibrahim, a member of Maputo’s Muslim community, told the
protestors. “Four people are still in those bandits’ hands and
we feel that we are unprotected.”  Fifty-eight people died in clashes between government
forces and Renamo in Maringue in Sofala this week, according to
a military official who asked not to be identified because the
death toll hasn’t been released.  Both the government and Renamo said they couldn’t confirm
any casualties.  Transportation Attacks  The army attacked Renamo’s main base on Oct. 21 after a
series of attacks on public transportation and a government arms
depot this year led to the temporary closure of rail lines used
by  Rio Tinto Plc (RIO)  and  Vale SA (VALE5)  to export coal. Renamo said a peace
agreement signed in 1992 was over following the attack on its
headquarters.  “We need our sons and brothers back from that unnecessary
war in Sofala,” the demonstrators in Maputo sang today. “We
want it to end immediately.”  Renamo, once backed by the white-minority governments of
Rhodesia, which is now  Zimbabwe , and  South Africa , fought a 17-year civil war against the Front for the Liberation of
Mozambique, or Frelimo. It has served as the main opposition
party for two decades. The clashes are the worst since the
signing of the peace agreement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
William Felimao in Johannesburg at 
 wfelimao@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  