-- Pakistan Says No Civilians Killed by U.S. Drones Since 2011
-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 2013-10-31T08:58:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/pakistan-says-no-civilians-killed-by-u-s-drones-since-2011.html
U.S. drones haven’t killed a
civilian in Pakistan since 2011, according to data from Prime
Minister Nawaz Sharif’s government that runs counter to other
tallies showing more deaths of innocent bystanders.  Civilians have accounted for 3 percent of the 2,227 people
killed in drone strikes since the beginning of 2008, according
to  data  from Pakistan’s  ministry of defense  released in
parliament yesterday that did not specify exact dates. None have
died since 35 were killed in 2011, it showed, supporting
President  Barack Obama ’s assertion that the program eliminates
militants while limiting civilian casualties.  Sharif, who won a May election after campaigning to end the
strikes, called for the U.S. to stop using drones in Pakistan
during a meeting with Obama at the White House last week. His
government condemned a U.S. strike today in the mountainous
northeast region near the Afghanistan border that killed three
suspected militants, according to  Dawn newspaper .  “There is an across-the-board consensus in Pakistan that
these drone strikes must end,” Pakistan’s foreign ministry said
in a statement today. “Drone strikes are counter-productive,
entail loss of innocent civilian lives and have human rights and
humanitarian implications.”  Prior to today’s attack, strikes in Pakistan’s tribal areas
fell to 14 this year after peaking at 115 in 2010, the defense
ministry’s data showed. A total of 67 civilians were killed in
the strikes, according to the data provided in response to a
question from a lawmaker.  Death Tallies  The Long War Journal , which tracks drone strikes based on
media reports, says 15 civilians have died since the beginning
of 2012. Altogether 133 have been killed since 2008, accounting
for 5 percent of deaths from the attacks, it said.  The New America Foundation, a U.S. based policy research
group,  found  that 181 civilians were killed by drones in that
time, making up at least 7 percent of deaths. It said five
civilians died in 2012 and four this year.  Ben Emmerson, a United Nations envoy, called last week for
countries to release data on civilian casualties from drone
strikes. The U.S. has failed to reveal data on civilian
casualties through drone strikes, as well as its methodology for
evaluating them, according to a Sept. 18  UN report .  Pakistan’s government confirmed to the UN earlier this year
that drone strikes killed at least 400 civilians since 2004,
accounting for 18 percent of deaths in that time, the report
said. Another 200 people were regarded as “probable non-combatants,” it said, without breaking down the years in which
the deaths occurred.  Grandmother Killed  U.S. drone strikes in Pakistan are launched sometimes
without legal justification and may amount to war crimes,
London-based human rights group  Amnesty International  said in an
Oct. 22 report. The Obama administration should fully disclose
the facts and legal basis for each drone strike and investigate
any “potentially unlawfully killings,” it said.  Mamana Bibi, a 68-year-old grandmother, was killed by a
missile in October 2012 as she picked vegetables, Amnesty
International said in the report, which reviewed 45 known drone
strikes in  Pakistan  between January 2012 and August 2013.
Another 18 laborers were killed in a July 2012 strike, including
a 14-year-old boy, it said.  The drone program was started under President George W. Bush and expanded by Obama’s administration to thwart al-Qaeda’s
operations. The attacks have killed militants belonging to al-Qaeda, Taliban and allied groups.  Obama “would strongly disagree” that the U.S. has acted
outside of international law, White House spokesman Jay Carney
said Oct. 22. He cited a May speech by Obama in which the
president said the U.S. has a process to ensure targets are
selected carefully to avoid civilian casualties.  “By narrowly targeting our action against those who want
to kill us and not the people they hide among, we are choosing
the course of action least likely to result in the loss of
innocent life,” Carney said. “U.S. counter-terrorism
operations are precise, they are lawful and they are
effective.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Ten Kate at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net  