-- Panasonic Doubles Forecast Amid Shift to Auto-Related Businesses
-- B y   G r a c e   H u a n g   a n d   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2013-10-31T10:57:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/panasonic-doubles-profit-forecast-on-weak-yen-battery-sales.html
Panasonic Corp. (6752)  doubled its full-year profit forecast after benefiting from a weak yen and
boosting battery sales, including winning a contract to supply
Tesla Motors Inc.  Net income  will probably total 100 billion yen ($1 billion)
in the year ending in March 2014, the Osaka-based company said
in a statement today. That compares with its July projection of
50 billion yen and the 68.9 billion yen average of 15 analysts’
 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  The biggest supplier of batteries for electric cars today
reported first-half operating profit rose 68 percent as
President Kazuhiro Tsuga speeds up reform by halting plasma TV
production, suspending some smartphone operations and partnering
with KKR & Co. in its health-care business. The Japanese
electronics maker’s contract to supply cells to Tesla Motors is
estimated to generate $7 billion in revenue over four years.  “It’s wise now for Panasonic to keep its head down, to
focus on reform while demand for its  consumer goods  remain
sluggish,” said Masahiko Ishino, an analyst at Advanced
Research Japan Co.  Panasonic today said it’s paying $460 million to buy Viko,
an Istanbul, Turkey-based maker of wiring devices, miniature
circuit breaker boxes, smart meters and building automation
systems. The company has said it aims to boost sales from its
housing-related businesses to 2 trillion yen by 2018 from 1.1
trillion for the year ended March.  Growing Sales  “We are expecting growing sales from our automotive-related and housing-related businesses, along with the weaker
yen,” Panasonic said in its earnings statement today.  The effect of a stronger dollar, which makes Japanese
exports more competitive, was the most in 17 years in the three
months through September, when the U.S. currency averaged 99.14
yen, 26 percent stronger than a year earlier. The yen will
probably trade at 102 to the dollar in the three months through
March, according to the average of analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  Panasonic  shares  traded in  Frankfurt  rose 0.8 percent as of
11:45 a.m. in Frankfurt. The Tokyo-traded stock  climbed  3.8
percent to close at 985 before the announcement. The stock has
 surged  89 percent this year, compared with a 39 percent gain for
the broader Topix index.  Panasonic is considering moving workers from personal
computer and mobile-phone divisions into units developing
rechargeable batteries for cars and industrial uses, Megumi
Kitagawa, a company spokeswoman, said by phone today.  Supplying Tesla  Another 18 billion yen will be invested in the business
that makes rechargeable batteries for cars, company President
 Kazuhiro Tsuga  said at a briefing today. That’s in addition to
the 13 billion yen announced earlier this year.  The company will supply 2 billion lithium-ion battery cells
to  Palo Alto , California-based Tesla in the four years through
2017, Osaka-based company Panasonic said in a statement
yesterday.  The contract to supply Model S and Model X vehicles may add
about $7 billion in sales and cement Panasonic’s position as the
largest supplier of batteries for electric cars, said Ali Izadi-Najafabadi, a Bloomberg New Energy Finance analyst.  The maker of Viera televisions today reported  net income  of
169 billion yen in the six months ended September, compared with
a loss of 685 billion yen a year ago. Operating profit rose to
146 billion yen from 87 billion yen and sales increased 1.9
percent to 3.7 trillion yen.  Net income for the fiscal second quarter was 61.5 billion
yen, compared with the 4.4 billion yen average of three
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The profit number was
derived from the half-year results.  Panasonic will end production of plasma displays by the end
of the year and will exit the business by March, it said in its
earnings statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Grace Huang in Tokyo at 
 xhuang66@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  