-- Pandora Jumps After Jewelry Maker Increases Full-Year Forecasts
-- B y   K a t a r i n a   G u s t a f s s o n
-- 2013-10-31T11:02:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/pandora-jumps-after-jewelry-maker-increases-full-year-forecasts.html
Pandora A/S, (PNDORA)  the Danish jeweler
known for charm bracelets, gained the most in more than a month
in Copenhagen after strong sales of new products led the company
to raise its full-year forecasts for revenue and profitability.  The  shares,  which before today had already doubled since
the start of the year, advanced as much as 4.2 percent, the
steepest  intraday increase  since Sept. 10.  Pandora, based in Glostrup,  Denmark , said revenue rose in
all major regions during the first nine months of the year. The
jewelry maker, which suffered a collapse in demand in the summer
of 2011, has turned a page this year after introducing new
products more frequently. It now issues new collections -- such
as the fall Enchanted Forest charms featuring birds, leaves and
owls -- seven times a year, up from twice previously.  “The autumn collection has been well received,” Nordea
Bank AB analysts said in a note, adding that the upgrade to
sales and profitability  forecasts  appears conservative.  Pandora now predicts 2013 revenue of approximately 8.6
billion kroner ($1.6 billion), up from a previous forecast of 8
billion kroner. The jewelry maker estimates its margin on
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
will be about 30 percent, having previously anticipated a  margin 
of about 27 percent.  Pandora, which is due to report third-quarter earnings Nov.
12, said revenue for the three months ended Sept. 30 was 2.3
billion kroner, up 26 percent from a year earlier, helped by
strong sales of new products and growth in new markets. The
company expects to open around 195 Pandora-branded concept
stores this year, up from a previous forecast of 175.  The shares were up 9.9 kroner, or 4 percent, at 259 kroner
as of 11:25 a.m. in Copenhagen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarina Gustafsson in Stockholm at 
 kgustafsson@bloomberg.net  