-- Pentagon’s Five-Year Plan Months Away, Comptroller Says
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-10-31T18:02:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/pentagon-s-five-year-plan-months-away-comptroller-says.html
The Pentagon’s five-year spending
plan, a blueprint awaited by contractors in a time of  budget
cuts , probably won’t be produced until late December, according
to the Defense Department’s comptroller.  “Where we end up will depend” on decisions President
 Barack Obama  and the White House budget office “will probably
make in December,” when “they tell us what dollars we will
have available,” Pentagon Comptroller Robert Hale said in an
interview. “I don’t know what they’ll say. They don’t know what
they’ll say yet.”  The plan for the five years starting Oct. 1, 2014, depends
in part on whether congressional budget talks that began this
week provide relief from about $50 billion a year of reductions
from planned spending under the automatic cuts called
sequestration. If not, Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel said in
July, the Pentagon will have to choose between a “much
smaller” force or a decade-long “modernization holiday” that
would affect major weapons systems.  “Hale is saying that budget uncertainty could persist well
into next year,” said Kevin Brancato, a defense analyst at
Bloomberg Government. “Defense contractors that have been
delaying acquisitions and forgoing investments will have to wait
even longer.”  While Hale said deep cuts would require “a fair number of
changes in a variety of areas,” he said “I’m going to stop
short of saying whether you’ll see major cancellations” because
that decision hasn’t been made.  Hale said the Pentagon’s costliest weapons system, the
$391.2 billion program to develop and build  Lockheed Martin
Corp. (LMT) ’s F-35 fighter, wouldn’t escape scrutiny for potential
cuts.  “It’s an important program and we want to be darn sure we
don’t damage the program, so we’ll work hard to avoid” that,
“but yeah, we’re going to have to consider it,” Hale said,
even as the Pentagon considers increasing annual production of
the F-35 starting in fiscal 2015.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  