-- Philippine Peso Falls on Fed Statement; Bonds Rise in October
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2013-10-31T03:19:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/philippine-peso-falls-on-fed-statement-bonds-rise-in-october.html
The Philippine peso dropped by the
most this month on speculation the  Federal Reserve  will start
scaling back monetary stimulus sooner than previously forecast.  The U.S. Federal Open Market Committee maintained its $85
billion in monthly bond purchases yesterday, saying it needs to
see more evidence that the economy is improving, while noting
signs of “underlying strength.” The odds of the Fed tapering
in January rose to 45 percent from 25 percent before yesterday’s
statement, Steve Englander, a strategist at Citigroup Inc.,
wrote in a research note. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg Oct.
17-18 predicted the Fed would begin paring stimulus in March.  “The less dovish FOMC statement supports some recovery in
the  U.S. dollar ,” said Joey Cuyegkeng, an economist in Manila
at ING Groep NV. “Structural inflows will eventually support
the peso,” he said, referring to remittances from overseas
workers and dollar revenues from the outsourcing industry.  The peso weakened 0.4 percent to 43.272 per dollar as of
11:06 a.m. in  Manila , prices from Tullett Prebon Plc show. That
was the lowest level since Oct. 10 and the biggest loss since
Sept. 30. It gained 0.6 percent this month, adding to
September’s 2.5 percent rally. Markets are closed tomorrow for a
public holiday.  One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves
in the  exchange rate  used to price options, increased eight
basis points, or 0.08 percentage point, to 5.65 percent today.
The gauge fell 42 basis points this month.  The Fed’s decision “prolongs the waiting game for the
inevitable,” Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas Governor Amando
Tetangco said in a mobile-phone message today.  Bonds Rally  Money sent home by Filipinos working overseas, funds that
account for about 10 percent of the economy, climbed 5.9 percent
this year, exceeding the central bank’s 5 percent target,
official data show.  Revenue from the  information technology  and business-process outsourcing industry will reach $16 billion by the end
of 2013 based on the current growth rate of 19 percent, the IT
and Business Processing Association of the  Philippines  said on
its website earlier this month.  Bonds climbed in October. The yield on the government’s
2.125 percent notes due May 2018 dropped 45 basis points to 2.65
percent, the biggest decline since July, according to prices
from Tradition Financial Services. The rate rose two basis
points today.  The Philippines sovereign debt returned 1.7 percent in
October, the third-best performance among 10 Asian local-currency indexes compiled by HSBC Holdings Plc, after Indonesia
and  India .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  