-- Poland Ruling Party Suspends Lawmakers in Vote-Buying Scandal
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2013-10-31T10:21:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/poland-ruling-party-suspends-lawmakers-in-vote-buying-scandal.html
Poland’s ruling  Civic Platform ,
which is struggling to stem falling popularity, suspended two
lawmakers after allegations of vote-buying at a regional
convention.  Norbert Wojnarowski and Michal Jaros, along with three
local party officials, will be suspended for three months,
according to a statement posted yesterday on Civic Platform’s
 website  after leaders held an unscheduled meeting that ended
shortly before midnight.  “We have to care about standards when it comes to what we
have to offer Poles,” Andrzej Halicki, who leads Civic Platform
in the Mazovia region, told broadcaster TVN24 today. “Our
voters expect it and the internal discussion was finished
yesterday. We’re still a team.”  Recordings  posted yesterday on Newsweek Polska’s website
showed two Platform lawmakers promising to help party officials
in Lower Silesia find jobs at state-owned companies in return
for backing Jacek Protasiewicz’s bid for that region’s party
chairmanship. Protasiewicz unexpectedly unseated incumbent
Grzegorz Schetyna by a 205-194 vote on Oct. 26.  Civic Platform, whose coalition has a two-seat majority in
parliament, is trying to draw a line under the scandal as it
lags behind the opposition in opinion polls. Poland could face
early elections if the government is drawn into internal
squabbles within the party, according to spokesman Pawel Gras.  Prime Minister Donald Tusk, who in 2011 became the first
Polish premier to win re-election since the fall of communism,
has promised a “new opening” for his government in late
November, including changes in his cabinet.  The government has been on the defensive since proposing to
cancel bonds held by private pension funds, a debt-cutting
measure that’s angered urban voters who backed Tusk’s party in
2005, 2007 and 2011. Some deputies left the party in protest at
planned pension overhaul, which still needs to win parliamentary
support before the end of the year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  