-- Police Chief Tackles Trust Deficit as Graft Rife: Southeast Asia
-- B y   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a
-- 2013-10-31T22:57:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/police-chief-tackles-trust-deficit-as-graft-rife-southeast-asia.html
Relations between  Indonesia ’s police
and its corruption fighters have been so marred by acrimony that
dozens of officers once barged into the anti-graft agency to try
and arrest an agent investigating the chief traffic cop.  Now the new police chief, Sutarman, promises to work with
the Corruption Eradication Commission, or KPK, to tackle graft
within his force of almost 400,000, described as the nation’s
most corrupt institution by  Transparency International .
Sutarman, 56, who started work on Oct. 28, said police can’t
fight corruption alone. “Given that it’s massive in our society
we must deal with this together,” he said after being sworn in.  Just seven weeks ago, former traffic police chief Djoko
Susilo was sentenced to 10 years in jail after being found
guilty of colluding to inflate the budget of a driving simulator
procurement project, according to the Jakarta Post. In October
2012, policemen tried to arrest an agent investigating Susilo at
the KPK’s office and ordered 20 officers seconded to the agency
to return to the force in protest. Sutarman felt the police
should oversee the case, the Post reported.  Sutarman, who like many people in Indonesia goes by one
name, faces an uphill task to boost trust in the police amid a
broader culture of graft that undermines the appeal of  Southeast
Asia ’s biggest economy as an investment destination. Indonesia
ranked 118 among 176 countries on  Transparency International ’s
2012 corruption perceptions index.  “We are very pessimistic,” said Neta S. Pane, chairman of
Indonesia Police Watch, a Jakarta-based non-government
organization. “The relationship with the KPK will remain rocky
even though it may not be as tense as before, as Sutarman will
be concerned about a public backlash.”  System Stacked  The police force is “riddled” with corruption and the
system stacked against officers staying clean, given there are
often payments required to get into the force and then to secure
a promotion, according to Keith Loveard, head of risk analysis
at Jakarta-based security company Concord Consulting.  Sutarman replaced Timur Pradopo, after serving as the
police force’s chief of investigations. He graduated from the
police academy in 1981 and in 2000 served as adjutant, or
assistant, to then-president Abdurrahman Wahid.  “We will fix internally the things the public has been
demanding us to do,” Sutarman told reporters last week. Reports
from the police’s general supervision inspectorate “and
complaints from the public will be followed up on so that the
public is being served.”  He was the head of the police detective unit when the KPK
raid occurred, according to the police force website. He was
also in the role in July 2012 when KPK officials were
temporarily barred from leaving a police office where they were
searching for documents related to the case against Susilo.  KPK Standoff  Sutarman was cited as saying by the Jakarta Post in August
2012 that he would not hand over to the KPK four suspects that
the police detained in relation to the case.  The standoff between the two organizations ended only when
President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono intervened. “The case should
be handled by one institution alone and that is the KPK,”
Yudhoyono told reporters that October. Coordination between the
police and KPK “isn’t working well,” he added.  “There was indeed a dispute concerning the handling of the
driving simulator case which made our relationship with the
police look bad, but that’s over,” Johan Budi, a KPK spokesman,
said by phone yesterday. “I’m optimistic the relationship
between the police and KPK will improve.”  Police are providing the KPK with investigators and this
has been working well, Budi said.  Presidential Election  Indonesia Police Watch’s Pane said Sutarman reaches
 retirement age  in 23 months, which further raises questions over
his appointment, coming ahead of next year’s presidential
election, which Yudhoyono cannot contest, having served two
terms. “The police has strong discretion in the legal
process,” Pane said. “This can be used by the ones in power.”  Boy Rafli Amar, the national police spokesman, didn’t
answer four calls to his mobile phone.  To improve its  corruption standing  Indonesia must boost the
independence of the prosecutors’ office, the police and courts
in handling graft cases while stopping any efforts to weaken the
KPK, Transparency International said in its 2012 report.  “It takes courage to clean up this organization,” said
Bambang Widodo Umar, a police observer who teaches at the
University of Indonesia. “Furthermore the structure and
organization and how it’s divided and the working relations
still provide opportunities to do corruption.”  Poorly Paid  Police earn a  minimum base salary  of 1.39 million rupiah
($123) a month for a new recruit and a maximum of 5.03 million
rupiah a month for a police general with 32 years in service,
according to government regulations. That compares with workers’
regional minimum  monthly  wage of 2.2 million rupiah set by the
Jakarta administration.  In  Thailand , police salaries start at about 6,000 baht
($192) a month and rise to as much as 70,000 baht, excluding
allowances for expenses that are based on an officer’s rank,
Deputy Police spokesman Anucha Romyanan said yesterday.  The police can use enforcement of rules as an opportunity
to bolster their salary. Motorist Adhika Ganesha recently drove
his car into a lane reserved for buses in the capital, an
offense incurring a fine of one million rupiah, and was stopped
by a police officer only to negotiate and pay 20,000 rupiah, the
Jakarta Post reported yesterday.  At a higher level, a Papua-based policeman allegedly made
almost $1 million in money transfers to senior police officials
to protect illegal logging and fuel smuggling businesses, an
investigation by  Indonesia Police Watch  found.  “It is very difficult to see how any leader, well-intentioned or otherwise, can turn around and say this has to
stop,” Concord’s Loveard said by e-mail. “Efforts to reform
the police will take a lot of time but it is essential that
Sutarman does make a start on this process.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  