-- Public Pension Funds Need to Show the Money
-- B y   D a v i d   C r a n e
-- 2013-10-31T20:28:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/public-pension-funds-need-to-show-the-money.html
Syndicated columnist David Sirota is
on a mission to prevent public pension funds from investing in
“alternative assets” such as private-equity and hedge funds.  In Salon this month, Sirota  criticized  these investments as
“a transfer of retirement income to Wall Street.” In another
column responding to  a piece I wrote  defending pension-fund
investment in such alternatives, he characterized the practice
as “con artistry.”  He’s aiming at a big target. For more than a decade, public
pension funds have been increasingly seeking returns from
 alternative investments . One of the earliest and biggest
investors is the California State Teachers’ Retirement System,
the second-largest U.S. pension fund at $170 billion in assets.
According to the Calstrs website, it has committed $40 billion
to private-equity managers.  Calstrs portrays this strategy as highly successful.
According to the  pension fund’s website , its private-equity
portfolio has generated a net return of 11.26 percent a year,
far surpassing its 7.5 percent objective. Sirota, however,
doesn’t trust those numbers.  “Alternative investments are shrouded in secrecy, thus
calling into question such vague claims of success,” he  wrote 
at Nsfwcorp.com.  “The scattered bits of crystal clear evidence we do have
about ‘alternative investments’ show that while they have been a
boon for Wall Street, they can be a financial disaster for
retirees,” he added. “In  Pennsylvania , for instance, the state
pension’s investment in hedge funds forces retirees to pay a
whopping $770 million in fees every single year.”  ‘Alternatives Miracle’  Calstrs appears to have paid even more. While it says its
net return after fees has been 11.26 percent a year, it
separately reports a higher, and presumably gross, return before
fees of 13.57 percent a year, a difference of 2.3 percent. That would
make sense, because private-equity funds often charge an annual
fee of 1 percent plus as much as 20 percent of profit. On $40
billion, that 2.3 percent translates into fees of more than $900
million a year.  Whatever the exact magnitude of the fees, Sirota is right
that alternative investments are highly lucrative for  Wall
Street  and very expensive for Calstrs. So why is the pension
fund -- and its  highly regarded  management team, led by Chief
Investment Officer Christopher Ailman -- directing so much money
to private equity?  Calstrs’s answer probably would be that, net of fees, it
earns more through these investments. This eliminates the need
to draw as much money from school districts and the state to
meet pension promises. Because defined-benefit pension plans
such as those administered by Calstrs provide a guaranteed
pension to employees, employers -- school districts, local and
state governments -- must make up the difference whenever a
pension fund falls short of its expected rate of return.  In Calstrs’s case, earning more from its private-equity
portfolio protects employers from having to raid their hard-pressed budgets. So while Wall Street does make a lot of money
from Calstrs’s investments, schools and governments save even
more.  But what if Sirota is right and Calstrs hasn’t really been
earning such wonderful returns net of the fees it pays
investment managers? Sirota cites a  report  that states “the
bulk of U.S. state pension funds praying for an alternatives
miracle, buying the hedge fund myth, are doling out huge fees
and getting mediocre returns.” He pointed to another report
that showed that “had pensions steered clear of Wall Street’s
most risky investment schemes in recent years and simply
invested in Treasury bonds, ‘their assets would be more than
$850 billion greater than they are today.’”  Who’s right, Calstrs or Sirota?  ‘Safer Investments’  Sirota argues there is “good reason to consider taking
retiree money out of ‘alternative investments’ and putting it
into safer investments -- the kind which are less risky and
don’t incur Wall Street fees.” But he fails to explain how
Calstrs would make up the higher yields it says it’s getting
that are keeping pension costs lower for school districts and
governments. But if Sirota is right, those yields may not be
real.  We need an answer, because the implications for state and
local budgets are enormous. Calstrs has already asked
 California ’s legislature for a $240 billion, 30-year cash
infusion to cover its existing  unfunded liability . If the
pension fund also has to exit private equity, its demands for
cash could grow. That would mean even less money for classrooms,
along with tax and fee increases.  My money is on Calstrs (both figuratively and literally,
because I’m a California taxpayer), but ultimately we need the
principals to address this matter directly. Calstrs should hold
a public session about its alternative investments. Sirota
should attend and make his case.  ( David Crane , a former financial-services executive, is a
lecturer at  Stanford University  and president of Govern for
California, a nonpartisan government-reform group. He was an
economic adviser to California Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger 
from 2004 to 2011. Follow him on  Twitter .)  To contact the writer of this article:
David Crane in  San Francisco  at  davidgcrane@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 