-- ‘Boston Strong’ Red Sox Win Third World Series Title Since 2004
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2013-10-31T06:10:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/red-sox-beat-cardinals-6-1-for-3rd-world-series-title-since-2004.html
Six months after the  Boston Marathon
bombings , the  Red Sox  completed a championship baseball season
that drew inspiration from the city’s resilient reaction to the
tragedy less than a mile from Fenway Park.  The Red Sox won their third World Series in the last decade
with a 6-1 defeat last night of the  St. Louis Cardinals ,
wrapping up the title at home for the first time in 95 years.  It capped a season in which “Boston Strong” became the
city’s and the team’s answer to the bombings that killed three
people and injured 260 others in the first deadly terrorist
attack in the U.S. since Sept. 11, 2001.  “I think our players have a certain maturity that
compelled them to participate in the crisis that was facing this
community and to help the healing process,” Red Sox President
Larry Lucchino said in a clubhouse interview.  It was the eighth  World Series  title for the Red Sox, who
finished last in the American League East division in 2012. They
joined the 1991 Minnesota Twins as the only teams to win the
World Series a season after a last-place finish.  “It’s difficult to win, there are 30 teams determined to
do what we did this year,” team principal owner  John Henry  told
reporters. “Every season is different. In this case I think it
was sheer force of will.”  Shane Victorino  had a three-run double for the Red Sox, who
also won in 2004 and 2007 after an 86-year title drought, and
 John Lackey  became the first starting pitcher in Major League
Baseball history to win a World Series clincher for two
different teams.  David Ortiz  was selected as the series’ Most Valuable
Player after hitting .688. He walked four times last night in
Game 6 and ended up reaching base 19 times in 25 plate
appearances in the series.  Ticket Prices  Boston won the best-of-seven series four games to two. The
Red Sox, the only team to win the World Series three times so
far in the 21st century, had last clinched a title at home in
1918 with a 2-1 win against the Chicago Cubs in Game 6.  Ticket prices for last night’s game averaged $2,056.
Secondary market ticket aggregator TiqIQ said that made it the
most expensive baseball game in the company’s four-year history.  Victorino’s bases-clearing double in the third inning went
off the Green Monster left-field wall at Fenway Park. Boston
scored three more runs in the fourth as Stephen Drew hit a solo
home run and  Mike Napoli  and Victorino added run-scoring singles
to make it 6-0.  ‘Very Special’  “This was something very special to give back to the
people of Boston,” Napoli told reporters.  Carlos Beltran  drove in St. Louis’ only run with a seventh-inning single.  Lackey, who scattered nine hits while allowing one run in 6
2/3 innings last night, was a rookie when he won Game 7 of the
2002 World Series for the Anaheim Angels against the  San
Francisco Giants .  All six Boston runs came off Cardinals starter Michael Wacha, a rookie who had won all four of his previous starts this
postseason while allowing three runs in 27 innings.  “I didn’t want to win it for myself,” Wacha told
reporters. “I wanted to win it for these guys in this clubhouse
who have been working their tail off all year. Whenever I have a
poor outing like that, it hurts me even worse.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rob Gloster in  San Francisco  at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  