-- Senate Truce on Nominees Ends as Republicans Block Picks
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y   a n d   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2013-11-01T15:08:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/republicans-reignite-filibuster-fight-by-blocking-picks.html
A U.S. Senate Republican move to
block two presidential nominees has revived calls by Democrats
for new rules that would make it almost impossible to thwart
forthcoming picks.  A three-month bipartisan truce over nominees broke down
yesterday when Republicans opposed two of President Barack Obama’s candidates, Representative Mel Watt to head the Federal
Housing Finance Agency and Patricia Millett for a spot on a
federal court in Washington, D.C.  “This is a war on the other two branches of government and
their ability to do the jobs the American people need them to
do,” Oregon Senator Jeff Merkley, a Democrat, said in statement
after the nominees were blocked. “The Senate rules must
change.”  Watt’s nomination was in doubt after it failed to advance
yesterday, as Republicans questioned his qualifications to be
the chief regulator of government-chartered mortgage companies
 Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and  Freddie Mac . Watt said today in an e-mail that he
does “not plan to withdraw as a nominee.”  Two Republicans offered a compromise that would put Millett
on the bench and cap the size of the U.S. Court of Appeals for
the District of Columbia. Under the plan, Obama’s two other
nominees for the court wouldn’t be approved.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  has in the past vowed to
change rules that require 60 votes to move to a nomination, and
instead wants to require a simple majority of 51 votes to
proceed.  ‘Unprecedented Obstructionism’  He stopped short of calling for a rules change now, saying,
“Something has to change and I hope we can make the changes
necessary through cooperation.”  The Nevada Democrat said in a statement yesterday that
Republicans should end their “continued run of unprecedented
obstructionism.”  Reid’s move would change longstanding Senate practice and
led Republican leaders to accuse him of trying to strong-arm
Obama’s nominees through the chamber. The majority leader told
reporters he wouldn’t decide on whether to seek the rule change
until after trying to advance the other two appellate judge
nominees.  Speaking of Millett, Minority Leader Mitch McConnell
yesterday said Obama is pushing to add judges to the appeals
court because he and congressional Democrats “don’t want any
meaningful check on the president.”  Agency Rule-making  The Republican-led U.S. House provides such a check, said
the Kentucky Republican, “but the administration can circumvent
that with aggressive agency rule-making” if the D.C. Circuit
“allows it to do so,” McConnell said.  Meanwhile, Federal Reserve Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen ’s
nomination to lead the central bank isn’t seen as getting
tangled up in the dispute over other presidential appointments,
said  Jaret Seiberg , a senior policy analyst with Guggenheim
Securities LLC’s Washington Research Group.  “The chairman of the central bank is an entirely different
political fight,” Seiberg said in a telephone interview. “If
it got truly ugly, there could be a risk but it would have to be
so dire that the Senate stops doing business.”  Kentucky Senator  Rand Paul , a Republican who vowed to hold
up Yellen’s nomination to get a vote on legislation that would
require a public audit of the Fed, said yesterday he expects
that Yellen will be confirmed.  Reid’s Votes  Asked during an interview for Bloomberg Television’s
“Political Capital with  Al Hunt ” airing this weekend if Reid
had the votes for Yellen’s confirmation, Paul said, “in all
likelihood, yes.”  New York’s  Charles Schumer , the Senate’s No. 3 Democrat,
said it was too soon to say whether the Republicans’ blocking of
Watt and Millett would propel the Senate toward another
confrontation over nominees.  “Let’s see what happens with the remaining judges,”
Schumer said of two other nominees to a Washington appeals
court.  Before the votes,  Dick Durbin , the No. 2 Senate Democrat,
told reporters that “there comes a tipping point” if
Republicans push too hard.  A July deal cleared the way for a series of confirmations,
including those of Gina McCarthy as Environmental Protection
Agency administrator and Thomas E. Perez as U.S. labor
secretary.  170 Years  The nomination of Watt, a North Carolina Democrat, failed
to advance on a 56-42 vote, four shy of the 60 needed to move to
a debate and floor vote. According to the Senate Library, the
last time the Senate didn’t confirm a sitting member of Congress
for a major executive-branch post was in 1843.  Republicans have criticized Watt’s past support for  Fannie
Mae  and Freddie Mac and his qualifications for the job. Watt, a
lawyer, has served in Congress since 1993.  Less than an hour after blocking Watt, the Senate failed to
advance the nomination of Washington lawyer Millett, the first
of Obama’s three nominations to vacancies on the U.S. Court of
Appeals for the D.C. Circuit. Her nomination fell five votes shy
of the 60 needed.  Vice President  Joe Biden , who presided over the Senate
during the Watt vote, said a rules change is “worth
considering” because “it’s time for some common sense on
confirmations.”  Court Workload  Republicans said they opposed Millett because there wasn’t
enough work for more judges on the court. They didn’t dispute
her professional qualifications that include arguing 32 U.S.
Supreme Court cases.  Instead, they contended that her nomination was part of
Obama’s plan to “pack” the court with judges more likely to
uphold rules proposed by the Environmental Protection Agency and
other regulatory agencies.  The bipartisan deal on nominations worked out in July also
allowed for Senate votes to confirm  Richard Cordray  to head the
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and cleared the way for
Obama to fill vacancies that had crippled the operation of the
National Labor Relations Board.  Arizona Republican  John McCain , who helped broker the July
deal, yesterday voted against advancing both nominations.  Democrats rejected the Republican argument about the
court’s workload, saying it was concocted for partisan reasons
to prevent Obama from putting more judges on the court.  Three Nominees  Only one judge nominated by Obama sits on the court, Sri Srinivasan. He was confirmed unanimously in May. Several weeks
later, Obama nominated Millett, Georgetown University law
professor Nina Pillard and Robert Wilkins, a federal trial-court
judge in Washington.  Millett was nominated to fill a seat held by  John Roberts ,
who became the Supreme Court’s chief justice in 2005, two years
after he was confirmed to the appellate court. The seat has been
vacant since then.  During the presidency of  George W. Bush , Senate Republicans
confirmed four of his nominations -- including that of Roberts -
- to the D.C. Circuit.  “President Obama is being treated differently than
President Bush was,” Senator  Patrick Leahy , a Vermont Democrat,
said in a floor speech.  The latest Republican move to block nominations “reopens
the conversation about changing the Senate rules,” said  Doug Kendall , president of the Constitutional Accountability Center,
an advocacy group that supports Millett’s confirmation.  Compromise Offered  Two Republicans who voted to consider Millett’s nomination,
 Susan Collins  of Maine and  Lisa Murkowski  of Alaska, suggested a
possible compromise on the three appeals-court nominations.
Collins said she had “raised the issue” with Obama of a
scenario where the Senate would confirm Millett and pass a
revised version of a measure from Iowa Republican  Charles Grassley  to eliminate the two other vacancies.  Grassley’s bill would cap the number of judges on the D.C.
Circuit at the current eight, eliminating all three vacancies.  Earlier this week the Senate confirmed five Obama nominees,
some of whom had waited as long as long as six months. They
included Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew’s nomination to the
International Monetary Fund’s board of governors and Thomas Wheeler as Federal Communications Commission chairman. Wheeler
was confirmed unanimously after Texas Republican Ted Cruz lifted
a hold on the nomination.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net ;
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  