-- Richter Raises Sales Forecast After Profit Exceeds Estimates
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-10-31T10:51:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/richter-raises-sales-forecast-after-profit-exceeds-estimates.html
Gedeon  Richter Nyrt ., Hungary’s
biggest drugmaker, increased its sales forecast for this year
after third-quarter  profit  beat analysts’ estimates.  Net income rose 26 percent to 11.3 billion forint ($52.6
million) from a year earlier and revenue climbed 7.1 percent to
82.6 billion forint, Richter said in a regulatory  statement 
today. The mean estimate in a Bloomberg survey of five analysts
was for a profit of 10.2 billion forint. Sales will probably
grow 5 percent in euro terms this year, compared with an earlier
forecast of 3 percent, Chief Executive Officer Erik Bogsch said.  “Sales are going better than expected,” Bogsch told
reporters in Budapest today. “It’s especially positive to see
improvement in  Hungary  for the first time in many years.”  Europe ’s largest maker of contraceptives has bet on export
revenue from Cariprazine, an antipsychotic drug developed with
Forest Laboratories Inc., and Esmya, a product designed to treat
uterine fibroids, to offset the impact of slower economic
performance in some its key markets and cuts in health-care
spending as regional governments rein in deficits.  Shares Climb  Richter  shares  rose 0.5 percent to 4,130 forint at 11:19
a.m. in Budapest, extending this year’s advance to 14 percent.
Budapest’s benchmark BUX I ndex  has gained 3 percent in 2013.  “Richter’s earnings substantially beat estimates, which
may mean analysts improve their forecasts for the rest of the
year and the stock will rally further,” KBC Groep NV analysts
in Budapest including Andras Somi said in an e-mailed note.  The revenue growth target for 2013 includes a sales
increase of as much as 5 percent in Hungary and as much as 10
percent in  Romania , Bogsch said. Sales in euros increased 1.9
percent in the third quarter from a year earlier.  Sales in the U.S. will probably fall by no more than 20
percent, compared with an earlier forecast of a decline of as
much as 25 percent.  China  will generate as much as 40 million
euros ($55 million) in revenue, 5 million more than previously
indicated, Bogsch said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  