-- Riksbanker Warns Stricter Bank Rules Don’t Support Easing Bias
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2013-10-31T07:24:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/riksbanker-warns-stricter-bank-rules-don-t-support-easing-bias.html
Sweden ’s central bank can’t use
harsher regulation as an opportunity to ease policy in the long
run because raising  capital requirements  probably won’t drive up
borrowing costs, Deputy Governor Martin Floden said.  “In the long-term, it’s not at all apparent that”
stricter bank rules “will have tightening effects” on the
economy through higher  interest rates , Floden said in an Oct. 29
interview in Bjuv, Sweden. “Part of the rationale is to make
them have more equity, which is perceived to be less risky and
that they therefore may not need as high returns.”  Sweden, which already sets some of the world’s strictest
bank capital standards, has said it may need to add to those
requirements next year to avoid fueling a credit-driven housing
bubble that risks destabilizing the economy. Finance Minister
 Anders Borg  has told Sweden’s biggest banks to gird for
continual tightening as he seeks to protect taxpayers from an
industry that’s grown to four times the size of the $540 billion
economy.  Sweden’s four biggest banks must hold at least 12 percent
of their risk-weighted assets by 2015 and may face additional
capital requirements already next year. The risk weights banks
apply to their mortgage assets were tripled this year as the
government and regulators work to ensure banks don’t dilute
their capital levels through the backdoor.  Catching Risk  The Riksbank has argued risk weights should be raised even
further, to 35 percent from 15 percent, to safeguard the housing
market. Households are also under pressure to repay their debts
faster after the financial regulator said it may introduce an
amortization requirement.  Economists at Citigroup Inc. and Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc have speculated the tougher regulatory environment
will free the central bank to focus on inflation, which has
hovered below its 2 percent target since the beginning of 2012.  “That it’s moving in that direction is clear, but then,
quantitatively, how important that is, we haven’t reached a
conclusion on yet,” Floden said. “It will take more analysis
of how banks are really affected by such regulatory changes.”  Governor Stefan Ingves said in an interview last week
tougher bank rules are benefiting lenders as the extra layer of
safety draws in debt investors at lower rates.  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) ,  Svenska Handelsbanken AB (SHBA) ,  Swedbank AB (SWEDA)  and
SEB AB already exceed Sweden’s 12 percent requirement.
Handelsbanken, which is  Europe ’s best-capitalized bank, reported
a capital ratio of 19.3 percent for the end of September.  Credit Derivatives  That’s driven down credit derivatives on the banks. Five-year credit-default swaps on senior unsecured notes sold by
Handelsbanken traded at 60 basis points this week, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s about the same level as the
government of  France .  Meanwhile, the housing market continues to display signs of
overheating. Apartment prices rose 14 percent in the 12 months
through August after having more than doubled since 2000.
Private debt burdens will rise to a record 177 percent of
disposable incomes in the fourth quarter of 2015 after having
more than doubled since the mid-1990s, the Riksbank estimates.  The Riksbank’s board said this month it took  household debt 
into account when deciding against cutting the main lending rate
from 1 percent.  Tightening Dynamics  Floden, together with Deputy Governor Karolina Ekholm, had
argued for a  reduction  to 0.75 percent and for tightening to be
pushed back until the fourth quarter next year. Such a policy
would help the bank boost inflation toward the target, the two
said.  Floden argues that failing to cut now will ultimately tie
the bank’s hands later and delay the tightening needed to steer
the economy.  Preliminary estimates “suggest that a rate cut of 25 basis
points for four quarters has a small effect of a few percentage
points” on household debt as a share of disposable incomes
during the same period, Floden said.  Also, a failure to cut rates now increases the likelihood
that the Riksbank will have to postpone its forecast to start
raising rates late next year, he said. “My view to raise the
rate in the fourth quarter 2014 is based on a rate cut.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  