-- Romney Donors Back Democrat Over Tea Party in Georgia
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2013-10-31T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/romney-donors-back-democrat-over-tea-party-in-georgia.html
Signs of the Republican Party rift
between business and the  Tea Party  are showing up where
Democrats most want to see them: in the campaign account of
Michelle Nunn, daughter of four-term Georgia Senator Sam Nunn.  “The vast majority of Americans say they don’t want the
government to shut down, they want middle ground,” said John
Wieland, founder of John Wieland Homes and Neighborhoods Inc.,
who together with his wife penned checks totaling $10,400 to
Nunn’s Democratic U.S. Senate bid. In the 2010 midterms, the
Wielands each gave $4,800 to the Republican Senate candidate.  “Michelle understands that middle ground, and that’s why
we wrote the checks,” Wieland said.  It’s a sentiment shared by some business donors from
Virginia to Arkansas, and one Democrats want to spread as the
parties vie for control of the Senate in the 2014 midterms.  Nunn, 46, is running for the seat of retiring Republican
Senator  Saxby Chambliss , and her opponent has yet to be
determined. Eight Republicans are competing in a June 3 primary,
including three U.S. House members who supported the ill-fated
plan to link defunding Obamacare to lifting the debt ceiling and
passing a government spending bill. Their efforts led to a 16-day shutdown that  Standard & Poor’s  estimated cost the  U.S.
economy  $24 billion.  In addition to Wieland, Nunn’s donors include Jim Cox Kennedy, the chairman of Atlanta-based communications company
Cox Enterprises Inc., who contributed $2,600 to her candidacy,
after giving $30,800 to the  Republican National Committee  and
$5,000 to Republican presidential nominee  Mitt Romney  in 2012.  Romney Donor  She’s also got support from Tom Cousins, former chief
executive officer of  Cousins Properties Inc. (CUZ)  and a developer who
helped shape downtown Atlanta in the 1970s and 1980s, who has
given her $5,200. Cousins donated $50,800 to the RNC and $5,000
to Romney. Both Kennedy and Cousins declined to comment on their
donations.  The financial push-back by the business community against
the small-government Tea Party movement extends to Virginia,
where Republican businessmen are cutting checks and commercials
to support Democrat  Terry McAuliffe  in the governor’s race
rather than state Attorney General  Ken Cuccinelli , a Republican
Tea-Party favorite.  In Arkansas, Democratic Senator  Mark Pryor  is facing U.S.
Representative Tom Cotton, a House Republican who voted against
opening the government and a five-year farm bill. Pryor is
highlighting both votes to draw donations from the agriculture
community and other boardrooms.  Arkansas Giving  As of June 30, when the farm bill was being debated and the
shutdown had yet to occur, Pryor had raised $89,750 from the
crop production and basic processing industry, compared with
$16,750 that went to his opponent.  Cotton’s biggest donor was Club for Growth, a Tea-Party
aligned group, according to the Washington-based Center for
Responsive Politics, which tracks political giving.  The shifting partisan allegiances, even if temporary, are
significant because Republicans are seeking to capture a net of
six seats in next year’s elections to regain a majority in the
Senate. Holding their Georgia seat and defeating Pryor are vital
components of their plan, both of which will be more difficult
if a sizable number of the party’s corporate backers give both
their money and their votes to Democrats.  Nunn’s race is among the marquee contests because it
presents a rare opportunity for the Democrats to take away a
seat from their partisan adversaries.  ‘Known Quantity’  “It’s big, and Michelle Nunn is particularly well
positioned because she’s already raised money from business for
years for the Points of Light Foundation,” said  Jennifer Duffy ,
Senate editor of the nonpartisan Cook Political Report in
Washington. “She’s a known quantity to them, which helps.”  Brook Hougesen, a spokeswoman for the  National Republican
Senatorial Committee , dismissed the importance of the donations.  “Any candidate is going to have a few CEOs supporting
them,” she said. “It’s not an extraordinary amount of support
she’s getting.”  Nunn is tapping her political pedigree as scion of a pro-business Democrat and those corporate ties from serving as
president of the Points of Light volunteer group founded by
former Republican President  George H.W. Bush  to solicit cash.  Jim Geiger, chairman of the Atlanta-based
telecommunications company  Cbeyond Inc. (CBEY)  and a self-described
lifelong Republican, said his support for Nunn is based on his
prior charitable work with her and a desire to see a bipartisan
cluster of Senators who understand business priorities.  Friendly Republicans  He’s hosting a fundraiser for Nunn later this year, and
“since most of my friends, if not all of them, are Republicans,
there will be a strong showing of Republican businessmen,”
Geiger said.  Arthur Blank, the owner of the  Atlanta Falcons  and co-founder of  Home Depot Inc. (HD) , has given $5,200. Blank has cut
checks for candidates from both parties, including $3,000 in
2010 for Republican Senator  Johnny Isakson  of Georgia.  Nunn drew attention to the votes her opponents cast against
the bipartisan debt-limit measure during an Oct. 28 campaign
stop. While visiting Fort Benning Army Base in Columbus,
Georgia, she talked with defense workers about the impact of the
shutdown. Afterward, she issued a statement decrying the effect
on the state’s economy.  “Instead of playing political games that hurt Georgia
families, Congress needs to take a pragmatic approach to solving
our nation’s fiscal challenges and reining in spending,” Nunn
said. “That’s what I’ll do as Georgia’s senator.”  Unique DNA  Jim Grien, the president of the investment bank TM Capital
Corp. and Nunn’s campaign treasurer, said Nunn has “some very
unique DNA” in politics and her family name raises her profile
beyond those of the Republican House incumbents in the race.  Sam Nunn, 75, was chairman of the Armed Services Committee,
and he built a reputation for breaking from his Democratic
colleagues on tax increases and other issues. Her father also
has worked with former Indiana Republican Senator  Richard Lugar 
on nuclear nonproliferation, an endeavor that earned them Nobel
Peace Prize nominations.  The Republican field in the race includes Representatives
Paul Broun, Jack Kingston and Phil Gingrey, all of whom voted
against bipartisan legislation that opened the government and
prevented a default on the nation’s debt, now $17 trillion.  Also running is David Perdue, the former chief executive
officer of  Dollar General Corp. (DG)  and the cousin of former
Governor Sonny Perdue; and former Secretary of State  Karen Handel , who resigned in 2012 as an executive at the Susan G.
Komen foundation, a breast cancer charity, amid controversy over
pulling funding from Planned Parenthood, which provides women’s
health screenings and abortions.  Michelle Nunn, who joined the race in late July, raised
$1.73 million by Sept. 30, bested only by Kingston, who has
raised $3.35 million and Perdue, who has collected $1.81 million
including a $500,000 personal loan and a $500,000 donation to
his campaign.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  