-- Russia Increases Syria Arms While Joining Push for Talks
-- B y   T e r r y   A t l a s
-- 2013-10-31T18:08:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/russia-increases-syria-arms-while-joining-push-for-talks.html
Russia  has increased its weapons
shipments to the Syrian government in the past year,
complicating efforts to start peace talks, the U.S. ambassador
to Syria said today.  Ambassador Robert Ford today called the Russian military
aid “substantial” and in some cases “militarily extremely
significant.” A second U.S. official, Assistant Secretary of
State Thomas Countryman, said the Russian aid is now more
important than the weapons provided to President Bashar al-Assad’s forces by  Iran .  While he didn’t provide details, Ford made clear that
Russia’s action are a cause for tension between U.S. Secretary
of State  John Kerry  and his Russian counterpart,  Sergei Lavrov .
The diplomats speak several times a week in efforts to prepare
for peace talks in Geneva as soon as next month, Ford told the
Senate Foreign Relations Committee.  “We have had, including at the level of the secretary, a
lot of discussion with the Russians” about the arms shipments,
Ford said. “The Russians would help everyone get to the
negotiating table faster if they would stop these deliveries.”  Republican Senator  John McCain  of  Arizona  said the U.S. is
in an “Orwellian situation” in which Russia cooperates on
eliminating Syria’s chemical weapons while increasing the
quantity and quality of the conventional weapons in the hands of
Assad’s forces.  ‘Feckless’ Response  Senator  Bob Corker  of  Tennessee , the committee’s senior
Republican, said the U.S. appears “feckless” with its slow and
limited military supplies to the Syrian rebels. He said the U.S.
has covertly trained about 1,000 Syrian rebels, and is
continuing at a rate of 50 to 100 a month.  Ford said a diplomatic solution is essential because
neither side in the conflict “can throw a knockout punch in the
foreseeable future.”  The rebels are weakened by infighting between moderate and
radical Islamist factions, he said.  Countryman, assistant secretary for international security
and nonproliferation, told the committee that Russia’s
“unswerving support” for the Syrian government “costs the
Russians in credibility with the rest of the Arab world and with
the entire region.”  Ford confirmed an incident last summer in which a cargo
ship carrying Russian arms was turned back after the U.S. and
allies “convinced an insurance company to withdraw its
insurance coverage for the ship delivering it.”  “But that is a rare success, frankly,” Ford said.  Facilities Destroyed  The Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons
said today that  Syria  has met a deadline for the destruction of
chemical weapons production facilities, the biggest step so far
in the United Nations-authorized program to surrender its
weapons of mass destruction.  The Russian-brokered deal, which averted U.S. military
strikes, disappointed Syrian rebels who have sought support from
military intervention, Ford said. Syrian opposition leaders have
said they worry that the accord will be seen as strengthening
Assad’s claim to continuing in power.  “While al-Assad may see himself as indispensable to the
elimination of chemical weapons, that is not our view,”
Countryman said. “The Syrian Arab Republic has accepted an
obligation that is binding upon this government and binding upon
the next government, which we hope to see soon.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terry Atlas in Washington at 
 tatlas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  