-- S. Africa Unions Threaten Strikes as Platinum Pay Offer Rejected
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2013-10-31T14:55:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/s-africa-unions-threaten-strikes-as-platinum-pay-offer-rejected.html
South Africa’s National Union of
Mineworkers said it would strike at  Northam Platinum Ltd. (NHM)  Nov. 3
and Solidarity rejected an offer by  Lonmin Plc (LMI)  as labor and
platinum producers hold wage talks.  “We gave it all,” exhausting every option, Ecliff Tantsi,
chief NUM negotiator at Northam, said by phone. The union will
wait to strike until the evening shift at the end of the weekend
to allow more time for dialogue, he said, adding “there is no
indication of when we are meeting.”  The NUM’s deadline adds to the potential for labor action
at other platinum operations in South Africa. Members of the
Association of Mineworkers and Construction Union, the largest
labor group at  Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd. (IMP) ’s operations, voted
on Oct. 28 to strike at the world’s biggest platinum mine.  Platinum has fallen 5.9 percent this year, tracking a slump
in gold as some investors lost faith in precious metals as a
store of value and amid concern about slowing demand in Europe
and  China . Today’s 2 percent drop narrowed this month’s gain to
2.7 percent.  Northam’s Zondereinde division was served with a strike
notice after its latest wage offer of 7 percent to 8 percent was
rejected, the company said in a statement. The NUM demands an
average increase of 61 percent, Northam said.  The AMCU wants basic monthly wages for underground workers
of 12,500 rand ($1,275) from the three largest South African
platinum producers.  Lonmin Talks  Solidarity rejected Lonmin’s four-year offer of a 6 percent
increase annually for skilled employees and 7 percent for entry-level workers, the union said in a statement.  The company won’t be commenting “on the progress of the
negotiations as we believe it would be counterproductive,” Sue
Vey, a spokeswoman for Lonmin, said in an e-mailed response to
questions.  The AMCU is the biggest representative of workers at
Lonmin, Impala and  Anglo American Platinum Ltd. (AAL) , or Amplats, the
world’s three largest producers of the metal.  “It might happen that a strike could happen jointly” with
other platinum companies, Jimmy Gama, AMCU’s treasurer, said
yesterday.  The union is also in wage negotiations with Amplats. Mpumi
Sithole, a spokeswoman for the company, didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  Johan Theron, an Impala spokesman, confirmed the company
had received notice of the AMCU’s vote. “They gave as formal
notice of the outcome of the ballot and notice that they seek
further engagement,” he said by e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in Johannesburg at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  