-- Sanoma Cuts Print Media to Follow Advertisers Going Digital
-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 2013-10-31T11:07:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/sanoma-curtails-print-media-to-follow-advertisers-going-digital.html
Sanoma Oyj (SAA1V)  will slim down its print
offering as the Finnish publisher seeks to regain profitability
by following advertisers into digital media.  Sanoma will focus on digital services and other businesses
in its “more structurally attractive markets,” it said today
in a statement. It will revamp the organization into three
units, for the Netherlands, Finland and learning operations,
which includes publishing and services. The company will seek
100 million euros ($137 million) in cost savings by the end of
2016, compared with an earlier target of 60 million euros.  “New technologies are fundamentally changing the behavior
of media consumers,” Chief Executive Officer Harri-Pekka Kaukonen said in the statement. “Advertisers are following
consumers. This implies a rapid increase in advertising in
digital channels that enable targeting, measuring and
performance-based pricing.”  Sanoma is responding to an accelerating consumer shift to
online content from print news that has hurt publishers and
paper makers in developed countries for the past decade. Print
advertising shrank an annual 20 percent in the third quarter and
weak advertising markets eroded revenue by 7 percent in the
first nine months of the year, it said in a separate statement.  Sanoma shares declined 1.7 percent to 6.55 euros at 1:02
p.m. in the Finnish capital after rising as much as 5 percent
earlier in the day. Volume was about 174 percent of the three-month daily average.  Digital Format  Sanoma intends to take its magazine brands, newspapers and
television brands into a digital format with the ambition of
becoming the top media company in the Netherlands and  Finland .
Its online classifieds and price-comparison websites will focus
on generating leads and data analytics.  Sanoma’s third-quarter  net loss  for continued operations
was 262.9 million euros, compared with a restated profit of 37.8
million euros a year earlier.  Sanoma will keep 17 print magazine titles in the
Netherlands and plans to sell, merge or close the remaining 32
by the end of 2015, cutting about 500 jobs. Its consumer media
assets in Russia and  Belgium  are under strategic review, the
company said. That means Sanoma will test the possibility of
selling the operations and it may still decide to keep them,
Kaukonen said on an investor call today.  Job Reductions  In Finland, the Helsinki-based company is merging media
operations into one company. It will discontinue the current
form of Nelonen TV news produced by Helsingin Sanomat in favor
of a new online-driven news concept with lower costs. That will
lead to about 70 job cuts, the company said.  “We are launching a plan regarding the largest
transformation in Sanoma’s history,” Kaukonen said. “We will
have to make tough choices to finance the investments needed to
enable future growth, and to seize all opportunities in the
businesses that we are focusing on.”  Over the past year, the company has exited some operations,
quitting the Slovenian, Bulgarian and Romanian markets, and has
revamped its leadership. Sanoma kept its 2013  forecast  unchanged
today after reducing prospects twice this year. It predicted
that net sales will decline more than 4 percent from the prior
year and operating profit excluding one-time items will be less
than 180 million euros.  Sanoma changed its long-term financial targets and now
seeks to achieve net debt to earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization ratio below 3.5, an equity ratio
of 35 percent to 45 percent and gearing of less than 100
percent. One-time costs from the restructuring mean Sanoma will
probably  cut its dividend  in the near term, it said.  Sanoma wrote down its Dutch assets by 268.4 million euros
and Russian assets by 24.4 million euros as part of total one-time items of 316.6 million euros in the third quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  