-- SAT and ACT College Test Companies Sued Over Data Sales
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-10-31T20:00:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/sat-and-act-college-test-companies-sued-over-data-sales.html
ACT Inc. and the College Board,
companies that administer college admissions tests taken by high
school students across the U.S., were accused in a lawsuit of
selling personal data without permission.  ACT and the College Board, whose exams include the SAT and
those for advanced placement, ask for permission to share data
including names, birth dates and social security numbers without
disclosing that information is being sold to scores of buyers
for about 33 cents a student, according to the complaint in
federal court in  Chicago . The plaintiff, Illinois resident
Rachel Specter, accuses the companies of breach of contract for
selling the personal identifying information, or PII.  “The fact that any third party who was willing to pay
substantial sums of money to the defendants would be given
access to the plaintiff’s and class’ PII was not part of the
parties’ contract,” according to the Oct. 28 complaint.  Specter, who took the exams three to four years ago,
alleges the companies invaded her privacy and have been unjustly
enriched by data sales. Along with unspecified money damages,
she seeks to represent other test-takers since 2003 in a class-action lawsuit.  “We do not comment on ongoing litigation,” Carly
Lindauer, a  College Board  spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. “As a
guiding principle in all we do, the College Board takes very
seriously the privacy, security and confidentiality of
information entrusted to us by the students in our care.”  1.6 Million Students  More than 1.6 million members of the high school class of
2013 took the SAT exam at least once, according to the company.
The New York-based organization’s  website  describes it as a
nonprofit association representing more than 6,000 schools,
colleges and universities.  Ed Colby, a spokesman for Iowa City, Iowa-based ACT, said
the company doesn’t comment on pending litigation.  More than 1.8 million members of the U.S. high school
graduating class of 2013 took the ACT exam, Colby said.  ACT also offers its namesake test and others for students
in kindergarten through the senior year of high school,
according to its  website .  Two members of Congress called for an inquiry in 2011 about
how the testing companies collect and store data from student
test takers.  The case is Specter v. ACT Inc., 13-cv-07701, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of  Illinois  (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in federal court in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  