-- Scene Last Night: Kravis, Boies, Petraeus, Navab, Harman
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2013-10-31T14:48:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/scene-last-night-kravis-boies-patraeus-navab-harman.html
David Petraeus, the retired Army
general, had a victory last night presiding over the Woodrow
Wilson Awards at the Pierre hotel.  “David asked me what the highest-grossing dinner was, and
he met and exceeded that,” said  Jane Harman , the director of
the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars and retired
California representative. The amount raised was $1.4 million.  Support from his firm,  KKR & Co. (KKR) , which he joined in May,
was a factor, as was a willingness to be teased about his abs,
which Harman called “the strongest in western civilization.”  Lawyers Mary and  David Boies  accepted the award for public
service; Marie-Josee and Henry Kravis were honored for corporate
citizenship.  “What really separates our country is not our prosperity
and respect for the individual, it is our rule of law,” David
Boies said. “We are all equal and the law is what we employ to
see that happen, so this award is not for us, but for the law.”  Among his accomplishments was winning a ruling with Ted Olson upholding marriage as a constitutional right for same-sex
couples -- a campaign Kravis donated to. Mary Boies’s practice
focuses on antitrust and corporate commercial litigation.  A video played at the event showed the Boieses morphing into
Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie  “Marie-Josee is like Milton Friedman, but taller and much
more elegant,” said hedge-fund manager  Paul Tudor Jones  in the
video on the Kravises.  As for  Henry Kravis , “If you don’t give to him, he’ll LBO
your company,” Jones said.  Major Gifts  Marie-Josee Kravis, an economist, said she and her husband
were reticent about accepting the award, because calling
attention to the kind of major philanthropic gifts they have
made can be a “distraction from the smaller gifts that define
our country.”  Referring to Petraeus, Kravis said, “Certainly the best
thing I’ve done so far this year was convince Dave to come to
KKR, and that was not easy.”  Among the guests were Glenn Hubbard, dean of the Columbia
Business School, Representative  Carolyn Maloney , Democrat of New
York, and several KKR executives, including: Scott Nuttall, head
of global capital, Alex Navab, co-head of North American private
equity, and Ken Mehlman, global head of public affairs.  The honorees shared a table with the chairman of the Wilson
Center’s board of trustees, Thomas Nides, a vice chairman of
 Morgan Stanley (MUS) , New York Police Commissioner Ray Kelly, and John Hess, chief executive officer of  Hess Corp. (HES)   (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Greg Evans  on TV, James S. Russell
on architecture.  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in New York at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 