-- Senator Paul Predicts Yellen to Win Confirmation to Fed
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2013-10-31T18:05:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/senator-paul-predicts-yellen-will-win-confirmation-to-lead-fed.html
Senator Rand Paul, a Republican from
Kentucky, predicted Federal Reserve Vice Chairman Janet Yellen
will win U.S. Senate confirmation to succeed  Ben S. Bernanke  as
central bank chairman.  Asked if Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  has the votes to
get Yellen confirmed, Paul said, “in all likelihood, yes.” He
spoke today in an interview for Bloomberg Television’s
“Political Capital with  Al Hunt ” airing this weekend.  Yellen today began meeting with senators in preparation for
a Nov. 14 nomination hearing by the Senate Banking Committee.
She needs to win the panel’s approval before her nomination
advances to the Senate for a confirmation vote. Bernanke’s term
expires on Jan. 31.  “We had a nice meeting, a courteous meeting,” Senator
 Richard Shelby  of Alabama, the No. 2 Republican on the banking
panel, said today after talking to Yellen, 67. He said he asked
“a lot of questions about the role of the Fed,” and didn’t
commit to supporting her nomination.  Paul, 50, has pledged to hold up the nomination until
securing a vote on legislation requiring a public audit of the
central bank, including decision-making on monetary policy.  “I want to draw attention to the fact that audit the Fed
has been held hostage by Senator Reid for three years,” Paul
said.  “Apparently  Janet Yellen ’s been in favor of transparency
at the Fed,” he said. “That’s all we’re asking for is an open
audit.”  Oust Senators  Paul also addressed the struggle within the Republican
Party, where an emboldened Tea Party is seeking to oust senators
who voted to reopen the government during a partial shutdown
this month.  At least seven Republican senators are facing primary
challengers in the 2014 midterm elections, including Senate
Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell ,  Lindsey Graham  of  South
Carolina ,  Thad Cochran  of Mississippi and  Lamar Alexander  of
Tennessee, all of whom voted to end the 16-day closing.  Asked if the challenges would damage the Republican Party,
Paul said “I don’t think it hurts.”  “I’m a big believer in the free market,” he said. “That
means competition’s good. It makes us all better through
competition.”  While he’s not backing any of the challengers against
incumbents, Paul said, the competition “makes us hone our
message better, makes us present it better.”  Companion Bill  Paul said his legislation to audit the Fed probably
wouldn’t win the support of 60 senators, the number of votes
needed to advance the measure to the White House. A companion
bill passed the House of Representatives last year with a vote
of 327-98. The effort was a cause of his father,  Ron Paul , a
Republican and former U.S. representative from Texas.  Bernanke has repeatedly said the legislation would expose
Fed policy making to political pressure and jeopardize  the
central bank’s  independence.  “If they’re not doing anything untoward, there should be
no reason why we couldn’t look at it,” Paul said.  The audit could also investigate whether it’s too easy for
officials to move between Fed jobs and Wall Street, he said.  “It’s an issue that 70 percent of the American people
don’t think it’s right for a guy to come out of the Treasury and
make $160 million on Wall Street the very next year and then go
back into Treasury the next year,” Paul said.  “This revolving door, we should at least know what the
policy is and whether anybody’s getting rich off of that
policy,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  