-- Shell Profit Misses Analyst Estimates as Global Output Drops
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2013-10-31T17:44:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/shell-profit-falls-32-on-lower-refining-gains-nigerian-halts.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  Europe ’s
biggest oil company, reported third-quarter earnings that missed
analyst estimates as profits at refineries plunged, disruption
in Nigeria cut output and spending increased.  Profit excluding one-time items and inventory changes fell
32 percent to $4.5 billion from $6.6 billion a year earlier, The
Hague-based Shell said in a statement. That missed the $5.3
billion average  estimate  of 11 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.
Spending on projects and acquisitions will reach $45 billion
this year, the company said, $5 billion more than expected.  Oil and gas production dropped 2 percent worldwide because
of disruptions in Nigeria, and margins at oil refineries fell in
the third quarter because of overcapacity in Europe, where fuel
demand is falling. Chief Executive Officer  Peter Voser , who
steps down at the end of the year, said Shell would cut net
spending next year by increasing the pace of asset sales.  “We are facing headwinds from weak industry refining
margins, and the security situation in Nigeria,” Voser said in
today’s statement. “Shell has a strong project flow in place
for 2014 and beyond.”  Shell shares fell 4.9 percent to 2,076.5 pence in  London ,
the most since August 2011.  Shell plans to sell more assets in the coming two years to
hit a target of net capital expenditure of $130 billion from
2012 to 2015.  Refining Drops  Earnings from refining and marketing almost halved to $892
million in the third quarter from a year ago, Shell said. The
company pumped 2.931 million barrels of oil equivalent a day in
the quarter, about 2 percent lower than a year earlier, amid
production interruptions in  Nigeria .  Net income fell 35 percent to $4.7 billion.  “These were very disappointing results, made all the more
so by guidance on capex,” analysts at Deutsche Bank AG said in
a note to clients. Maintenance work in Nigeria, Qatar and the
U.K. mean “earnings are likely to remain challenged in the
coming quarter.”  Shell’s chief financial officer, Simon Henry, defended the
company’s record on investment. This year’s total includes about
$10 billion in acquisitions including LNG assets from Repsol and
and assets in  Brazil , while divestments in Nigeria, the U.S. and
U.K. have been deferred until next year, he said.  “It would be easy to get to cheap headlines and the cheap
boost to the stock price by cutting investment,” Henry said on
a phone call with reporters. “It’s in nobody’s long-term
interest. We take criticism for the time being, so be it. We can
afford to invest.”  Exxon Mobil  France ’s Total SA today said third-quarter earnings
decreased 19 percent to 2.7 billion euros ($3.7 billion) on
lower refining margins.  BG Group Plc (BG/)  said adjusted profit
slipped 4 percent to $1.1 billion on lower production. Exxon
Mobil Corp., the world’s largest oil company, said profit fell
18 percent in the third quarter.  Shell, which  operates  almost half of Nigeria’s production,
has shut the Trans Niger oil pipeline five times since July
because of fuel theft. The West African nation has been losing
$100 million a month because of oil-pipeline sabotage and
shutdowns, Chief Financial Officer Simon Henry estimated in May.  Security Situation  Profits were reduced by $300 million by “the deteriorated
security situation onshore Nigeria and a blockade of Nigeria
LNG,” it said today. Shell also took a $176 million net charge
in the quarter, “predominantly related to various offshore
properties in  North America .”  Shell’s refining head, Ben van Beurden, will succeed Voser
next year. Among the large-scale projects he will take on is the
Libra field off Brazil, won by the company and its partners this
month. Shell has forecast net capital expenditure of about $40
billion this year and plans to invest as much as $130 billion in
2012-2015.  Van Beurden will also seek to restore profit at Shell’s
North American operations. Shell started selling U.S. shale
assets after booking a $2.1 billion impairment this year. Shell
in August scrapped a 4 million-barrel-a-day target for total
output in 2017.  Shell took over the Coulomb North field project, which is
pumping about 10,000 barrels of oil equivalent a day in the  Gulf
of Mexico , the company said today. It sold its interest in the
downstream business in  Ghana .  Shell will proceed with the Carmon Creek project in
 Alberta ,  Canada , the company said in a separate statement. The
project is expected to produce as much as 80,000 barrels a day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  