-- Shipwreck Hunter Odyssey Falls After Short Seller Report
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2013-10-31T19:33:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/shipwreck-hunter-odyssey-falls-after-short-seller-report.html
Odyssey Marine Exploration Inc. (OMEX) , the
deep-ocean salvage company that has recovered millions of
dollars of precious metals from shipwrecks, plunged the most in
two years after short seller Meson Capital Partners LLC said it
will run out of cash.  Odyssey fell 25 percent to $2.14 at 3:29 p.m. in  New York .
The Tampa, Florida-based company earlier dropped 34 percent, the
most intraday since September 2011.  “The purpose of OMEX is to serve as a vehicle for OMEX
insiders to live a life of glamor hunting the ocean while
disappointed investors foot the bill,” Ryan J. Morris, managing
partner at San Francisco-based Meson, said today in a 66-page
 report , referring to Odyssey by its stock symbol. Meson has a
share-price target of zero.  Odyssey has lost an average of $20 million a year for five
years and is unlikely to be able to repay its debts, Morris
said. Odyssey will be forced to file for  bankruptcy protection 
in six to 12 months if it can’t raise equity, he said.  Odyssey said it has contacted market authorities about the
report and is considering legal action against Meson and Morris.  “The text is filled with lies, false statements, and
misleading allegations,” Laura Lionetti Barton, an Odyssey
spokeswoman said in an e-mailed statement. “We believe this is
a clear attempt to manipulate the market.”  According to the report, Meson was founded in 2009 and is
an activist investor that seeks to turn around “faltering”
companies.  WWII Wreck  Morris, 29, said today in a telephone interview that the
report is his first as a short seller.  “I’m better known for being an activist on the long
side,” he said.  Short sellers borrow shares to sell with the hope of
profiting by buying them back at a cheaper price.  Odyssey last year recovered 48 tons of silver from a World
War II shipwreck three miles (4.8 kilometers) beneath the
Atlantic Ocean.  Meson said new regulations by the United Nations
Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, known as
UNESCO, that protect national gravesites and heritage make
Odyssey’s shipwreck hunting “unviable.” It also said Odyssey’s
undersea mineral-exploration business is “a pipedream and worth
zero.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  