-- Sibanye Gold Says Union-Weary Workers Unlikely to Strike
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2013-10-31T10:31:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/sibanye-gold-profit-increases-10-on-output-gains-at-lower-cost.html
Sibanye Gold Ltd. (SGL) , the South African
miner spun off by  Gold Fields Ltd. (GFI)  this year, said workers
disappointed by the performance of their labor unions are
unlikely to strike over wages next week.  A strike is “a most unlikely situation,” Chief Executive
Officer Neal Froneman said on a call with analysts and
reporters. “Management are the only ones who have delivered on
what they said they would do at the operations. There’s a lot of
disillusionment around organized labor.”  Gold companies agreed to an 8 percent pay increase with all
labor groups except the Association of Mineworkers and
Construction Union last month. The AMCU said yesterday it will
decide next week whether it should down tools.  The union represents about 19 percent of gold employees at
companies belonging to the Chamber of Mines, which speaks for
the industry, and 65 percent of workers at Sibanye’s biggest
site, Driefontein. Members of the AMCU this week voted to strike
at the world’s biggest platinum mine, owned by  Impala Platinum
Holdings Ltd. (IMP) , without saying when the action will start.  Sibanye is confident that the wage accord reached with
other unions including the  National Union of Mineworkers  applies
to workers at Driefontein, because the company -- not the mine -
- is legally defined as a workplace, Froneman said.  “We’re in a very strong position legally,” he said.
“Should they declare a strike, it will be illegal.”  Sibanye’s advanced 4.4 percent to 14.13 rand by 12:29 p.m.
in Johannesburg trading after the company said third-quarter
operating profit rose 10 percent as production climbed and costs
fell.  Profit, Production  Operating profit was 2 billion rand ($201 million) in the
three months to Sept. 30, compared with 1.8 billion rand in the
previous quarter, the Westonaria-based company said today in a
statement. Production rose 8.6 percent to 387,800 ounces, while
all-in costs declined 9.6 percent to $1,059 an ounce.  Sibanye announced its first dividend of 37 South African
cents a share last month after profit and output increased in
the first half. The stock had a 7 percent dividend yield on the
declaration date, making it then the highest yielding gold
mining stock globally, it said in the statement.  Total shareholder returns have outperformed former parent
Gold Fields by 55 percent since the two separated in February.
The company was formed as a collection of cash-generating South
African gold-mining assets, while Gold Fields retained growth
mines in  Australia ,  Peru  and  Ghana .  Sibanye will probably produce about 378,000 ounces of gold
at an all-in cost of $1,125 an ounce in the fourth quarter, it
said today. That will increase annual production by 5.2 percent
to 1.42 million ounces and cut all-in costs by 4 percent to
360,000 rand a kilogram.  More Gold  The company aims to further boost production and lower
costs by mining rock that was previously preserved as support
pillars in older mines, if it’s viable and safe to do so. It
will also review shift cycles, cut the time miners spend
traveling to the rock face, and explore secondary reefs that
weren’t mined in the past due to their low grade ore and
complexity, according to the statement.  Sibanye  generated  811 million rand in cash during the
quarter, meaning it now has 2.1 billion rand of cash on its
balance sheet. It made two 750 million-rand payments to reduce
debt in August and October. Gross debt is 40 percent lower at
2.5 billion rand, compared with the beginning of the year.  The current debt levels mean Sibanye can pay a  dividend  of
as much as 35 percent of 2013 normalized earnings, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in Johannesburg at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  