-- Siemens Says Infrastructure Unit Must Improve as Reckoning Looms
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2013-10-31T17:02:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/siemens-says-infrastructure-unit-must-improve-as-reckoning-looms.html
Siemens AG (SIE)  Chief Executive Officer
Joe Kaeser said the infrastructure division, the least
profitable at Europe’s largest engineering company, needs to
better identify the markets it wants to target.  “We must work on improving the profitability and strategic
focus of the sector’s themes,” Kaeser said in an company
newsletter. When asked if he might dissolve the division, which
pools a wide range range of businesses including rail
technologies, power distribution equipment and building
technologies, he said that “changing the IC sector structure is
not a priority.”  The company’s four main divisions, called sectors by
Siemens, must also start to deliver results from the savings
measures implemented over the past year, said Kaeser, who
replaced  Peter Loescher  as CEO at the Munich-based company in
August.  The infrastructure and cities division has faced investor
criticism since it was carved out by Loescher from existing
units in 2011. Its 6.5 percent profit margin last year lagged
the 9.5 percent achieved by the company as a whole. Without
saying how it got the information,  Germany ’s Manager Magazin
reported Oct. 17 that Kaeser was considering disbanding the
sector as soon as next October.  Siemens should sell the divisions’s transportation unit,
adding to already planned divestments of postal and baggage
handling businesses, while reshaping the company structure over
the next five years, Societe Generale SA analysts including Gael de Bray said in a Sept. 9 note.  Electrification Chain  Spinning off the healthcare sector could also unlock value
of six euros per share, the analysts added, questioning whether
the division fitted into Kaeser’s attempt to focus Siemens
“along the electrification chain”.  “I am especially pleased to have such a profitable and
well-managed business,” Kaeser said today of the healthcare
sector, the most profitable of the four. “We do not need to
reinvent the company.”  Siemens has already agreed a deal to sell its water
technologies division to New York-based private equity firm AEA
Investors for $800 million, two people familiar with the matter
told Bloomberg on Oct. 15.  While Siemens will divest units as soon as possible where
it is unable to engineer a turnaround, Kaeser said he will not
“give up on businesses just because they are not performing
well.”  Kaeser is already reorganizing the companies sales
structure, eliminating a cluster organization set up by Loescher
which grouped sales functions across several nations. Siemens’s
operations at a national level will now bear responsibility for
distribution, allowing them to react more quickly to demand, the
company said Oct. 18.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Webb in Munich at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  