-- Singapore Challenged as LNG Trade Hub by Liquidity Lack
-- B y   A n n   K o h   a n d   P r a t i s h   N a r a y a n a n
-- 2013-10-31T05:40:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/singapore-challenged-as-lng-trade-hub-by-liquidity-lack.html
Singapore ’s drive to become an Asian
hub for buying and selling liquefied natural gas will be
constrained by stagnant volumes in the spot market, which
traders say may not expand anytime soon.  The city-state, which opened its first LNG terminal in May,
plans to award import licenses to as many as two suppliers and
almost triple the amount of gas it can receive over the next
three years, the government said yesterday. While it has the
infrastructure and supply options needed for a market to
develop, a lack of liquidity may prevent that from happening for
at least four years, according to Wood Mackenzie Ltd.  Asia’s oil-trading center is vying to become a hub for LNG,
supercooled gas shipped by tankers rather than pipelines. The
region has overtaken Europe as the world’s biggest gas importer,
accounting for 46 percent of global trade, according to the
International Energy Agency, which identifies Singapore as being
best-placed to become the center for trading LNG.  “Conceptually it’s fine, but possibly it’s a little bit
ahead of its time,” said Tony Regan, a Singapore-based energy
consultant at Tri-Zen International Inc. “Singapore has
facilitated the development of this market, it’s just that other
parts, such as receivers and buyers, are not moving at quite the
same speed.”  About 59 million metric tons of LNG, or 25 percent of the
236 million tons sold globally, were traded as short-term or
spot cargoes last year, unchanged from the year before,
according to an annual report by the  International Group of
Liquefied Natural Gas Importers , the industry group for LNG
buyers and sellers known by its French acronym GIIGNL. Asia
accounted for 70 percent of the total.  Spot Constraints  A lack of new supply is limiting spot transactions, GIIGNL
said. “Until substantial new volumes become available, this
phenomenon is likely to continue for the next couple of years as
Asian importers have a growing appetite for more secure
supplies.”  While trade may remain stagnant, companies are still lining
up to tap Singapore’s market. Companies from  Germany ’s  E.ON SE (EOAN) 
to Glencore Xstrata Plc are said to have hired LNG traders in
the city this year. Qatar Liquefied Gas Co., the world’s largest
producer, is looking to expand in the region, Abdulla Al-Hussaini, the company’s marketing director, said today.  GAIL India Ltd., the country’s biggest gas distributor,
will allocate 1 million tons of the fuel from the U.S. for
trading at its Singapore unit, Chairman B.C. Tripathi said in an
interview Oct. 29.  Temasek Holdings Pte, Singapore’s state-owned investment
company, set up Pavilion Energy Pte in April to trade LNG.
Pavilion signed its first long-term deal with a European
supplier, it said yesterday.  Pavilion Contract  Pavilion will get 500,000 tons a year for 10 years starting
in 2018, according to a statement. The contract is with “a
major European oil and gas multinational” for delivery into
Singapore and the region, Chief Executive Seah Moon Ming said at
a Singapore International Energy Week event yesterday. Pavilion
has started trading LNG and expects to complete its first cargo
delivery to Asia by February, Seah said.  The nation of 5.4 million people opened the Jurong Island
terminal with an initial annual capacity of 3.5 million tons,
rising to 6 million tons by the end of 2013. A fourth tank at
the facility will boost that to 9 million tons by 2016. Natural
gas supplied 84 percent of Singapore’s electricity in 2012.  BG (BG/)  Plc won the contract in 2008 to supply 3 million tons
annually over 10 years starting in 2013. Singapore may buy an
additional 1.5 million tons a year under the new licenses,
Second Trade Minister S. Iswaran said in a speech at the
conference yesterday. The Energy Market Authority, the industry
regulator, will invite proposals and shortlist candidates next
year, he said at the event.  ‘Greater Role’  The terminal “gives Singapore an opportunity to play a
greater role in the region by supporting LNG trade and providing
ancillary services,” Iswaran said.  The government also plans to lift a moratorium on piped-gas
supplies by 2018 or when BG reaches its 3 million-ton
commitment, according to Iswaran. This may lead to increased
purchases from neighboring Malaysia or  Indonesia , he said,
depending on how competitive they are. As of August, Reading,
U.K.-based BG had supplied almost 90 percent of its franchised
volume, according to its  website .  “We had a moratorium in order to ensure that the LNG
market was able to develop and have a certain baseload position
in Singapore,” Iswaran said. “We should be able to open up our
market to different sources of gas to ensure the most
competitive sources are able to supply to Singapore.”  Lacking Liquidity  The Asian LNG markets don’t yet have the requisite
liquidity and they are still controlled by governments, making
it “very difficult” for a trading hub to develop, said Mangesh
Patankar, the managing consultant for Asia-Pacific gas and power
at Wood Mackenzie.  “Singapore is well-placed, it has pipeline connectivity,
it now has a regasification terminal, but the key issue would be
the quantum of demand,” Patankar said by phone. “For a trading
hub to develop, there is also a need for a decent amount of
demand and that may not be the case in some of the Southeast
Asian countries at least. Places like  China  or Japan may have an
advantage in those terms.”  Japan, the world’s biggest LNG buyer, accounted for almost
half of Asia’s spot trade in 2012, according to GIIGNL. South
Korea, the second-largest consumer, purchased a about a quarter
of the cargoes.  LNG Prices  Southeast Asia’s gas demand will rise by about 15 percent
to 169 billion cubic meters by 2016 from 2012 levels, compared
with 9.7 percent growth in global consumption, the Paris-based
IEA estimates. By contrast, China’s needs will increase by 59
percent to 237 billion in the same period.  Spot LNG  prices  for Northeast Asia jumped to the highest
level in almost eight months through Oct. 21 as  Japan  boosted
purchases after shutting down all its nuclear reactors as a
result of the March 2011 earthquake. Prices increased to $17.10
per million British thermal units, New York-based Energy
Intelligence Group said on the website of its World Gas
Intelligence publication.  “I don’t think Singapore’s status as an LNG hub will be
purely based on domestic demand, which is fairly limited,” Nick
Kouvaritakis, an associate at  Herbert Smith Freehills LLP , said
in the city yesterday. “It has a lot to do with external trade
and the ability to get trading flow from international
companies.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ann Koh in Singapore at 
 akoh15@bloomberg.net ;
Pratish Narayanan in Singapore at 
 pnarayanan9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  