-- Slovakia, Gazprom Close to Price Accord, Minister Says
-- B y   L a d k a   B a u e r o v a
-- 2013-10-31T12:59:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/slovakia-gazprom-close-to-price-accord-minister-says.html
Slovakia is close to an agreement
with Gazprom OAO on lower natural-gas prices, following other
European Union members who renegotiated contracts with the
Russian provider.  An accord will probably be reached before the end of this
year, Slovak Economy Minister Tomas Malatinsky said in an
interview in Bratislava, Slovakia.  Slovakia is currently paying Gazprom among the highest
prices for the commodity in the 28-member EU, the minister said.
An agreement with Gazprom would crown Prime Minister Robert Fico’s multiyear push to regain full control over Slovak
consumer gas prices after the state recently bought back a
minority stake in gas provider Slovensky Plynarensky Priemysel.  “Our aim is to negotiate prices that would make it
possible to cap prices for consumers on one hand, and for SPP to
stop losing money on the other,” Malatinsky said today.
“Reaching an agreement by the end of the year is realistic.”  The government agreed on Sept. 4 to buy the 49 percent in
SPP it doesn’t already own from Czech utility Energeticky a
Prumyslovy Holding AS, which purchased the stake from E.ON SE
and  GDF Suez SA (GSZ)  in January after agreeing to tighter price
regulation. Fico had criticized SPP’s two previous investors,
E.ON SE and GDF Suez, as far back as in 2008 for seeking
increases in household gas prices that ignored living standards
in the euro-area country.  A Gazprom spokesman declined to comment on whether the
company was close to changing the terms for gas supplies to
Slovakia. The Russian supplier holds regular discussions with
partners, said the spokesman, who asked not to be identified
because of company policy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladka Bauerova in Prague at 
 lbauerova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  