-- Soda Tax of 20% May Cut U.K. Obesity Rate by 180,000
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2013-10-31T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/soda-tax-of-20-may-cut-u-k-obesity-rate-by-180-000.html
A 20 percent tax on sugary drinks in
the U.K. would cut the nation’s obesity rate by 1.3 percent,
with the greatest benefit for people under 30, a study found.  The tax, proposed by the U.K.’s Academy of Medical Royal
Colleges, would result in about 180,000 fewer adults with a  body
mass index  of 30 or more, researchers from the universities of
Oxford and Reading  wrote  in the journal BMJ. Among people ages
16 to 30, who are the greatest consumers of sugary drinks, the
tax would reduce obesity by 7.6 percent, the study showed.  About 26 percent of adults in the U.K. are obese, the
second-highest rate in  Europe  behind  Hungary , which has adopted
taxes on salt and sugar. While other European nations and some
U.S. states tax soft drinks, most levies are less than 10
percent. Today’s findings show that while a tax wouldn’t be a
panacea, it could help reduce the diabetes,  heart disease  and
tooth decay linked with the drinks, the authors wrote.  “The more pressing question is whether policy makers can
implement a tax this high,” Jason Block, an assistant professor
at the  Harvard Medical School ’s obesity prevention program in
 Boston , wrote in  comments  accompanying the study. “We now need
policy makers to act and provide opportunities for real-world
evidence.”  Diet Surveys  The study used data from household spending and diet
surveys, together with systems for estimating the effect of tax
increases on drink purchases, and changes in energy intake on
body mass index. Body mass index is a measure of body fat,
calculated by using a person’s weight and height.  Based on their findings, the researchers predicted that the
tax would reduce the number of overweight people, defined as
those with a BMI of 25 or more, by 285,000, or 0.9 percent.  It would also raise 276 million pounds ($443 million) a
year in revenue and reduce consumption of concentrated sugar-sweetened drinks by 15 percent, according to the study.  The Academy of Medical Royal Colleges, which represents
about 220,000 British doctors, in February  proposed  testing the
tax for a year as one of 10 recommendations for curbing obesity.  The U.K. government’s health department said companies
including  Tesco Plc (TSCO)  and Coca-Cola Co. have agreed to reduce
sugar in their drinks under a voluntary plan aimed at improving
public health.  Reducing Sugar  “The voluntary action we have put in place will help
people to make healthier choices but we keep all international
evidence under review,” the department said in an e-mailed
statement.  Taxing soft drinks won’t curb obesity, partly because its
causes are complex, Gavin Partington, director general of the
 British Soft Drinks Association , said in an e-mailed statement.  “Trying to blame one set of products is misguided,
particularly when they comprise a mere 2 percent of calories in
the average diet,” he said.  The sale of sugar-sweetened drinks in schools is banned in
the U.K., as is advertising them on children’s television.  Soft-drink taxes in France and Ireland have been associated
with reductions in consumption, though their health impact
hasn’t yet been studied, the authors wrote.  A sugar tax in  Denmark  was abandoned in November after it
was criticized for raising prices and driving consumers to shop
in neighboring countries that don’t have the tax.  American Consumers  In the U.S., 34 states and the  District of Columbia  have
food taxes that affect sugar-sweetened drinks, and studies there
have shown that a 20 percent tax would bring about significantly
higher reductions in energy intake than today’s research
predicts. Still, Americans consume more than three times more
energy per person per day from sugar-sweetened drinks than
Britons, the authors wrote.  In September 2012,  New York  City’s Board of Health approved
Mayor  Michael Bloomberg ’s plan to restrict sales of sugary soft
drinks to no more than 16 ounces (454 grams) a cup. In March,
New York Supreme Court Justice Milton Tingling barred the
proposal from becoming law, saying it had too many loopholes and
violated the jurisdiction of the City Council. Bloomberg, the
founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg
LP, has appealed the decision.  Mexico ’s Senate yesterday backed a 1 peso (8 cents) per-liter tax on soft drinks and an 8 percent tax on junk food. The
nation has the highest obesity rate of any major country after
 Egypt , and is the world’s top consumer of soft drinks at 163
liters per capita a year, 40 percent more than the U.S.,
according to the  World Health Organization .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  