-- SoftBank Profit Beats Estimates as Son’s Deals Fuel Growth
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   T a k a s h i   A m a n o
-- 2013-11-01T08:31:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/softbank-profit-beats-estimates-as-son-s-deals-fuel-growth.html
Masayoshi Son, who led deals totaling
$2.7 billion last month, is tapping record revenue at  SoftBank
Corp. (9984)  to underwrite the turnaround of his biggest acquisition
 Sprint Corp. (S)   Sales will reach more than 6 trillion yen ($61 billion) in
the 12 months ending March as Sprint rolls out a new network,
Son said yesterday after reporting quarterly profit that beat
estimates. The Tokyo-based company expects operating income of 1
trillion yen.  SoftBank paid $21.6 billion for Sprint in July before
adding agreements for majority stakes in gamemaker Supercell Oy
and U.S. mobile phone distributor Brightstar Corp. in October as
Son seeks to build a wireless ecosystem for his customers. The
third-largest U.S. carrier plans to spend $16 billion in the
next two years for faster services as it tries to catch up to
AT&T Inc. and  Verizon Wireless .  “We want to be number one not just in handsets but content
and platform,” Son said yesterday. “We want to be the number
one in every aspect.”  Net income rose to 156.7 billion yen in the three months
ended September, according to numbers derived from half year
results reported yesterday by SoftBank.  SoftBank  rose  3.4 percent to 7,550 yen at the close in
 Tokyo . The stock is the fourth best performer on  Japan ’s Nikkei
225 Stock Average so far this year.  GungHo Acquisition  The company’s acquisitions include a stake in game company
 GungHo Online Entertainment Inc. (3765)  and local competitor eAccess
Ltd. to add bandwidth for smartphones.  SoftBank, Japan’s No. 3 wireless carrier, has been involved
in at least 12 deals over the past year, including the July
acquisition of Sprint, as Son targets new growth.  The most recent was a deal to buy 57 percent of Miami-based
handset distributor Brightstar for $1.26 billion, a transaction
targeted to boost SoftBank’s procurement power and improve its
competitiveness both in the U.S. and Japan, the company said
Oct. 18.  “They’ve done a good job of using M&A to grow,” Yoshihiro Nakatani, a senior  fund manager  at Asahi Life Asset Management
Co., said. “They’ve not had any real failures.”  The Japanese company is also set to buy Finland-based
Supercell this month, a deal aimed at strengthening content with
games including “Clash of Clans” and “Hay Day.”  IPhone Sales  Son, the 56-year-old founder of SoftBank, has said he’s
seeking overseas opportunities as there isn’t enough potential
for significant growth in Japan after narrowing the gap with
bigger NTT Docomo Inc. and  KDDI Corp. (9433)  in wireless subscribers.  SoftBank sold the most Apple iPhones in Japan during the
first month of sales for the new 5s and 5c models, beating
Docomo and KDDI, researcher BCN Inc.  said  last week.  SoftBank accounted for 40 percent of Japanese sales of the
two models, which were released in September, while  Docomo (9437)  took
a 34 percent market share and KDDI controlled 26 percent,
according to BCN’s estimate.  Docomo, which added iPhones to its lineup in September in
an attempt to stop losing customers to other carriers, lost
66,800 net users in September, the most subscribers it lost on a
monthly basis. SoftBank added 270,700 that month, according to
the carriers.  Alibaba Earnings  Founded in Tokyo in 1981 as a wholesaler of packaged
computer software, Son’s Internet venture capital company has
been transformed into a full-fledged telecommunication operator
via acquisitions including that of the Japanese unit of  Vodafone
Group Plc. (VOD)   In 2000, SoftBank invested $20 million in Alibaba.com. The
Japanese company now owns about 37 percent of Alibaba Group
Holding Ltd.,  China ’s largest e-commerce provider, whose chief
executive officer, Jack Ma, sits on SoftBank’s  board .  Alibaba is headed toward the biggest initial public
offering since Facebook Inc. and has been valued by investment
banks at as much as $190 billion.  The profit contribution by Alibaba at SoftBank will
probably compensate for losses stemming from Sprint in the
coming few years, Daisaku Masuno, an analyst at Nomura Holdings
Inc., said before the earnings announcement.  Alibaba last month reported second-quarter net income that
more than doubled to $707 million.  Overland Park , Kansas-based Sprint reported Oct. 30 a
third-quarter operating loss of $398 million after the company
shut down its outdated Nextel network and shed 360,000 monthly
subscribers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Amano in Tokyo at 
 tamano6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  