-- South Sudan’s New Refineries to Bring Fuel Independence Closer
-- B y   M a d i n g   N g o r
-- 2013-10-31T21:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/south-sudan-s-new-refineries-to-bring-fuel-independence-closer.html
South Sudan  is set to become almost
self-sufficient in oil products within a year as two refineries
enter production, saving  Africa ’s newest nation foreign exchange
it now uses to buy diesel from neighbors.  “By 2014, we would be 80 percent independent in terms of
requiring energy products from any other country,” Paul Adong
Deng, managing director of state-owned  Nile Petroleum Corp. ,
said in an interview on Oct. 29 in the capital, Juba. “I think
by 2016-17, we will be entirely independent.”  South Sudan’s first refinery, which will process 5,000
barrels a day, will begin operating by Dec. 31 and a second one
will start by the end of 2014, bringing total processing
capacity to 17,000 barrels a day of crude oil, he said.  The facilities are being built in the oil-producing states
of Unity and Upper Nile. The first, in Bentiu, is a joint
venture between Nile Petroleum and  Russia ’s  Safinat , with a 30
percent-70 percent equity split respectively. It cost “under
$100 million,” Deng said.  “We envisage that before year-end, the construction would
have been completed and the commissioning would have taken
place” after a six-month delay caused by the rainy season and
poor road conditions from  Kenya ’s port of Mombasa, through which
the equipment was shipped from Russia, he said. Construction is
yet to start on the larger one in Thiangrial.  South Sudan imports as much as 40 million liters (10.6
million gallons) of fuel a month from neighboring Kenya, Deng
said. About 80 percent of imports are diesel and 20 percent
gasoline.  Sudan Reliance  While South  Sudan  may review a decision to stop an
arrangement under which it was using the refinery near Sudan’s
capital, Khartoum, to process crude that was then trucked back
to the south, Deng ruled out relying on Sudan for its energy
needs for the “foreseeable future,” as a border conflict keeps
bilateral relations tense.  South Sudan seceded from neighboring Sudan in July 2011 and
took three-quarters of the formerly united country’s oil output.
The landlocked country currently exports all its crude, about
220,000 barrels a day, through pipelines across Sudan. A dispute
between the two neighbors over export revenue halted South
Sudanese production last year, cutting the country’s economy by
half to $9.34 billion, according to World Bank data.  “With the refinery operational, ultimately we will no
longer continue under the threat of shutdown,” Information
Minister Mikael Makuei Lueth said in an interview “Even if they
shut down we will continue to refine our oil production.”  Fuel Smuggling  Oil product smuggling across the northern border will
probably to drop after Sudan’s government removed subsidies on
fuel, Deng said. The removal of fuel subsidies triggered
protests in Sudan as the cost of energy and transport rose.  Henry Dillah Odwar, who heads the parliamentary committee
on energy, said South Sudan still needs to build roads from the
refineries to Juba so it can bring fuel to the capital in the
rainy season. Nile Petroleum is studying the viability of
transporting the products by “special barges” as they work on
constructing all-weather roads, Deng said.  South Sudan has sub-Saharan Africa’s biggest oil reserves
after Nigeria and  Angola , according to  BP Plc (BP/)  data. Its low-sulfur crude, prized by Japanese buyers as a cleaner-burning
fuel for power generation, is pumped mainly by China National
Petroleum Corp.,  Malaysia ’s Petroliam Nasional Bhd. and India’s
 Oil & Natural Gas Corp. (ONGC)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Mading Ngor in Juba at 
 mngor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  