-- Starbucks Forecast Trails Estimates as Asia Sales Gains Slow
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n   a n d   R e n e e   D u d l e y
-- 2013-10-31T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/starbucks-forecast-trails-estimates-as-asia-sales-gains-slow.html
Starbucks Corp. (SBUX) , the world’s largest
coffee-shop chain, repeated a forecast for fiscal 2014 profit
that was lower than analysts’ estimates after sales gains slowed
in  Asia .  Profit excluding certain items will be as much as $2.65 a
share in the year ending in September, the Seattle-based company
said in a statement yesterday, repeating guidance it gave in
July. Analysts projected $2.67, on average. Starbucks also said
full-year sales will rise 10 percent or more, compared with a
previous forecast for growth of 10 percent to 13 percent.  Chief Executive Officer  Howard Schultz  has been expanding
in  China  to tap growing demand from coffee drinkers in the
world’s most-populous nation. Sales at Starbucks stores open at
least 13 months rose 8 percent in its China and Asia Pacific
region in the fiscal fourth quarter ended Sept. 29. That was
slower than the 9 percent gain in the third quarter and trailed
analysts’ average estimate for a 9.1 percent increase.  “Expectations were high going into the quarter,” Sharon Zackfia, an analyst at William Blair & Co. in Chicago, said in a
telephone interview yesterday.  Starbucks fell 2.5 percent to $78.80 in extended trading
yesterday after gaining 1.5 percent at the close in  New York .
The shares have  climbed  51 percent this year, compared with a 21
percent rise for the  Standard & Poor’s  500 Restaurants Index.  Net income  in the quarter increased to $481.1 million, or
63 cents a share, from a year earlier, Starbucks said. Analysts
estimated 60 cents a share, the average of 27 projections
compiled by Bloomberg.  Store Sales  Comparable-store sales rose 7 percent globally, topping the
6.7 percent average estimate of analysts surveyed by Consensus
Metrix, a researcher owned by Wayne, New Jersey-based Kaul
Advisory Group. Sales on that basis increased 8 percent in the
Americas and 2 percent in  Europe , the  Middle East  and Africa.
Analysts projected gains of 7.1 percent in the Americas and 1.7
percent in Europe.  “The U.S. has been consistently, phenomenally strong for
us,” Chief Financial Officer Troy Alstead said in an interview
yesterday.  Same-store sales are considered an indicator of a
retailer’s growth because they include only older, established
locations.  Starbucks said yesterday it plans to add 1,500 new
locations in its fiscal 2014, up from a previous projection for
1,400 new stores. The company raised its quarterly dividend 24
percent to 26 cents a share.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net ;
Renee Dudley in New York at 
 rdudley6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Orland at 
 korland@bloomberg.net  