-- Suncor Seeks Cost Cutting With Robot Trucks in Oil-Sands Mine
-- B y   R e b e c c a   P e n t y
-- 2013-10-31T04:00:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/suncor-seeks-cost-cutting-with-robot-trucks-in-oil-sands-mine.html
As part of cost cuts at  Suncor
Energy Inc. (SU) , Chief Executive Officer  Steve Williams  has scrapped
items such as a C$11.6 billion ($11 billion) oil-sands plant.
Now, he’s looking at savings from mining with robot trucks.  Suncor,  Canada ’s largest energy company by market value, is
the first oil-sands operator to test haul trucks run by
computers, said Gary Bunio, Suncor’s general manager of
technology development. The move follows steps by miners
including  Rio Tinto Plc (RIO)  to replace human-operated trucks with
driverless vehicles to lower the cost to produce ore.  Using autonomous haul trucks can increase productivity and
reduce fuel and maintenance costs by 15 percent, John Meech, a
mining engineering professor at the University of British
Columbia who has researched the truck systems, said yesterday in
a phone interview.  Haul trucks used in mining are each the size of a three-story building and cost C$4 million, with tires that are
C$50,000 to replace, Meech said. The autonomous trucks don’t
have drivers, who sometimes make C$150,000 a year in the oil
sands area, he said.  One truck that operates with global positioning system
technology is hauling bitumen and driving the roads of Suncor’s
Steepbank open-pit mine in a trial. Suncor may replace some or
all of its haul trucks with autonomous vehicles over five years,
provided additional tests are successful, Bunio said in an Oct.
28 phone interview.  Williams, Suncor’s CEO since May 2012, has focused on
cutting costs including halting the C$11.6 billion Voyageur
upgrader with  Total SA. (FP)  Two months into his term, he said Suncor
may delay a plan to expand the company’s production to 1 million
barrels a day by 2020.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  