-- Suzlon Energy Nears Agreement With Bondholders, CFO Says
-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2013-10-31T08:01:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/suzlon-energy-nears-agreement-with-bondholders-cfo-says.html
Suzlon Energy Ltd. (SUEL) , the wind-turbine
maker that suffered  India ’s biggest convertible-bond default
last year, said it’s nearing an agreement with creditors.  Suzlon is “not very far from a solution” that will cover
all of its bonds, including those maturing in 2014 and 2016,
Group Chief Financial Officer Kirti Vagadia said by telephone.  The company failed to repay $209 million of notes last
October after turbine prices slumped amid overcapacity. That
triggered a cross-default clause allowing investors holding its
2014 and 2016 bonds to demand early repayment of about $265
million. Bondholders haven’t yet exercised that right, Suzlon
said in its quarterly results yesterday.  “There is no pressure from lenders,” Vagadia said,
denying that creditors may force Suzlon to sell part of its
German unit REpower Systems SE to pay down debt. “They
understand the value of all the assets the company holds.”  Vagadia attributed the lengthy negotiations to the
complexity of dealing with four sets of bondholders across
different regions and regulatory regimes. Local lenders led by
 State Bank of India , which agreed to restructure 95 billion
rupees ($1.5 billion) of Suzlon debt in April, also stand to get
paid before bondholders, according to Elara Capital Plc.  Suzlon targets $400 million in asset sales to help raise
cash. The Pune-based company is in talks with buyers about its
SE Forge unit, which it hopes to divest by the end of the fiscal
year in March, Vagadia said.  It’s too early for Suzlon to approach  NRG Energy Inc. (NRG)  about
recovering a $217 million payment for turbines supplied to
Edison International for an Illinois wind farm in 2009, Vagadia
said. NRG Energy agreed this month to buy most of the assets of
 Edison International (EIX) ’s bankrupt wind unit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  