-- Swiss Stocks Little Changed as Geberit Rises on Earnings
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2013-10-31T09:03:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/swiss-stocks-little-changed-as-geberit-rises-on-earnings.html
Swiss stocks  were little changed,
with the Swiss Market Index heading for a second monthly gain,
as  Geberit AG (GEBN)  reported better-than-expected quarterly earnings.  Geberit rose 4.3 percent as the maker of toilets and
plumbing also confirmed its full-year forecasts for sales and
profitability.  Novartis AG (NOVN)  fell, for the biggest drag on the
 SMI, (SMI)  as a gauge of European health-care companies declined.  The SMI retreated less than 0.1 percent to 8,225.74 at 10
a.m. in Zurich. The equity benchmark has climbed 2.5 percent
this month as U.S. lawmakers agreed to increase the federal
government’s debt limit and end a partial shutdown. The broader
Swiss Performance Index slipped 0.1 percent today.  The volume of shares changing hands in SMI-listed companies
was 24 percent lower than the average of the past 30 days,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  In the U.S. yesterday, the  Federal Open Market Committee 
refrained from reducing its $85 billion of monthly bond
purchases. The policy makers dropped their warning from last
month’s meeting that “the tightening of financial conditions
observed in recent months -- if sustained -- could slow the pace
of improvement in the economy and labor market”.  The Fed will probably wait until its March meeting to begin
slowing its monthly asset purchases, according to a Bloomberg
News survey of economists before the Oct. 29-30 meeting. The 16-day shutdown of the U.S. government earlier this month will
probably reduce annualized economic growth in the fourth quarter
by 0.3 percentage points, according to the survey, which was
conducted on Oct. 17-18.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  