-- Syria Destroys Chemical Plants Within Deadline: Monitors
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y   a n d   T e r r y   A t l a s
-- 2013-10-31T17:20:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/syria-destroys-chemical-plants-within-deadline-monitors.html
Syria  has met a deadline for the
destruction of chemical weapons production facilities, according
to international monitors, in the biggest step so far under a
United Nations disarmament plan.  President Bashar al-Assad’s regime must now submit and have
approved by Nov. 15 a detailed plan to eliminate its stockpiles,
the  Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons  said in
an e-mailed  statement  today. The organization is satisfied that
it has verified and seen destroyed all of Syria’s declared
“critical” production plants, it said.  Syria agreed to give up its chemical arsenal under a
Russian initiative  endorsed  by the  United Nations Security
Council  last month. The deal led the U.S. to withdraw threats of
military action to punish Assad’s government for its alleged use
of sarin gas near Damascus in August. Syrian opposition groups,
who have been fighting to unseat Assad for 2 1/2 years, say the
attack killed more than 1,400 people.  The plan aims to remove all chemical weapons and related
equipment by the end of June. The OPCW deployed teams in Syria
to ensure that all production sites and equipment were unusable
by Nov. 1.  ‘Immediate Capabilities’  That initial step still leaves Syria with “its entire
remaining stockpile of functioning chemical weapons,” and has
“little to no impact on their immediate capabilities,” David Reeths, director at IHS Jane’s Consulting, said today in
response to e-mailed questions.  While the speed of the inspectors work is remarkable, they
are only certifying destruction “of Syrian self-declared
equipment from self-declared sites,” Reeths said.  The OPCW says its inspectors visited 21 of 23 declared
sites. The others weren’t visited due to security concerns.
Syria said those facilities had already been abandoned and any
relevant material was removed to other sites which were
inspected.  The U.S. this week received a classified copy of Syria’s
700-page inventory document, and will examine whether Assad’s
government may be concealing information from the OPCW, Thomas Countryman, the U.S. assistant secretary of state for
international security and nonproliferation, said today in
 Washington .  Countryman said the removal of large quantities of
chemicals, mostly not weaponized, by the June deadline will
present “big logistical problems.”  Beyond the perils of moving the chemicals though a war
zone, no country has publicly agreed to take the materials for
destruction.  Norway  last week said it turned down a U.S. request
because it lacked the capability to handle the chemical waste.  The OPCW’s head, Ahmet Uzumcu, today described the Syria
mission as “the most challenging mission ever undertaken” by
the group.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net ;
Terry Atlas in Washington at 
 tatlas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  