-- U.K. Seeks Study Into Making Energy-Market Manipulation a Crime
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2013-10-31T16:23:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/u-k-seeks-study-into-making-energy-market-manipulation-a-crime.html
The U.K. sought to calm voter anger
over inflation-busting energy prices by studying whether to make
market manipulation a criminal instead of a civil offense.  The government also asked regulator Ofgem to report in the
Spring on how to increase the information that suppliers give in
financial accounts, around the same period as an annual review
reports on competition, Energy Secretary  Ed Davey  said today.  “I intend to consult on the introduction of criminal
sanctions for anyone found manipulating energy markets and
harming the consumer interest,” Davey told Parliament today.  While it’s already a crime to operate a cartel, sanctions
for manipulation of electricity and gas markets, transposed from
 European Union law , are civil not criminal, according to the
Department of Energy and Climate Change. Criminal sanctions
would allow for prosecutions and so may serve as a greater
deterrent, though the burden of proof would also be higher.  Davey’s announcement comes after four of the so-called Big
Six suppliers raised prices at three to four times the inflation
rate within weeks, inflaming a political controversy over living
costs. Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s coalition government plans
to make it easier to switch to competing cheaper tariffs, after
the Labour opposition pledged to freeze the charges.  “No amount of tinkering with tariffs, telling people to
shop around” will sort out the market problems,  Caroline Flint ,
Labour’s energy spokeswoman, said today in Parliament.  Lacking Transparency  Scottish Power  Ltd. became the fourth supplier to raise its
prices on Oct. 24, following similar announcements by  Centrica
Plc (CNA) ’s British Gas, RWE Npower Plc and SSE Plc.  Parliament’s energy committee including lawmakers from the
three main parties summoned company officials to explain those
gains, and today demanded to see their costs and profit margins.  Some markets for energy lack the transparency of financial
products such as stocks and  government bonds . Three of  Europe ’s
biggest oil explorers including  BP Plc (BP/)  were probed by European
regulators over potential manipulation of the oil market in May.  The utilities blame gains on increases in natural-gas costs
and levies for green and social programs. Davey said wholesale
gas prices not green fees were responsible for higher tariffs.  Energy and climate change policies make up about 9 percent,
or 112 pounds ($180), of current average annual bills, DECC
figures show. Wholesale energy costs account for 47 percent of
the total and networks 20 percent.  Energy Minister  Michael Fallon  said yesterday that funding
green levies with general taxation instead of adding them to
consumer bills is being studied as a way to curb energy charges
that have surged by 30 percent in real terms since 2007.  Davey today urged the industry to reduce the time it takes
consumers to switch suppliers to boost competition. He’ll hold
talks with EON SE, SSE, Scottish Power and smaller companies on
how to speed up the process to one week from five, or as fast as
24 hours, and will “compel those who drag their heels.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  