-- U.K. Consumer Confidence Index Declined in October, GfK Says
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2013-10-31T00:05:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/u-k-consumer-confidence-index-declined-in-october-gfk-says.html
U.K.  consumer confidence  declined in
October as the outlook for the economic situation in the coming
year worsened.  A consumer sentiment index by GfK NOP Ltd. fell 1 point to
minus 11 from minus 10 in September, which was a six-year high,
the London-based group said in a report published today. Its
measure of prospects for the broader economy over the next 12
months dropped 5 points to minus 2.  “This may simply be a pause for breath,” said Nick Moon,
managing director of social research at GfK. “It will be
interesting to see if sentiment has run away with itself and
there is a further drop next month.”  The U.S. government shutdown and debt-ceiling negotiations
this month may have damped a spurt of enthusiasm driven by the
U.K. economic recovery. Growth accelerated in the third quarter
and may prompt  Bank of England  officials to raise their
forecasts when they publish new projections next month.  GfK’s index of sentiment on peoples’ personal financial
situation in the next 12 months fell 3 points to minus 2. A
gauge of their views on their situation over the previous year
dropped 1 point to minus 17.  A measure of the general economic situation over the last
12 months was unchanged at minus 25. The only increase was in
the index on the climate for making major purchases, which
increased 3 points to minus 11.  The  U.K. economy expanded  0.8 percent in the third quarter,
up from 0.7 percent in the previous three months. BOE Governor
 Mark Carney  said last week officials won’t tighten monetary
policy until they see traction in the recovery.  GfK interviewed 1,999 people for the European Commission
from Oct. 4 to Oct. 20. The margin of error is plus or minus 2
points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  