-- U.K. House-Price Growth Accelerated in October, Nationwide Says
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2013-10-31T07:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/u-k-house-price-growth-accelerated-in-october-nationwide-says.html
U.K.  house-price growth  picked up
this month as demand for new homes outstripped the supply
available for sale, boosted by low  interest rates  and government
incentives.  Prices rose 1 percent from the previous month to an average
173,678 pounds ($279,000), Swindon, England-based Nationwide
Building Society said in a statement today. Prices are up 5.8
percent from a year earlier.  House-price gains across the country have raised concerns
that Britain is facing a potential bubble after Prime Minister
 David Cameron  bought forward a plan to help more people onto the
housing ladder. Nationwide said prices are still 7 percent below
their peak in 2007, and the risks from the  property market  will
depend on the balance between demand and supply.  “The U.K. housing market appears to be following the more
resilient upward trend evident in the wider economy in recent
quarters,”  Robert Gardner , chief economist at Nationwide, said
in the statement. “The risk is that if demand continues to
strengthen while the supply of property remains constrained
affordability could become stretched.”  On a three-month basis, prices are up 2.5 percent from the
previous period, Nationwide said.  Former Financial Services Authority Chairman  Adair Turner 
said last week that Britain’s housing policy risks a repeat of
the debt-fueled binge that lead to the credit crisis. The
 International Monetary Fund  said the government’s Help to Buy
program could fuel another property bubble.  BOE Review  The government has asked the  Bank of England  to conduct an
annual review of its housing plans, and Barclays Plc Chief
Executive Officer  Antony Jenkins  said yesterday he’s confident
they will act to prevent risk building.  “We’re supportive of Help to Buy initiatives,” he said.
“I have said in the past that we want to be careful in the U.K.
about creating some sort of housing bubble but I’m reassured by
fact that regulators are very much on that and will actively
work to prevent that from happening.”  Other house-price indicators are also showing a pickup in
values.  Hometrack Ltd. (UKHMYY)  said this week prices in England and
Wales rose 3.1 percent from a year earlier, the biggest gain
since 2007.  Mortgage lending has risen to a 5 1/2-year high after
access to home loans was helped by the BOE’s Funding for Lending
program and interest rates at a record low.  “Typical mortgage servicing costs remain modest by
historic standards thanks to the ultra-low level of interest
rates,” Gardner said. “A typical mortgage payment for a first-time buyer is currently equal to around 29 percent of take-home
pay, in line with the long-term average.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  