-- U.K. Fracking Review Sees Low Risk to Health From Shale Drilling
-- B y   N i d a a   B a k h s h
-- 2013-10-31T14:43:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/u-k-fracking-review-sees-low-risk-to-health-from-shale-drilling.html
Risks to the public from shale-gas
drilling are expected to be low as long as operations are well-regulated, a U.K. government-backed body said in a draft  report .  “Public Health  England  anticipates a low risk to public
health from direct releases of chemicals and radioactive
material if shale gas extraction is properly operated and
regulated,” it said, seeking comments for the final report.  Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s government has proposed the
world’s most generous tax system to encourage drilling of U.K.
shale deposits as it seeks to cut dependence on imports, boost
growth and cut consumers’ energy costs. The plans are opposed by
those concerned that the hydraulic fracturing operations will
contaminate water supplies, and increase traffic and noise.  Fracking blasts water, chemicals and sand underground at
high pressure to break open shale rock and release trapped fuel.  “Good on-site management and appropriate regulation of all
aspects of exploratory drilling, gas capture as well as the use
and storage of fracking fluid is essential to minimize the risks
to the environment and health,” said John Harrison, director of
PHE’s centre for radiation, chemical and environmental hazards.
The body is a unit of the U.K. government Department of Health.  The draft noted that while there’s a lack of peer-reviewed
research into the industry, well-publicized problems in the U.S.
appear to be a result of inadequate operations and regulation.
Such problems may not be replicated in the U.K. because of the
different conditions, particularly the regulatory environment.  Borehole Leakage  “Most evidence suggests that contamination of groundwater
as a result of borehole leakage is an area of concern, but that
contamination of groundwater from the underground fracking
process itself is unlikely,” according to the draft. “However,
other impacts such as spills and accidents above ground,
emissions to air etc. are also potentially significant.”  The report didn’t cover concerns over water extraction or
sustainability, noise, traffic or visual impact from fracking.  “Low risk is not the same as no risk,” Helen Rimmer,
energy campaigner at Friends of the Earth, said in an e-mail.
“Evidence suggests fracking has contaminated drinking water in
 Australia  and the U.S. There’s no guarantee it won’t happen
here - especially given gaping holes in regulations.”  The U.K. said in June that fields in northern England held
as much as 1,300 trillion cubic feet of gas, enough to meet
demand for almost 50 years. Protesters in July and August held
up work at Cuadrilla Resources Ltd.’s site in southern England.  “The U.K. has the most robust regulatory regime in the
world for shale gas and companies will only be granted
permission to frack for shale if their operations are safe,”
Energy Minister  Michael Fallon  said today in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nidaa Bakhsh in London at 
 nbakhsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  