-- U.S. Allows $500 Carry-Over in Health Flexible Spending Plans
-- B y   I a n   K a t z   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s
-- 2013-10-31T21:36:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/u-s-allows-500-carry-over-in-health-flexible-spending-plans.html
The U.S. loosened a rule on health
flexible spending accounts to allow plan participants to carry
over as much as $500 of their balances into a new year.  The Internal Revenue Service and Treasury Department
changed the “use-or-lose” stipulation, ending a policy of
almost 30 years that required employees to forfeit funds that
are set aside for expenses related to health care.  The rule is “a step forward for hard-working Americans who
wisely plan for health-care expenses for the coming year,”
Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew said today in a statement.  Flexible spending arrangements, or FSAs, are a benefit
offered by employers that allow workers to pay some medical out-of-pocket expenses with pretax dollars. Typically money in an
FSA must be spent within a year to 14 1/2 months or it’s
forfeited.  “No longer is there a fear going forward that you could
lose the money at the end of the year,” Joe Jackson, chief
executive officer at  WageWorks Inc. (WAGE) , which administers benefit
accounts for employers, said in an interview. “The biggest
deterrent has been the use-it-or-lose-it proposition.”  About 35 million Americans use FSAs, Jackson said.
WageWorks, based in San Mateo,  California , rose 2.9 percent
today to $51.21 in New York trading.  The U.S. Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act set a
$2,500 cap on contributions to FSAs starting in 2013 and
prohibited using contributions in them for purchases of over-the-counter drugs without a prescription.  Employers are allowed to give workers a grace period for
unused funds and under the new rule can continue to do so. The
rule allows FSAs to have either a grace period or a carry-over,
though not both.  “This was a good decision by the Treasury Department,”
Senator Orrin Hatch, a Utah Republican, said in a statement.
“Allowing Americans who have one of these accounts to roll $500
over to the following year just makes sense and will give people
more help to pay for out-of-pocket health-care costs.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Collins in  New York  at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  