-- U.S. Wind Power Slumps in 2013 After Tax Credit Drives 2012 Boom
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n
-- 2013-10-31T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/u-s-wind-power-slumps-in-2013-after-tax-credit-drives-2012-boom.html
U.S. utilities agreed to buy 7.6
gigawatts of wind capacity this year through September, as
construction in 2013 slowed to a trickle after a federal tax
credit expired at the end of 2012, the  American Wind Energy
Association  said.  About 70 megawatts of wind farms were connected to the grid
in the third quarter, a 96 percent decline from a year earlier,
according to a report today from the Washington-based trade
group.  Developers rushed to complete projects last year to qualify
for the production tax credit, leaving few wind farms in the
construction pipeline this year. The credit expired Dec. 31 and
received a one-year renewal the next day as part of a U.S.
budget deal.  “We knew the slow-down was coming when the PTC expired and
here it is,” Elizabeth Salerno, AWEA’s chief economist, said in
an interview. “The good news is that utilities are signing new
contracts faster than I’ve seen in a long time.”  Developers installed 13.1 gigawatts of wind capacity last
year, surpassing natural gas plants for the first time to become
the largest source of new U.S. electricity.  Utilities agreed to purchase wind turbines or signed
contracts to buy power from wind farms with total capacity of
7.6 gigawatts in the first three quarters of the year.  Power prices for some of those contracts were as low as $25
a megawatt-hour, cheaper than any other new sources of
electricity, Salerno said. That’s prompting companies to buy
more capacity than they initially planned when issuing requests
for proposals.  “Some utilities issued their RFPs but then signed up for
double or triple the amount,” Salerno said.  Wind farms that begin construction by the end of 2013 will
qualify for the 2.3 cent a kilowatt-hour tax credit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Martin in  New York  at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  