-- U.S. Mortgage Rates at 4-Month Low Fall for Second Week
-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 2013-10-31T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/u-s-mortgage-rates-at-4-month-low-fall-for-second-week.html
 U.S. mortgage rates dropped for a
second week, keeping borrowing costs at a four-month low as the
 Federal Reserve  signaled that it would press on with its
stimulus plan aimed at holding rates down.  The average rate for a 30-year fixed mortgage fell to 4.1
percent the week ended today from 4.13 percent,  Freddie Mac  said
in a statement. The average 15-year rate declined to 3.2 percent
from 3.24 percent.  Mortgage rates have fallen from two-year high in August as
weaker-than-expected economic data drives investors to the
safety of  government bonds  that guide consumer debt. The Fed
said yesterday it will continue with $85 billion in monthly bond
purchases, saying it needs to see more evidence that the economy
will continue to improve. Confidence among U.S. consumers
declined in October by the most since August 2011 as the budget
impasse and debt-ceiling negotiations in  Washington  took a toll
on outlooks.  “For the next several months, we’re likely to see housing
markets, at best, flat and maybe down a little bit while we are
awaiting a pickup in the economy,” David Berson, chief
economist for Nationwide Insurance in Columbus, Ohio, said in a
telephone interview yesterday.  Contracts (USPHTMOM)  to buy previously owned homes declined 5.6
percent in September, the most in more than three years,
according to the National Association of Realtors.  Buyer competition for a limited  supply  of homes has been
fueling price gains. The S&P/Case-Shiller 20-city index showed
prices increased 12.8 percent in August from a year earlier.  A monthly measure of prices by the  Federal Housing Finance
Agency  increased 0.3 percent increase in August from July, the
smallest gain in 11 months, as more homeowners listed their
properties for sale.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prashant Gopal in Boston at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  