-- U.S. Rebuffs Claims NSA Spying Is Unconstitutional
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2013-10-31T20:55:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/u-s-rebuffs-claims-nsa-spying-is-unconstitutional.html
The Obama administration said claims
that National Security Agency surveillance of telephone calls is
unconstitutional are “baseless” and requests by civil rights
groups for a court order ending the practice should be rejected.  Judges on the secret Foreign Intelligence Surveillance
Court in  Washington  have authorized the collection of
information about U.S. citizens’ telephone calls on 35 separate
occasions to identify unknown terrorist operatives, who may be
located in the U.S., and prevent terrorist attacks, Justice
Department attorneys said in a filing today in federal court in
 San Francisco . Civil rights groups challenged the spying in a
complaint filed in July.  “Plaintiffs’ claims that the challenged collection of
telephony metadata is not authorized” and “violates their
constitutional rights are baseless,” Marcia Berman, an agency
attorney, said in a case management filing.  Lawyers for privacy group Electronic Frontier Foundation
alleged in the lawsuit that surveillance of phone calls is
unconstitutional and illegally erodes the free speech rights of
religious, environmental and human rights groups.  The claims are based on the bulk collection of records
before the government begins selecting communications “it
targets for further examination,” Richard Wiebe, an EFF
attorney, said in today’s status report filing.  The two sides asked U.S. District Judge  Jeffrey White  to
schedule a Feb. 7 hearing on the government’s motion to dismiss
the case and EFF’s request for a partial judgment in its favor.  The case is First Unitarian Church of  Los Angeles  v.
National Security Agency, 13-cv-03287, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of  California  (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in federal court in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  