-- U.S. Weighs Social-Media Scans for Clues to Rogue Workers
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   M i l l e r
-- 2013-10-31T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/u-s-weighs-social-media-scans-for-clues-to-rogue-workers.html
The U.S. government is studying
whether it can scour social-media websites for clues about
potential threats from workers such as Edward Snowden and the
Washington Navy Yard shooter.  Both Snowden, a former National Security Agency contractor
who leaked government secrets, and Aaron Alexis, who shot and
killed 12 people, had security clearances. The cases have
exposed a flawed system of vetting such employees, some of whom
are slipping through the cracks.  The pilot studies, which looked at the feasibility of using
automated records checks as well as social-media websites, have
turned up “actionable information,” Brian Prioletti, an
assistant director in the Office of the National
Counterintelligence Executive, said in testimony prepared for a
congressional hearing tomorrow.  The tests also “indicate that retrieving, analyzing and
processing the data is likely to be resource intensive,” he
said.  Prioletti is one of five government officials planning to
testify before the Senate  Homeland Security  and Governmental
Affairs Committee more than a month after the Navy Yard
shootings.  Alexis, a 34-year-old subcontractor employee who was shot
dead by police on Sept. 16, obtained a secret-level clearance
from the Navy in March 2008 and kept it even with three arrests
and a history of mental illness.  Snowden, a former  Booz Allen Hamilton Holding Corp. (BAH) 
employee who leaked information on U.S. surveillance programs,
had a top-secret clearance.  ‘Counterintelligence Risk’  Almost 5 million federal and contract workers have
clearances. Those with top-secret clearances get reinvestigated
once every five years, with less frequent reviews at lower
clearance levels.  “The time interval between periodic reinvestigations
leaves the U.S. government potentially uninformed as to behavior
that poses a security or counterintelligence risk,” Prioletti
said.  Both Snowden and Alexis were vetted by contractor USIS, a
unit of  Falls Church , Virginia-based Altegrity Inc., that does
many of the government’s background checks. Those reviews are
required for clearances.  The Justice Department today joined a whistle-blower
lawsuit against the company. USIS is accused in the complaint in
federal court in Montgomery,  Alabama , of failing to perform
quality control reviews in connection with its background
investigations for the U.S. Office of Personnel Management.  ‘Damage Assessments’  The Office of the Director of National Intelligence is also
working on a “continuous evaluation” tool that would ensure
timely sharing of information across agencies, Prioletti said.  “Damage assessments regarding individuals involved in
unauthorized disclosures of classified information or acts of
workplace violence have uncovered information that was not
discovered during the existing security clearance process,”
Prioletti said in the prepared remarks. “Timely knowledge of
such information might have prompted a security review or
increased monitoring of the individual.”  Government employees and contractors holding security
clearances would be subject to random background checks under a
proposal today from two Democratic and two Republican senators.  The draft measure would also initiate a review of public
records and other databases to identify any information that
might affect individuals currently holding a security clearance,
according to the office of Senator  Claire McCaskill , a Missouri
Democrat.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Miller in Washington at 
 kmiller01@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  