-- MUFG's Morgan Stanley Ties Deepen With Private Bank Stake
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e   a n d   R u s s e l l   W a r d
-- 2013-10-31T08:35:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/mufg-s-morgan-stanley-ties-deepen-with-private-bank-stake.html
Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group
Inc. (8306) ’s securities joint venture with  Morgan Stanley (MS)  will take a
majority stake in the Japanese bank’s wealth-management
business, deepening ties between the two firms.  Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co. will hold 75
percent of the private banking unit of Japan’s biggest lender,
the two companies said in a statement in Tokyo today, without
disclosing a price. Mitsubishi UFJ’s main commercial banking
unit will hold the remaining 25 percent.  Mitsubishi UFJ, which owns 22 percent of Morgan Stanley,
will continue to run the business, which offers investing
services to wealthy individuals in Japan, a person briefed on
the matter said before the announcement. New York-based Morgan
Stanley will provide research and investment products when the
partnership takes effect in January, the person said.  Morgan Stanley Chief Executive Officer  James Gorman , 55,
has pointed to its ties with Mitsubishi UFJ as a strategic
advantage as the world’s third-largest economy expands. The
companies set up a pair of investment-banking ventures in Japan
in 2010, two years after the Asian lender invested $9 billion
the U.S. firm to help it stay afloat in the financial crisis.  Japanese households, which hold most of their $16 trillion
of  financial assets  in cash, may shift more of their money to
equities as market prospects improve, according to a September
report by  Cap Gemini SA (CAP)  and Royal Bank of  Canada . The country’s
stocks are the best performers among major developed markets
this year as Prime Minister Shinzo Abe tries to spark  inflation 
with fiscal and monetary stimulus.  Credit Suisse  Credit Suisse Group AG, Switzerland’s second-biggest bank,
last year bought  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ’s Japanese private banking
operations and began taking over Standard Chartered Plc’s
wealth-management accounts in the country.  Mitsubishi UFJ’s wealth-management business was previously
a joint venture between Mitsubishi UFJ and  Bank of America
Corp. ’s Merrill Lynch brokerage. Charlotte, North Carolina-based
Bank of America last year agreed to sell its 49 percent stake
back to Mitsubishi UFJ.  The unit’s name will change to Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan
Stanley PB Securities Co. from Mitsubishi UFJ Merrill Lynch PB
Securities Co., according to the statement. Its head office will
move to the Otemachi business district in Tokyo from Nihonbashi.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net ;
Russell Ward in  Tokyo  at 
 rward16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  