-- Hugo Boss Quarterly Earnings Miss Forecasts on Wholesale
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2013-10-31T07:11:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/hugo-boss-quarterly-earnings-miss-forecasts-on-wholesale.html
Hugo Boss AG (BOSS) , the German luxury
clothing-maker, reported earnings that missed analysts estimates
as a difficult market environment in China and a weakening
wholesale business offset higher retail sales.  Third-quarter earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation, amortization and one-time items rose 5 percent to
173.1 million euros ($237.3 million), Metzingen-based Hugo Boss
said in a  statement  today. The average estimate of 11 analysts
in a Bloomberg survey was 174.1 million euros.  “Hugo Boss has systematically addressed the difficult
market environment,” Chief Executive Officer Claus Dietrich Lahrs said in the statement. “Demand in our own stores picked
up noticeably in the third quarter compared to the first half
year. We are therefore anticipating strong growth in sales and
earnings in the fourth quarter.”  Hugo Boss also adjusted its full-year sales forecast,
saying revenue on a currency-adjusted basis will rise 6 percent
to 8 percent this year, with operating profit increasing at a
similar rate. The company previously expected revenue adjusted
Ebitda to rise at a high single-digit rate this year.  The market environment in  China  remains “tense,” Hugo
Boss said. Competitor Kering SA said this month that sales at
its Gucci luxury-goods unit in China fell in the third quarter.
Prada SpA, the Italian owner of the Miu Miu and Church’s luxury
brands, reported first-half profit that missed estimates last
month as demand for luxury goods cooled in China, the world’s
second-largest economy.  Revenue Rises  Third-quarter sales rose 1.8 percent to 657.9 million
euros. The average estimate of 15 analysts was 674.9 million
euros. Wholesale revenue dropped 8 percent, adjusted for
currency effects, while retail sales gained 23 percent on the
same basis.  The gross margin, the proportion of sales left after
subtracting production costs, rose to 63.5 percent from 60.1
percent, Hugo Boss said.  The retailer is targeting revenue of 3 billion euros and
Ebitda of 750 million euros in 2015, with the retail business
representing at least 55 percent of revenue by then.  Hugo Boss shares rose 0.6 percent to 94.26 euros in
Frankfurt trading yesterday. The stock has gained 18 percent
this year.  Hugo Boss is controlled by Permira Advisers LLP. Permira,
based in  London , acquired in 2007 a majority holding in
Valentino Fashion Group SpA, Hugo Boss’s parent company at the
time. The private-equity firm owns about 56 percent of Hugo Boss
after selling a 10 percent stake in an accelerated bookbuilding
in May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  