-- Ukraine Vows to Curb Reserves Plunge as IMF Repeats Loan Demands
-- B y   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a
-- 2013-10-31T16:54:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/ukraine-vows-to-curb-reserves-plunge-as-imf-repeats-loan-demands.html
Ukraine pledged to stem declines in
its foreign reserves next year as the  International Monetary
Fund  said it wouldn’t ease conditions for a new loan amid a
third recession since 2008.  Borrowing will match or exceed the planned $7.1 billion of
foreign-denominated debt repayments, Halyna Pakhachuk, head of
the  Finance Ministry ’s department debt, said today at a Fitch
Ratings conference in the capital,  Kiev . If markets improve,
Ukraine may sell $1 billion to $2 billion of Eurobonds in 2014
and may borrow as much as $1 billion from  China , she said.  “It’s difficult for Ukraine to tap international markets
now as yields exceed 10 percent, while we can borrow at no more
than 9 percent,” Pakhachuk said. “That’s why we’re looking for
other sources of financing.”  Ukraine’s  economy  slipped into recession in the third
quarter as industrial production plummeted amid weaker demand
for exports such as steel. The government has been discussing a
third IMF bailout since 2008 for more than a year, rejecting
demands by the lender to cut household heating subsidies as
President  Viktor Yanukovych  prepares for elections in 2015.  Yields on Ukrainian dollar debt due 2017 rose to 10.688
percent, the highest level since Oct. 15, as of 5:08 p.m. in
Kiev, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The hryvnia fell
to 8.1900 per dollar from 8.1875 yesterday.  IMF Demands  An IMF mission left Kiev this week, with negotiations over
a new $15 billion loan continuing. In a statement today, the
Washington-based lender urged “ambitious fiscal consolidation”
and reiterated demands on energy tariffs and the hryvnia.  “We advise a significant up-front increase in gas and
heating tariffs for households and adoption of a schedule for
further increases until cost recovery is reached,” it said. “A
more flexible  exchange rate  would boost Ukraine’s export
performance and economic growth.”  Ukraine is seeking to sign an association agreement with
the European Union next month, a move that’s angered  Russia  and
triggered threats of trade blockages. The 28-member bloc is in
talks with the IMF on providing standby financing to Ukraine
should the country come under economic pressure from Russia,
Reuters  reported today , citing unnamed EU officials.  Ukraine’s gross domestic product fell 0.4 percent from the
previous three months in the third quarter after shrinking 0.5
percent between April and June. Central bank reserves were at a
seven-year low of $21.6 billion at the end of September, down
from $29.3 billion a year earlier, as policy makers intervened
to support the hryvnia and repay existing IMF loans.  ‘Very Conservative’  The Finance Ministry is working on next year’s draft
budget, which “will be very conservative” with a deficit of 2
percent of GDP, Pakhachuk said. The government wants to agree on
the 2014 gap with the IMF, which forecasts a shortfall of 5.75
this year, she said.  Ukraine plans to trim losses at state-run energy company
NAK Naftogaz Ukrainy by increasing natural gas output, cutting
the price of fuel imports from Russia and improving  energy
efficiency .  Russia said today that it may force Ukraine to prepay for
gas starting in December because it owes $882 million for
supplies dating back to August. Ukrainian Energy Minister Eduard Stavytskyi said the government would resolve the debt issue by
tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  