-- Hungary Delays FX Mortgage Plan on Legal Uncertainty
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2013-10-31T13:18:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/hungary-delays-fx-mortgage-plan-on-legal-uncertainty.html
Hungary’s government, which
threatened banks with a plan to phase out billions of dollars of
foreign-currency mortgages, will delay presenting the measures
because of potential legal obstacles.  “If courts in the coming weeks and months pass rulings
that would allow, say, a government decision to be contested,
then we won’t have done anything,” Economy Minister  Mihaly Varga  said today in Budapest. “We need to be cautious and the
coming period will be about seeking legal clarity.”  Hungarians have struggled with mortgages borrowed in
foreign currencies since the forint plunged during the economic
crisis. Prime Minister Viktor Orban, who faces elections in
2014, has promised to phase them out and lower monthly payments.
Varga said earlier this week that the government would unveil
its plan in early November after rejecting proposals from banks.  OTP Bank Nyrt., Hungary’s largest lender, fell 0.5 percent
to 4,477 forint by 12:32 p.m. in Budapest. It’s tumbled 11
percent since the government said July 16 that it’s considering
a new debt-relief plan. Banks lost $1.7 billion during a 2011
program and reacted by pulling out capital equal to 23 percent
of  Hungary ’s gross domestic product and cutting new lending.  In a test case, Hungary’s top court ruled in favor of OTP
in July in a lawsuit that disputed the validity of a foreign-currency mortgage contract. The court also retroactively changed
some of the agreement’s conditions. The verdict hasn’t stopped
borrowers from launching legal action, producing what Varga
called “contradictory” rulings.  Swiss Loans  Hungarians held 1.81 trillion forint ($8.4 billion) in
mostly Swiss franc-denominated mortgages at the end of June and
an additional 1.68 trillion forint in foreign-currency home-equity loans, which can be used for purchases other than homes,
central bank data show.  Borrowers’ monthly payments soared after the forint plunged
against the franc during the crisis, with a fifth of loans now
non-performing, according to central bank  data . They account for
13 percent of GDP, according European Bank for Reconstruction
and Development data.  OTP competes with mostly foreign-owned banks including
 Erste Group Bank AG (EBS) ,  UniCredit (UCG)  SpA,  KBC Groep (KBC)  NV,  Intesa
SanPaolo (ISP)  SpA and  Raiffeisen Bank (RBI)  International AG.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  