-- Murdoch Urges Australia to Increase Immigration for Trade Ties
-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 2013-10-31T10:06:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/murdoch-urges-australia-to-increase-immigration-for-trade-ties.html
Rupert Murdoch , the Australia-born
billionaire chairman of  News Corp. (NWSA) , said his homeland needs to
attract more Asian immigrants as its dependence on trade grows.  “The more people we have with ties to other parts of the
world, the greater our advantage when we seek trade
relationships with these nations,” he said today in a speech in
Sydney. “Immigration adds its own dynamism to any economy.”  Australia, whose biggest trading partner is  China , must
attract larger numbers of top overseas graduates, particularly
from Asia, Murdoch, 82, said in a speech at the  Lowy Institute ,
a Sydney-based provider of research on foreign policy. Ethnic
diversity gives Australia an “incredible” advantage, said
Murdoch, who obtained U.S. citizenship in 1985.  Sensitivity to immigration in Australia intensified in the
late 1970s, when refugees arriving by sea were granted entry
following the  Vietnam War . Prime Minister  Tony Abbott , elected
last month, has pledged to stop arrivals of asylum seekers by
boat as the government focuses on migrants with skills.  Australia has been built on overseas arrivals since it was
colonized by Britain in 1788. The proportion of the population
born  overseas  is now more than 27 percent, almost double the
figure in the U.S., United Nations data show.  Murdoch also called on Australia to embrace “disruption.”
For  News Corp ., publisher of the Wall Street Journal, the growth
of mobile communications was “a shot of adrenalin,” allowing
access to news and data worldwide, he said.  ‘More Nimble’  “The same opportunity for global growth is there for
Australia, if we can make ourselves more nimble,” he said.  The threat to Australia’s prosperity no longer comes from
lower paid Asian workforces producing cheaper  consumer goods ,
said Murdoch. Rather, it’s the potential for China and India to
beat Australia to new drug or technology discoveries, he said.  Australia would serve its own interests by strengthening
ties with China and neighboring Indonesia, said Murdoch.  “All around us, we face something this region has never
had before: a wealthy, educated and globally competitive middle
class of more than two billion people,” said Murdoch. “That is
not something we need to fear. That is something we need to
lead.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  