-- Venezuela Introduces Currency Exchange Rate for Tourists
-- B y   C o r i n a   P o n s   a n d   N a t h a n   C r o o k s
-- 2013-10-31T23:46:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/venezuela-central-bank-to-introduce-non-resident-exchange-rate.html
Venezuela  is introducing an exchange
rate for tourists, fueling speculation the government will
devalue its currency for the second time in a year.  Foreign visitors to the South American country will be able
to sell as much as $10,000 a year at an exchange rate to be
published on the central bank’s website, according to a decree
in the official gazette distributed today.  Venezuela, which devalued the bolivar by 32 percent in
February to 6.3 per dollar, has been unable to arrest the
decline of the bolivar on the black market, where companies and
individuals unable to access the official rate pay as much as 57
bolivars per dollar. President Nicolas Maduro this month re-started dollar auctions at an undisclosed rate in an effort to
stem product shortages in time for Christmas as annual inflation
reached almost 50 percent in September.  “Every time they announce a new exchange rate for a
sector, it’s a devaluation for that segment,” Barclays Plc
analyst Alejandro Grisanti said today in a telephone interview.
“In theory, tourists had been using the official rate until
now.”  An official at Venezuela’s central bank, who asked not to
be identified because she isn’t allowed to speak publicly, said
she wasn’t able to comment when asked when the bank would
publish the tourist rate.  Bolivar Decline  The bolivar has lost almost 70 percent of its value on the
black market so far this year, according to rate tracking
website dolartoday.com. Maduro has blamed inflation, product
shortages and the record gap between the official and black
market rates on “economic sabotage” by political opponents.  Non-residents, who will be able to purchase bolivars at the
tourist rate at banks in airports and ports, will be able to
sell as much as 25 percent of the bolivars they purchased back
to central bank upon departing the country, according to the
gazette. Foreign credit cards swiped in the country will use the
tourist exchange rate.  “No tourist who is moderately informed is going to
exchange at an official rate below the black market rate,”
 Asdrubal Oliveros , director of Caracas-based consultancy
Ecoanalitica, said today in a telephone interview.  The yield on the Venezuelan government’s benchmark 9.25
percent dollar bonds due in 2027 rose three basis points, or
0.03 percentage point, to 11.91 percent today in  New York ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The price fell 0.18
cent to 82.16 cents.  Multiple Rates  Former President  Hugo Chavez , who died from an undisclosed
type of cancer in March, devalued the bolivar in December 2010
by unifying two fixed foreign exchange rates that had been used
in a multi-tier system introduced in January that year.  “The measure shows that the government is going back to a
multiple exchange rate system,” Oliveros said about the rate
for tourists.  Venezuela has no plans to end currency controls, Maduro
said on Oct. 24. The government is working on reforms to its
official currency system known as Cadivi and the introduction of
a new, alternative system, Oil Minister and Economy Vice
President  Rafael Ramirez  said Oct. 23.  “The government will at least sell dollars to tourists at
the rate used on the Sicad, otherwise it wouldn’t make sense to
publish this resolution,” Jose Guerra, an economist at
Universidad Central de Venezuela, said today in a telephone
interview, referring to the complementary dollar-auction system
introduced this year that doesn’t publish exchange rates.  Probably Devalue  Venezuela will probably devalue the bolivar after municipal
elections on Dec. 8 with large depreciation of the official
Cadivi rate and new rate tiers, Bank of America economist
 Francisco Rodriguez  said in a note to clients on Oct. 17.  Minister Ramirez said on Oct. 18 that the country had no
plans to devalue the bolivar.  “Those who are waiting for us to announce another
devaluation are wasting their time,” he said.  Venezuela’s international reserves have dropped to $22.1
billion, the lowest level in almost nine years, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Maduro requested special powers from the National Assembly
Oct. 8 to fight inflation, shortages and corruption. In a speech
to the assembly, the former bus driver asked lawmakers for the
right to govern by decree for 12 months, while accusing
businesses of “waging economic war” by hoarding goods and
speculating on foreign exchange controls.  “Although this is a rate for tourists, Venezuelans will
consider this an official rate and use it as a reference,”
Henkel Garcia, director of Caracas-based consultancy
Econometrica, said in telephone interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Corina Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net ;
Nathan Crooks in Caracas at 
 ncrooks@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  