-- Virginia May Charge Tolls for $2 Billion Tunnel Project
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2013-10-31T17:17:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/virginia-wins-high-court-leave-to-charge-tunnel-tolls.html
Virginia can charge tolls on
Elizabeth River tunnels to finance a $2 billion project, the
state  Supreme Court  ruled in overturning a lower-court decision.  The trial court erred in holding that the tolls are taxes
because they are designed to raise revenue, the Supreme Court
said. The tolls are paid “in exchange for a particularized
benefit,” aren’t compelled by the government and are collected
solely to fund the project, it said.  “We hold that the project tolls are user fees and not
taxes,” the court said in its ruling. Thus lawmakers did not
delegate the power of taxation to agencies such as the state’s
transportation department in violation of the Virginia
Constitution, it said.  Funding for the project, designed to reduce traffic
congestion and add a new tunnel connecting Norfolk and
Portsmouth, relied in part on toll revenue from two existing
tunnels.  Toll-collecting was slated to start in February 2014. Then
some residents of Portsmouth and longtime users of the downtown
tunnel sued in July 2012 challenging the plan.  The International Bridge, Tunnel and Turnpike Association
today applauded the court’s decision for preserving a “reliable
funding method.” The tolls can proceed as planned this winter,
the group said in a statement.  Group’s Statement  “With an ever-increasing burden on states and
municipalities to pay for highway and infrastructure development
and maintenance, tolling is an incredibly valuable tool that
must remain in the toolbox for government officials,” Executive
Director Patrick D. Jones said in the statement.  Financing for the project was developed through a public-private partnership that included $675 million of private
activity bonds, a $463 million federal loan under the
Transportation Infrastructure Finance Innovation Act and
$421 million from the Virginia Transportation Department,
according to the project’s website.  The case is Elizabeth River Crossings v. Meeks, 130954,
Supreme Court of Virginia (Richmond).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in federal court in Philadelphia
at   spearson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 