-- Wells Fargo Said to Settle FHFA Claims for Less Than $1 Billion
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-10-31T20:33:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/wells-fargo-said-to-settle-fhfa-claims-for-less-than-1-billion.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  agreed to pay less
than $1 billion to settle Federal Housing Finance Agency claims
it sold faulty mortgage bonds to  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac ,
according to a person briefed on the deal.  The bank’s accord with the FHFA, which regulates the
government-backed mortgage-finance firms, was subject to a
confidentiality agreement, the person said, asking not to be
named because of those terms. San Francisco-based Wells Fargo
said in a May filing that it had settled Fannie Mae’s claims
over mortgage bonds, and that the payment, which it didn’t
specify, was covered by reserves.  Mary Eshet , a bank spokeswoman, and Stefanie Johnson at the
FHFA declined to comment.  Investors and analysts have sought to estimate what
government claims banks have yet to face over faulty mortgage
bonds after JPMorgan Chase & Co., the biggest U.S. lender,
entered talks with the Justice Department over a proposed $13
billion settlement of state and federal probes. The FHFA is
squeezing banks to repay losses that taxpayers were forced to
cover when the U.S. took control of the two failing mortgage-finance companies in the wake of 2008’s credit crisis.  Part of JPMorgan’s deal was finished with the FHFA last
week, as the New York-based firm agreed to pay $5.1 billion to
resolve claims it mis-sold mortgage bonds to  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and
Freddie Mac, as well as defective homes loans that they packaged
into their own securities.  Fitch Estimates  Bank of America Corp. may have to pay $5 billion to $8
billion to settle the FHFA’s suit against it after JPMorgan’s
deal set “a relatively high bar,” Fitch Ratings said this
week. An FHFA lawsuit against Bank of America had cited about
$57 billion of mortgage-backed securities, compared with about
$33 billion in its case against JPMorgan, Fitch said.  The Financial Times reported earlier today on Wells Fargo’s
confidential settlement. Citigroup Inc. and  General Electric Co. (GE) 
also previously paid undisclosed amounts to resolve the
regulator’s complaints.  UBS AG (UBSN) , Switzerland’s largest bank, agreed in July to pay
$885 million to settle claims it misrepresented the quality of
the loans backing $4.5 billion in residential mortgage bonds it
sponsored and $1.8 billion of third-party mortgage bonds sold to
Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac. (FMCC)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in New York at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Eichenbaum at 
 peichenbaum@bloomberg.net  