-- Wi-Lan, AstraZeneca, FootAsylum: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-10-31T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/wi-lan-astrazeneca-footasylum-intellectual-property.html
Wi-Lan Inc. (WIN) , the patent holder that
suffered a setback last week when Apple Inc. won an infringement
trial, said it will explore “strategic alternatives” including
a possible sale of the company.  Wi-Lan will consider changes to dividend policy or other
forms of return of capital, as well as “the acquisition or
disposition of assets, joint ventures, the sale of the company,
alternative operating models or continuing with the current
business plan,” it said yesterday in a statement.  The Ottawa-based company has lost 21 percent since Apple
won a patent-infringement trial on Oct. 23 and fended off a
demand for $248 million in royalties for wireless technology
used in mobile devices. Wi-Lan holds about 3,000 patents and
relies on royalty payments for all of its sales.  “The company strongly believes in its current business
strategy but does not believe that its current share price
accurately reflects its strong balance sheet, the value of its
signed license agreements, its business prospects or the
residual value of its broad  intellectual property  portfolio,”
it said.  The board has a wide range of alternatives including
distributing capital to shareholders, Justin Kew, a Toronto-based analyst with Cantor Fitzgerald LP, said in a note to
clients.  The company could pay out at least $60 million, or about 50
cents a share, or more, Kew said. He maintains a buy
recommendation and a $4.80 target price. The stock has five
buys, two holds and two sell ratings, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Canaccord Genuity is serving as financial adviser to Wi-Lan, and Norton Rose Fulbright Canada LLP is serving as legal
adviser, the company said. Wi-Lan hasn’t set a timetable for
completing the review initiated by the board, it said.  The infringement case is Wi-Lan Inc. v.  HTC Corp. (2498) , 2:11-cv-00068, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of  Texas 
(Marshall).  Nokia Wins U.K. Lawsuit Against HTC Over Phone Network Patent  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  won a London lawsuit against Taiwanese phonemaker
HTC Corp. over  patent rights  concerning the transmission of data
over mobile networks.  Judge Richard Arnold said that HTC products had infringed
Nokia’s patent EP 0 998 024. Nokia said in a statement it would
seek compensation and an injunction against the sale of HTC
products in the U.K.  Nokia, the Finnish company selling its handset business to
Microsoft Corp., has filed more than 50 lawsuits in  Europe ,
 Japan  and the U.S. in its patent fight with HTC.  “HTC is disappointed by the decision that the U.K. court
has reached in this case and we will be seeking to appeal the
finding immediately,” the company said in an e-mailed
statement.  The case is Nokia Corp. v. HTC Corp.,  High Court  of
Justice,  Chancery Division , HC12C02909; and HTC Corp. v Nokia
Corp., High Court of Justice, Chancery Division, HC12A02048.  AstraZeneca Wins Appeal Over Patent for Pulmicort Respules  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN)  won an appeals court ruling that will give
it a new chance to block generic versions of the inhaled asthma
medicine Pulmicort Respules.  A trial judge used an erroneous interpretation to determine
that patent 7,524,834 covering the use of the drug wasn’t
infringed, the  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit in
 Washington  said. The appeals court did uphold the judge’s ruling
patent 6,598,603, covering the drug itself, is invalid.  The case is AstraZeneca Plc v. Breath Ltd., 13-1352, U.S.
Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. The lower-court case
is AstraZeneca Plc v. Watson Laboratories Inc., 1:11-cv-03626,
U.S. District Court, District of  New Jersey  (Camden).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  FootAsylum Tells U.K. Clothing Store It must Change Its Name  FootAsylum Ltd., a shoe retailer, told a clothing shop in
the U.K.’s Derby that it must change its name or face trademark
actions, the Derby Telegraph  reported .  The Heywood, U.K.-based shoe chain objects to the name of
Asylum, an independent clothing shop in Derby’s  Westfield (WDC) 
shopping center, according to the newspaper.  Rob Smedley, who manages Asylum, said the 20-month-old
store will have to pay about 15,000 British pounds ($24,000) if
it doesn’t prevail against FootAsylum in a trademark challenge,
according to the Telegraph.  IP counsel  Aaron Wood , of Derby’s  Swindell & Pearson Ltd. ,
told the Telegraph that Asylum has its own valuable IP rights,
building up a “big following” long before FootAsylum tried to
argue that its trademark was infringed.  Lewmar Fails to Win Dismissal of Trademark Infringement Suit  Lewmar Ltd., the U.K.-based marine equipment supplier,
failed to persuade a federal court to dismiss a trademark case
brought by a  Connecticut  inventor.  The suit, filed in federal court in  New Haven , Connecticut,
in December 2009, is related to the design of the  One Touch 
handle for a winch used to control lines on large sailboats.
Donald J. Steiner, the Norwalk, Connecticut-based inventor, and
his Dax Labs LLC created the handle in the early 21st century
and patented it in 2006.  After it was sued for trademark infringement, Lewmar asked
the court to declare it didn’t infringe patent 7,114,705, which
covers the winch handle, and that it didn’t violate a covenant
of good faith and fair dealing between the company and the
inventor for the manufacture of the handle.  In a ruling handed down Oct. 22, U.S. District judge
Dominic J. Squatrito said he wouldn’t address the non-infringement request because the inventor had not filed patent
infringement charges. And he said that the inventor and his
company did present a case for bad-faith dealings.  The inventor alleged a number of material breaches of the
agreement between himself and Lewmar, and Judge Squatrito said
there was evidence in support of the allegations in addition to
internal Lewmar e-mails that could support a finding of bad
faith.  According to court papers, in one e-mail Lewmar said that
it had the opportunity to “kill off” the Dax handle, and
describing how it “got around the Steiner patent for the Lite
Touch.”  The case is Steiner v. Lewmar Inc., 3:09-cv-01976, U.S.
District Court, District of Connecticut (New Haven).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Apple Ordered to Pay $16.5 Million French Copyright Tax on IPads  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  was ordered by the Paris Civil Court to pay 12
million Euros ($16.5 million) to IP rights holders as a tax on
its iPad sales, AppleInsider  reported .  The payment is for  France ’s “ copie privee ” tax levied
from March 2012 to December 2012 against devices that can
present copyrighted material, and it is intended to compensate
content owners for the unauthorized use of their material,
according to AppleInsider.  Cupertino, California-based Apple has said that the law
mandating this payment may not accurately relate to the ratio of
legal to illegal copies used on the devices, and because user
studies weren’t conducted before the law requiring the payment
was passed, AppleInsider reported.  France’s Council of State is reviewing the tablet rate
sales for the copie privee tax, according to AppleInsider.  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  