-- Twitter Said to Attract More Than Enough Interest for IPO
-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o   a n d   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2013-11-01T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/twitter-said-to-attract-more-than-enough-orders-for-ipo.html
Twitter Inc. (TWTR)  has attracted more than
enough demand to sell all of the shares in its initial public
offering, people with knowledge of the matter said.  Banks managing Twitter’s market debut were getting
sufficient interest from investors for the IPO to be
oversubscribed even before they started taking orders, said one
of the people, who asked not to be identified because the
information is private. The microblogging site is offering 70
million shares for $17 to $20 each, according to regulatory
 filings .  Twitter, which is scheduled to price the shares Nov. 6 and
start trading the next day, could increase the amount it is
offering or the price before going public, depending on demand.
Chief Executive Officer Dick Costolo has been visiting major
U.S. cities to meet investors to drum up interest for the stock.  “They originally priced the shares low enough to pique
interest like this,” said Santosh Rao, an analyst at Greencrest
Capital Management LLC in New York. “I think they’ll likely
raise the price at least once. We’ve seen this before with
Facebook -- everyone wants a piece of these hot technology
companies.”  Gabriel Stricker , a spokesman for Twitter, declined to
comment.  San Francisco-based Twitter is seeking as much as $1.4
billion in its offering, compared with the $16 billion  Facebook
Inc. (FB)  raised in its record sale for an Internet company in May
2012, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Final Pricing  Twitter is attracting robust interest even though Costolo
and his managers haven’t discussed plans for the company to
break even, according to people with knowledge of discussions
that took place at two road show meetings this week. At the top
of the current price range, Twitter would be valued at $10.9
billion.  In the U.S., companies typically spend one to two weeks
before going public meeting with investors face to face.
Investment bankers take orders for shares during the period,
which culminates in a final pricing before the shares start
trading publicly.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. is leading the offering, working
with Morgan Stanley and JPMorgan Chase & Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  