-- Twitter Stays Mum on Profit on Roadshow Ahead of IPO
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r   a n d   L e s l i e   P i c k e r
-- 2013-10-31T12:45:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/twitter-stays-mum-on-profit-on-roadshow-ahead-of-ipo.html
Twitter Inc. (TWTR)  sought to drum up
investor interest this week for its initial public offering by
talking about mobile growth and advertising capacity. Notably
absent from the list: profits.  As the money-losing company held roadshow meetings in New
York and Philadelphia, Twitter executives discussed no plan for
breaking even, according to people with knowledge of the
discussions that took place at New York’s Mandarin Oriental
yesterday and at the Philadelphia Ritz-Carlton on Oct. 28. That
left some attendees questioning the value of Twitter as a long-term investment, said Max Wolff, chief economist and strategist
at ZT Wealth, who had spoken to investors who attended the
Philadelphia meeting.  Investors are looking for sustainable business models after
Internet companies such as  Groupon Inc. (GRPN)  saw their shares crater
when they went public without profits. Twitter contrasts with
its social-networking peers,  Facebook Inc. (FB)  and  LinkedIn Corp. (LNKD) ,
which were making money at the time of their IPOs. While
Facebook fell after its IPO, it has since climbed back, fueled
by profits and sales growth, with the world’s largest social-networking provider yesterday posting third-quarter results that
topped analysts’ estimates.  Road Map  “People were surprised that we don’t have more of a road
map for when Twitter will break even,” said Wolff. “You’ve
actually seen their losses increase, so that’s created a bit of
concern.”  Twitter is unlikely to make a profit until 2015, according
to the  average  of analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
LinkedIn was profitable for several quarters before its May 2011
IPO, while Facebook had been making money for years. Even  Zynga
Inc. (ZNGA) , which has lost more than half its value since its December
2011 IPO, was profitable when it went public. Groupon started
making money two quarters after being a public company, before
slipping back into losses.  Twitter is limited by what it can say on the roadshow if it
didn’t include the information in its offering prospectus. The
company didn’t disclose a profit plan in that document.  “It’s either they don’t want to reveal how they’re going
to monetize or they don’t really know,” said Jeff Sica,
president and chief investment officer of Sica Wealth Management
LLC, who also spoke to attendees of the Twitter roadshow in
Philadelphia. “I didn’t get the sense that people are going to
be enthusiastic.”  Facebook Impact  Jim Prosser, a spokesman for Twitter, declined to comment.  Facebook yesterday said it will limit news feed
advertisements that have driven revenue gains, a move that will
have an impact on Twitter, said  Gene Munster , a senior research
analyst at Piper Jaffray Cos., in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Scarlet Fu.  “This is something that Twitter investors will start to
extrapolate a year or year-and-a-half down the road,” Munster
said. “The good news for Twitter is that Facebook’s stock is in
a much different place today than it was nine months ago.”  Facebook shares are now trading almost 30 percent higher
than their IPO price. They have gained 84 percent this year,
compared with a 24 percent gain in the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index.  Business Model  Twitter, based in  San Francisco , is seeking as much as $1.4
billion in its offering, compared with the $16 billion Facebook
raised in its record sale for an  Internet company  in May 2012,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. At the top of the
proposed price range, Twitter would be valued at $10.9 billion.
It will give a final price for its shares next week and will be
listed on the New York Stock Exchange.  Chief Executive Officer  Dick Costolo  was in New York
yesterday for one of several meetings in major cities to explain
why investors should buy into the company’s nascent business
model. Twitter, which generates revenue through advertising
posts on its short-messaging service, warns in its offering
prospectus that losses may continue as it spends to grow its
business.  It’s a model that makes the company weak from a financial
health perspective, said James Gellert, CEO of Rapid Ratings
Inc., a New York-based firm that uses quantitative models to
grade securities.  Net Loss  For the third quarter, Twitter said its net loss expanded
to $64.6 million from $21.6 million a year earlier. While the
company has more than doubled revenue annually, to $534.4
million in the 12 months through Sept. 30, user growth is
slowing and becoming more costly, filings show.  The service had 231.7 million monthly users in the three
months through September, up 39 percent from a year earlier.
That compares with 65 percent growth in the previous year.  Twitter may be taking advantage of an opportunity to spend
while the market will allow it, which may reap bigger benefits
if research and development costs pay off, said Jeremy Levine, a
venture capitalist at Bessemer Venture Partners. He’s on the
board of Pinterest Inc., the Internet-scrapbooking site which
was valued at $3.8 billion in a financing last week and doesn’t
yet have a revenue model.  “When you’re growing really fast you can very quickly
become quite profitable if you stop adding to your expenses,”
Levine said. “The minute the market thinks they won’t grow very
fast, they will need to become profitable right away.”  Twitter’s prospectus offers several alternative metrics
that don’t conform to generally accepted accounting principles.
Such measures, known as pro forma or dubbed by some as earnings
without the bad stuff, came under attack in the waning days of
the late 1990s technology bubble, though the metrics remained
common.  Pro Forma  Many technology companies use a metric known as Ebitda, or
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization.
Twitter offers prospective investors an “adjusted Ebitda,”
which also excludes stock-based compensation expense and
investments in servers, leases and networking equipment to
support the company’s expansion, its filing shows. Based on that
metric, Twitter reported positive 2012 results of about $21.2
million, instead of the $79.4 million loss it reported according
to generally accepted accounting principles.  Twitter doesn’t tell investors how many advertisers it has,
how often they are coming back for more business or how much
they are spending on average.  Getting Visual  While it hasn’t outlined a path to profits, Twitter is
planning to enhance its advertising products to beef up revenue.
This week, the company enabled users to see photos in their main
stream of content -- something that advertisers will be looking
to take advantage of.  Twitter has also emphasized its plans to shrink losses in
materials prepared ahead of the roadshow. In a video for the
marketing tour, Chief Financial Officer Mike Gupta says the
company, which has lost almost $500 million since it was founded
in 2007, has room to “significantly expand” margins.  Some investors said the lack of profits doesn’t bother them
as much as how the company will do with revenue.  “Everyone’s interested in the growth story, in terms of
how they will find new advertisers and users,” said Akram
Yosri, managing partner at 3i Capital Group, who dined on
chicken at the Mandarin Oriental meeting yesterday. He said his
firm will invest in Twitter if it can get into the deal.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah Frier in  New York  at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net ;
Leslie Picker in New York at 
 lpicker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  