-- Two Million Workers Strike in Indonesia Wage Protest, Group Says
-- B y   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a
-- 2013-10-31T17:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/two-million-workers-strike-in-indonesia-wage-protest-group-says.html
About two million workers across
 Indonesia  went on strike to demand the government increase wages
by 50 percent next year, according to a group representing labor
unions.  The strike across 22 provinces that started yesterday will
continue today and may be extended if the government doesn’t
respond to workers’ demands, Nelly Marlianti, a spokeswoman for
the Confederation of Indonesian Workers Union, said by phone in
Jakarta. Police put the number of workers on strike at much less
than the two million given by organizers, the  Associated Press 
reported. Boy Rafli Amar, the national police spokesman, didn’t
answer four calls to his mobile phone.  The demands follow similar minimum wage rises for 2013 and
reflect increased industrial action in the past two years as
unionized workers seek a greater share of  Southeast Asia ’s
largest economy. Companies face higher labor costs at a time
when accelerated inflation is sapping consumers’ purchasing
power and economic growth is slowing, reducing the nation’s
investment appeal.  “Our labor costs are quite competitive compared with other
countries,” Aldian Taloputra, an economist at Jakarta-based PT
Mandiri Sekuritas, said by phone yesterday. “But with
infrastructure relatively inadequate compared with other
countries, other costs are also high.”  Indonesia’s  economy  expanded 5.81 percent in the second
quarter, less than 6 percent for the first time since 2010.  Bank
Indonesia  forecasts inflation of 9 percent to 9.8 percent at the
end of the year and has raised its benchmark  interest rate  by
1.5 percentage points since early June to 7.25 percent to tackle
price pressures and a weakening rupiah.  Yesterday’s labor rallies, concentrated at industrial
estates, were peaceful with minor clashes reported in Bekasi, a
city near Jakarta, between workers and locals and a youth
organization, Marlianti said.  Labor groups from the steel, garment, footwear and other
industries planned the strike to seek a 2014  minimum wage 
increase to 3.7 million rupiah ($328) a month, Aos Koswara, the
chairman of the Karya Utama workers federation, said on Oct. 24.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  