-- WTI Crude Falls to Trade Near Four-Month Low on U.S. Supply Gain
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-10-31T13:01:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/wti-oil-trades-near-four-month-low-as-u-s-crude-supplies-gain.html
West Texas Intermediate dropped for
a third day, trading near a four-month low, as U.S. crude
stockpiles gained for a sixth week and speculation mounted that
the Federal Reserve may reduce financial stimulus.  Futures lost as much as 0.7 percent, heading for a second
monthly decline, as the dollar strengthened on signs the Fed may
curtail bond purchases and of an interest-rate cut by the
European Central Bank.  Crude inventories  rose by 4.1 million
barrels to 383.9 million last week, the highest level since
June, the Energy Department said yesterday. Libya removed a
restriction on exports from its Hariga oil-export terminal, the
OPEC member’s state-run National Oil Corp. said.  Crude inventories showed an “unexpectedly large U.S.
build,” said  Harry Tchilinguirian , head of commodity-markets
strategy at BNP Paribas SA in London. “Refinery utilization
remains significantly below summer peaks, reflecting the impact
of ongoing refinery maintenance. Indigenous production has been
increasing for some time by more than refinery demand.”  WTI for December delivery dropped as much as 71 cents to
$96.06 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York  Mercantile
Exchange, and was at $96.21 at 12:56 p.m. London time. The
contract fell 1.5 percent to $96.77 yesterday, the lowest close
since June 28. The volume of all futures traded was about 7
percent below the 100-day average. Prices have slid 6 percent in
October after losing 4.9 percent in September.  Brent for December settlement was down 30 cents at $109.56
a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
European benchmark crude was at a premium of $13.17 to WTI. The
spread was $13.09 yesterday, the widest since April 2.  ECB Speculation  The euro fell the most in nine weeks versus the dollar
after the inflation rate in the European single-currency region
dropped unexpectedly, fuelling speculation the ECB will cut
rates to spur the recovery. It was at $1.3642 against the U.S.
currency at 12:41 p.m.  The Fed’s Open Market Committee said after its two-day
meeting ended yesterday that it sees improvement in economic
activity while committing to maintain monthly bond purchases.  U.S.  refineries  operated at 87.3 percent of capacity, up
1.4 percentage points from the prior week. Utilization rates
usually peak during the summer months when U.S. gasoline demand
rises and decline in September and October, EIA data showed.  Cushing Inventories  Crude inventories at Cushing,  Oklahoma , the largest U.S.
oil-storage hub and the delivery point for WTI futures
contracts, rose by 2.2 million barrels to 35.5 million, the EIA
said yesterday. That’s the biggest volume gain since December
and the highest level since August.  Libya’s Sharara field may restart within 10 days, Salah A.
Ben Ali, manager of international cooperation at the Oil and Gas
Ministry, said today at a conference in  Singapore . The field was
pumping about 330,000 barrels a day before it was shut by
minority Tuareg protesters this week. The nation’s production
slumped as a result, with output now at 350,000 to 400,000
barrels a day, Ibrahim Al Awami, the oil ministry’s head of
measurement and inspection, said today by telephone from the
central port of Ras Lanuf.  Libya, a member of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries, has a capacity to pump 1.6 million barrels a day,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net 
Grant Smith in  London  at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  