-- Wynn Casino’s Naked Bonds Fly on Macau Growth Bet
-- B y   N i c k   G e n t l e   a n d   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 2013-10-31T09:11:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/wynn-casino-s-naked-bonds-fly-on-macau-growth-bet.html
Wynn Macau Ltd. (1128) ’s sale of $600
million of notes this month without conditions on further
borrowing underscores soaring demand for Asian gaming debt even
as economic growth slows in  China .  The yield on the casino operator’s eight-year 5.25 percent
U.S. currency securities dropped 29 basis points through
yesterday from their issue on Oct. 16, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Bonds sold by Melco Crown Entertainment Ltd.
returned 7.95 percent this year versus 0.05 percent for the Bank
of America Merrill Lynch Asian Dollar Corporate Index.  Wynn’s sale of high-yield notes lacking protections found
in similar products came as analysts from Credit Suisse Group AG
and Standard & Poor’s said a slowdown in China is the main risk
to Macau’s gaming market. Gambling revenue in the former
Portuguese colony climbed to 89.4 billion patacas ($11.2
billion) in the quarter through Sept. 30, 10 times what passed
through the  Las Vegas Strip  in the period.  “It is remarkable and off-market for a high-yield rated
issuer to offer bonds that have no covenant protection,” said
Alexander Diaz-Matos, an analyst at Covenant Review LLC, an
independent credit research firm in  New York . “Even A-rated
investment-grade credits include liens covenants in their bond
offerings.’”  The  Wynn Macau  notes issued this month didn’t contain
covenants restricting further borrowing, dividends, asset sales
or securing of new lending via liens, according to Covenant
Review. Diaz-Matos described the Wynn Macau bond conditions as
setting a “terrible market precedent” in a note dated Oct. 10.  Indirect Protection  Investors in the bonds can rely indirectly on protection
from covenants attached to a $2.3 billion secured credit
facility at Wynn Resorts Macau SA, according to Michael Paladino, a senior director at  Fitch Ratings . Those conditions
limit leverage and require minimum interest coverage, he said.
Fitch rates the credit facility an investment grade BBB-, while
Wynn Macau and its recent bonds are both rated BB.  “That does not protect investors from additional debt
incurrence at Wynn Macau Ltd., which can dilute the credit at
that level and certainly presents a risk that we highlighted,”
said Paladino, who heads Fitch’s gaming, lodging and leisure
sector coverage in New York. “The Macau gaming market has
materially outperformed this year, with the VIP segment being
more resilient than most market participants anticipated
entering the year, so that helped demand for this deal.”  Record Revenue  Gaming revenue in Macau has soared as the number of
mainland Chinese visiting Macau climbed to a record 1.88 million
in August, according to Bloomberg Industries data. Macau’s
gambling revenue was $38 billion in 2012.  Wynn Macau reported third-quarter adjusted property
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization,
or Ebitda, that rose to $329.1 million from $292.2 million a
year earlier, according to an Oct. 24 statement by Las Vegas-based parent company  Wynn Resorts Ltd. (WYNN)  That surpassed the $300.6
million average estimate of 10 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.
The shares climbed 0.2 percent to HK$29.75 in Hong Kong today.  Net revenue climbed 9.6 percent to $997.6 million, a
record, surpassing the $996 million generated in the fourth
quarter of 2011, according to Bloomberg Industries. The company
had  $1.23 billion  in cash and near cash items at the end of
June, up from $834 million at the same time last year, according
to Bloomberg data.  Sands China Ltd.,  Galaxy Entertainment  Group Ltd. and Melco
Crown have been expanding on Cotai, a piece of reclaimed land
that is Macau’s equivalent to the Las Vegas Strip.  Wynn Palace  The yield on Galaxy Entertainment’s  yuan  bonds due December
2013 fell three basis points this year to 4.436 percent
yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The rate
slumped from a record 9.96 percent in October 2011.  Wynn Macau plans to open the $4 billion Wynn Palace on the
Cotai strip by Chinese New Year 2016. With the sale of the bonds
this month, that development is now fully funded, Matt Maddox,
chief financial officer of Wynn Resorts Ltd. said on an Oct. 24
conference call with analysts, according to a transcript.  Maddox declined to comment on the Wynn Macau bond offering
when the company was contacted separately by Bloomberg on Oct.
29.  “The likelihood of Wynn Macau being unable to pay back
bondholders is minuscule,” Grant Govertsen, Macau-based
managing partner at Union Gaming Group said by phone Oct. 29.
“Wynn is sitting on a lot of cash. It may not be riskless but
it’s pretty close because Macau casino growth has been
exceptional.”  ‘Such Fun’  Steve Wynn , chairman, chief executive officer and co-founder of parent Wynn Resorts, described the growth of Macau’s
casino market as “remarkable” and unprecedented in modern
history during the Oct. 24 call with analysts, the transcript
shows. He also remarked on the interest rate environment,
according to the transcript.  “It’s a wonderful time to borrow money,” Wynn said.
“It’s a shame that we’re all done doing it. It’s been such fun,
and it’s been so terrific for the company’s balance sheet and
for our future. We’re very proud of that.”  The 5.25 percent coupon on the Wynn Macau bonds compares
with 7.875 percent paid by the Las Vegas subsidiary of Wynn
Resorts on similar-maturity notes in 2009. Non-investment grade
Asian borrowers pay  7.6 percent , according to JPMorgan Chase &
Co. indexes.  China’s central bank has signaled it may be shifting toward
a tighter monetary policy as economic growth rebounds. The yield
on the Chinese government’s 3.48 percent bonds due July 2014
jumped 30 basis points to 4.10 percent yesterday, according to
data provided by the Interbank Funding Center. That’s the
highest for a benchmark one-year sovereign note since at least
2007.  Injections Resumed  The increase came even after the People’s Bank of China
resumed injecting funds to the financial system using reverse-repurchase agreements for the first time in two weeks on Oct.
29. The yuan fell for a fourth day, the longest losing streak
since July. The  renminbi  slipped 0.06 percent to close at 6.0938
per dollar in  Shanghai , extending a four-day drop to 0.19
percent, China Foreign Exchange Trade System prices show.  Surging money market rates stoked concern that China’s
leaders would take further action to suppress shadow banking
activity in the mainland, leading to slower growth.  Standard & Poor’s  analysts identified the risk of “less
robust economic growth” in China as one of the factors that
might lead to a meaningfully weaker performance in Macau gaming.
S&P rated Wynn Macau BB+ and the notes issued this month one
notch lower at BB.  Asia Issuance  “We believe the risks to gaming stock prices will not come
from the near-term solid Macau macros, but from any unexpected
changes in China macros,” Credit Suisse Hong Kong-based
analysts Kenny Lau and Isis Wong wrote in a note dated Oct. 29.  Including Wynn Macau’s $600 million securities, casino
companies in  Asia  have issued $1.98 billion in bonds this year.
That compares with $23.8 billion sold by real estate entities in
the region and $9.2 billion priced by gaming firms in the U.S.,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Casino bonds have been very popular with investors in the
U.S. while Asian investors don’t have many opportunities to tap
that market,”  Gordon Tsui, deputy chief investment officer at
Hang Seng Investment said by phone Oct. 29. “The lack of
regular casino bond offerings tends to push the prices higher.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nick Gentle in  Hong Kong  at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net ;
Vinicy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  