-- Yankees’ Rodriguez Calls MLB Appeals Process ‘House of Horrors’
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-11-01T04:01:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/yankees-rodriguez-calls-mlb-appeals-process-house-of-horrors-.html
Alex Rodriguez  waited less than 24
hours after the final out of the Major League Baseball season to
launch a new round of criticism of Commissioner  Bud Selig ,
saying he’s gone through a “house of horrors” as he appeals
his 211-game drug suspension, according to the  Associated Press .  The New York Yankees third baseman yesterday again
questioned the integrity of baseball’s investigators, whose
evidence contributed to the longest drug ban in MLB history.
Last month, Rodriguez sued MLB and Selig for attempting to
destroy his reputation and career in what he called a “witch
hunt.”  “It is sad that Commissioner Selig once again is turning a
blind eye, knowing that crimes are being committed under his
regime,” Rodriguez, 38, said in yesterday’s statement,
according to the AP. “To be sure, this fight is necessary to
protect me, but it also serves the interests of the next 18-year-old coming into the league, to be sure he doesn’t step into
the house of horrors that I am being forced to walk through.”  Ron Berkowitz, a spokesman for Rodriguez, did not
immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  MLB Chief Operating Officer  Rob Manfred  said that
Rodriguez’s comments were “another example of this player
trying to avoid taking responsibility for his poor choices.”  “Given the disappointing acts that Mr. Rodriguez has
repeatedly made throughout his career, his expressed concern for
young people rings very hollow,” Manfred said in a statement.
“Mr. Rodriguez’s use of PEDs was longer and more pervasive than
any other player, and when this process is complete, the facts
will prove that it is Mr. Rodriguez and his representatives who
have engaged in ongoing, gross misconduct.”  Rodriguez in August was suspended for violating the joint
drug agreement between baseball and its players union. Selig
said when he announced the discipline that Rodriguez used
testosterone and human growth hormone for “multiple years,”
and tried to “obstruct and frustrate” baseball’s
investigation.  As Rodriguez appealed the suspension, he was allowed to
play out the sixth season of his 10-year, $275 million contract,
the largest in baseball. The 14-time All-Star has acknowledged
taking performance-enhancing drugs as a member of the  Texas
Rangers  from 2001 to 2003, and denied any use after that.  Arbitrator Fredric Horowitz has heard eight days of
hearings, according to the AP. The appeal will resume Nov. 18.  -- Editor: Rob Gloster  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  