-- Yellen Begins Meeting Senators on Nomination to Head Fed
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r   a n d   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2013-10-31T19:37:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/yellen-begins-meeting-senators-on-nomination-to-head-fed.html
Federal Reserve Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  began meeting with senators two weeks before a hearing on
her nomination to lead the central bank, starting with a top
Republican and a top Democrat on the banking panel.  “We had a nice meeting, a courteous meeting,” Republican
Senator  Richard Shelby  said after talking with Yellen today,
specifically saying he asked “a lot of questions about the role
of the Fed.”  Shelby, the panel’s No. 2 Republican, said he didn’t commit
to supporting her nomination.  Senate Banking Committee Chairman  Tim Johnson  in a
statement after his meeting with Yellen pledged to move her
nomination “quickly” and said he would vote for confirmation.  “She has a keen understanding of how the Federal Reserve’s
work impacts every American” Johnson said.  Yellen’s confirmation hearing before the Senate Banking
Committee is scheduled for Nov. 14. The comments from Shelby of
Alabama may be a preview of how Yellen, 67, fares with other
Senate Republicans.  President  Barack Obama  nominated Yellen on Oct. 9 to
succeed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , whose term expires Jan. 31.
Yellen must be approved by the committee before the nomination
would advance to the full Senate for a confirmation vote.  Paul’s Hold  Democrats -- including Yellen supporters  Sherrod Brown  of
Ohio and  Jeff Merkley  of Oregon -- have 12 members on the
committee with 10 Republican members.  Senator Rand Paul, a Kentucky Republican who vowed to hold
up the nomination in order to get a vote on legislation that
would require a public audit of the Fed, said today Yellen will
be confirmed.  Asked if Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  had the votes
for confirmation, Paul said, “in all likelihood, yes.”  “Even if I stand on the floor and filibuster in a personal
fashion, I can only hold it there for two days,” Paul said
today in an interview for Bloomberg Television’s “Political
Capital with  Al Hunt ” airing this weekend. “But I want to draw
attention to the fact that Audit the Fed has been held hostage
by Senator Reid for three years.”  Paul’s measure would require a complete audit of the U.S.
central bank, including its decision-making about monetary
policy.  Audit Sought  “Apparently Janet Yellen’s been in favor of transparency
at the Fed,” Paul said. “That’s all we’re asking for is an
open audit a year after the fact.”  Members of the banking committee are reviewing Yellen’s
nomination paperwork, including financial disclosures. A copy of
those disclosures, obtained through the Office of Government
Ethics, shows finances that are little changed from the annual
disclosure she made as Fed vice chairman.  Yellen and her husband,  George Akerlof , the Nobel-winning
economist who was her colleague at the  University of California 
at Berkeley, have assets valued at $4.8 million to $13.3
million. The assets are reported in a range, making a precise
evaluation of their net worth impossible.  Their largest investment, valued at $1 million to $5
million, is in a Vanguard fund that tracks the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index, according to the documents dates Sept. 24.  They have three accounts valued from $500,000 to $1
million: two bond funds and an international stock fund. They
also receive royalties from academic publishers tied to
Princeton University, Cambridge University and Oxford University
for their published work.  Yellen and her husband are eligible for about $23,000 a
month in pension income from Berkeley, where she holds the title
of  professor emeritus . In a letter accompanying her disclosure,
Yellen said she wouldn’t provide services to the university
during her tenure at the Fed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  