-- Zurich Insurance Says Confident on Profitability Measure
-- B y   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l
-- 2013-10-31T17:06:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-31/zurich-insurance-says-it-s-confident-on-profitability-measure.html
Zurich Insurance Group AG (ZURN) ,
Switzerland’s biggest insurer, said it is still “confident”
its non-life unit can improve a profitability target with cost
cutting after it announced in August it may miss the goal
relative to peers.  The combined ratio, or claims and expenses as a percentage
of premiums, will “see a substantial improvement” this year
compared with 2010, Mike Kerner, chief executive officer of the
Zurich-based firm’s general insurance business, said in an
interview on Oct. 29.  “We’ve been diligent about the way we manage our expenses
and our ability to get rate increases,” Kerner, 47, said. “The
simplification in the business is expected to create further
improvement in the expenses.”  The insurer said in August that reaching its target to
improve the combined ratio by as much as 4 percentage points
“relative to competitors” including Germany’s  Allianz SE (ALV)  by
the end of 2013 could be challenging. The measure for the
division rose to 95.6 percent in June from 94.8 percent a year
earlier, indicating a deterioration in underwriting amid
weather-related losses.  Business from  emerging markets  and North America will make
up a bigger share of premiums in the future, while Europe will
decrease relatively, Kerner said. Kerner’s non-life unit
contributes about half of the company’s total revenue, according
to  data compiled by Bloomberg .  Make Acquisitions?  Zurich expects to see “substantial growth” from emerging
markets including Brazil, Indonesia,  Malaysia , Mexico and the
United Arab Emirates in the next five to 10 years. The company
may make acquisitions, he said.  In the first half of the year, Zurich’s general insurance
unit generated 47.4 percent of revenue from Europe, 36.3 percent
from North America, and 16.3 percent from countries in  Latin
America , the Asia-Pacific region,  Middle East  and  Africa ,
according to company filings.  “We have clear a commitment to  Turkey  and places like
China and there could be some inorganic opportunities to do some
things in those countries in particular, though all the emerging
markets have potential,” Kerner said.  Sales of insurance to corporate customers is another
potential source of growth, Kerner said. The company, which
currently targets companies with revenue above $500 million,
will offer products to smaller and mid-sized companies
particularly in Europe with about $50 million in sales or less,
he said.  Shares dropped 0.1 percent in Zurich trading, trimming this
year’s gains to 3.1 percent.  Zurich Insurance is due to report third-quarter earnings on
Nov. 14 and will hold an investor day on Dec. 5 to update
shareholders on new targets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carolyn Bandel in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  