-- AB InBev, U.S. Antitrust Case to Stay Hold Until April 9
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g   a n d   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2013-03-20T15:48:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/ab-inbev-u-s-antitrust-lawsuit-put-on-hold-by-judge.html
Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI)  and the
U.S.  Justice Department  obtained a second postponement of the
government’s antitrust lawsuit seeking to block the brewer’s
purchase of Grupo Modelo SAB as settlement talks continue.  U.S. District Judge Richard Roberts in  Washington  suspended
the case until April 9 in a one-page order, when the two sides
must brief him on a possible resolution. The order, signed March
18, was made public today.  “There’s no point in the judge insisting on the case being
actively litigated when the parties have told him they are well
on the way to a possible settlement,” said Allen Grunes, an
antitrust lawyer with Brownstein Hyatt Farber Schreck LLP in
Washington, who isn’t involved in the case.  AB InBev and the government sought the delay in a joint
filing last week, citing “substantial progress” toward a
settlement. They said the talks are based on a revised proposal
for Modelo to sell control of all Modelo brands in the U.S., and
a brewery it built in Piedras Negras,  Mexico , to  Constellation
Brands Inc. (STZ) , a winemaker and beverage distribution company.  The Justice Department is reviewing Constellation’s plan to
boost brewing capacity by about 70 percent at the Piedras Negras
plant to ensure Modelo-brand products will remain viable as
competitors in the U.S. beer market, two people familiar with
the matter, who asked not to be named because the talks are
confidential, said March 8.  Independent Supply  An independent beer supply that can meet U.S. demand is
critical to resolving regulators’ antitrust concerns that
Leuven, Belgium-based AB InBev’s proposed $20.1 billion purchase
of the rest of Mexico City-based Modelo would hurt competition
and lead to higher prices, said the people.  The plant’s sale is the key element the revised proposal AB
InBev submitted Feb. 14 to resolve the U.S. lawsuit. Under the
plan, Constellation would pay $2.9 billion for production assets
and perpetual rights to Modelo brands in the U.S. The revised
deal may make Constellation, which now isn’t a beermaker, the
third-largest brewer in the U.S.  AB InBev, the world’s biggest brewer, controls almost half
the U.S. beer market, while Modelo’s Corona is the country’s
biggest-selling imported brand.  Revised Deal  Under the revised deal, AB InBev also gave up an option to
buy back a stake in Crown Imports LLC, the U.S. distributor of
Corona and the other Modelo brands. Crown, owned jointly by
Modelo and Constellation, would be entirely owned by Victor, New
York-based Constellation as part of the plan.  AB InBev agreed to buy the 50 percent of Modelo it didn’t
own in June 2012, seeking to increase its penetration of
 emerging markets . Beer sales are rising at a faster pace in
Mexico than in developed economies such as the U.S., the world’s
second-biggest beer market by volume after  China .  Constellation and Crown Imports, which had filed to
intervene in the case, agreed to the April postponement,
according to the filing. The judge had agreed to an earlier
delay so talks could continue.  The Piedras Negras brewery, just across the border near
Eagle Pass,  Texas , is the crown jewel of Modelo’s manufacturing
network, Constellation Chief Executive Officer Robert Sands said
in a Feb. 14 interview.  The plant’s current production can meet about 60 percent of
the supply needed for Modelo brands in the U.S., Sands said.
Constellation plans to invest $400 million to expand the plant’s
capacity to about 17 million hectoliters so it can satisfy all
U.S. demand.  AB InBev agreed to supply Constellation during the
expansion with the additional beer it needs through a three-year
supply contract.  The case is U.S. v. Anheuser-Busch InBev NV, 13-cv-00127,
U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  