-- Absolute Capital’s Homm Is Charged With Securities Fraud
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t   a n d   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2013-03-20T21:51:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/absolute-capital-s-homm-is-charged-with-securities-fraud.html
The fugitive German hedge fund
manager who more than five years ago fled the Spanish island of
 Mallorca  with $500,000 hidden in his underwear and luggage was
charged with securities and wire fraud.  A federal grand jury in Los Angeles, California, charged
Florian Homm, 53, in a 10-count indictment, U.S. Attorney Andre Birotte Jr. said today in an e-mailed statement.  Homm was arrested by Italian police on March 8 in Florence,
 Italy , at the  Uffizi Gallery , the world-famous museum that
houses Sandro Botticelli’s “Birth of Venus” and Leonardo da Vinci’s “Annunciation.”  Homm is accused of defrauding investors in hedge funds he
controlled, causing $200 million in losses. He is charged with
one count of conspiracy, eight counts of securities fraud, and
one count of wire fraud in an indictment filed yesterday, which
replaces an earlier criminal complaint, according to the
statement.  The founder and former chief investment officer of Cayman
Islands-based Absolute Capital Management Holdings Ltd. is
accused of “cross trading” billions of shares of penny stocks
between the company’s funds to boost the value of the otherwise
illiquid securities.  Inflated Prices  The trades, through a Los Angeles-based broker-dealer that
Homm co-owned, generated fees for Homm and Absolute Capital and
also inflated the price of Absolute Capital’s shares,
prosecutors said. Homm sold his shares and resigned from
Absolute Capital on Sept. 18, 2007, according to the statement.  Homm is still in Florence awaiting extradition. There is
no date set for those proceedings.  Homm doesn’t have a lawyer yet in the criminal case,
according to Stephen Cazares, an assistant U.S. attorney in the
case.  The case is U.S. v. Homm, 13-MJ-00740, U.S. District Court,
Central District of  California  (Los Angeles). The SEC case is
Securities and Exchange Commission v. Ficeto, 11-cv-01637, U.S.
District Court, Central District of California (Los Angeles).  To contact the reporters on this story:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net 
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles federal court
at   epettersson@bloomberg.net  