-- Act-of-War Defense Bars Sept. 11 Superfund Claim
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-03-20T21:46:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/act-of-war-defense-bars-sept-11-superfund-claim.html
A lower  Manhattan  building owner is
barred from recovering the cost of cleaning up dust from the
destruction of the World Trade Center because the Sept. 11,
2001, attacks constituted an “act of war,” a federal judge
ruled.  Cedar & Washington Associates LLC, owner of a 12-story
building near the felled office-tower complex, sued in 2008 to
remove pulverized material from the destruction under the
Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability
Act of 1980, also known as the Superfund law. Superfund defenses
bar plaintiffs from recovering damages caused solely by acts of
war or acts of God, such as natural disasters.  U.S. District Judge Alvin Hellerstein in Manhattan said
today that the “act of war” defense applies to Cedar and
 Washington  Associates’ claim.  “Since the hazardous material plaintiff cleaned, and for
which plaintiff sues, arose from the hijacked airplanes’
collisions with the World Trade Center, plaintiff’s damages
arise from an act of war,” Hellerstein wrote, applying the
defense to the airlines after finding it barred recovery against
the other defendants.  Hellerstein had dismissed the lawsuit earlier for reasons
including that the suit was filed too late. His ruling today
came after a federal appeals court considered the case and sent
it back to him.  Defendants’ Victory  The decision is a victory for the defendants, including the
 Port Authority  of  New York  & New Jersey, which owned the World
Trade Center, Silverstein Properties Inc.,  AMR Corp.’s (AAMRQ)   American
Airlines  and United Continental Holdings’  United Airlines .
Families of people killed or injured in the disaster, nearby
business owners and others have sued, claiming the defendants’
negligence caused their losses.  In the attacks, terrorists hijacked airliners and flew them
into the two World Trade Center towers and the Pentagon, outside
Washington. A fourth hijacked jet crashed into a field in
Pennsylvania. The attacks killed about 3,000 people. The
collapse of the towers and nearby buildings caused debris to
billow through the streets of lower Manhattan, covering
everything near the site with a thick layer of dust.  Hellerstein said that his ruling “should be read narrowly,
fitting the facts of this case only.”  The case is Cedar & Washington Associates v. Port Authority
of New York &  New Jersey , 08-cv-09146, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 