-- Adobe Rises as Profit Tops Estimates on Web-Software Push
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2013-03-20T13:43:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/adobe-shares-rise-as-profit-tops-estimates-on-web-software-sales.html
Adobe Systems Inc. (ADBE)  rose to the
highest price since 2008 after reporting sales and profit that
exceeded analysts’ estimates as more customers flocked to online
versions of the company’s graphic-design software.  Sales for the fiscal first-quarter, which ended March 1,
were $1.01 billion,  San Jose , California-based Adobe said in a
statement yesterday. That topped the average $985.8 million
 projection , according to analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. Profit excluding some items was 35 cents a share,
beating an average prediction for 31 cents.  Chief Executive Officer Shantanu Narayen is pushing to sell
more products over the Web and on mobile devices such as tablets
to cut Adobe’s reliance on software that’s installed and stored
on computers. Adobe added 153,000 subscribers during the first
quarter to its Creative Cloud tools -- including Photoshop,
Dreamweaver and Illustrator -- and expects to reach 1.25 million
by the end of its fiscal year.  “They’re making this migration even faster than
expected,” said Brendan Barnicle, an analyst at Pacific Crest
Securities LLC. He rates the shares sector perform, the
equivalent of hold. “They’re adjusting their revenues to a
subscriptions basis and they still well exceeded expectations.”  Shares of Adobe rose 4.5 percent to $42.60 at 9:39 a.m. in
 New York , and earlier touched $43.23 for the highest intraday
price since September 2008. Through yesterday, the stock had
gained 8.1 percent this year, compared with an 8.6 percent
increase for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Product Cycles  First-quarter  net income  fell 65 percent to $65.1 million,
or 13 cents a share, from $185.2 million, or 37 cents, a year
earlier.  Moving more customers to the frequently updated Creative
Cloud can help Adobe smooth out its revenue, as well as stock-
price fluctuations from investors buying shares in anticipation
of new product releases every two years or so, Chief Financial
Officer Mark Garrett said in an interview.  “People were buying on product cycles,” Garrett said.
“It’s a very different company” now that cloud subscriptions
are increasing, he said.  Adobe is losing Kevin Lynch, its longtime chief technology
officer. Lynch resigned this week to take a job at  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,
Adobe said, and the CTO position won’t be filled. Bryan Lamkin
will assume responsibilities for cross-company research and
technology initiatives, Adobe said.  For the current quarter, which ends in May, Adobe  forecast 
revenue of $975 million to $1.03 billion, compared with
analysts’ average estimate for $1.02 billion. Profit, excluding
stock-based compensation, restructuring, amortization and other
items, will be 29 cents to 35 cents a share in the current
period, Adobe said. Analysts are projecting 34 cents a share.  Creative Cloud  Narayen has also been moving Adobe further into software
for online marketing. A revised version of Adobe’s Marketing
Cloud software, to go on sale in the coming months, will include
touch-screen capabilities for use on tablets and digital
“cards” that can embed charts or snippets of advertising
campaigns for sharing between co-workers. There are currently
more than 500,000 Creative Cloud subscribers, Adobe said.  “The majority of the subscriber base will come from
existing customers,” Garrett said on a conference call.  Adobe is driving sales of Creative Cloud and will
eventually tailor pricing to keep customer subscriptions,
according to Peter Goldmacher, an analyst at Cowen & Co.  “The speed of the transition is the paramount thing on
investors’ minds,” said  Steven Ashley , an analyst at Robert W.
Baird & Co. Ashley, who is based in  Milwaukee , has a  neutral 
rating for Adobe shares. “We all know this is the transition
year.”  Sales for the current fiscal year will be about $4.1
billion, Adobe said, reiterating its previous outlook. The
company raised its forecast for full-year profit, excluding
items, to $1.45 a share from $1.40.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  