-- Hagel Pressed to Add East Coast Missile Defense Site
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-03-20T20:05:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/hagel-pressed-to-add-east-coast-missile-defense-site.html
Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel
should include funds in the Pentagon’s next budget request to
start work on a U.S. East Coast site for 20 anti-missile
interceptors as a defense against Iran,  House Republicans  said.  The plea for “not less than $250 million” in the fiscal
2014 budget to be presented next month was made yesterday in a
letter from 19 Republicans on the House Armed Services
Committee, led by Representative Howard P. “Buck” McKeon of
 California , the committee’s chairman.  For the second consecutive year, the lawmakers are pushing
for an East Coast array of interceptors to complement the 30
already deployed in a $34 billion system on the West Coast. They
seized on Hagel’s announcement March 15 of plans to add 14 more
in  Alaska  by fiscal 2017 to counter escalating threats from
 North Korea  as it seeks to develop nuclear weapons.  “There is no legitimate reason to not similarly defend the
eastern third of the U.S. from Iranian missiles,” they said in
the letter.  “In fact, it appears Iran could flight-test an ICBM this
year,” the lawmakers wrote, without citing evidence for their
contention that the nation is close to producing an
intercontinental ballistic missile.  Expanding the anti-missile system would benefit defense
contractors including Dulles, Virginia-based  Orbital Sciences
Corp. (ORB) , which makes the interceptors topped by hit-to-kill
warheads from  Raytheon Co. (RTN) , based in Waltham,  Massachusetts .
Chicago-based  Boeing Co. (BA)  manages the ground-based system.  Effectiveness Questioned  The anti-missile array’s effectiveness remains in question.
Since the Pentagon’s  Missile Defense Agency  began testing it in
1999, interceptors have struck dummy targets in eight of 16
tests.  The Republican lawmakers cited Hagel’s plan to pay for the
$1 billion expansion in Alaska with funds previously planned to
develop a faster and bigger missile interceptor for a European-
based system that is aimed in part at Iranian missiles.  The lawmakers said this amounts to cancellation of the
advanced rocket, the  SM-3 IIB , leaving a “large gap” in
defenses against  Iran ’s potential nuclear arsenal. The U.S. and
European Union have imposed economic sanctions to pressure Iran
to abandon its nuclear program, which they say may lead to
development of an atomic bomb. Iran says its program is for
civilian purposes.  The letter presages a political fight in the 2014 fiscal
budget process over a third U.S. site.  Iranian Capabilities  The lawmakers pressed their case today during a hearing
with Army General Charles Jacoby, head of the U.S. Northern
Command, which would manage operation of the system if the U.S.
were attacked.  “We should consider that Iran has a capability within the
next few years of flight testing ICBM capable technologies,”
Jacoby said.  Asked about the use of a third site, Jacoby said that
“wherever the decision is to build” one, it would “allow us
the battle space to more optimize our defense against future
threats from Iran and North Korea.”  Senator  Carl Levin , the Michigan Democrat who heads the
Senate Armed Services panel, opposes an East Coast site as
unnecessary. Senator  James Inhofe  of  Oklahoma , the committee’s
top Republican, favors it.  ‘Enhanced Protection’  An East Coast site “would have advantages over the Alaska-
based interceptors” and those planned in southern  Europe  in
providing enhanced protection “against a Middle Eastern
threat,” said Greg Thielmann, a senior fellow at the Arms
Control Association in  Washington  and a former State Department
intelligence official.  “Whether such an expensive scheme would be cost-effective
in terms of the stressed  defense budget  is a different
question,” he said in an e-mail.  North Korea or Iran “would be deterred from a nuclear
attack on the U.S. or its allies by the certainty that such an
attack would result in the end of their regimes –- not by the
possibility that some of the missiles they fired at the  United
States  might be intercepted,” he said.  The House Armed Services Committee included $100 million of
initial funding for an East Coast anti-missile array in its
version of this year’s defense authorization bill. The provision
was rejected by the Senate panel, and a compromise directed the
Pentagon to produce an environmental impact statement on
potential East Coast locations. Hagel said last week that the
Pentagon was conducting the required study.  Providing Options  Jacoby said today that completing the study will “allow us
to keep making steps in the direction to provide us options.”  The lawmakers’ demands are buttressed in part by the
findings last year of a nonpartisan review by the National
Research Council. It recommended adding a third site,
potentially at Fort Drum in upstate  New York  or in northern
 Maine , in tandem with additional precision tracking radar.  This approach would “more effectively protect” the
eastern United States and  Canada , “particularly against Iranian
ICBM threats should they emerge,” the council said.  Director of National Intelligence James Clapper said last
week in his annual worldwide threat assessment that Iran “would
likely choose a ballistic missile as its preferred method” of
delivering a nuclear weapon “if one is ever fielded.”  “We grow increasingly concerned” that Iran’s technical
successes at launching a small satellite will “provide Tehran
with the means and motivation to develop” longer-range
missiles, including ICBMs, Clapper said.  Test Failures  The last successful intercept of a target by the U.S.
system was in December 2008. In 2010, it failed to hit targets
in two tests using a new warhead, one in January and the other
in December. After those failures, the agency found a flaw in
the guidance system of the newest Raytheon-made warhead.  A test to intercept a target is scheduled for later this
year or early 2014 to confirm that the guidance flaw has been
fixed, Lieutenant Colonel James Gregory, a Pentagon spokesman,
said in an e-mail today.  Hagel said last week that the Pentagon won’t proceed with
adding more interceptors unless it does.  Pentagon test director  Michael Gilmore  said in an e-mail
today that a January flight test to assess the new warhead’s
performance in space “achieved all of its objectives.”  For Related News and Information:
Obama Backs Unproven Defense Against Uncertain Nuke Threats  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  