-- Thai, Philippine Stocks Fall Most in Asia on Valuation Concerns
-- B y   I a n   S a y s o n
-- 2013-03-20T05:59:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/thai-philippine-stocks-fall-most-in-asia-on-valuation-concerns.html
Thai stocks tumbled the most in
Asia and Philippine shares headed for their longest losing
streak since 2008 amid growing concern that valuations are too
expensive after reaching record levels this month.  Thailand ’s  SET Index (SET)  dropped 1.8 percent to 1,539.89 at
12:36 p.m. in Bangkok, poised for the biggest three-day tumble
since May 2012.  Kasikornbank Pcl (KBANK) , the country’s fourth-largest
listed lender by assets, lost 3.7 percent. The  Philippine Stock
Exchange Index (PCOMP)  retreated for an eighth day, falling 0.8 percent
to 6,373.50.  Alliance Global Group Inc. (AGI)  declined 3.2 percent to
a six-week low.  Benchmark equity gauges in the two Southeast Asian
countries have surged more than 20 percent during the past year,
bucking a 2.4 percent drop in the  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF) ,
as growing infrastructure spending and consumer purchases
boosted corporate profits. The SET  traded  at 14 times estimated
earnings last week, the highest level since Bloomberg began
tracking the data in 2006, while the Philippine multiple reached
an all-time high of about 19 times.  “Investors are just playing it safe by getting some money
off the table,” said Steve Sevidal, who helps manage $1.04
billion as chief investment officer at Manila-based United
Coconut Planters Bank. “It’s a prudent move to cut your
weighting when there’s  risk aversion  and it’s those markets that
have a very good run and where valuations are above historical
levels that are very susceptible for profit-taking.”  Speculative Inflows  Overseas investors sold a net $88 million of Thai shares
during the past two days, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The  Philippines  has recorded five straight days of
outflows totaling $125 million, the longest stretch of net
withdrawals since October, the data show.  Efforts by Philippine policy makers to curb speculative
inflows may reduce demand for the country’s assets, Prakash Sakpal, a Singapore-based economist at ING Groep NV, wrote in a
report yesterday. The central bank cut the rate it pays on
special deposit accounts last week for a second time this year
in an attempt to restrain currency gains.  Thai Central bank Governor Prasarn Trairatvorakul said
yesterday its monetary policy committee doesn’t plan to hold a
special meeting and strength of Thai economy is attracting
capital inflows. Special measures to stem rapid appreciation of
the baht aren’t needed at the moment, Thai Finance Minister
Kittiratt Na-Ranong told reporters in Bangkok. The baht rose 0.5
percent today to 29.17, the strongest level since July 1997.  Thai Growth  Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra said March 11 that the
government is targeting annual economic growth of 4 percent to 5
percent over the long term, after a 6.4 percent expansion in
2012. The Bank of Thailand raised its 2013 growth forecast in
January to 4.9 percent from an October prediction of 4.6 percent
and signaled it may revise the estimate higher.  The Philippines’s $225 billion economy expanded at the
fastest pace in two years in 2012, surpassing neighbors in
Southeast  Asia , helped by a record-low 3.5 percent benchmark
rate and inflation near the lower end of a 3 percent to 5
percent target range.  Srithai Superware Public Co. (SITHAI)  lost 4.8 percent to 25 baht.
 Khon Kaen Sugar Industry Pcl (KSL)  dropped 2.9 percent to 13.20 baht.
Bualuang Securities PCL said in a report today that these
companies are among those most affected by the rising baht.  Kasikornbank retreated 2.8 percent to 209 baht. Alliance
Global Group dropped 3.2 percent to 19.98 pesos. Some investors
may be pricing in expected traffic migration from the company’s
casino since Solaire opened a rival casino on March 16,
according to Wealth Securities Inc.  Thai and Philippine stock markets may see a temporary
selldown in the next few weeks, offering investors a good entry
point, Samsung Asset Management Co. fund manager  Alan Richardson 
said in a phone interview from  Hong Kong  today.  “In the long-term, both countries are still in a virtuous
cycle of investment-led growth for the next three years, ahead
of the 2015 Asean economic community, so investors are prepared
to look at the bigger picture and treat selldowns of more than
10 percent as buying opportunities,” Richardson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allen Wan at 
 awan3@bloomberg.net  