-- Sock Maker Hack Shows Small-Business Risk Chased by AIG
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r   a n d   E l i z a b e t h   B u n n
-- 2013-03-20T13:54:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/aig-among-insurers-seeking-more-sales-as-small-firms-get-hacked.html
Jim Throneburg  invented  Thorlos
socks in 1980 and set out to build a brand worthy of the slogan,
“caretakers of the world’s feet.”  His company, Thorlo Inc., recently found out that it’s also
in the business of taking care of customer data. In January, the
Statesville, North Carolina-based business discovered hackers
had been intercepting information on the Web after a customer
reported a fraudulent credit-card charge.  “It was quite shocking to us that our little company got
on the radar screen of people like this,” said J. Lynn
Thorneburg, the owner’s son and Thorlo’s general counsel, whose
last name is spelled  differently  from his father’s.  Smaller companies are learning that, as more data is shared
online, they, too, can be targets for the kinds of attacks that
larger firms endure.  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  and
 Travelers Cos. (TRV)  are among insurers tailoring cybersecurity
products to those customers.  Small and mid-size companies are “where we’re going to see
some of the most aggressive growth in the next couple of years,
because it’s been a part of the market that was ignored,” said
Bob Parisi, network security and privacy practice leader at
Marsh Inc., the insurance brokerage of Marsh & McLennan Cos.  Insurers have been selling cyber protection for more than a
decade to help clients shoulder costs from data breaches,
computer viruses and other types of electronic fraud. The
policies, underwritten by companies including  Ace Ltd. (ACE) ,  Chubb
Corp. (CB)  and  CNA Financial Corp. (CNA) , typically cover liability from
hacking and provide technical support. They can also defray
costs of complying with laws that require companies to notify
customers when private information has been compromised.  Attacks Mount  Cyber risks have gained renewed national attention after
revelations about a breach of a U.S. Federal Reserve website,
intrusions at the New York Times attributed to Chinese hackers
and a wave of so-called denial-of-service attacks on the biggest
U.S. banks and payment networks. Microsoft Corp. and Facebook
Inc. have been targeted by malicious software.  Hackers temporarily shut down  computer networks  today at
South Korean broadcasters and banks in the biggest cyberattack
on the nation in two years, prompting the government to
investigate possible links with  North Korea .  Awareness about computer crime and more-affordable policies
are leading smaller businesses to view cyber insurance as
essential, Marsh said in a  report  this month. The number of
clients buying the coverage climbed by 33 percent last year from
2011, the broker’s data show. Service businesses including
accounting and law firms led the gains.  Policy sales still trail other lines of commercial coverage
and probably were $250 million to $350 million last year, Parisi
said.  Expanding Sales  AIG’s cyber-coverage premiums climbed by more than 20
percent last year, according to Tracie Grella, the insurer’s
global head of professional liability for financial lines. Her
team is working to expand sales to smaller firms.  “That’s where the opportunity is,” Grella said. “It’s a
bigger universe” than the large accounts that were earlier
adopters of the coverage.  Travelers, the only property insurer in the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average (INDU) , introduced cyber-insurance coverage focused
on small businesses in January after seeing a gain in demand
from customers and agents, said Tim Francis, the New York-based
company’s enterprise cyber-insurance lead.  Smaller businesses used to have a mentality that “nobody’s
going to even bother to hack into my business, they’re after
bigger fish,” he said. “That really isn’t the case,” he said.
“There are bad guys out there that are looking to get
information in the easiest way possible.”  Clients Exposed  Hackers installed a file on the system of David Handmaker’s
Rancho Dominguez, California-based online print shop,  Next Day
Flyers , exposing clients’ names, addresses and credit-card
numbers for almost two weeks last year. After discovering the
breach, he had to notify customers who had ordered from his
website.  “We’re just much, much more aware of the fact that being a
small company” makes us more of a target, he said. Larger
businesses have “more resources, and so I think their security
practices are maybe a little more evolved.”  Expenses for a data breach can add up, according to
Thorlo’s Thorneburg. The sock company went through a $50,000
limit on its cyber-insurance policy as it spent to notify
customers and regulators. It also had to pay employees to stuff
envelopes for a mailing to affected people.  The cost of compliance was a “bitter pill,” he said in a
phone interview. “The legal fees are substantial.”  Data Breaches  Among companies with less than $10 million in annual
revenue, data breaches have become common, according to a survey
sponsored by Hartford Steam Boiler, a unit of  Germany ’s  Munich
Re . The results released this month showed 55 percent of the
more than 1,200 respondents had experienced loss or theft of
data. Most breaches were caused by employee or contractor
mistakes, the results show.  “Hacking gets a lot of the attention, but old-school
breaches are very prevalent as well,” Eric Cernak, a vice
president at  Hartford Steam Boiler , said in an interview. Claims
can involve paper records stolen from trash bins and missing
laptops, he said.  Selling cyber policies to small and mid-size businesses may
help insurers diversify their risk, as well as boost sales, said
Marsh’s Parisi.  “It’s probably not the best thing in the world to have
your book entirely comprised of the top 100 retailers and the
top 10 banks,” said Parisi, who helped pioneer cyber coverage
at AIG, before joining Marsh. “You’re sitting on top of a lot
of potentially catastrophic losses.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net ;
Elizabeth Bunn in New York at 
 ebunn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  