-- Airline Profits to Top $10 Billion on Improving Sales Outlook
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-03-20T09:30:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/airline-profits-to-top-10-billion-on-improving-sales-outlook.html
Airlines will exceed last year’s
earnings by about 40 percent in 2013, with net income likely to
reach $10.6 billion, as sales growth outpaces higher fuel costs
and improves the outlook for the industry globally.  Carriers in the Asia-Pacific region are set to lead the
gain with $4.2 billion in profit, followed by $3.6 billion for
those in  North America , the  International Air Transport
Association  said in a statement today. Even  Europe  and Africa,
previously expected to only break even, stand to deliver $800
million and $100 million gains, the group said.  Sluggish growth and fuel costs have weighed on earnings in
recent years, forcing airlines such as  Air France-KLM (AF) , Europe’s
largest, to pursue cost cuts. Carriers have also sought closer
international ties, with Etihad Airways PJSC, the third-largest
Gulf carrier, investing in operators such as  Air Berlin Plc (AB1) , and
 Finnair Oyj (FIA1S)  joining a trans-Atlantic joint venture involving
 British Airways (IAG) , Iberia and  American Airlines .  “Industry consolidation in domestic markets and joint
ventures on long-haul routes have helped improve efficiency,”
IATA Director General  Tony Tyler  said on a call. The improved
outlook “is a small step in the right direction.”  Growth in traffic, the number of customers times the
distance flown, should reach 5.4 percent, with air freight
increasing 2.7 percent as global production improves, IATA said.
Aircraft utilization is at near-record levels, Brian Pearce,
IATA’s chief economist, said the call.  Fragile Recovery  Still, the recovery remains fragile, with a European
economic comeback and U.S. budget cuts among the concerns, Tyler
said.  “We have had two false starts already,” he said. “The
draconian measures proposed for Cyprus were a shock.”  Airlines are being forced to carry extra fuel because
diversion airfields are not operating because of Federal
Aviation Administration cutbacks, Tyler said. While the impact
for now is still limited, it could worsen, he said.  Industrywide revenue is expected to reach $671 billion, a
$12 billion improvement over IATA’s December estimate, with
small growth in cargo joining a forecast of 5.4 percent
passenger growth.  Fuel will remain at 33 percent of airline costs, IATA said,
with the anticipated total bill rising $6 billion to $216
billion. That figure is driven by an expected average jet fuel
price of $130 per barrel from $124.  IATA expects profit margin to reach 1.6 percent, beating
last year’s 1.2 percent performance and the third highest level
since 2000, Tyler said.  “We are nowhere near approaching what would be considered
a normal return for other industries,” Tyler said. “There is
very little buffer between profit and loss.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  