-- Airport Tower Closings Grow Nearer After U.S. Senate Vote
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2013-03-21T04:01:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/airport-towers-closings-grow-nearer-after-senate-vote.html
A legislative effort to spare 189
privately run airport control towers from closing next month as
part of automatic  federal budget  cuts failed when the Senate
refused to take up the issue.  Senator Jerry Moran, a Kansas Republican, saying he was
seeking to protect “the safety of Americans,” yesterday
briefly held up a vote on the bill to fund the government
through Sept. 30 because an amendment to shield the towers from
the spending reductions wasn’t in the package.  The U.S.  Federal Aviation Administration  has said it will
have to shut as many as 238 airport towers under automatic cuts
known as sequestration. Of the total, 189 are operated by
private firms and 48 are staffed by FAA controllers.  “Our legislative options are between nil and zero right
now,” Spencer Dickerson, a president of the  American
Association  of Airport Executives, said in an interview. “It’s
pretty bleak.”  Dickerson, who also heads the Alexandria, Virginia-based
Contract Tower Association, said the FAA is expected to release
tomorrow a final list of facilities that will close as early as
April 7. The agency had allowed airports to appeal the tower
closings while cautioning that few would be approved.  Moran’s effort to keep the towers open was backed by
Senator  Roger Wicker , a Mississippi Republican, who said the
administration is using the threat of a shutdown as a weapon
against Republicans.  “By moving a small amount of money, we can bolster public
safety by keeping air traffic contract towers open,” Wicker
said in an interview.  The FAA must cut $627 million in expenses by Sept. 30
unless Congress overturns sequestration, Administrator Michael Huerta told a House hearing on Feb. 27. The agency will also
make almost all its 47,000 employees, including air-traffic
controllers, take an unpaid day off every two weeks, Huerta
said. The furloughs, which start April 21, may trigger flight
delays at large airports, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  