-- Malaysia Sees Price Pressures as Domestic Demand Spurs Growth
-- B y   E l f f i e   C h e w
-- 2013-03-20T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/malaysia-sees-price-pressures-as-domestic-demand-spurs-growth.html
Malaysia ’s economy may expand as
much as 6 percent this year on domestic demand and investment,
and inflation is expected to accelerate, the central bank said.  Gross domestic product  will probably increase 5 percent to
6 percent in 2013, after growth of 5.6 percent last year, Bank
Negara Malaysia said in its annual report released in Kuala
Lumpur today. That’s higher than the Finance Ministry’s previous
forecast of 4.5 percent to 5.5 percent. Inflation may average 2
percent to 3 percent in 2013 from 1.6 percent last year, it said.  Southeast Asian nations have shown resilience to the global
slowdown, with Malaysia’s economy expanding at the fastest pace
in more than two years last quarter. The central bank has held
 interest rates  for 11 meetings as consumer price gains that are
among the lowest in the region reduced the need for additional
monetary stimulus.  “Economic activity will be anchored by the continued
resilience of domestic demand, and supported by a gradual
improvement in the external sector,” the central bank said.
“Monetary policy in 2013 will focus on addressing potential
risks to inflation and growth.”  The ringgit has lost about 2 percent this year amid concern
Prime Minister Najib Razak’s ruling coalition will lose seats in
parliament in elections that must be held by late June. The FTSE
Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index of stocks has fallen 3.7 percent after
hitting a record on Jan. 7.  Policy Outlook  Monetary policy this year will be shaped by the uneven
recovery in the world economy, persistent volatility in the
financial and commodities markets, large capital flows and
domestic development, Bank Negara said today. The prime minister
has increased government spending by extending cash handouts to
low-income families and raising civil servants’ pensions while
refraining from cutting fuel subsidies.  “We expect Bank Negara Malaysia to calibrate an
appropriate monetary policy to balance between the inflation
risk and keeping up the growth momentum,” Lee Heng Guie, chief
economist at CIMB Investment Bank in Kuala Lumpur, said before
the report. “We think there is an even chance that the central
bank will raise policy rate in the second half when economic
conditions improve further.”  While global growth is projected to improve in 2013, the
performance of advanced economies continues to be uneven amid
structural weaknesses and ongoing strains in public finances,
the central bank said. Lawmakers in Cyprus yesterday rejected an
unprecedented plan to force depositors in the Mediterranean
nation to shoulder part of a bailout with their savings,
reigniting concern the  European debt crisis  will worsen.  Strong Inflows  The large-scale policy easing in major economies has led to
strong inflows into  emerging markets  and this trend is expected
to continue, Bank Negara said. These capital flows could result
in macroeconomic and financial instability and might lead to
excessive increases in exchange rates and asset prices in the
recipient countries, it said.  Bank Negara may be vigilant on spillover effects from
global liquidity to ensure rates are not too low to encourage
risk-taking and excessive leveraging, CIMB’s Lee said.  Domestic demand, which is expected to remain the major
contributor and driver of economic growth, is forecast to grow
8.1 percent in 2013, after climbing 10.6 percent last year, the
central bank said. Manufacturing may expand 4.9 percent this
year, more than the 4.8 percent pace in 2012, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elffie Chew in Kuala Lumpur at 
 echew16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  