-- Alibaba Options for Mobile Growth Include Acquisitions, Ma Says
-- B y   L u l u   Y i l u n   C h e n
-- 2013-03-20T12:26:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/alibaba-options-for-mobile-growth-include-acquisitions-ma-says.html
Billionaire Jack Ma, founder of
Alibaba Group Holding Ltd., said  China ’s largest e-commerce
company may use acquisitions to boost its growth through apps
for smartphones and tablets.  Alibaba started developing its mobile business three years
ago and hasn’t kept up with competitor  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700)  and
its WeChat messaging service, Ma said at the Credit Suisse Asian
Investment Conference in Hong Kong today. Tencent earlier posted
net income that rose 37 percent in the fourth quarter and said
WeChat had more than 300 million users by January.  “We also invested heavily, but we are not that lucky and
not creative, so creative like Tencent, which has WeChat, such a
powerful thing,” Ma said. Alibaba’s options to compete include
“mergers and acquisitions, hiring more people,” he said.  Ma is focusing on strategy as chairman of Alibaba after
naming Jonathan Lu to replace him in May as chief executive
officer. The billionaire said in June the company could sell
shares in an initial public offering within five years, and the
2012 buyback of a stake held by  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  valued the e-
commerce business at about $35 billion.  The Hangzhou, China-based company’s units include Taobao, a
cross between Amazon.com Inc. and  EBay Inc. (EBAY) , with more than 500
million registered users. It’s one of the 20 most-visited
websites in the world, according to the company.  Alibaba’s Tmall, a business-to-consumer portal, sold $3.1
billion worth of goods in one day during a Nov. 11 promotion,
and Microsoft Corp. said yesterday it would open an outlet on
the site. Ma said his company accounted for 5 percent of China’s
retail market last year.  ‘Golden Age’  “What we want to do is to change China,” Ma said. “The
next five years are the golden age for e-commerce.”  China has more online shoppers than the U.S., and the value
of its online retail transactions is projected to double to 2.57
trillion  yuan  ($411 billion) by 2015 from an estimated 1.22
trillion yuan last year, according to Analysys International, a
Beijing-based researcher.  China had 564 million Internet users at the end of last
year, up 10 percent from the year before, according to the
government-run China Internet Network Information Center. That
is greater than the population of any country except  India .  China is projected to have an expansion of 8.1 percent this
year, up from 7.8 percent last year, according to the Bloomberg
Contributor Composite.  Potential IPO  “If they list, it will be the largest IPO this year,”
Eric Qiu, an analyst at Guosen Securities Co. in Hong Kong, said
of Alibaba. “Their market capitalization could be larger than
Tencent and Baidu combined.”  Tencent, China’s largest Internet company, is valued at
about $63 billion, while Baidu Inc., owner of China’s largest
search engine, has a  market value  of more than $29 billion.  Alibaba’s net income increased 81 percent to $484.5 million
in 2012, Yahoo said in a March 1 filing. Sales jumped 74 percent
to $4.08 billion.  When asked about Alibaba’s profit from e-commerce, Ma
responded, “Don’t worry about us, we are making money. When we
IPO, you will know the numbers.”  The 48-year-old Ma, a former English teacher who has led
Alibaba since its formation in 1999, has a net worth of $3.4
billion, according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index .  Ma and 17 others founded Alibaba as an online marketplace
for Chinese companies. The business grew as economic
liberalization spurred a boom in manufacturing and trade. It has
expanded its workforce to more than 24,000 and added services
including cloud computing, online payment and consumer auctions.  CEO Transition  Lu, who has been with Alibaba since 2000, will take over as
CEO on May 10. He is the only senior executive with experience
overseeing all of its major divisions after taking over the
Taobao online shopping platform in 2010, building its south
China sales team and starting its Alipay online payments
business.  After helping establish Alipay and running Taobao, Lu has
the right background to run Alibaba, said Jim Tang, an analyst
at Shenyin Wanguo Securities Co. in  Shanghai .  “Still, the most important person is going to remain Jack
Ma,” Tang said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lulu Yilun Chen in Hong Kong at 
 ychen447@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  