-- American Hotel Leads IPOs Beating Hudson’s Bay
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-03-20T13:09:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/american-hotel-leads-ipos-beating-hudson-s-bay.html
Real estate investment trusts
yielding as much as 5.5 percent, led by  American Hotel Income
Properties REIT (HOT-U) , are forecast to continue outperforming Canadian
initial public offerings such as  Hudson’s Bay Co. (HBC)  and  Ivanplats
Ltd. (IVP)   American Hotel is  Canada ’s best performing IPO above C$80
million ($78 million) in the 12 months through yesterday,
gaining 8.4 percent since its Toronto Stock Exchange debut last
month, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  HealthLease
Properties REIT (HLP-U) , which began trading June 20, is second best,
rising 8.1 percent, while  Dundee Industrial REIT (DIR-U) , the third-best
performer, has gained 7.6 percent since its Oct. 4 trading
debut.  “In an environment of low economic growth and low  interest
rates , investments like REITs continue to look attractive
because of the yield, the moderate visible growth that you get
out of these vehicles, and the valuations,” said Michael Missaghie, a portfolio manager at Sentry Investments Inc. in
Toronto, which manages about C$9 billion. “Across those three
things, REITs will continue to look attractive.”  Initial offerings of Canadian REITs are outperforming IPOs
in other industries as demand surges from retail investors for
high-yield securities. REITs are companies that invest in
income-producing real estate and pay out most of their income to
investors through unit distributions.  Hudson’s Bay  Hudson’s Bay, the 342-year-old retailer, is Canada’s worst
performing IPO in the past year, losing 13 percent since selling
C$365 million in new shares in November. The sale was led by
Royal Bank of Canada, Bank of Montreal, Canadian Imperial Bank
of Commerce and Bank of America Merrill Lynch. Tiffany Bourre, a
spokeswoman, declined to comment on the performance.  Crius Energy Trust (KWH-U) , which owns a stake in U.S. energy
retailer Crius Energy LLC, is the second-worst, falling 9.4
percent since it started trading on Nov. 13. Michael Fallquist,
Crius Energy Trust CEO, didn’t immediately return a call seeking
comment.  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) , Royal Bank and UBS AG led the
sale.  Ivanplats, a mining company founded by billionaire Robert Friedland, ranks third worst, dropping 8.8 percent since raising
C$300.8 million in October. The Vancouver-based firm, which is
developing copper projects in  Africa , has fallen since its Oct.
17 trading debut as the price of copper futures in  New York 
dropped 9.4 percent. Bob Williamson, a spokesman for the firm,
declined to comment. Bank of Montreal led a group of banks
managing the sale including Morgan Stanley, Macquarie Group Ltd.
and Royal Bank.  Double TSX  The  S&P/TSX Capped REIT Index (SPRTRE)  has risen 7.2 percent in the
past 12 months, outpacing the 2.4 percent return of Canada’s
benchmark Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index.  Dundee Industrial, based in Toronto, has a 12-month
dividend yield of 2.6 percent. HealthLease has a 5.5 percent
yield, the highest among the REIT IPOs and almost double the 3
percent yield of Canada’s benchmark index. Hudson’s Bay has a
yield of 0.63 percent while Ivanplats does not pay dividends.  Dundee Industrial’s IPO was led by  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) ,
while HealthLease’s sale was led by Canaccord Financial Inc. and
 National Bank of Canada. (NA)  Michael Cooper, chairman of Dundee
Industrial, and Adlai Chester, HealthLease’s chief financial
officer, didn’t return telephone calls seeking comment.  Seeking Yield  “There has been more success for the REITs in the last
eight to 12 months,” said Dean Braunsteiner, IPO services
leader in Toronto for PwC Canada, a member of
PricewaterhouseCoopers International Ltd. “Part of the reason
is investors are really looking for yield, a return, and that’s
the attraction.”  Canadian REITs raised almost $500 million in seven IPOs
last year, more than any other industry in Canada, Bloomberg
data show. Canadian companies have raised $482 million in 13
IPOs in the past 12 months, with 92 percent of that from three
REIT sales.  One such sale was American Hotel, which boosted its IPO
size by 16 percent to C$87 million on investor demand. Chief
Executive Officer Robert O’Neill said he he met 55 institutional
investors during a two-week roadshow, including eight meetings
in Toronto on the last day, during a Feb. 8 blizzard.  “We had about C$270 million of orders,” O’Neill said in a
telephone interview. “The support that we have bodes well for
future financings, as long as I can bring deals of equal or
better quality to the market.”  Railroad Workers  American Hotel, which bought 32 hotels that offer lodging
for railroad workers, was led by Canaccord and National Bank.
Milestone Apartments REIT, based in Toronto, sold C$200 million
in units in February, a month after Agellan Commercial REIT
raised C$134.6 million in its IPO. Bank of Montreal and CIBC led
both sales.  Other IPOs are in the works, including a C$105 million sale
of Inovalis REIT, which will invest in European office
properties, and WPT Industrial REIT, which seeks to raise money
to buy industrial sites and office properties in the U.S. from
Welsh Property Trust LLC.  Loblaw Cos. (L) , Canada’s largest grocery chain, also plans to
create a REIT in the second quarter. The Brampton, Ontario-based
company said in a Dec. 6 statement that it will contribute about
35 million square feet of real estate with a current value of
more than C$7 billion into the sale, and it intends to retain a
“significant” majority interest.  PwC’s Braunsteiner said he doesn’t anticipate waning
interest in REIT IPOs any time soon, though investors will
eventually have their limits.  “There’s only so many retail dollars out there, so you
want to be early out of the gate in terms of getting some
interest,” Braunsteiner said. “At some point there probably is
a crest and it starts to come down again, but I don’t think
we’re near that yet.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  