-- American Realty Offers to Buy Cole REIT for $5.7 Billion
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2013-03-20T20:25:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/american-realty-offers-to-buy-cole-credit-for-5-7-billion.html
American Realty Capital Properties
Inc. (ARCP)  offered to buy Cole Credit Property Trust III Inc. for at
least $5.7 billion, seeking to create the one of largest real
estate investment trusts that leases space to single tenants.  American Realty bid $12 in cash or 0.80 of its common stock
for each Cole Credit share, according to a statement today. The
offer is valued at more than $9 billion including assumed debt,
American Realty said.  Cole Credit, a Phoenix-based nontraded REIT that owns more
than 900 mostly single-tenant office, retail and industrial
properties, agreed earlier this month to buy Cole Holdings, the
company that sponsors it, with plans to go public after the
merger. American Realty’s offer is better for Cole Credit’s
shareholders, Nicholas Schorsch, American Realty’s chief
executive officer, said in a letter to Cole Credit’s board.  “Our proposal will provide a higher level of consideration
delivered sooner and with greater certainty,” he wrote. The
company first communicated interest in a potential deal before
the Cole Holdings acquisition was announced, and didn’t receive
any response, he said.  Eric Waters, a Cole Credit spokesman, said he had no
immediate comment. A call to John Bacon, a Cole Holdings
spokesman, wasn’t returned.  Share Gain  American Realty Capital Properties, formed in December
2010, owns freestanding buildings with tenants such as  Dollar
General Corp. (DG)  and Citizens Bank. The company surged in size
after its  acquisition  last month of American Realty Capital
Trust III Inc. made it the owner of almost 700 properties in 44
states. The deal was valued at about $2.2 billion, Schorsch said
on a Dec. 17 conference call, according to a transcript filed
with regulators. Both companies had been managed by affiliates
of American Realty Capital, a New York-based investment firm
with a focus on nontraded REITs.  American Realty Capital Properties  gained  5.2 percent today
to $14.66, the highest since shares began trading in September
2011. A purchase of Cole would create a combined company with
1,706 properties and more than 400 tenants, the REIT said.  Cole Credit is an attractive target because many of its
properties were acquired in 2010 or 2011, close to the bottom of
the real estate market, said Dan Fasulo, managing director at
Real Capital Analytics Inc., a New York-based research firm that
tracks commercial real estate sales.  ‘Locked-Up Value’  “That says to me there’s a lot of locked-up value in that
portfolio,” he said.  Nonlisted REITs such as Cole Credit are illiquid
investments typically marketed to individual investors by
brokers. They have a designated lifespan in which they must give
shareholders the opportunity to get their money back, often
through mergers or listing on exchanges.  Cole Credit holders will have immediate liquidity, with the
ability to sell their shares without a lockup period, Schorsch
said in the letter to Cole’s board. He doesn’t expect the deal
to require regulatory approval, while the Cole Holdings plan
must be affirmed by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority,
he said.  The offer is at least 20 percent more than the original
Cole Credit offering price to investors in the REIT of $10 a
share, Schorsch said.  Cole Credit Property Trust II Inc., another nonlisted owner
of primarily single-tenant properties, agreed in January to
acquire  Spirit Realty Capital Inc. (SRC)  through a reverse merger in a
deal valued at about $3.6 billion. The new company will take
Spirit’s name and keep its management.  Schorsch said in an interview that he expected Cole Credit
executives to be “congenial” in response to the offer. His
proposal is fully funded and backed by Barclays Plc, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in  New York  at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  