-- Tamil Party Rules Out Reversing Move to Quit Singh Coalition
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l   a n d   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 2013-03-20T06:01:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/tamil-party-rules-out-reversal-of-move-to-quit-singh-government.html
The former largest ally of Indian
Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  ruled out reconciliation after it
quit the coalition over policy toward alleged war atrocities in
Sri Lanka, increasing the government’s fragility as it seeks to
boost a slowing economy.  The  Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam , which had earlier vowed to
withdraw its support to Singh’s administration, late yesterday
formally notified President  Pranab Mukherjee  of its decision to
leave. The move means Singh is now as many as 44 seats short of
the halfway mark in the lower house of parliament and more
reliant on fickle regional parties outside the ruling alliance
to win the passage of legislation.  “There is no question of us reconsidering our decision,”
said T.K.S. Elangovan, spokesman of the DMK and a lawmaker in
 India ’s parliament. “We have no choice but to withdraw, people
are agitating, students are on streets and the government of
India is not coming to the rescue of the people.”  Singh is battling to refocus the government ahead of an
election in 2014, end two years of criticism over alleged
corruption and repair a slowing economy.  India’s economy ,  Asia ’s
third-largest, will expand at 5 percent this financial year, the
slowest in a decade, hurt by cooling investment and a drop in
exports.  Bills to extend opportunities for foreign investment in the
pension and insurance industries are among those the government
wants to pass. The benchmark S&P BSE Sensex fell 0.5 percent in
Mumbai at 11:29 a.m. today, after dropping 1.5 percent
yesterday. The rupee weakened 0.01 percent.  UN Resolution  The standoff in India comes as the United Nations Human
Rights Council prepares to vote this week on a U.S.-sponsored
resolution calling on Sri Lanka to fully investigate alleged  war
crimes  by its troops during the final weeks of the conflict with
Tamil guerrillas in 2009.  Muthuvel Karunanidhi, DMK chief, is demanding India bring
amendments to toughen the resolution to be presented in Geneva,
and hold a vote in parliament to condemn  Sri Lanka . Finance
Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram said in a press conference
today that the government was discussing both issues. The
government will continue to pursue its legislative agenda to
bolster the economy, he said.  The DMK is looking to reassert itself in its southern
stronghold of Tamil Nadu after being routed by its main rival in
2011 elections to the regional assembly. Tamil Nadu shares
cultural and religious ties with Sri Lankan Tamils.  Tamil Champion  “Karunanidhi was finding it very difficult to occupy the
platform as the champion of Tamils,” said Cho Ramaswamy, a
political analyst and the editor of the  Tamil magazine , Thuglaq.
After winning power, J. Jayalalitha, the chief
minister of  Tamil Nadu , has emerged as the leading proponent of
the Tamil cause, he said. “Karunanidhi wants his crown back.”  A letter written by Karunanidhi withdrawing support of its
lawmakers to the coalition was handed to the president
yesterday, said party leader T.R. Baalu. DMK ministers will meet
Singh today to submit their resignations, Elangovan said.  In an effort to heal the rift with the DMK, Congress leader
Sonia Gandhi yesterday backed an independent probe into the
“unspeakable atrocities” committed against civilians during
Sri Lanka’s 26-year civil war. Using some of the strongest
language by an Indian leader, she said that Tamils in Sri Lanka
continue to be denied legitimate political rights.  “The plight of Tamils in Sri Lanka is very close to our
hearts,” Gandhi said. Her husband the former Indian Prime
Minister  Rajiv Gandhi  was assassinated by a Tamil Tiger suicide
bomber in 1991 as the group fought for a separate homeland in
northern and eastern provinces of neighboring Sri Lanka.  Mayawati Support  Sri Lanka’s military and Tamil Tiger fighters probably
committed serious violations of international law in the final
stages of their conflict, resulting in as many as 40,000
civilian deaths, a UN report released in April 2011 said.  Gandhi had dispatched her top three ministers, including
Chidambaram and Defense Minister A.K. Antony, to talk with
Karunanidhi in Chennai on March 18.  The DMK, which has 18 lawmakers in parliament’s lower house
was one of nine coalition partners in the governing alliance.
Without its support, Singh will be further reliant on the
backing of groups like the Samajwadi Party and Mayawati’s
Bahujan Samaj Party, which compete for power in the country’s
most populous state,  Uttar Pradesh .  Mayawati speaking to reporters yesterday reiterated her
support for the government. Parliamentary Affairs Minister Kamal Nath said today that Singh’s administration was “absolutely
stable.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew MacAskill in  New Delhi  at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net ;
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  