-- Anadarko, Partners Rise on Gulf of Mexico Oil Find: Dallas Mover
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2013-03-20T20:12:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/anadarko-partners-rise-on-gulf-of-mexico-oil-find-dallas-mover.html
Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  climbed
the most in eight months after announcing a U.S. Gulf of Mexico
oil discovery that may produce more than half a billion barrels
of crude.  Anadarko rose 3.7 percent to $86.40 at the close in New
York, the biggest increase since July 3. Andarko’s partners in
the  Shenandoah-2  deep-water well also gained, with  Cobalt
International Energy Inc. (CIE)  climbing 8.1 percent, ConocoPhillips
up 1.9 percent and  Marathon Oil Corp. (MRO)  up 1.9 percent.  The well, drilled to almost 6 miles (9.6 kilometers)
beneath the seafloor in water 5,800 feet deep, encountered oil
deposits more than 1,000 feet thick, The Woodlands, Texas-based
Anadarko said in a statement yesterday.  “The size of the discovery could be one of the largest in
the Gulf of Mexico,”  Scott Hanold , a Minneapolis-based analyst
for RBC Capital Markets LLC, wrote yesterday in a note to
clients.  The field may produce 700 million barrels of oil, more than
twice a previous estimate, said John Malone, a New York-based
analyst for Global Hunter Securities LLC. Robert Morris, a New
York-based analyst for Citigroup Inc., put the range at 500
million barrels to 1 billion.  The discovery adds $3 a share to Anadarko’s value, Brian Lively, an analyst for Tudor, Pickering, Holt & Co., wrote today
in a note to clients. Lively, who rates Anadarko a buy,
estimated about 750 million barrels may be recoverable from the
deposit.  Anadarko operates the well and owns 30 percent.
 ConocoPhillips (COP)  also owns 30 percent and Cobalt owns 20 percent.
Marathon and closely held Venari Resources LLC each own 10
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  