-- Deutsche Avoids Losses as Gold Lender Plunges
-- B y   A n t o   A n t o n y   a n d   B h u m a   S h r i v a s t a v a
-- 2013-03-21T10:36:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/manappuram-finance-poised-for-biggest-two-day-plunge-in-a-decade.html
Indian units of Deutsche Asset
Management and  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  are among investors who avoided
losses by dumping stakes in  Manappuram Finance Ltd. (MGFL)  before the
lender this week plunged 31 percent.  The finance company, which accepts gold as collateral, had
its  biggest  two-day drop since May 2003, after it told one
brokerage on March 18 about a potential loss, citing a slide in
the prices of the yellow metal. It informed a wider community of
investors the following day. The company made a detailed
exchange filing after trading hours yesterday. Deutsche Asset
sold all the 1.25 million shares it owned in the company as of
Feb. 28, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  The uneven disclosure of information prompted a unit of
Banco  Espirito Santo  SA,  Portugal ’s biggest publicly traded
bank, to lower Manappuram’s corporate governance rating to the
lowest level and  recommended  investors to sell the stock. Bank
of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch unit slashed the price target
by 58 percent yesterday. The Indian lender said declining gold
prices may trigger an increase in defaults and forecast a 500
million rupee ($9.2 million) loss in the quarter.  “Corporate governance is a bigger concern for the stock,
as it will be very difficult to believe in the management,”
Nidhesh Jain, a Mumbai-based analyst with Espirito Santo
Securities Ltd. said in an e-mail response. Manappuram had
earlier given different explanation about a decline in yields on
loans and profitability in the third-quarter to disparate market
participants, Jain said.  The lender dropped 0.4 percent to 23.85 rupees in Mumbai
today. Rival  Muthoot Finance Ltd. (MUTH)  advanced 2.2 percent. The
benchmark  S&P BSE Sensex (SENSEX)  fell 0.5 percent.  Rated Red  Manappuram is the second company to be rated red on the
disclosure score by Espirito Santo among the 34 finance firms
and banks it tracks in India.  The company first spoke to Ambit Capital Pvt. seeking help
in “guiding the market about fourth-quarter results and future
outlook,” Manappuram said in a filing to exchanges yesterday.
“The statement that the company has selectively shared some
information with some investors is false and baseless.”  V. P. Nandakumar, managing director and chief executive
officer of Thrissur, India-based Manappuram, didn’t answer four
calls made to his mobile phone today. Managing Director I. Unnikrishnan didn’t respond to three calls on his mobile phone.  DSP BlackRock Investment Managers Pvt. sold 158,168 shares,
data as of Feb. 28 show. Goldman Sachs Asset Management dumped
Manappuram in November, the data show.  Linus Chettiar, a spokesman for Deutsche Bank AG in Mumbai,
said the company won’t comment on why its asset management unit
sold Manappuram’s shares. Arun Rajendran, a spokesman for DSP
BlackRock, did not answer a call to his mobile phone.  ‘Show of Hand’  The asset management unit of Swedish bank  Skandinaviska
Enskilda Banken AB (SEBA)  bought 1.1 million shares of Manappuram,
according to a Dec. 31 filing. DNB Asset Management AS purchased
500,000 shares last month, the data show.  In August, the company passed a special resolution by “a
show of hand” to change its Articles of Association, according
to exchange filings. Institutional Investor Advisory, a proxy
adviser, had asked investors to reject the amendment that gave
four investors the right to veto proposals in shareholder
meetings and decide whether the founders could sell their stake.  “There is an expectation from a listed company that its
information dissemination would be more even-handed,” Amit Tandon, managing director of Institutional Investor Advisory,
said in an interview. “One of the problems with the mid-caps is
that sometimes they are closer to one set of investors.”  Collateral Value  The company, which had outstanding  gold loans  of more than
100 billion rupees as of Dec. 31, may lose part of the interest
due on it because a drop in prices of the yellow metal has
reduced the value of the collateral, the company said in an
analyst conference call on March 19.  The security for loans amounting to 15 billion rupees
disbursed in the three months to December 2011, may not be
adequate to cover the interest accrued on it due to a high loan
to value ratio, it said in the exchange filing.  “Everyone knew that there are significant slippages in the
gold loan business but 15 percent of disbursements turning bad
has alarmed investors,” said Espirito Santo’s Jain.  In March last year,  India ’s central bank asked non-bank
finance companies to cap loans at 60 percent of the value of the
gold kept as collateral. Before the rule, Manappuram was lending
as much as 85 percent of the value of the gold, according to
Ambit Capital.  Gold Price  “Fundraising for lending is anyway constrained for these
gold loan companies,” Vibha Batra, New Delhi-based senior vice
president at ICRA Ratings Ltd. said by phone. “If the asset
quality also declines, then there is a negative equity
sentiment, which might make incremental funding harder.”  Gold in India has dropped 3.4 percent this year. Prices of
the metal have increased every year since 2005. Prices may
decline another 2 percent, according to Bhargav Vaidya, director
of B.N. Vaidya & Associates, a Mumbai-based gold traders
advisory.  Manappuram’s “guidance has been inconsistent and the risk
to future earnings is high,” Veekesh Gandhi and Rajeev Varma,
analysts at Bank of America said in their note to clients
yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anto Antony in Mumbai at 
 aantony1@bloomberg.net ;
Bhuma Shrivastava in Mumbai at 
 bshrivastav1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  