-- Hank Greenberg; Baseball to God; Ewing’s Perfect Game
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   S h r i b m a n
-- 2013-03-20T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/hank-greenberg-baseball-to-god-ewing-s-perfect-books.html
Hank Greenberg was the son of
Romanian Jews who spoke Yiddish at home. As a Detroit Tiger, he
was dropped into a state whose industry was controlled by one
anti-Semite (Henry Ford) and whose airwaves were poisoned by
another (Father Charles Coughlin).  He hit 58 home runs in 1938, 331 overall, and finished with
a career batting average of .313.  John Rosengren calls his new biography “ Hank Greenberg:
The Hero of Heroes ” (New American Library, $26.95). Baseball
fans remember Greenberg as a path breaker much like Jackie Robinson, whose entry into the majors he celebrated.  His life was a complicated one -- he worked for Ford during
the off-season, for example -- and he labored under the burden
of being a symbol, all the more so after a nationwide
contretemps over whether an accomplished athlete with flat feet
should serve in the armed services. (He was inducted exactly
seven months before Pearl Harbor.)  It didn’t hurt that he stood 6’4” and twice was the
American League’s most valuable player.  “Hank became the face -- and muscles -- of Judaism in
America,” Rosengren writes.  Rosengren’s book is an evocative portrait of  Detroit , and
baseball, in the 1930s and 1940s, but it’s also a portrait of
how the Jewish people and baseball interacted: “He had begun to
change the way Jews thought about baseball and the way baseball
fans -- Americans -- thought about Jews.”  Road to God  For more than a decade, New York University President John Sexton has been teaching a course called “ Baseball as a Road to
God .” Now Sexton, who as a boy listened to the seventh game of
the 1955 World Series while clutching a 12-inch crucifix -- yes,
he was a Brooklyn Dodgers fan -- has taken the elements of his
course and transformed them into a book by the same name
(Gotham, $27.50; written with Thomas Oliphant and Peter J.
Schwartz).  He begins by telling us that the nation’s pastime is “a
road to God” but not “the road for everyone.” Whew! What a
relief.  This book is hinged on what he calls “the interplay of
faith and doubt” -- that’s interplay, not inter-league play --
and he’s right that both baseball and religion are rooted in
that eternal struggle. He argues, moreover, that baseball is
beyond reason, perhaps diminished by reason:  False Idols  “The most important elements of baseball cannot be
measured. Some of them simply are immeasurable. And the numbers
can miss the essence of the matter; the facts can become false
idols, obscuring truth in horrible reductionism.”  Some of this is a little forced: Phrases like “our trinity
of stories” and an account of the 1914 “Miracle” Braves
followed by this sentence: “In religion, miracles also play an
important role.” But the book is redeemed (oops -- there we go
again!) by passages like this:  “Baseball calls us to live slow and notice. This alone may
be enough -- if it causes some to perceive the world differently
and more intensely.”  Perfect Game  Two classic coaches. Two East Coast basketball powers. Two
Catholic colleges. One Patrick Ewing (because there is only one
Patrick Ewing). A national-championship game. A legend is born.  Now that legend -- Villanova’s 1985 upset over Georgetown,
before the second-largest television audience ever to watch a
basketball game -- is enshrined between hard covers, in Frank
Fitzpatrick’s “ The Perfect Game ” (Dunne/St. Martin’s, $25.99).  There really was something perfect in it -- the way
Villanova made 90 percent of its shots in the second half, the
way the two teams played in the last college game before a shot
clock was instituted, the way the game was, as Fitzpatrick puts
it, “a perfect little microcosm of the 1980s.”  Today that stunning game (and the two coaches, the
redoubtable John Thompson and the doubtable Rollie Massimino)
seem like a magnetic match-up -- and a memory from another time,
far, far away:  “Watch the game now, all these years later,” Fitzpatrick
writes, “and once you get past the players’ laughably brief
shorts, the cheerleaders’ swollen hair, and the lack of 21st-
century clutter on the fuzzy CBS image, it’s impossible to miss
its magic.” The world has changed, but this game shimmers
still.  (David M. Shribman is executive editor of the Pittsburgh
Post-Gazette. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Ryan Sutton  and  Richard Vines  on
dining.  To contact the writer of this column:
David M. Shribman at  dshribman@post-gazette.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 