-- Arabica’s Allure Returning for Roasters After Rout: Commodities
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-03-20T20:42:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/arabica-s-allure-returning-for-roasters-after-rout-commodities.html
Coffee roasters are poised to add
more arabica beans to their blends at the expense of robusta as
the two varieties’ relative cost narrows to a four-year low.  The  gap  between futures declined to 35.4 cents yesterday
from $1.89 in May 2011. The switch takes several months and
probably will start if the spread stays at 35 cents, said
 Rodrigo Costa , director of trading at Caturra Coffee Corp. in
Elmsford,  New York . Arabica will average $1.57 in the fourth
quarter, 18 percent more than now, as robusta drops 3.6 percent
to $2,075 a metric ton (94 cents a pound), the medians of as
many as six analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg show.  Robusta’s market share advanced to 46 percent last season,
the most since at least 2006-2007, Macquarie Group Ltd.
estimates. Shrinking economies drove demand for cheaper blends
and arabica rose to the costliest in 14 years in 2011 after
 Colombia , the second-biggest arabica grower, reaped its smallest
harvest in more than three decades. Robusta gained 12 percent
this year as drought threatens the next crop in  Vietnam , the
largest robusta shipper, as arabica dropped 7.1 percent on
prospects for rebounding supply.  “What happened to coffee blends in the past two years,
with more robusta usage, was a direct result of high arabica
prices and lower  consumer spending ,” said Costa. “It’s much
simpler to switch to arabica than to robusta because it’s a
higher-quality product.”  Agriculture Index  Arabica fell to $1.336 a pound this year on ICE Futures
U.S. in New York, after plunging 37 percent in 2012. Robusta
advanced to $2,152 on NYSE Liffe in  London , after adding 6.3
percent last year. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Agriculture  Index (MXWD) 
of eight commodities was up 0.3 percent this year, and the MSCI
All-Country World Index of equities advanced 5.8 percent.
Treasuries lost 0.4 percent, a Bank of America Corp. index
shows.  A 35-cent spread in futures would imply price parity in
some physical markets, according to Costa. Some lower-grade
arabica is cheaper than locally-produced robusta in  Brazil ,
according to Winterthur, Switzerland-based Volcafe.  Consumption of arabica will climb 3 percent in 2013-14,
after being stable this season and sliding 5 percent a year
earlier, according to Volcafe, a unit of ED&F Man Holdings Ltd.
Robusta demand will gain 3 percent, from 6 percent this season
and 15 percent a year earlier.  Arabica is grown mostly in  Latin America  and favored for
specialty drinks, while robusta comes mainly from  Asia  and parts
of  Africa  and is used in instant coffee and espresso. Roasters
use both beans in some blends.  Maxwell House  The slump in arabica is helping consumers, with J.M.
Smucker Co. and  Kraft Foods Inc. (KRFT)  cutting U.S. prices by 6
percent last month on their Folgers and Maxwell House brands.
Global retail coffee sales will be a record $79.6 billion in
2013, from $75.8 billion last year, according to Euromonitor
International, a consumer research company in London.  Production of all varieties of coffee will rise 6.4 percent
to a record 144.6 million bags in the season that started Oct.
1, according to the  International Coffee Organization  in London.
Arabica will account for 88.8 million bags, or 61 percent of the
total, the ICO estimates. A bag of coffee weighs 132 pounds.  Just as the switch to a higher ratio of robusta in blends
took two years to develop, so the reverse is likely to take more
than one season. The premium, which closed today at 36 cents,
will need to stay at 35 cents to 40 cents for one or two
quarters before roasters make significant changes to blends,
said Costa of Caturra Coffee.  Fungal Disease  Demand for robusta will be partly sustained by preferences
in emerging markets including Brazil and  Russia , where buyers
tend to favor instant coffee or cheaper blends that contain more
robusta, according to Mauricio Galindo, the head of operations
at the ICO, which has about 70 member nations. Consumption in
 emerging markets  grew an average of 3.9 percent a year in the
past decade, compared with 1.1 percent in developed nations, ICO
data show.  The anticipated rebound in arabica supply is threatened by
the spread of leaf rust in Central America and  Mexico . The
fungal disease is present on about 70 percent of farms in
 Guatemala  and the nation needs $100 million to fight it,
according to Ricardo Villanueva, president of the ICO’s private
sector committee. Slumping prices curbed growers’ funds to limit
the impact of the outbreak, ICO Executive Director Roberio Silva
told reporters in London on March 8.  Robusta output is also threatened and greater-than-expected
damage from drought may curb the retreat in prices anticipated
in the Bloomberg survey. The harvest in Vietnam may plunge as
much as 30 percent to an eight-year low in 2013-14 because of a
lack of rain in the main growing regions, according to the
median of eight trader and shipper estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  Buying Decisions  Faster global growth should boost demand for arabica, said
Andrea Illy, chief executive officer of Illycaffe SpA, which
sells coffee in 140 countries. The  International Monetary Fund 
expects the world economy to expand 3.5 percent this year, from
3.2 percent in 2012. The U.S., the biggest coffee consumer, will
accelerate from the third quarter and in each of the following
three quarters, according to estimates from as many as 84
economists compiled by Bloomberg.  “When you have economic crisis, all the roasters tend to
trade down the bulk of their production,” Illy said an
interview in London. “When you have better economic conditions
and better prices of coffee, roasters tend to go back and
increase the arabica percentage in their blends.”  Brazil Harvest  Brazil will harvest 47 million to 48 million bags in 2013,
a record for a year in which trees enter the lower-yielding half
of a two-year cycle, according to Cooparaiso, a growers’
cooperative. Colombian output will expand 30 percent to 10
million bags this year, according to the National Federation of
Coffee Growers.  At a time of rising Colombian supply, “certainly roasters
would consider to some degree going back to using arabica in
their blends,” said Galindo of the ICO. “I have a hard time
imagining that if the supply of fine arabicas was there to a
greater extent, there wouldn’t be demand.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  