-- Arena Joins Vivus Finding Obesity Drugs Fizzle on Costs
-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2013-03-20T20:15:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/arena-joins-vivus-finding-obesity-drugs-fizzle-on-costs.html
Doctors cheered last year when the
U.S. gave its first approvals for drugs to combat obesity in
more than a decade. Eight months later, the two treatments have
yet to catch on with consumers or investors.  New prescriptions of  Vivus Inc.’s (VVUS)  Qsymia, on the market
since September, have declined 22 percent since peaking on Feb.
8, a drop that analysts say may be caused by high patient costs.
That’s led investors to bet that shares of San Diego-based  Arena
Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ARNA)  won’t climb when its drug, called Belviq,
goes on sale in the U.S. later this year.  Qsymia and Belviq are the first medicines cleared since
1999 in the U.S. to fight obesity, a global health threat that
can lead to chronic illnesses including diabetes and heart
disease. While the condition has doubled in the U.S. since 1980,
with a third of the population now considered overweight,
investors are shying away from Vivus and Arena because they see
the drugs’ high costs and lack of marketing to general
practitioners hurting sales.  “There are a lot of obese people in this country, but the
drugs are not getting the uptake that people originally thought
they would,”  Andrew Berens , an analyst with Bloomberg
Industries, said in a telephone interview. “The overall market
has proven to have more hurdles than everyone expected.”  Those obstacles include sales forces that are marketing to
specialists instead of the family doctors who tend to write most
prescriptions, as well as safety concerns, Berens said. Price
may be the biggest hurdle, as the drugs could cost patients as
much as $200 per month. It’s unclear how much of that would be
covered by insurance.  ‘Reimbursement Key’  When Qsymia debuted, insurance companies agreed to cover
about one-third of its cost. The initial reimbursement news
caused Vivus shares to rise in the first weeks the drug was on
the market. Yet since  reaching  $22.86 on Oct. 12, the  Mountain
View , California-based company has fallen 53 percent through
yesterday on disappointing sales of the medicine. The shares
rose less than 1 percent to $10.81 at the close in  New York .  “Nobody is willing to pay the full price of this out of
pocket,” Marko Kozul, a Leerink Swann & Co. analyst in San
Francisco, said in an interview. “That’s why reimbursement is
key and that’s why reimbursement news this year should be
considered a major driver.”  Short Selling  Short sales against Arena have risen this year, reaching 21
percent of  shares  outstanding as of March 8, the most since
March 2011, according to London-based financial information
services firm Markit. In a short sale, traders sell borrowed
stock assuming the price will drop, enabling them to profit by
buying it back at a lower price.  To be sure, the market for the obesity pills may expand at
a faster pace once Arena is advertising and marketing its drug,
Berens said. Also,  Orexigen Therapeutics Inc. (OREX) , based in  La
Jolla ,  California , is developing a weight-loss therapy called
Contrave, which could help raise public demand if that drug
reaches the market, Berens said.  “I think it’s a mistake to judge Arena and the whole
obesity space on how six months of Qsymia sales have gone,”
Simos Simeonidis, an analyst with Cowen & Co. in New York, said
in an interview.  Still, the drugs may have a tough road ahead. While Belviq
was approved in the U.S. in June, a month before Qsymia was
cleared, the medicine won’t be available until the U.S. Drug
Enforcement Administration classifies its ability to be abused,
a decision that may come in April.  “We continue to see few signs that the early launch of
Belviq will avoid the problems Vivus is currently
experiencing,” Cory Kasimov, a JPMorgan Chase & Co. analyst,
wrote in a note to clients on March 4. “In fact, Belviq could
well experience a more lackluster launch vs. Qsymia given the
drug’s higher price and more modest level of efficacy.”  Belviq’s Price  Belviq will cost $199.50 for a month’s supply, or about
$6.65 a day, Arena said in a February filing. That’s 48 percent
more than Qsymia for a less-effective medicine, Kasimov said.  Arena shares rose 5.3 percent to $7.90. The stock had
 declined  34 percent from when Belviq was approved June 27
through yesterday as investors grew concerned about the drug’s
prospects in light of Qsymia’s slow sales.  More than 78 million U.S. adults are obese, according to
the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta. About
500 million people worldwide are obese, as levels doubled in
every region from 1980 to 2008, according to a World Health
Organization report last year. In addition to raising health
risks that also include stroke, obesity costs the  U.S. economy 
an estimated $147 billion a year in medical expenses and lost
productivity, according to the CDC.  Eisai Deployment  Belviq will be marketed in  North America  by Tokyo-based
 Eisai Co. (4523) , which has deployed 200 sales representatives to
promote the therapy once it gets clearance from regulators.
Another 50 specialists are working to persuade insurers to
reimburse patients for the treatment, Arena said during an
earnings call on March 4.  Investors shouldn’t compare the two companies, said Craig Audet, Arena’s senior vice president of operations, in an
interview.  “People overestimate the way these drugs are going to take
off,” Audet said. “They think they’re going to go like
gangbusters right out of the gate, I don’t think that that’s
what’s going to happen.”  He stressed that Eisai isn’t targeting patients looking for
a “quick fix,” rather the companies are seeking people
committed to a lifestyle change with the medicine to improve
their health.  Low Expectations  “This is not something where you see instantaneous
results,” said Stephen Brozak, president of WBB Securities in
Clark,  New Jersey , in a telephone interview. “Patients are not
going to be coming in and pushing for it. This has to be done in
combination with clinicians. So whenever that’s the case, it’s
always better to keep your expectations lower.”  While the drugs are meant to help patients reduce the risk
of chronic conditions often spurred by obesity, keeping those
expectations in check may prove challenging, said Berens.  “The payers, rather than looking at it as preventative
medicine, are looking at it as cosmetic,” he said.  Arena’s pill works in a similar way to fenfluramine, part
of the fen-phen appetite-suppression drug combination pulled
from the market in 1997 when it was linked to heart valve
abnormalities. Belviq also is indicated for overweight people
who have at least one coexisting condition such as high  blood
pressure  or Type 2 diabetes, Arena said in an e-mailed
statement.  Arena’s drug, previously called lorcaserin, and Vivus’s
Qsymia were approved last year after being rejected by the FDA
in 2010. Regulators said at the time that lorcaserin raised
cancer concerns and Qsymia may have been tied to  birth defects 
and heart risks.  Different Drugs  Arena’s treatment affects an area of the brain that helps a
person eat less and feel full after consuming small amounts of
food, according to the  FDA . Qsymia from Vivus is a combination
of the appetite suppressant phentermine and the anti-seizure
drug topiramate.  Patients who tested Arena’s pill in three studies lost
about 3 percent more of their body weight than those who took a
placebo, FDA staff said in a May 8 report. People who took part
in trials on Vivus’s Qsymia lost 6.7 percent and 8.9 percent
more of their body weight on mid and high doses compared with
those who used a placebo, FDA staff said last year in a report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  