-- As Republicans Hail Hayek, Their Plans Advance Friedman
-- B y   A n g u s   B u r g i n
-- 2013-03-20T16:34:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/as-republicans-hail-hayek-their-plans-advance-friedman.html
Friedrich Hayek’s book “The Road to
Serfdom” has served as a beacon for American conservatives since
its publication in 1944. Today’s Republicans often cite the book
in their fight to limit federal power and regulation. Hayek’s
views, however, were more complicated than they often assume.  As a shy and scholarly scion of an aristocratic Austrian
family, Hayek hadn’t expected to find much of an audience for
his wartime tract on political economy. He was shocked when
opponents of the New Deal propelled it up the U.S. best-seller
lists shortly after its release, and would have been equally
astonished at its rise up the Amazon.com sales rankings
following an endorsement from the former Fox News host  Glenn Beck  in 2010.  As he undertook an American lecture tour in 1944, Hayek
expressed frustration that many of his most ardent acolytes
seemed not to have read the book. Although “The Road to Serfdom”
expressed deep anxieties about central planning, it was also
explicit about the positive role that government could play.
“Probably nothing has done so much harm to the liberal cause,”
Hayek wrote, as a “wooden insistence” on “laissez-faire.”  Hayek was quick to point out a number of areas where
regulations might be beneficial, including the restriction of
excessive working hours, the maintenance of sanitary conditions
and the control of poisonous substances. And he argued that the
price system became “ineffective” when property owners weren’t
charged for the damages they caused; hence the need to regulate
deforestation, farming, and the smoke and noise produced by
factories. “In such instances,” he wrote, “we must find some
substitute for the regulation by the price mechanism.”  ‘Social Action’  Hayek’s views were shared by many economists at the time.
Frank Knight, of the  University of Chicago , provided a classic
statement of the justification for regulation in his essay “The
Ethics of Competition”: “In a developed social order hardly any
‘free exchange’ between individuals is devoid of either good or
bad results for outsiders,” he wrote. He argued that “social
action” was necessary to promote exchanges that diffuse benefits
and suppress exchanges that diffuse evils that aren’t reflected
in market prices.  Economists such as Knight and Hayek worried deeply about
the erosion of free markets, but saw their chief antagonist as
“central planning” rather than “regulation.” Central planning,
as Hayek explained it, involved “direction of all economic
activity according to a single plan, laying down how the
resources of society should be ‘consciously directed’ to serve
particular ends in a definite way.”  Much of the contemporary animus against excessive
regulation more closely resembles ideas first brought into
general circulation by  Milton Friedman . Where Hayek perceived a
host of areas that might be improved by regulation, Friedman saw
almost none.  In the 1960s, although very few among even his closest
allies shared such views, Friedman advocated for the abolition
of almost every regulatory arm of the federal government. He
argued that the agencies with famous abbreviations -- the ICC,
FCC, FDA -- should all be shuttered to grant greater discretion
to consumers, whose actions Friedman viewed as the most reliable
record of public opinion. If doctors and dentists would be
allowed to practice without licensing requirements, he said, the
cost of care would plunge, yielding benefits that far outweighed
any dangers that uncertified practitioners might pose. (If one
proved inept with a drill, Friedman reasoned, consumer
preferences would soon take that into account.)  Friedman’s Adherents  In today’s conservative movement, Friedman’s ideas echo
more loudly than his name. Republican Representative  Paul Ryan ,
who assails government interference in the health care and
financial industries in his latest  budget proposal ,  is said to 
hand out copies of “The Road to Serfdom” to his staff. His
arguments, however, show little of Hayek’s openness to robust
regulatory structures or “a comprehensive system of social
insurance.” Like many conservative politicians today, Ryan often
cites Hayek as the major influence on his economic thought while
advocating positions that align more closely with Friedman.  Near the end of his life, Friedman acknowledged that his
views had become more popular, but emphasized that their
influence on public policy had been limited. He and his wife,
Rose, wrote in a shared autobiography that they may have been on
the “winning side” of the war of ideas, but still found
themselves on the “losing side” in regard to practice. Like many
Republicans today, they concluded that their criticisms of
 government regulation  had been remarkably effective at garnering
adherents and attention, but less successful at generating the
social changes they sought.  ( Angus Burgin  is an assistant professor of history at  Johns
Hopkins University  and the author of “The Great Persuasion:
Reinventing Free Markets since the Depression.” The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this post: Angus Burgin at
 burgin@jhu.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this post: Timothy Lavin
at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 