-- European Stocks Rise With Euro, Spain Bonds, Commodities
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   P r a t i s h   N a r a y a n a n
-- 2013-03-20T11:15:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/asian-stocks-slide-with-euro-after-cyprus-rejects-deposit-levy.html
European stocks gained for the
first time in four days, the euro strengthened while Italian and
Spanish bonds rose as policy makers weighed bailout options for
Cyprus. Chinese shares jumped the most in two months and
commodities rebounded.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  added 0.2 percent at 7:10 a.m.
in New York, and Standard & Poor’s 500 Index futures increased
0.3 percent. The euro appreciated against 14 of its 16 major
peers and  Italy ’s 10-year bond  yield  fell eight basis points to
4.65 percent. The  Shanghai  Composite Index climbed 2.7 percent
and the yuan advanced to a 19-year high. South Korean stocks
slid in the last minute of trading after a possible cyberattack
shut down some computer networks. Brent crude gained 0.6 percent
and copper rose 1 percent.  Luxembourg’s Luc Frieden called for his fellow euro-area
finance ministers to reconvene “as soon as possible” on a new
package for Cyprus after lawmakers rejected a bank deposit levy
that would have helped fund a bailout. The Federal Reserve will
probably say today it will keep buying bonds to stimulate the
U.S. economy until the fourth quarter, according to analysts
in a Bloomberg survey.  Cyprus “has some symbolism impact on  Europe , but it’s not
a really major economic issue,” Laurence D. Fink, the chief
executive officer of BlackRock Inc., the world’s largest asset
manager with about $3.8 trillion in assets, said in a Bloomberg
Television interview in Hong Kong today. “It does remind us of
the frailty of Europe. It does remind us that the European fix
will be multiple years.”  Banks Rally  Three shares climbed for every two that fell in the Stoxx
600, helping it rebound from the longest losing streak in a
month. National Bank of Greece SA and Italy’s Banca Popolare di
Milano Scarl led a rally in banks, advancing more than 5
percent. Metro AG dropped 2.5 percent as  Germany ’s biggest
retailer  forecast  a decline in operating profit.  The gain in S&P 500 futures indicated the U.S. equities
gauge will snap a three-day, 1 percent decline.  Adobe Systems
Inc. (ADBE)  climbed 5.4 percent in pre-market New York trading after
the software maker reported fiscal first-quarter sales and
profit that exceeded analysts’ estimates. The yield on 10-year
Treasuries rose three basis points to 1.93 percent. The Dollar
Index slid 0.2 percent, snapping a two-day gain.  The yield on Spain’s 10-year note declined four basis
points to 5 percent. German bonds dropped for the first time in
five days on reduced demand for Europe’s safest fixed-income
assets. The 10-year bund yield rose two basis points to 1.36
percent after falling to 1.34 percent yesterday, the lowest
since Jan. 2.  Euro Gains  The euro advanced 0.5 percent versus the yen. It snapped a
two-day drop against the dollar to trade 0.3 percent higher at
$1.2914.  The pound gained against the dollar, reversing earlier
declines, after minutes of the Bank of England’s policy meeting
this month showed Governor Mervyn King was defeated for a second
month in a vote to expand stimulus. Chancellor of the Exchequer
George Osborne delivers his annual budget today. Sterling rose
0.2 percent to $1.5125, after losing as much as 0.5 percent.  The S&P GSCI gauge of 24 commodities advanced 0.5 percent,
the first gain this week. Brent rose to $108.05 a barrel. Copper
led metals higher in London. Wheat jumped 1.2 percent.  The  MSCI Emerging Market Index (MXEF)  added 0.1 percent, snapping
a seven-day slump, the longest losing streak in four months.  Stocks rallied in Shanghai after Tom DeMark, the founder of
Market Studies LLC, said the gauge will rebound this week to
resume a rally from a December low that will leave it 48 percent
higher within the next six months. DeMark correctly predicted a
retreat in the Chinese domestic stock gauge last month.  Lew Visit  The  yuan  gained 0.1 percent to 6.2121 versus the dollar,
after touching 6.2120, the strongest level since the government
unified the official and market rates at the end of 1993. The
People’s Bank of  China  set the currency’s reference rate at the
strongest level since Jan. 15 amid U.S. Treasury Secretary Jacob
L. Lew’s visit to Beijing for talks.  The Kospi Index declined 1 percent to the lowest in more
than a month. South Korea is investigating the simultaneous
shutdown of computer networks at several major broadcasters and
banks. The won weakened 0.5 percent after the government said it
will consider steps to curb capital flows if needed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in  London  at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Pratish Narayanan in Mumbai at 
 pnarayanan9@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Justin Carrigan at 
 jcarrigan@bloomberg.net ; 