-- Most Asian Stocks Drop on Cyprus; China Shares Advance
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2013-03-20T10:44:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/asian-stocks-fall-a-third-day-as-cyprus-rejects-bank-levy.html
Most Asian  stocks  declined amid
concern that Cyprus’s rejection of a bailout plan shows  Europe 
will struggle to contain its debt crisis. The losses were
limited as Chinese shares rallied ahead of report that may show
manufacturing expanded this month.  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , the world’s largest maker of
mobile phones that gets about 19 percent of sales from Europe,
slipped 1 percent. Fortescue Metals Group Ltd., Australia’s
third-biggest iron ore producer, slipped 2.3 percent after
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said yesterday that global demand for
the metal will slow.  Guangzhou R&F Properties (2777)  Co. jumped 7.6
percent in Hong Kong after the homebuilder in the Southern
Chinese city posted full-year earnings that beat analyst
estimates.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Excluding Japan Index dropped 0.1
percent to 467.62 as of 6:43 p.m. in Hong Kong, having earlier
fallen as much as 0.5 percent. About four shares fell for every
three that rose on the gauge. The measure has fallen 2.8 percent
this month through yesterday as  China ’s efforts to rein in
property prices and restructure its economy added to concern
that Europe mightn’t be able to contain its debt crisis.  “The market has been spooked by what’s happening in Cyprus
and concerns about China,” said Khiem Do, Hong Kong-based head
of Asian multi-asset strategy at Baring Asset Management Ltd.,
which oversees about $51 billion. “I don’t think the selldown
on Cyprus issue is overdone. They’re playing a hard bargain and
that somehow makes investors nervous.”  The  MSCI Asia Pacific excluding Japan Index (MXAPJ)  is heading for
its first decline in six months after Cyprus rejected rejected
an unprecedented levy on bank deposits needed to fund a bailout
and on concern China will introduce more property curbs after
home prices posted the broadest advance since December 2011.  ‘Great Opportunity’  The measure traded at 12.3 times  estimated earnings 
yesterday compared with 14 for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
and a multiple of 12.7 for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “It’s a great opportunity for anybody who has been left
behind by the stock market rally,” Giles Keating, head of
research for private banking and asset management at Credit
Suisse Group AG, told Bloomberg Television from Hong Kong today.  South Korea’s Kospi Index declined 1 percent, while
 Taiwan ’s Taiex Index fell 0.5 percent.  Australia ’s S&P/ASX 200
Index slid 0.4 percent as mining shares retreated. Japanese
markets were closed today for a holiday.  India ’s S&P BSE Sensex dropped 0.6 percent, extending
losses for a fourth day, heading for its longest losing streak
in five week, amid concern the withdrawal of the government’s
biggest partner from the ruling alliance may jeopardize economic
reforms.  Hong Kong, Shanghai  Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index rose 1 percent with volumes
about equal to the 30-day intraday average. The measure fell 2.7
percent this year through yesterday, making it the worst-
performing index outside  Italy .  The Hang Seng may climb to 50,000 by the end of 2015 as
global central banks maintain loose monetary policies and as
China’s economy grows, Morgan Stanley global strategist Jonathan Garner wrote in a report yesterday.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  rose 2.7 percent, the most
since Jan. 14. The Chinese gauge will resume a rally after
reaching a 2013 low this week, according Tom DeMark, the founder
of Market Studies LLC.  Manufacturing in the world’s second-largest economy
expanded this month, forecasts show ahead of the release of a
preliminary HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics manufacturing
index tomorrow.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index added 0.4
percent today. The S&P 500 dropped 0.2 percent yesterday,
sending the gauge to its longest slump of the year, on concern
problems in Cyprus could reignite Europe’s debt crisis. The
Federal Open Market Committee will conclude a two-day policy
meeting today.  Cyprus Bailout  Cyprus is the fifth euro-zone country to seek a bailout
since 2010 to avoid a collapse of its financial system. Its
parliament yesterday rejected an unprecedented levy on bank
deposits, dealing a blow to a proposed bailout.  Companies that do business in Europe fell. Samsung slid 1
percent to 1.46 million won in  Seoul .  LG Display Co. (034220) , the
largest maker of flat panels that gets, sank 3.9 percent to
31,200 won. Yue Yuen Industrial Holdings Ltd., a supplier of
shoes to Nike Inc. and Adidas AG, dropped 1.8 percent to
HK$24.60.  A gauge of raw materials posted the biggest decline among
the 10  industry groups  in the MSCI Asia Pacific excluding Japan
Index. Goldman Sachs cut its estimate for iron-ore price this
year on expectations demand will moderate.  Fortescue slipped 2.3 percent to A$3.80.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ,
the world’s biggest mining company. dropped 2.7 percent to
A$33.62 in Sydney. Rio Tinto Group, the world’s second-largest
iron ore exporter, lost 2 percent to A$57.48.  Chinese Developers  Guangzhou R&F Properties climbed 7.6 percent to HK$12.20 as
it reported full-year net income of 5.5 billion  yuan  ($885
million), which exceeded the 4.89 billion average estimate by
three analysts  Country Garden Holdings Co. (2007) , a Chinese developer controlled
by billionaire Yang Huiyan, surged 9.4 percent to HK$3.95.
Brokerages including BNP Paribas and Kim Eng Holdings Ltd.
raised their ratings on the stock to buy after the company
posted earnings that beat analyst estimates.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  