-- Asia-Pacific Credit-Default Swap Indexes Roll Into New Series
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   P u r v i s
-- 2013-03-20T01:42:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/asia-pacific-credit-default-swap-indexes-roll-into-new-series.html
The latest series of Markit Group
Ltd.’s indexes measuring the cost of insuring Asia-Pacific debt
with credit-default swaps started trading today.  The Series 19 Markit iTraxx Australia index was at 120.5
basis points as of 11:33 a.m. in Sydney, according to National
Australia Bank Ltd. prices. That compares with a closing price
of 105.3 basis points for the previous series yesterday,
according to data provider CMA. Series 18 was at 107.5 basis
points today, according to NAB.  The latest version of the Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40
investment-grade borrowers outside  Japan  was at 121.5 basis
points as of 8:40 a.m. in  Hong Kong , Australia & New Zealand
Banking Group Ltd. prices show. The previous series closed at
103.4 basis points yesterday, according to CMA, which is owned
by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market. Series 18 was at 106 basis points
today, according to ANZ prices.  The new Markit iTraxx Japan series will begin trading
tomorrow following a public holiday today in the country.  Fresh versions of the benchmarks are created every six
months when companies are added or dropped depending on their
ratings, cost of protection and ease of trading. The maturity
date of the new indexes is June 2018, compared with December
2017 on the Series 18 versions.  Default swaps on  Goodman Group , SP AusNet and Asciano Ltd.
were added to the Australian index, while AMP Ltd., Crown Ltd.
and Jemena Ltd. were dropped, according to information on
Markit’s  website . There were no changes to the constituents of
the Asian gauge.  Contracts on Ricoh Co. and Sumitomo Chemical Co. were added
to the Japan series, with Sharp Corp. and Mitsui & Co. removed,
Markit said.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for protecting
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
 credit quality . A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Purvis in Sydney at 
 bpurvis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  