-- Hatzius Says Cyprus Stalemate Isn’t Having Major Impact on U.S.
-- B y   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2013-03-20T16:40:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/hatzius-says-cyprus-stalemate-isn-t-having-major-impact-on-u-s-.html
Turmoil in  Europe  over plans to
resolve Cyprus’s financial crisis is not having a major impact
on the U.S. economy, said  Jan Hatzius , chief economist at
Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  “Most of the turmoil from Europe to the U.S. gets
transmitted, not so much through the trade side, but really
through financial conditions,” Hatzius said, speaking on
Bloomberg Television’s “Market Makers” with  Erik Schatzker  and
Sara Eisen. “At this point, I wouldn’t say that what’s going on
in Cyprus and Europe more broadly over the last few weeks has a
major impact on what we would expect to happen for the U.S.
economy or the broader global economy.”  Hatzius estimated that the U.S. economy will grow at “just
under” 3 percent in the first quarter and slow to 2 percent for
the next two quarters.  “We think growth is going to be pretty slow for the next
couple of quarters,” he said, blaming sluggishness partly on
across-the-board federal spending cuts that took hold March 1.
“Part of that is the sequestration.”  Still, economic expansion will pick up toward the end of
2013 and into 2014, Hatzius said, and the Federal Reserve will
stop its most recent round of large-scale bond buying sometime
next year.  Current Pace  “Our expectation is that they will continue to buy
basically at the current pace through the remainder of this
year, then scale down starting at the end of 2013 and then end
QE in the course of 2014,” he said. “I don’t think we’re there
yet.”  The Federal Open Market Committee is debating how long to
continue $85 billion in monthly purchases of Treasuries and
mortgage bonds. The committee, which is concluding a two-day
meeting today in  Washington , has said it will keep the main
interest rate near zero as long as the jobless rate remains
above 6.5 percent and inflation isn’t projected to exceed 2.5
percent.  Policy makers haven’t set a definitive end date for the
securities buying, saying that it will continue until the labor
market improves “substantially.”  Unemployment is unlikely to drop much in 2013, Hatzius
said. The rate was 7.7 percent in February.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanna Smialek in Washington at 
 jsmialek1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  