-- Aurelius Sues Energy Future Unit Directors Over Loans
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 2013-03-21T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/aurelius-sues-energy-future-unit-directors-over-loans.html
Energy Future Holdings Corp.’s
directors and chief executive officer were sued by hedge fund
Aurelius Capital Management over claims that loans made within
the power producer harmed creditors.  Texas  Competitive Electric Holdings Co., a unit of Energy
Future, is owed more than $725 million in additional interest
after making loans to the parent company for billions of dollars
over five years, Aurelius said in a complaint filed in federal
court in  Dallas .  “The loans did not reflect a fair transaction between the
companies: No unaffiliated third party would have extended such
loans,” Aurelius said in the March 19 complaint. Aurelius said
it owns secured loans and bonds of Texas Competitive, without
disclosing the amount it holds. It became a creditor in January
2011, according to the filing.  Energy Future, formerly known as TXU Corp., was taken over
in a $48 billion deal in 2007 led by private-equity firms  KKR &
Co. (KKR)  and TPG Capital. The buyout of Dallas-based Energy Future
was a bet that would have paid off had natural- gas prices 
increased. Instead, the prices, which set the cost of
electricity in the Texas market, have fallen about 71 percent
since July 2008.  Hedging Contracts  Hedging contracts that Energy Future sold to shield against
fluctuations in gas prices are expiring and will disappear
entirely by the end of 2014, which may worsen losses. Energy
Future lost $3.36 billion last year, a wider deficit than its
$1.91 billion shortfall in 2011, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg.  Texas Competitive’s $1.23 billion of 15 percent, second-
lien bonds due in April 2021 were unchanged yesterday at a price
of 25.5 cents on the dollar, according to Trace, the bond-price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.
Energy Future’s $2.18 billion of 10 percent first-lien bonds
maturing in December 2020 rose 0.13 cent on the dollar to 113.75
cents yesterday to yield 7.6 percent, according to Trace.  The power producer faces a “material restructuring”
within 12 months, Moody’s Investors Service said in a Feb. 26
note.  Auditor’s Report  Deloitte & Touche LLP , Energy Future’s independent auditor,
included a note in the company’s latest annual report
emphasizing its debt, interest payments and ability to tackle
about $3.8 billion of debt maturing at its Texas Competitive
unit in October 2014. The auditor said its unqualified opinion
that Energy Future’s finances are sound is “dependent upon the
completion of one or more actions” the company has said it may
pursue.  Those “transactions and initiatives” include debt
exchanges, recapitalizations, amendments and extensions of debt,
and debt-for-equity exchanges or conversions, according to
Energy Future’s financial statements in its annual report.  The power producer received consents from creditors to
extend the maturity date on more than $17 billion in loans in
April 2011, and this year lenders agreed to exchange $1.37
billion of bonds and to amend rules governing its securities as
Energy Future shifted liabilities to a subsidiary.  The cost to protect the debt of Energy Future through five-
year credit-default swaps increased to 29.2 percent upfront in
 New York , from 28.2 percent on March 19, according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by  McGraw-Hill Cos. (MHP)  and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.
Credit-default swaps typically rise as investor confidence
deteriorates and fall as it improves.  2011 Letter  Allan Koenig , an Energy Future spokesman, declined to
comment on the lawsuit. The company said in a 2011 letter to
Aurelius that the hedge fund’s claims were unfounded and accused
it of trying to manipulate the credit default swaps market to
its advantage.  In the lawsuit, Aurelius said Texas Competitive has been
insolvent since 2010. Defendants in the case include CEO  John Young  and directors of Energy Future and Texas Competitive.  Aurelius said in its complaint that the loans were made
from November 2007 to this January. The average amount
outstanding was $1 billion on a quarterly basis, according to
the complaint.  The market was paying yields two to four times higher than
what Texas Competitive was paid, Aurelius said. The interest was
at least $725 million less than what Energy Future would have
paid had the loans been made “for reasonably equivalent
value,” according to the filing.  In August 2011, the hedge fund asked the  International
Swaps and Derivatives Association  to determine whether Texas
Competitive was insolvent, which would trigger payouts on $1.2
billion of credit-default swaps linked to the utility provider’s
debt. The derivatives industry group ruled against Aurelius in
that case.  The case is Aurelius Capital Master Ltd. v. Acosta, 13-
cv-01173, U.S. District Court, Northern District of Texas
(Dallas).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ;
Beth Jinks in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  