-- Aussie, Kiwi Dollars Remain Lower After Cyprus Rejects Bank Levy
-- B y   K e v i n   B u c k l a n d
-- 2013-03-20T06:03:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/aussie-kiwi-dollars-remain-lower-after-cyprus-rejects-bank-levy.html
Australia ’s dollar remained lower
after its biggest drop in more than a week versus the greenback
after Cyprus’s parliament rejected a bank-deposit levy needed to
secure a bailout, sapping demand for high-yielding assets.  Government bonds in Australia and New Zealand rallied as
the impasse threatened to reignite the crisis in Europe,
boosting the allure of haven securities. The New Zealand dollar,
nicknamed the kiwi, fell against most major peers as the
government said the country’s most widespread drought in at
least 30 years reduces pressure to raise interest rates.  “The U.S. dollar is bid at the moment because of the
uncertainty in Europe, and that’s putting other currencies on
the back foot, including the Aussie and kiwi,” said Richard Grace, the Sydney-based chief foreign-exchange strategist and
head of international economics at Commonwealth Bank of
Australia. “The Cypriots have to go back to the drawing board.
The danger is they’re forced to implement these bank levies, and
the issue of a tax on deposits spreads to other areas of
 Europe .”  The Australian dollar was little changed at $1.0376 as of 5
p.m. in Sydney from yesterday, when it dropped 0.3 percent, the
biggest decline since March 8. It fell 0.1 percent to 98.63 yen.  The New Zealand dollar slid 0.4 percent to 82.16 U.S. cents
from yesterday, when it lost 0.3 percent. The kiwi dropped 0.5
percent to 78.08 yen.  ‘No’ Vote  Cypriot legislators in the capital Nicosia voted 36 against
with none in favor of the bank-deposit levy in a show of hands
yesterday. There were 19 abstentions.  Hammered out by euro-area finance chiefs over the weekend,
the unprecedented proposal had sought to raise 5.8 billion euros
($7.5 billion) by drawing funds from Cyprus bank accounts in
return for 10 billion euros in international aid.  The European Central Bank, whose Governing Council meets
today in  Frankfurt , will have to decide whether to give Cyprus
more time or consider cutting off liquidity to the country’s
banks.  Australia’s 10-year government bond yield dropped 4 basis
points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 3.51 percent, while the
rate for similar-dated New Zealand debt declined 4 basis points
to 3.66 percent.  New Zealand Finance Minister Bill English said in a
Bloomberg Television interview in Hong Kong that the drought
that has engulfed the entire North Island means a “bit less
pressure” for tighter policy.  Drought Impact  English said the dry weather will cost the economy about
NZ$2 billion ($1.7 billion) this year, and that recent rain
means a worst-case scenario has been averted.  Interest-rate swaps  data compiled by Bloomberg show traders
see a 13 percent chance the Reserve Bank of New Zealand will
raise its benchmark rate from a record low of 2.5 percent by the
Oct. 31 meeting. That compares to 53 percent odds a month ago.  New Zealand’s  current-account  deficit widened more than
economists predicted in the fourth quarter. It rose to 5 percent
of gross domestic product from 4.7 percent in the previous
period, the statistics bureau said today in Wellington. The
median forecast of economists was 4.9 percent in a survey by
Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Buckland in Tokyo at 
 kbuckland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  