-- Autism Diagnoses Rise Among U.S. Children, CDC Finds
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2013-03-20T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/autism-diagnoses-rise-among-u-s-children-cdc-finds.html
About 2 percent of American school
children were diagnosed with autism disorders in 2011 and 2012,
a 72 percent increase from the previous five years, according to
a report from the  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention .  The current statistics were compared with the CDC’s 2007
report that found 1.16 percent of children ages 6 to 17 were
diagnosed on the autism spectrum, according to their parents.
Most of the increase was due to more diagnoses of milder autism
disorders, the Atlanta-based agency said.  The current data show that 1 in 50 children have been
diagnosed with  autism or a related disorder , such as Asperger’s
syndrome. The conditions are characterized by difficulty with
communication, social functioning and by unusual responses to
sensory information.  “Changes in ascertainment of autism spectrum disorders
could occur because of changes in autism spectrum disorders
awareness among parents or health-care professionals, increased
access to diagnostic services, changes in how screening tests or
diagnostic criteria are used, or increased special education
placements in the community,” the authors wrote.  More than one-third of the children in the study were
diagnosed in or after 2008, some of whom were “well beyond”
the age when autism should be clearly noticeable. The biggest
increase was for boys and adolescents ages 14 to 17.  “Much of the prevalence increase from 2007 to 2011-2012
for school-aged children was the result of diagnoses of children
with previously unrecognized autism spectrum disorder,” the
report said.  Parent Reports  The parents’ reports of diagnoses weren’t substantiated
through clinical evaluation or medical records, the authors
wrote.  Mental health professionals have revised the standards for
diagnosing autism in the newest version of their guidelines, the
Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, which is
scheduled to be released next month. Among the changes was a
decision to collapse several conditions, including Asperger’s
syndrome and child disintegrative disorder, into a single autism
diagnosis.  Critics have said the elimination of Asperger’s as a unique
diagnosis could limit access to care for some high- functioning
people who previously may have been diagnosed with the syndrome.
A study presented in January at a medical
meeting suggested that as many as half of the high-functioning
patients who had been diagnosed under the previous standards may
be missed by the new ones.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  San Francisco  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  