-- Havas Plans to Stay Independent as Rivals Make Acquisitions
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2013-03-21T17:11:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/havas-plans-to-stay-independent-as-rivals-pursue-acquisitions.html
Havas SA (HAV)  Chief Executive Officer
David Jones said the French advertising company plans to remain
independent with Chairman Vincent Bollore’s backing, amid an
“obsession” by some competitors to make large acquisitions.  “The majority of times these big acquisitions are great
for the company being bought but not for the company buying or
the shareholders,” Jones said yesterday in an interview in
London, citing  Publicis Groupe SA (PUB) ’s 2007 purchase of online ad
agency Digitas Inc. for $1.3 billion. “If you look at Digitas
today versus Digitas when it was acquired, none of the key
management is in place and the company is doing far less well.”  Jones said he hasn’t seen any examples of acquisitions of
“real scale” where the company that did the buying is better
off three or four years later. Havas, known for its Evian
roller-baby commercials, spends 50 million euros ($65 million)
to 100 million euros a year on takeovers, he said.  Addressing reports that Havas may look to merge with a
competitor, Jones said its biggest shareholder, Bollore, is
committed to the company as a strategic investment and has
demonstrated his loyalty by installing his son, Yannick, as
deputy CEO, as well as by increasing his stake last year.  “There’s no strategic reason why Havas needs to be
bigger,” Jones said. “We have an advantage that we have a
large shareholder with a long-term view,” he said of Bollore.  Havas shares rose 0.3 percent to 4.84 euros in Paris,
taking the advance to 16 percent this year.  Earnings Announcement  Digitas remains a “vital, vibrant agency” working with
some of the world’s famous brands, Bob Lord, CEO of Publicis
Groupe digital technology division, said in an e-mail. Tony
Weisman, CEO of Digitas USA, has been with the company since
2006 and 2012 was a “record breaking award and net new business
year,” he said.  Net income in 2012 rose 5 percent to 126 million euros as
sales climbed 8 percent to 1.78 billion euros, Havas  said in a
statement today . Profit missed analysts’ 135.9 million-euro
average estimate, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Like its peers, Havas is continuing to focus on expansion
into digital advertising. The company next week plans to
announce the formation of Socialistic  China , a digital agency
focusing on Greater China headed by Brendan Tansey, the former
U.K. CEO of advertising agency Wunderman. The new agency is
based in Shanghai and clients already include Peugeot SA, Danone
SA and Hershey Co.  ‘Biggest Casualties’  The total value of announced acquisitions in the industry
exceeded $18 billion in the past 12 months, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Those deals included the 3.16 billion-
pound ($4.8 billion) purchase of Britain’s Aegis Group Plc by
 Dentsu Inc. (4324)  of  Japan .  WPP Plc (WPP) , the world’s largest advertising company, and
Publicis have spent hundreds of millions of pounds in recent
years on large advertising companies as well as smaller digital
advertising businesses and companies in developing markets.  “The biggest companies are usually the biggest casualties
in the long run,” Jones said, citing the example of bankrupt
photography company Eastman Kodak Co. “The big holding
companies are global and everywhere but they’ve become very
complex. The smaller end of town is by far more interesting.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in  London  at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net . 