-- BASF Loses Termite-Killer Patent Appeal Against Makhteshim
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2013-03-20T17:41:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/basf-loses-termite-killer-patent-appeal-against-makhteshim-1-.html
BASF SE (BAS) , the world’s biggest
chemical company, lost a U.S. appeals court bid to force
Makhteshim-Agan Industries Ltd. to stop selling a version of its
popular termite killer, a day after filing a new patent suit
against that competitor.  Makhteshim-Agan, the world’s largest maker of generic
agrochemicals, didn’t infringe two BASF patents, the U.S. Court
of Appeals for the Federal Circuit in Washington said today in
an  opinion  posted on its website.  The dispute is over a way of applying insecticides that use
the chemical fipronil in and around a building. The patents
cover Ludwigshafen, Germany-based BASF’s  Termidor , which has
been sold for more than a decade and is the top-selling termite
product in the U.S. BASF sued Makhteshim-Agan in 2010, after it
began selling its own version of the insecticide under the name
Taurus SC.  U.S. District Judge William Osteen in Greensboro, North
Carolina, was correct in finding the BASF patents covered a
specific way of applying fipronil, while Makhteshim-Agan used a
different application method, the three-judge Federal Circuit
panel ruled.  Anne Burt, a spokeswoman for BASF, said the company is
reviewing today’s decision.  New Lawsuit  BASF filed a new patent-infringement suit yesterday against
Makhteshim-Agan in federal court in  Georgia . It claims Taurus SC
is made using a manufacturing process covered by another patent.  “Intellectual property is the cornerstone of our
innovation-based marketplace,” Jan Buberl, director of
specialty products for BASF North American Crop Protection, said
in a statement. “Improper activity that undermines patent
protection laws is unfair to those who act properly and
lawfully.”  Fipronil is an insecticide also used in flea and tick
control products for pets. Makhteshim-Agan, based in Tel Aviv,
was bought in 2011 by China National Chemical Corp. and taken
private.  The case is BASF Agro B.V. Arnhem v. Makhteshim Agan of
North America,12-1206, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal
Circuit (Washington). The lower court case is BASF Agro B.V.
Arnhem v. Makhteshim Agan of North America,10-cv-00276, U.S.
District Court, Middle District of North Carolina.  The new case is BASF Agro B.V. Arnhem v. Makhteshim Agan of
North America, 13-867, U.S. District Court for the Northern
District of Georgia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in  Washington  at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  