-- BBC to Review Unprofitable Sale of Lonely Planet Division
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2013-03-20T09:42:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/bbc-to-review-unprofitable-sale-of-lonely-planet-division.html
The British Broadcasting Corp.’s
overseer is investigating why the company is selling the Lonely
Planet travel-guide publishing division at a loss of almost 80
million pounds ($120.7 million) to a U.S. billionaire.  BBC  Worldwide, the public broadcaster’s commercial arm,
said yesterday that it  agreed  to sell Lonely Planet to
Nashville, Tennessee-based NC2 Media for 51.5 million pounds,
after a year of reviewing strategic options for the Melbourne-
based publisher. The BBC paid 130.2 million pounds for Lonely
Planet over two investments in 2007 and 2011. NC2 Media, whose
primary shareholder is billionaire Brad Kelley, will take over
Lonely Planet on March 31, it said.  The BBC Trust, the London-based broadcaster’s governing
body, called the disposal a “significant financial loss” and
ordered a review of the investment, which in 2007 drew criticism
over whether the publicly-funded broadcaster should be spending
money on acquiring private book publishing.  “The trust’s strategy for Worldwide now is to focus on BBC
program content, and Worldwide would not make this sort of
acquisition again,” Diane Coyle, the trust’s vice chairman,
said in a  statement .  Coyle defended the Lonely Planet purchase, saying that at
the time, there was a “credible rationale for the deal.” The
review is intended to determine “lessons learnt,” she said.  Lonely Planet is the world’s most successful travel
publisher and has printed about 120 million books in 11
languages, according to the BBC. The company is the No. 1
travel-guide book brand in the U.S., Australia and the U.K.  The BBC said Lonely Planet’s financial performance was hurt
in recent years by a rising Australian dollar, consolidation of
the publishing industry and the worldwide recession.  “We acquired Lonely Planet in 2007 when both our strategy
and the market conditions were quite different,” Paul Dempsey,
interim chief executive officer at BBC Worldwide, said in a
statement, adding the company no longer fits with the BBC’s
strategy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  