-- Big-Project Binge Fueled Motor City’s Meltdown
-- B y   E d w a r d   G l a e s e r
-- 2013-03-20T22:30:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/big-project-binge-fueled-motor-city-s-meltdown.html
When I hear free-spending national
leaders call for more infrastructure investment, I think of
 Detroit ’s absurd People Mover monorail gliding above empty
streets. That’s unfair, I know. Yet the city’s epic tragedy,
which entered a new stage last week when Mayor Dave Bing lost
financial control, provides broader perspective on the potential
consequences of mixing economic distress with bad policy making.  Here are five somewhat contradictory lessons from the Motor
City’s sad history that relate to the larger national debate
about America’s future.  Lesson No. 1: Government can do good things. Long before
Ford’s Model T’s, Detroit -- the “Straits” -- rose as a great
inland port because of large-scale public investment. The
economic ecosystem of Great Lakes cities depended on the access
to the East Coast created by a farsighted public servant, DeWitt
Clinton, who used public funds to dig the Erie Canal.  Detroit’s early entrepreneurs, such as Hiram Walker (who
avoided  Michigan ’s puritanical streak by distilling his Canadian
Club Whiskey a few miles across the Canadian border), would
never have set up shop without water access to the Atlantic. In
the early 19th century, private financial markets weren’t
developed enough to finance a great canal.  Erie Canal  The antecedent of the Erie Canal doesn’t refute the People
Mover example, but the juxtaposition of the two projects as
bookends of Detroit’s history provides necessary nuance. Public
infrastructure investment can do much good and much harm. The
canal was valuable because it reduced transportation costs along
an important route. No new infrastructure today is likely to
reproduce that magic; it is much easier to get around the
country now than it was in 1820.  The canal’s success also reminds us that financing can
determine function. As Adam Smith emphasized 237 years ago,
investments such as the Erie Canal that are expected to cover
their full costs with user fees are more likely to deliver real
value. That lesson seems lost on the authors of the Senate’s
proposed  budget  for 2014, which offers $50 billion more for
transportation investment, in keeping with our unhealthy new
pattern of funding highways with general tax revenue.  The correct middle path between untrammeled spending and
parsimony is to favor robust outlays on projects developed by
public-private partnerships that will recoup their expenditures
with tolls rather than taxes.  Lesson No. 2: It takes a cluster. There was a dustup last
summer when President  Barack Obama  echoed Senator Elizabeth Warren’s statement that no one ever got rich on their own. The
political implication that they seemed to draw -- that the U.S.
needs more public spending -- wasn’t logical to me. Nonetheless,
the statement carries much truth. Henry Ford bestrides our
economic history like a colossus, but he was no solitary actor.  Ford was a protege of Thomas Edison and became deeply
embedded in Detroit’s cluster of automotive genius. The Dodge
Brothers, the Fisher Brothers, David Dunbar Buick, Ransom Olds
and William Durant (in nearby Flint) were some of the automotive
innovators connected throughout greater Detroit. These men
supplied each other with parts, financing and, above all, ideas.
Collectively, they created the affordable automobile: A
tremendous gift to America’s far-flung farmers and the nation’s
would-be commuters.  No decent idea has ever been created in a vacuum, and
Detroit, like Silicon Valley in the 1970s, reminds us that
America is great because our metropolitan areas have enabled the
collaborative competition of connected entrepreneurs.  Innovative Clusters  This doesn’t imply that local governments can magically
create innovative clusters or that we should just increase
public spending. But it does suggest that we all depend on the
genius of others. Investing intelligently in education,
particularly in math and science through charter schools,
increases the odds of empowering potential innovators. Opening
our borders to talented foreigners by increasing the size of the
H-1B visa program is an even easier way to strengthen the talent
pool.  Lesson No. 3: Manufacturing is an unreliable source of
employment. Detroit’s problems have often been associated with
the failures of the automobile industry, but that’s a mistaken
view. Detroit’s decline as a city began in the 1950s and ’60s,
which were golden years for the Big Three automakers. Its
downfall has more to do with the Big Three’s success than their
failures.  The industry followed a standard pattern. During an initial
phase, small manufacturing startups cluster in  cities , but as
they come to require larger factories, they move from the urban
core to sites such as River Rouge, Michigan. Ultimately,
corporate logistics enable production anywhere with fewer and
fewer workers. The Big Three are still alive after a  century 
(albeit with federal help), but their endurance doesn’t entail
much more employment in the Detroit area. Similarly, the U.S.’s
continued strength in manufacturing hasn’t done much to reduce
underemployment, because most manufacturing is so highly
capital-intensive.  Moreover, manufacturing’s success has a downside. Big
corporate structures can crowd out alternative entrepreneurial
activities. My  work  with Bill Kerr and Sari Pekkala Kerr showed
that cities that were endowed with valuable mines at the start
of the 20th century developed larger mining and manufacturing
companies but ended up with less entrepreneurship and growth at
the end of the century.  The Big Three sucked in talent and turned a former hub of
entrepreneurship into a place defined by large corporate
hierarchies.  Urban Renewal  Lesson No. 4: The government can also do foolish things.
As Detroit’s job dynamo sputtered, and cars enabled
suburbanization, both local and federal governments took action.
The federal government sponsored urban-renewal projects that
built new structures, often in declining areas that didn’t need
them, along with local public-transport projects, such as the
People Mover. Detroit’s longtime mayor, Coleman Young, favored
large-scale construction projects (another arena anyone?) and
industrial policy, such as using eminent domain, to create
 General Motors Co. (GM) ’s Hamtramck plant.  These policies relied on three errors. First, they followed
a Potemkin Village strategy that favored visible, physical
projects rather than building up the human capital that is the
real source of  urban success . Second, they accepted the magical
thinking that large-scale infrastructure projects will reinvent
a place, instead of evaluating each project with careful cost-
benefit analysis. Third, these policies assumed that the public
sector could figure out long-term job creation. The best policy
for local economic development is to attract and train smart
people and then get out of their way.  Lesson No. 5: The American dream can go terribly wrong and
we aren’t on a good path.  Detroit, like the rest of the country, can only come back
if the power of its human capital is unleashed. That can only
happen with better education, limited regulations and stricter
rule of law. To improve education, Detroit should follow New
Orleans and move toward a system that is primarily made up of
charter schools.  Bing should take a meat cleaver to the rules that make life
difficult for would-be entrepreneurs, such as  food-truck
operators . My colleagues at the Manhattan Institute are helping
Detroit to learn from New York’s safety success, and with luck
that will also  bear fruit .  The broadest lesson of Detroit is that simple-minded
nostrums calling for more or less government are foolish.
Government can be helpful --- and absolutely necessary when it
comes to helping the most vulnerable -- but also wasteful or
worse. To save Detroit, smart government must provide good
schools and safe streets, and eschew foolish infrastructure
spending and unnecessary regulations.  (Edward Glaeser, an economics professor at Harvard
University, is a Bloomberg View columnist. He is the author of
“Triumph of the City.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Edward Glaeser at  eglaeser@harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 