-- Biogen, HTC, Boston, MIT, Mary Bono: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-03-20T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/biogen-htc-boston-mit-mary-bono-intellectual-property.html
Biogen Idec Inc. (BIIB) , the fourth-
largest U.S. biotechnology company by market value, won a U.S.
patent that may guard its experimental multiple sclerosis pill
from generic competition for eight more years than anticipated.  The company’s patent 8,399,514, which expires in 2028, was
issued on an application filed in February 2012 by Weston,
Massachusetts-based Biogen, according to the U.S. Patent and
Trademark Office’s website. The Food and Drug Administration is
expected to decide whether to approve the medicine,  Tecfidera ,
by the end of the month.  The drug had been protected by three patents that expire
from October 2019 to May 2020, according to  Eric Schmidt , a New
York-based analyst with Cowen & Co. who estimates Tecfidera
could generate $3.2 billion in annual sales in 2017. The drug
was tested in doses given twice a day and three times a day, and
the patent today covers administration twice daily.  “They have a novel discovery here in that they were first
to observe that the lower dose of the drug, maybe somewhat
surprisingly, was as active as the high dose,” Schmidt said
yesterday in a telephone interview. “The burden of proof will
be on anyone else to show this patent isn’t valid.”  Biogen already sells the MS treatments Avonex, given by
injection, and Tysabri, administered intravenously. Tecfidera,
formerly known as BG-12, would be Biogen’s first pill for MS, a
disease that affects more than 2.1 million people globally,
according to the National Multiple Sclerosis Society.  “The patent for this dosing regimen is recognition of the
remarkable innovation Tecfidera represents for the MS
community,” Biogen Chief Executive Officer George Scangos said
in a statement. “The tremendous research investment required to
study and validate the patented dosing regimen is an example of
innovation that leads to meaningful benefits to patients.”  HTC Loses German Patent Suit Over Nokia Battery-Life Patent  HTC Corp. (2498)  lost a German lawsuit after a court said it
violated  Nokia Oyj (NOK)  patents for technology that helps save
battery life on mobile phones.  The Mannheim court yesterday ruled that it infringed the
German part of Nokia’s  European patent , HTC said in an e-mailed
statement. Taoyuan, Taiwan-based HTC said the patent is invalid
and it will appeal the decision.  Nokia last year sued HTC, BlackBerry and ViewSonic Corp. in
the U.S., U.K. and Germany over 45 patents. The Espoo, Finland-
based mobile-phone maker, struggling to reverse a sales slide,
settled with BlackBerry in December. A month earlier, HTC
reached a global patent settlement with Apple Inc.  “This decision cannot be described as a ‘win’ for Nokia
because it only applies to handsets that are no longer imported
into  Germany , and newer HTC handsets do not use the accused
technology,” HTC said. “As Nokia clearly went to great lengths
to assert its strongest patents first, we are confident that its
non-essential patent portfolio poses little threat to HTC.”  Nokia is “pleased with this decision, which confirms the
quality of Nokia’s patent portfolio,” Mark Durrant, a spokesman
for the company, said in an e-mailed statement. “HTC must now
respect our intellectual property and compete using its own
innovations.”  HTC said the power-saving technology in the disputed patent
is “trivial” and “contributes only a negligible reduction in
power consumption.”  The company said it will continue to pursue separate
lawsuits to invalidate the Nokia patents pending in German and
U.K. courts.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Minnesota Lawmakers Considering Ban on ‘Trademark Bullying’  The Minnesota legislature is considering a bill that would
bar so-called “trademark bullying.”  HF 1116  defines trademark bullying as “the practice of a
trademark holder using litigation tactics in an attempt to
enforce trademark rights beyond a reasonable interpretation of
the scope of the rights granted to the trademark holder.”  The measure provides for the awarding of attorney fees to
the prevailing party in exceptional cases. These would be cases
in which a party brings suit for “harassment, malicious,
fraudulent or willfully purposes, including trademark
bullying,”  If the bill passes and is signed into law, it will go into
effect Aug. 1 and will apply to actions arising from incidents
occurring on or after that date.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Rock Band Boston Song Publisher Sues Leader Over Copyrights  A publisher of hit songs by the 1970s rock band  Boston ,
including “ More Than a Feeling ” and “ Don’t Look Back ,” sued
the group’s leader and songwriter,  Tom Scholz , to prevent the
termination of his copyrights.  Paul Ahern, the plaintiff, said that Scholz assigned
copyrights to the songs he wrote in a 1975 agreement. He claimed
that in January Scholz said he planned to terminate those
rights, according to a filing yesterday in federal court in New
York.  The threat to end the copyrights “casts a pall on the
assets of the compositions, diminishes their value and
complicates the ability of plaintiffs Next Decade and Ahern to
commercially exploit them,” his lawyers said in the complaint.  Scholz, a graduate of the  Massachusetts  Institute of
Technology, said that the U.S. Copyright Act of 1976 grants him
the authority to terminate Ahern’s copyrights, according to the
suit. Those rights would end in 2015.  “Tom Scholz filed to reclaim his copyrights, as many
artists have done recently,” Craig Pinkus, his lawyer, said in
an e-mail. “The lawsuit from Mr. Ahern apparently seeks to
resolve those rights in court. Mr. Scholz is confident in his
legal position.”  Ahern, a  Florida  resident whose publishing firm is Pure
Songs, said he employed Scholz in 1975 to write the songs that
were included on Boston’s first two albums. He seeks a judicial
declaration that Scholz has no interest in the copyrights to
those songs and that the notice of termination is invalid.  Boston recorded its first albums for Epic Records, a unit
of  Sony Corp. (6758) ’s Sony Music Entertainment. The self-titled debut
album sold 17 million copies, according to the Recording
Industry Association of America, and the single “More Than a
Feeling” reached number five on the Billboard Hot 100. The
second album, “Don’t Look Back,” sold 7 million copies, the
RIAA reported, and the single peaked at number four.  The case is Ahern v. Scholz, 1:13-cv-01812, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  MIT Will Release Edited Documents Related to Aaron Swartz Case  The Massachusetts Institute of Technology said it would
release edited documents related to the school’s role in the
prosecution of Aaron Swartz, who killed himself while facing
charges that he broke into the university’s network to download
millions of research articles.  In a letter to the MIT community, President L. Rafael Reif
said the information wouldn’t include names or information about
MIT’s computer vulnerabilities. MIT must protect people from “a
pattern of harassment and personal threats,” he said.  MIT, which prides itself on a commitment to openness, and
the Justice Department have faced harsh attacks for their roles
in pursuing Swartz, considered a hero by many in the movement to
make information available for free.  “At MIT, we believe in openness, and we are not afraid to
re-examine our own actions,” Reif said. “Openness must be
balanced with reasonable concern for privacy and safety.”  MIT will release the documents when it issues a report by
Professor Hal Abelson on the events leading to Swartz’s suicide,
Reif said. Swartz, facing as long as 35 years in prison and a $1
million fine, hanged himself in his  Brooklyn , New York,
apartment on Jan. 11. He was 26.  On March 15, lawyers for Swartz’s estate filed a motion in
federal court in Boston asking that documents related to the
case against Swartz be released to the U.S. Congress and the
public. They are asking that the names and titles of all law
enforcement personnel and MIT employees in the documents also be
released.  In November 2011, a magistrate judge issued a protective
order barring disclosure of documents to anyone other than the
defense team or potential defense witnesses.  “Public interest in access to these materials in an
intelligible form outweighs the limited privacy interest in the
names and official titles of the individuals named therein,”
Swartz’s lawyers said in the March 15 motion.  The U.S. Attorney’s office in Boston has agreed to the
release of documents but seeks to keep private the names of law
enforcement people investigating the case and MIT employees,
according to the motion.  The case is U.S. v. Swartz, 11-cr-10260, U.S. District
Court, District of Massachusetts (Boston).  EBay Wins as High Court Backs ‘Gray Market’ Discount Goods  The U.S. Supreme Court ruled that publishers and
manufacturers can’t block imports of copyrighted items made and
sold abroad, bolstering the multibillion-dollar “gray market”
in a victory for EBay Inc. and discount chains.  The justices, voting 6-3, yesterday threw out a $600,000
jury award assessed against a graduate student who imported John
Wiley & Sons Inc.’s textbooks from his native  Thailand  and sold
them in the U.S. for a profit.  The case was one of the top business and consumer cases
pending at the court, with implications for sales by Costco
Wholesale Corp. and Wal-Mart Stores Inc. as well as on EBay,
operator of the world’s largest online marketplace.  The gray market is the annual trade in tens of billions of
dollars in genuine products outside of their official
distribution channels to exploit lower overseas prices.
Supporters of the gray market -- retailers, distributors and
consumer advocates -- were battling publishers and
manufacturers, which say their U.S. sales are being illegally
undercut.  Writing for the court, Justice Stephen Breyer said a ruling
in favor of Wiley would have subjected retailers to “the
disruptive impact of the threat of infringement suits.”  Imports of gray market products to the U.S. cost
manufacturers as much as $63 billion in sales a year, according
to a 2009 Deloitte LLP analysis conducted for Bloomberg.
American sales of copyrighted works, including books, music and
movies, amount to more than $220 billion a year, Breyer said
yesterday, citing retail industry estimates.  “The Supreme Court’s ruling is a victory for all American
consumers and businesses,” EBay said in an e-mailed statement.
“The decision protects your right to buy and sell authentic
goods, regardless of where they were made.”  The Association of American Publishers said the decision
undercuts a law designed to let U.S. copyright owners set
different prices around the world. The ruling “will discourage
the active export of U.S. copyrighted works,” Tom Allen, the
group’s chief executive officer, said in a statement.  Wiley’s chief executive officer, Stephen M. Smith, called
the ruling “a loss for the U.S. economy, and students and
authors in the U.S. and around the world.”  The Obama administration backed the copyright owners in
both cases.  Bloomberg Press is an imprint of Wiley.  The case is Kirtsaeng v. John Wiley & Sons, 11-697.
For more copyright news, click here.  IP Moves  Copyright Term Extension Act Sponsor Joins Lobbying Firm  Mary Bono Mack, the former Republican member of the U.S.
Congress who was one of the sponsors of the Copyright Term
Extension Act of 1998, has joined  FaegreBD Consulting , according
to a  statement  from the Washington-based consulting and lobbying
firm.  FaegreBD is a unit of Faegre Baker Daniels LLP, a
Minneapolis-based law firm.  She will be a senior vice president, focusing her advocacy
and consulting practice on matters related to the entertainment,
media and information-technology sectors. She is the widow of
the musician Sonny Bono, and is now married to former U.S.
Representative Connie Mack IV, a Republican from Florida.  Initially elected to Congress in 1998 after her husband was
killed in a skiing accident, she served until her defeat by
Democrat Paul Ruiz in the 2012 election. Under federal rules she
will be barred from lobbying for one year.  The copyright-extension bill she sponsored is sometimes
known as the “Sonny Bono Act,” extended the copyright term to
the life of the creator plus 70 years. The bill is also
nicknamed the “Mickey Mouse Act,” because of the extensive
support the  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  gave the legislation, which
ultimately prevented the early Mickey Mouse films from entering
the public domain.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland,  California , at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 