-- Bovespa Declines as Price Outlook Pushes Utilities Lower
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2013-03-20T21:11:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/bovespa-declines-as-price-outlook-pushes-utilities-lower.html
The  Bovespa index  sank to a two-
week low as  Cia. Energetica de Minas Gerais  led a plunge by
electric power companies on concern the Brazilian utility
regulator’s rates review may curb industry profits.  The  MSCI Brazil (MXBR) /Utilities index tumbled the most since
September in the worst performance among 10  industry groups .
 Light SA (LIGT3)  and  Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras SA (ELET6)  also dropped
after Brazil’s electricity regulator Aneel cut the preliminary
asset valuation used to estimate rate reviews for Cemig, as
Brazil’s second-biggest electricity company by market value is
known.  The Bovespa fell 0.6 percent to 56,030.03 at the close of
trading in Sao Paulo, the lowest since Mar. 5. Forty-five  stocks 
dropped on the gauge while 20 advanced. The real weakened 0.3
percent to 1.9899 per dollar.  “There’s speculation that the government will keep acting
to hold electricity rates as low as possible, and that’s pushing
stocks down,” Luis Gustavo Pereira, an analyst at Futura
Corretora in  Sao Paulo , said in a telephone interview. “And
it’s not just about the electric sector. It’s concern that other
sectors may be affected by the government’s interventions.”  Analysts at Banco Bradesco SA’s brokerage unit and Banco
BTG Pactual SA said in separate research notes that Aneel’s
decision signals that the regulator will limit the rates that
Cemig can charge. Shares sank 14 percent to 22.20 reais.  Cemig’s forecasts already include the impact of the rate
review, according to Luiz Fernando Rolla, the company’s chief
financial officer. Rolla called the market’s reaction
exaggerated in a teleconference today.  Growth Outlook  Light dropped 6.2 percent to 19.05 reais. Eletrobras, as
Centrais Eletricas is called, lost 4.3 percent to 11.48 reais.
Eletropaulo Metropolitana SA, the Brazilian unit of AES Corp.,
fell 4.2 percent to a record-low 10.60 reais.  While government intervention in the economy has driven
some investors away from Brazilian stocks, domestic consumption
will probably boost the recovery, which should be positive for
the  Bovespa (IBOV) , said Armando Senra, head of the Latin America and
Iberia region at BlackRock Inc. Gross domestic product expansion
slowed to 0.9 percent in 2012 from 2.8 percent in 2011, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  “We continue to be very positive about long term prospects
for Brazil,” Senra said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television today.  Oil company  OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA (OGXP3)  added 4.4
percent to 2.62 reais, following commodities higher. Mining
company  Vale SA (VALE5)  added 2 percent to 33.05 reais as  Australia , the
world’s biggest iron-ore exporter, raised its price estimate for
the steelmaking ingredient this year to $119 from $106 in
December, according to a report today from the Bureau of
Resources and Energy Economics.  Iron-Ore Prices  Vale is pricing in long term iron-ore price at $80 a ton,
Bank of America Corp.’s analysts including Felipe Hirai wrote in
a note to clients today. Ore delivered at the Tianjin port in
 China  fell 30 cents to $134.10 a ton, according to prices
compiled by The Steel Index Ltd.  The Bovespa has retreated 12 percent from this year’s high
on Jan. 3 amid concern accelerating inflation may curb Brazil’s
economic recovery and the government’s interventionist policies
will hurt profits in industries including utilities and energy.
The  MSCI BRIC Index (MXBRIC)  of shares in Brazil,  Russia ,  India  and China
has slid 5.9 percent over the same period.  Brazil’s benchmark equity gauge  trades  at 11.4 times
analysts’ earnings estimates for the next four quarters,
compared with 10.7 for the  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  of 21
developing nations’ equities, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Trading volume for stocks in Sao Paulo was 7.82 billion
reais today, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That compares with
a daily average of 7.67 billion reais this year through March
18, according to data compiled by the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  