-- Brazil Swap Rates Fall on Delayed-Tightening Outlook; Real Gains
-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2013-03-20T13:25:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/brazil-swap-rates-fall-on-delayed-tightening-outlook-real-gains.html
Brazilian swap rates dropped for a
fifth straight day after a newspaper report indicated that the
central bank will wait until May to lift borrowing costs from
record lows instead of an increase next month.  Swap rates on the contract due in January 2015 declined six
basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 8.47 percent at 10:21
a.m. in Sao Paulo. The real appreciated 0.1 percent to 1.9832
per  U.S. dollar .  Interest-rate increases will be decided by the central
bank, not the market, Folha de S. Paulo reported today, citing
unidentified government assistants. The central bank declined to
comment when reached by  Bloomberg News . Industrial confidence
dropped in March for the first time in four months, a report
showed. Swap rates fell even as global stocks rallied as
European policy makers weighed bailout options for Cyprus.  “The market may be adjusting to this news that the central
bank will only raise rates in May,”  Luciano Rostagno , the chief
strategist at Banco WestLB do Brasil SA in Sao Paulo, said in a
phone interview. “These factors are offsetting signs of
improvement abroad that could have pressured rates upward.”  Minutes of the central bank’s March 5-6 meeting published
last week indicated that an increase in the 7.25 percent target
lending rate wasn’t imminent as policy makers said “a cautious
management of monetary policy” was needed. The monetary policy
committee will next meet April 16-17 and May 28-29.  An index of industrial confidence fell 2.3 percent this
month to 104.2, according to a preview published today by the
Getulio Vargas Foundation in Rio de Janeiro.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabrielle Coppola in  Sao Paulo  at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  