-- California Teacher Fund Needs $4.5 Billion Yearly Boost
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2013-03-20T19:01:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/california-teacher-fund-needs-4-5-billion-yearly-boost.html
The  California  State Teachers’
Retirement System’s $73 billion unfunded liability may be the
state’s “most difficult fiscal challenge” and lawmakers should
increase funding for the second-largest U.S. pension, the
Legislative Analyst’s Office said.  Additional money from taxpayers, through higher
contributions from the state and school districts, along with
increases from employees probably will be needed, the analyst’s
office said today in a report. Investment returns aren’t likely
to be enough to close the gap, it said.  Pension costs for retired public employees are straining
governments from California to  Rhode Island . Calstrs, as the
$161.4 billion system is known, has 66 percent of the assets
needed to cover promises to current and future retirees, and
will run out of money by 2044 unless changes are made, the
analyst’s office said.  “Something needs to be done,” Ed Derman, the fund’s
deputy chief executive officer, told lawmakers today. He said
the unfunded liability grows $17 million a day.  Unlike the  California Public Employees’ Retirement System ,
the largest U.S. pension, Calstrs’ annual contributions from
teachers, school districts and the state are fixed and can only
change through legislation. Calpers, with a market value of $256
billion, can increase rates when investment returns lag behind
targets.  Contribution Levels  California now pays about 5 percent of teacher payroll, or
$1.5 billion, into Calstrs. School districts provide 8.25
percent of payroll, amounting to $2.2 billion, while teachers
and other employees surrender 8 percent of their pay, or $2.1
billion. The contribution rate has changed for employees since
1972, and for school districts in more than two decades.  The pension system said in February that it would need
teachers, school districts and the state to boost their
contributions by 15 percent combined annually to erase its
funding gap. The longer lawmakers wait to increase funding, the
more it will cost to erase the shortfall because the additional
money could have been invested to boost returns, the analyst’s
office said in the report.  The 15 percent increase would generate $4.5 billion more a
year for three decades to erase the gap. That would leave the
state spending more on teacher pensions than it does on its two
public university systems combined, the analyst’s office said.  The fund’s board last year lowered its assumed rate of
return on investments to 7.5 percent from 7.75 percent. The
change added $5.9 billion to the system’s funding gap. Losses
suffered in 2008 and 2009 added $12.7 billion to its shortfall.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  