-- Former Oil Executive Welby Enthroned as Anglican Leader
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2013-03-21T15:03:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/cameron-reaches-out-to-u-k-churches-after-gay-marriage-row.html
Justin Welby, a former oil-industry
executive, is being enthroned as Archbishop of Canterbury and
leader of the 85 million-strong Anglican communion.  The ceremony at Canterbury Cathedral, attended by Prince Charles and U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron, was scheduled to
include prayers to remember Thomas Cranmer, one of Welby’s
predecessors as archbishop, who was burned at the stake 457
years ago today.  Cameron is attending the service to officially inaugurate
Welby as successor to Rowan Williams at the head of the Church
of England after telling Christian groups his government cares
about them following a rift over gay marriage, which Welby
called a “challenge” for the church. Speaking at an Easter
reception in his Downing Street, London, office late yesterday,
the premier said “this government does care about faith.”  The government’s legislation to introduce gay marriage
earlier this year split Cameron’s own Conservative Party and was
attacked by most of the country’s religious groups. In an
interview with the  BBC  that aired today, Welby said that while
he supports the church’s policy opposing same-sex relationships,
he finds it challenging.  “You see gay relationships that are just stunning in the
quality of the relationship,” Welby said. “I recognize that
and am deeply challenged by it.”  Queen’s Letter  For today’s ceremony, Welby, 57, waited outside the
cathedral while a letter from Queen Elizabeth II, the supreme
governor of the church, was read out authorizing the clergy to
greet the new archbishop. He struck the door of the cathedral
three times with his pastoral staff before it was opened to him.
He then said: “I am Justin, a servant of Jesus Christ, and I
come as one seeking the grace of God, to travel with you in his
service together.”  The Archbishop of York, John Sentamu, was given the role of
asking Welby to swear an oath of faithfulness to the statutes of
the Church of  England  and an oath of faithfulness to the queen.
The service involves the archbishop being enthroned on the
diocesan chair as the local bishop and then on the seat of St.
Augustine as the Primate of All England.  Welby, whose father’s family were German Jewish immigrants
who moved to the U.K. in the 19th century to escape anti-
Semitism, according to a biography on his  website , is the first
holder of the post with hands-on experience of the corporate-
bond market and trading derivatives.  African Projects  After graduating from the University of Cambridge with a
degree in history and law, Welby joined the oil industry, first
at French explorer Elf Aquitaine SA, taking him to work in Paris
for a time. He worked on projects in West Africa and the North
Sea.  The last five years of his oil career were spent at London-
based Enterprise Oil Plc, where he became group treasurer, a
role that would have put him in charge of the company’s cash and
managing relationships with the banks.  Cameron told church leaders yesterday his government “does
care about the institutions of faith, and it does want you to
stand up and oppose aggressive secularization.”  Welby was among bishops on March 10 to attack plans to cap
welfare-payment increases as the government tries to reduce its
spending. At a private meeting with Conservative lawmakers this
month, one urged Cameron to hit back at the bishops, a
suggestion the prime minister rebuffed, according to one person
present. Instead, the premier last night praised the work of
churches in their communities.  Overseas Aid  The prime minister reminded his audience that in a
“difficult budget” yesterday, the government had reaffirmed
its commitment to increasing overseas aid. He said he’d raised
religious freedom on visits to  Egypt  and  Pakistan . “Wherever we
go, we stand up for the right of Christians to practice their
faith,” he said.  Cameron quoted from a sermon he heard on Sunday that linked
the announcement of the new pope to his parish church’s
administrative meeting.  “Institutions matter, whether they’re representing the
billions of Catholics in the world or whether they’re
representing the small local institutions,” he said.  The prime minister joked that he’d been heartened to read
that Welby had initially been told he was a terrible candidate
to become a Church of England minister.  “At one stage in the Conservative Party leadership
contest, George Osborne told me to call it all off, it wasn’t
going anywhere,” Cameron said. “So I now have an affinity with
the archbishop.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Hutton in  London  at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  