-- Cameron Won’t Face Punitive Claims in BP Spill Lawsuit
-- B y   A l l e n   J o h n s o n   J r . ,   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2013-03-21T22:37:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/cameron-won-t-face-punitive-claims-in-bp-spill-lawsuit.html
Cameron International Corp. (CAM)  won’t
have to face punitive damage claims and a  Schlumberger Ltd. (SLB)  unit
will be dismissed from lawsuits over fault for the 2010  BP Plc (BP/) 
Gulf of Mexico  oil spill , a federal judge ruled.  U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier  in New Orleans refused
yesterday to dismiss gross negligence and willful misconduct
claims against BP,  Halliburton Co. (HAL)  and  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , based on
testimony in a non-jury trial over liability for the fatal 2010
explosion on the Deepwater Horizon rig.  “There was at least negligence on the part of some
people” on the rig when it exploded, Barbier said. The judge
agreed to throw out all claims against Schlumberger unit M-I
Swaco, which provided the rig’s drilling fluids, after finding
the government and oil-spill victims presented no evidence it
helped cause the disaster.  The blowout of the deep-water Macondo well off the coast of
 Louisiana  sent more than 4 million barrels of oil spewing into
the  Gulf of Mexico  and killed 11 people. The accident sparked
hundreds of lawsuits against London-based BP, Transocean and
Halliburton, which provided cement services.  A trial over liability for the disaster began Feb. 25 in
federal court in New Orleans. Barbier will determine
responsibility for the disaster and whether any of the companies
acted with willful or wanton misconduct or reckless indifference
-- the legal requirement for establishing gross negligence.  Spill Victims  If BP is found grossly negligent, it may be liable for more
than $17 billion in pollution fines, as well as punitive damages
to claimants who weren’t part of an $8.5 billion settlement of
lawsuits. For Transocean and Halliburton, a similar finding
would mean they could face punitive-damages awards.  The government and spill victims contend BP was over budget
and behind schedule on the Macondo well, prompting the company
to cut corners and ignore safety tests showing the well was
unstable.  They also allege Halliburton’s cement job was defective and
Transocean employees made a series of missteps on the rig,
including disabling safety systems, failing to properly maintain
the installation and not providing adequate training for its
crew.  Barbier’s ruling came after lawyers for the government and
spill victims rested their case. The plaintiffs spent about four
weeks presenting evidence about the companies’ liability for the
explosion and spill.  ‘Home Free’  Halliburton attorney  Donald Godwin  told Barbier yesterday
he will file a request to dismiss the gross negligence and
willful misconduct claims against the well’s cement contractor.
“I’m not going to grant your motion,” the judge replied.  Barbier agreed to remove M-I Swaco from the case after
finding “no basis” to rule that any act or omission by the
drilling fluid company caused or contributed to the deadly
explosion. “You’re home free,” Barbier told  Hugh Tanner , an
attorney for the company.  Joao Felix , a spokesman for Houston-based Schlumberger,
said the company was “thankful” to be able to put legal
questions about its role in the disaster behind it.  “We are pleased with the court’s complete dismissal of M-I
Swaco from the Deepwater Horizon lawsuit and its finding that M-
I had no fault whatsoever in connection with the events that led
to the blowout and explosion,” Felix said in an e-mailed
statement today.  Blowout Preventer  The judge also concluded lawyers for the government and
spill victims hadn’t produced evidence to back up claims that
officials of Cameron, which made the rig’s so-called blowout
preventer, were grossly negligent in connection with the safety
system.  Witnesses have testified the blowout preventer, designed to
stop explosions and spills, wasn’t properly maintained by the
Transocean crew manning the rig. An examination of the system’s
remains found it suffered from faulty wiring and a dead battery.  “I have not heard any evidence” showing Cameron
executives’ actions met the level of gross negligence, Barbier
said yesterday.  Jeff Altamari, a spokesman for Houston-based Cameron,
didn’t return a call for comment yesterday on Barbier’s
punitive-damage ruling.  Safety System  The judge heard testimony today from  Gregg Childs , an
engineer who testified about the operation of the Deepwater
Horizon’s blowout preventer. The more than 350-ton system is
designed to prevent explosions and spills.  Childs testified yesterday the alleged maintenance issues
with the blowout preventer didn’t stop the safety system from
sealing the well.  Childs, called as an expert by Transocean, told the judge
the flow of oil and gas into the drilling pipe prior to the
blast knocked it off center and stopped the blowout preventer
from functioning properly.  Under cross-examination today, the engineer conceded BP and
Transocean officials were warned a decade before the explosion
the safety system’s design would make it “extremely difficult”
to maintain control of well during an emergency. The companies
opted to have a blowout preventer that operated with a single
sheer to cut the drilling pipe and close the well, he added.  BP and Transocean officials could have required a double-
bladed “blind-shear ram” for the rig’s blowout preventer which
would have improved the system’s chances of avoiding disasters,
Childs added.  “With only one shear ram, it is extremely difficult to
remove all the failure points from the control system,” Childs
told the judge.  The case is In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, 10-md-02179,
U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana ( New
Orleans ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allen Johnson Jr. in New Orleans at  allenmct@gmail.com ;
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  