-- Cameron Evokes Black Wednesday as Pound Weakens 7%: U.K. Credit
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2013-03-20T15:27:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/cameron-s-weakening-pound-shows-austerity-doubts-u-k-credit.html
The pound is bearing the brunt of a
loss of confidence in the economic policies of U.K. Prime
Minister  David Cameron .  Sterling has weakened around 7 percent against the dollar
this year. In the week through Sept. 16, 1992, when investor
 George Soros  earned $1 billion by helping to force the pound out
of the exchange-rate system that preceded the euro, sterling
dropped by 9.5 percent. Black Wednesday, as the day became
known, damaged the Conservatives’ reputation for economic
competence. Economists and investors say a similar judgment
faces the present Tory-led government unless it gets the economy
moving. Gilts are among the world’s worst performers this year.  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne , delivering his
annual budget to Parliament today, said his fiscal watchdog had
cut its 2013 U.K. growth forecast in half to 0.6 percent.
Britain has recovered only half of the output lost in the 2008-
2009 recession, and the country forfeited its top credit rating
at Moody’s Investors Service on Feb. 22. Output in the U.S. is
back above its pre-slump peak and the recovery is gaining pace.  “The chancellor’s policy is bankrupt -- he is going to
have to face that,”  Robert Skidelsky , a member of the upper
chamber of Parliament without party affiliation and biographer
of John  Maynard Keynes , said in a phone interview on March 14.
“The economy is not growing, the pound will go on slipping and
we will lose further credit ratings.”  No Growth  When Cameron and Osborne took office in May 2010, they
predicted the economy would grow more than 5 percent over the
next two years, a  budget deficit  equal to 11 percent of gross
domestic product would fall to 2 percent by April 2015 and the
U.K. would keep its top credit rating. Instead, output rose 1.1
percent, the deficit is still 8 percent of GDP and analysts say
 Fitch Ratings  and  Standard & Poor’s  will follow Moody’s in
downgrading Britain’s credit score after today’s budget.  Credit-default swaps insuring gilts rose 66.5 percent from
a more than four-year low of 26 basis points on Nov. 1, the most
among 67 governments tracked by Bloomberg. The  premium  investors
demand to hold gilts rather than German bunds has increased
almost fivefold since August to 48 basis points.  BOE Stimulus  Constrained by his self-imposed austerity program, Cameron
is relying on the  Bank of England  to revive the economy. The
central bank has bought 375 billion pounds ($564 billion) of
 government bonds  since March 2009 as part of its  quantitative-
easing program  and kept its benchmark  interest rate  at a record
low of 0.5 percent.  As  Mark Carney  prepares to take over as Bank of  England 
governor in July, Osborne said today he is giving policy makers
more flexibility to meet a 2 percent inflation target amid
shocks to the economy.  The current governor,  Mervyn King , and two other officials
maintained their push for more stimulus when the Monetary Policy
Committee met this month, minutes published today showed. They
were defeated by the majority who said more bond purchases could
fan inflation expectations and push the pound lower. The 10-year
 breakeven rate , a gauge of expectations of inflation derived
from a difference in yield between regular and index-linked
bonds, climbed to 3.37 percentage points on March 14, the most
since September 2008.  “The fiscal side of things certainly plays in and is
impacting via the monetary policy route because that has to do
more of the work,”  Ian Stannard , head of European currency
strategy at Morgan Stanley in  London , said by phone on March 18.
“That is putting the pound under pressure.”  Pound Losses  Sterling has lost 4.5 percent since the end of 2012, the
worst performer after the yen, according to Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The pound has had its worst
opening two months of the year since 1985 against the dollar. It
tumbled to a 2 1/2-year low of $1.4832 on March 12 and traded at
$1.5164 as of 2:54 p.m. London time.  Gilts fell 0.1 percent in pounds and 6.6 percent in dollars
this year, among the most of 26 indexes tracked by Bloomberg and
the European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. The
yield on the benchmark 10-year gilt will rise to 2.46 percent by
year-end compared with 1.87 percent today, according to the
weighted average in a Bloomberg News survey.  Black Wednesday broke Britain’s two-year-old peg to the
deutschmark as the Treasury failed to defend the pound against
short sellers such as Soros who bet sterling was overvalued in
the European Exchange Rate Mechanism, a euro precursor that
required members to keep currencies within trading bands.  ERM Crisis  Sterling dropped 12 percent against the German currency
between Sept. 15, 1992 and the end of that year, and by 19
percent against the dollar. While the decline aided Britain’s
 recovery from recession  by making exports more competitive, the
ERM crisis shattered public confidence in  John Major ’s
government. In the 1997 election, the Conservatives lost to  Tony Blair ’s  Labour Party , which retained power until 2010.  The pressure on the pound this year underlines the
challenges facing Cameron, 46, who witnessed the events of Black
Wednesday as a 25 year-old adviser to then Chancellor of the
Exchequer Norman Lamont.  A 0.3 percent contraction in the fourth quarter of 2012
left the economy  3 percent smaller  than it was in the first
quarter of 2008. Only Italy has had a worst performance among
leading industrial nations. By contrast, output in the U.S. was
2.5 percent above its previous peak in the fourth quarter of
2007. The American economy will grow 1.9 percent this year,
while Britain’s will expand 0.9 percent, median forecasts in a
Bloomberg survey show.  Inflation Pressure  The chancellor received more negative news when ONS data
today showed jobless claims fell less than economists forecast
in February and a wider measure of unemployment rose for the
first time in a year as the number of young people looking for
work climbed. Wages rose 1.2 percent in the three months through
January, the least since 2009, intensifying the pressure on
household budgets at a time when inflation is at 2.8 percent and
forecast by the Bank of England to accelerate in coming months.  The economy’s plight is threatening to cost the
Conservatives the next general election in 2015, with recent
 opinion polls  showing the Tories about 10 points behind Labour.  Osborne should be replaced as finance minister, according
to 44 percent of people questioned by ComRes Ltd. between March
15 and March 17. Sixty-one percent said Britain was heading for
another recession and trust in Osborne to run the economy stood
at minus 40, a drop of 13 percentage points from a year earlier.
The poll of 2,032 adults was broadcast by ITV News yesterday.  ‘Poor Position’  Morgan Stanley (MS)  cut its year-end forecast for sterling by
8.9 percent on March 18. The bank estimates the pound will trade
at a 33-month low of $1.43, from a previous forecast of $1.57.
The median estimate compiled by Bloomberg is for sterling to end
the year at $1.52, compared with a forecast of $1.60 at the end
of December.  “The poor position of the fiscal backdrop, the failure of
the government to be hitting all of its fiscal targets and the
fact that growth prospects have disappointed are all part of the
reason why sterling is weaker,” Jane Foley, a senior foreign-
exchange strategist at Rabobank International in London, said in
a phone interview on March 15. Rabobank cut its second quarter
forecast by 4.5 percent to $1.49 to $1.56 on March 8.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net ;
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  