-- Canada Dollar Advances as Fed Maintains Asset-Purchase Program
-- B y   T a y l o r   T e p p e r
-- 2013-03-20T21:13:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/canadian-dollar-rises-as-ecb-buys-cyprus-time-to-renegotiate.html
The Canadian dollar gained against
its U.S. peer for the first time in three days after the  Federal
Reserve  maintained stimulus measures, bolstering growth
expectations in the nation’s biggest trading partner.  Canada ’s currency fluctuated earlier as commodities rose
and European policy makers weighed how far to push Cyprus after
the island nation rejected an unprecedented levy on bank
deposits, jeopardizing a financial bailout. The so-called loonie
advanced against the majority of its 16 most-traded peers before
a report tomorrow forecast to show Canada’s retail sales
increased in January after contracting the prior month.  The statement “shows how Fed doves are firmly in control
and it doesn’t change investors expectations,”  Joe Manimbo , a
market analyst at Western Union Business Solutions, a unit of
 Western Union Co. (WU) , said by phone from Washington D.C. “Some
investors had expected maybe some talk of the Fed perhaps
unwinding some of their bond purchases earlier than expect. And,
since that didn’t come to fruition, that’s helped other
currencies -- like the loonie -- gain against the greenback.”  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is known for the image
of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, climbed 0.1 percent to
C$1.0260 per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto. One loonie buys
97.47 U.S. cents.  Debt Auction  Canada’s benchmark 10-year government bond fell, with
yields increasing five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point,
to 1.86 percent. The 2.75 percent security that matures in June
2022 declined 41 cents to C$107.46.  The  Bank of Canada  auctioned C$3.3 billion ($3.2 billion)
worth of two-year government notes today at an average yield of
0.985 percent, lowered than the 1.168 percent yield from the
Feb. 13 auction of two-year notes. The offering drew C$8.62
billion in bids.  Implied volatility for three-month options on the greenback
versus the Canadian dollar touched 6.1, the lowest level since
Feb. 19, and is down 13 percent this month. Implied volatility
signals the expected pace of currencies swings and is quoted by
traders to set prices. Lower volatility correlates with a
stronger Canadian dollar versus its U.S. counterpart.  Futures on crude oil jumped 0.9 percent to trade at $93.96
a barrel in  New York  after a decline of 1.7 percent yesterday,
the biggest one-day drop on a closing basis in four weeks. The
Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24  raw materials  gained 0.9
percent. Raw materials, including oil, account for almost half
of all of Canada’s exports.  Federal Reserve  The loonie rose after the central bank led by Chairman  Ben
S. Bernanke  said it plans to hold its target  interest rate  near
zero as long as unemployment remains above 6.5 percent and
inflation is projected to be no more than 2.5 percent. The U.S.
is Canada’s largest trading partner.  The purchases will remain divided between $40 billion a
month of mortgage-back securities and $45 billion a month of
Treasury debt. The Fed said the purchases will continue until
“the outlook for the labor market has improved substantially in
a context of  price stability ” and that it will continue to
reinvest maturing securities.  The loonie pared gains earlier as  Germany ’s Merkel said any
solution in Cyprus can’t be based “on a banking model that
clearly isn’t sustainable.” The ECB yesterday reaffirmed its
commitment to offer funding to Cyprus “within the existing
rules,” after Cypriot lawmakers rejected a levy on  bank
deposits .  Cyprus Turmoil  “Merkel’s statements led to a more risk-off sentiment,
which has driven U.S. dollar strength, more than Canadian dollar
weakness,” said David Doyle, a strategist at Macquarie Capital
Markets in Toronto. “The loonie is in wait-and-see mode.”  Canada’s  retail sales  jumped 0.9 percent in January after
dropping 2.1 percent in December, the biggest decline in almost
three years, according to a Bloomberg survey of 20 economists.
Retail sales increased 0.2 percent last January.  Statistics
Canada  will release the report on March 21.  The loonie has lost 2.2 percent during the past six months
against nine developed nation peers tracked by the Bloomberg
Correlation Weighted Indexes. The only currencies that have
fallen off more are the yen and the pound, at 18 percent and 4.7
percent. The  U.S. dollar  has gained 3.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Taylor Tepper in New York at 
 ttepper2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  