-- Cantor Backs Municipal-Bond Tax Break as Needed for Projects
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2013-03-20T18:32:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/cantor-backs-municipal-bond-tax-break-as-needed-for-public-works.html
U.S. House Republican Leader  Eric Cantor  said curbing the tax exemption given to the $3.7 trillion
municipal-bond market may undermine the ability of state and
local governments to finance public-works projects.  Cantor told the National Association of State Treasurers
today in  Washington  that he understands the need for the
Congress to keep the tax break.  State and local governments have been lobbying to keep
investors’ income from municipal debt exempt from taxes, which
holds down their borrowing costs for schools, roads and mass-
transit projects. President  Barack Obama  has proposed capping
the tax-break for high earners, though that proposal has failed
to advance in Congress.  “The message was received, at least in my office, about
the importance of that benefit to states,” said Cantor, of
Virginia. “We can’t be pulling back on that right now given the
current state of our existing infrastructure.”  With the federal government under pressure to find ways to
curb the deficit, the municipal-bond exemption has drawn fresh
scrutiny. The president’s bipartisan deficit-cutting commission
in 2010 proposed doing away with it as part of a package of tax
code changes, a step that failed to gain traction.  Cantor’s comments follow a hearing yesterday of the House
Ways and Means Committee, in which Republicans and Democrats
said they were concerned that any changes to the tax treatment
of municipal debt would increase costs to state and local
governments.  Such changes also would affect investors by diminishing the
tax-benefits of holding the securities, which help push up
prices.  The Senate Finance Committee and the House Ways and Means
Committee are both working on plans to reshape the U.S. tax
code, a goal that has proved elusive amid competing priorities
among Republicans who control the House and the Democratic
majority in the Senate. Such tax changes have previously been
set aside as immediate budget issues, including mandatory
spending cuts that began this month, took priority.  State and local treasurers need to continue lobbying to
preserve the  tax-exemption  in Congress, where lawmakers will be
pressured to retain favorable tax breaks for charities and
mortgage interest, Cantor said.  “You need to keep focused on this and relay the benefit
that these bonds can provide to the people that you represent,”
Cantor told the treasurers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  