-- Cardenas Says Colombia Must Do Everything It Can to Weaken Peso
-- B y   O s c a r   M e d i n a
-- 2013-03-20T20:06:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/cardenas-says-colombia-must-do-everything-it-can-to-weaken-peso.html
Colombia’s government should do
everything it can to weaken the peso to protect the Andean
nation’s exporters, Finance Minister Mauricio Cardenas said.  That could include extending the central bank’s program of
at least $30 million in daily dollar purchases beyond the
scheduled end date in May and looking for other, “creative”
ways to curb the peso’s rally, he said. The bank will accumulate
about $10 billion during 2013, if it continues to buy dollars at
the pace it did in February.  “The question is whether the central bank can do a bit
more, can intervene still more aggressively in the exchange
market, and I believe it can,” Cardenas told flower growers in
Bogota today. “‘Every day, the president calls me and says we
need to be more audacious, more creative.”  Coffee farmers and other agricultural producers blocked
highways from Feb. 25 to March 7 over falling incomes, which
they say has been aggravated by the peso’s strength. Central
bank governor Jose Dario Uribe on March 18 said he would welcome
a weaker currency and that increased dollar purchases are “a
possibility.”  The peso has strengthened 24 percent since 2008, the
second-best performance among 25 emerging market currencies
tracked by Bloomberg, provoking complaints from exporters. The
bank bought $819 million in February.  Cardenas said the government of President Juan Manuel Santos will announce a stimulus package to help agriculture and
industry in the coming days or weeks.  The central bank will cut its  benchmark interest  rate by a
quarter point for a fifth month at its March 22 policy meeting,
according to 27 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Three analysts
predict the bank will hold the rate at 3.75 percent.  Cardenas said he hopes the bank’s policy committee, which
he chairs, will continue its cycle of interest rate cuts.  “Analysts overwhelmingly believe that this is the moment
to cut interest rates, to continue with this policy,” he said.
“We still don’t know where it will stop, that depends on how
the economy performs.”  Colombian’s annual inflation rate fell to 1.83 percent last
month, the lowest since 1955, while the economy operates at less
than full capacity.  Gross domestic product  expanded 3 percent in the fourth
quarter from a year earlier, the weakest pace in the Andean
region, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey
of 27 analysts. The national statistics agency reports on 2012
and fourth-quarter growth tomorrow.  Cardenas says the Colombian economy can grow 4.8 percent
per year without stoking inflation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oscar Medina in Bogota at 
 omedinacruz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Bristow at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net  