-- Cemig Drops on Concern Regulator to Curb Profit: Sao Paulo Mover
-- B y   D e n y s e   G o d o y   a n d   M a r i o   S e r g i o   L i m a
-- 2013-03-20T22:33:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/cemig-drops-on-concern-regulator-to-curb-profit-sao-paulo-mover.html
Brazilian  utility companies  led
losses in  Sao Paulo  after the country’s electricity regulator
lowered metrics that may reduce tariffs.  Cia. Energetica de Minas Gerais  plunged 14 percent, the
most since December, to 22.20 reais at the close of trading in
Sao Paulo.  Light SA (LIGT3)  slumped 6.2 percent to 19.05 reais, the most
since April 2011, while  Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras SA (ELET6)  fell
4.3 percent to 11.48 reais. The benchmark Bovespa index slid 0.6
percent.  Brazil’s electricity regulator Aneel cut the preliminary
asset valuation used to estimate rate reviews for Cemig, as
Brazil’s second-biggest electricity company by market value is
known, according to an official for the Brasilia-based
regulator, who can’t be named because of internal policy. The
official couldn’t immediately provide details on the cut or
timing.  “When something like this happens, it affects shares of
every company,”  Pedro Galdi , an analyst with SLW Corretora,
said in a telephone interview from Sao Paulo.  Cemig’s guidance published in May already mentioned the
effects the rate changes could have in the company, Luiz Fernando Rolla, the Cemig’s chief financial officer, said in a
teleconference today.  “We said several times there would be a reduction with
Aneel’s methodology; we don’t think the result of this rate
revision should be surprising for the market,” Rolla said. “We
are discussing it with Aneel, there are several steps to be
taken until the end of the process.”  Rousseff’s Reduction  The latest potential reduction comes after President  Dilma
Rousseff  cut electricity rates by as much as 32 percent in
November in a bid to boost economic growth.  Banco Bradesco SA (BBDC4) ’s brokerage unit today cut Cemig’s rating
to the equivalent of hold from outperform, saying the lower
valuation would reduce earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, or Ebitda by 247 million reais
($124 million) a year from previous forecasts.  “Although Cemig will appeal to change these figures, we
believe, given the recent track record in similar cases, that
the chances for a meaningful change are small,” analyst
Vladimir Pinto said in a research note to clients.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Denyse Godoy in Sao Paulo at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net ;
Mario Sergio Lima in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 mlima11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  