-- Cerberus Raises $1.3 Billion for Middle-Market Loan Fund
-- B y   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r
-- 2013-03-20T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/cerberus-raises-1-3-billion-for-middle-market-loan-fund.html
Cerberus Capital Management LP, the
private-equity firm led by  Stephen Feinberg , has raised $1.32
billion for a middle-market loan fund that will seek to take
advantage of a pullback in lending, a marketing document shows.  One of Cerberus Levered Loan Opportunities Fund II LP’s
first investments is expected to be a group of loans issued by a
company that the firm has invested in through another fund,
according to the private-placement memorandum, a copy of which
was obtained by  Bloomberg News . Cerberus expects to close the
fund in May, the document shows.  Private-equity managers are gathering capital to lend to
mid-sized businesses as banks and other traditional lenders have
pulled back. Sankaty Advisors LLC, the debt-investment unit of
Bain Capital LLC, is seeking $1 billion for a middle-market
lending fund.  Carlyle Group LP (CG)  and KKR & Co. are raising first-
time funds that will make loans to mid-size businesses.  Cerberus’s levered-loan fund is targeting $1.25 billion
with a $1.5 billion limit, compared with the $814 million
gathered by its predecessor, according to the  Pennsylvania
Public School Employees’ Retirement System , which in September
disclosed that its investment staff recommended a $225 million
commitment to the fund. The Cerberus document doesn’t mention a
target.  John Dillard , a spokesman for New York-based Cerberus at
 Weber Shandwick , declined to comment on the fundraising.  Leverage Commitments  Cerberus expects to use a leverage-to-net-asset-value ratio
of as much as 2 to 1, employing the use of borrowed money to
amplify returns. The firm has secured $818 million in equity and
$500 million in leverage commitments, according to its marketing
document. The firm’s affiliates also recently closed on $530
million in equity and $215 million of leverage for two separate
accounts that will make middle-market loans, the document shows.  The new fund will originate loans and invest in secured
debt obligations recently originated by Cerberus’s lending
business or other parties, according to the marketing document.  In one of its first deals, the fund will work with partners
to purchase loans from Cerberus-backed CorePointe Group LLC, the
document shows. The aggregate par value of the loans
contemplated for purchase was $530.5 million as of Sept. 30.  The marketing document lists risks affiliated with the
CorePointe transaction. Cerberus’s 21 percent stake in the
company means it will benefit from that deal’s proceeds. The
deal will comprise a “significant portion” of the new fund’s
portfolio, according to the document.  CorePointe was formed in connection with Cerberus’ purchase
of Chrysler Group from DaimlerChrysler AG in 2007. CorePointe
started lending to middle-market companies in 2010, using part
of the assets of auto lender Chrysler Financial Corp.  Cerberus sold Chrysler Financial to  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) 
in 2011 for about $6.3 billion while CorePointe retained
ownership of certain commercial assets of the business including
middle-market loans, according to the marketing document.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sabrina Willmer in  New York  at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  