-- Chesapeake Faces April Trial Over $1.3 Billion Bond Call
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2013-03-20T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/chesapeake-faces-april-trial-over-1-3-billion-bond-call.html
Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  and  Bank of
New York Mellon  Corp. are scheduled to face off at trial
beginning April 23 over the gas producer’s disputed claim it met
a deadline to redeem $1.3 billion in bonds early at par, or 100
cents on the dollar.  U.S. District Judge Paul Engelmayer in  Manhattan  yesterday
set the trial two weeks earlier than the companies had
requested, saying either side should have time to appeal his
eventual decision before the redemption of the notes is formally
executed on about May 13 or May 14.  Chesapeake, the second-biggest  natural gas producer  in the
U.S., issued the early redemption notice on March 15. A week
earlier, the Oklahoma City-based company sued  BNY Mellon (BK) , the
indenture trustee for the notes, seeking a court order that it
had until that date to issue the notice without paying $400
million in extra “make whole” interest.  BNY Mellon, the world’s largest custody bank, argued that
the extra payment was required because the call wasn’t completed
by March 15. Steven Bierman, the lawyer for a group of investors
in the case, said he would continue the demand for the make-
whole payment in court.  The make-whole dispute “is important for the industry,”
Bierman said at yesterday’s hearing. Chesapeake’s stance goes
against the “unambiguous language” of the indenture for the
notes, he said.  Bierman objected to Engelmayer’s attempt to focus the case
only on the dispute over the deadline itself, saying he wanted
to ask Chesapeake for evidence related to the make-whole demand
as well.  Noteholder Deadline  Investors holding $250 million in the 6.775 percent notes
due March 2019 won court approval last week to intervene in the
case and were also involved in agreeing to the schedule.
Engelmayer said any other noteholders who want to be involved in
the case should make themselves known to the court by March 22.  The day before Chesapeake made the early call, Engelmayer
denied an injunction sought by the company that would have
prevented  BNY Mellon  and the investor group from treating the
call as a ‘make-whole early redemption if the judge later ruled
the call was made too late to be at par.  Chesapeake issued the notice anyway, because Engelmayer
ruled that even though he was denying the injunction for legal
reasons, the bank trustee and the investors were
“overwhelmingly” likely to lose if they took the make-whole
demand to trial. The trial should focus on the deadline instead,
the judge said.  BNY Mellon’s Change  BNY Mellon, based in  New York , triggered the lawsuit after
it initially agreed with Chesapeake on the deadline in February
and then changed its position when noteholder River Birch
Capital LLC objected.  Engelmayer, in his March 14 ruling, said the contract was
ambiguous and he would need to see evidence about how it was
drafted before deciding at a trial which side is correct.  The early redemption could still be scrapped within two
months if Chesapeake was wrong about the deadline. Engelmayer
said the noteholders appear to have a better argument based on
the early evidence he’s seen.  The group of investors involved in the case also includes
Archer Capital Management LP, Ares Management LLC, Aurelius
Capital Management LP, Carlson Capital LP, Cetus Capital LLC,
Latigo Partners LLP, Monarch Alternative Capital LP, Schoenfeld
Asset Management LP and Taconic Capital Advisors LP.  The case is Chesapeake Energy Corp. v. Bank of New York
Mellon Trust Co., 13-cv-01582, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in New York at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  