-- Chevron, Green Groups Agree Set Standards for Shale Gas
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2013-03-20T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/chevron-green-groups-agree-set-standards-for-shale-gas.html
Chevron Corp. (CVX)  joined natural gas
producers and environmental groups to form an independent center
that will set standards for drilling by hydraulic fracturing in
the U.S. Appalachian region.  Gas output in Pennsylvania, Ohio and West Virginia is
booming as drillers unlock shale deposits using the process,
also called fracking, that shoots water, sand and chemicals
underground to crack rock and free trapped gas. The process has
spurred complaints from landowners and environmental groups
about increased air pollution and water contamination.  “Shale gas has transformed our nation’s energy mix, while
both offering environmental benefits and posing serious
environmental challenges,”  Fred Krupp , president of the
Environmental Defense Fund, a group that's part of the venture,
said today in a statement.  The Center for Sustainable Shale Development, being formed
today in Pittsburgh, will provide independent evaluations of gas
producers that join the effort. The center’s standards will
limit flaring, encourage maximum water recycling and reduce the
toxicity of the fracking fluid.  Domestic production of natural gas has boosted the  U.S.
economy  by lowering the cost of the fuel used in manufacturing.
The Marcellus Shale, which runs along the Appalachian Mountains
from New York to Virginia, is the nation’s largest-producing gas
field, according to energy company  Range Resources Corp. (RRC)   Industry groups for chemical, fertilizer and steel
companies are touting economic gains as natural gas supplies
become more accessible. Low-cost natural gas could generate $72
billion in  capital investment  as petrochemical companies
relocate or boost investments in the U.S., according to the
American Chemistry Council.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  