-- China Shipping Venture to Order Six LNG Ships for $1.2 Billion
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g   a n d   A i b i n g   G u o
-- 2013-03-20T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/china-shipping-venture-to-order-six-lng-ships-for-1-2-billion.html
China Shipping Development Co. (1138) ’s
venture will order six liquefied natural gas tankers worth about
$1.2 billion by June to tap the nation’s rising demand for
cleaner fuel, Chairman Li Shaode said.  “We will expand LNG transportation business to make it
become a new profit growth driver as soon as possible,” Li told
reporters in  Hong Kong  yesterday. “The deal means a 20-year
shipping contract for us, which will bring us stable earnings.”  The addition of the tankers comes as the world’s largest
energy consumer plans to more than double natural gas
consumption to cut its dependence on coal and oil. The vessel
purchase will be made by a venture owned by China Petrochemical
Corp., also known as Sinopec Group, China Shipping and  Mitsui
O.S.K Lines Ltd. (9104)  and each ship will have a capacity to carry
174,000 cubic meters of natural gas, Li said.  The vessels will cost about $205 million each and the
shipping company has arranged syndicated loans to finance the
deal, Chief Financial Officer Wang Kangtian said.  Hudong Zhonghua Shipbuilding Group Co., the only Chinese
shipyard that has built LNG tankers, will make the six vessels,
Wang said. China Shipping is also in talks with two Chinese
shipyards to order an additional four, which may be announced as
early as this year, he said.  China Shipping, the crude and dry-bulk carrier of the
nation’s second-largest shipping company, had earlier ordered
four LNG carriers from Hudong Zhonghua through its venture with
Mitsui.  Sinopec in January last year agreed to pay $1.1 billion to
increase its stake in an Australian LNG development led by
 ConocoPhillips (COP)  and  Origin Energy Ltd. (ORG)   The purchase plan comes after China Shipping reported a 93
percent drop in 2012 net income to 73.7 million  yuan  ($11.9
million). Sluggish demand and excess capacity in international
and domestic markets resulted in a downturn in freight rates,
the company said in a statement in January.  China Shipping fell 1.7 percent to HK$4.09 in Hong Kong
trading yesterday. The benchmark  Hang Seng Index  rose 1 percent.  -- Editors: Subramaniam Sharma, Suresh Seshadri  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jasmine Wang in Hong Kong at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  