-- China Takes One Step Away From One-Child Policy
-- B y   A d a m   M i n t e r
-- 2013-03-20T20:08:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/china-takes-one-step-away-from-one-child-policy.html
China ’s notorious “ one-child ”
population-control strategy has always been about money and
resources. Did China have sufficient food to feed a billion
mouths? Could a rapidly expanding population be led into a
modern, market-oriented future? Morality,  social impacts  and the
preservation of Chinese culture were seemingly secondary
concerns, even in the face of international condemnation of
 coercive means  to enforce the policy.  Now, more than three decades into the “one-child” policy
(actually,  a set of policies  restricting the number of children
Chinese may have), the economic calculus that made Chinese
population control a logical and even necessary (in the eyes of
many Chinese) course of action is faltering. As a result, last
week the Chinese government took the first steps toward
reforming how its population-control policies are devised,
enforced and perceived.  China’s once cheap and plentiful pool of workers is
 becoming more scarce  and expensive; the  labor force  declined by
3.45 million in 2012 and is expected to decrease by  10 million
per year starting in 2025 . The shrinking pool of workers  will be
forced to support  an expanding population of senior citizens --
200 million in 2013 -- that is expected to arrive at 360 million
(more than the current  U.S. population ) in 2030. Meanwhile, over
the next two decades,  pension liabilities may reach  more than
$10 trillion.  Partly in response to this coming crunch, the government
has begun floating proposals to  raise China’s retirement age ,
much to the chagrin of future retirees. On March 16, Luo Jun, a
Beijing-based chief executive officer of an online travel
agency, used his Sina Weibo microblogging account to  express 
irritation:  “There’s something that’s always puzzled me. We insist that
family planning must continue as a national policy because we
have too many people. However, proposals to postpone retirement
suggest that there are too few people and a  labor shortage . The
logic is contradictory.”  The solution, at least for some Chinese microbloggers, is
simple. The deputy editor of the Guangxi Daily News, a news
portal in Guangxi province,  tweeted  via Sina Weibo on March 16:
“The key to solving the problems of an aging society is to offer
a second-child policy rather than postpone the  retirement age .”  China’s population-control policies have actually undergone
adjustments almost from their inception. Today, there are
numerous exceptions that allow for second children. The 8
percent of China’s population that belongs to an official
minority is  exempt from restrictions . Nonetheless, over the last
decade, calls for reform --  especially in the form of a
widespread second-child policy  -- have become more insistent.  The most serious discussions typically happen each spring
 during the annual “two sessions”  of China’s top legislature and
legislative advisory body, when Beijing is flooded with local
officials with time on their hands (in between rubber-stamping
new  proposals  and  leaders ). Invariably, these discussions and
reform proposals  amount to little more  than topics for the media
to cover.  Still, in many quarters, both public and official sentiment
in favor of population control remains strong. Most arguments
allude to some version of the statistic contained in this
passage from a  March 7 editorial  in the Communist Party-owned,
pro-government Global Times newspaper: “We have avoided more
than 400 million people being born in China since the 1980s,
relieving the stress on national finances.”  Popular support for this point of view, and extensions of
it, are not hard to find on Chinese microblogs. For example, on
March 12, a microblogger in Shanghai, reacting to  news that the
population-control policies  might be relaxed, could not contain
his contempt:  “Family Planning Commission officials: watering down
population control policies to solve the problems of an aging
population is like drinking poison to quench thirst. The
problems posed by an aging population will pass, but unleash our
fertility and we’ll be ruined.”  Arguably, a bigger impediment to the reform of China’s
population policy is that China’s National Population and Family
Planning Commission, the agency in charge of enforcing
population control, reportedly  employs more than 500,000 people. 
This makes it a particularly potent political force in a country
where public-sector employment remains an important means of
patronage and economic development. Outright abolition of the
agency and its policies would create more problems than it would
solve -- at least, from the perspective of Chinese leaders
primarily concerned with stability.  A more cautious political approach is needed. A key first
step came last week during the 2013 two sessions, when, as part
of a  restructuring of China’s State Council  (roughly equivalent
to a U.S. presidential cabinet), China’s new government merged
the National Population and Family Planning Commission with the
Health Ministry. The restructuring siphoned off responsibility
for what Xinhua, the state-owned newswire,  reported as  “drawing
up the population development strategies and population
policies” from the National Population and Family Planning
Commission to the National Development and Reform Commission,
China’s chief economic planning agency. By doing this, China’s
new government seems to be explicitly connecting its population
policy making to the macroeconomic trends that have begun to
worry economists at home and abroad.  The purpose of the merger is at once obvious and murky:
Obvious in that it weakens the powerful National Population and
Family Planning Commission but murky in that commission’s focus
is much altered. It’s a point  made by Wang Yukai , a professor
with the Chinese Academy of Governance, in an interview with
Xinhua: “’After the integration, China still needs to keep to
its family planning policy, but what is more important is that
China must strive to improve the quality of the population,’ he
said, referring to boosting various aspects of people’s lives,
including education, health and general well-being.” Though
Xinhua did not spell out any specific policies, a public shift
toward more qualitative, rather than quantitative, targets is
monumental.  Still, it’s taken more than 30 years for the negative
economic consequences of China’s population-control policy to
become serious enough to inspire reform. Surely, a demographic
rebalancing will take as long. But even if the economic benefits
of reform are far off, the more important humane effects could
be felt sooner, providing Chinese citizens with expanded, though
still limited, reproductive freedoms that they haven’t known in
decades.  (Adam Minter, the Shanghai correspondent for the World View
blog, is writing “Junkyard Planet,” a book on the global
recycling industry. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the author of this article: Adam Minter at
 ShanghaiScrap@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article: Zara Kessler
at  zkessler@bloomberg.net . 