-- China Telecom Profit Beats Estimates as IPhone Lifts Data
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-20T08:14:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/china-telecom-profit-beats-estimates-as-iphone-lifts-data.html
China Telecom Corp. (728) , the country’s
biggest fixed-line carrier, reported fourth-quarter profit that
beat analysts’ estimates as customers using  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone
helped boost sales of wireless data.  Net income  fell 17 percent to 2.36 billion  yuan  ($380
million) from 2.84 billion yuan a year earlier, the Beijing-
based company said in a  statement  today. That surpassed the 2.04
billion yuan average of six  analysts’ estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg.  Chairman Wang Xiaochu began sales of subsidized iPhones
last year, helping the company lure subscribers in the battle
with larger wireless carriers  China Mobile Ltd. (941)  and China Unicom
( Hong Kong ) Ltd. China Telecom said at the time the device would
boost long-term growth with “short-term pressure” on
profitability due to promotion costs. The company said mobile
data traffic volume almost tripled last year.  “ Average revenue per user  of 53.9 yuan was stronger than
we expected on both the mobile voice and data side,” Lisa Soh,
an analyst with Macquarie Group Ltd. in Hong Kong, wrote in a
report today.  China Telecom rose 0.8 percent to close at HK$3.93 in Hong
Kong trading today. The stock has declined 8.8 percent this year
compared with a 1.8 percent drop in the benchmark  Hang Seng
Index .  Sales Rise  Sales in the fourth quarter rose 17 percent to 73.1 billion
yuan, from 62.6 billion yuan. That compares with the 73.2
billion-yuan average of six analysts’  estimates .  Since releasing the iPhone, the carrier has reported  three
straight declines  in quarterly profit.  “As China Telecom continues to focus on 3G expansion, we
expect selling expenses, including handset subsidies, to remain
at a higher level,” Cynthia Meng, a Hong Kong-based analyst
with Jefferies Group Inc., wrote in a March 12 note to clients.  The carrier, the nation’s third-ranked wireless carrier,
added 8 million users to its mobile unit in the quarter,
boosting the number of subscribers to 160.6 million. That
compares with 710.3 million customers at China Mobile and 239.3
million at China Unicom.  In December, China Telecom completed the purchase of a
third-generation mobile network from its state-owned parent.
Because the parent had borne costs to upgrade the network in the
past, the acquisition will boost the Hong Kong-listed company’s
capital spending 40 percent to 75 billion yuan this year, it
said in a  presentation  on its website today.  With the 3G network, the company “captured the development
pattern of the mobile Internet and developed sustainable
competitive advantages,” Wang said in the statement.  China Telecom entered the wireless market in 2008 by
acquiring the smaller of China Unicom’s two mobile divisions in
a government-led revamp of the nation’s mobile-phone industry.  China Mobile on March 14 reported fourth-quarter  net income 
climbed 6.1 percent to 36 billion yuan, beating analysts’
estimates.  China Unicom will report results for the period tomorrow.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  