-- China’s Stocks Gain Most in Two Months as DeMark Predicts Rally
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-20T08:27:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/china-s-stock-futures-rise-signaling-gains-for-benchmark-index.html
China’s stocks  rose the most in two
months before a report that may show manufacturing expanded and
as Market Studies LLC’s Tom DeMark said  Shanghai ’s equity index
will rally as much as 28 percent by September.  China  Citic Bank Corp. climbed by the 10 percent daily
limit, leading a 4.7 percent surge in the gauge of financial
companies on the  CSI 300 Index. (SHSZ300)   FAW Car Co. (000800)  paced gains by
automakers after Xinhua News Agency said the government ordered
the company’s vehicles. DeMark said yesterday the  Shanghai
Composite (SHCOMP)  Index will resume an advance after falling 8 percent
from this year’s peak.  “Recent declines have already priced in investors’ more
pessimistic view about economic growth,” said  Li Jun , a
strategist at Central China Securities Co. in Shanghai. “Given
that stocks are still not expensive, a rebound is justified.”  The Shanghai Composite climbed 2.7 percent to 2,317.38 at
the close, its biggest gain since Jan. 14. Trading volumes on
the index were 10 percent higher than the 30-day average, while
30-day volatility increased to the highest level since February
2012. The CSI 300 rose 3.4 percent to 2,610.17. The  Hang Seng
China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  rallied 2.2 percent in  Hong Kong  after
falling 12 percent from its Feb. 1 high through yesterday.  The  Hang Seng Index  added 1 percent. In a bull-case
scenario, Hong Kong’s benchmark gauge will more than double from
current levels by 2015 as global central banks maintain loose
monetary policies and  China’s economy  grows, Morgan Stanley
analysts led by  Jonathan Garner  wrote in a report yesterday.  DeMark Prediction  The Shanghai Composite will resume the  rally  once it falls
below 2,232 today or tomorrow, DeMark, who correctly predicted a
retreat in the Chinese stock gauge last month, said by e-mail
yesterday. We “are identifying a low-risk entry zone just
beneath today’s low of the Shanghai Composite which should be a
bottom prior to the resumption of the advance,” DeMark said.  Chinese stock indexes declined from their peaks for the
year amid concern an economic recovery will falter as officials
take steps to cool the  property market  and restrain inflation.
Bank of America Corp. cut China’s 2013 growth forecast to 8
percent from 8.1 percent. The Shanghai gauge is valued at 9.5
times projected 12-month earnings, compared with the seven-year
average of 15.8, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics are due to release a
preliminary manufacturing index for this month tomorrow. The
gauge may rise to 50.8 from 50.4 in February, according to the
median estimate of 11 analysts in a Bloomberg survey. A reading
above 50 indicates expansion.  Banks Advance  Citic Bank climbed to 5.16  yuan , its highest level since
Feb. 4. Founder Securities Co., the Chinese partner of Credit
Suisse Group AG’s investment banking venture, rallied 10 percent
to 7.96 yuan, taking its gain this year to 81 percent. Hundred-
day  volatility  in the CSI 300’s financial gauge was at 30.7, its
highest since February 2010.  The banking regulator encouraged small banks to focus on
branches’ loan-to-deposit ratios using the average daily level
each month rather than a specific day, the 21st Century Business
Herald reported, citing a person it didn’t identify. That may
increase lending capacity, said Tan Hui, a Beijing-based analyst
at Founder Securities.  Separately, securities firms will be able to set their own
minimum-fund limits for investors to start short selling and
margin trading, the China Securities Journal reported today,
citing unidentified people from brokerages.  Index Call  DeMark, the  Paradise Valley , Arizona-based creator of
indicators to show turning points in securities, said Feb. 6
that the measure would decline about 8 percent to within a range
of 2,230 to 2,250 before rebounding. The index was down 8
percent from when he made the call to the March 18 close of
2,240.02.  DeMark who has spent more than 40 years developing market
indicators, said Dec. 4 that the Shanghai Composite would climb
as much as 48 percent to 2,900 within nine months. That advance
will be achieved before September, he said by e-mail yesterday.  DeMark is chief executive officer of Market Studies, which
makes money by charging traders for access to its indicators.
The company also sells subscriptions to the indicators on the
Bloomberg Professional service for $500 a month. Bloomberg LP,
the parent of  Bloomberg News , takes a percentage. DeMark has a
similar arrangement with Thomson Reuters Corp. DeMark won’t say
how many subscribers he has.  Automakers Surge  A  gauge  tracking consumer discretionary stocks jumped 3.3
percent, its biggest gain since Jan. 14. FAW Car rallied 10
percent to 8.34 yuan. Over 10 Chinese provinces and central
government departments have procured “large batches” of China
FAW Group Corp.’s Red Flag H7 cars.  Other automakers also advanced by the daily limit.
Guangzhou Automobile Group Co. surged 10 percent to 6.14 yuan.
Great Wall Motor Co. added 10 percent to 33.32 yuan.  “Domestic carmakers are going to benefit from government
procurement,” said  Wang Zheng , Shanghai-based chief investment
officer at Jingxi Investment Management Co., which manages $120
million. “Today’s rally is also a re-rating of investors’
pessimistic view about auto sales outlooks. Things are actually
not as bad as they expected.”  Today’s gains in stocks come after the Hang Seng China
index tumbled 2.1 percent on March 18 as slowing growth and
faster inflation spurred JPMorgan Chase & Co. to cut the
nation’s shares to underweight. The decline dragged the index
into a so-called correction after falling more than 10 percent
since Feb. 1.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allen Wan at 
 awan3@bloomberg.net  