-- China Banks Rally on Valuation as Regulator May Loosen Loan Rule
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-20T05:14:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/china-banks-rally-on-valuation-as-regulator-may-loosen-loan-rule.html
Chinese banks  rallied in  Shanghai 
and  Hong Kong , rebounding from valuations near record lows as a
newspaper  reported  that regulators may ease enforcement of loan
rules at smaller lenders.  China  Citic Bank Corp. surged by its daily limit of 10
percent to 5.16  yuan  in Shanghai and rose 4.8 percent in Hong
Kong as of 11:50 a.m.  Ping An Bank Co. (000001)  gained 6.6 percent in the
mainland city and  China Everbright Bank Co. (601818)  climbed 5 percent.  The China Banking Regulatory Commission encouraged small
banks to focus on branches’ loan-to-deposit ratios using the
average daily level each month and to stop checking the ratio on
any given day, the 21st Century Business Herald reported, citing
a person it didn’t identify. That may increase lending capacity,
said Tan Hui, a Beijing-based analyst at Founder Securities Co.  “Lack of deposits is the biggest constraint for loan
expansion at most smaller banks,” Tan said. “We are seeing
positive signs for banks’ operations this year. At the current
valuations, Chinese banks will be very attractive to many”
foreign investors.  China’s 16 publicly-traded lenders have gained an average
10 percent this year, compared with the 1.6 percent increase in
the benchmark  Shanghai Composite Index. (SHCOMP)  They trade at about 6.9
times estimated earnings for this year, near a record low,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  China doesn’t allow banks to lend more than 75 percent of
their deposits, to contain risk. Domestic lenders advanced 8.2
trillion yuan of  new loans  last year, 10 percent more than 2011
and the second-highest level on record, central bank data show.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jun Luo in Shanghai at 
 jluo6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  