-- China’s Brokerage Stocks Rise on Profit Outlook: Shanghai Mover
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-20T06:31:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/china-s-brokerage-stocks-rise-on-profit-outlook-shanghai-mover.html
Chinese brokerages rose in Shanghai
and Shenzhen trading as investors bet that the industry will
deliver better earnings amid a stock market recovery.  Citic Securities Co. (600030) , the country’s largest brokerage by
market value, jumped as much as 6.4 percent, the biggest
intraday gain since Jan. 14, and traded up 6.1 percent at 13.43
 yuan  at 2 p.m. Second-ranked  Haitong Securities Co. (600837)  rose as much
as 6.5 percent and  Founder Securities Co. (601901) , the Chinese partner
of Credit Suisse Group AG’s investment banking joint venture,
advanced as much as 9.4 percent.  The CSI 300 Financial Index, which tracks banks and
brokerages, rose 4.6 percent, the biggest gain since March 5.
 China’s stocks  rose the most in two weeks before a report that
may show manufacturing expanded this month and as Market Studies
LLC’s Tom DeMark said Shanghai’s equity index will rally as much
as 28 percent by September.  “Brokerages will benefit directly when the stock market
goes up,” Zhang Yanbing, an analyst at Shanghai-based Zheshang
Securities Co. in Shanghai, said by telephone today. “The
market is recovering from a steep downward correction.”  The recent appointment of a new chief at the country’s
securities watchdog will probably help investor sentiment, Zhang
said. “The regulator will maintain policy continuity and
stability.”  Former  Bank of China Ltd. (3988)  Chairman Xiao Gang will replace
 Guo Shuqing  as head of the China Securities Regulatory
Commission, according to a person with direct knowledge of the
matter. Since Guo became chairman of the securities watchdog in
2011, it has expanded foreign investor quotas to buy stocks, cut
trading fees and pushed companies to increase dividends.  China will continue IPO reviews and allow companies that
meet criteria to begin trading after Xiao’s appointment, China
National Radio reported yesterday, citing an unidentified
analyst.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Aipeng Soo in Beijing at 
 asoo4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  