-- CIMB Chief Pushes Brother’s Case for Re-Election: Southeast Asia
-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 2013-03-21T05:19:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/cimb-chief-pushes-brother-s-case-for-re-election-southeast-asia.html
Nazir Razak, head of  Malaysia ’s
second-largest bank, is speaking out for his brother to be
returned as prime minister amid concern the ruling alliance
could lose more seats in polls that must be held within weeks.  “The present prime minister has a very clear path forwards
in terms of the transformation of the economy,” Nazir, the
chief executive officer of  CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. (CIMB) , said in a
Bloomberg Television interview with  Susan Li  in  Hong Kong . “If
there’s a change there, it would disappoint investors and they
would have to relook at their view of Malaysia.”  Elder brother, Najib Razak, is facing the most competitive
general election in Malaysia’s history after the National Front
coalition won the last poll in 2008 by its narrowest margin in
more than five decades. The opposition, campaigning on an anti-
corruption platform, is heading for victory, its leader  Anwar
Ibrahim , said this month.  The benchmark FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index has fallen 3.6
percent after closing at a record on Jan. 7, the worst
performing major gauge in  Southeast Asia  this year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The ringgit has slumped 2 percent
this year.  CIMB has been Malaysia’s biggest debt arranger and most
prolific underwriter of initial public offerings for the past
four years since Nazir’s brother became prime minister,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The stock has doubled
in value between Najib’s inauguration in April 2009 and the end
of 2012, outperforming an 85 percent jump in the KLCI index.  CIMB has since slumped 5.8 percent as polls approach, the
benchmark’s worst performing lender, Bloomberg data show. The
stock was 0.3 percent higher at 7.19 ringgit as of the midday
trading break in  Kuala Lumpur  today.  ‘Election Proxy’  “CIMB is seen as a direct election proxy because of the
relationship of the CEO to the prime minister,”  Alan Richardson , a Hong Kong-based fund manager who helps oversee
about $110 billion for Samsung Asset Management Co., said by
phone. “If the election result is seen as comfortable for Najib
and Barisan Nasional, that stock will go up.”  Nazir, 46, joined the corporate advisory division of CIMB
Investment Bank Bhd. in 1989 and became CEO of the enlarged
group in November 2006 after the firm’s securities and
commercial lending operations were combined. Since then, he has
led the group’s expansion into Southeast Asia through
acquisitions in countries including  Thailand  and the
 Philippines .  Share Sales  The Kuala Lumpur-based lender began dominating Bloomberg’s
underwriting league tables for Malaysia even before Najib became
premier. It has been ranked first for debt underwriting since
2005 and has topped the IPO underwriter ranking for seven of the
past 10 years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  CIMB helped arrange Malaysia’s three biggest share-sales
last year. Palm oil producer  Felda Global Ventures Holdings Bhd. (FGV) 
raised $3.3 billion,  IHH Healthcare Bhd. (IHH)  sold $2.1 billion of
stock and Astro Malaysia Holdings Bhd. issued $1.5 billion of
shares.  Malaysia’s IPO market grew to become the world’s fifth
largest last year, up from 14th in 2011, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. It overtook more established financial
hubs, raising $6.8 billion, the data show.  Najib, 59, has streamlined bureaucracy and opened up more
industries to foreign investors. Private sector spending has
tripled since 2009, with government revenue at a record last
year and the budget  deficit  shrinking, according to a government
report released this week.  Corruption, Monopolies  Najib’s National Front coalition is seeking re-election
after holding power for more than five decades in the face of a
resurgent opposition led by Anwar. The prime minister took over
mid-term after Abdullah Ahmad Badawi stood aside to take
responsibility for the 2008 election result. The premier must
dissolve parliament by April 28 for vote to be held within 60
days.  Anwar’s  People’s Alliance  has promised to clamp down on
corruption, abolish monopolies and bring down living costs if it
comes to power, according to its manifesto.  “If there’s a change in government, it’s actually an
opportunity for investors to gain more in the long term,” Ong
Kian Ming, a political analyst at Kuala Lumpur’s UCSI University
and an opposition election strategist, said by phone. “In the
short term, yes, there would be some jitters. Significant
structural reform would lead to better economic policies that
would make the country more competitive in the long run.”  Asean Expansion  CIMB has also grown abroad through acquisitions, most
recently buying some of Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s Asia-
Pacific investment banking interests and a controlling stake in
Bank of Commerce in the Philippines.  Southeast Asia will see more investment banking deals this
year, albeit smaller in size compared to 2012, Nazir said. CIMB
became Thailand’s top IPO underwriter last year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Thailand will be very active this year and  Indonesia  too
will be interesting,” he said in yesterday’s interview. “The
action in Asean will be more broad-based. Last year was more
like Malaysia leading the show.”  The nation’s $288 billion  economy  grew at the fastest pace
in 2 1/2 years last quarter as Najib boosted spending ahead of
the election. GDP rose 6.4 percent in the three months through
December from a year earlier, after a revised 5.3 percent gain
in the previous quarter.  Najib’s government has identified $444 billion of private-
sector-led projects, including a mass-transit railway and oil
storage, to steer growth in the current decade under an economic
plan unveiled after he came into power in 2009. He also aims to
cut Malaysia’s  budget deficit  to 3 percent of gross domestic
product by 2015 from 4.5 percent last year, according to the
government report this week.  “I totally understand why the market can be a little bit
edgy,” Nazir said. “Relevant to many markets, the role of
government in the Malaysian economy is important.” The election
outcome is “important to the future direction of the country
economically.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chong Pooi Koon in Kuala Lumpur at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Barry Porter at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  