-- Coba Project Drops Plan to Administer Consolidated Tape
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2013-03-20T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/coba-project-drops-plan-to-administer-consolidated-tape.html
The Coba Project Ltd. has abandoned
its attempt to administer a consolidated tape for European share
prices because of “insufficient support” from banks, fund
managers, data providers and  stock exchanges .  Consolidated tape lacks support from the institutions
needed to make it happen, according to Graham Dick, the former
head of business development at Chi-X Europe Ltd., and Mark Schaedel, the former global head of market data at  NYSE
Euronext (NYX) , who started the Coba Project.  FIX Protocol Ltd.,  the London-based organization that owns
the global-messaging format for financial trading, published a
set of guidelines in November for how trade reports and market
data should be consolidated to improve price transparency for
European equities. Days later, Dick and Schaedel established the
 Coba Project  as their plan to implement the FIX proposals,
setting out the costs and how to share revenue from the model.  “Given the distance that’s left between the different
positions, we are suspending the project,” Schaedel said in an
interview. “We don’t have enough support.”  Incumbent exchanges continue to provide the reference price
for stocks listed on their markets, prompting calls for a
consolidated tape that calculates prices from all the trading
venues where equities are traded.  The European Commission is working on an update to its
Markets in Financial Instruments Directive, or Mifid. It wants
to make a data feed that shows the price, volume and location of
individual stock trades. The commission has considered three
ways of introducing a consolidated tape: creating competition
between different providers, selecting a single provider, or
finding a utility to run the project on a non-profit basis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net  or @NandiniSukumar on Twitter  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  