-- Copper Exports Delayed as Chile Port Strike Enters Fifth Day
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s   a n d   M a t t   C r a z e
-- 2013-03-20T19:12:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/copper-exports-delayed-as-chilean-port-strike-enters-fifth-day.html
Copper exports slowed from the
world’s  top producer  of the metal as a port strike in northern
 Chile  entered its fifth day.  Some workers at the port of Angamos in the Antofagasta
region started striking March 16 to push for better conditions,
blocking others from entering the area. The unrest has delayed
the loading of copper from Codelco onto one vessel, an official
from the state-owned miner said by telephone today.  Codelco managed to deliver copper to be stored at the port
today after attempts were blocked March 19, said the official,
who declined to be named because of internal policy. The strike
threatens to spread to other ports in Chile after talks with the
government and port operator last night failed to end the
conflict, a union representative said.  “The port isn’t operating and no neighboring port will
receive our shipments,” the representative, Roberto Portales,
said in an e-mailed response to questions. “There is no
deadline to end the protest.”  The Codelco official briefed on the matter didn’t specify
the volume of copper shipments that had been delayed during the
protests. The strike is preventing two ships from leaving the
port, which normally handles 10 or more ships on a weekly basis,
union President Richard Orellana said by phone today.  “There are zero exports,” he said. “This will last until
we get what we’re asking.”  Copper Cathode  Angamos handles copper cathode shipments from Codelco’s
Chuquicamata, Gaby and Radomiro Tomic mines as well as some
supplies from  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ’s Escondida and Spence mines.
Codelco supported construction of the port a decade ago to
reduce its dependence on the port of Antofagasta.  China  is the largest consumer of Codelco’s copper,
accounting for about one-third of the company’s refined copper
sales. Copper futures for delivery in May advanced 1.2 percent
to settle at $3.4465 a pound at 1:13 p.m. on the Comex in New
York, the biggest gain since Feb. 1. Prices yesterday slid to
$3.388, the lowest for a most-active contract since Aug. 21.  The stoppage at Angamos in the city of Mejillones started a
day after Codelco’s workers declared their intention to go on
strike for a 24-hour period within the next 30 days to protest
the use of subcontractors in Chilean mines.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net ;
Matt Craze in Santiago at 
 mcraze@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  