-- Croat GDP Falls for Fifth Quarter as Consumption Falters
-- B y   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c
-- 2013-03-20T09:59:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/croat-gdp-falls-for-fifth-quarter-as-consumption-falters.html
Croatia’s economy contracted for a
fifth quarter as household consumption, investment and
industrial production continued to decline amid  Europe ’s
sovereign debt crisis.  Gross domestic product shrank 2.3 percent in the fourth
quarter from a year earlier, the  statistics office  in Zagreb
said today, confirming a preliminary estimate from Feb. 28. The
economy shrank 2 percent last year, after stagnating in 2011 and
contracting in the two years before that.  The Adriatic nation, which is preparing to become the
European Union’s 28th member on July 1, is struggling to emerge
from a recession. Industrial output declined 3.4 percent in
January from a year ago, while retail trade in the same month
fell 5.3 percent, according to a preliminary report.  “There are no surprises in this contraction, as personal
consumption has continued its rapid decline, along with a fall
in state consumption and  capital investment ,” Zdeslav Santic,
the chief economist at Soc-Gen Splitska Banka d.d., said by
phone before the release.  Household consumption declined 4.2 percent from a year
earlier in the fourth quarter, while government consumption
dropped 2 percent and gross fixed capital formation fell 4.9
percent, the statistics office said.  Forecast Lowered  Croatia reduced its 2013 GDP forecast on Feb. 20 to 0.7
percent growth, from an earlier estimate of 1.8 percent, citing
an investment drought.  The former Yugoslav republic stands to receive 20 billion
euros ($25.8 billion) in EU funds through 2020. Finance Minister
Slavko Linic said he wants to use the funds to increase
competitiveness in the private sector and overhaul
infrastructure and the education and health systems.  The  International Monetary Fund  said on Jan. 21 that
 Croatia ’s economy will stagnate this year. It urged the
government to remove barriers to investment and employment in
order to return to growth. The  European Commission  said Feb. 22
that the economy will contract 0.4 percent this year, before
returning to “modest growth” in 2014.  The economic decline will be softened in the first quarter
this year as Easter holidays in March are expected to support
consumption, Santic said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmina Kuzmanovic in Zagreb at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  