-- Cyprus Highlights Need to Tighten Bank Rules, Norway PM Says
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2013-03-20T11:29:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/cyprus-highlights-need-to-tighten-bank-rules-norway-pm-says.html
The turmoil engulfing Cyprus that
has rekindled  European debt crisis  concerns underscores  Norway ’s
push to tighten banking regulations, the Nordic nation’s prime
minister said.  “There are large differences between Cyprus and Norway,”
Jens Stoltenberg said today in an interview at parliament in
Oslo. “We have solid banks, we have a solid economy, but what
is happening in Cyprus is nonetheless a reminder how important
it is to have the banking sector in order.”  Norway is working on drafting legislation designed to
prevent a property bubble after  house prices  doubled since 2002
and private debt burdens swelled to a record. Lawmakers are
considering plans that include tripling risk weights assigned to
mortgage assets and capping reliance on covered bonds.  As the euro area grapples with a recession, Western
 Europe ’s largest oil exporter is struggling to avoid overheating
from petroleum wealth that’s inflating wages and the krone’s
exchange rate.  Cyprus’s economic woes have plunged the 17-nation euro area
back into a debt crisis that had shown signs of easing. The euro
sank as much as 0.9 percent against the dollar yesterday as
investors questioned the bloc’s ability to surface from its
turmoil. Cypriot lawmakers yesterday rejected a plan for a levy
on  bank deposits  that would have paid for part of a bailout.  “This reminds us that the financial crisis isn’t over,”
Stoltenberg said. “Cyprus is a small country with a small
economy but a large banking sector. We must hope that this has
limited contagion effects on the rest of Europe as it is a small
economy, but it creates new uncertainty.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 Jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  