-- Cyprus’s Four Options to Avoid Banking Collapse
-- B y   M e g a n   G r e e n e
-- 2013-03-20T16:04:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/cyprus-s-four-options-to-avoid-banking-collapse.html
The only thing worse than Cyprus
accepting the rotten bailout  program  that European policy makers
agreed on late last week was Cyprus rejecting it. Yesterday, the
parliament voted decisively against the terms of the bailout,
with 36 members opposing it, the ruling party abstaining and not
a single vote in favor.  Policy makers will have to come up with a new plan, and
they had better hope the European Central Bank buys them enough
time to do so before Cyprus’s financial system melts down.  A bank holiday was declared at least until tomorrow to
prevent panicked savers from withdrawing their deposits from
banks when they learned over the weekend that a levy may be
imposed on deposits as part of a bailout program.  If depositors were worried about losing their savings
before, they should be even more worried now. Last week, the ECB
threatened to cut off emergency liquidity assistance to Cyprus’s
two main banks in the absence of a bailout program. This would
result in the immediate collapse of both banks, and they would
default on their debt and most, if not all, of the 30 billion
euros ($39 billion) in deposits they hold.  Faced with a bank run and the collapse of its largest
financial institutions, Cyprus would only be able to rescue its
banks and its economy by printing money and leaving the euro.  Capital Controls  Luckily, this needn’t happen. A much more likely outcome is
that the ECB will first impose capital controls. The euro area
is founded on the principle of freedom of goods, labor and
capital, but Article 65 of the  Treaty  on the Functioning of the
European Union stipulates that capital controls are allowed when
“justified on grounds of public policy or public security.” We
have already seen capital controls this week in Cyprus, with the
bank holiday and transfers frozen.  Once banks reopen -- scheduled for tomorrow but probably
postponed until next week -- we can expect deposit flight from
Cypriot banks. A bank run is no problem as long as the ECB
continues to finance it by plugging the gap with continued
emergency liquidity assistance. After parliament’s rejection of
the bailout deal, the ECB announced yesterday that it would
offer Cyprus liquidity within “existing rules,” a strong
indication that it will back down from its earlier threat to
take the punch bowl away and shut down emergency funding to
banks.  Capital controls and the ECB’s emergency financing can buy
time for Cyprus, but the tiny island will still need at least 17
billion euros in bailout funding. So far, the 10 billion euros
that the International Monetary Fund, the European Union and the
ECB offered in the original deal are still on the table, but
Cyprus needs to find an additional 7 billion euros. There are
four potential sources.  The best option would be for the government to accept that
wealthy Russian depositors have already been well and truly
scared off from Cypriot banks, given developments over the past
few days, and impose a big enough levy on uninsured deposits to
avoid having to tax insured deposits. The government remains
stubbornly protective of the country’s status as a tax haven, so
this option seems unlikely, though not impossible.  Cyprus could try to piece together 7 billion euros from
other sources. The nation could force losses on unsecured senior
bank bondholders, but for the two biggest banks this would
generate less than 200 million euros in savings. Yesterday,
Mario Mavrides, a member of parliament, admitted the government
 was considering  raiding pension funds, as was done in Ireland to
help finance its bailout program. This would bring in less than
500 million euros.  Gas Reserves  Cyprus could also discount the net present value of future
revenue from gas reserves lying off its coast. These reserves
are notoriously difficult to value, and delays in establishing
the infrastructure to capture and transfer them are inevitable.  A third option would be for Cyprus to go back to the troika
of lenders -- the IMF, ECB and EU -- for more money. It would
probably reject such a request for the same reason it originally
did: A 17 billion-euro bailout would cause Cyprus’s public debt
burden to balloon to unsustainable levels, even more so now
because gross domestic product is set to contract further, given
deposit and capital flight.  The final option is for Cyprus to negotiate aid from
Russia. Finance Minister Michael Sarris traveled to Moscow
yesterday to meet with President Vladimir Putin. A plain vanilla
loan from Russia could cause the troika to withdraw their
support for Cyprus for the same reason the troika won’t offer
the extra funds themselves: It would make Cyprus’ debt
unsustainable. Russia could offer money in exchange for rights.
There has been speculation that  OAO Gazprom (GAZP)  may offer to
recapitalize Cyprus’s banks in exchange for ownership of gas
fields and factories near and on the island. The EU has opposed
Russia increasing its foothold in the region, but having botched
the original bailout deal so appallingly, euro-area policy
makers may have lost their right to have an opinion on this.  Cyprus’s path forward is highly uncertain, and even though
the island is tiny, it stands to set an important precedent in
the euro area. This goes not only for how policy makers
structure the bailout, but also for how Cyprus responds to it.
The government has surprised investors by being the first to
stand up to the troika of lenders by rejecting the proposed
bailout. I doubt it will be the last.  (Megan Greene is a Bloomberg View columnist and chief
economist at Maverick Intelligence. She is also a senior fellow
at the Atlantic Council. Follow her on Twitter at  @economistmeg .
The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Megan Greene at  megan@maverickintelligence.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Marc Champion at   mchampion7@bloomberg.net . 