-- Cyprus Contagion, Venezuela’s Dollar, Fannie: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-03-20T12:52:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/cyprus-contagion-venezuela-s-dollar-fannie-compliance.html
Cyprus’s parliament rejected an
unprecedented levy on bank deposits, dealing a blow to European
plans to force savers to shoulder part of the country’s bailout
in a standoff that risks renewed tumult in the euro area.  Cypriot legislators in the capital Nicosia voted 36 against
the proposal with none in favor in a show of hands yesterday.
There were 19 abstentions. Hammered out by euro-area finance
chiefs over the weekend, the deal had sought to raise 5.8
billion euros ($7.5 billion) by drawing funds from Cyprus bank
accounts in return for 10 billion euros in international aid.  European policy makers are weighing how far to push Cyprus
after lawmakers in the Mediterranean nation rejected the
unprecedented levy, throwing into limbo a rescue package
designed to keep it in the euro.  Stocks and the euro gained as investors speculated that the
 European Central Bank , whose Governing Council meets today in
Frankfurt, will continue to support the country’s banks.
Luxembourg Finance Minister Luc Frieden called for the 17 euro
finance ministers to reconvene as soon as possible to forge a
new bailout.  While Cyprus accounts for less than half a percent of the
17-nation euro economy, European officials including Dutch
Finance Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem said that Cyprus must
contribute to its own bailout, while stressing that the Cyprus
situation is unique.  For more, click here, and click here, and click here.  The euro will depreciate, just not because of Cyprus,
according to Morgan Stanley, a self-described long-term bear on
Europe’s common currency.  As the proposed levy threatened to undermine Europe’s
banking system, strategists at Morgan Stanley, who expect the
17-nation currency will fall to $1.17 over time, said they see
the prospects for a rebound.  The pledge by European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi 
in July to do whatever it takes to preserve the currency union
is still reverberating through financial markets, underpinning
the euro and the region’s fixed-income markets. Draghi said this
month that his untapped bond-buying program, known as Outright
Monetary Transactions, remains an “effective” backstop.  The sluggish pace of global growth means major central
banks around the world are extending their five-year-old
monetary easing into a third round after they beat back
recession and financial crisis. The ECB kept  interest rates 
unchanged at a record-low 0.75 percent when policy makers met
March 7, with Draghi noting at his press conference that some
officials discussed cutting borrowing costs.  Stress in European funding markets has eased as Draghi’s
efforts have reduced speculation that the euro bloc will break
up, according to the Bloomberg Financial Conditions Monitor.  For more, click here and see Interviews, below.  Compliance Policy  DeMarco Calls for New Push on Reform as Fannie Profits Return  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac (FMCC) , the two government-seized
mortgage financiers, appear increasingly likely to pay billions
of dollars to the U.S. Treasury, focusing attention in
Washington on what should replace them.  Edward J. DeMarco, the acting regulator of the two
companies, was scheduled to appear before the House Financial
Services Committee yesterday to urge lawmakers to reduce or
eliminate the  mortgage market ’s reliance on taxpayers. At the
same time, a Senate panel was scheduled to hear testimony from
the authors of an alternate plan for housing-finance reform
issued in February by an independent commission.  Washington-based  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and McLean, Virginia-based
Freddie Mac have been under U.S. conservatorship since 2008 and
have drawn nearly $190 billion in taxpayer aid to stay afloat
during that time. Lawmakers who don’t want the companies to
return to their previous government-sponsored status are
becoming concerned that political momentum for winding down and
replacing them could erode as the housing market rebounds and
profits soar.  Fannie Mae, in a regulatory filing on March 14, raised the
possibility that it could soon be required to send as much as
$62 billion to the U.S. Treasury because, once it is profitable,
it may have to start counting potential tax credits as part of
its net worth. The company said it would delay filing its
earnings report for the quarter ended Dec. 31 while it studies
the accounting issue.  Regardless of the outcome, Fannie Mae said it still expects
to report “significant net income” for the quarter.  For more, click here.  Coba Project Abandons Plan to Oversee European Consolidated Tape  Coba Project Ltd. has abandoned its attempt to administer a
consolidated tape for European share prices because of
“insufficient support” from banks, fund managers, data
providers and stock exchanges.  Consolidated tape lacks support from the institutions
needed to make it happen, according to Graham Dick, the former
head of business development at Chi-X Europe Ltd., and Mark
Schaedel, the former global head of market data at  NYSE
Euronext (NYX) , who started the Coba Project.  FIX Protocol Ltd.,  the London-based organization that owns
the global-messaging format for financial trading, published a
set of guidelines in November for how trade reports and market
data should be consolidated to improve price transparency for
European equities. Days later, Dick and Schaedel established the
 Coba Project  as their plan to implement the FIX proposals,
setting out the costs and how to share revenue from the model.  Incumbent exchanges continue to provide the reference price
for stocks listed on their markets, prompting calls for a
consolidated tape that calculates prices from all the trading
venues where equities are traded.  The European Commission is working on an update to its
Markets in Financial Instruments Directive, or Mifid. It wants
to make a data feed that shows the price, volume and location of
individual stock trades.  Compliance Action  Banks Cut Basel III Shortfall by $215 Billion in Mid-2012  The largest global banks increased their core reserves by
about 166 billion euros ($215 billion) during the first half of
last year, regulators said.  The world’s 101 biggest banks would have needed an extra
208.2 billion euros to meet so-called Basel III capital rules
had the standards been enforced in June 2012, the Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision said today in a statement,
compared with a 374 billion-euro deficit at the end of 2011.  Lenders made headway toward meeting their Basel
obligations, while the U.S. and European Union struggled to meet
a January deadline to start implementing the Basel III accord.
The measures -- scheduled to be fully in force by 2019 -- will
more than triple the core capital that lenders must hold to at
least 7 percent of their assets, weighted for risk.  Global rulemakers have clashed with lenders over the
severity of the capital and liquidity rules, which were set out
in 2010 as part of an overhaul of banking regulation in the wake
of the financial crisis that followed the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.  For more, click here.  Venezuela to Announce Complementary Foreign Exchange System  Venezuela, aiming to close the gap between official and
black-market exchange rates, said it will announce details of a
“complementary” currency system for dollar purchases
yesterday.  The system, to be known as Sicad, will run alongside the
existing Cadivi system used to supply dollars for the purchase
of essential imports, acting President  Nicolas Maduro  said March
18 on state television. The Cadivi system offers a dollar for
6.3 bolivars, compared with 23.5 bolivars on the black, or
parallel, market.  Before his death from cancer on March 5, former President
 Hugo Chavez  in February approved a 32 percent devaluation of the
bolivar on the Cadivi system and shut down a central bank-
administered currency market known as Sitme. That decision has
left the market short of dollars, pushing down the bolivar on
the black market.  The new Sicad system will be administered by the Finance
Ministry’s foreign currency board, led by Finance Minister  Jorge
Giordani , and will be used for “special cases,” Maduro said,
without elaborating. The new system will begin operating March
25.  The South American country will also announce new price
controls, Maduro said, without providing details.  Maduro blamed the parallel dollar on the “corrupt right
wing and a parasitic bourgeoisie betting” on the economy’s
destabilization.  For more, click here.  U.K. Banks Urge Government to Broaden Scope of Lending Program  U.K. banks are urging the government to broaden the Bank of
England’s Funding for Lending Scheme to include more collateral
and additional companies to increase credit.  The program, introduced last August, could allow access to
regulated firms and those whose parent companies have banking
licenses,  British Bankers’ Association  Chief Executive Officer
Anthony Browne wrote in a letter March 18 to U.K. Business
Secretary  Vince Cable  obtained by  Bloomberg News . Cable had
asked for ways to enhance the plan in a meeting with the BBA on
March 13, according to the letter.  Under the program, banks have been able to borrow treasury
bills from the central bank to fund lending and have 18 months
to use the facility and as long as four years to repay. Only
banks with access to the discount-window facility can use the
program, which accepts the same collateral. The flow of net
lending shrank by 2.4 billion pounds ($3.6 billion) in the
fourth quarter, and Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  said on
March 6 that results from the plan were “disappointing.”  Some of the funding could be allocated to Capital for
Enterprise Ltd., a government-owned fund management company, or
other government programs such as the Business Finance
Partnership and Business Bank, the BBA said.  Courts  Former Oregon Governor Candidate Charged in Facebook Share Scam  Craig Berkman, who once ran for governor of Oregon, was
arrested and charged with securities fraud for selling interests
in non-existent pre-IPO shares of  Facebook Inc. (FB)  to investors.  Berkman, 71, was arrested yesterday at his home in Odessa,
Florida, and charged by federal prosecutors in New York with
making at least $8 million in two separate schemes, Manhattan
U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara said in a statement yesterday.  Berkman is charged with two counts of securities fraud and
two counts of wire fraud. Each of the counts carries a maximum
sentence of 20 years in prison, according to Bharara.  Berkman appeared in federal court in Tampa yesterday, where
U.S. Magistrate Judge Thomas G. Wilson set a bail hearing for
March 21, according to court records. Adam Allen, a federal
public defender who represented Berkman in the Tampa court
appearance, didn’t immediately return a voice-mail message
yesterday seeking comment on the charges.  Prosecutors claim that in 2010, Berkman set up a company
called Ventures Trust II LLC, telling investors it held shares
in Facebook, the world’s biggest social network, which was then
privately held. In reality, the fund held only a small, indirect
investment in Facebook through another investment fund,
according to a criminal complaint against Berkman that was
unsealed yesterday. Berkman used Ventures Trust II to
fraudulently raise $5.5 million from investors, prosecutors
said.  Berkman, a Republican, ran for governor of Oregon in 1994.
He lost his party’s primary election.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Berkman, 13-mj-00732, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan). The
SEC proceeding is Matter of Craig Berkman d/b/a Ventures Trust
LLC, 3-15249, U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
(Washington).  Interviews  Jain Sees Europe Banks at Risk of Regulatory Arbitrage  Anshu Jain, co-chief executive officer of Deutsche Bank AG,
discussed the Cyprus deposit levy, the U.S. economy and bank
capital rules.  He spoke at the  Frankfurt Finance Summit .  For the video, click here.  Luxembourg’s Frieden Says Cyprus Levy a Unique Solution  Luxembourg Finance Minister Luc Frieden talked about a
proposed unprecedented levy on Cyprus bank deposits to help fund
the island’s bailout.  He spoke with  David Tweed  on Bloomberg Television’s
“Market Makers.”  For the video, click here.  Comings and Goings  U.S. Senate Banking Panel Approves White, Cordray  The U.S. Senate Banking Committee approved the nominations
of Mary Jo White to lead the Securities and Exchange Commission
on a bipartisan vote, and  Richard Cordray  to head the Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau in a party-line vote that reflected
the remaining obstacle to his confirmation effort.  Yesterday’s 12-10 vote on Cordray, 53, saw all of the
panel’s Democrats back him, while Republicans unanimously
opposed him.  President  Barack Obama ’s second nomination of Cordray, the
former Ohio attorney general can’t be confirmed unless Senate
Republicans and Democrats can overcome a deadlock that has
prevented a full-Senate vote.  Cordray’s nomination has been mired since 2011 in a dispute
among Republicans over the structure and funding of the agency.
Democrats insist the issues were settled by Congress when it
passed the Dodd-Frank law in 2010.  Obama nominated Cordray to a five-year term on Jan. 24,
more than a year after installing the former Ohio attorney
general in the position using a so-called recess appointment.
The Republicans’ position hardened after a federal court ruling
raised questions on the validity of the recess appointment.  Separately, the committee voted 21-1 to send White’s
nomination to the full Senate with unanimous support from the
Republican members.  Sherrod Brown , an Ohio Democrat, was the
sole dissenter.  The full Senate probably will vote this week on the
appointment of White, 65, according to a Senate aide who
requested anonymity because the schedule hasn’t been set.  U.S. Fed’s Tarullo Appointed Chairman of FSB Regulation Group  U.S. Federal Reserve Governor  Daniel Tarullo  was appointed
chairman of the  Financial Stability Board ’s standing committee
on supervisory and regulatory cooperation, the FSB said in an e-
mailed statement.  Tarullo replaces  Adair Turner , chairman of the U.K.
Financial Services Authority, in the role, according to the
statement.  The FSB is an international body that coordinates national
work of financial authorities and international standard-setting
bodies.  Republican U.S. Senate Economist Said to Be Vetted for SEC  Michael Piwowar, the chief Republican economist for the
U.S. Senate Banking Committee, is being vetted for an
appointment to the Securities and Exchange Commission when a
slot opens later this year, according to four people briefed on
the matter.  Piwowar would be nominated for the seat held by Republican
Commissioner Troy Paredes, whose term ends in June, according to
the people, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the
discussions aren’t public.  If Piwowar were nominated and confirmed he would be the
only economist on a five-member commission that historically is
made up of lawyers.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 