-- Cyprus Pilots an ‘Exodus’ Without Paul Newman
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 2013-03-20T15:30:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/cyprus-pilots-an-exodus-without-paul-newman.html
Mention the tiny island-nation of
Cyprus, and the first thing that comes to my mind is  Paul Newman 
and “ Exodus .” In the 1960 film of Leon Uris’s novel, Newman
stars as Zionist leader Ari Ben Canaan, who goes to Cyprus in
1947 to rescue Jewish refugees being held in British internment
camps.  All it takes is a borrowed ship, a few forged signatures, a
hunger strike, and a threat to blow up the vessel and everyone
on it to persuade the British to allow the renamed “Exodus” to
set sail for  Palestine .  Today’s plot involving Cyprus is more complicated. Any
resolution will be less uplifting. And the heroes, if there are
any, have yet to emerge.  The Story So Far: As a precondition for a 10 billion-euro
($13 billion)  bailout  of its financial system, Cyprus was told
by euro-zone finance ministers, the  International Monetary Fund 
and the  European Central Bank  that it had to contribute 5.8
billion euros by levying a tax on  bank deposits : insured and
uninsured, at sick and well-capitalized banks.  The Cypriot parliament on Tuesday rejected the “solidarity
levy” -- the only solidarity was the opposition to it --
sending the parties back to the drawing board and newly elected
Cyprus President Nicos Anastasiades looking for alternative
financing, perhaps from  Russia   Without a capital infusion, Cyprus’s two largest banks will
collapse, destabilizing the financial system and presaging an
early exit from the 17-member euro area. Oh, and that guarantee
of  deposit insurance  on accounts up to 100,000 euros? Sorry.  The Issues: Why the authorities decided that when it comes
to Cyprus, the last (depositors) will be first, and the first
not at all, is anybody’s guess. Although it’s true that Cyprus’s
banks are largely deposit-funded, why not give the bailout a
patina of respectability by making the senior bondholders take a
hit? That’s standard when it comes to resolving insolvent
financial institutions.  Instead,  Europe ’s leaders chose an arbitrary policy that
sets a bad precedent and carries a scary message: Your deposits
aren’t safe. The state can confiscate them anytime it wants.
Even the Russians, who excel at seizing entire fortunes and
portfolios of companies, are  up in arms .  The Politics: Facing parliamentary elections in September
and pressure from both sides, German  Chancellor Angela Merkel 
was in no position to offer up bailout-weary taxpayers as
sacrificial lambs. Because Cyprus is reputed to be a haven for
Russian  money laundering , supporting a deposit tax enabled Frau
Merkel to strut her populist credentials by sticking it to
Russian oligarchs.  Anastasiades didn’t want to jeopardize Russia’s 2.5
billion-euro line of credit by forcing large depositors to
absorb the entire hit. The initial plan had the government
imposing a tax of 6.75 percent on all bank deposits of less than
100,000 euros -- the deposit-insurance limit -- and 9.9 percent
on larger accounts.  What’s more, Russian banks have loans to Cypriot companies,
which may be fronts for Russian companies. Lastly, Russian
energy giant OAO Gazprom  reportedly offered  to prop up Cyprus’s
banks in exchange for natural-gas exploration rights. Oh, what a
tangled web we weave.  The Implications: Cyprus is a  small country . It is three-
fifths the size of the state of  Connecticut  with a population of
1.1 million, annual output of $23.6 billion (less than 0.2
percent of the euro-zone economy) and a banking system more than
eight times the size. What happens in Cyprus isn’t supposed to
affect the entire euro zone. Instead, events of the past week
may turn out to be a bigger deal than the country’s size alone
would suggest.  First, the decision to tax depositors represents a
confiscation of private property. If a country is willing to
cross that line once, the second time is a lot easier.  Second, violating a guarantee of deposit insurance in one
country creates anxiety in others and undermines efforts to
institute uniform banking practices across the euro area. It’s
puzzling why depositors in countries such as Spain and  Italy 
aren’t aggressively withdrawing money from their accounts. For
the small price of 17.57 euros a person, European leaders could
have raised the same amount of money and preserved the sanctity
of deposit insurance, according to  Carl Weinberg , chief
economist at High Frequency Economics in Valhalla,  New York .  Third, the decisions taken by European governments this week
may hasten the single currency’s demise. They are using what
amounts to “blackmail to confiscate deposits,” said  Athanasios Orphanides , a former governor of the Central Bank of Cyprus.
“What we are witnessing is the slow death of the European
project.”  Which brings us to the real issue: The European monetary
union was never a real union. Nor does it seem to be moving in
that direction. Yes, these 17 countries share a common currency,
a common market and common rules. They even give voice to a
common purpose. But people still think of themselves as German
or French or Cypriot first, not European.  Their actions are at odds, as well. Despite Europe’s social
democratic foundation, decisions are still made by governments
(in general,  Germany ’s) on the basis of what’s good for the
nation-state, not the whole.  Banks in Cyprus  remain closed until the authorities can
arrange for security to deal with an onslaught of angry
depositors. A mass exodus would be no surprise, even without
Paul Newman.  ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Caroline Baum in New York at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  