-- Cyprus Won’t Set Precedent for EU Banks, Denmark’s Rohde Says
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2013-03-20T12:21:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/cyprus-won-t-set-precedent-for-eu-banks-denmark-s-rohde-says.html
Cyprus’s economic plight is unique
and  Europe ’s proposed terms to pave the way for a bailout won’t
be copied elsewhere in the region, said Lars Rohde, the governor
of  Denmark ’s central bank.  The turmoil has reignited Europe’s debt woes, which had
shown signs of easing until this month. A proposed levy on  bank
deposits  was rejected late yesterday by the Cypriot parliament,
testing Europe’s crisis handling skills as bailout talks stall.  “Cyprus won’t impact the euro area, or Denmark,” Rohde
said in an interview in Copenhagen today. “Obviously, it has
led to considerations about how things will be done in other
troubled nations, but Cyprus is a very special case, and there
is no desire, or intention, to copy what is being done for
Cyprus elsewhere.”  The turmoil rekindled demand for the safest assets earlier
this week, as investors questioned Europe’s ability to extricate
itself from the crisis. The central bank of Denmark, which pegs
the krone to the euro, needed to resort to an unprecedented
 negative deposit rate  last year to counter a capital influx into
its AAA rated securities.  In a normal economic cycle, “there’s a lower limit to how
close the spread between Denmark and Germany can go, which is
linked to liquidity,” Rohde said, citing a central bank survey
published today. “Our situation has been very special in recent
years, almost Swiss-like, as some investors in  Asia  and the U.S.
looked for something safe that isn’t denominated in euros.”  First Bail-In  Denmark, which enjoys a stable AAA grade at Moody’s
Investors Service, Standard & Poor’s and  Fitch Ratings , emerged
last year as a haven from the debt crisis in southern Europe.
Though the nation is struggling to surface from a burst housing
bubble and regional banking crisis, its government debt load is
less than half the euro zone’s average, the European Commission
estimates.  Denmark in 2011 became the first nation in the EU to bail
in bank depositors, when it forced some Amagerbanken A/S savers
and senior creditors to share losses. Though the move only
affected depositors holding more than the EU’s 100,000 euro
($129,000) insurance limit, it still left its mark on Denmark’s
bank system, Rohde said.  “It wasn’t free for Danish banks that depositors had to
pay up, as it changed how rating agencies appreciate systemic
support,” Rohde said. “Still, it was the right thing to do, as
deposits or other instruments like senior debts must be used to
cover losses if the equity isn’t enough.”  ‘Special Case’  Protesters cheered outside the Cypriot parliament in Nicosia
last night as 36 lawmakers rejected the proposal to levy
deposits, with 19 abstentions. There were no votes in favor. The
bill exempted deposits of as much as 20,000 euros, imposed a
6.75 percent levy on amounts between 20,001 and 100,000 euros,
and taxed deposits exceeding 100,000 euros at 9.9 percent.  Germany  and its euro-area allies maintained pressure on
Cyprus’s politicians today to raise a planned 5.8 billion euros
by drawing funds from bank accounts in return for 10 billion
euros in external aid.  Luxembourg Finance Minister Luc Frieden has called for the
17 euro finance minister to reconvene as soon as possible to
discuss new bailout terms. Meanwhile, Cyprus is in talks with
 Russia  on possible financial assistance, Cypriot Finance
Minister Michael Sarris said after a meeting with his Russian
counterpart, Anton Siluanov. Russian companies and individuals
have $31 billion of deposits in Cyprus.  “Cyprus is a very special case,” Rohde said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  