-- Denmark Rejects Mortgage Banks’ Plan to Split Troubled Loans
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2013-03-20T12:31:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/denmark-rejects-mortgage-banks-plan-to-split-troubled-loans-1-.html
Denmark  rejected a plan by mortgage
banks to split troubled loans, forcing the industry back to the
drawing board to figure out how to save borrowers who can’t
afford to start amortizing interest-only debt this year.  The Business Ministry in Copenhagen said the plan would
breach the law by weakening collateral, putting the entire
system at risk and driving up  interest rates , said Karsten Beltoft, head of the Mortgage Bankers’ Federation.  The decision follows talks late yesterday between the
government and  mortgage  industry representatives on how to treat
borrowers who won’t be able to afford the interest-only loans
they took out a decade ago once amortization requirements kick
in this year. Borrowers are also struggling as a deepening
property slump drives  house prices  down to 2005 levels.  “The ministry said it doesn’t agree that the model we have
suggested is within the law,” Beltoft said today in a phone
interview. “It is a disappointment. We suggested the model
because we thought it was a good one. Now we have to look for
alternatives.”  Since the nation’s housing bubble burst in 2008, borrowers
have seen their property values sink more than 20 percent,
making them more reliant on debt terms that have freed them of
the obligation to pay down their principal. More than 100,000
households may need to have special terms negotiated, according
to a February study by the University of Southern Denmark.  Loan Amortization  The mortgage industry wanted the government to approve a
plan that would allow homeowners to treat their property debt as
two separate loans. The move would give lenders the freedom to
let borrowers roll over debt within an 80 percent loan-to-value
threshold into new interest-only loans. Only debt exceeding that
limit would be amortized. Without the proposed change, borrowers
would need to start amortizing the whole amount.  The government rejected the plan for fear it would reduce
confidence in Denmark’s mortgage system, Beltoft said.  “They’re afraid for the security of the system,” he said.
“They think the collateral will be weakened by this model, and
it’s written in the law that you cannot weaken the value of the
collateral.”  Danish mortgage banks aren’t allowed to grant loans that
exceed 80 percent of a property’s value. Any shortfall caused by
house price declines is filled by the banks, which must provide
extra collateral to maintain their credit ratings.  Don’t Tinker  Danish central bank Governor Lars Rohde today supported the
government in its rejection of the plan. It is “important” not
to tinker with the mortgage legislation, Rohde said at a press
conference in Copenhagen.  House price declines have forced Danish mortgage banks to
provide 131 billion kroner ($23 billion) in supplementary
collateral since 2007 to meet regulatory requirements and
another 107 billion kroner to meet investor demands, the
Financial Supervisory Authority said in December.  The provisions have supported AAA credit ratings for
Denmark’s mortgage-backed covered bonds, helping push yields
down to record lows last year as investors fled  Europe ’s debt
crisis in search of safer assets.  The Nykredit index of the mortgage market’s most-traded
bonds hit a record high yesterday after negotiations over a
rescue package for Cyprus faltered, casting doubts on Europe’s
ability to prevent its debt crisis from igniting again and
raising the appeal of haven assets. The index rose to 405.32 at
close yesterday in Copenhagen.  ‘It’s Essential’  “We agree that it’s essential to have certainty about the
system,” Beltoft said. “Where we disagree is what this would
mean for the mortgage system.”  “We will continue the dialogue with the ministry about an
alternative,” he said. “We know that more people in the years
to come will have a loan-to-value ratio above 80 percent and,
depending on the economic situation, we might see more people
coming into problems.”  Eighty percent of borrowers under 35 years of age are
already in trouble, while half of borrowers between 35 and 45
are “under water,” Curt Liliegreen, head of the Center for
Housing Economics in Copenhagen, said by phone this week.  While most families have “robust finances,” those with
interest-only loans often have lower savings, take out larger
mortgages and “do not compensate for this by otherwise saving
up,” the Danish central bank said in a December report. Ten
percent will be unable to repay their debt over the remaining 20
years of the loan, it said.  The government yesterday cut its 2013 economic growth
forecast to 0.5 percent to 1 percent. It had previously forecast
1.2 percent growth. The economy contracted 0.6 percent last
year, its worst performance since 2009.  “The housing market is still having a rough time,”  Steen Bocian , chief economist at Danske Bank A/S, said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  