-- Dollar Remains Lower as Fed Says Economy Still Warrant Stimulus
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-03-20T18:16:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/dollar-remains-lower-as-fed-says-economy-still-warrant-stimulus.html
The dollar remained lower against
the euro after the  Federal Reserve  signaled gains in employment
aren’t yet sufficient for policy makers to move closer to
reducing stimulus measures.  The Fed said the nation’s  unemployment rate  will hit the
central bank’s threshold for raising  interest rates  sometime in
2015. The Fed under Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will continue
buying $85 billion of bond per month, known as quantitative
easing, or QE, as it seeks to reduce the  unemployment  rate that
hasn’t fallen below 7 percent since November 2008. The euro
strengthened from a four-month low against the dollar as Cyprus
sought alternatives to the European Union plan to help the
nation avoid a banking collapse.  “I don’t see anything in the statement that would talk
about any difference for QE,” said Dan Dorrow, the head of
research at Faros Trading LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said in
a telephone interview. “We’ll get the nuances for that in the
press conference.”  The dollar fell 0.6 percent to $1.2958 as of 2:04 p.m. in
 New York . It strengthened 0.4 percent to 95.52 yen.  The dollar reached $1.3587 per euro on Jan. 30, the weakest
since November 2011, after the previous central bank meeting
when policy makers said would continue bond purchases and
retained the federal-funds-rate target of zero to 0.25 percent,
where it has held since December 2008.  Bernanke Briefs  Bernanke, starting today, will cut the time between the
release of post-meeting statements by the  Federal Open Market
Committee  and his news briefings, giving investors less
opportunity to misperceive the Fed’s intent.  In recent presentations, he has pledged to sustain easing,
defending monthly bond purchases during congressional testimony
last month and warning that “premature removal of
accommodation” may weaken the expansion. The Fed is targeting a
reduction of the jobless rate to 6.5 percent while keeping
inflation to 2.5 percent.  The  U.S. economy  is forecast to expand 1.9 percent this
year, according to the median estimate of 93 economist surveyed
by Bloomberg. That’s up from 1.8 percent according to the
February survey.  Cyprus hasn’t reached any deal with Russian investors for
the sale of Cyprus Popular Bank Plc, government spokesman
Christos Stylianides said in a telephone interview in Nicosia
today. A preliminary deal to sell the bank to Russian investors
was reached, Kathimerini Cyprus reported earlier, without citing
anyone.  EU Stance  The European Union stands ready to facilitate solutions on
Cyprus, the group said today in a statement. Luxembourg Finance
Minister Luc Frieden yesterday called for the 17 euro-area
finance ministers to reconvene “as soon as possible” to put
together a new package for the island nation.  “The ECB statement that they are going to provide more
liquidity means there is some time for renegotiation for Cyprus,
so that’s a positive,” said  Lutz Karpowitz , a senior foreign-
exchange strategist at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt . “As long as
there is still some room for further negotiations, the market is
relatively relaxed. If there is more and more impression that
there won’t be a solution, then there may be more weakness in
the euro.”  The euro may weaken to $1.25, the lowest since August, if
no solution for Cyprus is found, Karpowitz said.  Europe  will find a resolution for Cyprus, said Laurence D. Fink, chief executive officer of  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s
 largest  asset manager.  Market Size  “It’s not a really major economic issue,” Fink said in a
Bloomberg Television interview in Hong Kong. “It’s a $10
billion issue. It does remind us of the frailty of Europe. It
does remind us that the European fix will be multiple years.”  China’s  yuan  rose to a 19-year high against the dollar
after the central bank set the currency’s reference rate at the
strongest level since Jan. 15 amid U.S. Treasury Secretary Jacob L. Lew’s visit to Beijing for talks.  The yuan appreciated to 6.2113, the strongest level since
the government unified the official and market rates at the end
of 1993. China limits the currency’s movement to 1 percent on
either side of the daily fixing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  