-- Dominicans Top Puerto Rico for World Baseball Classic Title
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2013-03-20T06:38:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/dominicans-beat-puerto-rico-to-take-world-baseball-classic-title.html
The Dominican Republic completed
its perfect run through the World Baseball Classic with a 3-0
win against Puerto Rico in the championship game.  Edwin Encarnacion of the  Toronto Blue Jays  had a two-run
double in the first inning and Erick Aybar of the Los Angeles
Angels had a run-scoring double in the fifth last night at AT&T
Park, home of  Major League Baseball ’s San Francisco Giants.  Jose Reyes  of the Blue Jays doubled and tripled for the
winners, who held Puerto Rico to three hits to finish 8-0 in the
third edition of the international tournament. Japan won the
first two titles.  “This is an unforgettable moment,” said Reyes, 29, who
played for the  New York  Mets from 2003 to 2011. “This is one of
the greatest moments of my career.”  Reyes and several teammates now will return to their MLB
teams to continue spring training workouts before the regular
season begins in less than two weeks.  Robinson Cano of the  New York Yankees  was selected as the
tournament’s Most Valuable Player after hitting .469 for the
Dominican Republic.  “Tonight we’re going to celebrate, tomorrow we’re going to
celebrate and Thursday we’ll worry about spring training,”
Cano, 30, said in a news conference.  The stadium had a distinctly Latin flavor last night, with
most public address announcements in Spanish and anthems from
the two Caribbean finalists sharing pregame ceremonies with
“The Star Spangled Banner.”  Hits were celebrated with the banging of drums and the
blaring of air horns. Dominican and Puerto Rican bands played
between innings, trying to maintain enthusiasm in a crowd
thinned by a steady rain that started in the fourth inning.  The Dominicans reached the final by defeating the
Netherlands. Puerto Rico ousted defending champion Japan in the
other semifinal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in  San Francisco  at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  