-- DP World 2012 Profit Jumps on Asset Sales, Beats Estimates
-- B y   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i   a n d   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2013-03-20T07:16:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/dp-world-2012-profit-jumps-after-asset-sales-beats-estimates.html
DP World Ltd. (DPW)  posted a 21 percent
jump in full-year profit, beating estimates as the world’s
third-largest port operator sold assets to focus on growth in
emerging markets.  Net income attributable to shareholders rose to $555
million, or 90 cents a share, from $459 million last year or 82
cents a share, the Dubai-based company said  in a statement  to
Nasdaq Dubai today. The  mean estimate  of eight analysts was for
net income of $511 million, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Revenue climbed 5 percent to $3.1 billion.  DP World, which operates more than 60 terminals in six
continents, made $249 million from asset sales in  Australia ,
 Europe  and the Middle East. The company last month said it is
selling its stakes in two container terminals and a logistics
center in Hong Kong for $742 million as part of a reshuffle of
assets in favor of fast-growing  emerging markets .  “We have continued to actively manage our portfolio to
maximum advantage, divesting non-core or low-return assets, and
repaying debt,” Chairman Sultan Ahmed Bin Sulayem said in the
statement. “This has enabled us to move capital into those
markets where we see more profitable returns whilst
significantly reducing our leverage and strengthening our
capital base.”  ‘Uncertain Environment’  Gross container volumes rose 2 percent to 56 million
twenty-foot equivalent units during the year, while consolidated
throughput increased 1 percent to 27 million TEUs. The growth
was driven by operations in Africa, Middle East, South America
and Asia.  “Despite the strong bottom line performance, we remain
concerned about the near-term outlook given the tough start to
the year as current trading appears difficult,” Redwan Ahmed, a
Dubai-based analyst at investment bank EFG-Hermes Holding SAE,
said by e-mail today. “Following the recent disposal in Hong
Kong, DP World is underleveraged and we suspect the group could
be looking to acquire assets particularly in  Africa  and or Latin
America, where the growth prospects are attractive.”  DP World shares fell 0.6 percent to $14.02 at 10:47 a.m. in
Dubai, trimming their increase this year to 20 percent. The
company invested $685 million across its portfolio last year.
Some of its key developments, including its London Gateway
project, are on schedule to open later in 2013, it said.  Conditions so far this year are consistent with those at
the end of last year and the economic environment remains
“uncertain”, Chief Executive Officer Mohammed Sharaf said in
the statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stefania Bianchi in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net ;
Zainab Fattah in Dubai at 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  