-- Durbin Says Odds of Deficit Deal Less Than 50 Percent
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2013-03-20T15:09:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/durbin-says-odds-of-deficit-deal-less-than-50-percent.html
The odds of Congress passing a
comprehensive deficit-reduction package that includes more tax
revenue are less than 50 percent, the Senate’s second-ranking
Democrat said.  Illinois Senator  Dick Durbin  blamed Republican refusal to
consider raising more revenue for “stalling” progress toward
any agreement to trim long-term Medicare spending in exchange
for higher taxes.  As a result, odds for a deal “are less than 50 percent;
things could change for the better,” Durbin told reporters
today in  Washington  at a breakfast sponsored by the Wall Street
Journal.  About $1.2 trillion in automatic spending cuts began taking
effect March 1. Congress is voting this week on legislation to
keep the budget operating through September, and both houses
also plan to pass separate budget proposals.  Until Republicans agree to discuss using additional tax
revenue toward deficit reduction, President  Barack Obama  won’t
make more specific proposals to reduce long-term Medicare and
Medicaid costs, Durbin said.  “There has to be a negotiating position” in which
“everything is on the table, including revenue,” Durbin said.  Durbin said changing the formula for calculating cost-of-
living increases for Social Security recipients is a “real
possibility, if it’s created in the right way,” Durbin said.  Durbin, a member of Obama’s deficit-reduction commission,
said the president would be able to win Democratic support for
changes in entitlement programs if Republicans agree to more  tax
revenue .  “If the president ends up giving years of solvency to
Medicare and endorses it, many Democrats will come around” and
join Obama in selling it to voters, Durbin said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  