-- ECB Said Likely to Delay Vote on Emergency Cyprus Bank Lending
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2013-03-20T15:11:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/ecb-said-likely-to-delay-vote-on-emergency-cyprus-bank-lending.html
The European Central Bank is likely
to delay a decision on whether to continue to supply Cypriot
banks with emergency funds as it awaits clarity on the nation’s
bailout, two people familiar with the deliberations said.  The ECB assumes that a bank holiday in Cyprus will be
extended to the end of the week, and there is a public holiday
on the Mediterranean island on March 25, the people said on
condition of anonymity. That means policy makers don’t need to
vote on whether to extend or halt Emergency Liquidity Assistance
to Cypriot banks at their mid-month meeting in  Frankfurt , which
starts today and ends tomorrow, the people said.  The delay gives the Cypriot government and euro-area
finance ministers five more days to forge a deal to prevent the
implosion of the island’s banking sector. The ECB has no
interest in forcing a collapse before a political decision has
been taken, the people said.  Cypriot banks have relied on ELA funding from their own
central bank since they were cut off from regular ECB
refinancing operations in June following the downgrading of the
country’s credit rating by all three major rating firms to junk
status.  The ECB, which must sanction the ELA loans, agreed to a
two-month extension in January and was due to take another
decision on the issue at the mid-March meeting, one of the
people said.  The Cypriot parliament yesterday rejected a proposed levy
on bank deposits to raise 5.8 billion euros, which euro-area
finance ministers backed as a condition for the country’s
bailout.  While the ECB is showing a willingness to wait for
political developments, it has made clear that if those efforts
ultimately fail Cyprus can’t expect central bank funds to keep
flowing. Executive Board member Joerg Asmussen told Die Zeit
newspaper today that the ECB can “only provide emergency
liquidity to solvent banks.”  The solvency of Cypriot banks “can’t be considered a given
unless an aid package, which ensures a fast recapitalization of
the banking sector, is agreed soon,” Asmussen said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  