-- Ted Leonsis on Books, Margery Kraus, Gary Sinise in D.C.
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n
-- 2013-03-20T14:26:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/ted-leonsis-on-books-margery-kraus-gary-sinise-in-d-c-.html
Billionaire  Ted Leonsis , owner of
the Washington Wizards and Washington Capitals, said reading was
the key to his success.  At last night’s Everybody Wins! DC charity gala, where
Leonsis was the keynote speaker, the founder and chief executive
officer of Monumental Sports & Entertainment said his favorite
book as a child was “Thomas the Tank Engine” which taught him
to “never give up.”  Senator  Tom Harkin , Iowa Democrat, who is a longstanding
participant in the Everybody Wins! DC program, said he enjoyed
reading stories by Roald Dahl to youngsters.  General Dynamics Corp. (GD) ’s chief financial officer, Hugh Redd, who attended the Capital Hilton silent auction and dinner
with wife, Cindy, said they read “Quick as a Cricket” to their
grandchildren. The gala raised more $400,000.  ‘Lean In’  Margery Kraus, founder and CEO of APCO Worldwide Inc.,
praised “Lean In,” the new book by Facebook Chief Operating
Officer  Sheryl Sandberg , last night at the 16th annual “Salute
to Service: Statesmanship Awards Dinner.”  Kraus received the “Corporate Statesmanship Award” from
the U.S. Association of Former Members of Congress. Other
honorees at the Ritz-Carlton were former senators  Richard Lugar 
and Sam Nunn, and actor Gary Sinise.  Kraus said the book “crystalized thinking” about women in
the workforce, adding that she herself raised her children and
went to school while pursuing her career.  French Ambassador Francois Delattre, former  World Wrestling
Entertainment Inc. (WWE)  CEO Linda McMahon, and Congressman Doug Lamborn, the Colorado Republican, were among the other guests at
the event, which donated its floral centerpieces to the spouses
of wounded warriors.  Irish Poets  Senator  Kirsten Gillibrand  wore a Celtic pin given to her
by Irish Prime Minister  Enda Kenny  at the American Ireland
Fund’s 21st annual gala at the National Building Museum Monday
night.  Gillibrand and Senator Patrick Toomey, Pennsylvania
Republican, received the Leadership Award from the fund, which
raises money and awareness for a variety of Irish charities and
cultural institutions as part of the  Ireland Funds .  During the cocktail reception, Kenny posed for photographs
with everyone from Senator Patrick Leahy, the Vermont Democrat,
to Maryland Governor Martin O’Malley.  The prime minister addressed Ireland’s rallying economy
during the steak dinner. “We’re not the comeback kid yet, but
we’re coming back.”  Other guests included the Irish Foreign Minister  Eamon
Gilmore , Theresa Villiers, secretary of state for Northern
Ireland, Congressman Jim McGovern, Massachusetts Democrat, and
Senator Robert Casey, Jr., Pennsylvania Democrat.  John Feehery, the president of Quinn Gillespie
Communications and director of QGA government affairs, traded
favorite Yeats poems with Joseph Hassett, a lawyer with Hogan
Lovells.  “Every Irishman is a poet,” Kenny said.  (Stephanie Green is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Ryan Sutton  and  Richard Vines 
on dining.  To contact the writer on this story:
Stephanie Green in Washington at  sgreen57@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @stephlgreen.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 