-- Leeds Owner Plans to Sell Soccer Team Months After Purchase
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-03-20T19:32:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/leeds-owner-gfh-plans-to-sell-soccer-team-months-after-purchase.html
A Gulf investment group that bought
three-time English soccer champion Leeds United in December
wants to sell the team by the end of the year, according to the
company’s year-end accounts.  Bahraini bank  Gulf Finance House EC (GFH)  said its Dubai-based
subsidiary GFH Capital paid $33 million for the Yorkshire-based
team, and says it is worth $10 million more than that. GFH said
it made a “bargain purchase” because of “pressure on the
sellers to exit their holdings due to change in their business
plan.”  Leeds had success a decade ago, qualifying for Europe’s
elite Champions League and producing international players
including Jonathan Woodgate, Harry Kewell and Alan Smith from
its academy. The team stumbled into financial troubles by
spending too much on players, and slipped out of England’s
Premier League in 2004. Leeds, after falling into the third
division and entering bankruptcy protection, now plays in the
second-tier Championship.  “The group has an active plan to sell its stake in LUFC
Holdings Limited, and accordingly, the asset and liabilities
acquired were classified as held-for-sale and presented in the
consolidated statement of financial position,” GFH said in its
statement for the year ending Dec. 31. “Subsequent to the year
end, the group has commenced negotiations relating to the sale
of its stake.”  Later today GFH Capital released a statement on Leeds’s
 website , saying it was looking “for investment in part of its
share, not its entirety.” Club spokesman Paul Dews declined to
say why the parent company and its subsidiary had differing
positions. GFH Capital said it had invested 10 million pounds
into Leeds, according to the website statement.  ‘Prime Position’  In November, GFH Capital Deputy Chief Executive Officer
David Haigh said the new owners were looking to the “future and
start the exciting journey to take Leeds United F.C. back into
prime position in English football.”  Speculation about the future ownership of Leeds, which won
its last English championship in the 1991-92 season, has grown
since February when GFH said it was looking for minority
investors to reduce its exposure. The company’s chief investor
Salem Patel declined to comment today when asked about the sale.  “These guys came in on the premise they were going to
build the club,” said Stephen Schechter, founder of London-
based investment bank Schechter & Co Ltd, which raised 60
million pounds ($91 million) of debt for Leeds when it was in
the Premier League. “But they don’t care about it. This is
short termism: You buy it, you flip it.”  Leeds was taken out of bankruptcy by former Chelsea owner
Ken Bates. He owned 73 percent of the team before selling to
GFH.  Leeds has a large fanbase and is the only team in the city,
Schechter said, putting the team in a good position to return to
the Premier League and stay up.  ‘Supporter Base’  “It’s a great team with a dyed-in-the wool supporter
base,” he said in a telephone interview. “It just requires
someone who cares for the team, not bottom feeders.”  Schechter helped raise funding for an expansion of  Leeds’ s
Elland Road stadium, with the increased capacity and better
facilities expecting to be used to increase ticket sales. The
money was instead spent on buying players, and when the team
failed to qualify for the Champions League in the 2001-02
season, it was unable to pay its debts.  Leeds’s plight raises questions about standards required of
owners in English soccer, Schechter said.  “This is one of the failures of the governance in English
football,” he said. “They don’t put their foot down on buyers
to make real commitment over the medium and long term. They must
demand a minimum commitment of three years.  Malcolm Clarke, chairman of the  Football Supporters
Federation , which represents soccer fans in England and Wales,
criticized GFH’s motives in buying Leeds. ‘‘That is a classic
example of all of the reservations that supporters have about
football clubs being regarded as a business like any other when
what we are talking about here are teams that are part of fabric
and lifeblood of local community,” Clarke said in a telephone
interview. “Leeds is one of our great iconic clubs with a proud
tradition that’s suffered more than most clubs from the behavior
of some of the people that have managed it.”  Leeds is 10th in the Championship, seven points away from a
place in the playoff positions, which would earn the team the
right to play for a spot in the  Premier League .  In May, the GFH investment bank, which specializes in
 Islamic finance , obtained permission from creditors to
restructure a $110 million debt. Its accounts showed profits of
$10 million in 2012 on sales of $63.6 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  