-- How Changes to Obamacare Can Cut the Deficit
-- B y   L a n h e e   C h e n
-- 2013-03-20T22:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/helping-obamacare-reduce-the-deficit.html
Republicans in  Washington  have
repeatedly called on President  Barack Obama  to make changes to
the Affordable Care Act as a part of their efforts to deal with
long-term budget deficits. Although complete repeal of the law
is desirable, such an outcome is impossible in the near-term.  This raises two questions: Should changes to the law be
part of current budget negotiations? And, more important, what
form should these changes take?  The answer to the first question is yes. The law is a
budget-buster, adding almost $2 trillion in new spending over
the next 10 years. Calculations based on a  recent report  by the
nonpartisan Government Accountability Office show that the
Affordable Care Act could add $6.2 trillion to U.S. deficits
over the next 75 years. Many  liberal commentators  have  attacked 
this conclusion, in part because it came from Republican Senator
 Jeff Sessions , the ranking member of the Budget Committee.  It’s worth explaining, however, why the GAO report -- and
the accompanying calculations -- are fair assessments of the
law’s long-term fiscal impact.  Reasonable Assumptions  The calculations are based on what the GAO terms an
alternative fiscal simulation. This scenario predicts fiscal
impacts based on certain reasonable assumptions about the
future, such as the likelihood of certain cost-containment
measures coming to pass.  As written, for example,  the law cuts  Medicare payments to
physicians in such a draconian fashion that, in 2030, the
program would pay doctors 60 percent less than private health-
insurance plans. Given that Congress has acted to avert other,
similar reductions every year for the past decade, it is only
reasonable to expect that these cuts would be averted as well.
Drastically reduced Medicare and Medicaid payments to hospitals,
which the law also assumes, are similarly unlikely.  And the GAO report is hardly an outlier: It notes that
other nonpartisan sources, including the  Congressional Budget
Office , have questioned the assumption that the Affordable Care
Act’s cost-containment mechanisms are sustainable.  All this is cause for concern and a reason to overturn the
law. But let’s be realistic: Full repeal isn’t happening as long
as Democrats control the White House and Senate. So Republicans
should focus instead on deficit-reducing changes that Obama and
congressional Democrats might actually consider.  The two most expensive and most politically sensitive
elements of the Affordable Care Act are subsidies for the
purchase of health insurance ($1.2 trillion over the next 10
years) and funding for the expansion of Medicaid ($638 billion).
It is unrealistic to expect either of these to be eliminated,
but their cost could be reduced.  The law subsidizes the purchase of health insurance for
Americans earning up to 400 percent of the federal poverty
level. The benefit is means-tested -- that is, the poorest
Americans are eligible for the most help. The federal poverty
level for a family of four  is currently  $23,550, so the law
would provide subsidies to families with household incomes of
more than $94,000 a year. The president and Congress can
generate savings by trimming eligibility for the subsidies or
putting in place more aggressive means-testing.  Further savings can be had through recapture of any
overpayments of subsidies under the law. These overpayments may
occur because the subsidies are based on income from a previous
year, and a family’s income may rise after it gets a subsidy.
The House Ways and Means Committee has  already approved 
provisions requiring the federal government to collect this
money, and the president and Congress should do the same.  Responsible Delay  Another way to extract savings is to delay the law’s full
implementation. For example, a delay until 2016 of all its
provisions scheduled to take effect in 2014 or 2015 could save
taxpayers as much as $200 billion.  Both congressional Republicans and the president can
benefit from some delay. For Republicans, delay allows them to
keep alive the possibility of full repeal until after the next
presidential election. For Obama, a delay would allow more time
to set up (and help states set up) health insurance exchanges,
the mechanisms through which subsidy recipients would purchase
insurance.  Finally, there are several smaller provisions in the law
that could be changed to generate savings. A favorite bipartisan
target is the law’s  Prevention and Public Health Fund , which is
nicely named but  has paid for  seemingly unrelated projects such
as the construction of sidewalks and playgrounds. The law
originally set aside $15 billion for this fund from 2010 to
2019, but Obama has twice proposed cutting the fund and actually
did cut it by $5 billion in 2012.  In short, there are a number of ways the Affordable Care
Act can be altered to help with the challenge of deficit
reduction. The question is whether President Obama is serious
about amending his signature law to help the nation deal with
its fiscal challenges.  (Lanhee Chen is a Bloomberg View columnist and a research
fellow at the  Hoover Institution  at  Stanford University . He was
the policy director of  Mitt Romney ’s 2012 presidential campaign.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Lanhee Chen at  lchen301@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 