-- Tencent Falls as Analysts Cut Share Price Forecasts
-- B y   L u l u   Y i l u n   C h e n   a n d   N a t a s h a   K h a n
-- 2013-03-21T09:25:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/tencent-fourth-quarter-profit-beats-analyst-estimates.html
Tencent Holdings Ltd (700) ,  China ’s
largest Internet company, fell in Hong Kong trading after at
least seven analysts cut share price forecasts on the stock.  The shares fell 4 percent to HK$252.40 at the close of
trading in Hong Kong. The stock was the  second-worst performer 
in the benchmark  Hang Seng Index (HSI) , which fell 0.1 percent.  Morgan Stanley cut its share price forecast by 1.6 percent
to HK$315.70, citing lower profit margins and slowing growth in
game sales after Tencent released fourth-quarter earnings that
beat analyst estimates yesterday. Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,
JPMorgan Chase & Co., Piper Jaffray Cos., CIMB Group Holdings
Ltd., OSK Securities Hong Kong Ltd. and Bocom International
Securities Ltd. also  lowered  their price targets.  “The operating margins decline due to higher sales and
marketing spend was a bit worrying,” Alicia Yap, an analyst at
Barclays Plc, said in a report today. The “earnings beat was
driven by tax reversal,” she wrote.  Sales and marketing costs rose 34 percent to 1.1 billion
 yuan  ($177 million) in the December quarter compared with the
September period.  Billionaire Chairman Pony Ma is trying to expand in e-
commerce to compete with Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. as China’s
economic growth boosts online spending.  Tencent, which gets most of its sales from the business
than includes gaming, sees a “huge opportunity” in e-commerce
in the next five to ten years, President Martin Lau said at a
press conference in Hong Kong yesterday.  WeChat Expansion  Net income  grew  37 percent to 3.46 billion yuan, the Hong
Kong-listed company reported yesterday. That beat the 3.32
billion yuan average of 11  analyst estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg. Sales climbed 53 percent to 12.2 billion yuan.  Shenzhen, China-based Tencent is also trying to
commercialize the free WeChat instant messaging service to
compete with  Sina Corp. (SINA) ’s Twitter-like application Weibo and cut
its dependence on Internet games. Development of the
application, which had more than 300 million users by January,
comes as marketing spending increases and  Internet users  shift
from using personal computers to mobile devices.  Tencent wants to ensure the “user experience is at front
and foremost,” President Martin Lau said. “We are not in rush
to make money from Weixin,” he said, referring to WeChat in
Chinese.  WeChat has the potential to reach at least 400 million
users by the end of 2013 and earn annual revenue of as much as
2.16 billion yuan, Yap wrote in a March 13 report.  WeChat allows users to send text, image or audio messages.
The audio message function is similar to an application from
WhatsApp Inc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lulu Yilun Chen in Hong Kong at 
 ychen447@bloomberg.net ;
Natasha Khan in  Hong Kong  at 
 nkhan51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  