-- Lennar Jumps to Highest Since 2007 on Earnings Beat
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2013-03-20T20:32:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/lennar-earnings-beat-estimates-as-housing-recovery-continues.html
Lennar Corp. (LEN) , the third-largest
U.S. homebuilder by revenue, rose to the highest in almost six
years after reporting a better-than-estimated profit and a 34
percent jump in orders in the fiscal first quarter.  Net income climbed to $57.5 million, or 26 cents a share,
in the three months through February, from $15 million, or 8
cents, a year earlier, the Miami-based company said today in a
statement. Analysts expected earnings of 15 cents a share, the
median of 15 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Lennar and other U.S. builders are benefiting from revived
demand for new homes as the  inventory  of existing houses for
sale shrinks and buyers take advantage of mortgage  rates  that
are close to record lows. Builders broke ground on  new homes  at
an annual pace of 917,000 in February, and building  permits  rose
to a 946,000 rate, the most since June 2008, the Commerce
Department reported yesterday.  “Housing is recovering and the recovery is consistent,
healthy and growing stronger,” Chief Executive Officer Stuart Miller said during a conference call with analysts. “The
recovery is based on strong market fundamentals.”  U.S. home prices are expected to rise as much as 8 percent
this year, up from previous estimates of 4 percent to 6 percent,
Morgan Stanley analysts led by Vishwanath Tirupattur said in a
note yesterday. JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Bank of America Corp.
have also raised their home-price forecasts this month.  Lennar jumped 4.8 percent to $43.40 at the close in New
York, the highest price since June 6, 2007. It was the second-
best performer in the 11-member Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite
Homebuilding  Index (S15HOME) , which advanced 3.7 percent.  Tax Asset  Lennar’s results included the reversal of a $25 million
deferred tax asset. Without that, earnings would have been about
15 cents a share, according to David Goldberg, an analyst with
UBS AG in New York.  “Results for the homebuilding segment were impressive,”
Goldberg, who has a neutral rating on the company and expected
earnings of 18 cents, said in a note today. “Revenues rose 40
percent year on year -- ahead of our 30 percent estimate -- with
units up 28 percent and price up 9 percent.”  Lennar has been raising prices at least once a month in all
of its communities and deliberately slowing sales in some areas
with high demand, Chief Operating Officer Jon Jaffe said on the
conference call.  “There are many communities which we do meter the rate of
sales and suppress it below what the market would demand,”
Jaffe said. “So in that case, we are seeing more significant
price increases.”  Revenue, Orders  Total revenue rose 37 percent in the quarter from a year
earlier to $989.9 million. Lennar delivered 3,186 homes with an
average price of $269,000, compared with 2,482 homes for an
average of $246,000 in the first quarter of 2012. Orders jumped
to 4,055 homes from 3,022 a year earlier.  Lennar’s gross margins narrowed to 22.1 percent in the
first quarter from 23.5 percent in the previous three months
because the cost of construction is higher during the winter.
The company expects gross margins to average 23 percent to 24
percent for the fiscal year, Chief Financial Officer Bruce Gross
said on the call.  Lennar builds homes in 18 states for customers ranging from
first-time buyers to retirees. It also plans to develop $1
billion worth of apartments, starting with 3,000 units this
year, to meet demand from people who aren’t able to buy, Miller
said in January.  Land Deals  Confidence among U.S. homebuilders fell in March even as
demand grew because of bottlenecks such as a limited supply of
lots and rising material and labor costs, the National
Association of Home Builders said on March 18.  Lot shortages are less of a concern for Lennar, which spent
more than $500 million on land in the first quarter, Miller
said. The homebuilder is now focusing on acquiring lots to build
homes in 2015 and beyond, enabling the company to increase its
market share, he said.  “The larger builders have had access to capital and land
while the market was depressed and since then, land prices have
moved significantly,” Miller said. “Late participants in the
land market are having difficulty participating in the market
recovery.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Spillane in  London  at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net ;
John Gittelsohn in Los Angeles at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  