-- Entice States to Expand Medicaid, Though Not at All Costs
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-03-20T22:30:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/entice-states-to-expand-medicaid-though-not-at-all-costs.html
How far should the  Barack Obama 
administration go to persuade states to expand their Medicaid
programs?  Since last June, when the U.S. Supreme Court gave states
permission to opt out of the Affordable Care Act’s Medicaid
expansion,  14 governors  have declared that they will do just
that. Eleven more are on the fence. The upshot? More than  5
million  Americans could still be without health insurance in
2014.  Naturally,  Kathleen Sebelius , the secretary of health and
human services, would like to keep that from happening. Her
department is working to lure states into covering everyone with
incomes as much as 138 percent of the federal poverty level by
loosening some rules. For instance, many states have been given
permission to put all new beneficiaries on private managed-care
insurance plans.  Now, however,  Arkansas  and a  few other states  are proposing
to go a huge  step further  and use the federal Medicaid-expansion
funds to give new enrollees “premium support” to buy individual
policies on state insurance exchanges. Arkansas Governor Mike Beebe says this would satisfy Republican legislators’
philosophical preference for private insurance over government
programs. Presumably, it would give them a rhetorical path to
accept  billions  of dollars in new federal Medicaid spending
without seeming to compromise their anti-Obamacare principles.  Medicaid Efficiency  It’s not clear, though, how the states could manage this in
a way that would preserve the program’s efficiency and taxpayer
dollars. (Yes, Medicaid  is efficient , delivering a high standard
of care at rock-bottom cost.) Unless Arkansas and its
counterparts include credible measures to ensure that private
plans don’t squeeze beneficiaries’ health care, Sebelius should
draw a line -- the tradeoff won’t be worth it.  States already have a strong incentive to participate in
the expansion: the federal government’s commitment to pay the
full freight for the first three years and at least 90 percent
thereafter. Taxpayers in states that refuse the money, as
Florida Governor  Rick Scott  pointed out when he recently  changed
his mind  in favor of the expansion, end up supporting other
states’ efforts without reaping any benefit for their own poor
residents.  In addition to Scott, Republican governors in  Arizona ,
 Michigan ,  Nevada ,  New Jersey ,  North Dakota  and  Ohio  have seen
the wisdom of cooperating. With pressure building on the holdout
governors and legislatures, it’s reasonable to think that most
states will eventually come on board, even if not in the first
year. (The Obama administration has set no deadline for states
to decide.)  It therefore shouldn’t be necessary for federal officials
to bend over backward to get states to sign on right away.  To understand the case for patience, consider what it would
mean to put beneficiaries on private insurance. According to the
 Congressional Budget Office , in 2022, it  will cost  the federal
government $6,000 on average to cover a Medicaid beneficiary,
but $9,000 to provide the same level of coverage through a
private insurance plan. Raising the cost per beneficiary by 50
percent should only exacerbate the reluctant governors’ worries
about the federal government being able to meet its future
funding obligation.  Of course, states could try to persuade private insurers to
do the job for less money. In that case, however, they’d need to
make sure those insurers were still able to provide the same
standard of care that traditional Medicaid delivers -- without
charging beneficiaries undue copays. If not, the states would
need to provide “wraparound” coverage to make up the difference.  This isn’t to say the federal government should rule out
the whole idea of private premium assistance for Medicaid
beneficiaries. After all, states’ experience so far with
managed-care insurance plans for Medicaid suggests some of them 
have saved some money, even though most haven’t, according to a
 recent review  of the literature.  Beebe says Sebelius has verbally approved his plan, though
a formal proposal has yet to be assessed. Sebelius is right to
entertain such experiments, provided the plans are carefully
constructed and the results closely monitored. If not, Sebelius
should stand her ground.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 