-- Tepco Says Outage Cause at Fukushima Nuke Plant Unknown
-- B y   M a   J i e   a n d   M a s a a k i   I w a m o t o
-- 2013-03-20T03:49:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/tepco-says-outage-cause-at-fukushima-nuke-plant-unknown.html
Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501)  says it
still doesn’t know what caused a  power outage  at four pools used
to cool spent nuclear fuel at the crippled Fukushima Dai-Ichi
plant,  Tokyo  Electric Power Co.  Electricity was restored to all of the pools by 12 minutes
after midnight, Tokyo Electric said in a statement. The outage,
which disabled pumps at three of the plant’s wrecked reactors’
storage pools and a shared pool, started at 6:57 p.m. on March
18, according to the utility.  “We haven’t found the cause,” general manager Masayuki
Ono said at a briefing in Tokyo. Ono said 25 workers are
investigating the outage, which was the longest affecting
multiple units at the plant since the March 11, 2011, disaster
that triggered three meltdowns.  No radiation spikes were recorded near the plant during the
failure and the outage didn’t affect cooling systems for the
plant’s reactors, according to the government. Without power to
pump cooling water, uranium fuel rods stored in the pools could
have heated up over days and released radiation.  Three reactors melted down at the Dai-Ichi plant after the
earthquake and tsunami on March 11 two years ago, making it the
world’s worst nuclear accident after Chernobyl. About 160,000
people were forced to evacuate and a 20-kilometer no-go zone was
set up because of radiation fallout.  The loss of electricity may have been caused by the failure
of a distribution box exposed to wind and sand, Ono said. All of
the spent fuels affected by the outage have been relying on a
single  power source  since March 6, when the utility started
repairs on cables in a separate system, he said.  Fuel Pools  Spent fuel pools are typically 40 feet deep and built in
reactor buildings. They’re made of reinforced concrete several
feet thick and steel sheeting to contain radiation and hold
water to cool rods after they have been used in a reactor,
according to the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission.  Tokyo Electric and  Japan ’s government announced in December
2011 that the Fukushima reactors reached a state known as cold
shutdown.  Japan’s previous government approved phasing out nuclear
power by the end of the 2030s, a policy favored by the largest
percentage of citizens in a government poll in August.  Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, whose  Liberal
Democratic Party  won a landslide majority in December, has said
that policy needs to be reconsidered to provide the energy
needed to help revive the world’s third-biggest economy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ma Jie in Tokyo at 
 jma124@bloomberg.net ;
Masaaki Iwamoto in Tokyo at 
 miwamoto4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jason Clenfield at 
 jclenfield@bloomberg.net ;
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  