-- Tesco Plans to Invest $750 Million in Digital Push, Chief Says
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g   a n d   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 2013-03-20T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/tesco-plans-to-invest-750-million-in-digital-push-chief-says.html
Tesco Plc, the U.K.’s largest
grocer, will invest $750 million this year to accelerate the
roll-out of digital services and plans to vie with Amazon.com
Inc. and  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  for U.K. customers, Chief Executive
Officer  Philip Clarke  said.  “To compete in the new area of retailing I believe that
Tesco has to be more than a retail company,” Clarke said at a
conference in Singapore today. “We have to become a technology
company as well. That’s why, in 2013, we will invest three
quarters of a billion U.S. dollars in technology, up threefold
in three years.”  Retailers across the world are racing to build online
stores as customers shift to shopping via computers, mobile
phones and tablets. Tesco has also created a digital platform
called Blinkbox in response to customers increasingly
downloading movies, books and music online, rather than buying
DVDs or CDs in supermarkets or from town-center stores.  “Last year in the U.K., sales of physical books, movies
and music fell by 25 percent,” Clarke said. “Internet versions
grew by 150 percent.”  This month Tesco started a free Internet television service
for the 16 million members of its Clubcard loyalty program.
Clubcard customers can watch television shows and movies, with
the content “specifically tailored to family and kids,” Tesco
said.  The channel, called Clubcard TV, will be funded by
“targeted advertising,” Tesco said, and advertisers that have
signed up for the introduction include  Kellogg Co. (K) ,  Johnson &
Johnson (JNJ) ,  Colgate-Palmolive Co. (CL)  and  Danone SA. (BN)   Tesco, which has stores in China, Thailand, Malaysia and
Korea, will also roll out its online grocery offering across
Asia, Clarke said.  “Last year I called time on the old ‘space race’ -- I said
that in the future, we wouldn’t simply grow by buying more real
estate, but instead change the way we engage with our customers
and embrace digital retailing,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net ;
Klaus Wille in Singapore at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  