-- Tesoro Is First Customer for Sapphire’s Algae-Derived Crude Oil
-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 2013-03-20T18:45:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/tesoro-is-first-customer-for-sapphire-s-algae-derived-crude-oil.html
Sapphire Energy Inc., a Bill Gates-
backed producer of crude oil from algae, said  Tesoro Corp. (TSO)  is
its first customer.  Tesoro, the largest independent refiner on the U.S. West
Coast, is purchasing an undisclosed amount of the oil produced
at its demonstration plant in Columbus,  New Mexico , closely held
Sapphire said today in a statement. The agreement is “the first
step of a commercial relationship” to process oil from planned
commercial-scale facilities, the San Diego-based company said.  The demonstration plant was funded in part by a $50 million
U.S. Energy Department grant and a $54.4 million loan guarantee
from the Department of Agriculture. It’s expected to produce as
much as 100 barrels a day by the end of 2014.  Sapphire’s algae is produced from sunlight and carbon-
dioxide and grown in open ponds with non-potable, non-fresh
water, according to the company’s website.  The $135 million plant currently has 100 acres of
“cultivation capacity” and is continuously producing 2 barrels
a day, Tim Zenk, a Sapphire spokesman, said today by telephone.
Tesoro has agreed “to take as much as we can produce,” and the
plant will encompass 300 acres and produce 100 barrels a day at
full capacity, he said. He wouldn’t disclose the purchase price.  The companies are working together to obtain certification
of transportation fuels refined from the oil for on-road use.
That approval from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency may
be received within six months, Zenk said.  Tesoro in the interim plans to sell algae-derived  diesel
fuel  it makes for off-road use, including for construction gear,
farming equipment and generators, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  