-- ETF Beating Market With Gains Less Price Swings: Riskless Return
-- B y   C h a r l e s   S t e i n
-- 2013-03-20T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/etf-beating-market-with-gains-less-price-swings-riskless-return.html
Investors who bought  PowerShares
S&P 500 Low Volatility Portfolio (SPLV)  for protection from stock-
market swings when it debuted almost two years ago got an
unexpected bonus: They also made more money.  The $4.1 billion exchange-traded fund, which owns the 100
stocks in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index with the lowest
volatility, gained 30 percent since its  inception  on May 5,
2011, compared with 21 percent for the benchmark U.S. index. The
ETF, the largest of its kind, achieved that performance with
about 70 percent of the volatility in the index, giving it a
risk-adjusted return double that of the market, according to the
BLOOMBERG RISKLESS RETURN RANKING.  The PowerShares ETF, offered by a unit of Atlanta-based
Invesco Ltd., is the oldest and the biggest in a group of funds
opened since the financial crisis to attract investors seeking
equity returns without the unprecedented price swings that
followed the 2008 failure of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
 BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s biggest money manager, Putnam
Investments and Janus Capital Group Inc. have since started
similar funds designed to lower the impact of price swings.  “Our clients have to sleep at night,” John O’Connor,
president of 3D Asset Management in East Hartford,  Connecticut ,
whose $650 million in assets under management include an
investment in the low-volatility ETF, said in a telephone
interview.  ETF Composition  The PowerShares ETF is based on an index that is compiled
and maintained by Standard & Poor’s S&P Dow Jones Indices, which
takes the 100 least-volatile stocks over the past year in its
S&P 500 Index and assigns the greatest weight to those shares
with the smallest price swings. The result is a collection that
looks very different from the traditional benchmark.  In the low-volatility index, utilities represented 31
percent of the portfolio, compared with 3.4 percent in the
regular U.S. benchmark, and consumer staples accounted for 24
percent, versus the index’s 11 percent at the end of February,
according data from Standard & Poor’s. Information technology,
which represents 18 percent of the S&P 500, made up 3.6 percent
of the low-volatility portfolio.  Among the biggest individual holdings in the PowerShares
ETF are  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  and  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP) , the two stocks in
the S&P 500 with the lowest volatility over the past year --10.1
and 10.4, respectively. Johnson & Johnson, based in New
Brunswick, New Jersey, advanced 21 percent in the 12 months
ended March 15, and Purchase, New York-based PepsiCo climbed 18
percent.  Heinz, Hershey  The biggest contributor to the ETF’s performance over the
past year include  H.J. Heinz Co. (HNZ) , the Pittsburgh-based ketchup
maker being acquired by  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) 
and 3G Capital Inc.,  portfolio data  compiled by Bloomberg show.
 Hershey Co. (HSY) , the Hershey, Pennsylvania-based candy company, was
the second-biggest.  The PowerShares ETF gained 2.2 percent, adjusted for price
swings, since it was created on May 5, 2011, compared with a 1.1
percent return for the S&P 500, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The risk-adjusted return, which isn’t annualized, is
calculated by dividing total return by volatility or the degree
of daily price variation, giving a measure of income per unit of
risk. A higher volatility means the price of an asset can swing
dramatically in a short period, increasing the potential for
unexpected losses.  Some academic research has found that over time, buying
less volatile stocks produces both results that are comparable,
and often better, than those of broad market indexes, with the
added benefit of giving investors a smoother ride.  ‘Greatest Anomaly’  “The long-term outperformance of low-risk portfolios is
perhaps the greatest anomaly in finance,” Harvard Business
School Professor Malcolm Baker wrote in a 2011 paper in
Financial Analysts Journal.  When S&P designed the low-volatility product, it traced the
history of the index back to 1990 in a process known as
backtesting. The numbers showed that over three, five years and
10 years, the low-volatility index had a higher total return
than the S&P 500.  Harvard’s Baker said market data going back to the 1930s
show that low-volatility stocks have delivered about the same
returns as market indexes, a result that contradicts the notion
that higher risks translate to higher rewards.  “In this case you are taking less risk, but not giving up
any return,” he said in a telephone interview.  Investor Behavior  Other studies have come to similar conclusions, according
to Joel Dickson, a senior investment strategist at Valley Forge,
Pennsylvania-based Vanguard Group Inc., who said finance
scholars have a hard time explaining the mismatch. Most theories
attempting to explain it revolve around investor behavior.
Because people are overly smitten with fast-growing, glamorous
companies, they bid up the prices of those stocks to the point
where future returns suffer, said Dickson.  Dickson offers a caveat. When stocks soar as they did in
the 1990s, low-volatility holdings can underperform for long
stretches, said Dickson, a senior investment strategist at
Valley Forge, Pennsylvania-based Vanguard Group Inc.  “As an investor you have to be willing to stomach periods
when this strategy gets killed,” Dickson said in a telephone
interview.  In the nine years ended Dec 31, 1999, a period in which
stocks gained 21 percent a year, the S&P 500 Index returned more
than twice as much as its low-volatility counterpart, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. It also outperformed after
accounting for price swings, with a risk-adjusted return of 32
percent, compared with 20 percent for the low-volatility index.  VIX Plunges  O’Connor of 3D Management is aware there will be times when
the low volatility ETF trails the market. Still, he said, it is
rational to hold it in one’s portfolio.  “People love volatility when stocks are heading up,” he
said. “They hate it when stocks are going down.”  Stock-market swings eased to a six-year low last week as
signs of a brightening economy pushed the Dow Jones Industrial
Average to a record. The Chicago Board Options Exchange
Volatility Index, or VIX, has plunged 20 percent this year.  Traders are placing a record number of bets that U.S.
stock-market swings will rise on speculation that volatility has
fallen too fast. The shares outstanding for the iPath S&P 500
VIX Short-Term Futures ETN, the most-active security that tracks
changes in VIX futures, climbed to an all-time high of 64
million this year as of March 15, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  Smoother Path  Offering a smoother path for investors has become a popular
sales pitch asset-management firms in the aftermath of the
financial crisis.  “Risk-adjusted returns, rather than swing-for-the-fences
returns, are absolutely more important,” Richard M. Weil, chief
executive officer of  Janus Capital Group Inc. (JNS) , said in a
February interview with Bloomberg News.  Janus, following the lead of BlackRock, Invesco and  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , has introduced funds that seek to spread risk
across asset classes and protect clients from sharp market
drops. BlackRock introduced low-volatility ETFs in October 2011,
including the $2 billion  iShares MSCI USA Minimum Volatility
Index Fund . Invesco PowerShares, which managed more than $70
billion as of Dec. 31, has five ETFs designed to minimize
volatility.  Seeking Income  Low-volatility ETFs that BlackRock and Invesco have opened
to invest in developing-market stocks have beaten the benchmark
MSCI Emerging Market Index on risk-adjusted basis since
inception, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Some of the
other low-volatility products are too new to have meaningful
results.  Joshua Emanuel, chief investment officer with Elements
Financial Group LLC, in  Irvine ,  California , said the PowerShares
product is a good fit in the current environment. With stocks
sporting “healthy” valuations, he said he doesn’t want to own
equities that will depend on strong global growth to carry them
higher.  “I want a stable portfolio that has some income associated
with it,” said Emanuel, who oversees about $400 million.  The PowerShares ETF has a dividend yield of 2.78 percent
compared to 2.13 for the S&P 500 Index, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The low-volatility index did best in times when stocks
fell, such as 2000 to 2002, and in 2008, according to S&P data.
In 2008 the low-volatility index fell 21 percent compared with
37 percent for the S&P 500.  “Protecting yourself on the downside may lend itself to
outperformance over time,” Taylor Ames, senior equity
strategist for  Invesco (IVZ)  PowerShares, said in a telephone
interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Stein in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  