-- Metro Expects Operating Profit to Fall on Cash & Carry Spending
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2013-03-20T07:19:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/metro-expects-operating-profit-to-fall-on-cash-carry-spending.html
Metro AG (MEO) ,  Germany ’s biggest
retailer, forecast a decline in operating profit as the company
invests in its Cash & Carry unit and the economy remains
challenging in southern and eastern  Europe .  Operating income will drop in the first nine months of
2013, the Dusseldorf-based company said today in a statement.
Adjusted Earnings before interest and tax including real estate
will rise in the first nine months of 2013 from 704 million
euros ($907 million) in the year-earlier period, the retailer
also said.  Sales adjusted for portfolio changes will rise
“moderately,” Metro said. Those projections are based on
unchanged exchange rates, the retailer said.  “The continued challenging consumer environment in many
European countries resulting from the sovereign debt crisis
again impacted business development at Metro Group in 2012,”
Chief Executive Officer Olaf Koch said in the statement. “In
2012, we have created first conditions for long-term growth.”  Metro is changing its financial calendar and this fiscal
year will be nine months long. For fiscal 2014, the retailer
forecast Ebit to rise excluding one-time items.  UBS Report  Metro shares  jumped  the most since November 2011 yesterday
after UBS AG recommended buying the stock as Koch’s divestment
policy may trigger further gains. The company’s largest unit,
Cash & Carry, is worth 14 billion euros, almost twice as much as
the company’s current market value, UBS said.  Fourth-quarter Ebit at Cash & Carry dropped 15 percent to
491 million euros, Metro said today. Earnings fell 12 percent at
Media Markt/Saturn and Real and were little changed at Kaufhof.  Koch said when he became CEO at the beginning of last year
that he would focus on Cash & Carry and the Media-Saturn
electronics chain as he cuts investment in Kaufhof department
stores and Real grocery outlets. Since then, he has agreed to
sell  Real stores  in eastern Europe to Groupe Auchan SA, sold
Makro U.K. wholesale unit to  Booker Group Plc (BOK)  and announced
Media-Saturn is leaving  China .  Metro cut its  full-year dividend  26 percent and reported
earnings that missed analysts’ estimates on March 1 as the
company struggled to contend with weakening economies in Europe.  Metro gets about two-thirds of its revenue from the euro
area, where the economy will shrink again this year after
contracting last year, the first back-to-back decline since the
euro’s debut in 1999, according to a European Commission
forecast.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  