-- EU Lawmaker Sees No Carbon Fix Compromise Before Vote
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2013-03-20T12:27:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/eu-lawmaker-sees-no-carbon-fix-compromise-before-vote.html
Political groups in the European
Parliament will not propose a new compromise solution on a draft
carbon market fix before the full assembly vote scheduled for
next month, according to lawmaker Eija-Riitta Korhola.  Korhola, who leads the work on the measure in the European
People’s Party, said representatives of political groups were
unable to agree on potential changes to the legislative proposal
yesterday during their last meeting before the April 16 vote.
The Parliament and EU governments are considering a one-sentence
amendment to the emissions law to allow curbing a record
oversupply in the carbon market by delaying the sale of some
permits. The draft plan has divided policy makers and industry.  “We couldn’t find a compromise,” Korhola, a Finnish
member of the EPP, the biggest political group in the
Parliament, told Bloomberg News in a telephone interview late
yesterday. “It would be either a polite way to say no or a shy
way of saying yes.”  Carbon prices in the EU cap-and-trade program, the world’s
biggest, slumped to a record low of 2.81 euros a metric ton in
January amid concerns that the rescue plan will fail. A lack of
a deal among representatives of political groups before the
plenary vote may mean that the position of parties next month
will be similar to their voting pattern in February, when the
Parliament’s environment committee discussed the measure.  Temporary Remedy  The committee in a non-binding opinion supported the carbon
market rescue plan by 35 to 28, with two abstentions, while
transferring the decision on the future steps on the proposal to
the plenary. A majority of EPP members in the environment panel
voted against the strategy to delay the sale of 900 million
carbon permits designed by the European Commission.  The intervention proposed by the EU’s regulatory arm is a
temporary remedy that won’t tackle the underlying cause of
problems in the region’s emissions market, according to Korhola.
The program has been harmed by the overlap of member states and
EU policies on renewable energy and energy efficiency that
undermine demand for pollution rights, she said.  “If we had signals that the commission wants to forbid
renewable energy subsidies, that’d help the emissions system,”
she said. “Renewable energy is on the tit. The EU will need to
lower its renewable target sooner or later for this energy to be
able to reach genuine profitability.”  Trilogue  Korhola’s negative view on the commission’s proposal, known
as backloading, may not reflect the opinion of all members of
the EPP, according to Jan Frommeyer, an analyst at Tschach
Solutions GmbH, the Karlsruhe, Germany-based provider of carbon-
market analysis. In the February vote, 7 EPP members voted in
favor of the carbon market fix, 15 against and 2 abstained.  “I believe that the plenary will generally accept the
environment committee’s report and its proposed amendments,”
Frommeyer said by e-mail.  Should the Parliament support the change to the emissions
trading law and authorize Matthias Groote, the lead lawmaker on
the measure, to begin talks with member states, the two will
need to agree on a final version of the proposal in a process
known as trilogue. Following a potential deal in the trilogue,
the measure will need formal approval by the plenary and by EU
ministers in further votes to take place in the coming months.  Adoption of the emissions law change would pave the way for
member states to vote on a separate measure to set the details
of the carbon market rescue plan. It assumes delaying 900
million allowances at auctions in 2013-2015 and returning them
to the market in 2019-2020.  The backloading proposal may fail in the Parliament as
members of the assembly remain split and  Germany ,  Europe ’s
biggest economy, is undecided whether to back the measure,
according to Jens Teresniak, an energy economist at Stadtwerke
Leipzig GmbH.  “I’m really not that optimistic regarding a majority for
backloading in the April 16 vote,” he said in an e-mail today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  