-- EU Targets Fund Manager Pay After Clinching Banker Curbs
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-03-21T16:22:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/eu-to-press-ahead-with-banker-bonus-curbs-after-basel-law-deal.html
Fund managers are facing a push by
European Parliament lawmakers to limit their bonuses, hours
after Britain failed to water down planned EU  banker -pay rules
that are set to take effect from 2015.  The assembly’s economic and monetary affairs committee
voted in favor of a ban on managers of EU regulated mutual
funds, known as UCITS, from receiving bonuses larger than their
fixed pay.  “Today’s vote would ensure greater protection for
investors and help reduce excessively risky speculation,” Sven Giegold, the legislator leading work on the draft measures in
the assembly, said in an e-mailed statement. “The rules as
voted today would be an important step towards ending the
gambler mentality in the investment fund sector.”  The move comes as European Parliament lawmakers and
Ireland, which holds the rotating presidency of the EU,
confirmed a compromise deal overhauling bank capital and
liquidity rules for the 27-nation EU. That law will ban banker
bonuses that are more than twice fixed pay, with scope for as
much as a quarter of the bonus to be valued at a discount if
payment is deferred for at least five years.  In calling for tougher fund-manager rules, lawmakers set
the stage for a vote by the full parliament before negotiations
with national diplomats can start. Funds that meet EU investor-
protection and oversight rules can be labeled as UCITS, and gain
the right to operate throughout the 27-nation bloc.  Barnier Proposals  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services chief, made
proposals last year to toughen regulation of the funds.
Lawmakers are seeking to add the pay curbs to Barnier’s plans.  If adopted, the pay rules would also apply to employees
outside the EU, Giegold said in an e-mail.  The banker bonus restrictions, which beef-up rules that are
already the toughest in the world, will “significantly reduce
remuneration,” said Philippe Lamberts, one of the assembly’s
lead lawmakers in the negotiations. “It will be impossible to
match the excesses of yesterday with a structure that is much
more constraining.”  The draft bank law sets out the EU’s approach to applying
international capital and liquidity rules known as Basel III,
drawn up following the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
While yesterday’s accord paves the way for the EU to start
phasing in the Basel law by next January, it comes too late to
limit 2014 bonus awards.  ‘Resilient’ London  “The concession on timing will be welcomed” by lenders,
Alex Beidas, employee-incentives specialist at law firm
Linklaters LLP, said by e-mail. “But the banks had been hoping
that further compromises would have been achieved.”  The City of  London  “is resilient and has faced down many
challenges in its history,” said  John Purcell , chief executive
officer of Purcell & Co., a London executive-search firm.  “These disgraceful beggar-thy-neighbor plans driven by
jealousy and cowardice could ironically founder on European
law,” he said.  The Federation of European Employers, which represents
corporate recruiters, has said the bonus curbs would go beyond
the powers given to the European Union by the bloc’s treaties.  Bank Talks  Talks on the bank rules had dragged on for a year and a
half before the Irish presidency and lawmakers negotiated the
bonus agreement. The parliament had insisted that the
legislation include restraints on pay to curb excessive awards
and irresponsible behavior, and initially called for a ban on
awards that exceed fixed pay. Yesterday’s deal cemented a
tentative accord from last month that attracted criticism from
Britain.  The bonus rules would apply to EU banks, including overseas
units. They would also apply to EU-based units of banks from
 beyond  the bloc’s borders.  “Hopefully we’ve seen the end of ridiculous pay
packages,” Barnier said in an e-mailed statement.  The European Banking Authority will work out the details of
the discounting method, under yesterday’s deal. The amount of
discount that is granted will depend in part of how long payment
of that part of the bonus award is deferred. The discounting
would only apply to securities that could be written down in a
crisis.  Fixed Salaries  The bonus restrictions faced opposition from the U.K.
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne , who said that the
plan could drive up fixed salaries at banks and damage the
competitiveness of the nation’s financial services industry.  Since the law won’t take effect before January 2014, it
would be impossible to limit bonuses based on 2013 performance,
said Vicky Ford, a fellow Tory, who sits in the EU Parliament.  The deal, which must be formally ratified by governments
and the EU parliament, means that the bloc is close to settling
how it should apply the Basel pact.  Both the EU and the U.S. missed a January 2013 deadline to
begin phasing in the Basel III rules, which are scheduled to
fully apply from 2019.  Barnier has called for the EU to begin applying Basel III
from next year, to correspond with plans in the U.S.  The Basel III package more than triples the core reserves
that lenders must hold against insolvency, compared with
previous Basel standards.  Basel Committee  The  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision , which brings
together regulators from 27 nations including the U.S, U.K. and
 China , warned last year that the EU implementation plans may not
be fully in line with Basel III.  The EU plans must still be voted on by the parliament, and
formally approved by national governments, before they can take
effect.  UCITS, or Undertakings for Collective Investment in
Transferable Securities, had more than 6 trillion euros ($7.8
trillion) under management as at April 2012, according to the
European Commission.  Today’s parliament vote to limit the pay of UCITS managers
is a mistake, Syed Kamall, a U.K. lawmaker in the assembly,
said.  “It is vital that member states resist this hugely
damaging initiative which will be bad for investors and for
transparency,” Kamall said in an e-mail. “It is a wholly
inappropriate initiative and legally unsound.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  