-- Europe Plays I-Didn’t-Do-It Blame Game on Cyprus Bank Tax
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2013-03-20T15:27:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/europe-plays-i-didn-t-do-it-blame-game-on-cyprus-bank-tax.html
To listen to the German and French
governments, the  European Central Bank  and  European Commission ,
no one was responsible for the Cypriot deposit tax that was
unanimously endorsed in the early hours of March 16 and fell
apart yesterday.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  opened the blame
game on Sunday, telling ARD television that the commission, ECB
and Cypriot government engineered the swoop on ordinary  bank
accounts  and “now they have to explain it to the Cypriot
people.”  By then, the Cypriot people were lining up at cash machines
and painting “No” on the palms of their hands to protest the
levy that, even with a tax-free allowance built in for the
smallest savers, didn’t win a single “Yes” vote in the Cypriot
parliament.  “The Cyprus fiasco has the hallmark of a classic
whodunit,” Sony Kapoor, head of the  Re-Define  think tank, said
in an e-mailed note. “Someone somewhere took a decision that
now no one nowhere appears to have made.”  Indignation in Nicosia led other finance ministers to
disown what they had decided.  France ’s  Pierre Moscovici  said he had wanted an exemption
for accounts worth less than 100,000 euros ($129,500). Austria’s
Maria Fekter said ECB demands made that impossible.  The central bank, Fekter said on Monday, wanted to lowball
the tax on larger depositors, magnifying the hit on the smaller
ones. Joerg Asmussen, the ECB Executive Board member who took
part in the finance chiefs’ all-night Brussels meeting, pleaded
not guilty, saying the central bank didn’t insist on “this
specific structure of the levy.”  ‘All Elements’  Other non-authors of the tax on sub-100,000-euro accounts
included Spanish Economy Minister Luis de Guindos, Finnish
Finance Minister Jutta Urpilainen and the Brussels-based
commission, which said  today  it wasn’t comfortable with the
package in “all its elements” and added that “decisions are
taken by the member states.”  Luxembourg Finance Minister Luc Frieden pointed at
everyone, saying in a March 18 interview that it was a “very
difficult compromise” backed by “all euro-zone member
states,” the commission, ECB and  International Monetary Fund .  A reconstruction based on interviews with European
officials suggests the chain of causality went like this: first,
 Germany  and the IMF demanded a full “bail-in” of Cypriot bank
creditors and depositors; then, to counter this nuclear option,
the commission, with ECB backing, came up with the levy idea;
then the Cypriots, fearful of scaring away big, mostly Russian
bank clients, spread the tax between the two classes of
depositors.  One person who wasn’t at the Brussels meeting, German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel , had no trouble identifying the
culprit. Cyprus has to give up “a banking model that isn’t
sustainable,” she said at the DIHK chamber of commerce in
Berlin today. “We all know that banks that take risks, banks
that operate on the wrong model, are a threat not just for the
home country but a threat for all.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  