-- Euro Rises as Cyprus Seeks Alternatives to EU Plan
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i   a n d   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-03-20T21:14:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/euro-climbs-as-ecb-buys-cyprus-time-to-renegotiate-rescue-deal.html
The euro strengthened from a four-
month low against the dollar as Cyprus sought alternatives to
the European Union plan to help the nation avoid a banking
collapse and the Federal Reserve maintained stimulus measures.  The dollar remained lower against the 17-nation currency
after the Fed said it will continue buying $85 billion of bond
per month to bolster the economy. The euro rose after the
European Central Bank’s pledge to provide liquidity to Cyprus
gave the nation time to renegotiate a financial rescue and on
speculation that  Russia  may provide aid. The yen fell against a
majority of its 16 most-traded after Nikkei reported without
attribution that incoming Bank of  Japan  Governor Haruhiko Kuroda
will pledge “bold” monetary easing.  “We haven’t seen a lot of contagion from Cyprus to the
larger financial markets,”  Vassili Serebriakov , a foreign-
exchange strategist at BNP Paribas SA in New York, said in a
telephone interview. “Markets are still of the view that a
solution is going to be found, which is what’s been supporting
the euro.”  The euro advanced 0.4 percent to $1.2933 at 5:00 p.m. New
York time, after sliding to $1.2844 yesterday, the weakest level
since Nov. 22. The common currency strengthened 1.3 percent to
124.17 yen. Japan’s currency weakened 0.9 percent to 96.01 per
dollar.  Peso Gains  Mexico ’s peso rose versus most of its 16 major peers after
policy makers signaled they will keep benchmark borrowing costs
unchanged after cutting them earlier this month. The country
isn’t planning measures to curb the peso’s gains this year,
Deputy Finance Minister Fernando Aportela said March 17.  The peso rose 0.7 percent to 12.3480 per dollar, touching
the strongest level since September 2011.  Hungary’s forint strengthened for a second day, and the
most against the greenback of its 31 most-traded peers, amid
speculation the country will avoid dramatic policy measures to
help foreign-currency debtors.  The forint appreciated 0.2 percent to 304.87 per euro and
0.6 percent to 235.74 to the dollar.  South Africa’s currency fell for a second day as the
country’s central bank kept its benchmark interest rate
unchanged for a fourth meeting as a slump in the rand stoked
inflation, preventing policy makers from providing further
stimulus to spur economic growth.  The rand weakened 0.9 percent to 9.3311 per dollar and
touched the lowest level since April 2009.  Cyprus Update  Cyprus hasn’t reached any deal with Russian investors for
the sale of Cyprus Popular Bank Plc, government spokesman
Christos Stylianides said in a telephone interview in Nicosia
today. A preliminary deal to sell the bank to Russian investors
was reached, Kathimerini Cyprus reported earlier, without citing
anyone.  “The market is looking for some kind of a resolution to
this issue,”  Fabian Eliasson , vice president of corporate
foreign-exchange sales at  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411)  in New
York, said of the Russian-investor speculation on a Cypriot
bank.  The ECB is likely to delay a decision on whether to
continue to supply Cypriot banks with emergency funds as it
awaits clarity on the nation’s bailout, two people familiar with
the deliberations said. The ECB assumes that a bank holiday in
Cyprus will be extended to the end of the week, the people said.  ECB View  “The ECB statement that they are going to provide more
liquidity means there is some time for renegotiation for Cyprus,
so that’s a positive,” said  Lutz Karpowitz , a senior foreign-
exchange strategist at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt . “As long as
there is still some room for further negotiations, the market is
relatively relaxed. If there is more and more impression that
there won’t be a solution, then there may be more weakness in
the euro.”  The euro may weaken to $1.25, the lowest since August, if
no solution for Cyprus is found, Karpowitz said.  Europe  will find a resolution for Cyprus, said Laurence D. Fink, chief executive officer of  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s
 largest  asset manager.  “It’s not a really major economic issue,” Fink said in a
Bloomberg Television interview in Hong Kong. “It’s a $10
billion issue. It does remind us of the frailty of Europe. It
does remind us that the European fix will be multiple years.”  Market Measure  The yen has dropped 2.1 percent during the past month, the
second-worst performer after  Norway ’s krone among 10 developed-
market currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Indexes. The euro weakened 0.9 percent and the dollar
strengthened 1.3 percent.  The pound reversed an earlier decline against the dollar
after minutes of the Bank of England’s March 6-7 meeting showed
a majority of policy makers said more bond purchases may erode
their credibility.  The pound was about unchanged at $1.5100 after weakening as
much as 0.5 percent.  Fed officials forecast the nation’s unemployment rate will
hit the central bank’s threshold for raising interest rates
sometime in 2015, while projecting faster improvement in the
labor market this year.  U.S. central bankers estimate the jobless rate will average
6.7 percent to 7 percent in the final quarter of 2014 and 6
percent to 6.5 percent in 2015, according to their central
tendency estimates. Similarly, 13 of the 19 Federal Open Market
Committee participants estimated that the first increase in the
federal funds rate from its current range of zero to 0.25
percent.  “Still-high unemployment in combination with relatively
low inflation underscores the need for policies that will
support progress toward maximum employment in the context of
price stability,” Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said at a news
conference in  Washington  after the policy statement.  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which Intercontinental Exchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six U.S. trade
partners, dropped 0.2 percent to 82.046.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net ;
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  