-- Teva to Block Drug for U.S. Execution Use as Hospira Pressured
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2013-03-20T15:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/teva-to-block-drug-for-u-s-execution-use-as-hospira-pressured.html
Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) 
said it plans to control distribution of the anesthetic propofol 
to prevent the drug from being used in executions of U.S.
prisoners.  The world’s largest maker of generic drugs has said it
plans to restart production of the medicine, which is lethal in
large doses and contributed to the death of singer  Michael
Jackson . A shortage of other execution drugs prompted Missouri’s
department of corrections to say in May it will use propofol in
any upcoming lethal injections.  While it plans to supply propofol to hospitals and health-
care providers, Teva will establish procedures to prevent the
drug from being sold to correctional facilities, spokeswoman 
Denise Bradley said. Petach Tikva, Israel-based Teva joins other 
drugmakers, including Denmark’s  H. Lundbeck A/S (LUN)  and Fresenius 
Kabi, a U.S. unit of  Germany ’s  Fresenius SE (FRE) , which have taken 
similar steps.  “Teva has shown that -- like any responsible
pharmaceutical company -- it wishes to be in the business of
saving lives, not ending them in executions,” said Maya Foa,
head of the  Stop the Lethal Injection Project  at  Reprieve , 
a London-based human rights group.  Teva is limiting the sale and distribution of this product 
to customers who agree to use best efforts not to sell or
distribute to correctional facilities, in accordance with a
request made by the company that manufactures the drug for Teva, 
Bradley said.  Stake Sold  Hospira Inc. (HSP) , another drugmaker licensed to sell propofol
in the U.S., has failed to respond to requests from at least one
institutional investor to take similar action, Foa said. The
 Lake Forest , Illinois-based company restarted propofol
production late last year.  On March 12, the Copenhagen-based  Medical Doctors’ Pension
Fund  said it sold its 48 million-krone ($8.3 million) equity
stake in Hospira after receiving no reply to “repeated”
requests to change its distribution system to prevent misuse of
propofol.  ABP, the Dutch pension fund for government and public
sector employees, is also assessing its investment in Hospira,
Foa said. ABP spokesman Jos van Dijk said the fund’s board will
discuss the matter tomorrow and declined to comment on it today.  “Hospira has long communicated that we do not support the
use of any of our products in lethal injection,”  Daniel
Rosenberg , a spokesman for Hospira, said in an e-mailed
statement on Feb. 4. He declined to comment on whether the
company plans to control distribution of propofol.  The company hasn’t substantively changed its position,
Rosenberg said by e-mail yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  