-- EverBank Joins JPMorgan as Mortgage-Bond Issuer Revival Doubles
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2013-03-20T22:24:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/everbank-joins-jpmorgan-as-mortgage-bond-issuer-revival-doubles.html
EverBank Financial Corp. (EVER)  and
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  are planning to sell securities backed by
$924 million of new U.S. home loans without government backing
in deals that would double the number of issuers in the so-
called non-agency market since the debt caused a global crisis.  EverBank, whose home-loan unit is run by Tom Wind, the
former head of residential lending at Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc., is issuing bonds backed by $308 million of loans,  Fitch
Ratings  said in a report. JPMorgan, the largest  U.S. bank , is
planning a $616 million transaction, the credit grader said.  Both sets of bonds are tied to large, “high quality”
loans to borrowers with more than 30 percent equity in their
homes on average, according to separate presale reports by
Fitch, which said the deals had other risky features.  Issuance in the non-agency market is rising after the size
of mortgages that government-supported  Fannie Mae  and Freddie
Mac can finance fell and their bond-guarantee fees increased,
while investors flock to assets with potentially higher returns
as the Federal Reserve suppresses yields on notes with less
 default risk .  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  last year joined  Redwood Trust Inc. (RWT) 
as the only issuers since the market revived in 2010. They have
completed deals backed by about $2.1 billion of new mortgages
this year, compared with $3.5 billion in all of last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Sales peaked at $1.2
trillion in both 2005 and 2006 before collapsing as prices
tumbled amid soaring foreclosures and  plunging  real-estate
values, sparking a global financial crisis in 2008.  Potential Liabilities  Michael Cosgrove , a spokesman for Jacksonville, Florida-
based EverBank, declined to comment.  Jennifer Zuccarelli , a
spokeswoman for New York-based JPMorgan, didn’t return a
telephone message seeking comment on its transaction.  JPMorgan’s bonds are made riskier by the bank and other
originators of the  mortgages  offering weaker promises to
repurchase misrepresented loans than those on similar deals,
Fitch said yesterday in an e-mailed report.  Lenders and bond sponsors have been seeking to trim
potential liabilities in such deals as the market revives after
suffering billions of dollars of losses from debt sold before
the housing  collapse .  The value of the so-called representations and warranties
in the JPMorgan transaction is “significantly diluted by
qualifying and conditional language that substantially reduces
lender loan-breach liability and the inclusion of sunsets for a
number of provisions including fraud,” New York-based Fitch
analysts including Roelof Slump wrote in a report.  Loss Buffers  The classes of the deal expected to receive top credit
ratings carried loss buffers of 7.4 percent as Fitch said it
adjusted its analysis to reflect the greater investor dangers
created by the weaker contracts, according to the report.  That compares with so-called credit enhancement, created by
items such as other bonds being first in line to absorb losses
from the underlying loans, of 7.05 percent in a Credit Suisse
deal in February and 6.5 percent in a transaction last month by
Redwood, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  EverBank’s securities that may get AAA ratings from Fitch
carry 8.2 percent credit enhancement, according to a separate
report.  The ratings firm said it took into account the risks posed
by the lender not being strong enough financially to count on
for repurchases. EverBank also has a “limited track record” in
the market, and approximately 37 percent of the underlying
borrowers have mortgages on two or more properties, Fitch said.  Kroll Grades  The JPMorgan securities are backed by loans with average
balances of $819,495, while the EverBank bonds are tied to
mortgages averaging $805,302, according to Fitch. That suggests
that the loans are so-called jumbo mortgages as such big debts
dominate the revival in the non-agency bond market led by
Redwood and Credit Suisse.  Jumbo home loans are larger than allowed in government-
supported programs, currently as much as $729,750 for single-
family properties in some areas. For Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac 
loans with the lowest costs for borrowers using 20 percent down
payments, limits range from $417,000 to $625,500, down from as
much $729,750 in 2011.  Kroll Bond Rating Agency plans to assign similar grades to
the JPMorgan bonds as Fitch, according to a report yesterday.  While it also saw the representation and warranty
provisions as a “credit negative,” those features were
mitigated by the debt’s high quality and reviews of all of their
files by a third-party firm, Kroll said in its presale report.  “If similar provisions were present in a transaction that
had lower-quality collateral, was subjected to less robust
third-party diligence review or had a higher proportion of
originators that were potentially financially weaker, Kroll Bond
Rating Agency might forecast higher expected loss levels or
consider a downward adjustment of its ratings,” the firm said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  