-- Lew Presses China on Cybersecurity, Yuan Level as Cyprus Flares
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-20T13:47:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/lew-presses-china-on-cybersecurity-yuan-level-as-cyprus-flares.html
U.S.  Treasury Secretary  Jacob J. Lew said he pressed  China ’s new leadership on cybersecurity,
 North Korea  and exchange rates, as both sides pledged to
cooperate to support domestic and global growth.  “The dominant economic theme was what can be done to
generate more domestic demand and more growth,” Lew told
reporters after a two-day trip to Beijing. “It was clear from
the discussions that China has made a serious commitment to
their reform agenda. The challenge will be to drive forward
toward material progress.”  A market-determined  yuan  is in each nation’s interest, and
“they recognize the need to do it for internal reasons as
well,” Lew said. China’s leaders asked for time to let their
domestic policies work, an administration official said. The
fiscal  crisis in Cyprus  was discussed and was in the background
of Lew’s visit, said the official, who spoke on condition of
anonymity to characterize private talks.  On his first foreign trip as secretary, Lew juggled
meetings with new leaders of the world’s second-largest economy
while monitoring events in Cyprus, whose $18 billion-euro ($23
billion) gross domestic product is about half the size of Rhode
Island’s. President  Barack Obama ’s former chief of staff hadn’t
yet landed in Beijing before the turmoil drew his attention from
the issues of cyber-espionage, North Korea’s nuclear threat and
currency values that topped his China agenda.  Cyprus Fears  Balancing the China visit with events in Cyprus is
“something of a welcome-to-the-Treasury moment” for Lew, said
Clay Lowery, a vice president at Washington-based Rock Creek
Global Advisors LLC and former assistant Treasury secretary for
international affairs during the George W. Bush administration.  “You think you’re worrying about the  budget , the deficit,
the debt ceiling, financial regulation,” Lowery said. “And
then a small country like Cyprus comes up with a lot of
implications. But as former chief of staff, he’s used to dealing
with a lot of issues at the same time.”  While Lew was en route to Beijing, the Treasury Department
released a statement on Cyprus calling for a “responsible and
fair” resolution after a proposed tax on Cypriot bank deposits
unsettled financial markets worldwide.  Cyprus wasn’t a top global issue when Lew was preparing to
take office last month, Lowery said. The Mediterranean island
country wasn’t mentioned during Lew’s three-hour Senate
confirmation hearing Feb. 13. He took office Feb. 28.  Replacing Geithner  Lew’s predecessor,  Timothy F. Geithner , was an
undersecretary for international affairs and an International
Monetary Fund official before becoming Treasury chief. “So it
was presumed that he was in touch with everybody” on the
 European debt crisis , said  Edwin Truman , a Treasury
international official under Geithner during the Bill Clinton
administration.  By making a statement on Cyprus while Lew was traveling to
China, the Treasury was sending a “signal that Secretary Lew is
in charge,” said Truman, a senior fellow at the Peterson
Institute for International Economics in Washington.  Today’s meeting with Chinese Premier  Li Keqiang  took place
in the Purple Light Pavilion in Zhongnanhai, the Communist
Party’s leadership compound next to the Forbidden City in
central Beijing. Lew met yesterday with President Xi Jinping in
the Great Hall of the People, site of this month’s once-in-a-
decade power handover within the party.  On cyber attacks, Lew said “there was no mistaking how
seriously we take this issue” and both nations share a goal of
a denuclearized Korean peninsula.  ‘Provocative Actions’  “We made clear that the U.S. views the provocative actions
of North Korea as very serious and we will continue to pursue
methods available to change the policy perspective in
Pyongyang,” Lew said.  Lew also held talks today with  Wang Qishan , according to a
Treasury official who asked not to be identified. Wang is a
member of the paramount Politburo Standing Committee who was
previously the vice premier overseeing finance, which made him
the counterpart to the U.S. Treasury secretary.  China may decide soon who will be its chief representative
at the Strategic & Economic Dialogue talks with the U.S.,
according to the U.S. official. Wang has previously served as
the main representative.  The Treasury chief met yesterday with National Development
and Reform Commission Chairman Xu Shaoshi and Finance Minister
 Lou Jiwei  and today with People’s Bank of China Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan .  Earlier today, Lew met with executives from U.S. companies
including General Electric Co., United Parcel Service Inc. and
Ford Motor Co., according to the Treasury official. The
executives said priorities included protecting  trade secrets ,
cybersecurity, energy development and challenges in  market
access  in China, the official said.  Xi, 59, succeeded  Hu Jintao  as party chief in November and
replaced him as president March 14. The next day, Li, 57, became
head of government as premier, following his appointment as the
party’s No. 2 official in November.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kasia Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  