-- Ex-News Corp. Tabloid Editor Facing U.K. Bribery Charges
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2013-03-20T12:16:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/ex-news-corp-tabloid-editor-facing-u-k-bribery-charges.html
The former deputy editor of  News
Corp. (NWSA) ’s Sun tabloid will be charged over bribes paid to public
officials for news as part of a wide-ranging probe into
wrongdoing at the company’s U.K. newspapers.  Geoff Webster faces two counts of conspiring to commit
misconduct in relation to authorized payments by reporters to
public officials totaling 8,000 pounds ($12,000) in two separate
incidents between 2010 and 2011, the U.K.’s Crown Prosecution
Service said in a statement today. He would be the 12th person
charged in the probe, known as Operation Elveden.  The bribery investigation grew out of another into phone
hacking by News Corp. journalists, and has led to more than 60
arrests. The Sun is Britain’s best-selling daily and the main
focus of the bribery probe, while the now defunct News of the
World is at the heart of the phone-hacking scandal.  The CPS weighed whether “the public interest served by the
conduct in question outweighs the overall criminality before
bringing criminal proceedings,” Alison Levitt, the principal
legal adviser to the U.K. Director of Public Prosecutions, said
in today’s statement. Webster is scheduled to appear at
Westminster Magistrates Court March 26, she said.  A News International spokeswoman declined to comment on the
charges.  Three former law enforcement officers and a public official
pleaded guilty to taking bribes from Sun journalists on March 8,
the first people to confess in the bribery investigation. John
Kay, the Sun’s former chief reporter, pleaded not guilty on the
same day.  April Casburn, a senior London police detective, was
sentenced on Feb. 1 to 15 months in prison for trying to sell
information about the phone-hacking probe to the News of the
World. She was the first person sentenced in the cases.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  