-- Ex-South Carolina Governor Sanford Moves to House Runoff
-- B y   G r e g   G i r o u x
-- 2013-03-20T01:23:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/ex-south-carolina-governor-sanford-moves-to-house-runoff.html
Former South Carolina governor Mark Sanford was the top vote-getter in a Republican U.S. House
primary today, the first test of his political comeback bid
after acknowledging an extramarital affair four years ago.  Sanford fell short of winning more than 50 percent of the
vote, meaning he will face the second-place finisher in the 16-
candidate Republican field, in a runoff primary on April 2.  The winner will face Democrat Elizabeth Colbert Busch, an
older sister of comedian  Stephen Colbert , in the May 7 special
election to fill the seat that Republican  Tim Scott  vacated when
he  was appointed  to the  U.S. Senate .  Colbert Busch, a business development official with  Clemson
University , had 96 percent of the vote with 99 percent of
precincts reporting to win the Democratic primary against Ben
Frasier, according to the  Associated Press .  In the Republican race, Sanford had 37 percent of the vote
with 99 percent of precincts reporting, according to the AP
tally. Curtis Bostic, a former county council member, was in
second place with 13.2 percent, and Larry Grooms, a state
senator, was in third with 12.5 percent.  Other Republican contenders included Teddy Turner IV, a son
of billionaire media executive  Ted Turner  who had 7.9 percent of
the vote.  Sanford, 52, is seeking a return to political life more
than two years after leaving the governorship he held from 2003
to 2011. He acknowledged an extramarital affair in 2009,
visiting Maria Belen Chapur in Argentina without informing his
staff and security detail of his whereabouts. Sanford, who was
formally censured by South Carolina’s House of Representatives,
rejected calls to resign and served out his second term.  2012 Engagement  He and his wife, Jenny Sanford, divorced in 2010. In 2012,
he announced his engagement to Chapur.  Sanford served in the House from 1995 to 2001, representing
essentially the same district he’s now seeking.  South Carolina’s 1st District includes parts of five
counties in and around Charleston and tilts Republican. Its
voters backed Republican presidential nominee  Mitt Romney  with
about 58 percent of the vote in last November’s election.  Scott, 47, was named by South Carolina Gov. Nikki Haley to
fill the Senate seat that Republican Jim DeMint gave up to
become head of the  Heritage Foundation , a Washington-based
small-government policy group. Scott, who first won his House
seat in 2010, was sworn into Senate in early January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Giroux in Washington at 
 ggiroux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Jeanne
Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net  