-- JPMorgan Pays $100 Million in MF Global Trustee Accord
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y   a n d   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2013-03-20T16:02:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/mf-global-inc-trustee-reaches-agreement-with-jpmorgan.html
A  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  unit reached
a $100 million settlement with  MF Global Inc. (MFGLQ)  liquidators over
the bank’s conduct in the days before and after the brokerage’s
collapse, paving the way for the return of money to its former
customers.  The agreement follows a year of negotiations and the review
of more than 100,000 documents, according to papers filed
yesterday in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in  Manhattan . It resolves
claims against JPMorgan arising from transfers of customer
property in the days leading up to MF Global’s bankruptcy and
the company’s actions as one of the brokerage’s primary banks
and repository for customer property.  James W. Giddens, a trustee for the liquidating brokerage,
seeks to return an additional $200 million to customers as a
result of the settlement, which also recoups $29 million in MF
Global funds held at the bank and completes a previous return of
$417 million by JPMorgan, according to a statement.  “This is a favorable and economically sound agreement
ending what would have been a costly, protracted, and uncertain
legal battle,” Giddens said in yesterday’s statement. “Without
the agreement, additional substantial distributions would have
been delayed for at least two or three years.”  Key Lender  MF Global Holdings Ltd., the parent company once run by
former New Jersey Governor and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Co-
Chairman  Jon Corzine , filed for bankruptcy in 2011 after a
wrong-way $6.3 billion trade on its own behalf on bonds of some
of  Europe ’s most indebted nations. Most MF Global client funds
were held in JPMorgan accounts, and the bank was a key lender to
the parent before it collapsed in the eighth-largest U.S
bankruptcy.  The agreement announced yesterday resolves all outstanding
matters between JPMorgan and the MF Global estate, its customers
and creditors, said  Jennifer Zuccarelli , a spokeswoman for the
New York-based bank.  Giddens examined JPMorgan’s role as the main custodian of
MF Global’s customer property, its activities as a clearing
bank, and its actions after the bankruptcy, including
liquidating customer property and using proceeds to satisfy its
secured claims against the brokerage.  U.K. Transfer  The most significant issues resolved by the settlement
involved transfers of customer property to satisfy obligations,
including the shift of $175 million to MF Global’s U.K. unit,
Giddens said. JPMorgan asserted “that the bank did not know and
otherwise had no basis to know that the transfers were of
customer funds,” lawyers for Giddens wrote in court papers.  JPMorgan will get a $60 million general unsecured claim in
the brokerage liquidation and the companies won’t pursue any
other claims against each other, according to court papers.  The settlement doesn’t involve class-action lawsuits
brought against individuals at MF Global, including Corzine,
according to court papers. Potential lawsuits against the
“primary wrongdoers” in MF Global’s collapse may provide
further recoveries, lawyers for former customers including
Paradigm Global Fund said in court papers filed yesterday.  Former customers bringing class-action lawsuits support the
settlement because it avoids “the significant risk that a
smaller recovery -- or indeed, no recovery -- might result after
protracted litigation against JPMorgan that could last years,”
according to court papers.  Judges’ Approval  The proposed settlement will be submitted to the judge
overseeing the class-action suits, U.S. District Judge  Victor
Marrero , at the same time as it goes to U.S. Bankruptcy Judge
Martin Glenn, Giddens said.  If approved by the courts, Giddens projected that
distributions to former domestic customers will be more than
93 cents on the dollar, exceeding the predicted range of 75
percent and 82 percent for foreign customers. Remaining
shortfalls may be repaid through other litigation or
distributions of unallocated property, Giddens said.  The JPMorgan agreement secures the release of about
$90 million to  KPMG  LLP, the administrators of MF Global’s U.K.
unit, Giddens said. MF Global in January settled its conflict
with KPMG over which unit owned disputed assets, giving Giddens
an additional $600 million to return to clients and creditors.  JPMorgan was agent for a $1.2 billion loan to MF Global’s
parent company before its failure, and also loaned money to the
brokerage and other affiliates, according to court documents.  The brokerage and parent went into separate bankruptcies.
The parent is under control of a Chapter 11 trustee. Giddens was
named brokerage trustee by the Securities Investor Protection
Corp.  The holding company’s Chapter 11 case is In re MF Global
Holdings Ltd., 11-15059,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern
District of  New York  (Manhattan). The liquidation of the broker
is In re MF Global Inc., 11-02790, in the same court.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net ;
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  