-- Failed Baltic Bank Risks Breaking Hearts 1,000 Miles Away
-- B y   B r y a n   B r a d l e y
-- 2013-03-20T12:35:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/failed-baltic-bank-raises-risk-of-broken-hearts-1-000-miles-away.html
Vladimir Romanov bought Heart of
Midlothian eight years ago and promised to wipe out debt,
replace its aging stadium and boost dwindling crowds.  After the collapse of the Lithuanian bank at the core of
his business empire, Romanov is set to leave the Edinburgh
 soccer club  as he found it: battling for survival. Regulators
last month closed  Ukio Bankas AB (UKB1L) , which financed Romanov’s
international sport, aluminum and real-estate projects.  “He had a lot of dreams, but his dreams never came true,”
former Hearts team manager Csaba Laszlo said in an interview
last week. “It’s not a nice story.”  Romanov, 65, first invested in Hearts in 2004, a year after
Russian billionaire  Roman Abramovich  took control of Chelsea in
 London  and spent millions on new players. While acknowledging he
had a fraction of the wealth, Romanov, also Russian-born,
similarly promised a rise through the ranks of soccer. Last
year, Chelsea won the Champion’s League, the top trophy in
European club football, as Hearts struggled to pay a tax bill.  Rather than become a new home fit for elite European
competition, Hearts’s Tynecastle stadium in the west of the
Scottish capital is pledged to Ukio as security for debts, as
are the shares that give him control of the club.  Romanov, who first publicly mooted the sale of Hearts in
November 2011, said his downfall was engineered by rival banks
in conspiracy with Lithuanian authorities.  Destruction  “The goal of those who took my bank was not just to take
the bank but to destroy all my business,” Romanov, who last
year founded the Lithuanian People’s Party and won 0.25 percent
of votes in a parliamentary election, said by phone on March 1.  The Bank of  Lithuania  suspended Ukio’s activities on Feb.
12 and permanently revoked its license a week later, saying
risky loans to parties related to Romanov had driven the bank to
insolvency. Romanov owns 64.9 percent of Ukio, filings show.
Some of the loans went to Ukio Banko Investicine Grupe, or UBIG,
through which he controls 79 percent of Hearts.  “There’s no conspiracy,” Raimondas Kuodis, deputy
chairman of the Lithuanian central bank, said by telephone
yesterday. “Such accusations are mere defense tactics. The bank
simply had big negative capital and according to the law could
no longer operate.”  It will be several months before Ukio’s eventual bankruptcy
administrator might come calling on Hearts to pay back borrowing
or forfeit its stadium, according to the lender’s temporary
administrator, Adomas Audickas.  Tax Bill  Romanov said the club’s debt is about 20 million pounds,
roughly what it was when he took over. Hearts sold shares last
year to supporters to raise money for a tax bill and the
prospectus put the debt at 24 million pounds, including 1.75
million pounds owed to the taxman. It said the club would face
liquidation should UBIG demand repayment.  Hearts fans “certainly have time” to sort out club
finances and seek a new savior, assuming cash flows suffice for
player salaries and other obligations, Audickas said in a March
15 phone interview from Kaunas, where Ukio is based. A
supporters group is in talks to acquire the club.  “If anyone wants to try to rescue the club, they should be
talking with UBIG,” he said.  Hearts was  founded in 1874 , a year before Edinburgh rival
Hibernian, and named after a dancing club in the city during the
Victorian era. The team, which plays in maroon and white, last
won the Scottish championship in 1960, a league that has been
dominated by Glasgow clubs Rangers and Celtic.  Cup Victories  There was some success under Romanov. After building his
stake in Hearts, he assumed its debt, 19.2 million pounds at the
time, and looked into expanding the stadium or replacing it.  On the field, things started looking up during the first
season of Romanov’s tenure. As Hearts won games, its 18,000-seat
Tynecastle stadium sold out, up from an average attendance of
12,000 the previous season. Hearts finished second in the league
and qualified for the Champion’s League preliminary rounds.  Hearts went on to win the Scottish Cup in 2006 and again
last year, beating Hibernian in the final. It lost to St. Mirren
in the final of the second-tier League Cup last weekend.  “For all the criticism, there have been two cup wins and I
grew up thinking Hearts were never going to win anything,”
Graeme Downie, 32, a communications consultant and a Hearts
season-ticket holder, said on March 14. “He took us over in a
bad state, and if he hands us over to someone else in the same
way, after two trophies, I don’t think I can complain.”  Revolving Door  In the club, Romanov appointed Lithuanians, including his
son, to the board and gained a reputation for firing managers.
Laszlo, 49, a Romanian-born Hungarian, is among  10 managers  to
have come and gone at Hearts under Romanov.  Laszlo said he was fired in early 2010 after 18 months in
the job and seven straight victories. No explanation was ever
given, he said by telephone on March 12. Laszlo is currently
coach of the Lithuanian national team.  The problem for Romanov is that while he has “many good
business ideas,” his associates don’t challenge the ones that
aren’t so good, according to Laszlo. Manager John McGlynn, who
started in June, left at the end of last month by mutual
agreement, according to the club’s website.  Gary Locke , a former
Hearts player, was named to replace him on March 16.  Romanov, who served on a Soviet nuclear submarine and
worked as a taxi driver and electrician, said last week he’s
structured his diverse businesses to “insure” them against
“thieves” and “perverts.” He intends to fight for his
property in court against Lithuanian authorities.  Needing Money  FC Kaunas, a soccer club in Lithuania’s second-biggest
city, closed in 2012 after Romanov withdrew the previous year.
Zalgiris basketball club, also in Kaunas and 75 percent owned by
UBIG, this month asked for financial help from fans to survive.  Zalgiris players will stop training within a week if new
management, which was announced today and excludes Romanov,
doesn’t pay the four months of wages they are owed, team captain
 Paulius Jankunas  said in a statement on the club’s website.  As for Hearts, Romanov said realizing the club’s potential
demands more resources than he now has. He’s seeking outside
investors to help rescue and revive the Edinburgh squad. “We
could sell part of the club, or all of it,” he said.  Hearts Director Sergejus Fedotovas said on March 4 by e-
mail that a “number of investors” expressed interest “without
any detailed proposal as to acquisition or otherwise.”  Alex Mackie of  Foundation of Hearts , a group that wants to
buy it on behalf of fans, said it won’t be easy to save the club
because it’s losing about 2 million pounds a year as well as
players. Banks won’t lend, investors aren’t likely to pay
Romanov what he thinks his shares are worth, and other
shareholders now have empty pockets after the recent stock sale.  “He’s not lived up to what he promised,” said Downie, the
season-ticket holder. “But any Hearts fan who believed
everything he said at the time was very naïve.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bryan Bradley in Vilnius at 
 bbradley13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  