-- FAW Surges Most in 4 Years on Procurement Report: Shenzhen Mover
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-20T04:19:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/faw-surges-most-in-4-years-on-procurement-report-shenzhen-mover.html
FAW Car Co. (000800)  jumped the most in more
than four years in Shenzhen trading on speculation the Chinese
automaker will benefit from increased government purchases of
domestic vehicles.  FAW surged by the 10 percent daily limit as of 11:13 a.m.
local time, poised for the biggest gain since Nov. 19, 2008, to
8.34  yuan . SAIC Motor Corp., the largest automaker, advanced 3.4
percent to 15.40 yuan. Beiqi Foton Motor Co. added 3.3 percent
to 6.63 yuan. The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  rose 1.8 percent,
while the Shenzhen Composite Index gained 2 percent.  Over 10 Chinese provinces and central goverment departments
have procured “large batches” of China FAW Group Corp.’s Red
Flag H7 cars, the official Xinhua News Agency reported
yesterday, citing Xu Xianping, its general manager. China should
order foreign automakers to contribute more to develop local
brands and limit those whose sole aim is to win more sales, FAW
Group, parent of FAW Car, said March 5.  “The news of the government’s plan to purchase more
domestically made Red Flag cars is boosting automakers,” said
 Wang Zheng , Shanghai-based chief investment officer at Jingxi
Investment Management Co., which manages $120 million.
“Domestic car makers are going to benefit from government
procurement. Today’s rally is also a re-rating of investors’
pessimistic view about auto sales outlooks. Things are actually
not as bad as they expected.”  Chinese automakers have been urging the government to take
more steps to protect homegrown companies, which are facing
intensifying competition from foreign manufacturers expanding in
the world’s largest vehicle market. Competition for market share
is poised to intensify as foreign automakers led by  General
Motors Co. (GM)  and Volkswagen AG step up their push into smaller
cities traditionally dominated by local brands.  Wholesale deliveries may gain 7 percent this year to 20.65
million units, led by demand for passenger vehicles, the state-
backed China Association of Automobile Manufacturers said in a
statement in Beijing on Jan. 11.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net ;
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allen Wan at 
 awan3@bloomberg.net  