-- FedEx Falls After Lowering 2013 Forecast Amid Asia Cuts
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2013-03-20T20:14:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/fedex-cuts-2013-forecast-on-shift-to-cheaper-shipments.html
FedEx Corp. (FDX)  tumbled the most since
September 2011 after lowering its 2013 earnings  forecast  and
planning capacity cuts in Asia amid a widening customer shift to
its cheaper overseas delivery services.  Profit in the fiscal year through May will be $6 to $6.20 a
share, down from an earlier projection of as much as $6.60, the
Memphis, Tennessee-based company said in a statement today. The
forecast and fiscal third-quarter profit both trailed analysts’
estimates.  FedEx, an economic bellwether that moves goods as varied as
medical supplies and auto parts, is in the midst of a $1.7
billion restructuring to compensate for customers moving away
from its fastest, most expensive deliveries. FedEx, which said
it’s making the  Asia  reductions after a $100 million drop in
international revenue, is studying grounding some planes.  “The fact that shipper preferences are going toward
cheaper transportation should not be a surprise,” said David Vernon, a Sanford C Bernstein & Co. analyst with a market
perform rating on FedEx. “We’re hearing it from our contacts
across the industry. The ultimate impact on the business was
much worse than anybody had expected, us included.”  The operator of the world’s largest cargo airline  fell  6.9
percent to $99.13 at 4 p.m. in  New York , for the steepest drop
since Sept. 22, 2011. Analysts had  estimated  that FedEx would
post full-year profit of $6.35, the average in a Bloomberg
survey.  Gain Eroded  The shares previously gained 16 percent this year,
 outpacing  an 8.6 percent gain by the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
and a 15 percent advance by competitor  United Parcel Service
Inc. (UPS)   The service changes in Asia are in addition to the
restructuring already under way, the company said.  FedEx “got a little ahead of our skis” in putting
capacity into the U.S.-Asia air freight market, Chief Executive
Officer  Fred Smith  said on a conference call today. As customers
moved away from overnight shipments to deferred deliveries, the
company found itself carrying too many low-priced packages on
expensive aircraft.  As a result, FedEx will reduce air capacity and push lower-
yielding goods to cheaper shipping networks, such as ocean and
ground, within the company, said Dave Rebholz, chief executive
of FedEx Express.  ‘Healthy Volumes’  Total “volumes are pretty healthy, but when you dial down
and see where volumes are healthy, it’s on much lower-yielding
freight,” Logan Purk, a St. Louis-based analyst at Edward Jones
& Co. who has a buy rating on the shares, said in an interview.
“When you look at yields, they’re compressing. That’s what’s
biting FedEx.”  The company raised its forecast for U.S. economic expansion
this calendar year to 2 percent from 1.9 percent previously, and
said it expects growth next year of 2.5 percent. Global GDP will
rise 2.3 percent this year and 3 percent in 2014, the company
said.  The restructuring plan focuses on FedEx Express, the
 largest unit , where the company plans to generate $1.55 billion
in cost cuts and profit improvement by trimming jobs, replacing
older planes and cutting fuel-guzzling vehicles.  The company reduced by $100 million the estimated pre-tax
cost of a voluntary employee buyout, in part because it’s not
filling open positions. The expense now is estimated at $450
million to $550 million in fiscal 2013. Eligible workers will
notify FedEx by April 1 whether they will accept offers.  Fourth Quarter  Earnings this quarter will be $1.90 to $2.10, the company
said, below an estimate of $2.12 from analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  The fiscal fourth-quarter and full-year predictions exclude
costs related to the restructuring. Including those expenses,
profit will be 94 cents to $1.34 a share this quarter, and $4.91
to $5.31 for all of 2013.  In the fiscal third quarter, which ended in February,
earnings excluding costs for the employee buyout program were
$1.23 a share. That missed the $1.38-a-share average estimate of
25 analysts, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Including $47 million for the buyout and related
restructuring expenses,  net income  was $361 million, or $1.13 a
share, compared with $521 million, or $1.65, a year earlier,
FedEx said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  