-- FedEx Pares Asia Flights Amid Shift to Cheaper Deliveries
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2013-03-20T22:11:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/fedex-pares-asia-flights-amid-shift-to-cheaper-deliveries.html
FedEx Corp. (FDX)  plans to cut cargo
flights to Asia as customers accelerate their shift to the
company’s slower, less expensive international services.  The shipping company is making the changes after missing
analysts’ estimates yesterday on both fiscal third-quarter
profit and its full-year forecast. An economic bellwether that
moves goods as varied as medical supplies and auto parts, FedEx
had already begun a $1.7 billion restructuring to make up for a
move away from its fastest, most expensive deliveries.  “The trade lane between Asia and the U.S., in particular,
remains weak in terms of air freight,” said Logan Purk, a St.
Louis-based analyst at Edward Jones & Co. who has a buy rating
on the shares. “With FedEx leveraged more to a discretionary
air-freight model, they suffer.”  The company, which operates a shipping hub at  Guangzhou ,
 China , and plans to open one in  Osaka ,  Japan , is also studying
grounding some planes.  FedEx “got a little ahead of our skis” in putting
capacity into the U.S.-Asia air freight market, Chief Executive
Officer Fred Smith said on a conference call yesterday. As
customers moved away from overnight shipments to deferred
deliveries, the Memphis, Tennessee-based company found itself
carrying too many low-priced packages on expensive aircraft.  The company will use the capacity cut to push lower-
yielding goods to cheaper shipping networks, such as ocean and
ground, within the company, said Dave Rebholz, chief executive
of FedEx Express.  Cheaper Transportation  “The fact that shipper preferences are going toward
cheaper transportation should not be a surprise,” said David Vernon, a Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. analyst with a market
perform rating on FedEx. “We’re hearing it from our contacts
across the industry. The ultimate impact on the business was
much worse than anybody had expected, us included.”  FedEx dropped 6.9 percent to $99.13 at the close of  New
York  trading, the steepest drop since Sept. 22, 2011. The
company’s stock now trades at a  discount  of 13 percent to rival
 United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)   While the company’s package volume was “pretty healthy”
in the fiscal third quarter, much of the shipments involved
lower-yielding freight, said Purk.  “That’s what’s biting FedEx,” he said.  The Asian cutbacks, slated to start April 1, are in
addition to the existing restructuring that focuses on FedEx
Express, the  largest unit . There, the company plans to generate
$1.55 billion in cost cuts and profit improvement by trimming
jobs, replacing older planes and cutting fuel-guzzling vehicles.  Fourth Quarter  Earnings this quarter will be $1.90 to $2.10, the company
said, below an estimate of $2.12 from analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  The company reduced by $100 million the estimated pre-tax
cost of a voluntary employee buyout, in part because it’s not
filling open positions. The company now projects an expense of
$450 million to $550 million in fiscal 2013. Eligible workers
will notify FedEx by April 1 whether they will accept offers.  For the full fiscal year, which ends in May, FedEx now
predicts earnings of $6 to $6.20 a share, down from an earlier
projection of $6.20 to $6.60 a share.  In the fiscal third quarter, which ended in February,
earnings excluding costs for the buyout were $1.23 a share. That
missed the $1.38-a-share average estimate of 25 analysts,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Including $47 million for the buyout and related
restructuring expenses,  net income  was $361 million, or $1.13 a
share, compared with $521 million, or $1.65, a year earlier,
FedEx said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  