-- Female Who Shocked Khomeini Zaps ‘Fallaci’: S.F. Stage
-- B y   S t e p h e n   W e s t
-- 2013-03-20T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/female-who-shocked-khomeini-zaps-fallaci-s-f-stage.html
A generation ago, Oriana Fallaci
was one of the most famous journalists in the world,
interviewing Fidel Castro, Indira Gandhi, Henry Kissinger and
the Ayatollah 3`1Khomeini, among other global history makers.  These days she’s hardly remembered, though her influence on
television news programs like “60 Minutes” is unmistakable.  Now Lawrence Wright, the New Yorker magazine reporter and
Pulitzer Prize-winning author, has devised “Fallaci,” a
biographical play in the form of an interview, at  Berkeley
Repertory Theatr e.  Concetta Tomei stars as the boundary-defying reporter. The
director is Oskar Eustis, taking a break from his duties as
artistic director of New York’s  Public Theater . Wright and
Eustis previously collaborated on “The Human Scale,” about Gaza.  Maryam (Marjan Neshat), a journalist assigned to profile
the great woman, knocks on the door of Fallaci’s cluttered New
York apartment in July 2000 and manages to talk her way in.
She’s 25, pretty and Iranian.  Fallaci, cigarette in hand and with “Tosca” playing on
the stereo, grants her 25 minutes. She urges Maryam to behave as
Fallaci herself would with a reluctant subject: “Attack. Stun
them from the start.”  The writer proves she’s up to the challenge, noting that
Fallaci has fallen out of the public eye and asking whether she
has anything left to say.  “You are perhaps a little cruel,” Fallaci says.  “Thank you,” Maryam replies.  Crazy Shah  Over the next hour we get a highlights tour of Fallaci’s
life and career -- her work with her father in the Italian
resistance during World War II, her days as a war correspondent
in  Vietnam  and the Middle East, her encounters with world
leaders (the smelly Castro, the “insane” Shah of  Iran ).  Fallaci’s best story recalls her explosive interview with
Khomeini, whom she attacked “because I did not accept to be
treated like a maid, like he treats all women.” She questioned
why women must wear the chador, a “stupid, medieval rag,” and
then took off her head scarf, prompting the shocked Khomeini to
flee the room.  Fallaci comes across as fearless and crusading -- and not
without vanity. Her stories could be self-serving and sometimes
contradict each other.  After a short blackout -- the show runs 90 minutes with no
intermission -- Maryam returns to the apartment for another
interview. Three years later, the conversation is more didactic.
Fallaci reveals her contempt for Islam in the post-Sept. 11
world.  Recycled Quotes  Eustis’s polished production in this world premiere
succeeds as a biography of a complicated and not altogether
likable person. It’s less effective as theater, with a lot of
tell and very little show. Too many lines sound as though
they’re quoting from her books and interviews rather than
growing organically out of a real conversation.  Accuracy doesn’t trump drama. As Fallaci tells Maryam:
“You must be willing to hurt someone to get the truth out of
him.”  “Fallaci” runs through April 21 at  Berkeley Repertory
Theatre , 2025 Addison St. Information: +1-510-647-2949;
 http://www.berkeleyrep.org . Rating: ***  ‘Dead Metaphor’  A soldier, home from the Middle East and jobless, would
seem like unpromising material for a comedy. Yet Canadian
playwright George F. Walker pulls off the feat, getting plenty
of laughs with “Dead Metaphor” in its San Francisco premiere.  Dean meets with a job counselor, Oliver, who asks about his
background in the military. Dean says he was a tank driver and
then a marksman.  “You’re a sniper?” the bureaucrat asks.  “Yes.”  Making a note in his file, Oliver summarizes Dean’s talents
matter-of-factly: “You kill people at a distance.”  This appeals to Oliver’s wife, Helen, a brittle,
conservative politician, who happens to be looking for an aide
with Dean’s skill set. (In making his case for a job, Dean
mentions to Oliver that he had 18 kills. “Just so they know I’m
efficient.”)  At a backyard barbecue we meet Dean’s wife and his parents.
His cranky left-wing father, Hank, suffering from a terminal
illness, already knows something about Helen and her political
fundraising methods.  The story veers from melodrama to sitcom, aided by clever
punchlines and sharp performances of cartoonish characters,
especially Rene Augesen as Helen and Tom Bloom as Hank. Directed
by Irene Lewis, the story begins to run off the rails in the
second act, as the satire moves into plots and counterplots that
strain credibility. Still, it’s fun while it lasts.  “Dead Metaphor” runs through March 24 at  American
Conservatory Theater , 415 Geary St., San Francisco. Information:
+1-415-749-2228;  http://www.act-sf.org . Rating: ***  (Stephen West is an editor for Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this story:
Stephen West in San Francisco at 
 smwest@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 