-- Feud Threatens Russia Port Profits as CEO Is Suspended: Freight
-- B y   J a k e   R u d n i t s k y   a n d   E k a t e r i n a   S h a t a l o v a
-- 2013-03-21T17:30:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/feud-threatens-novorossiysk-profits-as-oil-volumes-fall-freight.html
A fight for control of  OAO
Novorossiysk Commercial Sea Port (NCSP) , owner of  Russia ’s two biggest
oil-export terminals, threatens plans to diversify into grain
and cargoes that are more profitable than crude.  OAO Transneft, a shareholder and Russia’s oil-pipeline
operator, is seeking to bring in OAO Rosneft, the state-run
crude producer, to buy the government’s 20 percent stake in the
port company and bolster its position. A feud erupted between
Transneft and its partner Summa Group over management last
month, and Novorossiysk Chief Executive Officer Rado Antolovic
stepped aside March 19 amid a criminal investigation.  Rosneft’s entry may threaten Novorossiysk’s shift away from
oil, hurting its share price, said Andrey Rozhkov, a Moscow-
based transportation analyst at IFC Metropol. Crude accounts for
about 70 percent of cargo volume and less than 30 percent of
revenue, according to company statements. Shipments, about 40
percent of exports from Russia, the world’s biggest oil
 producer , fell last year and may be little changed this year.  “Rosneft doesn’t bring much to the table in terms of the
port’s management, and other  oil companies  don’t want to see it
among the shareholders,” Rozhkov said. “Rosneft CEO  Igor Sechin  is looking to consolidate oil distribution and
transportation properties.”  Transneft last month dropped a demand to change management
at the port after agreeing with Summa, controlled by businessman
Ziyavudin Magomedov, to elect Maxim Grishanin, the pipeline
operator’s first vice president, as Novorossiysk’s board
chairman. Summa and Transneft hold 50.1 percent of the port
group known as NCSP through a joint venture.  Extending Losses  The port operator’s global depositary receipts  fell  5.4
percent at $8.10 in  London  today, the lowest since Jan. 30,
after the board suspended Antolovic and set a vote for a new CEO
on June 18. The stock had soared 34 percent this year to a peak
of $9.53 on Feb. 14.  Antolovic said he was stepping aside “temporarily” and
would defend himself against “groundless” charges, according
to a March 19 statement relayed by the company’s press service.  Novorossiysk’s offices were raided for documents on March
15 in connection with a claim that in 2011 a former acting CEO
of the port stole $1.5 million paid by a local client to extend
a contract, the Investigative Committee said on its  website . The
statement didn’t identify the suspect by name.  The company’s board named Executive Director Yuriy Matvienko acting CEO, according to a March 20  statement  on
Transneft’s website.  ‘Clear Pressure’  “We’re seeing clear pressure on the company and its
management, including the recent checks by the investigative
committee,” Kirill Kazanli, a Moscow-based analyst at Citigroup
Inc., said in a March 15 telephone interview. “In my opinion,
the end goal is to get control over the oil-handling
terminals.” Citigroup rates Novorossiysk the equivalent of
hold.  There is no conflict between Transneft and Summa, said a
Summa official who asked not to be identified, citing company
policy. Summa will decide whether to bid for the state’s stake
after the terms and conditions of the sale are set, he said.  “The government will act in its own best interest,” Igor
Dyomin, a Transneft spokesman, said by phone March 18. “We will
continue to develop the port.”  Crude volumes fell at Novorossiysk’s port in the Black Sea
city of the same name and its Primorsk facility on the  Baltic
Sea  last year, after Russia opened new oil-export capacity at
Ust-Luga near  St. Petersburg  and expanded Kozmino port on the
Pacific coast.  Falling Volumes  In the first two months of 2013, handling fell to 15.8
million tons, down 17 percent from a year earlier, the company
said March 14. The Black Sea crude-oil volumes probably will
drop by 12 percent this month, according to a loading program
obtained by Bloomberg.  Novorossiysk’s strategic plan to 2020, approved last year,
called for the expansion of high-margin freight, such as
containers, refined products and bulk cargo. The port charges
about $2.70 a ton to handle liquids such as crude, while it
earns between $5 and $8 for each ton of grain, Rozhkov said.
Metropol has a buy recommendation on Novorossiysk.  The government plans a sale of Novorossiysk shares this
year, probably missing the “spring window,” Olga Dergunova,
the head of Federal Property Management Agency, said in Moscow
last month. The port may sell new stock to dilute the state’s
holding, or a strategic investor may buy the stake, she said.  State companies will be allowed to participate in
privatizations only as a junior partner in a venture, she said.  Grain, Metals  Rosneft and Transneft may seek to take over the port
group’s crude and oil-product export terminals and leave Summa
in control of the grain, metals, containers and coal terminals,
according to Kazanli. Summa controls almost 50 percent of
Russian trader United Grain Co.  Sechin, a former aide to President  Vladimir Putin , has
built Rosneft into Russia’s largest oil company through
acquisitions and is carrying out a $55 billion takeover of TNK-
BP, Russia’s third-biggest oil company, to become the world’s
largest publicly traded crude producer by volume.  More than 30 strategic investors may be interested in
buying the government’s stake, including United Capital Partners
Fund, owned by Ilya Sherbovich, who is on the boards of Rosneft
and Transneft, Vedomosti newspaper reported this month, citing
an unidentified person with knowledge of the state’s sale plans.  “It’s very likely that Rosneft may become a shareholder in
Novorossiysk port,” Kazanli said. “Sechin has said more than
once that he believes NCSP is a strategic asset that should
remain under state control.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jake Rudnitsky in Moscow at 
 jrudnitsky@bloomberg.net ;
Ekaterina Shatalova in Moscow at 
 eshatalova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Melinda Grenier at 
 mgrenier1@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  