-- Forint Gains Second Day on Forex Debtors, Technical Indicator
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-03-20T11:05:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/forint-gains-second-day-on-forex-debtors-technical-indicator.html
The forint strengthened for a
second day on speculation  Hungary  will avoid dramatic policy
measures to help foreign-currency debtors and as a technical
indicator suggested the currency’s slide to a 14-month low may
have been overdone.  The forint dropped 4.8 percent in the month through March
18 on bets the government will press the central bank to cut
interest rates to a record and will unveil measures to help
foreign-currency loan holders. The slump pushed the forint’s 14-
day relative-strength index to 27 on March 18 and 30 yesterday,
levels which shows to some analysts that a security’s decline is
excessive. The RSI last traded at 37.  “The forint looks oversold based on indicators including
RSI,” Zoltan Arokszallasi, a Budapest-based analyst at Erste
Group Bank AG, wrote in a research report today. “It’s not
surprising that it’s correcting a bit in the positive
direction.”  The forint strengthened 0.4 percent to 304.17 per euro by
10:48 a.m. in Budapest after hitting 308.65 two days ago. Yields
on the government’s 10-year bonds fell one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 6.532 percent, the lowest since March 11.  Hungary doesn’t plan “dramatic” policy measures to help
foreign-currency borrowers as lenders and the government are
discussing “market-based” solutions for overdue repayments,
Daniel Gyuris, the acting head of the Hungarian Banking
Association, said in a phone interview yesterday.  Debt  While Gyuris’s comments “should be good news,” Prime
Minister Viktor Orban’s comments last week that Hungary needs to
solve its foreign-currency debt problem to free up its exchange
rate policy “leaves us with the impression that the government
is still interested in a weak currency after all,” Gabor
Malatinszky, a Budapest-based analyst at DZ Bank AG, wrote in a
research report today.  Commercial lenders are working on a plan to help as many as
80,000 debtors who are more than 90 days overdue with their
repayments and may present their proposals to the government
within a week, daily Nepszabadsag reported today.  The Nepszabadsag report supported the forint as it may mean
the burden on banks and on Hungary’s foreign-currency reserves
will be limited, Karoly Bamli, a Budapest-based trader at
Commerzbank AG, wrote in an e-mail today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  