-- Ex-Bell, California, Council Members Found Guilty by Jury
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2013-03-21T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/former-bell-california-council-member-found-guilty.html
The jury that convicted five former
members of Bell,  California ’s council of misappropriating public
funds may need to deliberate further on charges for which the
panel couldn’t reach a verdict.  The Los Angeles state court jury acquitted one of six
defendants yesterday in its fourth week of deliberations
following a four-week trial. Jurors told the judge they couldn’t
reach a consensus on a total of 42 counts against the other five
defendants.  Oscar Hernandez, 65, Teresa Jacobo, 55, George Mirabal, 63
Luis Artiga, 52, George Cole, 63, and Victor Bello, 54, were
accused of misappropriating about $1.2 million in public funds
by getting paid almost $8,000 a month for attending board
meetings that prosecutors said never took place or lasted only a
few minutes. Artiga was acquitted on all counts.  The jury found the other five guilty for payments they
received as members of the solid waste and recycling authority
and not guilty for payments as members of the public financing
authority. Jurors didn’t return verdicts for the payments the
five received for sitting on the surplus property authority and
the community housing authority.  Superior Court Judge Kathleen Kennedy sent the jury home
and said that today she would address written questions provided
by the jurors who told her that further instruction and
deliberation might help them reach a verdict on the remaining
charges.  The trial didn’t include former city manager  Robert Rizzo ,
who was charged with 53 counts of misappropriation and conflict
of interest and accused of giving about $1.9 million in
unauthorized loans to himself and others. Rizzo and former
assistant city manager Angela Spaccia will be tried in a
separate case.  Median Income  Bell, located about 10 miles (16 kilometers) southeast of
Los Angeles, has five council members who serve part-time and
select the city’s mayor from among themselves. The median
household income of the city’s residents is $37,121 and 93
percent of them are Hispanic, according to U.S. Census data.
Twenty-five percent live below the poverty line.  All eight of the officials were arrested in September 2010
and accused of misappropriating more than $5.5 million. The Bell
scandal, with Rizzo receiving $800,000 a year to run a city of
38,000, has put the pay of municipal executives under scrutiny.
The median salary for California’s city managers in 2009 was
$187,728, according to the state controller’s office.  Representatives of the  Los Angeles  County district
attorney’s office didn’t return a call for comment yesterday on
the verdicts that were returned.  Stanley Friedman, a lawyer for Hernandez, said outside the
courtroom that he was encouraged by the not-guilty verdicts.  ‘God Bless’  “I want to thank the jury from the bottom of my heart,”
Artiga said at a press conference. “God bless them.”  “While today’s guilty ruling for five of the Bell Six
helps bring some closure and justice to our community, there are
still trial cases which remain pending -- the trials of those
remaining assailants that in my view plundered our city’s
resources and shackled Bell’s hardworking families with an
overwhelming tax burden,” Bell Mayor Ali Saleh said in a
statement.  In a separate case, a state court of appeals yesterday
reinstated a lawsuit brought by California Attorney General
 Kamala Harris  who, on behalf of the city, seeks to hold the
defendants in the two criminal cases liable for the losses they
caused to Bell.  Prosecutors alleged that the six former council members on
trial were paid for “phantom” committee meetings on four
boards, the Solid Waste Authority, Surplus Property Authority,
Public Finance Authority and Community Housing Authority, from
the start of 2006 through July 2010.  Lawyers for the six defendants argued that their clients
were unaware that the compensation they received was tied to
specific boards rather than part of their overall salary as
council members.  Legally Authorized  Shepard Kopp, Jacobo’s lawyer, said in his closing argument
that the prosecution failed to prove Jacobo knew the payments
she received weren’t legally authorized or that she should have
known they were legally unauthorized.  “There is no limit on what council members could be paid
for their service on the various authorities they worked on,”
Kopp told the jury. “There was affirmative legal authority that
allowed them to receive these payments.”  The case is People v. Hernandez, BA376025, California
Superior Court, Los Angeles County (Los Angeles).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  