-- Former UBS Executive Didn’t Seek Underage Prostitutes
-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 2013-03-20T08:06:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/former-ubs-executive-didn-t-seek-underage-prostitutes.html
Juerg Buergin, a former  UBS AG (UBSN) 
executive on trial for sex with an underage prostitute in
Singapore, sought the services of at least 10 other women whose
ages show he wasn’t seeking younger escorts, his lawyer said.  The other women, hired out by the pimp who controlled the
underaged prostitute identified through her moniker
“Chantelle,” were between 20 and 43 years old, Buergin’s
lawyer Selva Naidu said in a Singapore subordinate court today.  Buergin, who used the name Robert James to communicate with
the pimp, is the first of 51 men charged by police for having
paid sex with the girl to stand trial. At least 18 men,
including a member of the Shaw family that built an Asian movie
production and real estate empire, have been convicted and
jailed for as long as 16 weeks after admitting to paying for sex
with a minor.  “Apart from Chantelle,  Robert James  had engaged the
services of other escorts,” Naidu said in court when he cross-
examined the pimp, adding that her online advertisement stated
she was 18 and new to the escort trade.  Buergin met the women from Sept. 29, 2010 to Nov. 7, 2011
in the city’s luxury hotels including  St. Regis , Conrad and
 Mandarin Oriental  arranged by pimp Tang Boon Thiew, Naidu said.
The 41-year-old Swiss national, who has pleaded not guilty to
two counts of underaged commercial sex, was a victim of a
conspiracy between Chantelle and Tang, who misled him into
believing she was 18, Naidu said.  Legal Age  Tang, 39, said on the stand today that he did tell Buergin
that Chantelle was 18, adding that he wasn’t aware of
 Singapore ’s laws against commercial sex with a minor. Tang is
serving his jail term of 58 months after being convicted of
vice-related charges. He’s appealing his sentence. Chantelle is
now 20.  “I wasn’t aware that Chantelle was under 18 on the first
occasion,” Tang said in court. “I did tell Robert James that
she was 18. She was two months shy of 18” in January 2011.  Buergin was married with two children at the time of the
offences, according to the prosecutors. He declined further
comment when approached by reporters today. If found guilty,
Buergin could face a jail term of as long as seven years and be
fined for each charge.  The criminal case is Public Prosecutor v Buergin Juerg.
DAC13762/2013. Singapore Subordinate Courts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  