-- General Moly Suspends Work on $665 Million Loan
-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i   a n d   S o n j a   E l m q u i s t
-- 2013-03-21T14:29:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/general-moly-suspends-work-on-665-million-loan.html
(Corrects description of company in first paragraph.)  General Moly Inc. (GMO) , owner of two
molybdenum mining projects in  Nevada , suspended work on a $665
million loan after a report that the chairman of the Chinese
company arranging the credit has been detained in  China .  The company is seeking clarification from Sichuan Hanlong
Group about the reported detention of Liu Han, Lakewood,
Colorado-based General Moly said in a statement. The stock fell
14 percent to $2.37 yesterday in after-hours trading in New
York.  General Moly joins Australia’s Sundance Resources Ltd.,
subject of a A$1.14 billion ($1.18 billion) takeover by Hanlong,
in seeking information on Liu’s status. Liu and his ex-wife were
detained after attending the National People’s Congress in
Beijing this month, according to a report by Shanghai Securities
News, which cited unidentified people familiar with the matter.  “It has obviously put the takeover deal under pressure,”
Evan Lucas, a market strategist at IG Markets Ltd., said by
phone from  Melbourne .  Sundance Chairman  George Jones  said he will be having a
meeting today with Hanlong’s “senior people” in Perth. The
meeting won’t include Liu, who is “uncontactable,” Jones said
by phone from the Western Australia capital.  Sichuan Jinlu Group Co., a chemical company, isn’t able to
get in touch by telephone with Liu, also its chairman, according
to a statement late yesterday from the company to the Shenzhen
Stock Exchange. Chengdu-based Hanlong, an investor in highway
and power projects, is Jinlu’s third-biggest shareholder. Wu
Shijun, a media official with Hanlong, declined to comment
today. Jinlu’s shares dropped 3.9 percent to 7.92  yuan  at 1:33
p.m. local time.  Nevada Mine  Liu’s detention is related to Macau casinos, without
further elaborating, China Securities Journal reported, citing
unidentified people. Hanlong’s Wu couldn’t be immediately
reached for comment on this report.  Hanlong, or an affiliate, is obligated to arrange and
guarantee the term loan General Moly sought from  China
Development Bank  to develop its Mt. Hope molybdenum deposit in
Nevada, General Moly said yesterday in the statement.  “We hope to re-establish term loan negotiations with
Hanlong and CDB in the near-term, but will concurrently assess
other financing alternatives,” General Moly Chief Executive
Officer Bruce Hansen said in the statement.  Hanlong hasn’t completed talks with potential Chinese
partners to complete the Sundance acquisition, as required by
China’s National Development and Reform Commission, Sundance
said yesterday in a statement. As such, it’s unlikely that
Hanlong will meet a March 26 deadline to produce a credit-
approved term sheet, according to the statement.  Share Discount  Perth-based Sundance, whose stock is suspended, said it
expected to resolve the matters by April 5, said was seeking
information from Hanlong on the reported detention of Liu.  Sundance’s shares, which last traded 53 percent below
Hanlong’s 45-cent offer price on March 19 in Sydney, reflected
that it’s increasingly unlikely the deal will go through, IG
Markets’ Lucas said. “The funding deal from Hanlong looks very,
very uncertain.”  General Moly said in November 2010 that Hanlong had
informed the company it had signed an initial agreement with the
Export-Import Bank of China for as much as $1.5 billion in
loans. This followed an announcement that March that Hanlong
would source and guarantee the loan as well as buy a 25 percent
stake in General Moly for $80 million once the loan is secured.  “Until we get an explanation, I’m a bit concerned,”
Sundance’s Jones said yesterday in an interview. The Securities
News report didn’t cite a reason for Liu’s detention. Hanlong
owns about 14 percent of Sundance.  Jail Sentence  A former Hanlong unit executive in  Australia , Calvin Zhu,
was sentenced to 27 months in jail after pleading guilty to
three counts of  insider trading , an Australian regulator said
last month. The Australian Securities & Investments Commission
also said on its website on Feb. 15 that it’s investigating
other people associated with Hanlong Mining Investment Pty and
won’t make any further comments on that probe.  The regulator investigated Zhu, former vice president at
Hanlong Mining, and other individuals, on allegations they took
A$1 million from Hanlong Mining, created a company where the
money was deposited, and traded shares and contracts of
Bannerman Resources Ltd. and Sundance before Sichuan Hanlong
offered to buy them.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonja Elmquist in  New York  at 
 selmquist1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  