-- German 10-Year Bunds Decline as Cyprus Considers Bailout Options
-- B y   D a v i d   G o o d m a n   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2013-03-20T15:30:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/german-yields-near-11-week-low-after-cyprus-rejects-deposit-levy.html
German 10-year bunds fell for the
first time in five days as Cyprus studied options to renegotiate
an international bailout, damping demand for  Europe ’s safest
fixed-income assets.  Benchmark yields climbed from near an 11-week low even as
 Germany  sold the securities at the lowest rate since July. The
 European Central Bank  reaffirmed its commitment to offer funding
to Cyprus yesterday, after the country’s lawmakers rejected a
levy on  bank deposits . The nation hasn’t reached any deal for
the sale of Cyprus Popular Bank Plc, government spokesman
Christos Stylianides said today. Spanish and Italian bonds
advanced.  “We had a big move in bunds yesterday but things are
stabilizing,” said  Luca Cazzulani , a senior fixed-income
strategist at  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  in Milan. “Investors are waiting
for some more news to get a better insight into what is going to
happen. There are some factors which may be supportive of risk,
including the ECB saying it would provide liquidity.”  German 10-year bund yields increased three basis points, or
0.03 percentage point, to 1.38 percent at 3:28 p.m. London time.
The rate dropped to 1.34 percent yesterday, the lowest since
Jan. 2. The 1.5 percent security due February 2023 fell 0.265,
or 2.65 euros per 1,000-euro ($1,294) face amount, to 101.15.  The two-year note yield rose one basis point to 0.014
percent, after dropping to minus 0.006 percent yesterday, also
the least since Jan. 2.  ECB Commitment  “The ECB reaffirms its commitment to provide liquidity as
needed within the existing rules” for Cyprus, the Frankfurt-
based central bank said in a statement yesterday.  Luxembourg Finance Minister Luc Frieden called for a
meeting of the 17 euro-area finance ministers to discuss the
situation. Cyprus accounts for less than half of one percent of
the currency bloc’s economy.  Bunds stayed lower even after German  Chancellor Angela
Merkel  said that Cyprus’s banking sector must contribute to the
bailout and ECB Executive Board member Joerg Asmussen said in an
interview with German weekly newspaper Die Zeit that the central
bank can “only provide emergency liquidity to solvent banks.”  A preliminary deal to sell the Cyprus Popular Bank to
Russian investors was reached, the Kathimerini newspaper
reported earlier, without citing anyone.  The ECB may delay a decision on whether to continue to
supply Cypriot banks with emergency funds as it awaits clarity
on the nation’s bailout, according to two people familiar with
the deliberations.  Delayed Deal  The delay gives the Cypriot government and euro-area
finance ministers five more days to formulate a deal to prevent
the implosion of the island’s banks. The ECB has no interest in
forcing a collapse before a political decision has been taken,
the people said.  Cyprus is not a major problem for the global economy,
Laurence D. Fink, chief executive officer of  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the
world’s largest asset manager, said today.  “It’s not a really major economic issue,” Fink said in a
Bloomberg Television interview in  Hong Kong . “It’s a $10
billion issue. It does remind us of the frailty of Europe. It
does remind us that the European fix will be multiple years.”  Spain ’s 10-year bond yield fell seven basis points to 4.97
percent and  Italy ’s dropped 10 basis points to 4.63 percent.  The yield on the Spanish securities climbed to a euro-era
 record  of 7.75 percent on July 25 amid concern the currency bloc
would fragment. Borrowing costs tumbled after ECB President
 Mario Draghi  pledged that month to keep the euro-area intact.  Cyprus Bonds  Cyprus’s government bonds rose for the first time this
week, pushing the yield on the 4.625 percent security due
February 2020 down 47 basis points to 11.95 percent. The bid
price was 66.265, while the offer price was 67.985. The rate
surged 374 basis points over the past two days.  Volatility on Belgian bonds was the highest in euro-area
markets today, followed by those of Italy and  Portugal ,
according to measures of 10-year debt, the yield spread between
two- and 10-year securities, and credit-default swaps.  Germany allotted 3.36 billion euros of 10-year bunds at an
average yield of 1.36 percent, the Frankfurt-based Bundesbank
said in a statement. That compares with a yield of 1.66 percent
at the previous auction on Feb. 20 and a record-low 1.31 percent
set in July.  Portugal’s borrowing costs also fell as it sold 1.2 billion
euros of 18-month bills at an average yield of 1.506 percent,
compared with 1.963 percent at a previous auction on Jan. 16.
The debt agency also allotted 300 million euros of three-month
securities at 0.757 percent.  German bunds handed investors a return of 0.2 percent this
year through yesterday, according to indexes compiled by
Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial Analysts
Societies. Italian bonds lost 0.1 percent, while Spanish
securities gained 3.1 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net ;
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  