-- Ghana State Pension Fund Taps Growing Middle Class With M
-- B y   M o s e s   M o z a r t   D z a w u
-- 2013-03-20T09:43:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/ghana-s-state-pension-fund-taps-growing-middle-class-with-malls.html
Ghana ’s state pension fund, which
has 3.6 billion cedis ($1.9 billion) in assets, is boosting
investments in shopping malls in the West African nation, where
oil-led growth is outpacing the regional average.  Social Security  and National Insurance Trust, which holds
stakes in residential real estate and office buildings, sees
retail as the country’s next growth area as a middle class
emerges, Jerome Eshun, general manager for investment and
development, said in an interview in Accra, the capital, on
March 18.  “As the economy expands, the middle class population is
expected to increase,” he said. “Demand for one-stop shopping
centers to buy dresses, food, among other households items is
going to rise.”  Ghana’s $35 billion economy, the second-biggest in West
 Africa , is forecast to grow 8 percent this year from a
provisional 7.1 percent in 2012, according to the  Finance
Ministry . That’s faster than the International Monetary Fund’s
projection of about 5.8 percent for sub-Saharan Africa and a
sixth straight year of Ghana’s growth rate beating the region.  The world’s second-biggest cocoa producer, which started
oil exports in December 2010, became a lower middle-income
country after changing the way it measures gross domestic
production in 2009. The population grew 28 percent over 10 years
to 24.2 million in 2010, according to the statistics agency’s
census that year. The number of people living in the Greater
Accra region jumped 38 percent.  Population Demand  The pension fund will own 40 percent of West Hills Mall,
the biggest shopping center to be developed in the city,
according to Pretoria-based  Atterbury Property Developments ,
which will own the remainder. It is the fund’s second investment
in a retail site, according to Eshun. It owns 90 percent of the
Makola Shopping Mall, in the city’s central market, he said.  Construction of the $96 million West Hills Mall has started
and the site will open in October 2014, according to a March 13
statement from Atterbury, which last year along with Sanlam Ltd.
bought an 85 percent stake in the Accra Mall, northeast of the
city center.  West Hills will be located about 30 kilometers (19 miles)
from the Accra Mall, and will house some of the same tenants,
including South African retailers  Shoprite Holdings Ltd. (SHP)  and  Mr
Price Group Ltd. (MPC)   The development will “make it easier for people in the
other side of Accra to go and shop,” Eshun said. “Accra Mall
alone cannot meet the demand from the population.”  Non-food inflation, which measures consumers goods
including clothing, furniture and shoes, accelerated to an
annual 12.6 percent in February from 11.5 percent a month
earlier, the country’s statistics agency said on March 13. The
overall  rate  rose to the highest in more than 2 1/2 years to 10
percent in February from 8.8 percent a month earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moses Mozart Dzawu in Accra at 
 mdzawu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emily Bowers at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net  