-- Labor Lawmakers Urge Unity Amid Gillard Leadership Speculation
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t   a n d   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-03-21T01:07:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/gillard-seeks-to-shore-up-position-as-disunity-undermines-labor.html
Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  is seeking to shore up support for her leadership as
senior Labor lawmakers called on the party to unite six months
before an election.  “People have to pull back, they have to unify,”  Simon
Crean , minister for regional  Australia  who led the party for two
years in the early 2000s, told reporters today in Canberra. “It
is killing us, in my view, the disunity.”  Gillard has faced days of intense media speculation that
backers of former leader  Kevin Rudd  are trying to muster support
for a party coup before Parliament rises for a seven-week break
today. Communications Minister Stephen Conroy told reporters the
prime minister has the backing of the party and a leadership
ballot won’t be called today.  The government has trailed in opinion polls for almost two
years, with surveys this month showing Gillard lags behind
opposition leader  Tony Abbott  on the question of preferred prime
minister and Rudd as preferred Labor leader. Gillard is seeking
a compromise on proposed media industry laws as she battles to
avoid the first defeat of legislation introduced by Labor since
she formed a minority government in September 2010.  “While anything can happen, Rudd doesn’t seem to have the
numbers yet and may think that in a couple of months’ time Labor
members will be forced to hand him the leadership on a plate,”
said Stephen Stockwell, a political analyst at Brisbane’s
Griffith University. “Gillard is hoping by playing to her
negotiating strengths she’ll be able to get her media laws
through and finish the week not only still in power, but with a
minor victory.”  Rudd Pledge  When Rudd challenged to reclaim the leadership in February
2012, Gillard won that ballot by 71 votes to 31 in the 102-
member Labor caucus. After losing the contest, Rudd pledged to
“dedicate myself to working fully” for Gillard’s re-election
and has repeatedly said he wouldn’t challenge again.  “Regarding the Labor leadership, Mr. Rudd has made his
position clear in numerous media statements,” his office said
in an e-mailed statement today. “He stands by those
statements.”  Crean told reporters that if Rudd, who was ousted by
Gillard in a June 2010 coup, had the backing of a majority of
the Labor caucus, he would already have moved to reclaim the
leadership this week. When asked whether he himself was a good
third option to unify the party, Crean responded: “I haven’t
got the numbers and I’m honest enough to admit that.”  Party Unity  Crean denied that Rudd backers had approached him to run as
deputy in a leadership challenge. He called on Gillard to show
leadership and unite the party.  “The way in which the  Labor party  has always operated most
effectively is when it has been inclusive, when it has sought
consensus, not when it has sought division, not when it has gone
after class warfare,” Crean said. “They can do it under
whatever leader is prepared to stand up and say that. I believe
she can, but she must.”  Gillard still commands the support of the party, with Rudd
at least 6 votes short of the 52 caucus votes he needs to win
leadership should he challenge, according to the Australian
Financial Review, which didn’t cite sources.  Policy Backflips  Support for Labor has waned after a series of policy back
flips -- including on a tax on  carbon emissions  -- and scandals
involving senior party members. A weakening manufacturing sector
in some key Labor seats on the fringes of major cities has also
seen her support dissipate.  Labor was at 48 percent on a two-party preferred basis,
with Abbott’s coalition on 52 percent, according to a Newspoll
survey published in the Australian newspaper on March 12. The
poll also showed Labor would win the election if Rudd replaced
Gillard as Labor leader.  The opposition says failure to pass a package of bills on
the media industry today would further weaken Gillard’s
position.  “If the bills fail, it’s a matter of confidence in the
government,” Chris Pyne, the manager of opposition business,
told reporters in Canberra today.  While bills on broadcasting license fees and local-content
rules passed parliament earlier this week, the government is
still trying to secure the support of independent lawmakers for
four others.  Bob Katter , one of the independent lawmakers who is
promoting amendments to a proposal to create a panel to monitor
the media, said today the laws had a 50 percent chance of
passing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  