-- Gillard Rivals Face Window to Challenge Before Australia Budget
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2013-03-20T01:59:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/gillard-rivals-face-window-to-challenge-before-australia-budget.html
Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s
rivals face a narrowing window to challenge her leadership
before Parliament rises for a seven-week break, as the  Labor
party  struggles to boost support ahead of a September election.  Parliament is tomorrow scheduled to conclude its final
session before the May 14 budget, making it tougher for any
challengers to corral support for a party coup as lawmakers
leave the capital. Media speculation has intensified this week
that support is growing among Labor ranks to restore the
leadership to  Kevin Rudd , who was ousted by Gillard in 2010.  Gillard’s minority government has trailed in opinion polls
for almost two years, with surveys this month showing she lags
behind opposition leader  Tony Abbott  on the question of
preferred prime minister. Labor MPs face the dilemma of putting
in a new boss to woo back voters -- at the risk of deepening
disaffection with a party that’s been through two leadership
challenges in three years -- or sticking with the nation’s first
female prime minister.  “Whatever happens, this constant speculation is not a good
look for the Labor party,” said  John Warhurst , a political
analyst at the  Australian National University  in Canberra. “If
she’s certain she’s got good numbers, she might call a spill to
head off any other challenges before the  election. She will
probably just sit pretty and dare the Rudd followers to bring it
on.”  Rudd’s backers have raised the idea of a leadership move
with Labor colleagues and could act this week, the Nine
television network reported yesterday, without giving names.  Party Vote  The Australian Financial Review cited unnamed Gillard
supporters saying that Rudd was a few votes short of a majority
of lawmakers needed to oust her in a party-room vote. Some
senior Labor figures are pushing Minister for Regional  Australia 
and the Arts  Simon Crean , who led the party for two years in the
early 2000s, to offer himself as a candidate, the Sydney Morning
Herald reported yesterday.  “Any immediate challenge has to happen before they fly out
of Canberra” at the close of parliament’s session, said
Warhurst.  Support for Gillard has waned after a series of policy back
flips -- including on a tax on  carbon emissions  -- and scandals
involving senior party members. A weakening manufacturing sector
in some key Labor seats on the fringes of major cities has also
seen her support dissipate.  Alongside perceived policy missteps, Gillard has come under
scrutiny as a female leader. In a September 2011 interview with
 Bloomberg News , she described the Australian culture as
“blokey” and last year in parliament accused Abbott of
“repulsive double standards when it comes to misogyny and
sexism.”  ‘Feisty Woman’  During parliamentary question time yesterday, Abbott asked
whether Gillard would view it as a reflection of a lack of
confidence in her government if lawmakers fail to pass
legislation on the  media industry  this week. Gillard responded
by saying Labor will win the election.  “It will be a contest, counter intuitive to those
believing in gender stereotypes, but a contest between a strong
feisty woman and a policy weak man, and I’ll win it,” Gillard
said.  Labor rose 3 percentage points to 48 percent on a two-party
preferred basis, with Abbott’s Liberal-National coalition
falling 3 points to 52 percent, according to a Newspoll survey
published in the Australian newspaper on March 12. The poll also
showed Labor would win the election if Rudd replaced Gillard as
Labor leader.  More Popular  A separate poll published this week in Fairfax newspapers
showed Rudd is twice as popular with voters as Gillard. Asked
who of the two was the preferred Labor leader, 62 percent of
respondents said Rudd and 31 percent chose Gillard, according to
the Nielsen survey.  Among solely Labor voters, support for Rudd is 51 percent
to Gillard’s 48 percent, that poll showed. That’s narrowed from
the 13 point lead he held over Gillard when he unsuccessfully
challenged her for the leadership in February last year.  Among reasons cited by Gillard and her supporters for
Rudd’s ouster in June 2010 were his erratic decision-making,
lack of communication and his desire to concentrate power away
from his own ministers. Rudd said early last year that he’d
learned the lessons from his time as prime minister and would
try to delegate and consult more widely.  Gillard told Fairfax newspapers in an interview published
this week that she wouldn’t yield to leadership speculation:
“If I haven’t flinched yet, why would I flinch now?” she was
cited as saying.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  