-- Giving Agencies Leeway to Cut Seen Averting Shutdown: Q&A
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 2013-03-20T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/giving-agencies-leeway-to-cut-seen-averting-shutdown-q-a.html
The Congress is poised this week to
clear a funding measure that will keep the U.S. government
running through the rest of the fiscal year. The bill does
nothing to cancel $85 billion in across-the-board cuts which
took effect March 1.  Instead, lawmakers have crafted a hybrid stopgap measure,
also known as a continuing resolution, that seeks to cushion
some of the effects of the automatic spending cuts by giving
agencies limited flexibility to deal with them.  Here are questions and answers about the continuing
resolution and the kind of flexibility some agencies would have:  How much money would the government have for the rest of the
year?  Congress would approve more than $1 trillion for non-
emergency discretionary spending, an amount agreed upon under a
January budget deal. All told, the government faces $85 billion
in automatic budget cuts, known as sequestration. The
 Congressional Budget Office  estimates that appropriations
through the rest of the fiscal year ending Sept. 30 will drop to
an annual rate of $984 billion as a result of the cuts.  Why is Congress taking up this measure now and not altering the
cuts for the rest of the year?  Lawmakers must approve new funding because the current
stopgap measure expires March 27. Absent a broad deficit-
reduction agreement with the White House that no one expects
quickly, lawmakers in both parties have agreed not to undo
sequestration. Instead, lawmakers decided to cushion some of the
effect of the cuts.  What makes the new stopgap measure different?  House Appropriations Chairman Hal Rogers, a Kentucky
Republican, decided to include spending bills for the Defense
and Veterans Affairs Departments. Those two agencies will
receive the money to fund their operations and priorities for
fiscal 2013.  The House left all the other agencies operating from their
previous budgets. The Senate  expanded  the list of 2013
appropriations bills and added three more to the House-passed
bill: Agriculture-Food and Drug Administration,  Homeland
Security , and Commerce-Justice-Science. That means that Cabinet-
level departments receiving new budgets will include Justice,
Commerce, Agriculture and Homeland Security.  How would the stopgap measure give agencies more flexibility to
deal with the spending cuts?  The legislation would make it easier for some agencies to
cope with the cuts merely by updating their budgets. For
example, the bill would increase the Pentagon’s “operation and
maintenance” accounts by about $10 billion, which would make it
easier to absorb the cuts. The stopgap measure would help
agencies set their priorities because the money has been
repositioned.  What else provides a buffer for the agencies?  Various programs would receive dispensation for the cuts
under the new funding plan. The Senate package includes more
than 100 adjustments, called “anomalies,” such as one
providing the State Department with an additional $50 million to
“respond to the deteriorating situation in  Syria , including
providing non-lethal aid to the Syrian opposition,” according
to a summary provided by the Senate Appropriations Committee.  What happens to the other government agencies?  Other arms of the government would be put on autopilot
through Sept. 30, though appropriators included an eight-page
list of “anomalies” to adjust funding levels and agency
responsibilities to make it easier to operate under the
continuing resolution. In the Senate, Democrats dropped plans by
Appropriations Committee Chairwoman Barbara Mikulski to give
agencies more authority to move money around within their
budgets. Republicans had complained that doing so would give
President  Barack Obama ’s administration too much power over the
budget.  What is reprogramming and how does it work?  Agencies can ask Congress to reprogram funding to boost
spending in specific areas of their budgets. That authority
varies by agency. Still, an agency boosting one account by
taking money from another subjects that account to the cuts.  Why does Congress need to pass a continuing resolution?  Because both chambers of Congress didn’t pass any of the
regular 2013 spending bills, the government was funded through
the stopgap measure that continues the status quo of the
previous year. That means agencies can’t start new programs and
receive funding in accounts that may no longer have priority.  What is the status of the bill?  Once the Senate passes the measure, the Republican-led
House will take it up. The House is expected to clear the
measure for Obama’s signature before it starts a recess on March
22.  How do the 2014 budget proposals each chamber is debating this
week figure into this year’s funding level?  They aren’t related to this year’s funding. The resolutions
are each party’s budget priorities for the 2014 fiscal year,
which starts Oct. 1. While these budget resolutions are non-
binding, the blueprints show the divide between Democrats and
Republicans on  deficit  reduction and serve as the two parties’
messaging tools. Obama will present his 2014 budget request to
Congress on April 8, after the two chambers already moved on
theirs.  What are some of the differences in the House and Senate budget
plans?  House Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan , a Wisconsin
Republican, unveiled his plan that he said would eliminate the
deficit within a decade by cutting $4.6 trillion across a swath
of federal expenditures. His Democratic counterpart in the
Senate,  Patty Murray  of  Washington , in her plan included $1.85
trillion in net  deficit reduction  by 2023, including $975
billion from revenue increases and $975 billion from spending
reductions. The changes would reduce the deficit by $1.85
trillion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  