-- Glaxo Malaria Shot Effect Waned Over Time in Kenya Study
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a   a n d   A n d r e a   G e r l i n
-- 2013-03-20T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/glaxo-malaria-shot-effect-waned-over-time-in-kenya-study.html
GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ’s experimental
malaria vaccine becomes less effective over time, researchers in
 Kenya  found, indicating that booster shots may be needed.  The efficacy of the shot, known as RTS,S, drops to zero by
the fourth year after vaccination from 44 percent in the first
year, according to a study published today in the  New England
Journal of Medicine . Even so, the researchers found that the
medicine helped prevent 65 cases of malaria for every 100
children vaccinated.  The results suggest the need for a booster dose to sustain
the vaccine’s protective effect, which Glaxo is exploring in a
larger late-stage study. RTS,S is the most advanced vaccine in
development among those targeting malaria, which kills 660,000
people a year worldwide, mostly children in sub-Saharan  Africa ,
according to the  World Health Organization .  “Generally, in other malaria studies there has been a
trend to wane over time, so this is not surprising,” Johanna
Daily, who studies malaria at  Albert Einstein College of
Medicine  in  New York  and wasn’t involved in the research, said
in a telephone interview. “The field has to reflect on this,
whether there are other vaccines that will be more potent, that
will have more prolonged efficacy.”  The researchers looked at 320 children in Kilifi, Kenya, in
a followup to a previous study. The children, who were ages five
months to 17 months at the time of vaccination, received three
doses of the vaccine.  Different Settings  The study analyzes data from one trial site and doesn’t
provide definitive answers about the vaccine’s duration of
protection or how it works in different settings, Catherine
Hartley, a Glaxo spokeswoman in  London , said in an e-mailed
statement.  The larger, late-stage study involves 15,460 children “and
should provide more meaningful insights into the vaccine
candidate’s efficacy in different malaria parasite transmission
settings, longer-term efficacy and the impact of a booster
dose,” Hartley said. That analysis should be available by the
end of 2014, she said.  The vaccine’s efficacy fell in the Kenyan study with
increasing exposure to malaria, from 45 percent among children
with below-average contact to the disease to 16 percent among
those with above-average exposure.  “These are important findings that will help to inform
which populations are likely to benefit most from the vaccine,”
Ally Olotu, the study’s lead author and a doctoral student at
the  KEMRI-Wellcome Trust Research Program , said in a statement.  Fever, Chills  In November, results from the late-stage study were
published, showing that the vaccine was less effective in
reducing illness in infants than in older children.  There were 216 million cases of malaria globally in 2010,
according to the WHO. The mosquito-borne parasite of the human
liver and blood causes fever, chills and flu-like symptoms, or
shock, anemia and organ damage if untreated. Malaria is
prevented now with insecticide-treated bed nets. Drugs are
prescribed after infection.  Glaxo has said it plans to file for regulatory approval in
2014 and bring the vaccine to market as early as 2015. The
 drugmaker  hasn’t disclosed what it plans to charge for  RTS ,S,
only that the eventual price will be the cost of making it plus
5 percent, which the company would reinvest in finding a second-
generation malaria vaccine or preventive treatments for other
neglected tropical diseases.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Gerlin in London at 
 agerlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  