-- Goldman Sachs Said to Hire UBS’s Jordan to Be Russia Co-Head
-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 2013-03-20T16:26:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/goldman-sachs-said-to-hire-ubs-s-jordan-to-be-moscow-co-head.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  hired Nick Jordan from  UBS AG (UBSN)  as co-head of its operations in Moscow in the
fourth overhaul of its leadership in the country in as many
years, according to two people with knowledge of the move.  Jordan, a 53-year-old, Russian-speaking American, will work
alongside Paolo Zannoni, who was named country chief last year,
said the people, who asked not to be identified as the move
hasn’t been made public. Jordan, the former chief of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.’s Russian unit, was named head of UBS’s
local operations in 2010.  “UBS was too small for Nick taking into account its
limited commitment to Russia,” Ilya Scherbovich, founder of
investment firm United Capital Partners, who worked with him at
Deutsche UFG, said in an e-mail today. “Nick is the most
experienced banker on the Russian market by far and he was
involved in dozens of very important transactions in  Russia .”  Goldman Sachs is adding staff after the government hired it
last month to advise it on attracting more institutional
investors. The Wall Street firm is also one of 23 foreign and
domestic banks selected to advise Russia on its 1 trillion-ruble
($33 billion) privatization program.  Job Cuts  Monika Schaller, a Goldman Sachs spokeswoman in  Frankfurt ,
and Dominik Von Arx, a UBS spokesman in  London , declined to
comment. UBS,  Switzerland ’s biggest bank based in Zurich, has
been scaling back its investment bank, cutting 10,000 jobs over
three years and exiting most debt-trading businesses to focus on
 money management  and boost its return on equity.  Zannoni, previously chairman of Italian  investment banking ,
took over as chief of Russian operations about a year ago from
co-heads Chris Barter, who left to start an investment fund in
London, and Jean Raby, who returned to Paris.  Goldman Sachs, the fifth-biggest U.S. bank by assets,
hasn’t had a Russian citizen as head or co-head of its Moscow
office since Elena Titova left in 2006.  Last year, the firm helped advise OAO Sberbank, Russia’s
largest lender, on a $5.2 billion equity sale. The bank was the
fifth-biggest organizer of Russian stock offerings last year and
sixth in arranging mergers and acquisitions, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. It was the 10th-biggest arranger of
Russian Eurobonds, data shows.  Brothers  Goldman Sachs struggled in its first decade in Russia.
After opening its first office in Moscow in 1994, it later
scaled back as part of a worldwide retrenchment. It returned in
1998, weeks before Russia defaulted, withdrew almost entirely
after that crisis, and increased its presence again in 2006.  Jordan, who grew up in  New York  speaking Russian at home
because all four of his grandparents were raised in the Soviet
Union, is one of three brothers involved in banking. In the
mid-1990s, his younger brother Boris co-founded  Renaissance
Capital , the investment bank now partly owned by billionaire
 Mikhail Prokhorov . Another brother, Michael, previously worked
for a New York unit of billionaire  Mikhail Fridman ’s Alfa Bank.  Jordan was co-head of global banking at Deutsche UFG, the
company created in December 2005 when Deutsche Bank bought
control of Moscow-based United Financial Group. He left in 2007,
when the German bank was topping the league tables of
investment-banking mandates in Russia, to run Lehman’s Russian
office -- a year before the Wall Street firm collapsed.  He was paid more than $7 million a year to join Lehman from
Deutsche Bank, two people familiar with the matter said at the
time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  