-- Gold Drops From Three-Week High as Investors Weigh Fed, Cyprus
-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y   a n d   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 2013-03-20T14:47:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/gold-trades-near-this-month-s-high-before-fed-policy-statement.html
Gold futures dropped from a three-
week high, as investors awaited the  Federal Reserve ’s latest
policy statement, and amid concern that Europe’s debt crisis may
worsen.  The Fed will end a two-day policy meeting today in
Washington. Gold declined 3.8 percent this year through
yesterday on signs that an improving U.S. economy would reduce
the need for central-bank stimulus. The  European Central Bank 
pledged to provide liquidity to Cyprus after the nation’s
lawmakers rejected an unprecedented levy on  bank deposits 
yesterday. The vote threw into limbo a rescue package designed
to keep Cyprus in the euro.  “The market is in a wait-and-watch mode ahead of the Fed
statement,”  Frank McGhee , the head dealer at Integrated
Brokerage Services LLC in Chicago, said in a telephone
interview. “The Europe concerns are providing some support.”  Gold futures for April delivery slipped 0.3 percent to
$1,606.70 an ounce at 10:45 a.m. on the Comex in  New York .
Bullion reached $1,615 yesterday, the highest since Feb. 26, and
advanced 1.4 percent in the past four sessions.  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will probably start reducing the
Fed’s $85 billion in monthly bond buying no earlier than the
fourth quarter of 2013, economists said in a Bloomberg survey.
Minutes of the previous meeting released on Feb. 20 showed some
policy makers said the central bank should be ready to vary the
pace of its monthly purchases.  Silver futures for May delivery fell 0.4 percent to $28.725
an ounce in New York.  Futures trading was 56 percent below the average in the
past 100 days for this time of day.  To contact the reporters for this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net ;
Debarati Roy in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at   sstroth@bloomberg.net  