-- Green Groups Press EPA for Climate Rule Industry Loathes
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2013-03-20T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/green-groups-press-epa-for-climate-rule-industry-loathes.html
Environmental groups are stepping
up pressure on President  Barack Obama  to issue the first
greenhouse-gas limits for power plants as the utility industry
seeks to weaken the standards before a deadline next month.  The Sierra Club and its allies say a top  priority  for Obama
in meeting his second-term pledge to deal with  climate change  is
for his Environmental Protection Agency to issue restrictions on
carbon dioxide coming from power plants. They warned against
bowing to industry criticism and scaling back or putting off the
rule, which spurred a record 2.67 million public comments, most
in support of it.  “We’re very concerned about the potential for delay,”
 David Doniger , climate director at  Natural Resources Defense
Council , told congressional staff members this week at a Capitol
Hill forum. The EPA has an April 13 court deadline to issue the
standard, and if late, “groups like ours will take steps to
have it enforced.”  Utilities such as  Southern Co. (SO)  and  American Electric Power
Co. (AEP)  and coal producers such as  Peabody Energy Corp. (BTU)  have weighed
in against the EPA proposal, arguing that the agency shouldn’t
issue a standard that can only be met by power plants fueled
with natural gas. That plan wouldn’t affect existing plants, and
coal producers and utilities are bracing for the EPA to tackle
that source next.  Obama Pledge  Obama has vowed to make combating global warming a top
priority in the next four years, after environmentalists dubbed
his first-term record as mixed because he failed to deliver on a
campaign promise to secure cap-and-trade legislation. If
structured correctly, new rules for operating plants could let
the U.S.  meet Obama’s goal  of cutting greenhouse gas emissions
17 percent by 2020 at a cost of $4 billion in that year,
according to Doniger.  The EPA released a  draft  of the rule last year that would
mandate an emissions cap of 1,000 pounds of carbon dioxide per
megawatt hour for new  power plants . That’s in line with state-
of-the-art natural gas plants, and would impose a ban on new
coal-fired plants that lack carbon-capture equipment, a
technology that power producers say isn’t commercially
available.  The final rule to reduce emissions of the gases that
scientists link to global warming is due next month, and the EPA
is still reviewing comments from the public, said Alisha Johnson, a spokeswoman. She didn’t say if EPA would meet that
deadline or not. It hasn’t been submitted to the White House for
a required review, a process that can take 90 days or more.  Industry Complaints  And it’s facing vigorous complaints from industry.  EPA “is unilaterally changing American  energy policy  to
force coal out of the nation’s resource mix and to make the
nation dependent on natural gas as the dominant fuel for
electric generation,” Peabody said in a filing with the EPA in
June. “Congress, however, did not give EPA authority over
energy policy. EPA has, without a basis in law, taken this
authority for itself.”  Southern Chief Executive Officer Tom Fanning said utilities
and the agency are seeking a “constructive solution.”  “We’ll reach a successful conclusion as we have with
virtually every regulation being put out by EPA,” Fanning said
March 18 in  Washington . “I just want to make sure at the end of
the day that if we are really setting energy policy, that energy
policy is set out of Congress.”  Sierra Club  The  Sierra Club , National Wildlife Federation and other
environmental groups  delivered  more than 2 million written
comments supporting the proposal to EPA Assistant Administrator
Gina McCarthy in June, which the organizations say was the most
ever submitted for a  Clean Air Act  regulation. Those groups are
now pressing McCarthy, Obama’s nominee to head the EPA, to keep
that proposal in its same basic form.  “Strong carbon pollution standards for power plants are
inevitable,” John Coequyt, director of climate change at the
Sierra Club, said in an e-mail. “The law and public opinion are
on the side of these safeguards.”  Four Democratic senators led by  West Virginia ’s  Joe Manchin 
 wrote  Obama on March 14 and urged him to toss out the EPA’s plan
for new plants. West Virginia one of the nation’s biggest coal
producing states.  “That’s a sign that Democrats, too, are concerned,”  Luke Popovich , a spokesman for the National Mining Association, said.
“The path forward could be a lot more responsible.”  Court Challenge  Previous EPA rules for pollutants such as sulfur dioxide
set separate standards for coal and gas plants, which emit about
half the carbon dioxide as coal when burned to create
electricity. Setting one overarching rule would be subject to a
court challenge, and might be tossed out, industry lawyers say.  “As a legal matter, it was swinging for the fences, but
it’s a high risk, high reward kind of thing,” William Bumpers,
a lawyer at Baker Botts LLP in Washington, said in an interview.
“If it gets struck down, it sends you back to the drawing
board.”  And if rules for new plants are struck down, that means any
standards for existing plants may be further delayed, said Jeff Holmstead, a former EPA official under President  George W. Bush 
and a lawyer at Bracewell & Giuliani LLP in Washington. “If EPA
rolls the dice on new sources and loses,” it slows everything
else down, he said.  The EPA said this proposal will have no impact on producers
or consumers because no coal plants are likely to be built in
the next two decades unless the facilities have carbon-capture
systems. Still, the battle now is a prelude for the more serious
effort to cut  carbon emissions  from existing plants.  That plan as well may fail a legal challenge, according to
Holmstead, a frequent sparring partner with Doniger. That
creates a conundrum for the EPA, he said.  “The president has created this expectation that he is
going to pull the trigger, and send his people out to tackle
 greenhouse gases ,” Holmstead said in an interview. “But I
don’t think EPA has the ability to do that under the Clean Air
Act.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  