-- Gulf Diesel Falls from One-Month High on Inventory Build
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r v e y
-- 2013-03-20T20:14:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/gulf-diesel-falls-from-one-month-high-on-inventory-build.html
U.S. Gulf Coast diesel weakened
from a one-month high after a government report showed the
area’s stockpiles grew for the first time in six weeks.  Supplies of distillates, including diesel and heating oil,
on the Gulf Coast, the PADD 3 region, rose 1.43 million barrels
to 37.1 million in the week ended March 15, according to the
Energy Information Administration, the statistical arm of the
Energy Department.  Distillate inventories increased as Gulf Coast refineries
including  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO) ’s plant at Port Arthur and
Phillips 66 at Borger, both in  Texas , restarted. There’s also
speculation supplies gained as exports slowed and demand for
U.S. imports from Latin America fell, said Tom Finlon, director
at Energy Analytics Group Ltd.  The premium for  ultra-low-sulfur  diesel on the coast
slipped 2.75 cents to 7 cents above heating oil futures traded
on the New York Mercantile Exchange at 3:57 p.m. The
 differential  was 9.5 cents yesterday, the widest since Feb. 25,
data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  “Inventories built so much in PADD 3 because runs have
recovered substantially and at the same time distillates are
having a hard time going out from the Gulf,” Finlon, who is
based in Jupiter,  Florida , said in a phone interview. “Demand
from Latin America has also really slackened off so less ships
are leaving.”  Refinery Work  Refineries processed  7.39 million  barrels of crude and
other feedstock last week, up 138,000 barrels from a week
earlier, according to EIA data. Valero returned Port Arthur
units to planned rates after an electrical upset, while  Phillips
66 (PSX)  completed maintenance at Borger, the companies said. The two
refineries have a combined capacity of 456,000 barrels a day,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Exports from the Gulf Coast may climb in coming weeks as
ship-chartering is expected to improve on higher  refinery
utilization  rates, according to a weekly report from Charles R.
Weber Co Inc., a Greenwich, Connecticut-based shipbroker. There
have been rising levels of available medium-rate tankers in the
region, the March 15 report showed.  U.S. distillate exports dropped to 850,000 barrels last
week, the lowest level since September 2011, the EIA said today.
 Booking rates  for vessels carrying diesel across the Atlantic
Ocean to  Europe  slid 0.3 percent to 60.54 industry-standard
Worldscale points today, the lowest level since September, data
from the Baltic Exchange in  London  showed.  “Based on this rate, we’ll probably see ship owners to
start sending more,” Finlon said  The  3-2-1 crack spread  on the Gulf, a measure of refining
profitability for gasoline and diesel fuel based on West Texas
Intermediate in Cushing,  Oklahoma , rose 1.1 cents, or 3.8
percent, to $29.02 a barrel, the first gain in five days,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harvey in  New York  at 
 charvey32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  