-- Iceland Krona Interventions Let Central Bank Shelve Rate Rises
-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 2013-03-20T09:31:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/iceland-keeps-key-rate-unchanged-as-creditors-face-write-downs.html
Iceland’s central bank held
 interest rates  for a third meeting after intervening to
strengthen the krona and as authorities push to deepen losses
for creditors of the nation’s failed banks.  The seven-day collateral lending rate was held at 6
percent, Reykjavik-based  Sedlabanki  said today in a statement on
its website.  The bank at the beginning of the year suspended purchases
of foreign currency, designed to build up reserves, and last
month said it would buy kronur. The krona has jumped almost 7
percent against the euro since Jan. 30, when it fell to the
lowest level since February 2010. The weak krona had spurred
inflation, which reached 4.8 percent in February, well above the
bank’s 2.5 percent target.  “The bank’s decision to suspend its program of regular
foreign currency purchases and support the exchange rate of the
krona with foreign exchange intervention has, together with
other measures, proven effective,” it said. The move “reduced
the risk that self-fulfilling expectations of a depreciation
will weaken the krona still further, and in this way they have
supported monetary policy.”  Iceland’s politicians, who face elections on April 27, and
the central bank have also signaled they’ll force write downs on
as much as $3.6 billion in krona claims held by creditors in the
three banks that collapsed in 2008. The step is designed to help
remove pressure from the krona by reducing the amount of money
that could have left Iceland’s shores. Krona losses between
August last year and February prompted the central bank to raise
rates as policy makers struggle to unwind  capital controls 
without weakening the currency.  ‘Gradual Recovery’  “The outlook is still for a gradual economic recovery, and
leading indicators from the labor market are consistent with
that prospect,” the bank said today. “Inflation, however,
proved considerably higher in February than previously
anticipated. On the other hand, the krona has appreciated from
February onwards.”  Parliament this month scrapped a 2013 deadline for the
removal of controls, which are blocking as much as $8 billion in
assets from being offloaded. The island imposed the restrictions
after the currency plunged as much as 80 percent against the
euro offshore and plunging the nation into its worst recession
in six decades.  IMF Program  Iceland, which completed a 33-month International Monetary
Fund program in August 2011, is outgrowing much of  Europe  as it
recovers from the deepest recession in six decades.  Still, the bank last month said the economic recovery has
been slower than estimated, reducing its growth forecast for
this year to 2.1 percent from an estimate of 2.9 percent.  Iceland in January also prevailed in a case brought by the
European Free Trade Area Surveillance Authority that it breached
laws by refusing in 2008 to cover U.K. and Dutch deposits in
failed Landsbanki Islands hf. Winning the case eased pressure on
the country as it escaped damages that could have been as high
as 20 percent of gross domestic product. That prompted Moody’s
Investors Service to raise the outlook on Iceland’s Baa3 grade
to stable, while Fitch boosted its rating to BBB from BBB-.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  