-- Illinois Senate Passes Measure to Reduce Pension Deficit
-- B y   T i m   J o n e s
-- 2013-03-21T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/illinois-senate-passes-measure-to-reduce-pension-deficit.html
The  Illinois  Senate approved a
measure meant to trim the state pension system’s $97 billion in
unfunded liabilities and reduce financial pressure on education
and other programs.  The scaled-back bill that passed 30-22 yesterday applies
only to school teachers and gives them a choice of retirement
options. Earlier in the day, the Senate rejected a more
comprehensive measure that would have covered all state workers.  “We need to start with pension reform,” said Senate
President John Cullerton, a Chicago Democrat who sponsored the
adopted bill, which moves now to the  House of Representatives .  The measure would give teachers the choice of keeping an
annual pension boost or state-paid retiree health insurance.
Cullerton said it would save the state $18 billion to $40
billion over the next 30 years. Republican senators said it
would provide limited financial relief and that more needs to be
done to rein in costs. Democrats control the legislature.  The 130,000-member Illinois Education Association, the
state’s biggest teachers’ union, said on its  website  that it
opposes the bill. A House committee sent a comprehensive pension
measure to the floor in January, similar to the one rejected
yesterday by the Senate. A vote was never called.  Expanding Gap  The state’s pension deficit increases by $17 million a day,
including obligations to current and future retirees, such as
judges, university workers and legislators. Illinois has the
lowest-graded credit of any U.S. state by Moody’s Investors
Service and  Standard & Poor’s  partly because of the unfunded
retirement plans. Moody’s, S&P and Fitch Ratings all have a
negative outlook for the state.  Illinois is paying for years of financial mismanagement and
political gridlock, resulting in the worst-funded state pension
system in U.S., with 39 percent of assets needed to cover
projected obligations for five major groups of employees,
according to the Civic Federation, a Chicago-based nonprofit
research group that tracks government finances.  On March 12, the state settled with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission over charges it misled investors from 2005
to 2009 about shortfalls in retirement funds.  Lawmakers failed to pass a pension restructuring measure in
the past legislative session. Governor  Pat Quinn , a Democrat,
said March 6 that mounting costs for retirees are “draining our
ability to educate our students.”  Ratings Cut  Citing lawmakers’ “poor track record” on addressing
retirement-system funding, S&P reduced its score for Illinois to
A-, six levels below AAA, on Jan. 25. After S&P raised
 California ’s credit score Jan. 31, Illinois was left with the
lowest state grade in the nation. Moody’s gives it an A2, five
steps below the top and also its lowest-rate state.  On March 18, Moody’s lowered its ratings on debt issued by
four Illinois universities, saying a further deterioration of
the quality of the state’s general-obligation bonds and cuts in
higher-education funding could lead to more credit reductions.  Illinois lawmakers are scheduled to be in session until
late May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Jones in  Chicago  at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 