-- Illinois Lawsuit Against S&P on Ratings Halted by Judge
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-03-20T16:04:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/illinois-lawsuit-against-s-p-on-ratings-halted-by-judge.html
A lawsuit brought by the state of
Illinois against the McGraw-Hill Cos. and its  Standard & Poor’s 
unit over allegedly misleading ratings given to residential
mortgage-backed securities was halted by a U.S. judge.  U.S. District Judge Matthew Kennelly in Chicago today
stopped progress on the case filed last year by Illinois
Attorney General Lisa Madigan, pending determination on whether
it will be consolidated with similar cases filed by other states
for pretrial proceedings.  “I’m going to grant the motion to stay,” Kennelly told
attorneys for both sides in court, granting the companies’
request. The judge also directed the parties to submit papers
addressing whether the case should be sent back to the state
court where it was filed. The judge said he would rule on May
15.  Madigan sued S&P 14 months ago, alleging that it ignored
the risks posed by the securities, and chose to curry favor with
its clients, thus contributing to the 2008 U.S. economic
downturn.  Connecticut  sued in 2010;  Mississippi , in 2011. The federal
government sued the companies on Feb. 4, followed by states
including California,  Colorado ,  Missouri  and  Pennsylvania .  The businesses have denied the allegations, calling the
cases a “hindsight-infused attempt by the states to lay blame
with S&P for failing to predict the financial crisis.”  Pending Petition  S&P lawyers moved more than a dozen of the cases to federal
courts and followed with requests for court-ordered stays while
their petition for consolidation is pending before a federal
judicial panel.  “Litigating the state actions separately would involve the
wholly inefficient exercise of virtually identical” motions and
disputes in each of the various courts, defense lawyers argued
in court papers.  Madigan’s office on March 13 asked Kennelly to return the
case to  Illinois ’ Cook County Circuit Court in Chicago, where it
was filed, arguing that only state laws are at issue and that
the defense decision to remove it to federal court this month
was untimely.  The Illinois suit survived one state court test when Judge
Mary Anne Mason last year denied a defense motion to dismiss it.
She rejected the company’s contention that its rating opinions
are protected by the constitutional guarantee of free speech.  McGraw-Hill and Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC
must file their opposition to the state’s remand request by
April 10, Kennelly said. Illinois’s reply is due by April 24.  The case is People of the  State of Illinois  v.  McGraw-Hill
Cos. (MHP) , 13-cv-01725, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
Illinois (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at
   aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  