-- IMF Chief Lagarde’s Home Searched by French Police
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o   a n d   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2013-03-20T23:23:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/imf-chief-christine-lagarde-s-home-searched-by-french-police.html
French police searched the Paris
home of International Monetary Fund Managing Director Christine Lagarde as part of an inquiry into an arbitration that awarded
$500 million to a supporter of former President Nicolas Sarkozy.  The Cour de Justice de la Republique, which investigates
ministers’ actions in office, is looking into whether Lagarde, a
onetime finance minister under Sarkozy, erred in agreeing to an
arbitration to end a dispute involving business tycoon Bernard Tapie. The raid, which took place yesterday, was confirmed by
the Paris prosecutor’s office and Lagarde’s lawyer.  Lagarde “considers that this will enable to establish the
truth and will ultimately lead to the termination of all
investigations,” Yves Repiquet, her lawyer, said in a
statement.  Tapie, who has also dabbled in politics and acting, in 2008
won a 385 million euro ($498 million) arbitration award to
settle a dispute over his company’s sale of German sportswear
brand  Adidas AG. (ADS)  He contended that Credit Lyonnais mishandled
the 1993 sale and pursued a claim against the formerly state-
owned bank’s liquidator.  Tapie, a minister for less than a year under former
Socialist President Francois Mitterrand in the 1990s, endorsed
Sarkozy’s successful presidential effort in 2007 and failed re-
election bid in 2012.  Creditors’ Claims  The arbitration court awarded Tapie 45 million euros in
damages on top of 240 million euros for his creditors and about
100 million euros in interest. Lagarde refused to appeal the
decision, saying “a very large majority” of the money would
return to the state through the creditors’ claims.  The court opened its investigation into whether there was
“complicity in forgery” or “complicity in misuse of public
funds” in the case in 2011, soon after Lagarde became IMF head.  “It would not be appropriate to comment on a case that has
been and is currently before the French judiciary,” Gerry Rice,
a spokesman for the Washington-based IMF, said in a statement.
“Prior to its selection of the managing director, however, the
IMF’s executive board discussed this issue and expressed its
confidence that Madame Lagarde would be able to effectively
carry out her duties.”  Lagarde returned to  Washington  yesterday from a trip to
North Africa and  Europe , where she attended discussions with
finance ministers to bail out Cyprus.  On March 19, she endorsed a rescue deal for Cyprus outlined
by euro-area finance chiefs, to which the IMF may also
contribute. She said Cyprus will need to shrink its banking
sector as part of any rescue package.  Earlier Raids  The search wasn’t the first as part of the investigation.
Police raided the home and office of Claude Gueant, Sarkozy’s
former staff chief,  France  Info radio reported last month. Also
searched were the homes of Tapie,  France Telecom SA (FTE)  Chief
Executive Officer Stephane Richard, Lagarde’s staff chief when
she was finance minister, and those of the arbitration panel
judges as well as Tapie’s lawyer’s office.  When Lagarde took over the IMF, the institution was reeling
from the arrest of former chief  Dominique Strauss-Kahn  on
charges including attempted rape of a hotel maid in New York.
The charges were later dropped and he settled the maid’s lawsuit
last year.  The longest-serving finance minister of France since the
1970s, Lagarde has stood by her decision in the Tapie case,
saying in an interview broadcast by France 2 television on Jan.
25 that “it was the best solution at the time and I think it
was the right choice.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 mdeen@bloomberg.net 
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net 
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 