-- Immigration Plan Slipping Because No Proposal, Leahy Says
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2013-03-20T23:31:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/immigration-plan-slipping-because-no-proposal-leahy-says.html
Senate consideration of legislation
to revise U.S. immigration laws will be delayed because a
bipartisan Senate group hasn’t produced a bill, Judiciary
Committee Chairman Patrick Leahy said.  The committee won’t act on an immigration overhaul plan
before May at the earliest, Leahy said today at a hearing in
Washington.  “Because we do not yet have legislative language to
debate, the Senate Judiciary Committee will not be able to
report a comprehensive immigration bill by the end of April,
which was my goal,” the Vermont Democrat said.  Leahy said he urged President  Barack Obama  “for months”
to send an immigration proposal to the Senate. He said the White
House opted not to, deferring to a bipartisan group of eight
senators that has been meeting privately since late last year to
craft a plan.  Those senators “are engaged in secret, closed-door
discussions on their own proposal” and had originally
“committed to completing it by the beginning of March,” Leahy
said. “That deadline and others have come and gone.”  One of four Democratic senators in the group, Charles Schumer of New York, is chairman of the Judiciary subcommittee
that has jurisdiction over immigration issues.  Congress plans to begin a two-week break at the end of this
week.  Congressional Recess  “The upcoming recess period would have allowed all members
of the committee and the American people to review the
legislation,” Leahy said. “Now that process and our work will
be delayed at least a month.”  The Senate group unveiled its principles in late January,
including a path to citizenship for the estimated 11 million
undocumented immigrants in the U.S. Obama called on Congress to
address the issue while saying he would hold off on his proposal
to give the Senate group time to do its work.  “The group remains on pace to complete a deal by the end
of the month,” Schumer spokesman Brian Fallon said in an e-
mail. “In fact, we are very, very close to a final agreement.
We hope the committee will take up the bill in April.”  White House officials told religious leaders who met with
Obama March 8 that they anticipated the senators drafting
immigration legislation would miss their March target date and
instead unveil the bill in April.  “I have favored an open and transparent process during
which all 18 senators serving on the Senate Judiciary Committee
will have the opportunity to participate and to propose or
oppose ideas for reform,” Leahy said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in  Washington  at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  