-- Indian Stocks Extend Decline as Coalition Rift Threatens Reforms
-- B y   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y
-- 2013-03-20T11:36:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/india-s-nifty-futures-drop-as-coalition-rift-threatens-reforms.html
India’s benchmark stock index had
the longest losing run in more than five weeks amid concern the
withdrawal of the government’s biggest partner from the ruling
alliance may jeopardize economic reforms.  The S&P BSE  Sensex (SENSEX)  dropped for the fourth day, losing 0.7
percent to 18,884.19 at close in Mumbai, the longest stretch of
losses since Feb. 11. Volumes were 24 percent higher than the
30-day average.  ICICI Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC) , India’s third-largest lender by
value, fell to a six-month low. Oil & Natural Gas Corp., the
nation’s biggest explorer, retreated to a two-month low.  The former largest ally of Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh 
ruled out a patch-up after it quit the coalition over policy
toward war crimes in  Sri Lanka . Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam’s exit
has left Singh 44 seats short of the halfway mark in the lower
house of parliament and more reliant on regional parties outside
the alliance to win the passage of legislation.  “The market believes the reforms agenda will temporarily
be put on the back burner and the government’s focus will
possibly return to self-preservation,” Manishi Raychaudhuri,
head of Indian equity research at BNP Paribas Securities (Asia)
Ltd., told Bloomberg TV India today.  ICICI Bank sank 3 percent to 1,001.55 rupees, the lowest
close since Sept. 13.  HDFC Bank Ltd. (HDFCB) , India’s largest lender by
value, slid 1 percent to 625.5 rupees.  State Bank of India , the
biggest by assets, lost 3.8 percent to 2,120.4 rupees. The  S&P
BSE Bankex (BANKEX)  lost 2.1 percent to close below its 200-day average
for the first time since Sept. 5.  ‘Greater Scrutiny’  ICICI Bank, HDFC Bank and Axis Bank Ltd. were involved in
money laundering, news website Cobrapost reported last week.
ICICI Bank on March 16 suspended 18 staff members and HDFC Bank
hired Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu India to probe the report. The
 Reserve Bank  of India is collecting information on the report,
Deputy Governor Urjit Patel said March 14.  “There’s concern greater Reserve Bank scrutiny on private
banks will lead to more restrictions on lending,” A.K.
Prabhakar, senior vice president of equity research at Anand
Rathi Financial Services Ltd. in Mumbai, said by e-mail.  Oil & Natural Gas (ONGC)  Corp., the nation’s biggest explorer,
retreated 2.9 percent to 300.8 rupees, the lowest since Jan. 11.
 Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. (MM)  fell 0.6 percent to 873.4 rupees.
Utility  NTPC Ltd. (NTPC)  dropped 3.4 percent to 139.35 rupees, the
lowest close since November 2008.  Singh is battling to refocus the government ahead of an
election next year, ending two years of criticism over alleged
corruption and a slowing economy. India’s economy will grow at 5
percent this fiscal year, the slowest in a decade. Bills to
boost foreign investment in pensions and insurance are among
those the government wants to pass.  Monetary Easing  The Sensex also fell yesterday after the  Reserve Bank of
India  pared the benchmark  repurchase rate  to 7.5 percent from
7.75 percent and said inflation and the current-account deficit
limit the scope for further monetary easing. The government is
trying to contain the budget shortfall to damp price pressures.  The stock gauge has retreated 2.8 percent this year, the
worst-performing benchmark index in Asia after Malaysia. The
gauge trades at 12.8 times projected 12-month profits, compared
with the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index’s 10.5 times.  Overseas funds bought a net $27 million of local stocks on
March 19, data from the regulator show. Foreign investors have
purchased a net $9.81 billion of local equities this year, a
record for the period, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The 50-stock CNX  Nifty (NIFTY)  Index retreated 0.9 percent to
5,694.40 and its March futures settled at 5,724. The India VIX,
the benchmark measure for options prices, fell 0.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allen Wan at 
 awan3@bloomberg.net  