-- India Rupee Touches Two-Week Low After Singh Ally Pulls Support
-- B y   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n
-- 2013-03-20T11:48:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/india-s-rupee-forwards-drop-after-key-singh-ally-pulls-support.html
India’s rupee touched a two-week
low after a key ally of Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  quit the
coalition, raising questions about whether the government can
push forward with policy changes.  Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, one of nine partners in the
ruling alliance, said yesterday it would stop supporting Singh’s
administration over its approach to alleged  war crimes  in Sri
Lanka, leaving the government more reliant on regional parties
to pass measures to spur economic growth. The central bank cut
the repurchase rate by 25 basis points to 7.50 percent yesterday
and said inflation and the current-account  deficit  limit the
scope for further monetary easing.  “It is very much a choice between a rock and a hard place
for the rupee now,” said Andy Ji, a foreign-exchange strategist
in Singapore at  Commonwealth Bank of Australia. (CBA)  “There will be
constant fear in the market now about how policies are going to
be implemented, and there are also macro risks of inflation and
the current-account deficit.”  The rupee was little changed at 54.3675 per dollar in
Mumbai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It touched
54.565 earlier, the lowest level since March 7, and has declined
0.6 percent this week. One-month implied volatility in the
rupee, a measure of expected moves in the  exchange rate  used to
price options, rose 8 basis points, or 0.08 percentage point, to
9.26 percent.  The  economy  expanded 4.5 percent in the three months
through December, the slowest pace since 2009, official data
show.  Policy Changes  Without DMK’s support, the government will be 44 seats
short of a majority, and will be dependent on the backing of
parties such as the Samajwadi Party and Bahujan Samaj Party,
which compete for power in the country’s most populous state,
 Uttar Pradesh .  Singh’s administration began unveiling policies to
jumpstart growth and improve public finances in September after
 Fitch Ratings  and  Standard & Poor’s  warned the nation’s credit
ratings may be downgraded to junk. The government cut a levy on
overseas corporate debt, reduced energy subsidies and allowed
more foreign investment in industries including aviation and
retail.  The rupee has appreciated 1.9 percent versus the dollar
since the changes began on Sept. 13. It remains down 7.3 percent
in the past 12 months.  Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram said in an
interview last week the nation may ease restrictions on foreign-
direct investment. He also said Indian companies seem “quite
happy” with the rupee at its current level of 54 to 55 per
dollar. Last month, he set a budget-deficit  goal  of 4.8 percent
of GDP for the year starting April 1, 2014, 0.4 percentage point
lower than this year.  Credible Plan  The plan is credible and the threat of Asia’s third-largest
economy losing investment-grade status has “clearly receded by
quite a few yards,” said Chidambaram.  “The political uncertainty created by the ally party
leaving the coalition shouldn’t cause a near-term election but
may slow down the government’s reform agenda or take their focus
away from this issue,” said  Jonathan Cavenagh , a currency
strategist in Singapore at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  “That’s
something which will weigh on  market sentiment .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
V. Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  