-- Indonesia Vows to Stay Open to Investors as $86 Billion Booked
-- B y   C h u a   B a i z h e n   a n d   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g
-- 2013-03-20T06:43:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/indonesia-vows-to-stay-open-to-investors-as-86-billion-booked.html
Indonesia  pledged to remain open to
overseas companies and deliver on infrastructure projects as
Southeast  Asia ’s largest economy seeks to realize about $86
billion of foreign investment booked last year.  The presidential election due next year shouldn’t prevent
the country from pursuing efforts to attract investors and spur
growth, M. Chatib Basri, chairman of the nation’s Investment
Coordinating Board, signaled in a Bloomberg Television interview
with  Susan Li  in  Hong Kong  today.  “Close to election the political situation tends to be
heated but rationally if Indonesia wants to grow by 7 percent,
it should be a country with open economy, open to the foreign
investors,” he said. Recent changes in mining industry rules to
limit the export of raw materials are aimed at increasing the
value of the country’s products, he said.  President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono , whose second term ends
in 2014, has promised to build more roads, bridges and ports in
the world’s biggest archipelago to sustain one of Asia’s fastest
growth rates. The government has targeted expansion of as much
as 6.8 percent this year, and demand from Indonesia’s growing
middle class has lured companies including Toyota Motor Corp. to
boost investments.  Toyota, Asia’s biggest carmaker, said in November it would
build a new engine factory in Indonesia to more than double
capacity as demand surges. The company opened a new $1.3 billion
factory about a week ago, Basri said today.  After deducting the record foreign investment of more than
$24 billion received last year, Indonesia still has about $50
billion to be realized from the total booked amount of about $86
billion, he said. The country will be able to implement
infrastructure projects beyond 2014 and plans to open about 12
airports this year, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net ;
Chua Baizhen in Singapore at 
 bchua14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  