-- Copper Advances as Morgan Stanley Sees Demand Reviving in China
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r   a n d   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2013-03-20T18:26:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/industrial-metals-advance-as-four-month-low-attracts-investors.html
Copper rebounded from the lowest
price since August after Morgan Stanley predicted increased
demand in  China , the world’s biggest user.  Supply-chain inventories of copper are low in China as
manufacturers order more of the metal, the bank said in a report
dated yesterday. Copper and nickel led gains for metals today as
investors speculated that the European Central Bank will
continue to support Cyprus, helping to allay concern that the
region’s debt turmoil will erode economic growth.  “Major copper end-demand market indicators, like air-
conditioner sales and state-grid-equipment orders, are all
improving, while copper inventories at downstream producers
remain low,” Rachel Zhang, an Hong Kong-based analyst at Morgan
Stanley, wrote in a report. “We believe restocking will be
evident in the next couple of months.”  Copper futures for delivery in May advanced 1.2 percent to
settle at $3.4465 a pound at 1:13 p.m. on the Comex in New York,
the biggest gain since Feb. 1. Prices yesterday slid to $3.388,
the lowest for a most-active contract since Aug. 21.  China has increased wind-farm approvals, the National
Energy Administration said yesterday. The Copper Development
Association  says  the generator in a 5-megawatt wind turbine
needs 3.4 metric tons of the metal to convert the wind’s energy
to electricity.  Rising supplies may hold copper in check. Prices on average
will slip 2 percent this year as stockpiles expand, an
Australian government forecaster said.  Inventories tracked by the London Metal Exchange climbed
for a 25th session to 550,825 tons, daily exchange figures
showed. Orders to remove the metal from warehouses surged 77
percent, the most since December 2011, to 64,675 tons on
bookings in Antwerp,  Belgium .  On the LME, copper for delivery in three months rose 1.2
percent to $7,620 a ton ($3.46 a pound).  Aluminum, nickel, lead and zinc also gained in  London . Tin
declined.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net ;
Joe Richter in New York at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  