-- Irving Oil’s Ashar Says New Oil-Sands Upgraders Belong on Coasts
-- B y   D a n   M u r t a u g h ,   E d w a r d   W e l s c h   a n d   R e b e c c a   P e n t y
-- 2013-03-20T19:08:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/irving-oil-s-ashar-says-new-oil-sands-upgraders-belong-on-coasts.html
New upgraders that process heavy
Canadian oil will be built in North American coastal markets
where labor and capital are cheaper than in  Alberta , Irving Oil
Corp. President Mike Ashar said.  Building upgraders in Alberta, where bitumen is mined or
extracted from the oil sands, doesn’t make sense anymore because
labor and equipment costs are so high there that workers should
be focused on production, said Ashar, whose company operates
 Canada ’s  largest refinery , in Saint John, New Brunswick.  Alberta has the largest amount of upgrading capacity in
North America, more than 1.1 million barrels a day from five
upgraders. The units convert heavy oil into synthetic light oil,
which then has to be processed by a conventional refinery.  “The heavy oil upgrading game is over in Alberta; I think
it’s over in Padd 2,” the U.S. Midwest, Ashar told an audience
today at the Hart Energy World Refining & Fuel Conference in San
Antonio.  He said in a phone interview that existing upgraders are
viable. New plants should be built on the coasts, where labor
costs are lower than in Alberta and where large refining
equipment doesn’t have to be shipped over land, said Ashar, who
was previously executive vice president at oil-sands operator
 Suncor Energy Inc. (SU)   “That resource is better deployed at extracting the oil
versus upgrading it,” he said at the conference.  Suncor Project  Suncor, one of the largest upgrader operators, told
investors in its fourth-quarter earnings release last month that
the economics of a proposed Alberta upgrader project with Total
SA are “challenged.” The company plans to decide the Voyageur
project’s fate later this month.  Inflation rates are subdued in Alberta, rising just 1.1
percent in 2012 compared with a  1.5 percent increase  across the
country, according to Statistics Canada, the federal statistics
agency. However, the supply of skilled workers in the oil
industry is very tight, the Petroleum Human Resources Council of
Canada said.  “Industry will be challenged to manage workforce costs in
this employee-driven labor market,” the Council said in a 2012
report. It estimates the oil-sands industry will have to more
than double its current work force by 2021 because of industry
expansion, retirements and turnover.  Judith Dwarkin, chief energy economist at ITG Investment
Research Inc. in Calgary, she believes it’s risky to build a
stand-alone upgrader anywhere because it’s expensive and the
volatile price of heavy Canadian oil makes profits uncertain.
Adding cokers to existing refineries to process heavy oil makes
more sense, she said.  “This is what refiners in the U.S. with access to, or
hoping for more access to, Canadian bitumen blends are doing,”
she said in a telephone interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dan Murtaugh in Houston at 
 dmurtaugh@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Welsch in Calgary at 
 ewelsch1@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  