-- Japan Stock Futures Gain on Fed, Before China Manufacturing Data
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2013-03-20T23:24:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/japan-stock-futures-gain-on-fed-before-china-manufacturing-data.html
Japanese  stock futures  and
Australian shares rose as the  Federal Reserve  said it will
continue buying bonds to stimulate the  U.S. economy , and as
investors awaited data that may show manufacturing in China
expanded.  American Depositary Receipts of Nissan Motor Co., an
automaker that gets 80 percent of its sales outside Japan,
advanced 1.8 percent as the yen weakened against the dollar. BHP
Billiton Ltd., the world’s largest mining company, climbed 0.7
percent as metals prices increased.  Futures on Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  expiring in
June closed at 12,580 in Chicago yesterday, up from 12,330 at
the close in Osaka, Japan. They were bid in the pre-market at
12,520 in Osaka at 8:05 a.m. local time. Australia’s  S&P/ASX 200
Index (AS51)  advanced 0.2 percent and New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index rose
0.1 percent.  “Asian equities can still rise 15 to 20 percent from here
by the end of the year,” Herald Van Der Linde, head of equity
strategy for Asia Pacific at HSBC Holding Plc in  Hong Kong , said
in a phone interview. Stocks “will benefit from improving
financial conditions as a result of interventions of major
central banks. China continues to be a good value market.”  China’s Shanghai Composite Index declined from its peaks
for the year amid concern an economic recovery will falter as
officials take steps to cool the property market and restrain
inflation. The gauge is valued at 9.9 times estimated earnings
compared with 14.9 for the MSCI Asia Pacific Index, the
benchmark regional equities gauge, 14.1 for the  Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  and a multiple of 12.7 for the Stoxx Europe 600
Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  S&P Futures  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index were little
changed. The S&P 500 yesterday snapped a three-day decline as
the Fed said it will maintain stimulus and euro-area leaders
weighed options for Cyprus.  More than three years into the U.S. economy’s expansion,
the central bank led by Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  is pressing on
with open-ended purchases of Treasury and mortgage securities to
boost the pace of growth and heal a labor market still scarred
by the deepest recession since the Great Depression.  The  Federal Open Market Committee , at the conclusion of a
two-day meeting in Washington, left unchanged its statement that
it plans to hold its target interest rate near zero as long as
 unemployment  remains above 6.5 percent and inflation is
projected to be no more than 2.5 percent.  Forecasts Cut  Policy makers lowered their expectations for the
 unemployment rate  at the end of the year to a range of 7.3
percent to 7.5 percent, from a previous forecast of 7.4 percent
to 7.7 percent. The economy will expand 2.3 percent to 2.8
percent this year, they estimate, compared with their earlier
forecast of 2.3 percent to 3 percent growth.  In China, HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics are due to
release a preliminary manufacturing index for this month. The
gauge may rise to 50.8 from 50.4 in February, according to the
median estimate of 11 analysts in a Bloomberg survey. A reading
above 50 indicates expansion.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. climbed 2.2 percent in New York
yesterday.  Options contracts on Australian equity indexes are due to
 expire  today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  