-- Jefferson County Appeals Court Sets Mandatory Talk Dates
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2013-03-20T22:31:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/jefferson-county-appeals-court-sets-mandatory-talk-dates.html
Jefferson County,  Alabama , and
creditors it is fighting in bankruptcy were ordered to meet with
a court mediator, a routine process used to try to settle cases
before they are argued in front of appellate court judges.  The list of participants include the trustee for sewage
system creditors owed about $3.2 billion, JPMorgan Chase Bank,
bond insurers and a group known as the Ad Hoc Sewer
Warrantholders. Those holders include  hedge funds  Brigade
Capital Management LLC, Claren Road Asset Management LLC,
Fundamental Advisors LP and Monarch Capital Master Partners LP.  The county and the same group of creditors have repeatedly
failed to agree on how to end the bankruptcy, which involves the
largest amount of debt a U.S. municipality has ever tried to
reorganize under court protection. Orange County,  California ,
filed a larger bankruptcy in the 1990s, but much of its debt was
quickly resolved in the early weeks of the case.  The trustee for sewer creditors,  Bank of New York Mellon 
Corp., is battling the county in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in
Birmingham, Alabama, and in a federal appeals court in Atlanta
over whether the county or a receiver should run the sewage
system.  The appeals court ordered the mediation, which is scheduled
to take place April 24-25. The county and the creditors are
scheduled to argue their appeals in July.  The case is In re Jefferson County, 11-bk-05736, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Northern District of Alabama (Birmingham). The
appellate case is Jefferson County, Alabama v.  Bank of Nova
Scotia (BNS)   New York , 13-10348,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the
Eleventh Circuit (Atlanta).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Farr at 
 sfarr@bloomberg.net  