-- JPMorgan to Sell Mortgage Debt With Weaker Repurchase Rules
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2013-03-20T19:56:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/jpmorgan-to-sell-bonds-backed-by-616-million-of-mortgages.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  is planning to
sell securities backed by $616 million of new U.S. home loans
that don’t have government support, its first offering in the
so-called non-agency market since the financial crisis.  The bonds are made riskier by the New York-based bank and
other originators of the  mortgages  offering weaker promises to
repurchase misrepresented loans than those on similar deals,
 Fitch Ratings  said today in an e-mailed report. Lenders and bond
sponsors have been seeking to trim potential liabilities in such
deals as the market revives after suffering billions of dollars
of losses from debt sold before the  collapse  in  home prices .  The value of the so-called representations and warranties
in the JPMorgan transaction is “significantly diluted by
qualifying and conditional language that substantially reduces
lender loan breach liability and the inclusion of sunsets for a
number of provisions including fraud,” New York-based Fitch
analysts including Roelof Slump wrote in the presale report.  The classes of the deal expected to receive top credit
ratings carried loss buffers of 7.4 percent as Fitch said it
adjusted its analysis to reflect the greater investor dangers
created by the weaker contracts, according to the report. That
compares with so-called credit enhancement, created by items
such as other bonds being first in line to absorb losses of the
underlying loans, of 7.05 percent in a  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) 
deal in February and 6.5 percent in a transaction last month by
 Redwood Trust Inc. (RWT) , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Jumbo Loans  Jennifer Zuccarelli , a JPMorgan spokeswoman, didn’t
immediately return a telephone message seeking comment on the
transaction.  The JPMorgan securities are backed by “high-quality prime
mortgages,” with average balances of $819,495, according to the
Fitch report. That suggests that the loans are so-called jumbo
mortgages as such big loans dominate the revival in the non-
agency bond market led by Redwood and Credit Suisse.  Those two firms, the only previous issuers since the market
revived in 2010, have completed deals backed by about $2.1
billion of new mortgages this year, compared with $3.5 billion
in all of last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Issuance peaked at $1.2 trillion in both 2005 and 2006 before
collapsing as prices tumbled amid soaring foreclosures and
plunging real-estate values.  Kroll Grades  Jumbo home loans are larger than allowed in government-
supported programs, currently as much as $729,750 for single-
family properties in some areas. For  Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac
loans with the lowest costs for borrowers using 20 percent down
payments, limits range from $417,000 to $625,500.  Kroll Bond Rating Agency plans to assign similar grades to
the JPMorgan bonds as Fitch, according to a report today.  While it also saw the representation and warranty
provisions as a “credit negative,” those features were
mitigated by the debt’s high quality and reviews of all of their
files by a third-party firm, Kroll said in its presale report.  “If similar provisions were present in a transaction that
had lower quality collateral, was subjected to less robust third
party diligence review or had a higher proportion of originators
that were potentially financially weaker, Kroll Bond Rating
Agency might forecast higher expected loss levels or consider a
downward adjustment of its ratings,” the firm said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  