-- Kentucky Lands Top 10 Recruit Randle After First-Round NIT Exit
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-03-20T18:54:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/kentucky-lands-top-10-recruit-randle-after-first-round-nit-exit.html
Julius Randle of  Dallas  said he
will attend the  University of Kentucky , the fourth high-school
basketball recruit in ESPN’s Top 10 to commit to last season’s
national collegiate champion as it tries to rebuild.  Randle, No. 3 on ESPN’s list of  2013 recruits , made the
announcement today in a televised press conference. The Wildcats
didn’t qualify for the 2013 National Collegiate Athletic
Association tournament, and lost last night in the opening round
of the National Invitation Tournament.  “It’s the best fit for me,” Randle said. “In my heart, I
wanted to be at  Kentucky .”  A 6-foot-9, 225-pound forward, Randle missed most of his
senior season with a broken right foot, according to the Dallas
Morning News. He returned to average 28.8 points and 15 rebounds
in  Prestonwood Christian Academy ’s final five games of the year,
the newspaper said.  Point guard Andrew Harrison of Richmond,  Texas , ESPN’s No.
5 recruit, and his brother, guard Aaron Harrison, No. 7, earlier
committed to the Wildcats. Forward James Young of Rochester,
 Michigan , No. 6, also said he will attend the Lexington-based
school.  Kentucky won its eighth national title last year and opened
this year ranked No. 3 in the Associated Press poll. The team
finished the regular season 21-11, missed the NCAA tournament
for the first time since 2009 and lost last night in the first
round of the second-tier NIT, 59-57, to Robert Morris.  The Wildcats have the top 2013 recruiting class in the
country, according to ESPN’s ratings. The school had the second
best group of incoming freshman last year, behind UCLA, after
recruiting the No. 1 classes three years in a row.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  