-- King Defeated in QE Vote as BOE Raises Pound Concerns: Economy
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2013-03-20T11:20:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/king-defeated-in-6-3-vote-as-boe-raises-concerns-on-pound-1-.html
Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King  was defeated for a second month in a vote to expand
stimulus as the majority of policy makers said more bond
purchases may erode their credibility and push the pound lower.  The Monetary Policy Committee voted 6-3 to keep the target
for buying at 375 billion pounds ($566 billion), the central
bank said in minutes of its March 7 meeting, published in  London 
today. King,  David Miles  and  Paul Fisher  wanted a 25 billion-
pound increase, repeating their push from February. A separate
report showed unemployment rose for the first time in a year.  The majority said that with inflation above the BOE’s 2
percent target, there was a risk that adding to stimulus “could
lead to inflation expectations drifting upwards.” They also
said it “might also lead to an unwarranted depreciation of
sterling if it were misinterpreted as a lack of commitment to
maintaining low inflation in the medium term.”  The pound is the second-worst performer after the yen this
year among 10 developed-market currencies, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. It’s dropped about 6.8
percent against the dollar and 5 percent versus the euro.  The currency’s weakness may stoke price pressures by
boosting the cost of imports.  U.K. inflation  accelerated to 2.8
percent in February, the fastest pace in nine months. That
marked the 39th month that it was above the BOE’s goal.  Pound Decline  The minutes come less than a week after King said in an ITV
News interview that the BOE isn’t trying to talk down the pound
and that the currency is now “broadly stable.”  The BOE said today that it “remained appropriate to
accommodate” the first-round impact on inflation from the
weakness of sterling if it reflected “real factors,” such as
the required rebalancing of the economy or an unwinding of haven
flows as risk appetite among investors increased.  Still, it added that “prospective movements in the
 exchange rate  that reflected perceptions that monetary policy
would remain excessively loose, or that the MPC’s commitment to
meeting the inflation target in the medium term was diminished,
would be a different matter.”  The pound erased its decline against the dollar after the
minutes were released. It was at $1.5131 as of 11 a.m. in
London, up 0.2 percent from yesterday.  BOE Remit  Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney , who succeeds King in
July, has sparked a debate on the BOE’s remit, promoting the
idea of flexible targeting. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne , who reaffirms the inflation target in the budget, may
announce a change to the existing monetary framework today. He
is due to speak in Parliament in London at 12:30 p.m.  The MPC majority “thought that the costs of more QE
outweighed the benefits for now,” said Samuel Tombs, an
economist at  Capital Economics  in London. Still, if there’s a
remit change to allow “more aggressive monetary policy, then it
may not be long before a majority are voting for more
stimulus.”  On the outlook for the  economy , the MPC said growth should
pick up during the year, though it noted the “uncertain”
global backdrop and the threat from continued “strains” in the
euro area. The policy makers also said that inflation is “more
likely” to remain above the 2 percent goal for much of the next
three years.  “The committee would continue to watch closely for any
signs that inflation expectations had risen to a point
inconsistent with, or making more difficult and costly, the task
of meeting the 2 percent inflation target,” the BOE said.  Stimulus Debate  On the need for more asset purchases, the majority of the
MPC said there were limits to what they “could be expected to
achieve to support output when some banks and households were
reducing their indebtedness and the economy needed to
rebalance.” The minority argued the opposite, saying they could
“facilitate a smoother path” of economic adjustment.  “To varying degrees, all members saw merit in each set of
arguments,” the BOE said in the final section of the minutes.
“But members drew different conclusions about the best policy
setting to bring inflation back to the target in the medium term
while continuing to support output and employment.”  David Tinsley , an economist at BNP Paribas SA in London,
said the minutes “give the impression of fairly firmly set
positions, with the exchange rate being a particular concern.”  “The forthcoming budget and potential new credit easing
schemes, along with the potential change in the remit were
probably hanging over the committee, making any great change in
March unlikely,” he said.  Benchmark Rate  Today’s report didn’t repeat some ideas floated last month
for reviving the economy, such as a cut in the  key interest rate 
from its current record low of 0.5 percent. Policy makers did
note that their Funding for Lending Scheme gave a picture of
“broadly flat” bank lending.  Still, “the outlook for new lending to households and
businesses appeared more promising than the headline FLS numbers
might suggest,” the minutes said. And, “perhaps as a
consequence of the FLS, the housing market had continued to show
some signs of thawing.”  In the labor-market report, the statistics office said that
unemployment claims fell 1,500 from January to 1.54 million. The
median forecast in a Bloomberg survey was for a drop of 5,000.
In the quarter through January, unemployment measured by
International Labour Organisation methods rose 7,000 to 2.52
million, the first increase since January 2012.  The figures are a blow to Osborne as he prepares to deliver
another austerity budget. They suggest the labor market is
slowing as the economy risks falling into a third recession in
five years.  In the U.S., the  Federal Reserve  will complete a two-day
policy meeting later today. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has pledged
to press on with a program buying $40 billion a month of
mortgage bonds and $45 billion in Treasuries until the labor
market improves “‘substantially.’’  The Fed chief will probably halt the unprecedented easing
in the first half of next year after expanding central bank
assets to a record of about $4 trillion, according to a
Bloomberg survey. The FOMC plans to release a statement at 2
p.m. today in  Washington .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  