-- Koenig Said to Represent Germany at ECB Bank Supervisor
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r   a n d   A n n e t t e   W e i s b a c h
-- 2013-03-20T16:35:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/koenig-said-to-represent-germany-at-ecb-bank-supervisor.html
Germany  will nominate Elke Koenig,
president of financial regulator Bafin, to represent the country
on the European Central Bank’s new banking supervision board,
according to two people familiar with the decision-making
process.  While the Federal Finance Ministry will propose Koenig for
Germany’s spot in the European regulator, it’s not intended that
she chair the body, said one of the people, who spoke on
condition of anonymity because the talks are confidential.  Jean-Claude Juncker, the former head of the group of euro-
area finance ministers, said in January that the new banking
regulator will be headed by a French woman, remarks that fueled
speculation Koenig’s French counterpart Daniele Nouy will be
chosen for the job.  Spokeswomen for Bafin and the Bundesbank declined to
comment.  European Union lawmakers and national governments yesterday
clinched a provisional deal on legislation to turn the ECB into
the supervisor by mid-2014. The agreement hands lawmakers a role
in appointing the head of the supervision board. Under the deal,
the ECB will put forward a nominee for formal approval by the
European Parliament as well as individual member states.  The legislation to hand the ECB bank oversight powers must
still be approved by national governments and the European
Parliament before it can take effect. It will take at least a
year for the ECB to set up its role once regulations are in
place.  The Frankfurt-based central bank will have to hire 600 to
800 people to fulfill its new task, one of the people familiar
with the matter said.  ECB Vice President  Vitor Constancio  said in December the
number of new employees “would have to be slightly above 500,
but not reaching 1,000.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net ;
Annette Weisbach in Frankfurt at 
 aweisbach1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  