-- Korean Won Options Most Bearish Since June as Volatility Climbs
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g   a n d   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2013-03-20T04:44:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/korean-won-options-most-bearish-since-june-as-volatility-climbs.html
The cost to protect the won against
losses using options contracts is near a nine-month high as
Europe’s debt crisis threatens to escalate at a time when a
weaker yen is putting  South Korea ’s exports at risk.  The premium for one-month won put options granting the
right to sell the currency on March 18 was 2.82 percentage
points over calls, which allow for purchases, the biggest
difference since June 14. The so-called risk-reversal rate was
2.70 percentage points as of 1:28 p.m. in Seoul, 1.86 points
higher than at the start of the year, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. One-month implied volatility, used by traders to
price options, jumped 409 basis points, or 4.09 percentage
points, so far in 2013 to 9.03 percent.  The won dropped as much as 0.8 percent today to a six-month
low of 1,119.95 per dollar after Eun Sung Soo, a director
general at the  finance ministry , said the government is
considering measures to “ease capital flow volatility,”
including taxes on financial transactions. Twelve-month non-
deliverable forwards on the currency weakened 0.6 percent to
1,138.56. The won weakened 4.9 percent so far this year, while
the  Japanese yen  sank 9.4 percent.  “The options market is pricing in all those bearish views
on the won,” said  Tsutomu Soma , who manages the fixed-income
business unit at Rakuten Securities Inc. in  Tokyo . “The weaker
yen this year is hurting their stocks and encouraging
outflows.”  The Kospi Index of shares declined 1.2 percent this year as
overseas investors sold $692 million more South Korean stocks
than they bought, exchange data show. Samsung Electronics Co.,
the nation’s biggest exporter, fell 3 percent.  North Korea  Heightened tensions with  North Korea  are cooling demand for
assets in the South. Kim Jong Un’s regime threatened this month
to use atomic weapons in response to tougher United Nations
sanctions and warned today of military action if there is a
repeat of yesterday’s flight by a U.S. B-52 bomber over the
Korean peninsula.  The  Bank of Korea  said on March 14 South Korea’s economy is
expected to maintain its trend of “modest improvement” in
coming months. Fiscal tightening in advanced nations and changes
in the yen’s value pose risks, it added.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net ;
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  