-- Korean Equities Extend Losses as Cyber Attack Probed
-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n   a n d   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 2013-03-21T07:13:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/korean-bids-signal-stock-rebound-as-cyber-attack-probed.html
South Korean  stocks  fell, extending
the benchmark index’s biggest drop in two months yesterday,
after a cyberattack shut down  computer networks  at some of the
nation’s biggest banks and broadcasters.  SK Telecom Co., the largest Korean wireless operator,
slumped 2.2 percent. Woori Finance Holdings Co., fell more than
2 percent for a second day.  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , South
Korea’s biggest company by market value, retreated.  The Kospi slipped 0.4 percent to 1,950.82 at the close in
Seoul, the lowest since Feb. 12, after earlier rising as much as
0.7 percent. The gauge retreated 1 percent yesterday with about
half of the slump occurring in the last 20 minutes of trading.
President Park Geun Hye has ordered an investigation into
whether North Korea was behind the outages, according to a
statement from her office. The cyberattack used malware code
from  China , according to an initial investigation that is
focusing on possible links to North Korea.  “It shouldn’t be a big surprise even if the communist
regime is found to be behind this,” Kim Jae Dong, head of
equity investments in Seoul at SEI Asset Korea Co., which
manages about $5.7 billion in assets, said by phone yesterday.
“History shows that South Korean markets are resilient to
provocations by the North, and I think this time won’t be
different.”  The Kospi has fallen 2.3 percent this year, compared with a
2.8 percent retreat in the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index. Trading
volumes in Kospi shares were about 29 percent less than the 30-
day average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The Kospi
200  Volatility Index , a measure of the cost to protect against
equity losses, rose 0.6 percent to the highest level in four
months.  Broadcasters Affected  The valuation on the Kospi is 8.9 times projected 12-month
earnings after the plunge, the cheapest level since Feb. 7, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Computer systems of at least three banks and three
television stations were shut down. Companies including  Shinhan
Bank , Nonghyup Bank, YTN, Munhwa Broadcasting Corp. and Korean
Broadcasting System were affected, according to the Korea
Communications Commission.  Around 32,000 servers were damaged in yesterday’s attack,
the Korea Communications Commission said today in a statement.
China’s Foreign Ministry didn’t immediately respond to faxed
questions seeking comment.  SK Telecom fell 2.2 percent to 180,000 won. Samsung, Asia’s
biggest maker of chips and flat screens, slipped 0.2 percent to
1,457,000 won. Woori Finance slumped 2.1 percent to 11,800 won.
Shinhan Financial Group, which owns Shinhan Bank, dropped 1.6
percent in a ninth day of losses, the longest losing streak
since June 2008.  1953 Armistice  North Korea  this month threatened to scrap the 1953
armistice that ended the  Korean War  and cancel a cross-border
phone hotline after the UN Security Council unanimously approved
tougher sanctions over a forbidden nuclear test. The two Koreas
remain technically at war as the 1950 to 1953 conflict ended in
a truce, not a peace treaty.  U.S.  stocks  rose yesterday, snapping a three-day decline in
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, as the  Federal Reserve  said it
will keep up its bond buying to stimulate the economy and euro-
area leaders weighed options for Cyprus.  “Even if North Korea is found to be responsible for the
attacks, the impact won’t be big,” Colin Kim, head of  portfolio
management  at the multi-strategy division of Mirae Asset Global
Investments Co., which oversees about $50 billion, said by phone
yesterday. “What happens in European and U.S. markets will have
a bigger sway over market direction.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Patterson  in  Hong Kong  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  