-- Won Falls to Six-Month Low on Concern Korea Will Curb Fund Flows
-- B y   S e y o o n   K i m
-- 2013-03-20T06:38:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/korean-won-falls-to-near-6-month-low-on-cyprus-vote-bonds-drop.html
South  Korea ’s won touched the
weakest level since September after the government said it will
consider steps to curb capital flows if needed. Government bonds
dropped.  Eun Sung Soo, director general at the finance ministry,
told reporters today that both new measures and tightening of
existing ones will be possible. Policy makers will consider
“various” financial taxes if needed and closely monitor
foreign-currency debt, he said. The won also fell as investors
shunned emerging-market assets after Cypriot lawmakers rejected
an unprecedented levy on bank deposits.  “Recent moves in the currency show volatility has widened
due to various factors in international financial markets,
including Cyprus and yen movements,” said Kwon Young Sun, Hong
Kong-based economist at Nomura International Ltd. “It’s prudent
for authorities to try to focus their policy on risk management
as they pre-emptively try to reduce volatility and also shun
expectations for future currency moves.”  The won dropped 0.5 percent to 1,116.30 per dollar in
 Seoul , after declining as much as 0.8 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The currency touched 1,119.95 per dollar,
the weakest since Sept. 27. One-month implied volatility for the
won, a measure of expected moves in the exchange rate used to
price options, climbed 20 basis points, or 0.2 percentage point,
to 8.98 percent.  “To ease capital flow volatility, South Korea will
consider introducing various financial taxes if needed,” Eun
said in Seoul. “Tightening existing measures is also
possible.”  Bank of Korea  A crisis that has rocked the global economy and financial
system in recent years may have entered its final stage, South
Korean central bank Governor Kim Choong Soo said at a meeting
with economists in Seoul today. Kim, who didn’t mention Cyprus,
said the Bank of Korea will consider domestic growth and
inflation and global conditions for trade when setting policy.  The authority kept benchmark borrowing costs unchanged at
2.75 percent at a March 14 review.  The yield on South Korea’s 2.75 percent bonds due December
2015 rose one basis point to 2.60 percent, according to prices
from Korea Exchange Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seyoon Kim in Seoul at 
 skim7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  