-- N.J. Turnpike Bonds Aided by Most Demand in 4 Years: Muni Credit
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e   a n d   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2013-03-20T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/n-j-turnpike-bonds-aided-by-most-demand-in-4-years-muni-credit.html
New Jersey  Turnpike Authority’s
biggest tax-exempt borrowing since 2000 is poised to benefit
from the lowest relative borrowing costs in almost four years
for municipal securities rated below AAA.  The agency oversees the 148-mile (238-kilometer) highway
and the 173-mile Garden State Parkway, which handle about 1.6
million vehicles daily combined. It plans to issue $1.4 billion
of debt today with an A+ rank from  Standard & Poor’s , four steps
below the top. The yield spread investors demand on similarly
graded munis is the narrowest since May 2009, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  The bonds will help finance a $3 billion road-widening
project that will double traffic capacity in central New Jersey
while adding lanes for traffic bound for the  Jersey Shore .
Governor  Chris Christie , a Republican seeking re-election in
November, is counting on beach-bound tourism to propel the
“Jersey Comeback” he says is boosting the economy of the 11th-
most-populous state.  “ New Jersey Turnpike  has benefitted from the tightening in
all areas of the muni  bond market ,” said Matt Dalton, who helps
manage $1.5 billion of munis at Belle Haven Investments Inc. in
 White Plains ,  New York . “There’s been a lot of focus on single-
A. It’s where a lot of buyers have gone to find that little bit
of extra yield.”  Below Average  Even after yields on 20-year general obligations rose last
week to an 11-month high of  4 percent , the  interest rate  remains
below the average of 5.89 percent since 1961 after setting a
generational low in December, Bond Buyer data shows.  Investors looking to boost returns have been buying lower-
rated munis such as obligations of the New Jersey Turnpike
agency and  Illinois , graded two steps weaker by S&P at A-.  The New Jersey sale will offer higher relative yields than
other debt sold in the state with better credit, while also
providing the security of an essential service, said Robert Amodeo, who manages $30 billion of munis at Western Asset
Management in New York. The turnpike is the main roadway in the
state, connecting  New York City  and Philadelphia.  “It’s a primary north-south artery in a state with really
no comparative high-speed competition,” Amodeo said.  Traffic Turn  Traffic on the Turnpike has fallen since the 18-month
recession that began in 2007. After peaking at 252 million
vehicles in 2006, it dropped to about 225 million last year,
according to bond documents.  Yet investors can take comfort in toll increases in 2008
and 2012 that helped increase revenue to $992 million last year
from $533 million six years earlier. Turnpike officials expect
revenue to rise further in the next decade as the economy
improves and ridership grows.  The extra yield investors demand to buy A- munis due in 10
years compared with benchmark debt fell to  0.8 percentage point 
last week, the narrowest spread since May 2009, Bloomberg data
show.  At the same time, Turnpike bonds maturing in January 2035
traded yesterday with an average yield of 3.16 percent, or 0.2
percentage point above benchmark munis, Bloomberg data show. The
difference was 0.3 percentage point a year ago.  Outflow Time  While A- bonds have rallied, the $3.7 trillion municipal
market is seeing mutual-fund outflows as investors sell or avoid
buying to make April 15 tax payments, said Daniel Solender, who
helps manage $19.5 billion of munis at Lord Abbett & Co. in
 Jersey City , New Jersey.  Investors withdrew assets from the funds the past two
weeks, Lipper US Fund Flows data show. That may require the
authority to add yield above a single-A muni index to complete
the sale, Solender, Amodeo and Dalton said.  The authority has $8.1 billion of debt, according to
Moody’s Investors Service. It must also make yearly payments to
the state to help finance road and bridge work outside of the
Turnpike system. The authority will pay $324 million annually
this year and in the next two years and $162 million in 2016,
according to bond documents.  Officials don’t anticipate more toll increases are needed
to help finance its 10-year, $7 billion capital program.  ‘Enough Revenue’  Based on financial projections in the authority’s plan,
which goes out to 2020, the system “will have enough revenue at
current toll rates to cover operating costs and debt service and
meet all of our other obligations,” a spokesman,  Tom Feeney ,
said in an e-mail.  This is the largest tax-exempt borrowing for the authority
since 2000, according to Feeney and Bloomberg data. Its last
sale above $1 billion was a taxable deal in 2010 using Build
America Bonds.  “There’ll be some appetite for it,” Dalton said. “Money
managers have room for the name, in most instances.”  The turnpike is selling into a wave of $9.6 billion of
munis offers this week, the year’s busiest calendar. Munis are
the cheapest in almost six months relative to Treasuries.  At  2.03 percent , yields on benchmark 10-year munis are
about 107 percent of those on federal debt, the highest
percentage since Sept. 26, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
ratio, a measure of relative value between the two asset
classes, compares with an average of about 92 percent since
2001.  Munis have lost 0.7 percent this month, compared with a
decline of 0.3 percent in Treasuries, Bank of America Merrill
Lynch data show. Local borrowings lost value in March the past
four years.  Even as muni yields are close to the highest since April,
investors aren’t signaling concern about  credit quality .  It costs the annual equivalent of about $153,000 to protect
$10 million of munis for 10 years through credit-default swaps,
close to the lowest since mid-2011, according to Markit Group
Ltd. index data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net ;
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  