-- N.Z. Grows at Fastest Pace in 3 Years on Christchurch Work
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2013-03-20T22:40:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/n-z-economy-grows-most-in-three-years-before-onset-of-drought.html
New Zealand’s economy grew at the
fastest pace in three years last quarter, led by retailing and 
the rebuilding of earthquake-damaged Christchurch city, sending 
the local dollar higher.  Gross domestic product  rose 1.5 percent in the three months
ended Dec. 31 from the previous quarter, when it expanded 0.2
percent, Statistics New Zealand said in a report released today
in Wellington. Growth exceeded the 0.9 percent median estimate
in a Bloomberg News survey of 10 economists and was almost twice
the central bank’s 0.8 percent forecast.  The economy’s rebound was driven by increased spending on
heavy equipment and consumer durables. Central bank Governor
Graeme Wheeler said last week he expects to keep the official
cash rate at a record-low 2.5 percent until 2014 as the nation’s
worst drought in 30 years and a strong currency counter the
stimulus from Christchurch’s reconstruction.  “This data is a step towards backing our call for earlier
and more aggressive OCR hikes than the market is currently
pricing,” Dominick Stephens, chief New Zealand economist at
 Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  in Auckland, wrote in a research note.
“That said, we do not expect a repeat of this extremely high
growth rate over the coming quarters, as it was partly payback
for the weak growth experienced in mid-2012.”  New Zealand’s dollar rose against the U.S. currency after
the data. It bought 82.62 U.S. cents as of 11:25 a.m. in
Wellington from 82.27 cents immediately before the data.  ‘Big Handbrakes’  Growth is predicted to slow in the first-half of 2013 as
dry conditions in the North Island, including the biggest
dairying region, curb milk collection and hurt farm spending.  “The drought and the ongoing high exchange rate are big
handbrakes,”  Craig Ebert , senior economist at Bank of New
Zealand Ltd. in Wellington, said ahead of the report. BNZ last
week lowered its forecast for first-half growth, citing the
worsening dry conditions.  The economy expanded 3 percent in the fourth quarter from
the year-earlier period, the report showed. That’s faster than
the 2.3 percent growth estimated by economists and the quickest
since the three months ended June 30, 2010. Year-on-year growth
accelerated from 1.9 percent in the third quarter.  Quarterly growth was the strongest since the three months
ended Dec. 31, 2009, the statistics agency said.  Drought Drag  A drought declared across the entire North Island including
Waikato province, the country’s biggest milk producer, will cost
the economy NZ$2 billion ($1.7 billion) as the dry conditions
slow growth, the government estimated last week. Wheeler said
March 14 the drought trimmed as much as 0.3 percentage point off
the Reserve Bank of New Zealand’s previous projections for
growth in the first half.  “It will have some longer-run impact on dairy prices,
pushing prices up that will offset some of the losses from
reduced production,” Finance Minister Bill English said in a
Bloomberg Television interview yesterday. “It may mean a bit
less pressure for interest rates to rise.”  Whole milk powder prices rose to a record at an auction
yesterday, according to  Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd. (FCG) , the
world’s largest dairy exporter.  In the quarter, construction rose 1.8 percent, led by heavy
engineering, as rebuilding began in Christchurch, the country’s
third-largest city which was devastated by a series of
earthquakes in 2010-11, today’s report showed.  Farm Output  Retailing increased 2.5 percent, the most since the first
quarter of 2007, led by so-called durable goods such as
furniture and appliances. Farm production gained 1.5 percent in
the quarter even as dairy output fell, today’s report showed.  Forestry production surged 9 percent, the biggest gain
since 1999, the statistics agency said. Manufacturing declined.  The expenditure measure of GDP advanced 1.4 percent in the
quarter, led by household consumption and exports, today’s
report showed.  Spending on durable goods such as appliances and used cars
contributed most to the largest rise in consumption in six
years, the agency said. Exports, which make up about 30 percent
of the economy, rose 0.9 percent, led by overseas shipments of
logs, the data showed. Imports fell 2 percent.  Investment rose as businesses bought more fixed assets,
primarily plant and equipment, the report showed. Residential
housing investment gained for a sixth straight quarter, led by
demand in Christchurch.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  