-- Nasdaq Dubai Expects to Open Market for Small Companies in 2013
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2013-03-20T11:56:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/nasdaq-dubai-expects-to-open-market-for-small-companies-in-2013.html
Nasdaq Dubai  expects to start an
alternative market this year dedicated to small and medium-sized
companies as the stock exchange based in the emirate’s financial
free zone seeks to boost listings.  The exchange is working to determine the minimum percentage
of shares SMEs will need to sell to the public and the minimum
market value required to qualify for listing, Hamed Ali, acting
chief executive officer of Nasdaq Dubai, said in an interview
today. Nasdaq Dubai has held meetings with an advisory council
including industry representatives and experts, he said.  “We are positive with the progress we have had and we are
well on track to have good news this year,” Ali said. “We are
in a very strong position and we are the number one destination
in the region for SMEs to establish.”  Under Nasdaq Dubai’s current listing rules, companies must
offer at least 25 percent of their equity to the public to list
and must have a minimum market value of $10 million. Some 95
percent of companies in Dubai are SMEs, employing 42 percent of
the workforce and contributing 40 percent to the emirate’s
economic output, the government said in 2011.  Companies are classified as SMEs if they employ as many as
250 people and post annual sales of as much as 250 million
dirhams ($68 million), it said at the time. Nasdaq Dubai was set
up in 2005 in the Dubai International Financial Center with the
aim of applying regulations similar to those in developed
markets, although it’s struggled to attract listings.  The London Stock Exchange started the AIM market for
smaller companies in 1995 and has since listed more than 3,000
companies, according to its website. Dubai, one of seven
sheikhdoms along with Abu Dhabi that make up the United Arab
Emirates, is also home to the Dubai Financial Market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  