-- NCAA Basketball Tournament’s Point Spreads Shrink as Upsets Rise
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-03-20T04:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/ncaa-basketball-tournament-s-point-spreads-shrink-as-upsets-rise.html
As parity in men’s college
basketball increases, point spreads are decreasing in the
National Collegiate Athletic Association tournament.  Eleven years ago, Duke University was a No. 1 seed in the
tournament and routed Winthrop 84-37 in a first-round game in
which the Blue Devils were favored by 33 1/2 points. Last year,
as a No. 2 seed, Duke was eliminated in its opening game, losing
75-70 to 15th-seeded Lehigh as a 12-point favorite.  As this season’s NCAA men’s tournament prepares to tip off
its first full round of play, three teams are favored by more
than 20 points -- the biggest being top-ranked Gonzaga
University as a 22-point favorite against Southern University
tomorrow. Oddsmakers say tournaments with opening-game point
spreads surpassing 30 points may be over with talent dispersed
more evenly throughout the game.  “The days of those gigantic numbers are probably gone,”
Jay Rood, the sports book director at the  MGM Mirage (MGM)  in Las
Vegas, said in a telephone interview. “Not to say there won’t
be some wins by 30 or 40, but if we were to hang some of those
point spreads that we did in the late 90s and early 2000s, we’d
get nothing but underdog play -- the public wouldn’t be able to
pass up on those points.”  Gonzaga is one of four regional No. 1 seeds for the
tournament, which began last night with two games to gain a
seeded spot in the four 16-team regions.  Top Seeds  Fellow No. 1 seed Kansas is also favored by more than 20
points in its opening game, as is the University of Florida. A
third seed in the South Region, the Gators are listed by
oddsmakers as 20 1/2-point favorites against No. 14 Northwestern
State on March 22 in Austin,  Texas .  Kansas , which heads the South region, is also favored by 20
1/2 against Western  Kentucky  on March 22 in Kansas City.  Although betting lines have yet to be released for the
other two No. 1 regional seeds, the  University of Louisville  and
 Indiana  University may also be favored by more than 20 points in
their opening games. Louisville faces North Carolina AT&T
tomorrow in a Midwest regional game in Lexington, Kentucky.
Indiana, the No. 1 seed in the East, on March 22 will play the
winner of tonight’s game between Long Island University Brooklyn
and James Madison.  No. 1-seeded teams have a 112-0 record against 16th-seeded
teams since the NCAA tournament field expanded in 1985, so it’s
little surprise the top seeds have the widest point spreads.
However, the point spreads can’t rival the six times Duke was
favored by more than 33 points at the NCAA tournament from 1992
through 2004, including a record 46-point spread against  Florida 
A&M in 1999, according to Las Vegas-based handicapping
information website  Pregame.com . The Blue Devils won in a 99-58
rout, falling short of covering the spread.  Gap Closing  Because the talent gap between the top programs and the
teams from mid-major conferences isn’t as wide as it once was,
Las Vegas oddsmakers are similarly closing the point spreads.  “These lower-echelon teams are good teams, they come from
leagues that play good basketball, they amass a great record,
they know how to win,” Rood said. “I do think that we’re going
to see the 16 beat the 1 sooner or later and this very well
might be the year that happens.”  From 1985 through 2011, four teams seeded 15th knocked off
a No. 2 seed at the NCAA tournament. Last year, it happened
twice, with Lehigh beating Duke and Norfolk State ousting the
University of  Missouri .  In 2011, eighth-seeded Butler University tied a tournament
record as the lowest-ranked team to reach the national
championship game, while Virginia Commonwealth University made
the Final Four as an 11th seed.  Upset Wins  In the past three NCAA tournaments, game winners have been
seeded five or more places lower than the team they defeated 28
times. It’s the second-most times over a three-year span since
1985, according to the NCAA record book.  “The seed, especially these days, it’s just a number,”
said Turner Sports college basketball analyst Steve Kerr, who
reached the Final Four with the  University of Arizona  in 1988
before playing on five championship teams in the National
Basketball Association. “It’s kind of a meaningless thing, but
maybe they use it for motivation.”  Many of the most successful men’s programs in college
basketball have been weakened by players leaving as
underclassmen to enter the NBA, while some teams from smaller
conferences have benefited in recent years from having
experienced players who have been at the school for four years.  “They’re very seasoned, veteran players with great
leadership qualities,” said Rood. “You put one of those teams
up against a team that maybe has really young, talented players,
but maybe hasn’t faced the adversity that some of these other
teams have. This it the time of year when that really starts to
pay off for some of those teams.”  Norfolk State  No team has had a bigger tournament upset -- at least going
by point spreads -- than Norfolk State, which last year
eliminated Missouri as a 21 1/2-point underdog in its first NCAA
appearance. Southern has a chance to break that this year if it
becomes the first 16 seed to knock off a No. 1.  Murray State took Michigan State to overtime in 1990 before
losing by four points, one year after Princeton and East
Tennessee State lost by one point to No. 1 regional seeds
Georgetown and  Oklahoma , respectively. Western Carolina in 1996
lost to top-seeded Purdue by two points.  “I don’t really get caught up in seeding,” Western
Kentucky coach Ray Harper, whose team faces Kansas, said this
week in a radio interview. “We’re just happy we’re still
playing. I can assure you we won’t be scared.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  