-- New Big East Adds Butler, Creighton, Xavier; Fox TV Deal
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k   a n d   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-03-20T17:54:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/new-big-east-adds-butler-creighton-xavier-tv-deal-with-fox.html
Butler University ,  Creighton
University  and  Xavier University  joined the new  Big East 
Conference, filling out a 10-school league that also completed a
12-year television package to air games on Fox Sports’ emerging
network.  The conference, which includes the seven Catholic schools
from the old Big East, also agreed to play its season-ending
men’s basketball tournament at Madison Square Garden for the
next three years, the group said at a news conference in  New
York  to announce the broadcast deal with the  News Corp. (NWSA)  unit.  The new league begins play next season.  “We never intended to be an all-Catholic conference,”
said Brian Shanley, president at Providence College. “We don’t
take Butler because they’re the token non-Catholic school, but
because they’re ferocious on the basketball court. And there’s
no truth to the rumor that we took two Jesuit schools because
there’s a Jesuit pope.”  Shanley also said the conference would consider adding two
more schools after next year.  “Whether and how we get to 12 is negotiable between us and
our partners,” he said. “We’ve discussed, actively, a number
of schools that are really strong potential partners for us and
we also believe that the landscape in college sports has not
stopped morphing.”  New York?  The conference might move its headquarters or
commissioner’s office to New York, the No. 1 U.S. media market,
from Providence,  Rhode Island , as part of the restructuring,
Shanley said.  “We have to have a presence in New York,” he said.  Russell Reynolds Associates Inc. was picked to lead the
search for a conference commissioner, while former Big 12
Commissioner Dan Beebe was hired as a consultant.  Georgetown, St. John’s, Villanova,  Seton Hall , Providence,
Marquette and DePaul reached an exit agreement with the Big East
on March 8, taking the conference name and rights to play at the
Garden in Midtown Manhattan while leaving the league’s football
schools with money collected from recent exit and entry fees.  Those schools --  Connecticut , Cincinnati,  South Florida ,
East Carolina, Houston,  Memphis , Southern Methodist, Temple,
Tulane and  Central Florida  -- have yet to pick a name for their
conference, which probably also will include Navy in 2015.  ‘Acute Instability’  “We didn’t want to leave the Big East but we found
ourselves in a position where the instability was just so
acute,” said John DeGioia, Georgetown’s president. “These last
few years have demonstrated just how difficult it is for our
football partners to be able to hold together the framework that
enables them to compete at the highest possible levels.”  Butler, the sixth seed in the East region for the National
Collegiate Athletic Association tournament, and Xavier, which
wasn’t selected for the national championship bracket, are
leaving the Atlantic 10 Conference. Creighton, the seventh seed
in the Midwest, is moving from the Missouri Valley Conference.
Both Xavier, of Cincinnati, and Creighton, based in Omaha,
 Nebraska , are Jesuit schools.  Butler, the Indianapolis school that was runner-up in NCAA
tournaments in 2010 and 2011, meets Bucknell tomorrow at Rupp
Arena in Lexington,  Kentucky , in the first full round of the
NCAA men’s tournament, while Creighton plays Cincinnati at the
Wells Fargo Center in Philadelphia the following day.  Of the 10 schools in the conference, only Creighton and
Xavier have never made the Final Four.  The  former Big East  schools reached an agreement with  Walt
Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ESPN to continue their television relationship of
more than 30 years. The contract gives the sports network
exclusive worldwide distribution rights across all media and
will continue ESPN’s coverage of the conference’s football,
basketball and more sports through 2019-20.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net ;
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  