-- New Zealand Dollar Gains, Bonds Decline as Economy Accelerates
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 2013-03-21T06:23:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/new-zealand-dollar-rises-after-economy-grows-most-in-three-years.html
New Zealand ’s dollar rose against
all of its major peers after data showed the nation’s economy
grew at the fastest pace in three years last quarter.  The nation’s bonds fell for the first time in seven days 
on figures showing gross domestic product rose 1.5 percent
from the previous three-month period, exceeding the 0.9 percent
median estimate in a Bloomberg News poll. Demand for the so-
called kiwi and Aussie dollars was supported after Chinese
manufacturing accelerated. Australian Prime Minister  Julia
Gillard  retained leadership of the governing Labor party after
an uncontested ballot today.  “It looks like buoyant economic activity in New Zealand
will be sustained,” said  Mike Jones , a currency strategist at
 Bank of New Zealand  in Wellington. “That’s swayed some doubts
about the New Zealand economy and seen the  New Zealand dollar 
enjoy a pretty strong bounce.”  The kiwi rose 0.4 percent to 82.62 U.S. cents at 5:09 p.m.
in Sydney. The currency advanced 0.2 percent to 79.14 yen. The
Australian dollar traded at $1.0376 from $1.0379 yesterday. It
fell 0.3 percent to 99.39 yen from yesterday, when it rose 1
percent.  New Zealand’s GDP growth was almost twice as strong as the
Reserve Bank’s 0.8 percent forecast. The nation’s 10-year bond
yield climbed five basis points to 3.73 percent The two-year
swap rate, a fixed payment made to receive a floating rate, rose
five basis points to 2.94 percent. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  “The  Reserve Bank  may have to rethink their expectation
that they can hold off on rate hikes until next year,” Bank of
New Zealand’s Jones said.  Chinese Manufacturing  The preliminary reading for a Purchasing Managers’ Index
measuring Chinese manufacturing rose to 51.7 in March from 50.4
in February, according to a statement from HSBC Holdings Plc and
Markit today. Economists had predicted a 50.8 level and readings
above 50 indicates expansion. China is the biggest trading
partner for Australia and New Zealand.  The  Reserve Bank of Australia  sold A$26 million ($27
million) more of the nation’s dollars last month than it
purchased from the category of buyers that can include foreign
central banks, according to data from the central bank. That’s
down from A$43 million in net sales in January.  Deputy RBA Governor  Philip Lowe  said earlier this week a
stronger currency and higher savings rate have helped contain
inflation and allowed lower  interest rates  even as the mining
industry boomed.  “These factors have helped Australia to digest a huge
investment boom without generating substantial imbalances in the
economy,” he said on March 19 in Sydney.  Australian bonds maintained losses, with yields on three-
year notes rising eight basis points to 3.04 percent. The 10-
year yield climbed seven basis points to 3.58 percent.  Prime Minister Gillard retained leadership of the governing
Labor party after predecessor Kevin Rudd declined to challenge
in a ballot today. No rivals stood against either Gillard or
Deputy Prime minister and Treasurer Wayne Swan for their roles,
 Labor Party  official Chris Hayes told reporters in Canberra
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  