-- Nigeria’s Central Bank Governor Won’t Seek Second Term
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y   a n d   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 2013-03-20T14:52:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/nigeria-s-central-bank-governor-won-t-seek-second-term.html
Nigerian  central bank  Governor
Lamido Sanusi, who rescued the banking industry from near-
collapse four years ago, said he won’t renew his contract when
it expires in 2014.  Sanusi, who has led the bank of  Africa ’s biggest oil
producer since June 2009, said it was never his intention to
stay longer than one term. He was speaking in an interview with
CNBC Africa in Abuja, the capital.  Appointed in the midst of a debt crisis, Sanusi, 51, fired
the chief executives of eight lenders within four months of
taking office after an audit found evidence of mismanagement and
reckless lending. He’s pushed for stability in the currency and
helped bring inflation down below 10 percent, while at the same
time antagonizing lawmakers by criticizing their spending and
courting controversy for his outspoken views, most recently on
 China ’s role in Africa.  “That quality of character, that boldness is a quality
that will be difficult to find amongst policy makers in
 Nigeria ,” Bismarck Rewane chief executive officer of Financial
Derivatives Co., a Lagos-based business adviser, said by phone
today.  Sanusi led the Monetary Policy Committee in increasing the
benchmark interest rate by six percentage points to a  record 12
percent  from September 2010 to October 2011 to bolster the
currency and curb inflation.  Bond Yields  The government should name his replacement soon to help
ease investors’ concerns and manage the transition, said  Samir Gadio , an emerging-markets strategist at Standard Bank Group
Ltd. In 2009, former President Umaru Yar’Adua didn’t name Sanusi
as a replacement to Chukwuma Soludo until two days before his
term ended.  The naira fell 0.2 percent to 158.95 per dollar by 3:32
p.m. in Lagos, taking its decline this year to 1.8 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Yields on Nigeria’s
$500 million of Eurobonds due January 2022 fell 10 basis points,
or 0.1 percentage point, to 4.23 percent.  “He has a strong personality and a lot of people invested
in the country just because of the personal relationship and the
trust in Sanusi, and the confidence that Sanusi inspires,”
Gadio said by phone from Lagos, the commercial capital  Policy makers kept the  interest rate  on hold yesterday even
as they face rising calls from businesses and the  finance
ministry  to lower borrowing costs to spur investment. Sanusi
told reporters in Abuja yesterday a rate cut “could send wrong
signals of a premature termination of an appropriately tight
monetary policy stance.”  Borrowing Costs  Finance Minister Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala said in July record
interest rates that pushed up commercial bank rates to about 20
percent were making it difficult for businesses to borrow.  Sanusi hasn’t shied away from controversy. In December
2010, lawmakers demanded Sanusi apologize for saying a quarter
of the government’s spending on overheads went to parliament and
that was damaging for the economy. He refused, saying his
estimates were correct.  Last year lawmakers attempted to curtail the bank’s powers
by proposing an amendment to the  Central Bank of Nigeria  Act
that would strip Sanusi of his position as chairman of the
bank’s board. They also pushed to include more external members
on the board and have parliament approve the bank’s budget.  China’s Role  More recently, he criticized China’s role in Africa, saying
it’s contributing to “deindustrialization and
underdevelopment” in the world’s poorest continent. Africa must
shake off its “romantic view of China” and see it as a
competitor that’s “capable of the same forms of exploitation as
the west,” Sanusi wrote in the London-based Financial Times on
March 11.  The Chinese government said it was concerned and
dissatisfied with the comments, Xinhua reported on March 14,
citing Hua Chunying, spokeswoman for the Foreign Ministry.  Sanusi was chief risk officer at  United Bank  of Africa Plc
and First Bank of Nigeria Plc before becoming chief executive
officer at FBN in January 2009. A grandson of the 11th Emir of
Kano, Sanusi studied economics at the Ahmadu Bello University in
the northern state of Zaria and Islamic law at the International
University of Africa in the Sudanese capital, Khartoum.  “The next governor will probably have a different outlook
or perspective,” Yvonne Mhango, an economist at  Renaissance
Capital , said in a phone interview from Johannesburg today. “He
came into office there was a banking crisis, the currency was
depreciating and he had mid-teen inflation. He’s turned that all
around.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net ;
Maram Mazen in Abuja at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  