-- Norovirus Spurs 1 Million Doctor Visits by U.S. Children
-- B y   S h a n n o n   P e t t y p i e c e
-- 2013-03-21T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/norovirus-spurs-1-million-doctor-visits-by-u-s-children.html
Norovirus, the most common cause of
vomiting in young children, leads to more than 1 million medical
visits costing $273 million each year in the U.S., according to
a study that highlights the need for a vaccine to prevent it.  By the time children are 5 years old, 1 in 278 in the U.S.
will have been hospitalized for the vomiting and diarrhea bug,
and 1 in 6 will be treated by a doctor or nurse for it,
according to a report released yesterday by the  New England
Journal of Medicine .  The figures are surprisingly high, said Daniel Payne, lead
author of the study and a researcher at the U.S. Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention. The virus, sometimes called the
stomach flu, easily spreads through food, water and close
contact when microscopic amounts of fecal matter are ingested.
Since a vaccine that could help stop the spread is likely years
away, hand washing is the best defense, said Payne.  “This study very strongly suggests that person-to-person
transmission of norovirus is a very big deal,” Payne said.
“This is a significant health-care burden among U.S. children
under five.”  Since the introduction of vaccines from  Merck & Co. (MRK)  in 2006
and  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  in 2008 that prevent rotavirus, another
gastrointestinal germ, norovirus has become the leading cause of
stomach illness among children younger than 5. There were about
twice as many cases of norovirus than rotavirus detected in the
study, researchers found. This is one of the only large-scale
studies to look at the prevalence of norovirus in young children
because doctors don’t typically test for it, Payne said.  Developing Vaccine  Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. (4502)  is the furthest along in
developing a norovirus vaccine, Payne said. The  Osaka , Japan-
based company acquired the experimental medicine through its
purchase of LigoCyte Pharmaceuticals Inc. in 2012.  More than 600,000 American children younger than 5 visit
their doctor each year because of the virus, about 281,000 go to
the emergency room and 14,000 are hospitalized, the study found.
The average cost for hospitalization is about $4,000. Medical
visits for norovirus infections now total $273 million a year in
the U.S., researchers said.  The virus causes severe dehydration from vomiting and
diarrhea, particularly in infants and the elderly, which can be
deadly if not treated.  In the study, researchers looked at fecal samples from
1,295 children at medical centers in  New York ,  Tennessee , and
 Ohio  who had symptoms of gastroenteritis over two years and 493
healthy children in a control group. Norovirus was detected in
21 percent of the children with gastroenteritis symptoms.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shannon Pettypiece in New York at 
 spettypiece@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  