-- Norwegian Air CEO Plans Follow-On Order for Stricken Boeing 787
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-03-20T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/norwegian-air-ceo-plans-follow-on-order-for-stricken-boeing-787.html
Norwegian Air Shuttle AS (NAS)  Chief
Executive Officer Bjoern Kjos said he’s looking to buy more
 Boeing Co. (BA)  787s to add long-haul routes even as the company’s
first Dreamliners remain on hold after the model was grounded.  Europe ’s fourth-biggest discount carrier is starting to map
out its needs beyond the eight 787-8s due by 2015, and may order
the larger 787-9 as early as this year because the plane’s per-
seat costs make it attractive, Kjos said.  Norwegian Air is among airlines affected by the idling of
the global Dreamliner fleet on Jan. 16 in the wake of incidents
with lithium-ion batteries. While Boeing has proposed a fix, it
hasn’t given new delivery dates for planes the Oslo-based
company should get from April, Kjos said in an interview.  “There’ll be a delay that hits us on the first two
aircraft,” Kjos said. Norwegian Air has leased two Airbus SAS
A340s to provide cover, one for two months, the other for three,
during which time the 787s should arrive, he said.  Norwegian Air is scheduled to introduce three 787s this
year, four next and the eighth in 2015, with five leased and
three bought outright. The size of a follow-on order has yet to
be determined, though the planes will be purchased directly and
the company may seek discounts as part of delay compensation.  Leisure Market  Kjos, who spoke in London, said the largest Dreamliner, the
787-10, is economically attractive but doesn’t offer sufficient
range. Airbus SAS’s competing A350 has been ruled out because of
the commitment to the Boeing jet, which was available first, he
said.  In coming months, Norwegian plans to announce the next
routes on which the 787 will be deployed, following on from  New
York , Bangkok and  Fort Lauderdale ,  Florida . Tickets have just
gone on sale to the latter, with flights slated to begin in
November, aided by cooperation with ship operators that use it
as a base for Caribbean cruises.  Norwegian Air’s longer-term planning for the 787 will focus
on destinations in  Asia  as it seeks to tap demand for affordable
log-haul flights among the emerging middle class, Kjos said.  The carrier may press some of the single single-aisle jets
it has on order into long-haul service, with the Boeing 737 Max
that it’s due to take from 2017 offering sufficient range to
connect Oslo with  Pakistan . Norwegian last year placed an order
for 100 of the re-engined Max planes, together with 100 Airbus
A320neos. It now operates a fleet of 74 aircraft.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in  London  at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  