-- Notre Dame Leads in Undergraduate Business School Ranking
-- B y   G e o f f   G l o e c k l e r
-- 2013-03-20T16:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/notre-dame-leads-in-undergraduate-business-school-ranking.html
Notre Dame ’s  Mendoza College of
Business  holds the top spot in Bloomberg Businessweek’s ranking
of  undergraduate business schools  for a fourth year, as students
lauded its curriculum, liberal arts bent and focus on ethics.  Mendoza ranked first in student satisfaction and fifth in
employer satisfaction -- the two main criteria, according to the
report. The school in  South Bend ,  Indiana , was followed by the
 University of Virginia ’s McIntire School of Commerce in second
place and Cornell University’s Dyson School of Applied Economics
and Management in third.  “Academically, Mendoza is not all that different from
other upper-tier business schools,” said Rob Nelson, a senior
business student at Notre Dame. “Our Catholic tradition puts
extra emphasis on ethics and the idea that business should be
used to generate more than just profits.”  A notable absence near the top is the  Sloan School of
Management  at the  Massachusetts Institute of Technology . The
drop to 19th place from sixth marks the first time Sloan has
been outside of the top 10 since the ranking started in 2006.
The reason is mostly because of the employer survey, where Sloan
ranks 80th. Seventeen of the surveyed employers mentioned having
a recruiting relationship with MIT, while the average for all
ranked schools was 18.  Sloan is at a disadvantage in the employer rank because of
its size. At the University of  Texas , 4,093 business students in
the  McCombs School  of Business account for about 10 percent of
all undergraduates. Sloan has 123 business majors, the fewest of
any school in the ranking, or just more than 2 percent of the
undergraduate student body.  ‘Critical Mass’  “It’s an issue of critical mass,” said Melanie Parker,
executive director of the Career Development Center at
Cambridge, Massachusetts-based MIT. “Without that critical
mass, some of the companies that would recruit a large bulk of
management students aren’t going to think about coming here.”  At McIntire, based in Charlottesville,  Virginia , job
prospects kept the school near the top of the rankings for a
fourth year. Nine out of 10 members of the Class of 2013 had at
least one business internship, and 97 percent of students from
last year’s graduating class had a job three months after
graduation.  Top employers of McIntire students include  Ernst & Young
LLP , PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, and  KPMG LLP . Dyson, based in
Ithaca,  New York , held third place based on student satisfaction
and the survey’s MBA feeder measure, which shows how many
graduates ultimately enroll in top-ranked MBA programs.  Olin Climbs  Washington University ’s  Olin Business School  jumped four
spots to fourth because of student satisfaction. Olin boasts the
highest average SAT scores -- 1,492 -- of any school in the
ranking and received top marks from students in both teaching
and academic services.  Olin bumped the  University of Pennsylvania ’s Wharton School
one spot to fifth. Wharton is tied with Sloan and Carnegie
Mellon University’s Tepper School of Business for the highest
median starting salary after graduation, at $70,000.  McCombs, at the  University of Texas  at Austin, re-entered
the top 10 for the first time since 2006, climbing eight spots
to ninth place, on employer satisfaction.  The survey results also showed an increase in the median
starting salary for graduates, which averaged $50,650. That’s up
4 percent from a year earlier.  Ranking Methodology  To rank the programs,  Bloomberg Businessweek  used nine data
points, including a survey of senior business majors that
measured their satisfaction in teaching, academic services and
career support, and a survey of employers to gauge which schools
produce the highest-quality graduates.  Other measures included MBA feeder schools, starting
salaries and academic quality, which combines SAT scores,
student-faculty ratios, class size, students with internships
and time devoted to class work.  This year, 145 undergraduate business programs
participated, though 21 were eliminated because of insufficient
response rates. Two schools that typically rank high --
 Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute , in Troy, New York, and the
 University of Maryland , in  College Park  -- failed to meet the
minimum rate this year. A total of 27,561 students and 218
employers responded to the surveys.  Ohio State University ’s Fisher College of Business moved up
the most, by 34 spots to 34th place. Because Fisher is so big --
more than 2,000 business students graduate annually -- employers
have a large pool of potential hires to choose from.  500 Companies  The university’s on-campus recruiting program attracts 500
companies to campus throughout the academic year and two job
fairs specifically for Fisher students attract an additional 150
each, according to Jeff Rice, executive director of the Office
of Career Management at Fisher, based in Columbus,  Ohio .  On March 19, Fisher’s National Center for the Middle Market
and General Electric Co.’s GE Capital unit teamed up to offer
the second-annual middle market career fair. The fair, targeted
at students looking for jobs and internships at a middle market
firm, attracted companies like Quikrete Co. and Stanley Electric
U.S. Co.  Loyola Marymount University’s College of Business
Administration, in  Los Angeles , jumped 28 spots to 65th overall
-- mostly because of its improved student-faculty ratio and SAT
scores.  Among schools that dropped the most was Case Western
Reserve University’s  Weatherhead School of Management , which
fell 33 spots. Students gave Weatherhead low grades in
facilities and services, as well as job placement, and some
complained about a lack of regional diversity among the
companies recruiting on campus.  To address some of the concerns, Weatherhead is taking
steps to broaden employment opportunities for students, said Jim
Hurley, assistant dean. To get students exposure to companies
outside of Ohio, the university joined a group of schools that
participated in career fairs on the east and west coasts in
January. Among companies that attended were Liberty Mutual Group
Inc., UBS AG and  NBC Universal .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Geoff Gloeckler at 
 ggloeckler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Louis Lavelle at 
 llavelle@bloomberg.net  