-- Obama Says Israel Has Right to Guard Against Iran Threat
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2013-03-20T19:16:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/obama-says-israel-has-right-to-guard-against-iran-threat.html
President  Barack Obama  said the
U.S. will do whatever is necessary to keep Iran from gaining a
nuclear weapon and echoed Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu ’s declaration that Israel has the right to “defend
itself, by itself.”  Iran’s nuclear program  and the turmoil in Syria were two
main topics for Obama and Netanyahu as they met today in
Jerusalem. Obama said the U.S. was investigating claims that a
chemical weapon was used in Syria and that such a development
would be a “game-changer” if it was verified.  Netanyahu, speaking at a news conference with Obama,
thanked the U.S. leader for mobilizing international support for
diplomatic and economic pressure on Iran, adding that those
measures must be backed up by a credible threat of military
force. Iran presents an existential threat, he said, and
“ Israel  can never cede the right to defend ourselves.”  Obama said there “is not a lot of daylight” between the
U.S. and Israel on Iran. He said he understood that Israel has
unique security considerations.  The U.S. prefers to resolve the dispute with Iran through
diplomatic channels, “and there is still time to do so,” Obama
said. “The question is will Iranian leadership seize that
opportunity.”  On Syria, Obama said he is “deeply skeptical” of claims
by Bashar al-Assad’s regime that opposition forces used a
chemical weapon in the conflict. The U.S. intends to
“investigate thoroughly” what happened.  Syria’s ambassador to the  United Nations , Bashar Jaafari,
accused “terrorist groups” of firing a rocket laden with
chemicals, whose “thick smoke” killed 25 people and injured
110 in the Khan al-Assal area in Aleppo province.  “We know the Syrian government has the capacity to carry
out chemical weapons attacks,” Obama said. “Once we establish
the facts, I have made clear that the use of chemical weapons is
a game-changer.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Talev in Jerusalem at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net ;
 Julianna Goldman  in Jerusalem at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  