-- Obama Says Israel Has Right to Defend Against Iran Threat
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2013-03-20T22:01:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/obama-says-israel-has-right-to-defend-against-iran-threat.html
President  Barack Obama  said the
U.S. will do whatever is necessary to prevent Iran from gaining
a nuclear weapon and echoed Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu ’s
declaration that Israel has the right to “defend itself, by
itself.”  Iran’s nuclear program  and the turmoil in  Syria  were two of
the main topics after the two leaders met for several hours at
the prime minister’s residence. The U.S. is investigating claims
that a chemical weapon had been used in Syria and that it would
be a “game changer” if that was verified, Obama said at a
press conference alongside Netanyahu in  Jerusalem .  Netanyahu said he was “absolutely convinced” of Obama’s
resolve in preventing Iran from building a nuclear bomb, adding
that diplomatic and economic pressure must be backed up by a
“clear and credible threat of military action.”  “Each country has to make its own decisions when it comes
to the awesome decision to engage in any kind of military
action,” Obama said. “ Israel  is differently situated than the
 United States , and I would not expect the prime minister to make
a decision about his country’s security and defer that to any
other country.”  Obama arrived in  Tel Aviv  today for his first visit to
Israel as president and the first foreign trip of his second
term. By visiting Israel, the U.S. president was seeking to
reassure Israelis about his commitment to their country’s
security following tension with Netanyahu over Jewish
settlements, the peace process and dealing with Iran.  Military Aid  Obama and Netanyahu, who were meeting for the 10th time in
the past four years, focused on areas of agreement regarding
Iran and the peace process and highlighted the U.S. commitment
to continuing military aid to Israel amid cuts to the U.S.
budget.  The two leaders said they were in accord on the timeline
for  Iran ’s progress toward being able to build a nuclear weapon.
Netanyahu said he shared the U.S. view that it would take about
a year for Iran to build a nuclear bomb. Obama said there “is
not a lot of daylight” between the U.S. and Israel.  Common Assessment  “We do have a common assessment on the schedules,”
Netanyahu said. Israel is concerned that Iran may reach a point
with enrichment that it enters “an immunity zone” after which
stopping the Islamic republic from building a weapon would be
much more difficult and require military action, he said.  Netanyahu thanked the U.S. leader for mobilizing
international support for diplomatic and economic pressure on
Iran, adding that those measures must be backed up by a credible
threat of military force. Iran presents an existential threat,
he said, and “Israel can never cede the right to defend
ourselves.”  He said he appreciated Obama’s repeated warnings to Iran of
military action and his statements of support for Israel’s right
and capability to defend itself. Netanyahu said Obama has
reaffirmed that right more than any other president.  “We prefer to resolve this diplomatically, and there is
still time to do so,” Obama said. “The question is will
Iranian leadership seize that opportunity.”  ‘Deeply Skeptical’  On Syria, Obama said he is “deeply skeptical” of claims
by Bashar al-Assad’s regime that opposition forces used a
chemical weapon. The U.S. intends to “investigate thoroughly”
what happened.  Syria’s ambassador to the  United Nations , Bashar Jaafari,
accused “terrorist groups” of firing a rocket laden with
chemicals, whose “thick smoke” killed 25 people and injured
110 in the Khan al-Assal area in Aleppo province.  “We have to make sure we know exactly what happened, what
was the nature of the incident, what can we document, what can
we prove?” Obama said. “Once we establish the facts, I have
made clear that the use of chemical weapons is a game changer.”  He and Netanyahu expressed concern that Syria’s chemical
weapons might fall into the hands of terrorist groups.  The other major topic they discussed was stalled peace
talks between Israel and the Palestinians. While Obama’s four-
day agenda in the  Middle East  doesn’t include specific goals for
reviving negotiations, Obama is also scheduled to meet with
Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas tomorrow and
Jordan’s King Abdullah II on March 22.  Obama’s Goal  Obama said his goal was to spend time listening to regional
leaders. That way, he’d have a better understanding of the
constraints and interests of the various parties and how the
U.S. could play a constructive role in restarting negotiations.  “Ultimately this is a really hard problem that has been
lingering for over six decades,” Obama said.  To reinforce Obama’s commitment to Israel, symbolic
gestures planned during his visit may be as important as the
discussions he’s having. He will view the ancient Dead Sea
Scrolls at the Israel Museum; visit Yad Vashem, Israel’s
Holocaust memorial; and lay wreaths at the graves of Theodor Herzl, the founder of modern political Zionism, and former Prime
Minister  Yitzhak Rabin .  At the arrival ceremony in Tel Aviv, Obama, Netanyahu and
Israeli President  Shimon Peres  were all dressed in dark suits
and wore blue ties with their white dress shirts, mirroring the
colors of the Israeli flag. Together they observed a U.S.-funded
Iron Dome missile-defense battery that was brought to Ben Gurion
Airport to highlight the U.S.-Israel security partnership.  Tree Planting  Later in the day, Obama planted in Peres’s garden a
magnolia tree brought from the U.S. to signify the strong roots
of the relationship between the U.S and Israel, administration
officials said.  The centerpiece of Obama’s time in Israel will be a speech
he is set to deliver tomorrow, primarily to young Israelis, at
the Jerusalem International Convention Center. With Obama at the
start of his second term and Netanyahu having just formed a new
government, the U.S. president has an opportunity to reintroduce
himself and ease lingering doubts -- that extend also to some
American Jews -- about his commitment to Israel.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Margaret Talev  in Jerusalem at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net ;
 Julianna Goldman  in Jerusalem at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  