-- Obama’s NCAA Bracket: Hope but No Change
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M a h l e r
-- 2013-03-20T20:27:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/obama-s-ncaa-bracket-hope-but-no-change.html
Like the presidential pardon of the
Thanksgiving turkey or baseball’s ceremonial first pitch,  the
First Bracket  is now a  Washington  institution. So it was
inevitable that it would become politicized.  This year the criticism started even before President
 Barack Obama  announced his picks for the men’s college
basketball tournament: Congress is still waiting for the
president to deliver his budget,  Republicans said , yet he has
the time not only to handicap 68 National Collegiate Athletic
Association teams, but also to tape  a segment with ESPN  breaking
down his selections?  If the act of filling out a bracket is inherently
political, it’s nothing compared with the completed bracket
itself. Our brackets are ourselves. They are less a quiz of
basketball knowledge -- no matter how much college hoops you
watched this year, you are guaranteed to lose your office pool
to someone who thinks a “ Diaper Dandy ” is a maternity gift --
than a fill-in-the-blank Rorschach test.  Are you an idealist, the sort who bets big on your alma
mater or your hometown team? Or a nostalgist, doubling down on a
resurgent powerhouse from your youth? (I’m looking at you, La
Salle.) Or maybe you’re a big-risk, big-reward guy, the type who
looks at Southern University (16) versus Gonzaga (1) and thinks,
no-brainer.  Historically , Obama has done none of these things. He has
filled out his bracket a lot like he has governed:
dispassionately, and with a clear aversion to risk.  Bracket History  Obama’s first public bracket, released during the 2008
campaign, was a model of caution. (Not unlike his vice
presidential pick a few months later.) It included not a single
12th-seed upset of a fifth seed. His Final Four were UCLA,
 Kansas ,  North Carolina  and Pittsburgh: three No. 1s and one No.
4. That was not Change You Can Believe In. It was a statement of
support for the status quo.  The trend continued through Obama’s first term. In 2010 --
after opting not to offer a second stimulus package, dropping
the idea of a government-run health-insurance plan and deciding
to keep the Guantanamo Bay prison open after all -- the
president picked the country’s top two teams, Kansas and
 Kentucky , to square off in the championship. The following year,
his Final Four consisted of all No. 1 seeds.  Obama’s brackets might be so bland in part because he’s
really more of a professional sports fan. President  Bill Clinton , an Arkansas native, had his Razorbacks. But Obama --
who grew up in  Hawaii , attended college in  California  and  New
York , and spent most of his adult life in  Chicago  -- doesn’t
seem to have any strong college-sports allegiances. (For what
it’s worth, the University of Hawaii’s Rainbow Warriors haven’t
made the NCAA tournament since 2002.)  Ultimately, Obama’s NCAA brackets reveal a pragmatist. A
couple of years ago, the president’s Elite Eight featured only
one surprise -- the favorite of Washington’s Elite, Georgetown.
In the midst of last year’s re-election campaign, as political
pundits never tired of  pointing out , three of Obama’s Final Four
picks were from swing states.  Obama’s prudence has served him well as a politician. It
has been less successful as a bracket strategy: He hasn’t picked
a winner since North Carolina in 2009.  So going into this year’s tournament, with his last
presidential campaign behind him, there was hope that Obama
would free his inner Barack-etologist. Forget those tiresome
debates about whether Obama will use his second term to push
hard for immigration reform or to strike a “ grand bargain ” on
the  federal budget . We might finally get to know the answers to
more important questions, such as what the president really
thinks about Duke.  Bracket Hopes  Now that Obama has made his bracket public, we know those
hopes were misplaced, even misguided. After all, he’s still a
politician, and he has the congressional midterms -- not to
mention his legacy -- to worry about. What’s more, he’s still
Obama.  “I’m going with Louisville,” he said on ESPN, referring to
one of the two teams -- both No. 1 seeds -- that he picked for
the championship game. “I know it’s not a surprise pick.” (NCAA
bashers might at least take some pleasure in his tacit
endorsement of Louisville coach  Rick Pitino .)  One of Obama’s alma maters -- 14th-seeded Harvard, where he
went to law school -- plays the University of  New Mexico , a No.
3 seed, in the first round. Here was a chance for him to follow
his heart, as well as demonstrate that he’s not afraid to gamble
on an underdog. Of course, the downside is that he would risk
being seen as an elitist. Obama took New Mexico.  Then there’s the great Duke dilemma. For the prudent
politician, no college basketball program is more vexing. It is
both America’s team and the team America loves to hate. (If you
really want to go deep into the weeds here, two political
scientists have  gone so far  as to equate anti-Dukism with anti-
Americanism.) For Obama, Duke has been especially troublesome,
from both a basketball and a  political  perspective. This year
Obama played it down the middle, choosing the second-seeded Blue
Devils to advance to the Elite Eight before falling to
Louisville.  Obama has  Indiana  as this year’s champion, which makes
perfect sense. Nate Silver, as usual, has  done the math  and says
the Hoosiers have a very good shot at winning the tournament.
And it certainly doesn’t hurt for a president who has promised
to make the U.S. a magnet for manufacturing jobs to throw
himself behind a rust-belt state with  8.6 percent unemployment .  All of which is to say: If this year’s First Bracket is an
indication of how much risk Obama is prepared to take in his
second term, no one should expect peace in the  Middle East  any
time soon.  (Jonathan Mahler is a sports columnist for Bloomberg View.
He is the author of the best-selling “Ladies and Gentlemen, the
Bronx Is Burning” and “Death Comes to Happy Valley.” The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Mahler at  jmahler11@bloomberg.net  or  @jonathanmahler  on
Twitter.  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 