-- Lojas Americanas Website Erodes Results: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n a   S c i a u d o n e
-- 2013-03-20T03:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/lojas-americanas-website-erodes-results-corporate-brazil.html
Lojas Americanas SA (LAME4)  is betting 1
billion reais ($505 million) that analysts who recommend selling
its online unit, B2W Cia. Global do Varejo, are wrong.  The investment by Brazil’s  third-biggest retailer  will help
B2W build 10 distribution centers nationwide after logistics
problems and delivery delays triggered customer complaints and
made it 2011’s worst performer among stocks on the benchmark
 Bovespa (IBOV)  index. Americanas, which bought control of B2W in 2006
and boosted its stake last year to 63 percent, is doubling down
on a bet that online shoppers will fuel growth as  internet sales 
grow faster than traditional retail sales.  Investors agree with Americanas: B2W, which has more sell
ratings than any other retailer on  Brazil ’s main stock index, is
now posting the  Bovespa’s best  12-month gain at  71 percent .
That’s more than twice Rio de Janeiro-based Americanas’ 31
percent rise and three times the 23 percent increase posted by
analysts’ top-rated retailer, Cia. Brasileira de Distribuicao
Grupo  Pao de Acucar .  “The worst has passed for B2W,” said Sandra Peres at
brokerage Coinvalores, one of only two analysts who rate the
stock a buy. “With this capital injection, we have to believe
the company will build something better.”  Nine analysts rate the stock a sell and seven say hold.  Sales Surprise  B2W, Brazil’s largest online retailer and operator of the
Blockbuster and Americanas.com websites locally, reported
 quarterly sales  that topped analysts’ estimates after opening
four distribution centers in  Sao Paulo , Rio de Janeiro,
Pernambuco and Minas Gerais states. Previously, Rio-based B2W
used a single distribution center in Sao Paulo, causing
bottlenecks as well as late and missed deliveries during the
2010 and 2011 holiday seasons.  Sales in the fourth quarter rose 35 percent to 1.59 billion
reais, topping the average 1.39 billion-real estimate from 10
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. That was the best positive sales
surprise among the six retailers included in the Bovespa.  “If B2W can really improve its results like it did in the
fourth quarter, its performance could be much better than in
previous years,” Peres said by telephone from Sao Paulo. “In
2013, we will start to see better results because of the
strategies being implemented.”  Holiday Stockpiles  In addition to expanding its distribution network, B2W also
amassed the world’s second-largest stockpile among retailers
ahead of the holiday season last year. The company had $354.5
million of goods in inventory in the fourth quarter, the most of
161 Internet-only retailers after Amazon.com Inc., according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  A press official for both Americanas and B2W declined to
comment.  “The company is fully engaged in continually transforming
its processes and investing in the necessary infrastructure to
expand its competitive edge so as to capture the endless
opportunities of growth for electronic commerce in the coming
years,” Fabio da Silva Abrate, investor relations director at
B2W, said on a call with analysts on March 8.  Stronger sales were driven by promotions and extended
repayment terms and so far haven’t translated into improved
earnings, according to Julia Monteiro, an analyst at CGD
Securities.  ‘Losses, Losses’  “Because the company has operational bottlenecks and is
still delivering goods over longer periods of time, it has to
offer other incentives,” Monteiro said by telephone from  Rio de
Janeiro . “The company has only been presenting losses, losses,
losses.”  B2W posted the biggest slide in earnings last year among
Brazilian peers. For every $10 in  profit  Lojas Americanas
generated from $100 in revenue, B2W shaved about $4 off the
bottom line, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. B2W said
this month that its net loss almost doubled to 170.7 million
reais ($86 million) in 2012, while Lojas Americanas profit rose
20 percent to 410.2 million reais. Americanas sells clothing,
appliances, electronics and household items.  Americanas’ “strong top-line growth” was supported by its
brick-and-mortar stores, Bradesco BBI SA analysts led by Ricardo Boiati wrote in a note on March 15. The outlook for B2W remains
“uncertain considering the still-tough competitive environment
and cash flow outlook,” the analysts said.  B2W is benefiting from optimism about growing online sales
as more Brazilians gain access to computers and retailers
convince shoppers it’s safe to buy over the internet. Online
sales in Brazil, the world’s second-largest emerging economy,
rose at five times the pace of traditional sales in the first
half of 2012, the latest figures available, according to data
compiled by E-bit, a Brazilian researcher.  “It’s an interesting channel because you don’t need
stores, physical space or as many employees -- the cost is much
lower than selling the product in the store,” Thiago Gramari,
an analyst at  Banco do Brasil SA (BBAS3) , said in a phone interview.
“It’s in Lojas Americanas’ interest to make B2W a success.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christiana Sciaudone in Sao Paulo at 
 csciaudone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net  