-- Olam Shares Top Level Last Reached Before Block Attack
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   Y u n
-- 2013-03-20T09:30:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/olam-shares-top-level-last-reached-before-carson-block-attacked.html
Olam International Ltd. (OLAM) , the
commodity trader targeted by short-seller  Carson Block , topped
the price it last traded at before the founder of Muddy Waters
LLC said he was betting against the company.  The stock rose as much as 2.6 percent to S$1.765 in
intraday trading in Singapore, before closing at S$1.715. Shares
of Olam, which rejected Block’s claims and sued for defamation,
closed at S$1.74 on Nov. 19 before Block questioned the
company’s accounts at a London conference.  The rebound shows returning confidence among  investors 
after the shares slumped 20 percent following Block’s
allegations in November. Olam, whose largest shareholder is
Singapore’s state investment firm Temasek Holdings Pte, will in
April present the results of a review of its businesses.  “People could be anticipating the strategy recalibration,
which they may be thinking is positive for the stock,” James
Koh, an analyst at Maybank Kim Eng Holdings in  Singapore , said
by phone on March 18. “The direction seems to be heading toward
slowing down investments.”  Olam, based in Singapore, fell to as low as S$1.395 on Dec.
17, the lowest since March 25, 2009. The stock was the  second-
worst performer  on Singapore’s Straits Times index in 2012 with
a 27 percent slump, trailing only Wilmar International Ltd. Five
analysts advise selling Olam, 6 recommend holding it and 8 rate
it buy, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Block’s research firm Muddy Waters followed his initial
allegations with a Nov. 27 report likening Olam to failed energy
trader Enron Corp., questioning its acquisitions and accounting,
and rating the stock a strong sell. Olam, which in February
reported its highest quarterly  profit  since 2010, has said the
short-seller’s claims are baseless and were intended to panic
shareholders and benefit Block’s short positions.  Olam, also one of the world’s top six cotton traders, said
in February it will review its business priorities, spending
plans, and cash flow generation targets. It does this every
year, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Yun in Hong Kong at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  