-- Hollande Wins Confidence Vote as Minister Exit Adds Pressure
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2013-03-20T19:55:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/hollande-woes-intensify-with-cahuzac-exit-before-confidence-vote.html
French President  Francois Hollande ’s government won its first confidence vote even as the
resignation of Budget Minister Jerome Cahuzac increased the
political challenge of revamping  Europe ’s No. 2 economy.  The no-confidence motion against the government’s handling
of the economy by the opposition Union for a  Popular Movement 
was defeated with only 229 of 540 lawmakers voting in favor. The
vote came as Cahuzac, 60, became the first minister to step down
since Hollande won power in May, exiting amid an investigation
into whether he had an undeclared Swiss bank account.  The opposition’s questioning of government policies and the
departure of Cahuzac under a cloud underline the challenges
faced by Hollande as he grapples with a  stalled economy ,
unemployment at a 13-year high and European Union pressure to
cut  France ’s  budget deficit . Hollande’s approval rating fell 8
points in the past month and is at a record low for a president
10 months into his mandate, a BVA poll showed this week.  “There’s been bad news on unemployment, the deficit and
growth,” said  Celine Bracq , a pollster at BVA. “As long as
there is no sign of evidence that his actions are working, his
popularity can continue to drop.”  Cahuzac’s exit is a particular blow for Hollande because
the minister was in charge of pushing through 5 billion euros
($6.5 billion) in spending cuts by the end of the month to
appease the European Commission after the government said it
would miss its deficit-reduction target this year.  “This poses a problem in that the timing is not good,”
said  Emmanuel Rivier , a pollster at TNS Sofres in Paris. “In
the government’s favor, they have moved quickly with this
resignation to protect their program.”  French Credibility  Cahuzac, who maintains his innocence, had been also
responsible for clamping down on  tax evasion .  Hollande’s ministers rallied to assure voters that the
government won’t be driven off course in cost reductions.  “We remain in a phase of budget seriousness,” Industry
Minister  Arnaud Montebourg  said on France Inter radio.  Bernard Cazeneuve, who will replace Cahuzac at the budget
ministry, said the cuts are necessary for France’s credibility.  “We have to reduce public spending, that’s the line of the
government,” he said on Europe 1 radio.  Hollande “expressed his confidence” at a cabinet meeting
today that Cazeneuve will “continue the serious work carried
out” by Cahuzac, government spokeswoman Najat Vallaud-Belkacem
told journalists today.  Defending Record  The problem for Hollande is how to revive an economy
ravaged by Europe’s  debt crisis  and a policy malaise symbolized
by more than three decades of budget deficits.  With public debt above 90 percent of gross domestic product
and rising, the economy is set for a second year of little or no
growth, according to both the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development and the European Commission.  The OECD said yesterday that unemployment will peak at
about 11.2 percent next year after rising to 10.6 percent in the
fourth quarter of 2012. The lack of economic expansion means the
 budget deficit  is on track to be about 3.5 percent of GDP this
year instead of the 3 percent that France had promised its
European partners it would achieve.  Growing Unpopularity  About 35 percent of French voters approve of Hollande’s
performance, down from 43 percent in February and 61 percent at
the beginning of his mandate last May,  according to BVA .  The poll is based on interviews with 1,139 adults March 14
and 15 and has a margin of error of about 2.5 percentage points.  UMP leader Jean-Francois Cope today charged Hollande and
his prime minister, Jean-Marc Ayrault, with saddling the French
economy with too many tax increases and choking off growth.  “You’ve made the irresponsible choice of imposing a fiscal
shock,” Cope said today as he introduced the confidence motion.
“You’ve strangled the French. They don’t spend, they don’t
invest, they don’t hire.”  Ayrault replied that he’s acting to lower spending and
embarking on a lasting overhaul of the economy after a decade in
which Cope’s party held power and failed to act.  “We are trying to make historic reforms,” Ayrault said.
“We’re undertaking a complete renovation of our social system
and have begun a battle for jobs.”  Confidence Votes  The confidence vote was the first faced by Hollande’s
cabinet. His predecessor  Nicolas Sarkozy  faced three such votes
between 2007 and 2012.  Only one vote of confidence passed since its creation with
the constitution of the Fifth Republic in 1958. It overthrew the
government of Prime Minister Georges Pompidou in 1962 as it
sought to pass the universal suffrage.  Hollande’s Socialist Party has 276 seats in the 540-seat
National Assembly, constituting a majority that’s strengthened
by the backing of allies who have another 32 votes. The
opposition UMP has 186 seats.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  