-- Homex Bonds Tumble in Selloff of Mexican Homebuilders
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   V e r b r i g g h e   a n d   B o r i s   K o r b y
-- 2013-03-20T22:29:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/homex-bonds-tumble-in-selloff-of-mexican-homebuilders.html
Bonds from Mexican homebuilders
including Desarrolladora Homex SAB and  Urbi Desarrollos Urbanos
SAB (URBI*)  plunged, pushing borrowing costs for the companies to the
highest in at least three years.  Homex’s $250 million of securities due 2015 tumbled 9.12
cents on the dollar to 83.7 cents at 4:59 p.m. in New York,
pushing yields up 4.8 percentage points to 15.6 percent, the
highest since March 31, 2009, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Urbi’s $500 million of 2022 bonds fell 5.05 cents to
57.22 cents, the lowest since the securities were issued in
January 2012.  Investors this year have punished securities of the
country’s homebuilders amid disappointing earnings, negative
cash flow reports and changes in government housing policy to
promote more capital-intensive apartment construction. Homex
shares have fallen for  nine straight days , leaving them down 26
percent this year at a record low.  “You can’t fight the market,” said Revisson Bonfim, an
analyst at Espirito Santo Investment Bank, in a telephone
interview. “It’s hard to say where the bottom is for
homebuilders until sentiment turns.”  After markets closed in New York, Moody’s Investors Service
said in a statement that it changed the outlook on Homex’s
credit rating to negative from stable. Urbi’s rating was cut by
two levels to B2, five levels below investment grade, according
to a separate statement.  Homex  shares  tumbled 5.9 percent today to 19.67 at the
close of trading in Mexico City. Urbi shares rose 7.2 percent
today, snapping an eight-day plunge of 41 percent.  Visibility Lacking  “The lack of visibility around Mexican housing policies
has left investors wondering” when cash flow will turn
positive, Henri Alexaline, a fixed-income investor who helps
manage $1 billion at FM Capital Partners Ltd. in London, said in
an e-mail. “The smart money is buying at these levels, even if
the ride will be volatile.”  Analyst reports this week heightened investor concerns that
prices may have lower to go as Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  cut its
rating on Culiacan-based Homex to sell from the equivalent of
hold and lowered its price targets for Mexicali-based Urbi.
Credit Suisse Group AG maintained its recommendation of the two
companies at the equivalent of sell.  Urbi has said it’s revising contracts with service
providers, subcontractors and partners as part of its
consolidation process to become “smaller, but more solid and
flexible.” The companies also need to assess whether their land
holdings will be valuable under new regulations.  “These companies are likely to have a difficult road in
the next couple of years,” Bonfim said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Danielle Verbrigghe in New York at 
 dverbrigghe@bloomberg.net ;
Boris Korby in New York at 
 bkorby1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  