-- Hong Kong Stocks Gain; China Rally Tempers Cyprus Concern
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2013-03-20T09:25:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/hong-kong-stocks-drop-for-fourth-day-as-cyprus-rejects-bank-levy.html
Hong Kong  stocks  rose for the first
time in four days as a rally among mainland Chinese shares in
the city offset investor concerns that Cyprus’s rejection of a
bailout plan shows Europe will struggle to contain its debt
crisis.  Guangzhou R&F Properties Co. (2777)  jumped 7.6 percent after the
homebuilder in the Southern Chinese city posted full-year
earnings that beat analyst estimates. A gauge of property stocks
in Hong Kong fell 9.4 percent this month through yesterday.
Citic Securities Co. and Haitong Securities Co. gained more than
4 percent on speculation  China ’s biggest brokerages will deliver
improved profits as the stock market recovers.  The Hang Seng Index rose 1 percent to 22,256.44 at the
close, with about three shares rising for each that fell. The
gauge declined 2.7 percent this year through yesterday, making
it the world’s worst-performing developed market outside of
 Italy . Shares fell as China’s efforts to rein in property prices
and restructure its economy added to concern that Europe
mightn’t be able to contain its debt crisis.  “ Hong Kong  stocks will bounce back as some shares are
looking attractive,” said Khiem Do, Hong Kong-based head of
Asian multi-asset strategy at Baring Asset Management Ltd.,
which oversees about $51 billion. “How far they bounce back
will depend on whether companies can continue to deliver
earnings growth. The market has been spooked by what’s happening
in Cyprus and concerns about China.”  China Manufacturing  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  climbed 2.2 percent
to 10,978.75, the most since Feb. 28, before a report due to be
released tomorrow that may show Chinese manufacturing expanded
at a faster pace this month. The gauge declined 12 percent from
a Feb. 1 high through yesterday, entering a so-called
correction, on concern China will introduce more property curbs
after  home prices  posted the broadest advance since December
2011.  Trading volume on the Hang Seng Index was about equal with
the 30-day intraday average, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Mainland companies  make up  more than half of the city’s market
value, according to Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd.,
operator of the city’s only public bourse.  The benchmark index will more than double from current
levels by 2015 as global central banks maintain loose monetary
policies and as  China’s economy  grows, Morgan Stanley analysts
led by  Jonathan Garner  wrote in a report yesterday.  Shares on the gauge traded at 10.8 times estimated
earnings, compared with 14 for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
and 12.8 for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Cyprus Bailout  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index added 0.3
percent today. The  S&P 500  dropped 0.2 percent yesterday,
sending the gauge to its longest slump of the year, as Cyprus
lawmakers rejected an unprecedented levy on  bank deposits ,
dealing a blow to European plans to force savers to shoulder
part of the country’s bailout.  “Rather than being interpreted as an acute contagion
issue, this has served more as a reminder that the long-term
structural problems present in  Europe  persist,” Misha Graboi,
portfolio manager at  Irvine , California-based Pacific
Alternative Asset Management Co., said in an e-mail. “While the
 European Central Bank  is aggressively trying to shore up market
confidence in the short run, exactly how the Euro zone extracts
itself from these issues is not clear.”  Cyprus is the fifth euro-zone country to seek a bailout
since 2010 to avoid a collapse of its financial system. The
country isn’t a major problem, Laurence D. Fink, chief executive
officer of BlackRock Inc., the world’s largest asset manager,
said in a Bloomberg Television interview in Hong Kong.  Developers Advance  Chinese developers led gains in Hong Kong as companies from
Guangzhou R&F Properties and  Country Garden Holdings Co. (2007)  posted
earnings that surpassed expectations.  Guangzhou R&F Properties climbed 7.6 percent to HK$12.20 as
it reported full-year net income of 5.5 billion  yuan  ($885
million), which exceeded the 4.89 billion average estimate by
three analysts  Country Garden Holdings Co., a Chinese developer controlled
by billionaire Yang Huiyan, surged 9.4 percent to HK$3.95, the
most since December 2011. Brokerages including BNP Paribas and
Maybank Kim Eng Holdings Ltd. raised their ratings on the stock
to buy after the company posted earnings that beat analyst
estimates.  China Minsheng Banking Corp., the nation’s first privately
owned lender, gained 5.7 percent to HK$10.70. Total assets at
the Hong Kong unit, which began operations a year ago, will grow
to more than HK$100 billion ($13 billion) in three years,
including off-balance-sheet items, Lin Zhihong, chief executive
officer at the Chinese lender’s subsidiary in the city, said in
an interview March 15. The figure stood at HK$33.2 billion at
the end of last year.  Shanghai Rally  Chinese brokerages rallied as the Shanghai Composite Index
advanced by most since Jan. 14. The measure will rally after
reaching a 2013 low this week, according Tom DeMark, the founder
of Market Studies LLC.  Citic Securities, the nation’s biggest brokerage, rose 5.7
percent to HK$17.74. Haitong Securities, the second-largest,
added 4.8 percent to HK$11.32.  China Mobile Ltd. (941) , the nation’s biggest mobile-phone
carrier, increased 1.4 percent to HK$81.45, the highest since
Dec. 5. The company gained 5.8 million new wireless users in
February, or 52 percent of new subscribers, the most in 18
months, according to a report by Bloomberg Industries.  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  futures increased 1.3 percent to 22,255.
The  HSI Volatility Index (VHSI)  fell 2.6 percent to 16.54, indicating
traders expect a swing of 4.7 percent for the equity benchmark
in the next 30 days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  