-- Hong Kong’s LME Purchase Helps in Bargaining With China, Li Says
-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a   a n d   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 2013-03-20T08:44:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/hong-kong-s-lme-purchase-helps-in-bargaining-with-china-li-says.html
Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing
Ltd. (388) ’s $2.2 billion purchase of the London Metal Exchange may
help the bourse operator in its negotiations with  China , said
Chief Executive Officer Charles Li.  The LME “will deliver substantial strategic collateral
benefit in order for us to position ourselves to renegotiate a
grand bargain with China Inc.,” Li told a conference today in
Hong Kong. “Whatever we paid, ultimately it’s going to be a
great bargain if you look at it a few years from now.”  The takeover of the U.K. exchange, completed in December,
is at 180 times trailing net income and the most expensive
merger over $1 billion in Bloomberg data going back to 2000. The
price was “hefty,” Li said.  Sitting next to the world’s largest consumer of everything
from coal to copper and zinc, Hong Kong’s acquisition of the LME
endowed the bourse overnight with the top metals exchange
operator. The trading value of contracts on the LME reached a
record $15.4 trillion in 2011.  China, the world’s largest economy after the U.S., will
open its markets and allow its currency to float within five
years, Li said March 14. By 2015, a third of China’s cross-
border trade will be settled in  yuan , making the currency one of
the three most-used in global trade along with the dollar and
euro, HSBC Holdings Plc forecast in a March 11 report.  The country’s regulators have expanded a program allowing
institutions to raise yuan offshore for investment in the
mainland, a step that moves the nation closer to a freely traded
currency. The move was posted on the China Securities
Regulatory Commission’s website on March 6.  “We want to be the global exchange of choice for China
clients and we want to be the exchange of choice for
international clients wanting to have a China exposure,” Li
said today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net ;
Kana Nishizawa in  Hong Kong  at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  