-- Optos Declines on Pace of Eye-Care Device Sales: London Mover
-- B y   D a v i d   R i s s e r
-- 2013-03-20T12:24:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/optos-declines-on-pace-of-eye-care-device-sales-london-mover.html
Optos Plc (OPTS) , the maker of the Daytona
retinal imaging device, fell the most in 10 months after saying
second-quarter earnings will be lower than anticipated because
the diagnostic tool is selling more slowly than it forecast.  “Interest in the device continues to build, but sales are
softer than we had hoped for at this stage,” the Dunfermline,
Scotland-based company said today in a statement. Software
enhancements mean that “some customers are waiting to order
machines, which has contributed to lower sales in the first
half.”  The  stock declined  as much as 18 percent, wiping away its
gain this year, in the biggest drop since May 2012. Optos traded
down 13 percent at 174.5 pence as of 12:22 p.m., the second-
biggest decline on the FTSE All-Share Index.  Optos is beginning to deliver 250 Daytonas on rental
contracts to OPSM Group Ltd., an optometry chain in  Australia 
and  New Zealand  owned by  Luxottica Group SpA (LUX) , adding to 160 of
the eye-care devices installed for the company last year. The
deal means that a greater proportion of the desktop retinal
evaluation tools will be rented, Optos said.  “A greater weighting toward rentals, versus capital sales,
means that net debt has increased,” Charles Weston, an  analyst 
at Numis Securities, said today in a note. The London-based
analyst cut his share recommendation to add from buy, and
reduced his price prediction to 200 pence from 300 pence.  Weston reduced his sales estimate for 2013 by 7.5 percent
to $191.3 million and said pretax profit may be $17.5 million,
down from a prediction of $27.7 million because of “high
operating leverage.”  Worldwide Adoption  Even so, “clinical evidence for the use of ultra-widefield
imaging is strong and building,” Weston said. The technology
will be increasingly adopted worldwide, implying that Optos
shares are already worth more than 300 pence, he said.  The company’s primary products generate high-resolution
digital images of about 82 percent of the retina, something no
other device can do in a single image, according to Optos’s
 website . That aids early detection and treatment of eye
disorders and diseases.  Optos shares offer a potential 12-month return of almost 50
percent, according to the average of five analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. Six of 10 analysts recommend buying the
shares, including Julie Simmonds at Canaccord Genuity, who
reiterated her rating today and has a price target of 312 pence.  Optos said its expectations for the full year are
unchanged, though earnings will be weighted more to the second
half than previously anticipated. Revenue adjusted for some
items beat the average analyst estimate last year, as did
operating profit and earnings per share. The company’s fiscal
year finishes at the end of September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Risser in London at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Heather Harris at 
 hharris5@bloomberg.net  