-- Osborne Doubles Down on U.K.’s Bad Fiscal Bet
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-03-20T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/osborne-doubles-down-on-u-k-s-bad-fiscal-bet.html
U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer
George Osborne tinkered busily with taxes and public spending in
his new  budget , as tradition requires, but left the overall
fiscal and monetary policy unchanged. This is a pity.  The U.K. economy is flailing. A new  forecast  by the Office
of Budget Responsibility says that Britain will avoid a triple-
dip recession this year -- barely. Expected  growth  in gross
domestic product is just 0.6 percent, down from the previous
forecast of 1.2 percent. The budget office predicts only a
feeble recovery in 2014 and 2015, and says that unemployment
won’t fall to less than 7 percent until 2017.  “It is taking longer than anyone hoped,” Osborne said, “but
we must hold to the right track.”  This isn’t the right track. Osborne is correct, of course,
that turmoil in the euro area has hammered U.K. exports and that
his program of fiscal austerity isn’t to blame for the
recession. He’s also right that the government must get a grip
on longer-term public borrowing. Nonetheless, too-tight fiscal
policy here and now is making things worse. With interest rates
very low, a significantly expanded program of public investment
would have made sense, even at the cost of a bigger short-term
deficit.  Osborne plans to increase the government’s capital
spending, but wants to pay for this mainly by squeezing current
spending. That switch is fine, as far as it goes. Unfortunately,
it caps the rise in capital spending far too severely. The
budget announced an increase in infrastructure allocations of
just 3 billion pounds a year starting in 2015.  In a calculated grab for favorable headlines -- another
hallowed  U.K. budget  tradition -- Osborne announced a plan to
subsidize and partially guarantee housing loans. Desirable as a
housing-market recovery may be, that’s a dubious initiative at
best. Government meddling in housing finance rarely ends well.
Osborne also announced another cut in the tax on business
profits -- from 21 percent to 20 percent in 2015 (assuming his
party is still in power).  Financial markets thought Osborne might change the
government’s instructions to the Bank of England on monetary
policy, perhaps signaling a more permissive attitude to
inflation. He made the smallest gesture in that direction, by
endorsing the central bank’s flexible interpretation of its
mandate and telling it to be more explicit about the trade-off
between growth and short-term inflation in explaining its
monetary-policy decisions.  In the future, he said, the Bank’s mandate may be changed
to include “forward guidance” on interest rates, of the kind the
U.S. Federal Reserve now issues. A more thorough review of the
monetary-policy rules will probably follow Mark Carney’s arrival
as governor later this year. For now, though, the 2 percent
inflation target is unchanged -- and the pound strengthened on
the news.  Osborne’s overall strategy remains as it was before:
continued fiscal stringency allied to monetary easing courtesy
of the Bank of  England . In Britain’s depressed economy, with
interest rates at zero and diminishing returns from quantitative
easing, it’s hard for monetary policy to get much purchase. On
the morning of the budget announcement, the Bank of England
released the minutes of its meeting in March showing that its
monetary policy committee voted 6-3 (with Mervyn King, the
governor, on the losing side) against further easing, on fears
that the central bank’s credibility might be eroding.  Osborne’s right to worry about the public debt, but he has
the balance wrong. The U.K can borrow very cheaply and has its
own currency, so it can’t default on its nominal obligations.
That’s an advantage it should exploit. Fiscal policy should play
a larger role, and this budget was a missed opportunity.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 