-- Osborne Should Be Fired, Voters Say in Pre-Budget Poll
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2013-03-20T09:36:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/osborne-should-be-fired-voters-say-in-pre-budget-poll.html
George Osborne  should be replaced
as Britain’s chancellor of the exchequer, almost half of those
questioned in a poll said, with a similar number urging him to
ease his austerity program as the economy struggles to grow.  The poll by ComRes Ltd. for ITV News showed 44 percent of
voters want Osborne, who announces his annual budget today, to
be removed, while 18 percent said he should stay in his job.
ComRes found that 41 percent of respondents said he should
borrow more money to spend on infrastructure, while 61 percent
said the economy is heading back into recession.  Osborne outlined further cuts to departmental spending to
fund extra capital investment yesterday to the Cabinet, a day
before his statement at 12:30 p.m. to Parliament in London. He
has vowed to stick to his austerity plans. Even amid the new
spending reductions, criticism from ministers has been muted,
suggesting Osborne may have found money to fund a tax cut in
today’s announcement.  “The government insists it is sticking to fiscal
responsibility and monetary activism, but this does not preclude
some modest tax cuts and investment spending,” said  Ross Walker , an economist at  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  in
London.  Investors are losing confidence in the coalition
government’s plans as the economic slump lingers.  Gross domestic
product  fell 0.3 percent in the fourth quarter of 2012 and a
contraction this quarter would mark an unprecedented triple-dip
recession.  Labour Ideas  The  Labour Party ’s Treasury spokesman, lawmaker  Ed Balls ,
told  BBC television  on March 17 Osborne should cut value-added
tax, reduce  National Insurance (ANAT)  contributions for small companies
and reintroduce a 10 percent starting rate of income tax,
compared with the current 20 percent basic rate.  “First of all, we would be seeking to boost demand,”
Labour’s business spokesman, Chuka Umunna, told Bloomberg
Television’s  Guy Johnson  this morning. He said cutting VAT to
17.5 percent from 20 percent would be “the quickest way --
actually, even quicker than giving an income-tax cut -- of
getting money into the economy.”  While such a step would incur “a bit of short-term
borrowing,” increased, growth, employment and tax receipts
would compensate in the longer term, Umunna said.  The poll showed that 54 percent of voters said the way
Osborne is reducing the budget is unfair and 56 percent said he
is cutting too much and too quickly. ComRes interviewed 2,032
adults online from March 15 to March 17. It didn’t specify a
margin of error.  Spending Cuts  Government departments’ current spending will be reduced by
1 percent a year in the three years starting in April 2013,
Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s spokesman, Jean-Christophe Gray,
told reporters in London yesterday. The effort will raise 2.5
billion pounds ($3.8 billion) over two years, which will go into
capital projects to be announced by Osborne in Parliament today.  Osborne will have at his disposal 2.2 billion pounds from
bringing forward by a year to 2016 plans for a flat-rate state
pension. The chancellor will outline how he will use that money
in his statement to lawmakers.  Liberal Democrats in the coalition government such as
Business Secretary Vince Cable have been urging more spending on
infrastructure, while some in Cameron’s and Osborne’s
 Conservative Party  have called for a tighter squeeze on
spending.  Calls for greater action to aid growth from both Tories and
Liberal Democrats have subsided in recent days, suggesting
Osborne’s budget will include measures to appease critics such
as Cable.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in  London  at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  