-- Osborne Pledges Five More Years of U.K. Austerity
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a ,   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2013-03-21T08:38:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/osborne-pledges-five-more-years-of-u-k-austerity.html
U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  held firm to his austerity plan as the economy
continues to stagnate, saying  government spending  cuts will
carry on for three years after the 2015 election.  As official growth forecasts were further downgraded,
Osborne sought in his budget speech to Parliament yesterday to
regain voters’ support. He announced tax cuts for low earners
and companies and measures to boost home ownership, all financed
by a squeeze on departmental budgets and a renewed crackdown on
tax avoiders.  The chancellor has come under increasing pressure from
voters and members of his own  Conservative Party  after policy U-
turns on last year’s budget began an erosion of trust in his
ability to manage an  economy that’s on the brink of a triple-dip
recession . While  yesterday’s measures  may alleviate some of that
pressure, Britain’s economic difficulties are likely to weigh on
the Tories’ chances of retaining power under Prime Minister
 David Cameron  in 2015.  “This is Osborne’s gamble; he’s hanging in there with
austerity in the hope things get better for the election,” said
Mark Wickham-Jones, professor of politics at Bristol University.
“The rhetoric is unyielding. There is fiddling with policies
here and there, but if things don’t get better there are going
to be a lot of nerves by next year.”  ‘Difficult Decisions’  Osborne told  BBC Television  this morning there will be
“more difficult decisions” to be taken on public spending in
the next couple of months in negotiations with ministers over
further budget cuts. “If your question to me is, do we need to
do more to tackle the nation’s deficit and debt, I agree with
you,” he said.  The chancellor said in 2010 he would get rid of Britain’s
budget deficit by 2015 in order to protect the top  credit rating 
on  government bonds . He has failed to do both, and recent data
have fueled concern that Britain may be back in recession, after
a 0.3 percent contraction in the final three months of 2012.  A pre-budget ComRes Ltd. poll found 44 percent of
respondents saying Osborne should be replaced, against 18
percent saying he should stay in his job. The Tories are running
consistently 10 points behind the opposition  Labour Party  in
national polls of voting intention.  Tory former Defense Secretary  Liam Fox  has advocated tax
cuts to be paid for by a freeze in government spending. Home
Secretary Theresa May and Defense Secretary Philip Hammond were
both resisting efforts by Osborne to reduce their budgets.  Weaker Growth  The  Office for Budget Responsibility  predicted yesterday
that the economy will grow by 0.6 percent this year, half of
what it forecast in December. The expansion will be weaker in
than expected in 2014, at 1.8 percent instead of 2 percent.  The deficit will be 120.9 billion pounds ($183 billion) in
the fiscal year that ends this month, 1 billion pounds higher
than the OBR previously forecast. Even so, recent squeezes to
departmental budgets mean Osborne will achieve his target of
having a smaller deficit than last year by 100 million pounds --
a rounding error in the 720 billion pounds of government
spending.  Osborne said he would stick to the same fiscal course while
providing the  Bank of England  with greater scope to stimulate
demand. He announced a new mandate for the central bank, though
he kept its 2 percent inflation target. The pound whipsawed
during the chancellor’s speech.  ‘Economic Storms’  “It is taking longer than anyone hoped, but we must hold
to the right track,” Osborne told lawmakers. “I will be
straight with the country: another bout of economic storms in
the euro zone would hit Britain’s economic fortunes hard
again.”  Labour leader  Ed Miliband  attacked Osborne for imposing
more sacrifice on the country.  “This is the chancellor’s fourth budget, but one thing
unites them all,” Miliband said. “Every budget he brings to
this house has been worse, not better, for the country. All he
offers is more of the same. Higher borrowing and lower growth.”  Against this backdrop of weak growth and high public debt,
Osborne outlined changes to tax and spending policies within the
confines of a fiscally neutral budget.  He squeezed departmental budgets by 2.4 billion pounds over
the next two fiscal years to help pay for 3 billion pounds of
support for the housing sector.  Beer Tax  Tax-avoidance measures aimed at companies and offshore
financial centers will raise 4.9 billion pounds in the next five
fiscal years, to fund a freeze in fuel duty and a 1-penny cut on
the tax paid on every pint of beer.  Similarly, a further squeeze on departmental budgets after
2015 will help fund almost 8 billion pounds of tax cuts for
companies.  “He’s made the little he had go as far as it possibly
could in political terms,” Rick Nye, a pollster with Populus
Ltd., said in an interview.  The squeeze on departmental budgets will win Osborne
support from rank-and-file members of his party who’ve been
calling for lower spending, while at the same time causing
concerns to ministers who have to implement the cuts.  Osborne said there will be reductions of 11.5 billion
pounds in the fiscal year that starts a month before the May
2015 election, with health, schools and overseas aid excluded.
Ministries will have to find further savings of 3.3 billion
pounds in each of the following two years, he said.  ‘Aspiration Budget’  Osborne’s “aspiration budget,” designed to show voters
that he is trying to support working families, also included
child-care funding of 1.9 billion pounds over three years that
starts a month before voters go to the polls.  “There are things in the budget that many Tories will like
but it is not immediately obvious, aside perhaps from the
housing measures, what is going to make a difference with voters
between now and May 2015,” said  John Curtice , a professor of
politics at Strathclyde University in Glasgow,  Scotland .  Still, Labour urged voters to focus on the bigger picture:
the lack of economic growth and the continued fragility of the
public finances.  “This wasn’t a budget about the measures, it was about the
updating of the strategy,” its Treasury spokesman,  Ed Balls ,
told reporters. “It isn’t a change in the strategy, it’s more
of the same. All that changes is the scale of the problem,
because the plan’s not working.”  Cameron, though, still has two years until the election. At
an Easter reception in his Downing Street office last night, the
prime minister recounted how, when he was running for the
leadership of his party in 2005, Osborne “told me to call it
all off, it wasn’t going anywhere.” Easter, he went on, was the
most important Christian festival.  “It’s all about, for me, the triumph of life over death,”
he said. “Which in politics is always useful.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  