-- Osborne Plans Mortgage-Guarantee Program to Stimulate Lending
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2013-03-20T14:18:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/osborne-plans-mortgage-guarantee-program-to-stimulate-lending.html
U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  announced a plan to guarantee as much as 130
billion pounds ($197 billion) of new mortgages to stimulate
demand from home buyers with limited cash to put down a deposit.  The government will compensate lenders for as much as 20
percent of losses incurred over the first seven years of a
mortgage’s life, according to a  statement  on the Treasury’s
website today. Lenders, who will be required to pay a fee for
the guarantee, will also be liable for 5 percent of losses on
the insured portion of the loan to discourage them from
extending risky mortgages, the government said. The plan will
start next year and run for three years.  “This will be available to lenders to help them provide
more mortgages to people who can’t afford a big deposit,”
Osborne told lawmakers in London today. “Using the government’s
balance sheet to back these higher loan-to-value mortgages will
dramatically increase their availability.”  Osborne is trying to increase the availability of loans in
Britain’s 1.2 trillion-pound mortgage market after banks such as
 Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  made borrowers put up larger deposits
after the credit crisis of 2008. The Funding for Lending plan,
under which lenders can obtain funding from the  Bank of England 
for loans to companies and individuals, has helped to reduce
funding costs for banks.  Still, the number of first-time buyers in 2012 was 40
percent lower than in 2007, while the number of home sales is
still about 50 percent down, the Treasury said.  Self-Financing Plan  “Current turnover rates are equivalent to houses selling,
on average, once every 25 years, compared to once every 15 years
before the crisis,” the Treasury said in a statement. “This
trend is unlikely to be consistent with a well-functioning
housing market.”  The program will apply to residential mortgages on
properties valued at less than 600,000 pounds where the borrower
can put up between 5 percent and 20 percent of the purchase
price, Osborne said. Buy-to-let mortgages will be excluded as
will borrowers re-mortgaging with the same lender.  The government plans to limit its liability to about 12
billion pounds. The program is intended to be self-financing
because of the fees from lenders, the Treasury said. Those fees
will be subject to regular review.  Separately, the government committed 3.5 billion pounds to
help new home buyers purchase newly built properties. The
government will offer loans equal to 20 percent of the value of
a home to help revive the housebuilding industry,  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in  London  at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  