-- Osborne Says 2013 U.K. Growth Forecast Cut in Half
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2013-03-20T15:05:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/osborne-says-2013-gdp-forecast-cut-in-half-cites-europe-risks.html
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said the forecast for  U.K. economic growth  this year was
cut by half as he lowered corporation tax and set out an updated
central-bank remit to aid Britain’s recovery.  Gross domestic product will increase 0.6 percent this year,
compared with a previous forecast of 1.2 percent, Osborne told
Parliament in London as he delivered his annual budget statement
today, citing the  Office for Budget Responsibility ’s
predictions. The economy will grow 1.8 percent next year,
compared with a previous estimate of 2 percent, and it will
expand 2.3 percent in 2015, he added.  “It is taking longer than anyone hoped, but we must hold
to the right track,” Osborne told lawmakers. “The problems in
Cyprus this week are further evidence that the crisis is not
over, and the situation remains very worrying,” he said,
referring to the uncertainty over a planned European Union
rescue package for the Mediterranean island.  Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s Conservatives are trailing
the Labour opposition in the polls as voters blame the
government’s austerity package for a persistent economic slump.
With  Bank of England  policy makers split on the need for more
stimulus, Osborne handed them greater flexibility today to meet
their inflation target while dealing with economic shocks.  Updated Remit  The pound stayed higher after the chancellor’s speech,
trading up 0.5 percent today at $1.5168 as of 2:43 p.m. in
London. The yield on the 10-year gilt was up 4 basis points at
1.867 percent.  Osborne set out an “updated” Bank of England remit, which
reaffirmed its 2 percent inflation goal. In a separate letter,
he stated the central bank was correct to interpret this
flexibly.  “The new remit explicitly tasks the MPC with setting out
clearly the trade-offs it has made in deciding how long it will
be before inflation returns to target,” Osborne told
Parliament. “The new remit also recognizes that the Monetary
Policy Committee may need to use unconventional monetary
instruments to support the economy while keeping inflation
stable.”  Recent data have fueled concern that Britain may be back in
recession, after a 0.3 percent contraction in the final three
months of 2012. Data today showed  jobless claims  fell less than
economists forecast in February and a wider unemployment measure
rose for the first time in a year as the number of young people
seeking work climbed.  Euro-Area Risk  Osborne also warned that renewed turmoil in the euro area,
Britain’s biggest export market, may hurt recovery prospects
further.  “I will be straight with the country: another bout of
economic storms in the euro zone would hit Britain’s economic
fortunes hard again,” Osborne said.  Labour leader  Ed Miliband  attacked Osborne for imposing
four more years of sacrifice on the country, rather than the one
further year that had originally been planned.  “This is the chancellor’s fourth budget, but one thing
unites them all,” Miliband said. “Every budget he brings to
this house has been worse, not better, for the country. All he
offers is more of the same. Higher borrowing and lower growth.”  The OBR today raised its deficit forecasts, citing weaker-
than-expected tax income. Excluding the transfer of Royal Mail
pension assets and payments of coupon income the Bank of England
earns on its holdings of  government bonds , the deficit will be
120.9 billion pounds ($183.4 billion) in the fiscal year that
ends this month, 1 billion pounds higher than it previously
forecast.  Higher Deficit  Over the five fiscal years starting in April, the deficit
will total 434 billion pounds, 55.7 billion pounds higher than
forecast in December. It means net borrowing will fall from 7.8
percent of GDP in the current fiscal year to 2.3 percent of GDP
in 2017-18, the OBR said. The structural deficit, currently 4
percent of GDP, will be eliminated by 2016-17.  The OBR also expects net debt to begin falling in 2017-18, a
year later than planned. It’s the second time the debt target
has slipped. Net debt will peak at 85.6 percent of GDP in 2016-
17. The OBR previously put the peak at 79.9 percent of GDP in
2015-16.  Osborne said  corporation tax  will be reduced by 1
percentage point to 20 percent starting in April 2015.  “I want us to send a message to anyone who wants to invest
here, to create jobs here, that Britain is open for business,”
the chancellor said. “Britain will have a 20 percent rate of
corporation tax -- the lowest business tax of any major economy
in the world.”  Bank Levy  The U.K.’s levy on banks will be increased for a sixth time
to 0.142 percent, he said. In an effort to boost hiring, Osborne
also announced a new Employment Allowance. It will take the
first 2,000 pounds off the social-security contributions that
companies pay. The measure, which takes effect in April next
year, will cost the Treasury 1.7 billion pounds by 2017.  Osborne also said he will raise the personal tax-free
allowance on salaries to an annual 10,000 pounds, a key demand
of his  Conservative Party ’s Liberal Democrat coalition partners,
starting next year. The move means that “almost 3 million more
of the lowest paid will pay no income tax at all,” he said.  The government will also scrap a planned increase on duty
on motor fuel, which had been scheduled for September.  “Today, I am canceling this September’s fuel-duty increase
altogether,” Osborne said. “Petrol will now be 13 pence per
liter cheaper than if we had not acted over these last two years
to freeze fuel duty.”  Further measures announced today include help for new home
buyers, with the government pledging to commit 3.5 billion
pounds to offer and guarantee loans. Osborne said that under the
“Help to Buy” program, the government will provide an equity
loan of up to 20 percent of the value of a newly built home.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in  London  at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  