-- Osborne to Give BOE More Flexibility to Meet 2% Inflation Goal
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2013-03-20T13:05:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/osborne-to-give-boe-more-flexibility-to-meet-2-inflation-goal.html
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said he’s changing the mandate of the  Bank of England  to
give officials greater flexibility to meet a 2 percent inflation
target amid shocks to the economy.  “The remit recognizes that inflation will on occasion
depart from its target as a result of shocks and disturbances.
Attempts to keep inflation at the target in these circumstances
may cause undesirable volatility in output,” Osborne said in a
letter to Governor  Mervyn King  published today. The new approach
“allows for a balanced approach to the objectives set out in
the remit, while retaining the primacy of  price stability  and
the inflation target.”  The goal -- to keep inflation at 2 percent subject to the
economic objectives of the government -- has been a political
football since November, when  Mark Carney  was named to replace
Governor Mervyn King in July. Carney told U.K. lawmakers earlier
this year he saw merit in making the target more flexible, while
King has said he didn’t see a case for a major revision.  Osborne also underscored the central bank’s right to use
unorthodox measures to revive the economy.  “Given the ongoing exceptional challenges facing the U.K.
economy, it is possible the committee may judge it necessary to
deploy new unconventional policy instruments or approaches in
future, including some of those deployed by other central banks
in recent years,” Osborne said.  Osborne also said he’d consider allowing policy makers to
issue forward guidance on policy, following the example set by
the U.S. Federal Reserve. The central bank will assess how
“intermeditate thresholds might work” and will report back to
the government in August.  Both King and Carney have seen the new remit and agreed to
it, Osborne said in parliament today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  