-- Emerging Stocks Rebound on Cyprus as Cemig Sinks Bovespa
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v   a n d   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-03-20T21:55:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/most-emerging-stocks-fall-as-thai-india-slump-china-rallies.html
Emerging-market stocks rose for the
first time in eight days as  Europe  weighed options for Cyprus’s
bailout and the Federal Reserve said it would maintain the
current pace of bond purchases. Brazilian shares slid.  VTB Group, Russia’s second-biggest bank which has a Cypriot
unit, rebounded from a three-month low, an Hungarian lender  OTP
Bank Nyrt. (OTP)  jumped.  Mirae Asset Securities Co. (037620)  fell a third day
in  Seoul  as a cyberattack shut down some computer networks.
 Brazil ’s Bovespa index fell to a two-week low as utility Cia.
Energetica de Minas Gerais plunged.  China ’s  Shanghai Composite (SHCOMP) 
Index surged the most among Asian bourses.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  gained 0.1 percent to
1,026.35, rising from a three-month low. Investors speculated
that the European Central Bank will continue to support Cypriot
banks until next week after lawmakers rejected an unprecedented
levy on bank deposits. The Fed will continue buying $85 billion
of bonds a month to bolster the U.S. economy, the Federal Open
Market Commitee said today after meeting in  Washington .  “The panic is abating and investors are moving back to
riskier assets such as emerging-market equities,” Joseph Dayan,
head of markets at BCS Financial Group in London, said by e-
mail. “Investors fairly quickly realized that Cyprus in not a
precedent for other peripheral European countries and that
deposits in mainstream financial systems remain off limits.”  A measure of financial stocks in the developing-nations
index rose, while technology companies fell. The broader
emerging-market gauge has slipped 2.7 percent this year,
trailing a 7.2 percent gain in the  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  of
developed-country stocks. The  emerging-markets  measure trades at
10.8 times 12-month projected profit, compared with the MSCI
World’s 14.2 valuation, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Emerging ETF  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund rose 0.6 percent to $42.23, the first gain in four days.
The Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets ETF
Volatility Index, a gauge of options prices on the fund and
expectations of price swings, slumped 5.3 percent to 18.09.  The Shanghai Composite gauge of domestic Chinese stocks
climbed 2.7 percent after Market Studies LLC’s Tom DeMark, who
corectly predicted a retreat in the index last month, said that
stocks will rally as much as 28 percent by September.  Brazil’s Bovespa index fell 0.6 percent as Cemig plunged 14
percent, leading  utilities  lower on concern regulators will
limit rate increases. The IPC Index gained 1 percent in Mexico
City as homebuilder  Urbi Desarrollos Urbanos SAB (URBI*)  snapped eight
days of losses.  Russia’s Micex Index gained 0.7 percent, rallying for the
first time in four days. VTB jumped 1.8 percent after the
company said it may lose “only tens of millions of euros” in
Cyprus as a worst-case scenario. The ruble strengthened 0.4
percent versus the dollar. The  Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX)  jumped
1.1 percent in New York, rebounding from the lowest level since
Nov. 28.  OTP Bank  Hungary’s BUX Index added 1.7 percent, climbing for the
first time in seven days, as OTP Bank rallied 3.3 percent. The
forint strengthened for a second day versus the euro. Hungary
plans no “dramatic” measures to help foreign-currency
borrowers, Daniel Gyuris, the acting head of the Hungarian
Banking Association, said by phone yesterday.  India ’s S&P BSE Sensex dropped 0.7 percent, falling for a
fourth day amid concern the withdrawal of the government’s
biggest partner from the ruling alliance may jeopardize economic
reforms.  South Korea’s Kospi Index retreated 1 percent, the most
since Jan. 15, with about half the slump occurring in the last
20 minutes of trading. The government is investigating a
cyberattack that shut down computer networks for banks and
broadcasters. Mirae Asset tumbled 5.1 percent.  The won lost as much as 0.8 percent against the dollar
after the government said it will consider steps to curb capital
flows.  The extra yield investors demand to own developing-nation
dollar debt over U.S. Treasuries fell seven basis points, or
0.07 percentage point, to 293 basis points, according to the
JPMorgan Chase & Co. EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Levitov in  London  at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  