-- Toure Gives Manchester City Contract Ultimatum: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-03-20T08:10:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/toure-gives-manchester-city-contract-ultimatum-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of
soccer stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet
links.  Toure Troubles  Manchester City midfielder Yaya Toure, 29, will start
talking to other teams unless he’s offered a new contract by
this weekend, the  Sun reported , citing the player’s agent.  Toure is City’s top earner on 200,000 pounds ($301,800) a
week and is ready to use FIFA rules that entitle players to buy
out the remainder of their contracts if they haven’t signed a
new deal by the end of the third year, the newspaper added.  “If he signs a contract in the next three or four days,
OK,” the Sun cited Toure’s agent, Dimitri Seluk, as saying.
“If not, we will not wait any longer and will start
negotiations with different clubs.”  Renewed Efforts  Juventus has renewed its efforts to sign striker  Luis Suarez  from Liverpool, the  Daily Mail reported .  The Italian league leader is in talks with Suarez’s agent
about a possible 30 million-euro ($38.6 million) transfer after
its previous attempt to acquire the Uruguayan ended when he
extended his Liverpool contract until 2018, the Mail said.  Chelsea Chase  Chelsea is ready to go head-to-head with Arsenal in the
chase to sign West Bromwich Albion’s 16-year-old midfielder
Isaiah Brown, the  Daily Telegraph reported .  The Blues are preparing a bid of 1 million pounds for
Brown, who hasn’t signed a professional contract with West Brom
and is yet to make a first-team appearance, the newspaper said.  Blackburn Targets Benitez  Rafael Benitez , Chelsea’s interim manager, tops Blackburn
Rovers’ list of possible replacements for Michael Appleton, who
was fired yesterday, the  Daily Mirror reported .  Although Blackburn owner Venkys has the money to chase a
top manager, Benitez is likely to be too proud to drop to the
second-tier Championship, the newspaper said.  Defensive Measure  England manager  Roy Hodgson  is considering using Manchester
United midfielder  Michael Carrick  as a center-back during this
week’s  World Cup  qualifier against  San Marino , the  Guardian
reported .  Due to a series of injuries and withdrawals, Hodgson may
start Joleon Lescott alongside Chris Smalling in the center of
defense and move Carrick back if San Marino proves difficult to
break down, the newspaper added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  