-- Pakistan Sets May 11 for Landmark Election Amid Economic Slump
-- B y   A u g u s t i n e   A n t o n y   a n d   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 2013-03-20T19:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/pakistan-to-hold-landmark-election-on-may-11-zardari-says-1-.html
Pakistanis will vote in
parliamentary elections on May 11, the first time that a
civilian government will hand power to another through a ballot
in the country’s history.  President Asif Ali Zardari’s office confirmed the election
date in a statement in Islamabad yesterday. The announcement
came as leading political parties debated names for a caretaker
government to run the country before the vote. If they fail to
agree, the Election Commission will nominate a premier.  The 342-member National Assembly was dissolved March 16 at
the end of its five years, with the outgoing  Pakistan  Peoples
Party-led government becoming the first democratically elected
administration in 65 years of independence to complete its term.  Zardari’s Peoples Party trails in opinion polls, winning
half the support of its leading rival, the Pakistan Muslim
League of former premier  Nawaz Sharif , in a March 4 survey
published by Gallup Pakistan. Its popularity has shrunk amid the
nation’s worst energy crisis, inflation above 7 percent, a
Taliban insurgency in the northwest and growing insecurity.  There’s “some maturity in the political system when the
transfer of power is taking place smoothly,” Rashid Ahmed Khan,
a professor of international relations and politics at the
University of Sargodha in central Pakistan, said in a phone
interview. “But Pakistan’s growing security and economic
challenges are overshadowing this very important achievement in
the country’s history. People are questioning whether
politicians are capable of solving their problems.”  Premier Choices  Whichever party wins in May will have to boost the $210
billion economy which has grown at an average 3 percent since
2007, less than half the annual pace of the previous five years
and too slow to reduce poverty in the world’s sixth-most
populous country. The U.S. is seeking the support of the
nuclear-armed nation as it bids to stabilize  Afghanistan  amid
plans to withdraw combat troops by the end of 2014.  Former finance minister Abdul Hafeez Shaikh, who resigned
last month, and an ex-governor of the central bank, Ishrat Husain, are among candidates for interim prime minister.
Zardari’s term expires in September. Pakistan’s president is
elected by members of the national and regional assemblies.  Previous civilian governments have been toppled by the
military, which has run the country for half its history.  While the government elected in 2002, in part headed by
former Citigroup Inc. executive Shaukat Aziz, completed a five-
year term, it was overseen by  Pervez Musharraf , who was both
president and army chief during the period.  The Peoples Party was preferred by 16 percent of
respondents, according to the March analysis by Gallup Pakistan
of two national polls carried out in November and February.
Sharif’s PML stood at 37 percent, with ex-cricket star  Imran
Khan ’s Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf on 16 percent. The February
survey of 9,660 voters had a margin of error of 2 percent to 3
percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net ;
Augustine Anthony in Islamabad at 
 aanthony9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  