-- Palo Alto Networks Clinches Ericsson Deal as Customer Wins Mount
-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 2013-03-20T20:25:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/palo-alto-networks-clinches-ericsson-deal-as-customer-wins-mount.html
Palo Alto Networks Inc. (PANW)  is winning
85 percent of deals it bids for, and has signed  Ericsson AB (ERICB)  as a
new client, according to documents obtained by Bloomberg.  The disclosures will come at a presentation at the
company’s inaugural analysts’ conference starting at 8 a.m.
tomorrow in New York. The network-security provider, which held
an initial public offering in July, will also announce that it’s
the primary firewall provider for more than three-quarters of
its new customers, the documents say.  Palo Alto, co-founded in 2005 by former  Check Point
Software Technologies Ltd. (CHKP)  executive Nir Zuk, is going head-to-
head in the network-security market with Check Point as well as
 Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  and  Juniper Networks Inc. (JNPR)  Palo Alto’s revenue
is rising  faster  than rivals as businesses seek to protect
themselves from sophisticated hacking attacks that older
security technologies have struggled to stop.  The enterprise firewall market will expand 11 percent this
year to $7.7 billion, according to a Feb. 7 report from
researcher Gartner Inc.  Check Point  and Palo Alto offer the top
products in the market, based on their quality and support,
Gartner said.  Palo Alto first sold shares to the public on July 19, 2012,
and saw its market value jump 71 percent during the next seven
weeks. The stock has since declined 22 percent to $55.93, giving
the company a market value of $3.87 billion.  Revenue Gains  Palo Alto said on its earnings call that the company added
more than 1,000 customers for the fifth straight quarter, and
now has more than 11,000 clients. Ericsson, the world’s largest
maker of wireless networks, marks another win in the Europe,
Middle East and Africa  region , which accounted for 25 percent of
Palo Alto’s revenue in the latest quarter.  Mike Haro , a spokesman for  Santa Clara , California-based
Palo Alto, and Jimmy Duvall, a spokesman for Stockholm-based
Ericsson, declined to comment.  Gartner said one of Palo Alto’s weaknesses is that it
doesn’t have technology in related markets, such as antivirus
and security management, so it can’t sell bundled products.  Still,  revenue  climbed 70 percent to $96.5 million in the
latest quarter, which ended in January. That compares with
growth of 5 percent at Cisco, 3.3 percent at Check Point and 1.8
percent at Juniper in their most recent quarters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in San Francisco at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  