-- Pennsylvania Judge Orders Records Opened in Fracking Case
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m   a n d   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2013-03-20T21:20:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/pennsylvania-judge-orders-records-opened-in-fracking-case.html
A Pennsylvania judge, handing a
victory to local media and health groups, ordered documents
unsealed in a settlement between gas-drillers and homeowners who
accused the companies of contaminating their water.  Common Pleas Court Judge Debbie O’Dell-Seneca said in a
ruling today that the natural-gas drillers failed to overcome
the presumption that the records should be open unless the
companies, including Fort Worth, Texas-based  Range Resources
Corp. (RRC) , showed they’d suffer harm to trade secrets or reputation.  “The defendants’ assertions of a right of privacy under
the Constitution of the  Commonwealth of Pennsylvania  are
meritless,” O’Dell-Seneca wrote.  In disputes from  Wyoming  to Texas to Pennsylvania, gas
drillers have often demanded homeowners keep quiet about their
complaints in exchange for buying their properties, delivering
fresh water or paying out a settlement. Without the information
about those individual cases, health and environmental groups
say they can’t assess the risks of fracking.  The disputed documents were not immediately unsealed and
their contents are not public. Before the records were closed,
the homeowners, Chris and Stephanie Hallowich, told  National
Geographic  magazine that their water was polluted by the wells,
pipelines, processing operations and truck traffic that came
into the rural area where they had built their home. They also
said they suffered burning eyes, sore throats and other symptoms
when gas was released into the air.  ‘Serious Allegations’  “They made very serious allegations about the health
impacts of drilling near their home,” Matthew Gerhart, an
attorney for  Earthjustice , which urged the court to unseal the
documents, said in an interview. “We are interested to know
whether there is anything in the record that sheds light on
those allegations.”  He called the decision a victory for anyone who believes
more information is needed on the health and environmental
consequences of hydraulic fracturing or fracking. While it’s not
clear what specific information the records’ contain, it will
probably prove relevant in assessing the effects of the fracking
boom across  Pennsylvania  and nationwide, he said.  Range, which fought to keep the record sealed, said it now
welcomes the disclosure.  ‘Greater Clarity’  The file “should provide the public with even greater
clarity that shale gas is being developed safely and
responsibly,” Matt Pitzarella, a company spokesman, said in an
e-mail.  The Pittsburgh Post-Gazette and the Observer-Reporter,
backed by health and environmental groups, sued to open the
settlement records over the objections drillers including Range
Resources, the company that pioneered fracking for natural gas
in the Marcellus Shale of Pennsylvania.  The Hallowich family also agreed to keep the records
confidential. Unlike most settlements, the deal needed approval
of a judge because their minor children were parties to the
case. That put the settlement in court, where the newspapers and
public interest groups could attack its confidentiality.  Fracking, in which water, sand and chemicals are shot
underground to break apart rock and free trapped natural gas,
has brought a  boom  in energy production to Pennsylvania,  Texas 
and  Colorado , and lowered natural gas prices. That’s lured
chemical and other manufacturers to invest in the U.S.  Landowner Complaints  The process has also sparked complaints from some nearby
landowners and farmers, who say leaks from holding ponds, spills
and underground ruptures have led to contamination of their
water.  The Hallowich family, which lived in western Pennsylvania,
sued Range and other gas drillers in 2010, claiming the drilling
operators and gas-processing facilities failed to adhere to
Pennsylvania environmental law for air, water and soil.  Hallowich and Range reached the settlement in 2011 after
filing a notice that they intended to sue.  The case is Hallowich v. Range Resources Corp., 2010-3954,
Court of Common Pleas of  Washington  County, Pennsylvania
(Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net ;
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  