-- Petrobras $237 Billion Investment Pressured by Sales Lag: Energy
-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d   a n d   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 2013-03-20T19:03:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/petrobras-237-billion-investment-pressured-by-sales-lag-energy.html
Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PBR) , the biggest
oil producer in deep waters, is raising less than forecast
through asset sales as it seeks cash for a $237 billion
investment plan aimed at refocusing on exploration at home.  The disappointing results reflect a glut of available
properties in the Gulf of Mexico, where competitors are also
trying to unload deep-water blocks, and the fact that the
potential value of the company’s Brazilian holdings are being
devalued by that government’s decision to hold its first oil
auction since 2008 later this year.  Petrobras, as the company is known, said March 15 it scaled
back a target for asset sales. The company now aims to sell and
restructure assets to raise $9.9 billion, almost $1 billion less
than its previous five-year investment plan, and instead will
rely more on cost controls as it doubles output by 2020. Failing
to sell assets would require the state-controlled company to
sell more bonds, according to  Fitch Ratings .  “They’ve been struggling to sell assets in the Gulf of
Mexico and Argentina,” Bernardo Wjuniski, an analyst at Medley
Global Advisers in  Sao Paulo , said by phone. “It doesn’t seem
this can be done as quickly as they want.”  In the Gulf of Mexico, for example, where Petrobras began
production this year, the company is competing with Houston-
based  Apache Corp. (APA)  and  ATP Oil & Gas Corp. (ATPAQ) , which are also
trying to shed assets. Meanwhile, plans to sell some of its
smaller properties in Brazil are being slowed as potential
buyers await the government’s first oil auction since 2008.  ‘Insignificant’ Value  “There’s a lot of supply in the market today,” Lincoln Guardado, chief executive officer of Rio de Janeiro-based oil
startup  QGEP Participacoes SA (QGEP3) , said on a March 14 conference
call. “We have farm outs and an auction.”  Where Petrobras has been successful, the results have been
meager. Petrobras said in an e-mail this week that it sold a
stake in Benin’s Block 4 in West Africa to  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) 
and its Flavian prospect in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico to  Plains
Exploration & Production Co. (PXP)  Although financial terms weren’t
disclosed, Petrobras said both sales were “insignificant” in
value.  Petrobras previously announced sales of a stake in an
offshore field and a plant in Argentina, valued at about $305
million.  New Debt  “Petrobras is a company that grew through acquisitions,”
Chief Executive Officer Maria das Graca Foster told analysts
yesterday on a conference call to discuss the investment plan.
“It is Petrobras’s first experience in divestments.”  The company plans to sell most of the $9.9 billion this
year and included new projects in the list of assets for sale,
she said.  Petrobras, rated BBB by Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings
Ltd., will have to rely more heavily on international debt
markets to meet its investment plan if it fails to sell assets,
Ana Paula Ares, an analyst at Fitch Ratings, said by phone from
 Buenos Aires .  The most indebted publicly traded oil company plans to
borrow $61 billion in the five years through 2017 to make $237
billion in investments to double domestic oil output to 4.2
million barrels a day and build new refineries.  Petrobras has lost investors 27 percent in the past 12
months in U.S.-dollar terms, the worst performance among  oil
companies  with a market value of at least $50 billion, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The Brazilian producer has the
fourth-lowest ratio of  price to estimated earnings  of the 18
companies, behind Russia’s  OAO Gazprom (GAZP) ,  OAO Lukoil (LKOH)  and  OAO
Rosneft. (ROSN)  Petrobras shares fell 1.6 percent to 18.79 reais at
4:03 p.m. in Sao Paulo.  Pre-Salt Auctions  Brazil plans to hold three oil and gas block auctions this
year, including exploration areas in the so-called pre-salt
region that holds the country’s biggest discoveries. Oil
producers including Royal Dutch Shell Plc, based in The Hague,
Norway’s  Statoil ASA (STL)  and France’s  Total SA (FP)  are preparing to
compete in the country’s first bid round since 2008, scheduled
for May 14 and May 15.  Large and medium-sized exploration companies from the U.S.
and Europe with decades of experience are more interested in
acquiring acreage in licensing rounds than blocks that hold
discovered deposits, said  Michael Wang , an analyst at IHS Herold
in Norwalk, Connecticut.  The main potential buyers for Petrobras’s Brazil assets are
Asian national companies more interested in securing discovered
resources than exploring uncharted areas, he said.  “You have a narrow set of buyers and not much interest
from Western majors,” Wang said in a phone interview.  Petrobras also has to compete with more sellers in the U.S.
where it failed to sell a group of assets to a single buyer,
Wang said.  Argentine Assets  Apache is weighing a sale of deep-water assets in the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico that may be worth as much as $3 billion, a person
familiar with the matter said March 7. ATP, the gulf producer
that filed for  bankruptcy protection  in August, plans to sell
stakes in 23 deep-water blocks where the value of underlying
resources may exceed $6 billion.  Petrobras is in talks over the sale of Argentine assets as
part of its divestment plan, Foster said yesterday, without
providing further details. Petrobras’s refinery in Pasadena,
California, was removed from the divestiture portfolio and
instead ways to make it more efficient are being studied
internally, she said.  Uncertain Timing  Petrobras controls  Petrobras Argentina SA (PESA) , which produces
and refines crude in Argentina.  Petrobras has 186 exploration blocks in the  Gulf of Mexico 
region and began production this year. The assets are worth as
much as $8 billion, Foster said Dec. 4.  “There are definitely more assets in the market right
now,” Wang said. “It might be difficult to find one buyer for
all its assets, but it might be easier to sell individual
assets.”  Last year Petrobras raised about $4 billion of the $14.8
billion in asset sales and restructuring it targeted in its
previous business plan, Foster said yesterday. It raised the
bulk of the funds by freeing up guaranteed resources at a
pension fund for company workers and recovering debt to the
electricity industry.  “We are not incorporating those asset divestitures as an
additional source of funding,” Fitch’s Ares said. “We know
that the company is in the process of divesting some assets, but
there is uncertainty over the timing.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Millard in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net ;
Rodrigo Orihuela in Rio De Janeiro at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net ;
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net  