-- Phillips 66 Signs Deals to Boost Oil Deliveries by Pipe, Rail
-- B y   E l i o t   C a r o o m
-- 2013-03-20T14:16:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/phillips-66-signs-deals-to-boost-oil-deliveries-by-pipe-rail.html
Phillips 66 (PSX)  will increase
deliveries of cheaper crudes to its refineries nationwide by as
much as 130,000 barrels a day under three transportation deals
and a new investment.  The steps announced by the company today are the latest in
a series of moves by Phillips to take advantage of rising North
American oil production, following rail-car and tanker-ship
orders and a 50,000-barrel-a-day deal with  Global Partners LP. (GLP)   “It solidifies the idea that if you’re a refinery bringing
in imported oil, you want to find a way to bring in shale oil
from the U.S.,” said Carl Larry, a commodities broker with
Houston-based Atlas Commodities LLC. “It just goes to show this
fracking drilling, and the supplies coming from it, is
increasing all the time.”  U.S.  crude output  will climb to an average 7.88 million
barrels a day in 2014, up 7.8 percent from 7.31 million this
year, the  Energy Information Administration , the Energy
Department’s statistical arm, said March 12 in its monthly
Short-Term Energy Outlook. Production next year will be up 22
percent from 6.47 million a day in 2012.  Phillips’s moves will bring a variety of U.S. and Canadian
crudes to refineries around the country via pipeline and rail.  A three-year deal with  Enbridge Energy Partners LP (EEP)  for
loading rail cars at Enbridge’s terminal in Berthold,  North
Dakota , will begin in May, ramping up to 35,000 to 45,000
barrels a day by November, with the Bakken crude delivered to
East and West Coast refineries. Some crude could also be sent to
the  Gulf Coast  for processing.  Targa Deal  A pact with  Targa Resources Partners LP (NGLS)  begun last year
will provide five years of rail-unloading and barge-loading
services in Tacoma, Washington, for U.S. and Canadian crudes.
The oil will go to the Ferndale, Washington, refinery, with
delivery capacity of about 30,000 barrels a day. Phillips’s
Rodeo refinery near  San Francisco  could also receive crude
deliveries, displacing imports from outside  North America .  A pipeline deal with  Magellan Midstream Partners LP (MMP)  will
move crude to near the Ponca City, Oklahoma, refinery, replacing
West Texas Intermediate from Cushing with oil from the
Mississippian Lime play. Magellan service will begin in late
2013, reaching full volume of 20,000 barrels a day by January
2014, Phillips said.  Phillips will also invest in its own Oklahoma assets to
transport an additional 40,000 barrels a day of Mississippian
Lime to Ponca City. Mississippian Lime crude comes from the
Anadarko Basin, which  spans Oklahoma and neighboring states . Two
new pipelines carrying the grade are planned to start service
this year, according to a  February EIA report .  “We are aggressively pursuing increased access to
advantaged crudes in North America by partnering with leading
third-party transportation providers and better leveraging our
own system capabilities,” Greg Garland, Phillips 66 chairman
and chief executive officer, said in the statement. “Increasing
our utilization of those advantaged crudes should allow us to
capture significant value in our refining and marketing
businesses.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eliot Caroom in  New York  at 
 ecaroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net  