-- Popolare Milano Gains After Higher Revenue, Governance Changes
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 2013-03-20T09:40:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/popolare-milano-gains-after-higher-revenue-governance-changes.html
Banca Popolare di Milano Scrl ,
 Italy ’s oldest cooperative bank, climbed the most in a week
after reporting better-than-expected revenue and announcing a
proposal to become a joint stock company.  Popolare di Milano rose as much as 5.2 percent and was up
4.7  percent  to 46.4 cents as of 10:28 a.m. in Milan trading.
That gave the Milan-based company a market value of 1.5 billion
euros ($1.93 billion).  Popolare di Milano’s  fourth-quarter loss  narrowed to 325
million euros from 670 million euros a year earlier, the bank
said in a statement late yesterday. Revenue advanced 29 percent
to 383 million euros, boosted by higher income from trading and
fees. That helped counter a 17 percent increase in bad-loan
provisions to 357 million euros.  “The pre-provision operating profit trends are encouraging
as the net interest income held up well, whereas many Italian
peers disappointed, and costs were under tight control,” Jean- Francois Neuez and Willis Palermo, analysts at Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. wrote in a note today.  The board approved yesterday a proposal to transform the
bank into a joint-stock company from a cooperative bank.  “In 2012, the bank started a process to turn the group
around,” Chairman  Andrea Bonomi  wrote in the statement. “The
project to change the bank’s governance is the natural
destination of the path we started a year and a half ago.”  The board will make the proposal, including the
cancellation of the per capita vote system, the distribution of
10 percent of capital to employees for free and the setup of a
foundation to support employees and their families, to an
extraordinary shareholder meeting. The bank also approved a 500
million-euro capital increase to repay state aid received in
2009.  Popolare di Milano’s timetable for governance changes and
the capital increase is “excellent news,” Giovanni Razzoli, a
Milan-based analyst at Equita Sim SpA, said in a today report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net 
Francesca Cinelli at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  