-- Portuguese Insurers to Buy More Corporate Bonds as Crisis Eases
-- B y   A n a b e l a   R e i s
-- 2013-03-20T14:22:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/portuguese-insurers-to-buy-more-corporate-bonds-as-crisis-eases.html
Portuguese insurers  may invest more
in the corporate debt market after the crisis in  Europe  subsided
and yields on sovereign bonds declined, an industry group said.  “If there’s stability in Europe, it’s natural that the
drop in sovereign debt yields will lead to a higher tendency to
invest in corporate bonds,” Pedro Seixas Vale, president of the
 Portuguese Insurers Association , said in an interview at the
group’s headquarters in Lisbon yesterday.  Portugal ’s firms are lining up to issue debt after the
country sold 2.5 billion euros ($3.2 billion) of five-year bonds
in January, the first sale since it requested a bailout in 2011,
say lenders including  Banco Espirito Santo SA (BES) , the country’s
biggest by market value. The yield on  10-year bonds  dropped by a
percentage point so far this year, trading at 6.2 percent today.  Investments in corporate bonds by the Portuguese insurance
industry dropped 1.4 percent to 19.6 billion euros last year, as
firms bought more sovereign debt, the association said. Still,
purchases of corporate bonds as a percentage of total bond
investments were greater than for sovereign bonds, it said.  Seixas Vale said investment in Portuguese sovereign debt by
insurers will stabilize in the next few years. The amount
totalled about 9 billion euros last year, close to 70 percent of
total investment in sovereign debt globally, according to the
associations’ figures. Spanish and Italian bonds were the next
preferred choice among sovereign debt, he said.  Profit at Portuguese insurers rose to 541.5 million euros
in 2012 from 10.2 million euros a year earlier after gains from
debt holdings, according to provisional data from the country’s
insurance association. Profit in life insurance rose to 740
million euros from a loss of 65 million euros in 2011, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anabela Reis in Lisbon at 
 areis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  