-- Port Hedland Has ‘Use It or Lose It’ Capacity of Iron Ore
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2013-03-20T08:18:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/port-hedland-has-use-it-or-lose-it-capacity-of-iron-ore.html
Port Hedland , the world’s biggest
bulk export terminal, said  iron ore  shipping allocations are
made on a “use it or lose it” basis.  “Harbor capacity is tight,” Roger Johnston, chief
executive officer of Port Hedland Port Authority, said today in
an interview in Perth. “There is no more ability to build other
infrastructure. You can’t let people sit on it.”  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ,  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. (FMG)  and  Atlas
Iron Ltd. (AGO)  export ore through the port in Western Australia, with
all three planning to expand shipments. Billionaire  Gina Rinehart ’s Roy Hill Holdings Pty and North-West Infrastructure,
including Atlas and Brockman Resources Ltd., also hold rights to
develop berths.  The principle for allocation is “use it or lose it,” said
Johnston. “If you’re unable to use it on terms and conditions
that have applied against that, then it comes back to the
port.”  Port Hedland  shipped 247 million metric tons in fiscal
2012, up 24 percent from the previous year. Shipments are
expected to rise to 285 million tons during fiscal 2013,
Johnston said, reaching 495 million tons by 2017.  The port’s inner harbor is fully allocated with a maximum
of 495 million tons capacity after Western Australia state in
August approved two new port berths for BHP’s iron-ore exports.
The new berths were allocated two days after the world’s largest
mining company shelved plans for a potential new outer harbor,
estimated to cost $22 billion.  The inner-harbor berths don’t guarantee BHP, the world’s
third-biggest iron-ore shipper, will be able to boost its
capacity beyond its current allocation of 240 million tons of
the raw material a year, the Melbourne-based company said in
August. Iron ore is BHP’s most profitable  unit , and  Australia ’s
most valuable  export .  Mining companies maintain rights to current and future
berths if they are acquired, Johnston said.  “An allocation is vested in an entity,” he said. “If
that entity changes hands there’s not a lot a port can do.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  