-- Pound Gains as BOE Minutes Reveal Concern on Stimulus Impact
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2013-03-20T11:56:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/pound-little-changed-before-boe-minutes-osborne-budget-speech.html
The pound rose for the first time
in three days against the dollar after minutes of the  Bank of
England ’s most recent policy meeting showed a majority of policy
makers said more bond purchases may erode their credibility.  Sterling pared its drop versus the euro as the minutes
revealed most of the nine-member Monetary Policy Committee said
more quantitative easing “might also lead to an unwarranted
depreciation of sterling.” Gilts fell before Chancellor of the
Exchequer  George Osborne  unveils his budget for the fiscal year
ending March 2014. A government report showed jobless claims
fell less than economists predicted last month.  “The comments were more of a surprise than the actual
vote,” said  Neil Jones , head of European hedge fund sales at
Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. in  London . “It’s the first time
we’ve seen verbal intervention in support of sterling in the
past few years. This could be a nail in the coffin for further
quantitative easing.”  The pound gained 0.1 percent to $1.5119 at 11:53 a.m.
London time after weakening as much as 0.5 percent. Sterling was
little changed at 85.41 pence per euro, reversing a 0.6 percent
decline to 85.81 pence. It climbed to 85.05 pence yesterday, the
strongest level since Feb. 11.  Bank of  England  policy makers voted 6-3 to keep the target
for asset purchases at 375 billion pounds, according to minutes
of the March 6-7 meeting published today. King,  David Miles  and
 Paul Fisher  voted for a 25 billion-pound increase.  The same three had similarly voted to boost the target at
last month’s gathering, according to the minutes of that meeting
released on Feb. 20. Officials said then they “stand ready” to
increase the program.  Osborne Budget  Sterling has weakened 7 percent against the greenback this
year amid speculation the central bank will boost asset
purchases to revive the economy and counter the impact of
Osborne’s austerity measures. Policy makers last increased the
target in July, boosting it by 50 billion pounds.  Osborne will unveil his budget in an address to lawmakers
amid speculation he will loosen the central bank’s mandate on
inflation targets.  After his speech, the Debt Management Office will announce
funding needs for the next fiscal year. The median forecast from
19 of 21 primary dealers that trade directly with the debt
agency was 161 billion pounds in a Bloomberg News survey, down
from 164.2 billion pounds planned for the current fiscal year.  Jobless Claims  “It is actually very likely that they change a bit the
remit,” Guillermo Felices, head of European  asset allocation  at
Barclays, and a former Bank of England economist, said on
Bloomberg Television’s “On the Move” with  Francine Lacqua .
“That will help the MPC in terms of paving the way for more QE,
but we don’t expect anything radical.”  Ten-year gilt yields rose seven basis points, or 0.07
percentage point, to 1.90 percent after falling 14 basis points
in the previous four days. The 1.75 percent security due in
September 2022 gained 0.56, or 5.60 pounds per 1,000-pound face
amount, to 99.75.  Jobless  claims  fell by 1,500 following a revised 10,000
decline in January, the  Office for National Statistics  in London
said today. The median forecast of 27 economists in a Bloomberg
survey was for a drop of 5,000.  U.K. government bonds returned 1.2 percent this month
through yesterday, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg
and the European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.
German bunds rose 0.7 percent and Treasuries lost 0.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at   pdobson2@bloomberg.net . 