-- Colorado Tightens Gun Restrictions Amid Hunt for Killer
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   O l d h a m ,   A m a n d a   J .   C r a w f o r d   a n d   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 2013-03-21T04:36:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/prisons-chief-shot-dead-as-colorado-poised-to-tighten-gun-laws.html
Colorado  begins the task of
implementing its toughest gun laws in a decade even as police
searched for a suspect, and a motive, in the shooting death of
the state’s top prisons official.  Governor John Hickenlooper signed bills requiring
 background checks  on gun buyers and a ban on high-capacity
ammunition  magazines  yesterday about 12 hours after Tom
Clements, 58, was shot to death when he answered the door at his
home north of Colorado Springs.  “Everybody got their guns out” after word of the killing
shortly before 9 p.m. began to spread, said neighbor Mary Ann
Drexler. While her family usually keeps a shotgun locked away,
she said, “we slept with our gun in the bedroom.”  The Clements shooting illustrated why the bills, fiercely
opposed by gun-rights advocates, were necessary, said
Hickenlooper, 61. In a televised news briefing, the first-term
Democrat said the killing, while not appearing to be connected
with the new laws, was “an act of intimidation.”  With the stricter controls, which reflect two of President
 Barack Obama ’s key policy goals, Colorado joins New York as the
second state to enact tough legislation following the deaths of
12 people in an Aurora, Colorado, movie theater last year and
the Dec. 14 shootings of 20 schoolchildren and six educators in
Newtown,  Connecticut ’s Sandy Hook Elementary School.  “What we have signed today are several bills that
materially make our state safer and allow us to begin to address
some of these issues head on,” Hickenlooper told reporters
yesterday. Both take effect July 1.  Forested Subdivision  The Clements shooting occurred in a forested subdivision
with views of Pikes Peak about 50 miles south of Denver, near
the town of Monument. The neighborhood of winding roads and two-
acre lots is known as Bent Tree. The home isn’t visible from the
street.  The El Paso County Sheriff’s Office said in a statement it
received a 911 call at 8:47 p.m. on March 19 reporting a
shooting at the Clements residence.  “We are sensitive to the high profile position in which
Mr. Clements served and the fact there could be people who would
target him based on his position,” the office said. “However,
we remain open minded to all investigative possibilities.”  An unoccupied car, with the motor running, was seen by a
neighbor near the Clements home about 15 minutes before the 911
call, the sheriff’s office said. It was gone a few minutes
later. The vehicle was described as a black or dark late-model,
two-door similar to a 1990s Lincoln.  The sheriff’s office was joined in the investigation by the
FBI and the U.S. Marshals Service.  ‘Decent, Ethical’  Hickenlooper appointed Clements executive director of the
Corrections Department in 2011, after 31 years working in the
 Missouri  prison system.  He started his career in 1979 as a parole officer, became
chief probation officer and later supervised all of Missouri’s
prisons, said George Lombardi, the director of the department.  “Tom was a very decent, ethical, kind person,” Lombardi
said in a telephone interview.  Clements is survived by his wife, Lisa, and their two
daughters, Rachel and Sara, Hickenlooper said in a statement.  His death comes at a time of ferment in gun-control
politics in the nation and the state, where -- in addition to
the Aurora massacre -- 15 people died in a 1999 attack at
Columbine High School near Denver.  600 Bills  More than 600 gun-related bills have been introduced in
U.S. states this year, a 63 percent increase compared with the
same period last year, the San Francisco-based Law Center to
Prevent Gun Violence said in a statement.  Colorado is one of 17 states that have introduced measures
in 2013 to ban or strengthen existing restrictions on large-
capacity ammunition magazines, and it is one of 16 to introduce
legislation on background checks, the group said.  Hickenlooper released a statement after the bill-signing
seeking to clarify the new law that outlaws any ammunition
magazine manufactured or purchased after July 1 that is capable,
or can be converted to accept, more than 15 rounds.  “Similar language is used in other states’ statutes
limiting large-capacity magazines,” the governor said. “We
know that magazine manufacturers have produced and sell
magazines that comply with these other state laws that limit
large capacity magazines and we are aware of no successful legal
challenges to those laws.”  Law Ambiguous  Colorado sheriffs and hunters contend the law is ambiguous
and could be construed to outlaw all magazines. The ammunition
limit “bans a broader class of firearms and firearm accessories
than the bill sponsors intended,” wrote Jonathan M. Anderson,
an attorney for Holland & Hart on behalf of Erie, Colorado-based
Magpul Industries Corp. in a March 15 letter to Hickenlooper.  “HB 1224, as written, would be one of the most expansive
gun bills implemented in the United States,” Anderson wrote
before the signing, asking the governor to veto the bill.
Magpul, Colorado’s largest firearm-accessories maker, has
threatened to leave the state if the measure was enacted.  Republicans fought the proposals, saying they were overly
broad, did nothing to improve safety and infringed on Second
Amendment rights.  Rocky Mountain Gun Owners, a Windsor, Colorado-based
advocacy group, wrote to supporters in an e-mail that it “is
going to need your help in repealing these draconian laws.”  “Make sure you stay updated with us as we unveil the plan
for the 2014 elections with our PAC later this week,” it said,
referring to its political-action committee. “Then, make sure
you stay involved as we work to retire the gun-grabbers at the
capitol.”  ‘Non-Negotiable’  El Paso County Sheriff Terry Maketa, whose office is in
charge of the Clements investigation, has said he opposes gun
restrictions because the Second Amendment is “non-negotiable.”  “It is very disturbing to witness so many that have taken
the same oath I have, to now flip flop and use tragedies such as
the Sandy Hook school shooting to further their personal agenda
and very flawed thought process,” he wrote in an essay on his
website before the shooting.  Debra Reed, a spokeswoman for the Washington-based Brady
Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence, said the Clements killing
proved why such laws are crucial.  “This is incredibly sad irony that this has taken place
less than 24 hours before the governor planned to sign
meaningful gun legislation,” she said. “There is no better
illustration of what damage guns can do in the wrong hands.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer Oldham in Denver at 
 joldham1@bloomberg.net ;
Amanda J. Crawford in Phoenix at 
 acrawford24@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Niquette in Columbus  at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  