-- Private Banks Sell Debt in Worst Quarter Since ’11: China Credit
-- B y   R a c h e l   E v a n s   a n d   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2013-03-21T03:47:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/private-banks-sell-debt-in-worst-quarter-since-11-china-credit.html
Chinese high-yield dollar-denominated bonds are returning the least in more than a year as
private banks react to a flood of debt supply and rising global
 interest rates  by cutting holdings.  Investors have gained 2.24 percent from the notes since
Dec. 31, poised for the worst quarter since the three months
ended September 2011, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
indexes. Globally,  junk bonds  have returned 2.47 percent, the
data show. Coutts & Co. is advising clients to shift into stocks
and trim corporate debt holdings.  China ’s dollar bond rally started to falter in January as
mainland and Hong Kong borrowers sold almost seven times more
undated or unrated debt than a month earlier. Demand has also
dropped as the benchmark 10-year Treasury yield rose to an 11-month high, China announced a crackdown on borrowing for
property investment and a solar panel maker sought a delay in
repaying its overseas debt.  “There are some indigestion problems from large new
issuances and Chinese tightening measures,” said Ryan Tsai,
senior investment strategist for greater China at Coutts. “Last
year, a lot of our clients were heavily overweight on credits.
Our caution now basically means we are urging them to have a
more balanced portfolio.”  Hong Kong-based Tsai sees bonds falling one to two cents on
the dollar in “profit-taking” rather than a “major
correction” of more than 5 cents. Coutts manages 28.9 billion
pounds ($43.8 billion) as the private banking arm of Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc.  Declining Appetite  Asian corporate high-yield notes are vulnerable to falling
appetite among private banks, which now hold 30 percent of the
securities, according to Barclays Plc estimates. Compounding the
risks, institutional investors are avoiding some unrated issuers
such as those that leverage their brand names to raise funds,
according to AllianceBernstein  Hong Kong  Ltd.  “Private banks, who had been the big buyers, during
February found a level where supply finally met demand,”
according to Hayden Briscoe, a director in the Asia-Pacific
fixed income team at the asset manager. “People were then
exiting on concerns that interest rates in the U.S. will rise.”  Climbing interest rates in the U.S. have burnished the
appeal of safe-haven Treasuries compared with riskier assets.
Yields on the benchmark 10-year U.S. notes reached  2.08 percent 
on March 8, the highest since April last year. Emerging market
funds in hard currencies, such as dollars, were “struggling”
to attract cash in the week ending March 13, according to EPFR
Global.  Worst Performers  More than a quarter of the record $18.9 billion of all
notes sold by Chinese and Hong Kong companies this year was
unrated and 82 percent of this debt lost money as of March 18,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Ungraded notes sold by  Cheung Kong Holdings Ltd. (1) , Agile
Property Holdings Ltd. and Champion Real Estate Investment Trust
are the three worst-performing new issues this year. Private
banks bought 60 percent of the ungraded securities sold by
Cheung Kong, the worst performer. The developer is controlled by
 Asia ’s richest man  Li Ka-shing .  The proportion of unrated issuance by Chinese and Hong Kong
borrowers has risen to 25 percent this year, amid the record
overall sales, from less than 20 percent last year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  High Supply  Excessive supply was the main cause of the relatively weak
performance of Chinese dollar notes as real-estate controls
dragged down sentiment, according to Luc Froehlich, a fixed-income director at Manulife Asset Management Asia. The slump was
compounded by “the lower quality of some issuers, as well as
the weaker structure of some deals such as the perpetual bonds
that targeted private bank clients,” he said.  The Chinese authorities this month ordered stricter
enforcement of taxes on house sales, along with higher down
payments and interest rates for second-home mortgages in cities
with “excessively fast” price gains. New home prices posted
the broadest advance since December 2011 last month, a test for
new Premier Li Keqiang as he seeks to prevent a bubble without
slowing growth.  China’s economy  is likely to expand 8.1 percent
this year, according to the median estimate of 46 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Better Earnings  The earnings of most rated corporates are on track to
recover from 2012 lows, supported in part by a rebound in the
domestic economy, according to a report from Moody’s Investors
Service dated March 18. Investment in public infrastructure and
stabilization in the  property market  should boost growth, the
report said.  “We invest in the safer, bigger property companies where
we have overweight ratings, but we’re underweight on the risky
ones,” Hans Stoter, who helps oversee about 183 billion euros
($236 billion) of fixed-income assets as chief investment
officer at ING Investment Management Co., said in an interview
in Taipei this week.  Eight Chinese banks filed a petition for insolvency and
restructuring of the main manufacturing unit of Suntech Power
Holdings Co., once the world’s top solar maker. The company said
it won’t object to the filing in Wuxi Municipal Intermediate
People’s Court. Suntech received a notice of default from the
trustee administering its convertible bonds, which matured March
15, according to a statement on March 18. It said March 11 that
about 60 percent of bondholders had agreed to wait until May 15
before exercising their rights.  “We don’t see a systemic kind of defaults, it’s more
centered on specific issuers and the new-energy sector hasn’t
been performing well and the government doesn’t seem to have an
unlimited support for that sector,” Coutts’ Tsai said.  Developer Prices  Rated debt from developers  Kaisa Group Holdings Ltd. (1638) ,
Country Garden Holdings Co. and Central China Real Estate Ltd.
was trading at more than 102 cents on the dollar, up from par,
as of March 18, Bloomberg prices show. While all bonds sold in
January lost money as of Feb. 5, 38 percent of notes sold this
year are now above their issue price, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  The cost of insuring China’s debt against non-payment with
credit-default swaps is little changed this year at 67 basis
points from 66 on Dec. 31, according to data provider CMA, which
is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by
dealers in the privately negotiated market. The  yuan  slipped
0.02 percent to 6.2133 per dollar as of 9:54 a.m. in  Shanghai ,
prices from China Foreign Exchange Trade System show. It touched
6.2113 yesterday, the strongest level since the government
unified the official and market rates at the end of 1993.  Rated Sales  Yields on China’s benchmark 10-year government bonds are
unchanged this year at  3.58 percent . The yields on similar-maturity top-rated corporate bonds have fallen 12 basis points
to 5.17 percent, narrowing the spread to 159.  Even as their bond performance slumps, Chinese borrowers
are testing the waters for further issuance. China Minzhong Food
Corp. scheduled investor meetings for this week to discuss a
planned sale of dollar-denominated notes, according to a
statement to the Singapore stock exchange dated March 18.
Tianneng Power International Ltd. is also looking to sell rated
dollar securities, a person with knowledge of the matter said
March 19.  While investors remain prepared to buy even lower-rated
notes as long as the securities compensate fairly for the risk,
they’ve become more cautious with structures that lack set
maturity dates and other assurances, according to Mark Reade, a
Hong Kong-based credit desk analyst at Credit Agricole CIB.  “Investors are shying away from weak structures, which
accounts for the performance of  Cheung Kong  and Agile’s
perpetuals, as well as lesser-known credits such as Champion,”
he said.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rachel Evans in Hong Kong at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net ;
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  