-- Obama ‘Deeply Skeptical’ of Syrian Chemical-Weapon Claim
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2013-03-21T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/questions-on-syria-chemical-weapons-spur-call-for-probe.html
President  Barack Obama  said the
U.S. was “deeply skeptical” of Syrian government claims that
rebel forces had used chemical weapons as the United Nations
faces calls to investigate possible use of deadly gas.  Obama also made clear that while he had serious
reservations about the regime’s charges, the use of chemical
arms in the conflict would be a “game changer” and required
fact-gathering. The UN has been asked by Syria and Western
nations to investigate conflicting accounts of two attacks.  “Everybody who knows the facts of the chemical weapon
stockpiles inside of Syria as well as the Syrian government’s
capabilities, I think, would question those claims,” Obama said
yesterday on the first day of his visit to Israel. “We intend
to investigate thoroughly exactly what happened.”  The risk of chemical-weapons use raises the stakes in the
two-year-old civil war. Obama has said that Bashar al-Assad’s
regime would cross a “red line” if it unleashed its chemical
weapons arsenal -- the region’s largest.  Clouding the UN’s decision-making is a chorus of divergent
versions of events. Syrian authorities blame the rebels for
launching a rocket laden with chemicals in the Khan al-Assal
area in Aleppo province, killing 25 people. The opposition said
government forces were responsible and accused Assad’s forces of
a second chemical attack in the suburbs of Damascus.  Both sides have called on UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon
to send a team of investigators. Western governments including
the U.S., the U.K. and France are backing the rebels while
Russia is supporting the Assad regime, underlining deep splits
in the international community over what steps to take to stop
hostilities from escalating.  Unclear Facts  “The facts need to be clarified,” U.K. Deputy Ambassador
to the UN Philip Parham told reporters in New York yesterday.
There have been “so many falsehoods and distortions” by the
Syrian regime.  Ban has the ability to work around the impasse at the UN
Security Council by deciding whether to send a fact-finding
mission. In 1984, UN chemical warfare experts went to verify
Iranian claims that Iraq had used chemical weapons in the
conflict between the two nations. Ban has said use of chemical
weapons under any circumstances would constitute an “outrageous
crime.”  Russia, Syria’s primary arms supplier, has backed the Assad
government’s allegations and wants an investigation of only the
incident near Aleppo, not the one in Damascus.  “Instead of launching those propaganda balloons, I think
that it’s much better to get our focus right and I hope this is
what the secretary general is doing,” Russian envoy Vitaly Churkin told reporters yesterday.  Western Debate  Behind the war of words lies a debate among Western powers
on whether and how to weigh in more forcefully to end a crisis
that has killed more than 70,000 people, spurred a refugee
exodus that threatens to destabilize neighboring Jordan and
Lebanon, and increased the threat of chemical arms falling into
the wrong hands as chaos spreads.  Britain has said it will supply armored vehicles and body
armor for the opposition. France said it may act alone to arm
the rebels.  While Syria’s government has produced, stored, and
weaponized chemical arms, “little is known from open sources”
about the stockpile’s size and condition, the nonpartisan U.S.
Congressional Research Service said in a report in December.  Assad’s regime has been reported to have stocks of nerve
and blister agents such as sarin, VX and mustard gas.  Details about any of the attacks are hard to confirm in a
country where outside verification is virtually impossible. A UN
team of monitors departed Syria last year, unable to leave their
hotels or keep track of the abuses committed on the ground.  Syrian Opposition  The Syrian opposition -- which just elected a new interim
prime minister, Ghassan Hitto -- has accused Assad’s forces of
using chemical agents before, most recently on Dec. 23. There
have been no confirmed cases, and it wasn’t determined whether
such allegations referred to deadly nerve agents such as sarin
gas or nonlethal crowd-control irritants such as tear gas.  Robert Ford, the U.S. ambassador to Syria, told a House of
Representatives committee yesterday that the Obama
administration hasn’t seen any evidence of use of nerve agents
in the conflict.  “So far we have no evidence to substantiate the reports
that chemical weapons were used yesterday, but I want to
underline that we are looking very carefully at these reports,”
Ford told the foreign affairs committee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in United Nations at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  