-- Treasuries Decline Before Fed Decision Amid Turmoil in Cyprus
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   N e a l   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-03-20T12:43:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/treasury-futures-remain-higher-before-fed-concludes-meeting.html
Treasuries fell for the first time
in four days before the  Federal Reserve  ends a policy meeting
amid speculation the central bank will maintain its bond-buying
program, underpinning demand for higher-yielding assets.  Benchmark  10-year yields  climbed from a two-week low
reached yesterday as the  European Central Bank  said it would
provide liquidity to Cyprus as needed within its rules, easing
concern the euro-area debt crisis will worsen. The  Federal Open
Market Committee  will release forecasts for its benchmark
 interest rate , along with other projections today, at the same
time as its statement.  “It’s been the week of Cyprus,” said Justin Lederer, an
interest-rate strategist at Cantor Fitzgerald LP in New York,
one of the 21 primary dealers that trade with the Fed. “That’s
the key driver, and going into the afternoon it will be the
FOMC. There’s a little bit more confidence that something will
be reached. Treasuries are getting hit a little bit.”  Ten-year  yields  rose four basis points, or 0.04 percentage
point, to 1.94 percent at 8:35 a.m. in New York, according to
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 2 percent note maturing in
February 2023 dropped 10/32, or $3.13 per $1,000 face amount, to
100 18/32. The yields slid to 1.89 percent yesterday, the lowest
level since March 5.  Quarterly Decline  Treasuries lost 0.4 percent this year through yesterday,
poised for the biggest quarterly decline since the three months
ended March 2012, according to a Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  of shares returned 9.1
percent, including reinvested dividends.  U.S. government securities today dropped from the costliest
level in two weeks. The 10-year term premium, a model that
includes expectations for  interest rates , growth and inflation,
was at negative 0.69 percent, after touching negative .71
percent yesterday, the most expensive since March 5. A negative
reading indicates investors are willing to accept yields below
what’s considered fair value.  “You may see buyers on dips,” said Jason Rogan, director
of U.S. government trading at Guggenheim Partners LLC, a New
York-based brokerage for institutional investors. “The market
will continue to be concerned with tape bombs coming out of
 Europe . Most people will expect the Fed to remain dovish.”  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will probably start reducing the
Fed’s $85 billion in monthly bond buying no earlier than the
fourth quarter of 2013, economists said in a Bloomberg survey.  Fed Outlook  The Fed will halt its unprecedented easing in the first
half of next year after expanding central bank assets to a
record of about $4 trillion, according to median estimates by 46
economists surveyed March 13-18 before the two-day meeting of
policy makers ends today. Unemployment will have fallen to 7.3
percent from its current 7.7 percent when the Fed starts to pull
back on its buying, the economists said.  The Federal Open Market Committee plans to release a
statement at 2 p.m. today in  Washington  and Bernanke is
scheduled to hold a press conference at 2:30 p.m.  Ten-year yields dropped one basis point to 1.99 percent
following the previous Fed announcement on Jan. 30, when policy
makers pledged to keep purchasing securities at the rate of $85
billion a month.  Bernanke will ultimately buy a total of $600 billion in
mortgage bonds and $545 billion in Treasuries in the round of
bond buying that began in September, according to the median of
responses in the March 13-18 survey.  U.S. reports tomorrow will show purchases of  existing homes 
rose to a 5 million annual rate, the most since November 2009,
according to a Bloomberg News survey of economists. Figures from
the Commerce Department yesterday showed permits for future  home
construction  climbed to the highest since June 2008.  Faster Growth  Laurence D. Fink, chief executive officer of BlackRock
Inc., the world’s largest asset manager, said he sees faster
growth in the world’s largest economy.  “If anything, we have migrated our view to a little
higher” than the 2.5 percent-plus growth estimate, Fink said in
a Bloomberg Television interview in  Hong Kong . “If it wasn’t
for Washington and the uncertainty that Washington has created,
we’ll probably be navigating closer to 4 percent.”  Treasuries advanced yesterday after Cypriot lawmakers
rejected an unprecedented levy on  bank deposits , threatening to
derail a bailout for the nation.  Luxembourg Finance Minister Luc Frieden called for the 17
euro-area finance ministers to reconvene “as soon as possible”
to formulate a new package for the country. The ECB, whose
Governing Council meets today in  Frankfurt , will have to decide
whether to give Cyprus more time or consider cutting off
liquidity to the country’s banks.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in  New York  at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Neal Armstrong in London at 
 narmstrong8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  