-- Treasuries Fall First Time in Four Days as Fed to Keep Buying
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2013-03-20T21:12:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/treasuries-drop-first-time-in-four-days-as-fed-sustains-stimulus.html
Treasuries dropped for the first
time in four days as the  Federal Reserve  reiterated its
commitment to asset purchases to spur economic growth,
sustaining demand for higher-yielding assets.  The  difference  in yields between inflation-protected  U.S.
debt  and 10-year notes increased to 2.55 percentage points as
policy makers said the jobless rate remains “elevated” and the
Fed will keep buying $85 billion of bonds a month. Yields rose
earlier as Cyprus weighed options on how to secure a bailout
package after rejecting a levy on bank deposits, lessening the
refuge appeal of  U.S. government debt .  “It’s steady as she goes,” said Richard Schlanger, a vice
president at Pioneer Investments in  Boston , who’s a member of a
group managing $20 billion in fixed-income securities. “The Fed
is concerned that there are deeply embedded problems, and that’s
why they’re willing to continue to provide this accommodation.”  Ten-year note  yields climbed six basis points, or 0.06
percentage point, to 1.96 percent at 5 p.m.  New York  time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. They touched 1.89
percent yesterday, the lowest level since March 5. Yields have
closed between 1.9 percent and 2.06 percent since March 5. The
price of the 2 percent security due in February 2023 dropped
1/2, or $5 per $1,000 face amount, to 100 3/8.  Thirty-year bond  yields increased seven basis points to 3.2
percent after falling yesterday to 3.11 percent.  Volume Drops  Trading  volume  fell 21 percent to $281 billion, its first
drop in three days, according to ICAP Plc, the largest inter-
dealer broker of U.S. government debt. The average daily volume
for the past year is $247 billion.  “Labor market conditions have shown signs of improvement
in recent months but the  unemployment rate  remains elevated,”
the  Federal Open Market Committee  said today at the end a two-
day meeting in  Washington . Recent data suggest “a return to
moderate economic growth following a pause late last year.”  Stocks rose, with the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
approaching a record high.  “The firming of the data has been reflected in the
statement, but they are very clear that they haven’t reached
their target and they will stay very accommodative,” said
Jennifer Vail, head of fixed-income research in  Minneapolis  at
U.S. Bank Wealth Management, which oversees $110 billion.  Fed officials forecast the jobless rate will hit their
threshold for raising  interest rates  sometime in 2015, while
projecting faster improvement in the labor market this year.  Fed Projections  They predicted the jobless rate will average 6.7 percent to
7 percent in the final quarter of 2014 and 6 percent to 6.5
percent in 2015, according to their central-tendency estimates.
The economy will expand 2.3 percent to 2.8 percent this year,
they estimated, compared with their earlier forecast of 2.3
percent to 3 percent growth.  Bill Gross , who runs the world’s biggest bond fund at
Pacific Investment Management Co. in  Newport Beach ,  California ,
wrote on Twitter that “tapering of Fed purchases appears sooner
than year-end although dependent on continuing strength of labor
market indicators.”  The Fed left unchanged its statement that it plans to hold
its  target interest rate  near zero as long as unemployment
remains above 6.5 percent and inflation is projected to be no
more than 2.5 percent.  “The Fed is going to remain on hold in terms of interest-
rate hikes longer than we thought,” said Tom Graff, who manages
$3.6 billion of fixed-income assets at Brown Advisory Inc. in
Baltimore. “Yields in five- to seven-years will probably drop
relative to the two-year note.”  Twos, Sevens  The  difference  between two- and seven-year Treasury yields
was 1.07 percentage points today, down from 1.17 percentage
points on March 11. Expectations for the Fed to hold borrowing
costs near zero for a longer period would lead traders to narrow
the gap, Graff said.  The Fed said its monthly bond purchases will remain divided
between $40 billion of mortgage-backed securities and $45
billion of Treasuries. The purchases will continue until “the
outlook for the labor market has improved substantially in a
context of  price stability ,” it said.  The objective of the buying, under the quantitative-easing
stimulus strategy, is to drive investors to higher-risk assets
and avoid deflation.  Economists in a Bloomberg News survey forecast before the
meeting that the Fed won’t slow the pace of its buying until at
least the fourth quarter. The current round of purchases will
total $1.15 trillion by the program’s conclusion, according to
the median estimate in the poll of 46 economists.  Gained Traction  Treasuries have lost 0.1 percent in March as the  U.S.
economy  gained traction, paring February’s 0.6 percent return, a
Bank of America Merrill Lynch index showed.  Ten-year yields reached an 11-month high of 2.08 percent on
March 8 after the Labor Department said U.S. employers added
236,000 jobs last month, beating a Bloomberg survey’s median
forecast for a gain of 165,000. Payrolls have increased by an
average of 205,000 jobs a month since November. The  jobless rate 
was 7.7 percent last month, versus 10 percent in October 2009.  Consumer prices rose 2 percent last month from a year
earlier, a separate government report showed last week.  The yield gap between 10-year Treasury Inflation Protected
Securities and nominal U.S. notes, called the 10-year  break-even 
rate, signals traders’ outlook for consumer prices over the life
of the debt. It closed at 2.51 percentage points on Feb. 26 and
averaged 2.36 percentage points over the past year.  Treasuries declined earlier as euro-area leaders and
Cypriot officials considered alternatives after the
Mediterranean nation rejected an unprecedented levy on  bank
deposits  that’s a condition for a European Union-led bailout.  President Nicos Anastasiades of Cyprus met advisers in
Nicosia to draft a new plan to stave off financial collapse.  Stocks gained amid speculation that the  European Central
Bank  will continue to support Cyprus’s banks until next week,
easing concern the turmoil will worsen  Europe ’s three-year-old
sovereign-debt crisis.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  