-- Trichet Sees Limits on BOJ’s Role in Driving Japanese Expansion
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-20T03:13:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/trichet-sees-limits-on-boj-s-role-in-driving-japanese-expansion.html
 Jean-Claude Trichet, the former
European Central Bank president, said he sees limits on the role
Japan’s central bank can play in driving a growth revival.  “What counts are structural reforms,” and the  Bank of
Japan (8301)  can’t shoulder too much responsibility, Trichet said in a
Bloomberg Television interview at the Credit Suisse Asian
Investment Conference in Hong Kong today. “The problem with
Japan in my opinion is really demographics. Demographics are a
big, big, big problem.”  Japan’s new central bank Governor Haruhiko Kuroda, who
officially starts in the role today, has pledged more-aggressive
monetary stimulus to spur growth and end entrenched deflation in
the world’s third-biggest economy. He faces obstacles including
an aging population, an elevated reliance on energy imports
because of nuclear-plant shutdowns and restrictions on labor-
market flexibility.  Trichet said he has “a lot of respect” for Kuroda’s
predecessor, Masaaki Shirakawa, who ended his tenure by
reasserting that boosting the supply of money won’t be enough to
end deflation. Trichet, 70, headed the ECB from 2003 to 2011 and
was succeeded by Mario Draghi, who last July pledged to do
“whatever it takes” to defend the euro. Kuroda has made a
similar vow to counter Japan’s deflation.  The yen is down about 9 percent this year against the
dollar, largely because of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s pledges
for monetary easing. The currency traded at 95 per dollar as of
11:28 a.m. in Tokyo. Japan’s stock market is closed today for a
holiday.  “There is no link between the monetary base and growth in
consumer prices,” Shirakawa said yesterday in his final press
conference in Tokyo. “Monetary policy of course has a role, but
it’s necessary for a wide range of institutions to make efforts
to boost competitiveness and growth potential.”  Kuroda said last week he wants to look at additional
stimulus “soon,” and academic Kikuo Iwata, taking one of the
two deputy governor positions, has pushed for expanding the
supply of money in the economy.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Scott Lanman in Beijing at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net ;
 Susan Li  in Hong Kong at 
 sli31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  