-- Rinehart Iron Ore Mine to Complete A$7 Billion Debt End-2013
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2013-03-20T04:37:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/rinehart-s-iron-ore-mine-to-complete-a-7-billion-debt-end-2013.html
Roy Hill Holdings Pty, Australian
billionaire  Gina Rinehart ’s unit that’s seeking to raise A$7
billion ($7.3 billion) in debt to build an iron ore mine, said
it expects to complete funding by the end of the year.  The funding will come from export credit agencies and
commercial banks, Barry Fitzgerald, chief executive officer at
Roy Hill, said today in an interview in Perth. The company is
also open to selling more equity stakes, he reiterated.  “There is an assessment and a willingness by the ECAs to
lend money for projects such as this,” he said. “We’ll then
seek the remainder of funds from the commercials.”  Rinehart,  Asia ’s richest woman, plans to build the mine in
Western  Australia ’s Pilbara region at a time of declining price
forecasts. Rio Tinto Group, the world’s second-biggest mining
company, said yesterday it expects new  iron ore  supplies and
slower growth in steel demand to weigh on prices of the raw
material during the second half of the year. The Roy Hill mine
is set to begin producing in late 2015.  “This project is being assessed against the long-run price
of iron ore price, not the short-term,” said Fitzgerald. “The
funding period is quite long and the mine life is quite long as
well. We’re talking to all these institutions, basing the
project on a long-run model.”  ‘Debt Milestone’  Roy Hill’s parent, Hancock Prospecting Pty, met with export
credit agencies in December. It plans to reach a “debt
milestone” by mid-2013 and then complete funding at the end of
the year, Fitzgerald said.  “We see a key role for an independent producer of quality
iron ore in the market place,” Fitzgerald said.  Roy Hill contracted about 50 percent of annual supply on
purchase agreements, including with its equity partners, and
will seek more such accords, he said. The company expects credit
agencies to lend both directly and offer guarantees, with ratios
of covered and uncovered debt yet to be finalized, he said.  Iron ore prices may average $120 a metric ton this year,
Mark Lyons, Citigroup Inc.’s head of iron ore and steel trading,
said yesterday at a conference in Perth. Prices peaked at
$158.90 a ton on Feb. 20, the highest in 15 months.  The credit agencies in talks with Roy Hill are  Japan Bank
for International Cooperation , Export-Import Bank of  Korea ,
Nippon Export and Investment Insurance, Export-Import Bank of
 United States  and the Korea Trade Insurance Corp., the company
said in December.  China Purchase  Hancock has signed a purchase agreement with Chinese steel
mill Shanxi Zhongyang Iron & Steel Co., with production expected
to start in mid-2015, according to a Nov. 29 e-mailed statement.
Construction of the mine, located in Western Australia’s Pilbara
region, includes a railroad and a two-berth export facility in
 Port Hedland , the world’s biggest bulk export terminal.  Hancock had studied  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. (FMG) ’s plan to
sell stakes in its rail and port assets and concluded it would
rather seek to control its own assets, Fitzgerald said.
Fortescue, Australia’s third-biggest iron ore producer, owns
assets in the vicinity of Roy Hill.  Hancock, which owns 70 percent of the mine, plans to ship
55 million tons annually from Roy Hill. South Korea’s Posco and
STX Corp.,  Japan ’s  Marubeni Corp. (8002)  and Taiwan’s  China Steel Corp. (2002) 
own the remaining 30 percent.  BNP Paribas SA and National Australia Bank Ltd. are
advising on the debt funding package, Hancock said in December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  