-- Robot Surgery Risk Needs Disclosure as Injuries Rise
-- B y   R o b e r t   L a n g r e t h
-- 2013-03-20T20:20:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/robot-surgery-risk-needs-disclosure-as-injuries-rise.html
A rising number of injuries linked
to robotic surgery has been reported to Massachusetts health
officials, spurring the state to call for better oversight on
training and more disclosure to patients on potential risks.  The state’s  Board of Registration  in Medicine said in a
statement on its website yesterday that it has received “an
increasing number” of reports of patient complications related
to the surgery in the last two years. While the board doesn’t
name any company, the only robot system cleared in the U.S. for
soft tissue surgery is made by Sunnyvale, California-based
 Intuitive Surgical Inc. (ISRG)   “Risks for robot-assisted surgery should be thoroughly
explained” to patients with advisories about how much
experience a surgeon has in performing a particular robotic
procedure, the board said in its statement.  The state board listed three examples of complications that
have occurred following robotic surgery. In one case a surgeon
inadvertently left rectal tissue in the abdomen after a
procedure for ulcerative colitis. In another case a patient
undergoing a robotic hysterectomy and ovary removal experienced
damage to the bowel and left ureter, requiring multiple
corrective treatments.  Robotic operations “carry risks of complications and poor
outcomes” like any surgery, the state board said in the
advisory. Credentialing doctors “should be based on proven
competency and proficiency, rather than completion of a set
number of cases.”  Angela Wonson, a spokeswoman for Intuitive Surgical, said
the company agrees “with the conclusions in the report” which
“does not oppose robotic surgery.”  Video-Game Style  In robotic surgery, a doctor sits at a video-game style
console several feet from the patient and peers into a high-
definition display. Foot pedals and hand controls maneuver
mechanical arms equipped with surgical tools, guided by a 3-D
camera that shows the work as it is done inside a patient.  A burgeoning debate is taking place among doctors and in
the courts over the cost, usefulness and safety of Intuitive’s
robots.  At least 10 lawsuits have been filed over the last 14
months alleging injuries from robot surgery, and almost all cite
Intuitive’s training regimen. On Feb. 28,  Bloomberg News 
reported that U.S. regulators were surveying surgeons about the
robots following a rise in adverse event reports that include as
many as 70 deaths since 2009.  Share Impact  Intuitive Surgery shares rose 2.7 percent to $495.87 at the
close in  New York . The stock has fallen 14 percent since Feb.
27, the day before the survey became public.  Some doctors also question the robots' cost-efficiency,
pointing to the lack of large, randomized trials showing
significant health gains and data in hysterectomies showing
robotic surgery doesn’t reduce complications compared with
conventional, less-invasive procedures.  A 2011 study found that hospital websites often exaggerate
the benefits of robotic surgery. The analysis in the Journal of
Healthcare Quality by researchers at  Johns Hopkins University
School of Medicine  in Baltimore found that 86 percent of the
websites that mentioned robot surgery claimed superiority, while
none described the risks of the robot method. Often the websites
used stock images or text provided by the manufacturer, the
researchers found.  “Many hospital websites overestimate the benefits and
underestimate the risks of robotic surgery, potentially
misinforming patients,” the study authors concluded.  The robots and related products generated most of
Intuitive’s $2.2 billion revenue in 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Langreth in New York at 
 rlangreth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  