-- Romania Leu Gains 1st Day in 3 on Central Bank Intervention Bets
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2013-03-20T11:46:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/romania-leu-gains-1st-day-in-3-on-central-bank-intervention-bets.html
The leu strengthened for the first
time in three days on speculation  Romania ’s central bank will
curb a decline in the currency should it depreciate further and
as European policy makers work toward a new package for Cyprus.  Romania’s central bank has to manage the impact of the
Cyprus situation on the eastern European country’s capital
flows, Governor Mugur Isarescu said in a speech yesterday.  “We doubt the leu will trade toward 4.44 per euro but
should it ease to this level in the next couple of sessions we
believe the chance of central bank intervention increases
markedly,” Mihai Tantaru, a Bucharest-based economist at ING
Bank Romania SA, wrote in a note today.  The leu appreciated 0.3 percent to 4.4162 per euro by 12
p.m. in Bucharest, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Luxembourg Finance Minister Luc Frieden called for the 17
euro-area finance ministers to reconvene “as soon as possible”
to put together a new package for Cyprus, after they told the
country to raise 5.8 billion euros ($7.5 billion) from bank
depositors to unlock emergency loans.  The pressure on “financial markets in Romania and  Hungary ,
which in recent days showed the strongest reactions among
central and eastern European countries to the Cyprus issue,
remains moderate,” analysts at Raiffeisen Bank Romania SA,
including Bucharest-based Nicolae Covrig, wrote in a note today.  The Banca Nationala a Romaniei conducted its repurchase
agreement auctions without placing a limit on the size of the
currency sale for a third consecutive week on March 18. It
previously imposed a cap on the weekly auctions to support the
leu.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net ;
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net ;
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  