-- Russia’s VTB Will Review Its Cyprus Business If Levy Enforced
-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 2013-03-20T11:06:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/russia-s-vtb-will-review-its-cyprus-business-if-levy-enforced.html
VTB Group, the Russian bank with
the most assets in Cyprus, said it will “re-examine” its
business on the Mediterranean island if a tax on deposits is
introduced.  The potential levy is “unprofessional, dangerous and could
threaten the financial stability of the European and the global
economy,” even though VTB may lose “only tens of millions of
euros” in Cyprus, according to an e-mailed statement from the
state-controlled bank’s press office.  European policy makers are weighing how far to push Cyprus
after the nation’s lawmakers yesterday rejected a bailout deal
that would have seen a tax imposed on depositors in Cypriot
banks, which are estimated by Moody’s Investors Service to have
held about $31 billion in Russian funds as of the end of last
year. Russian President  Vladimir Putin  has called the proposal
“unfair, unprofessional and dangerous.”  VTB,  Russia ’s second-biggest bank, appears to be the “most
exposed” to risks in Cyprus because its local unit manages
about $13.8 billion of assets, Moody’s said. VTB says its
Cypriot unit, Russian Commercial Bank, accounts for about 3
percent of the company’s profit.  Luxembourg Finance Minister Luc Frieden today called for
the 17 euro finance ministers to reconvene as soon as possible
to forge a new bailout for Cyprus.  Cyprus History  In 1963, the Soviet lender Moscow Narodny set up a branch
in  Beirut  when the Lebanese capital was a major Middle Eastern
business hub, according to VTB’s  website . The branch was later
relocated to Cyprus as Middle East unrest grew, and ownership
was transferred to VTB.  Moscow Narodny was originally drawn to Cyprus for political
purposes, according to Tom Adshead, chief strategist at Moscow
hedge fund Kazimir Partners. “Since then, we have seen many
other Russian banks arrive in Cyprus for tax planning reasons
and they have happily stayed until now,” he said by phone.  Other Russian lenders with Cypriot units include OAO
Sberbank and OAO Gazprombank, both state-controlled, Otkritie
Capital, part-owned by VTB, as well as Aton Capital, UralSib
Financial Corp. OAO Promsvyazbank and BCS Financial Group.  VTB’s Moscow shares snapped six days of declines today,
gaining 1 percent to 5.19 kopeks at 2:09 p.m. in Moscow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  