-- Russian Retail-Sales Growth Slowest in 3 Years, Missing Forecast
-- B y   O l g a   T a n a s   a n d   S t e p a n   K r a v c h e n k o
-- 2013-03-20T13:17:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/russian-retail-sales-growth-slowest-in-3-years-missing-forecast.html
Russian retail sales grew at the
slowest pace in three years in February as inflation
accelerated, eroding household purchasing power.  Receipts at merchants advanced 2.5 percent from a year
earlier, down from 3.5 percent in January, the Federal
Statistics Service in Moscow said by e-mail today. Economists
forecast a 3.3 percent increase, according to the median of 17
estimates in a Bloomberg survey. Retail sales fell 1.8 percent
in the month.  Faster inflation and stagnating wages are choking the
 consumer spending  that accounts for about about half the economy
of the world’s biggest energy exporter. Gross domestic product
expanded 1.6 percent from year earlier in January, compared with
2.4 percent in December, less than the 5 percent growth goal set
by Prime Minister  Dmitry Medvedev .  “We attribute the gradual slowdown of retail-sales growth
to a deterioration of consumer sentiment and a deceleration of
retail-credit expansion,”  Julia Tsepliaeva , chief economist at
BNP Paribas, said by e-mail. “Although economic performance
remained sluggish in February, the data do not look alarming and
are unlikely to result in immediate policy reaction.”  Consumer prices advanced 7.3 percent in February,
accelerating from 7.1 percent in January and 6.6 percent in
December. Price growth remains the main concern of a majority of
Russians, alongside problems in housing and utilities, according
to a poll published Jan. 31 by the state-run All-Russian Center
for the Study of  Public Opinion .  Real wages increased 5 percent from a year earlier, down
from 8 percent in January. Unemployment fell to 5.8 percent from
6 percent in January, the statistics service said.  Fixed-capital investment growth slowed to 0.3 percent from
1.1 percent in January, less than the 1 percent median estimate
of 17 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Olga Tanas in Moscow at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net ;
Stepan Kravchenko in Moscow at 
 skravchenko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  