-- Russia Stocks Rise First Time in 4 Days as VTB Gains on Cyprus
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2013-03-20T15:44:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/russia-stocks-fluctuate-on-cyprus-debt-concern-vtb-shares-jump.html
Russian equities  gained for the
first time in four days as financial stocks climbed after
Cypriot lawmakers rejected a levy on  bank deposits , stoking
optimism lenders won’t incur losses.  The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  added 0.7 percent to 1,459.03 by the close
in Moscow. The dollar-denominated  RTS Index (RTSI$)  rose 0.7 percent to
1,489.34. VTB Group and OAO Sberbank, Russia’s biggest lenders,
rallied 1.8 percent and 2.6 percent, respectively.  Cyprus’s plan to rescue its economy through a tax on
deposits drove  Russian shares  to a three-month low on March 18.
While Moody’s Investors Service said VTB is “most exposed” to
the country’s credit crisis, the lender sees its direct losses
as “insignificant,” First Deputy Chief Executive Officer
Vasily Titov told reporters in Moscow today. Russia’s Finance
Minister met his Cypriot counterpart for loan talks in Moscow
today.  “The direct effect of VTB’s subsidiary on the parent is
marginal, the stock is bouncing back,” Natalia Berezina, an
analyst at UralSib Capital, said by phone. “The problem is that
the Cyprus situation is complicated and unclear and VTB remains
the most risky asset in this situation.”  Luxembourg Finance Minister Luc Frieden called for the 17
euro-area finance ministers to reconvene “as soon as possible”
to cobble together a new package. The  European Central Bank ,
whose Governing Council meets today in  Frankfurt , will also have
to decide whether to give Cyprus more time or consider cutting
off liquidity to the country’s banks.  Russia Exposure  Russian lenders and companies had about $31 billion placed
in Cypriot banks or their own units at the end of 2012,
according to a report from Moody’s March 13. At least $30
billion in further exposure comes in bank loans to Cypriot
companies of Russian origin, the ratings company said.  A double-tax avoidance treaty and lower tax rates have made
Cyprus a conduit for Russians moving money into and out of their
country. Cyprus is both the biggest direct investor into  Russia 
and the biggest recipient of Russian investment abroad,
according to Russian central bank data.  VTB may lose “only tens of millions of euros” in Cyprus,
it said in a statement on its website today. The planned deposit
tax levy is “unprofessional, dangerous and endangers the
financial stability of the European and global economy,” it
said in the statement.  Other lenders with Cypriot units include Sberbank and  OAO
Gazprombank (GZPR) , Otkritie Capital, which is part-owned by VTB, as
well as Aton Capital, UralSib Financial Corp., OAO Promsvyazbank
and BCS Financial Group.  The  Russian Depositary Index (RDXUSD)  increased 1.2 percent to
1,687.61, led by depositary receipts of Sberbank and VTB, which
rose 3 percent and 2.8 percent respectively.  Sensitive Sentiment  “It goes without saying that the main area of interest,
concern and risk will remain the passage of the latest Eurozone
bailout,”  Chris Weafer , Sberbank CIB’s chief strategist, said
in an e-mailed note. “Investor sentiment and, therefore,
attitude toward risk, will remain sensitive to any developments
or comments from political leaders.”  The number of shares traded on the Micex was 29 percent
above the 10-day average and  10-day price swings  spiked to
23.082, the highest since Jan. 14, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  Oil, Russia’s main export earner, added 0.2 percent to
$92.35 a barrel in  New York , after losing 1.7 percent yesterday.
Crude and natural gas account for about 50 percent of Russia’s
budget revenue.  The  Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX) , the largest dedicated
Russian exchange-traded fund, gained 1.4 percent to $27.90
today. The RTS Volatility Index, which measures expected swings
in the index futures, rose 0.8 percent to 21.80.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of raw materials added 0.1
percent to 643.94. The  Bloomberg Russia-US Equity Index (RUS14BN)  of the
14 most-traded Russian stocks in the U.S. increased 1.3 percent
to 98.06.  The Micex trades at about 5.4 times  estimated earnings  and
has lost 1.1 percent this year. That compares with a multiple of
10.5 times for the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index, which dropped
2.7 percent over the same period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  