-- Russia, Egypt Yet to Contribute to AMIS Commodity Database
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2013-03-20T10:51:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/russia-egypt-yet-to-contribute-to-amis-farm-commodity-database.html
Russia,  Egypt  and Nigeria are among
the five countries that still need to contribute data to the
Agricultural Market Information System set up by Group of 20
countries to avoid a repeat of the 2007-08 food-price crisis.  The others are  Kazakhstan  and  Saudi Arabia , David Hallam,
head of markets and trade at the  United Nations ’ Food &
Agriculture Organization, said in an interview in Geneva
yesterday. Russia was the world’s third-largest wheat exporter
in 2011-12, and Egypt was the biggest buyer of the grain, while
Nigeria is the world’s biggest rice importer, according to U.S.
Department of Agriculture estimates.  Rice prices surged in 2008, after the  Philippines  failed to
fill a rice tender following export restrictions by countries
including Vietnam and  India . That made other grains more
expensive and helped push global food  prices  to a record.  Rome-based AMIS has “fairly complete” data for 18
members, some information from four and “really no useful data
at all” from five, Hallam said. AMIS consists of the G-20
members as well as seven countries that are large users or
producers of farm products.  “All of the countries we’re working with, there isn’t a
single one saying they won’t collaborate,” Hallam said.  AMIS was set up to improve data on stocks and production of
corn, wheat, rice and soybeans with the goal of reducing price
swings. To fill in the gaps for countries that haven’t directly
provided figures, AMIS uses publicly available information as
well as data from the International Grains Council and the USDA,
according to Hallam.  Data Required  The five countries have failed to provide data “for a
variety of reasons, technical and organizational,” the FAO
director said.  “Until we get everybody supplying data which is
comprehensive and up to the standards we want, we’re looking at
another couple of years,” Hallam said. “This whole exercise is
a long-term effort. It’s a similar effort as what was done for
oil, and that took eight or nine years.”  Russia faces “an organizational issue” and a resolution
may be reached at an AMIS meeting in April, Hallam said.  The Russian agriculture ministry wasn’t available to
immediately comment when called by Bloomberg today.  Salisu Na’inna, the spokesman for  Nigeria ’s agriculture
ministry, wasn’t able to comment immediately when called by
Bloomberg. Saken Kalkamanov, a spokesman for the Astana,
Kazakhstan-based agriculture ministry, wasn’t immediately
available for comment when Bloomberg called his office and
mobile phones.  Hallam said some countries have been more willing and
capable to provide information on production and stocks than may
have been expected.  “ China  is a very active participant,” the FAO director
said. “Ukraine is one of the star performers.  Indonesia  is in
the top group of providing everything.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  