-- Saudi Arabian Man Charged With Plan to Murder U.S. Troops
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-03-20T19:58:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/saudi-arabian-man-charged-with-plan-to-murder-u-s-troops.html
An alleged al-Qaeda operative was
charged in Brooklyn,  New York , with plotting to kill American
soldiers in Afghanistan and attack U.S. diplomatic facilities in
 Nigeria .  Ibrahim Suleiman Adnan Adam Harun, 43, also known as “Spin
Ghul,” was charged in a six-count indictment unsealed today in
federal court with conspiring to murder U.S. nationals and bomb
a U.S. facility and conspiracy to provide material support to a
terrorist organization.  Harun, who was born in  Saudi Arabia  and claims Niger
citizenship, is accused of being involved in al-Qaeda activities
since before the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks on the World Trade
Center in New York and the Pentagon near  Washington .  Along with conspiracy charges, he faces counts of providing
material support to al-Qaeda and related firearms and explosives
charges. If convicted, he faces a maximum sentence of life in
prison, prosecutors said.  “Vowing allegiance to al Qaeda and training to commit
violent jihad are not the worst of Harun’s alleged crimes,” FBI
Assistant Director George Venizelos, head of the bureau’s New
York office, said in a statement. “Harun not only intended to,
but did, commit acts of terrorism against Americans. Now he is
subject to the American justice system.”  David Stern , a lawyer for Harun, declined to comment on the
indictment.  Afghanistan  Harun traveled from Saudi Arabia to Afghanistan to wage
“violent jihad,” arriving shortly before the Sept. 11 attacks,
prosecutors said. After receiving training from the terrorist
organization, he fought U.S. and coalition forces in Afghanistan
and attempted to kill U.S. military personnel from 2002 to 2003,
according to prosecutors.  The U.S.-led invasion of Afghanistan began in October 2001.  In 2003, Harun received further training from al-Qaeda in
 Pakistan  and traveled to  Africa  with plans to bomb U.S.
diplomatic facilities in Nigeria, prosecutors said. He later
traveled to  Libya , where he was arrested in 2005 and released by
the country’s government in June 2011, prosecutors said.  Italian authorities later arrested Harun for assaulting
officers on a refugee ship bound for Italy, prosecutors said. He
was extradited to the U.S. on Oct. 4, they said.  “Whether they try to attack our servicemen on the
battlefield, or scheme to kill our diplomats and citizens in
embassies abroad, terrorists will find no refuge,”  Brooklyn 
U.S. Attorney Loretta Lynch said today in a statement. “The
United States will use every tool at our disposal to protect our
nation’s security and stop terrorist attacks before they
happen.”  The case is U.S. v. Harun, 1:12-cr-00134, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christie Smythe in Brooklyn at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  