-- Savoy Opts for Casual Dining With Help of Kaspar the Cat
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2013-03-20T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/savoy-opts-for-casual-dining-with-help-of-kaspar-the-cat.html
The Savoy,  which opened in 1889  and
was known for the gastronomy of  Auguste Escoffier , king of chefs
and chef of kings, is to embrace a more casual style of dining.  Kaspar’s Seafood Bar and Grill, which opens on May 2, will
serve customers all day, seven days a week, with a range of
dishes, from smoked brown shrimp & eel cocktail at 14 pounds
($21.16) to lobster club sandwich with chips (25 pounds).  The venue, on the site of the short-lived River Restaurant,
is named after a three-feet-high (0.9 meter) cat sculpted in
1926 by  Basil Ionides  to stave off bad luck following the death
of the South African diamond magnate  Woolf Joel  in 1898.  Joel held a dinner for 14 and one guest said death would
come to the first person to get up from the table, according to
hotel legend. Joel took the risk and was shot in Johannesburg a
few weeks later, the hotel said today in a news release.  After that, tables of 13 were offered the company of
 Kaspar , who would be given a seat at the table.  Winston Churchill , who adored him, insisted that the cat join him for
meetings of his The Other Club dining group.  “Not only in its name does Kaspar’s keep alive the
wonderful history that this four-legged friend brought to the
hotel almost 100 years ago, but as an informal yet chic
brasserie-style restaurant it will also meet the demands of
today’s regular diners,” the release said.  Oyster Bar  The central feature of the Art Deco-style restaurant,
designed by  Robert Angell Design Studio , will be an oyster bar.  The head chef will be James Pare, a Canadian, who has
worked with Fairmont Hotels & Resorts Inc. for more than 13
years. He joined the Savoy for three years, having previously
worked at the Fairmont Chateau Whistler,  Canada , and the
Fairmont Olympic in  Seattle .  Kaspar’s replaces the River Restaurant, a French
establishment that opened after a 220 million-pound restoration
of the hotel that was completed in October 2010. Prince Charles,
heir to the U.K. throne, reopened the property the following
month in the presence of Saudi  Prince Alwaleed Bin Talal  Al Saud, who owns a stake in the hotel.  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Ryan Sutton  on U.S. food and  Lance
Esplund  on U.S. art exhibitions.  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  