-- HSBC Venture Ends Use of China Contract Sales Force
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-20T14:07:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/hsbc-insurance-venture-fires-staff-in-china-drawing-protest.html
(Corrects to show sales force wasn’t fired and was offered
alternative employment in first and second paragraphs.)  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , Europe’s largest
bank by market value, eliminated the use of contract sales staff
at its  life insurance  joint venture in China, sparking a protest
at its office.  A number of the employees at  HSBC Life Insurance Co. , in
which the lender owns 50 percent, were offered “alternative
arrangements” with  Allianz SE (ALV) , HSBC said in an emailed
statement today. Other affected workers were offered
redeployment, according to the statement.  The company, which continues to offer life insurance in
China, also distributes life products by Allianz in the country.  More than 100 protesters, dressed in business attire,
gathered at HSBC China’s headquarters in Shanghai, demanding
compensation and a meeting with bank executives.  HSBC Chief Executive Officer  Stuart Gulliver  has closed or
sold 47 businesses from the time he took the top job in 2011
through March 4, the bank said in a statement that day, as he
focuses on markets where the company is most profitable. In
February, the lender sold its stake in Ping An Insurance (Group)
Co., China’s second-largest insurer, for $9.4 billion.  HSBC’s China insurance venture, set up in June 2009 in
Shanghai with Beijing-based National Trust Ltd., lost 146.3
million yuan ($23.6 million) in 2011, 20 percent deeper than the
previous year’s loss, according to the latest  annual report 
posted on its website. Its premium income rose 40 percent in
January to 27.5 million  yuan  from a year earlier, slowing from a
78 percent jump in all of 2012, according to data from the  China
Insurance Regulatory Commission .  HSBC said about a year ago it will sell general insurance
units in Asia and Latin America for about $914 million.  Axa SA agreed to pay about $494 million to acquire HSBC’s
general insurance business in  Hong Kong , Singapore and Mexico,
the London-based bank said in a March 7 statement last year. QBE
Insurance Group Ltd. agreed to pay about $420 million for the
business in Argentina and the general insurance unit of HSBC
unit Hang Seng Bank Ltd.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jun Luo in  Shanghai  at 
 jluo6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  