-- Sberbank Strategist Weafer Leaves a Day After Deputy Quit
-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 2013-03-20T18:01:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/sberbank-strategist-weafer-leaves-a-day-after-deputy-quit.html
Chris Weafer  has left his position
as chief strategist at the investment banking unit of OAO
Sberbank, bringing to an end his second stint at the subsidiary
of  Russia ’s largest lender.  Weafer, who was head of research at  Troika Dialog (TROIKAS)  in the
late 1990s, returned in 2011 after Sberbank announced it was
buying the Moscow-based brokerage, Russia’s oldest. His deputy
Ovanes Oganisian departed because of “personal plans,”
according to a statement yesterday.  Irishman Weafer did not return phone calls or e-mails
seeking to confirm the move, which Sberbank publicized in an e-
mailed statement. Andy Smith, head of equity research at
Sberbank Investment Banking, will assume Weafer’s duties until a
new chief strategist is appointed, according to the statement.  German Nikonenko, a senior trader, and salesman Boris
Krasnenkov also departed the firm, the Moscow-based bank said in
a statement March 5. Nikolay Shamkhalyan, a junior futures
trader, also left, according to Sberbank, which said the
departures related to their “respective personal plans.”  Rated Russia’s top equity strategist by Thomson Extel in
2007, Weafer was previously  ING Groep NV (INGA) ’s head of Russia
research and chief strategist in Moscow. He was appointed chief
strategist at UralSib Financial Corp. in 2007 after a stint with
OAO Alfa Bank, the nation’s largest non-state lender.  Brokerages in Russia, including  Renaissance Capital  and IFC
Metropol, have been cutting staff, citing shrinking margins.  ING, the biggest Dutch bank, said in October that it will
close its Russian equities unit, while  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  said in
June that it would shutter its securities operation. Credit
Suisse Group AG is moving its Russian capital-markets and
advisory units from Moscow to London to cut costs, two people
familiar with the matter said in December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  