-- Sears Says Lampert Will Remain as CEO, Earning $1 Salary
-- B y   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 2013-03-21T15:12:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/sears-says-lampert-will-remain-as-ceo-earning-1-salary.html
Edward Lampert , the billionaire
hedge-fund manager who controls  Sears Holdings Corp. (SHLD) , agreed to
remain the retailer’s chief executive officer with a $1 annual
salary after taking over last month amid slumping sales.  Lampert’s new contract is effective Feb. 1, according to a
regulatory filing yesterday. During the first three years of his
tenure, he’ll participate in the company’s incentive plan with a
target payout of $2 million a year. Lampert, 50, will also get
$4.5 million a year in Sears stock.  He took over in February after Lou D’Ambrosio stepped down
for a family health matter after less than two years, as the
department-store chain works to snap a streak of quarterly sales
declines stretching back to May 2007. Lampert is the  Hoffman
Estates , Illinois-based company’s fifth CEO since he merged
Sears and Kmart in March 2005.  The retailer has been selling outlets and assets and last
year completed the spinoff of its smaller-format Hometown and
other stores in a move that raised $346.5 million from a rights
offering and a $100 million cash dividend from Sears Hometown.
D’Ambrosio had worked to cut inventory and debt, increase online
sales and use data from loyalty-program customers to spur
revenue growth.  Last month, Sears posted a fourth-quarter deficit that was
larger than it had forecast. The $489 million loss, narrower
than the $2.4 billion it posted a year earlier, was wider than
its prediction for a loss of $280 million to $360 million,
excluding the potential impact from store closings and other
items. Revenue fell 1.8 percent to $12.3 billion.  Loyalty Program  In a letter to shareholders, employees and customers,
Lampert highlighted improvements such as better clothing sales
and the retailer’s growing loyalty program.  For the current full year, analysts on average estimate the
company will report a loss of $313 million and sales will fall
7.4 percent to $36.9 billion, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg.  Sears fell 1 percent to $51.79 at 10:52 a.m. in  New York .
The shares had gained 26 percent this  year  through yesterday,
compared with a 9.3 percent gain for the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  