-- Seasonal Temperatures May Return to Much of U.S. in April
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2013-03-20T12:33:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/seasonal-temperatures-may-return-to-much-of-u-s-in-april.html
Temperatures across most of the
U.S. may climb to seasonal levels as April arrives, ending more
than two weeks of widespread colder-than-normal readings, MDA
Weather Services said.  The rise from March’s much-below-normal temperatures won’t
be dramatic because a weather pattern known as the negative
phase of the North Atlantic Oscillation will persist in keeping
the U.S. cool, according to  MDA in Gaithersburg, Maryland .  “The forecast has been adjusted slightly to the warmer
side in parts of the South and East, though persistence of the
negative North Atlantic Oscillation still limits the potential
for an abrupt, widespread warmup within this time frame,” MDA
said in its forecast for March 30 to April 3.  Natural gas futures rose to an 18-month high yesterday on
the cold that is expected to persist through the rest of March
across large Midwest and East Coast cities. From March 20 to 29,
temperatures in the central U.S. may be 8 to 14 degrees
Fahrenheit (4 to 8 Celsius) below normal, according to MDA.  Commodity Weather Group LLC President Matt Rogers differed
with MDA, predicting that temperatures will remain 3 to 5
degrees below normal as April arrives.  The normal average temperature in  New York  City on April 1
is 48 degrees, according to the National Weather Service. In
Boston it’s 43; in  Chicago , 44; in St. Louis, 52; and in
Houston, 67.  Rogers said he made his colder forecast in part because
only the model used by the European Centre for Medium-Range
Weather Forecasts predicts more seasonal temperatures to start
April. Models used in the U.S. and  Canada  tend to show cold
lingering at the start of the month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  