-- Senate Approves Bill to Avert USDA Meat-Inspector Furloughs
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2013-03-20T21:36:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/senate-approves-measure-to-avert-usda-meat-inspector-furloughs.html
A provision in a spending bill
passed by the Senate would avoid furloughs of U.S. meat
inspectors as part of budget cuts, lowering the risk of
disrupting plants run by companies including  Tyson Foods Co. (TSN)   The spending bill was approved 73-26 today and now goes to
the House. Earlier, in a voice vote, senators amended the
measure to let the U.S. Department of Agriculture shift funds
among programs to avoid pulling inspectors from meatpacking
plants that require federal oversight to operate.  The possibility that plants may shut for 11 days from July
through September drew protests from the American Meat Institute
and other industry groups. Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack,
who earlier estimated the disruptions could cost the industry as
much as $10 billion, said the amendment should avert furloughs.  Meatpackers welcomed the vote. “Meat inspection is an
essential government service, and should not be interrupted,”
Gary Mickelson, spokesman for Springdale, Arkansas-based Tyson,
the biggest U.S. meat processor, said in an e-mail. Mike Martin,
spokesman for Minneapolis-based Cargill Inc., said “it appears
as though the best interest of the American public is being
served in  Washington  today in a bipartisan way.”  House Action  The Senate spending bill would fund the federal government
through Sept. 30. House Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan
yesterday said his Republican colleagues may accept the
Democrats’ spending measure as-is. House Appropriations
Committee Chairman Hal Rogers said he expects the bill to pass
tomorrow.  The USDA began notifying union representatives that
furloughs are possible after the budget-cutting measure known as
sequestration took effect March 1. The mechanism is part of a
2011 deficit-reducing agreement that requires $85 billion in
across-the-board cuts to government agencies this fiscal year.  Meat, poultry and egg processing plants are prohibited from
operating without the presence of federal inspectors. Having to
furlough inspectors for 15 days would cost the industry more
than $10 billion in production losses, and workers at meat
plants could lose more than $400 million in wages, Vilsack said
in a letter to Senate Appropriations Committee Chairwoman
Barbara Mikulski in February.  Under the amendment, $55 million would be transferred from
USDA school-equipment grants and maintenance budgets for
buildings and facilities to the department’s  Food Safety and
Inspection Service , which pays inspectors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  