-- Serb Attack on Shadow Economy Would Cut Gap, Study Shows
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2013-03-20T16:08:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/serb-attack-on-shadow-economy-would-cut-gap-study-shows.html
Serbia  would narrow its fiscal
deficit by about 1 percentage point if the government clamped
down on the shadow economy, which makes up about a third of
overall economic activity, U.S. and Serbian officials said.  About 30.1 percent of enterprises avoid properly
registering and paying taxes for employees and cut corners on
administrative and safety standards to save costs, the U.S,
Agency for International Development and Serbia’s Foundation for
the Advancement of Economics said in a study presented today.
The survey of 1,251 Serbian businesses was conducted Oct. 16-22
by the Belgrade-based Ipsos Strategic Marketing.  “Low productivity, the economic crisis and a high degree
of illiquidity, as well as a heavy administrative burden, weak
regulatory framework, lack of legal safety and high degree of
corruption” are among reasons for the black economy, said
Gorana Krstic, a researcher at the foundation, known better as
FREN.  Premier  Ivica Dacic ’s eight-month-old Cabinet wants to
narrow the fiscal gap to 3.6 percent of gross domestic product
from 6.7 percent in 2012, lead the economy out of its second
recession in three years and bring down unemployment of around
25 percent. The two-month budget gap exceeded 28 percent of the
full-year target.  “In light of the economic crisis and fiscal constraints,”
Serbia should take measures to clamp down on the shadow economy
to help boost  tax revenue  by 33 billion dinars ($382.5 million)
over the next three years, said Lee Litzenberger, the U.S.
Embassy’s deputy chief of mission in Belgrade.  Shadow Economy  The study also showed the shadow economy in Serbia
contracted 3 percentage points from 33.2 percent between 2001
and 2010, mostly through the years of economic growth, and has
remained unchanged since the start of the recession.  Serbia’s informal economy is almost double the size of
those in the Czech Republic and Slovakia. Neighboring Bulgaria
is the only European Union member state with a bigger shadow
economy, estimated at 32.3 percent of GDP in 2010, according to
a study presented by  Friedrich Schneider , a professor at Linz,
Austria-based Johannes Kepler University.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  