-- Shell, Drax Named Preferred Bidders for $1.5 Billion CCS Funding
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2013-03-20T17:34:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/shell-drax-named-preferred-bidders-for-1-5-billion-ccs-funding.html
The U.K. selected two projects led
by companies including  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and  Drax Group Plc (DRX) 
as preferred bidders for 1 billion pounds ($1.5 billion) of
funding for  carbon capture  and storage.  The Peterhead project in Aberdeenshire, Scotland by Shell
and  SSE Plc (SSE)  was selected along with the White Rose venture in
northern England by Drax,  Alstom SA (ALO)  and BOC Group Ltd.,
according to a  statement  on the Department of Energy and Climate
Change website. The projects were chosen from among eight
original bids last year.  The government wants to spur a carbon capture industry by
the 2020s by supporting commercial operations that bury
emissions under the seabed. The plans appeared to falter after
British CCS projects missed out on a first round of European
funding and a first attempt at the 1 billion-pound contest
failed in 2011.  “Today’s announcement moves us a significant step closer
to a carbon capture and storage industry,” Energy Secretary  Ed Davey  said in the statement.  DECC will make an investment decision to build “up to
two” projects in early 2015, with facilities slated for
operation from 2016, according to the statement. The department
plans to agree on contracts to carry out early engineering and
design studies for the projects by summer.  Capture Power Ltd., the CCS venture comprising Drax, Alstom
and BOC, said in a separate statement it will get government
funding for preliminary engineering work for carbon capture at a
coal-fired power station at the Drax site near Selby in northern
England.  Shell and SSE plan to fit equipment to trap 90 percent of
the emissions from the Peterhead power station in what would be
the world’s first commercial CCS demonstration at a gas-fired
plant, for storage in the depleted Goldeneye gas reservoir
offshore  Scotland .  “The government’s decision sends a strong signal of
support for the role of gas in meeting the rise in global energy
demand,” Ed Daniels, chairman at Shell U.K., said in a separate
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  