-- Shell Amends North Sea Crude Contract in Line With Platts Change
-- B y   R u p e r t   R o w l i n g
-- 2013-03-20T13:24:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/shell-amends-north-sea-crude-contract-in-line-with-platts-change.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  amended a
clause to its contract for trading North Sea crudes to match
changes made by Platts, the publisher of the Dated Brent
benchmark that is used to price more than half the world’s oil.  The price of  Brent crude , one of the four streams that
comprise Dated Brent, will no longer be adjusted to take its
superior quality into account, Shell said today in a statement
on its  website . This means that only Ekofisk and Oseberg will be
subject to a quality premium, or so-called escalator, for North
Sea cargoes delivered from June,  Europe ’s largest oil company
said. The amendment is in line with changes to its methodology
announced last week by Platts, a unit of McGraw-Hill Cos.  The modifications aim to increase liquidity in Dated Brent
trades at a time when  North Sea  production is falling. Shell is
the custodian and creator of the so-called SUKO 90 contract,
which since 1990 has acted as an industry standard for the
trading of North Sea Brent Blend crude, or Dated Brent.  “Shell has further updated its SUKO 90 terms and
conditions to reflect the consensus reached in the market since
we published our proposed changes on February 8,” Ross Whittam,
a London-based spokesman at Shell, said by e-mail.  The fourth crude grade in the Dated Brent benchmark,
Forties, is already subject to a de-escalator, which reduces its
price, depending on its sulfur content. Sellers currently have
to pay 35 cents a barrel for every 0.1 percentage point of
sulfur on Forties with more than 0.6 percent sulfur.  Benchmark Price  Forties is the most abundant and cheapest of the four
grades that are together known as BFOE. It typically determines
the benchmark price.  “The introduction of quality premiums offers an incentive
for more deliveries of Oseberg and Ekofisk, and thus has the
potential to further gird the supply of oil underpinning the
BFOE complex and the Dated Brent price assessment,” Dave
Ernsberger, Platts’s London-based global editorial director of
oil, said on March 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rupert Rowling in London at 
 rrowling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Justin Carrigan at 
 jcarrigan@bloomberg.net  