-- Shell Buys More North Sea Forties; Chad to Cut May Crude Exports
-- B y   R u p e r t   R o w l i n g
-- 2013-03-20T17:59:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/shell-buys-more-north-sea-forties-chad-to-cut-may-crude-exports.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  bought two
cargoes of North Sea Forties crude, bringing its total for the
week to four.  Chad plans to reduce exports of its Doba crude in May to
two cargoes of 950,000 barrels each, one shipment less than next
month, according to a loading program obtained by Bloomberg
News.  North Sea  Shell bought Forties lot F0402 from  BP Plc (BP/)  for loading
April 3 to April 5 at 70 cents less than the cash cost of Brent,
Forties, Oseberg and Ekofisk for May, according to a Bloomberg
survey of traders and brokers monitoring the Platts pricing
window.  The company also purchased consignment F0410 from Vitol
Group for loading April 14 to April 16 at 15 cents less than
Dated Brent, the survey showed. The deals compare with the two
cargoes it bought on March 18 at discounts of 10 cents and 40
cents to the benchmark.  Reported crude trading typically occurs during the Platts
window, which ends at 4:30 p.m.  London  time. Forties loading in
10 to 25 days narrowed by 13 cents to a discount of 12 cents a
barrel to Dated Brent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
That’s the highest price since March 6.  Brent for May settlement traded at $107.82 a barrel on the
ICE Futures Europe exchange in London at the close of the
window, compared with $108.15 in the previous session. The June
contract was at $107.35, a discount of 47 cents to May.  Two Ekofisk cargoes for loading next month were dropped,
according to two people with direct knowledge of the matter, who
asked not to be identified because the information is
confidential.  Shell amended a clause to its contract for trading North
Sea crudes to match changes made by Platts, the publisher of the
Dated Brent benchmark that is used to price more than half the
world’s oil.  The price of Brent crude, one of the four streams that
comprise Dated Brent, will no longer be adjusted to take its
superior quality into account, Shell said today in a statement
on its website.  Mediterranean/Urals  There were no bids or offers for Russian Urals grade for a
second day, the Platts survey showed.  The Urals discount to Dated Brent in the Mediterranean
narrowed by 23 cents to $1.37 a barrel, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. That’s the smallest differential since Feb. 21.
In northwest  Europe , the  discount  was at $1.92 a barrel,
compared with $1.88 in the previous session.  OAO Surgutneftegas sold two cargoes loading in Baltic ports
to Repsol SA and Gunvor Group Ltd., according to two people with
direct knowledge of the matter.  Repsol bought one lot to load from Ust-Luga on April 3 to
April 4 and Gunvor purchased the other from Primorsk on April 4
to April 5, the people said, asking not to be identified as the
information is confidential.  West Africa  Benchmark Nigerian Qua Iboe blend fell by 5 cents to $3.24
a barrel more than Dated Brent, Bloomberg data show. That’s the
lowest since Feb. 28.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rupert Rowling in London at 
 rrowling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Justin Carrigan at 
 jcarrigan@bloomberg.net  