-- Slovenia’s Top Banks May Need 1 Billion Euros of Funds, IMF Says
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2013-03-20T15:29:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/slovenia-s-top-banks-may-need-1-billion-euros-of-funds-imf-says.html
Slovenia’s three biggest banks
including Nova Ljubljanska Banka d.d. may need about 1 billion
euros ($1.3 billion) of capital as bad loans grow amid the
country’s recession, the International Monetary Fund said.  Bad debt at Nova Ljubljanska, Nova Kreditna Banka Maribor
d.d. and Abanka Vipa d.d. accounted for 20.5 percent of their
total loans in 2012, climbing from 15.6 percent a year earlier,
the Washington-based lender said in an e-mailed report today.
The  economy , which shrank 2.3 percent last year, will probably
contract 2 percent in 2013, it said.  “A negative loop between financial distress, fiscal
consolidation and weak corporate balance sheets is prolonging
the recession,” the IMF said in the report. “Lenders need to
be substantially recapitalized” as their deteriorating loan
portfolio is eroding capital.  The new government of Prime Minister Alenka Bratusek that
will probably be confirmed by a parliamentary vote today,
pledged to continue boosting bank capital by as much as 4
billion euros as well as cut the budget gap. Slovenian banks
last year reported a combined pretax loss of 769 million euros.  “Financing requirements are particularly pronounced in
summer, with bank recapitalization needed soon and a large 18-
month T-bill coming due in June,” the IMF said, estimating
Slovenia needs to borrow some 3 billion euros this year. Large
part of funds should come from external financing, which
“highlights the importance of safeguarding market access.”  Slovenia scrapped a plan to sell a benchmark bond in
January, when the political crisis erupted after corruption
allegations surfaced against then-Premier Janez Jansa, who
denied any wrongdoing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  