-- Smart-Card Chipmakers Said to Face European Antitrust Complaints
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2013-03-20T13:40:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/smart-card-chipmakers-said-to-face-european-antitrust-complaints.html
Chip manufacturers face antitrust
complaints from European Union regulators over possible price-
fixing of microchips for smart cards, according to three people
familiar with the probe.  The European Commission may soon send a so-called statement
of objections cataloging antitrust concerns in the case that
dates back more than four years, said the people who didn’t
identify the companies concerned and who asked not to be named
because the EU process isn’t public. Such complaints are usually
a precursor to fines.  The Brussels-based EU agency  said  in 2009 that it raided
companies that make chips for telephone SIM cards, bank cards
and  identity cards  because they may have fixed prices, allocated
customers and exchanged commercially sensitive information.  Infineon Technologies AG (IFX) ,  STMicroelectronics NV (STM) , Renesas
Technology Corp. and  Atmel Corp. (ATML)  said regulators searched their
offices in 2008 as part of the EU investigation.  NXP
Semiconductors NV (NXPI) ,  Europe ’s third-largest chipmaker, said
earlier this month that it was also involved in the probe and
may be fined if the EU were to find it violated competition
rules. It said it was assisting regulators.  Chipmakers have incurred hefty punishments for past
antitrust violations.  Intel Corp . was handed a record 1.06
billion-euro ($1.37 billion) fine by the EU in 2009 for monopoly
abuse. The following year, the commission levied penalties
totaling 331.2 million euros on Infineon and eight other
manufacturers of dynamic random access memory, or DRAM, chips
for personal computers and servers.  U.S. Probe  A 2002 U.S. Justice Department antitrust probe into
computer memory chips used in mobile phones and computers led to
claims against four companies and 16 people who were fined as
much as $731 million.  Antoine Colombani, a spokesman for the commission, declined
to comment on the EU regulator’s next steps in the smart-card
chips probe.  After receiving the commission’s objections, companies
concerned in antitrust cases can defend themselves in writing or
at an oral hearing before the EU’s antitrust authority decides
to impose fines.  The chip complaint follows the collapse of talks on a
settlement between chipmakers and regulators that could have
reduced fines by 10 percent, the people said.  Adversarial Approach  Eric Van Ginderachter, the EU antitrust agency’s director
of cartels, said this month that officials are prepared to ditch
settlement negotiations and adopt a more adversarial approach if
progress isn’t being made.  Kay Laudien, a spokesman for Infineon, based in Neubiberg,
 Germany , near Munich, declined to comment. He referred to the EU
for any statement on the matter.  NXP Semiconductors, which was spun off from Royal Philips
Electronics NV in 2006, isn’t aware of any forthcoming EU
antitrust complaint, said Pieter van Nuenen, a spokesman for the
Eindhoven, Netherlands-based company.  STMicroelectronics “has not been involved in any
discussions with the regulators concerning the investigation
they have conducted on smart-cards,” said Alexis Breton, a
Paris-based spokesman for the company.  Sander Arts, a spokesman for  San Jose , California-based
Atmel, didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail and a call
seeking comment.  Oliver Luettgen, a spokesman for Tokyo-based Renesas’s
European unit in Dusseldorf, Germany, didn’t respond to an e-
mail and three calls seeking comment. Renesas, which was
established in 2003 by  Hitachi Ltd. (6501)  and  Mitsubishi Electric
Corp. (6503) , makes analog chips, microcontrollers, and semiconductors
for products including mobile phones and car-navigation systems.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Bodoni in Brussels at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  