-- South Korea Stocks Fall Most in Two Months Amid Computer Attacks
-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n
-- 2013-03-20T09:00:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/south-korea-stocks-fall-most-in-two-months-amid-computer-attacks.html
South Korean  stocks  fell the most
in two months, with the benchmark  index  extending losses in the
last minute of trading as a possible cyber attack shut down
computer networks at some of the largest banks and broadcasters.  The  Kospi index (KOSPI)  retreated 1 percent to 1,959.41 at the
close on the Korea Exchange, its steepest drop since Jan. 15.
 Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , Asia’s biggest maker of chips and flat
screens, dropped 1 percent, leading exporters lower.  Igloo
Security Inc. (067920)  and Internet security-related companies rallied.  Computer systems of at least three banks and three
television stations were shut down, prompting the  Defense
Ministry  to probe whether North Korea is behind the outages. The
shutdowns hit companies including  Shinhan Bank , Nonghyup Bank,
YTN, Munhwa Broadcasting Corp. and Korea Broadcasting System,
according to the Korea Communications Commission.  “It’s very unusual to see major banks and broadcasters
having computer system errors simultaneously, hurting sentiment
at the last minute of trade,” said Heo Pil Seok, chief
executive officer at Midas International Asset Management Ltd.
in Seoul, which oversees about $5.3 billion. “While there’s
some speculation that North Korea may be behind this, nothing
has been verified yet and investors need to monitor
developments.”  The benchmark gauge  fell  earlier today on concern Cyprus’s
rejection of a bailout plan signals Europe will struggle to
contain its debt crisis. The index extended losses in the final
15 minutes of trading on the computer network attacks.  Korea Exchange Inc., the nation’s bourse operator, hasn’t
detected any problems with its computer system, spokesman Won
Yong Joon, said by phone today. The exchange will keep a close
eye on the situation, he said.  Mirae Asset Securities Co. paced declines among brokerages,
slumping 5.1 percent, while Woori Investment & Securities Co.
dropped 1.7 percent.  Igloo Security, which provides Internet security solutions,
advanced 13 percent, while SoftForum Co., which markets data
security related products,  climbed  by the daily limit of 15
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saeromi Shin in  Seoul  at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allen Wan at 
 awan3@bloomberg.net  