-- South Africa Holds Key 5% Rate as Rand Stokes Inflation
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n   a n d   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2013-03-20T11:15:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/south-africa-holds-key-5-rate-as-rand-stokes-inflation.html
South  Africa ’s Reserve Bank kept
its  benchmark interest rate  unchanged for a fourth meeting as a
slump in the rand stoked inflation, preventing policy makers
from providing further stimulus to spur economic growth.  The Monetary Policy Committee left the repurchase rate at 5
percent, Governor Gill Marcus told reporters today in  Pretoria ,
the capital, matching the forecasts of all 19 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  The rand has fallen 8.2 percent against the dollar this
year, the worst performer after the Japanese yen of 16 major
currencies tracked by Bloomberg, driving up the cost of fuel and
other imports. Inflation accelerated to 5.9 percent in February
and will probably breach the central bank’s 3 percent to 6
percent target range in the third quarter, Marcus said.  “As long as the exchange rate remains weak, which it is,
they are highly unlikely to cut,” Carmen Nel, an economist at
Rand Merchant Bank in Cape Town, said in a phone interview.
“The statement appeared to be balanced overall, where upside
inflation risks are countered by downside growth risks.”  The rand strengthened to 9.2183 per dollar at 12:32 p.m. in
Johannesburg from 9.2381 before the rate decision and 9.2458
late yesterday.  Marcus raised her inflation forecast for this year to an
average of 5.9 percent from 5.8 percent and estimates it at 5.3
percent in 2014. The inflation rate is set to peak at an average
of 6.3 percent in the third quarter of this year, before
moderating to 5.2 percent in the fourth quarter of 2014.  ‘Upside Risk’  Inflation expectations have increased this year as the rand
weakened. The gap between yields on fixed-rate local-currency
bonds due in September 2017 and similar-maturity inflation-
linked debt, which investors use to gauge inflation expectations
over the period, climbed 3 basis points today to 6.37 percentage
points.  “The exchange rate of the rand continues to pose the main
upside risk to the inflation outlook,” Marcus said. “However,
the depreciated exchange rate provides an opportunity for the
manufacturing sector in particular to become more competitive
despite the challenging export environment.”  The rand’s decline was “somewhat overdone” and the
currency tends to retrace after overshooting, the governor said.
The central bank doesn’t target a level for the rand, which is
likely to remain volatile, she said.  Mining strikes and a slowdown in  Europe  has cut exports,
undermining growth in Africa’s largest economy. Finance Minister
 Pravin Gordhan  last month forecast expansion of 2.7 percent for
this year. That’s less than half the 7 percent annual growth the
government estimates it needs to cut the jobless rate to 14
percent by 2020. South Africa’s unemployment rate of 24.9
percent is the highest of 30 emerging-market nations tracked by
Bloomberg.  The MPC raised its forecast for economic growth this year
to 2.7 percent from 2.6 percent and lowered next year’s estimate
to 3.7 percent from 3.8 percent, Marcus said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  