-- South Africa Inflation Rate Rises on Medical Insurance Costs
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d   a n d   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2013-03-20T09:43:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/south-african-inflation-accelerates-to-5-9-in-february-on-rand.html
South Africa ’s inflation rate rose
to a 10-month high in February, pushed up by higher medical
insurance costs.  Inflation accelerated to 5.9 percent from 5.4 percent in
January, Pretoria-based Statistics South Africa said on its
website today. The median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 19
economists was 5.6 percent. Prices rose 1 percent in the month.  The rise “was mainly due to medical aid premiums that were
surveyed during the month,” Ilke van Zyl, an economist at
Vunani Securities (Pty) Ltd., said by phone from Johannesburg.
The premiums “didn’t increase by a lot more than usual, but the
weighting increased quite a bit.”  The statistics agency adjusted the consumer-price basket
with effect from January to give more weighting to medical
insurance, electricity and gasoline prices.  Inflationary pressures will probably increase due to a fall
in the value of the rand. The currency is the worst performer
this year of 25 emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg,
having weakened 8.4 percent against the dollar. This helped push
gasoline prices up 12 percent from a year earlier in February.
The central bank’s inflation target is 3 percent to 6 percent.  The rand traded 0.1 percent weaker at 9.2556 per dollar as
of 11:20 a.m. in Johannesburg.  Inflation Outlook  Yields on 13.5 percent bonds due March 2015 climbed four
basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 5.48 percent. Yields
on two-year  interest-rate swaps , used to lock in borrowing
costs, rose as much as seven basis points to 5.36 percent, the
highest since July.  Reserve Bank  Governor  Gill Marcus  will keep the repurchase
rate at 5 percent later today, according to all 19 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  “The outlook for inflation has deteriorated considerably
mainly on the back of the weaker currency,” economists at
 Nedbank Group Ltd. (NED) , South Africa’s fourth-largest bank, said
today in e-mailed comments.  The Reserve Bank “will need to strike a balance between
rising inflation as evidenced in the February consumer price
inflation numbers and still poor economic growth outcomes,”
they said. “We believe that a neutral policy stance will best
balance weak growth and rising inflation. Rates will remain at
current levels for most of the year.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  