-- Spreadtrum Leads Jump on Smartphone View: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-03-20T21:05:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/spreadtrum-leads-jump-on-smartphone-view-china-overnight.html
Chinese technology companies 
rallied in New York, led by mobile chip designer  Spreadtrum
Communications Inc. (SPRD) , on prospects rising demand for smartphones
will boost industry suppliers.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese stocks in the U.S. added 2.1 percent to 92.33, the
steepest gain in two months. Spreadtrum surged to the highest
level since November, while  China Mobile Ltd. (941) , the world’s
biggest wireless carrier by subscribers, climbed after reporting
third-generation mobile users jumped the most on record.  Yingli
Green Energy Holding Co. (YGE)  led gains on the China-US gauge
after signing a deal for solar panel materials.  China Mobile added 9.5 million 3G subscribers in February,
a third monthly record, the company said yesterday.  China
Telecom Corp. (CHA) , the nation’s third-largest phone operator,
yesterday reported October-December profit that beat analysts’
estimates as customers using Apple Inc.’s iPhone helped boost
sales of wireless data. Jefferies Group LLC upgraded Spreadtrum
to buy from hold, citing chip demand from China Mobile.  “The big jump in 3G users of China Mobile last month was a
boost to companies related to the mobile phone market,” Jeff Papp, a senior analyst at Oberweis Asset Management Inc., which
manages about $700 million of investments including Chinese
stocks, said by phone from Lisle, Illinois. “Low-priced
smartphones are selling very well in China, helping people beef
up their projections for smartphone shipments this year.”  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund (FXI) , the largest Chinese
 exchange-traded fund  in the U.S., jumped 2.5 percent to $37.25
in New York, rallying the most in more than two months. The
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  gained 0.7 percent to 1,558.71.  ‘Strong Tailwind’  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  surged 2.2 percent to
10,978.75 yesterday in its first advance in four days. The
 Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  of domestic Chinese shares surged 2.7
percent to 2,317.37, the biggest rally in two months, as Market
Studies LLC’s Tom DeMark said the index will climb as much as 28
percent by September.  Spreadtrum’s American depositary receipts jumped 7.8
percent to $19.69, the highest close since Nov. 8.  Jefferies analysts led by Ken Hui raised the  price target 
for Spreadtrum by 20 percent to $24 in a note yesterday,
implying a 31 percent gain from the March 19 closing price. Hui
increased his projection for China Mobile’s handset purchases by
54 percent to 139 million units in 2013.  “This will clearly be a strong tailwind for Spreadtrum,”
according to the report.  3G Subscribers  China Mobile’s ADRs gained 1.6 percent to $53.03, the first
advance in four days.  The company, based in Hong Kong, said 3G users reached
104.5 million by the end of February, from 95 million in
January. The monthly addition was the most on record and may
help the carrier achieve its goal of selling 120 million 3G
phones this year, Praveen Menon, a Bloomberg Industries
telecommunications analyst, said in a report yesterday.  Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corp. (SMI) , a
Shanghai-based chip foundry, climbed 7.1 percent to $3.03 in New
York, the highest price in six weeks. Its 2 percent discount to
Hong Kong shares was the smallest in four days.  China Telecom’s ADRs climbed 2 percent to $51.33, rising
the most in a week.  Net income at the Beijing-based company fell 17 percent to
2.36 billion  yuan  ($380 million) from 2.84 billion yuan a year
earlier, it said in a statement yesterday. That surpassed the
2.04 billion yuan average of six analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  Suntech Suspended  Trading in  Suntech Power Holdings Co. (STP)  was suspended after a
two-day, 16 percent tumble. The company, once the world’s top
solar manufacturer, may become the largest renewable-energy
insolvency after its main unit entered bankruptcy proceedings in
China.  Eight Chinese banks filed a petition for insolvency and
restructuring of its main solar manufacturing unit, Wuxi, China-
based Suntech said yesterday in a statement. Suntech said it
won’t object to the filing in Wuxi Municipal Intermediate
People’s Court. Suntech defaulted last week on $541 million of
bonds.  Yingli surged to $2.52. The Baoding, China-based solar
panel maker agreed to buy raw materials from  GCL-Poly (3800)  Energy
Holdings Ltd. as part of a three-year agreement.  Yingli, the world’s biggest solar panel maker by shipments,
will purchase polysilicon and solar wafers from Hong Kong-based
GCL-Poly to meet future expansion needs and get cheaper prices
for bulk orders, the two companies said yesterday in a joint
statement. GCL-Poly will use Yingli’s products for its solar
farms as part of the accord.  Melco Crown Entertainment Ltd. (MPEL) , a casino operator in the
Chinese territory of Macau, jumped 6.9 percent to $21.64, the
steepest gain since August. Grant Bowie, Chief Executive Officer
of  MGM China Holdings Ltd. (2282) , said he expects Macau’s mass market
casino revenue to grow “mid to high teens” on a percentage
basis in an interview yesterday. March casino revenue is
“pretty solid,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  