-- Stocks in Switzerland Climb; Swatch, Dufry Shares Gain
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2013-03-20T13:19:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/stocks-in-switzerland-climb-swatch-dufry-shares-gain.html
Swiss stocks  advanced, after
retreating the most in three weeks yesterday, as  Swatch Group AG (UHR) 
climbed and policy makers weighed options for keeping Cyprus in
the euro area.  Swatch, the world’s largest maker of Swiss watches, rose
the most in two weeks after Nomura Holdings Inc. said the stock
remains one of its top picks.  Dufry (DUFN)  AG jumped the most in four
months as UBS AG raised its rating on the shares.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  gained 0.7 percent to 7,843.35 at
2:17 p.m. in Zurich, after falling yesterday before Cypriot
lawmakers rejected a 5.8 billion-euro ($7.5 billion) bank-
deposit levy. The broader Swiss Performance Index added 0.6
percent today.  “Investors seem to have realized that the euro won’t go
under and that the  euro zone  won’t break up because of Cyprus,”
said Alessandro Fezzi, senior market analyst at LGT Bank Schweiz
AG in ZurichMarket. “Sentiment has changed very quickly, and
fundamentals still look quite good.”  The equity benchmark last week climbed to its highest level
since January 2008, as reports pointed to a strengthening global
economy amid speculation that central banks will maintain
stimulus measures.  The volume of shares changing hands in SMI-listed companies
was 5.1 percent greater than the average of the last 30 days,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Cyprus Package  Luxembourg Finance Minister Luc Frieden called for the 17
euro-area finance ministers to reconvene quickly to put together
a new package for Cyprus, after the rejection of the levy threw
the earlier bailout plan into limbo.  The  European Central Bank , whose Governing Council meets
today in  Frankfurt , will also have to decide whether to give
Cyprus more time or consider cutting off liquidity to the
country’s banks.  Swatch rose 2 percent to 542 Swiss francs. Nomura said
Swatch remains one of its top picks as it exploits “the Chinese
middle-class opportunity.”  Dufry climbed 3.1 percent to 120.30 francs, the most since
Nov. 19. UBS raised its recommendation for the operator of duty-
free shops to buy from neutral.  “Its cash generation is strong and the return to like-for
like growth in the second half of 2013 should be a key catalyst
to support the shares,” Joern Iffert, an analyst at UBS, wrote
in a note to clients today.  Novartis AG (NOVN)  gained 1.5 percent to 67.45 francs,
contributing the most to the SMI’s advance, as a gauge of
European health-care companies posted the best performance of
the 19 industry groups in the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  Roche
Holding AG  added 0.7 percent to 219.30 francs.  Komax Holding AG (KOMN)  rallied 5.2 percent to 88.35 francs, the
highest price since May. The manufacturer of wire processing
machines is considering all options, including a sale, for its
medical-technology and solar units, Finanz und Wirtschaft
newspaper reported, citing Chairman Leo Steiner.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  