-- Sundance Seeks Information From Hanlong After Detention Report
-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i   a n d   J a n e t   O n g
-- 2013-03-20T06:28:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/sundance-seeks-information-from-hanlong-after-detention-report.html
Sundance Resources Ltd. (SDL) , subject of
an agreed takeover from Sichuan Hanlong Group, is seeking
information from the Chinese company after a report by Shanghai
Securities News that Chairman Liu Han was detained by police.  “Until we get an explanation I’m a bit concerned,”  George Jones , chairman of the Perth-based company said today by
telephone. The two companies are scheduled to meet in the
Western Australian capital later this week, he said.  Liu and his ex-wife were in Beijing during the National
Party Congress this month and were detained after it ended,
according to the report, which cited unidentified people
familiar with the matter. Hanlong, which owns about 14 percent
of Sundance and plans to buy the rest for A$1.14 billion ($1.18
billion), is an investor in highways and power projects.  A woman, who identified herself only as Li and declined to
disclose her title at Hanlong’s headquarters in Sichuan, said
Liu is traveling on business and can’t comment to the media.  Sundance shares were halted yesterday after the Australian
Financial Review reported expectations, without citing anyone,
that Hanlong may seek a further extension to the bid because it
wouldn’t be able to meet a March 26 deadline to produce a
credit-approved term sheet. The newspaper later reported that
Liu postponed a meeting with Sundance earlier this week, without
citing anyone. The shares last traded in Sydney at 21 cents,
below Hanlong’s offer of  45 cents a share .  “Hanlong has indicated to us that they want to meet us and
carry on discussion to try to complete the deal,” Jones said.  The Securities News report didn’t cite a reason for Liu’s
detention.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Soraya Permatasari in Melbourne at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  