-- Suntech Won’t Object as China Banks Seek Solar Bankruptcy
-- B y   R e e d   L a n d b e r g
-- 2013-03-20T17:27:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/suntech-says-chinese-banks-seek-insolvency-for-main-unit.html
Suntech Power Holdings Co., once
the world’s top solar manufacturer, may become the largest
renewable-energy insolvency after its main unit was pulled into
bankruptcy proceedings in  China .  Eight Chinese banks filed a petition for insolvency and
restructuring of its main solar manufacturing unit, Wuxi, China-
based Suntech said today in a statement. Suntech said it won’t
object to the filing in Wuxi Municipal Intermediate People’s
Court. Suntech defaulted last week on $541 million of bonds.  Shi Zhengrong founded Suntech in 2002 and took the company
public three years later, becoming one of the world’s first
solar billionaires. Backed by government loans, the company more
than quadrupled its panel-production capacity to 2,400 megawatts
a year from 2007 to 2011, dominating the industry.  “It’s truly the end of an era,” said Jenny Chase, lead
solar analyst at Bloomberg New Energy Finance in Zurich. “For
years, it was the world’s biggest solar manufacturer.”  Initiating proceedings in China may make it difficult for
creditors in other countries to collect, said  Christopher
Peterson , a partner at the  law firm  Kaye Scholer LLP. “There is
a fundamental disadvantage that non-Chinese lenders have in a
bankruptcy.”  Trading of Suntech’s American depositary receipts, each
worth one ordinary share, was halted today after they slumped 28
percent to 42 cents before the start of regular trading. They
declined 46 percent in the past week through yesterday as the
company announced efforts to renegotiate the $541 million in
bonds that matured March 15 and went unpaid. That led the
company’s other creditors to call in debts.  Other Failures  Suntech’s collapse follows bankruptcies in  Germany  of
manufacturers such as  Q-Cells SE (QCE) , previously the biggest solar
manufacturer.  Sharp Corp. (6753)  of  Japan , which led solar cell-making
until 2006, has been scaling back operations overseas. In 2011,
Solyndra LLC collapsed despite $535 million of support from the
U.S. Energy Department.  Suntech said the court process for its Wuxi Suntech Power
Holding Co. unit will help it restructure liabilities.  About three-fourths of Suntech’s total cell manufacturing
capacity is in Wuxi, and about 1,200 megawatts of its 1,800
megawatt total can be attributed to the Wuxi Suntech unit,
according to Suntech’s last annual report. The remaining
capacity is in joint ventures. The unit makes both cells and
panels.  Cayman Parent  Suntech’s corporate parent is incorporated in the  Cayman
Islands , and the unit in insolvency is a Chinese company. It has
additional cell and module production in Wuxi, Shanghai and
Luoyang.  Chinese solar companies, backed by credit from the China
Development Bank Corp. expanded capacity to wrest control of the
industry from German and Japanese competitors. Panel demand
slowed in 2012 as governments in  Europe  and  North America  pared
subsidies. That created a global oversupply, driving down  prices 
and eating into margins and profits.  Suntech hasn’t reported a profit since the first quarter of
2011.  If the court approves the insolvency, the company intends
to keep producing panels to meet customer orders, Suntech said
in the statement. It didn’t name the banks involved in the
filing. The official Xinhua News Agency reported that the Wuxi
Intermediate Court already has started implementing “bankruptcy
reorganization” at Wuxi Suntech.  Solar Consolidation  Suntech’s failure will have more direct impact on its
customers, creditors and suppliers than on the industry, Lian Rui from Solarbuzz, an industry consultant, said by phone.  “Suntech’s case is symbolic in industry consolidation,”
Lian said. “We will see more companies to go bankrupt.”  The company continues to “work closely with all of our
stakeholders and take the necessary steps to put Suntech back on
track,”  David King , chief executive officer of Suntech, said in
the statement. “While we evaluate restructuring initiatives and
strategic alternatives, we are committed to continuing to
provide high-quality solar products to our global customer
base.”  Shi was ousted as chairman on March 4 as Suntech sought
financial aid from the regional authorities in Wuxi. That
assistance hasn’t materialized as advisers to government
agencies said China is seeking to shake the weakest companies
out of the $25 billion-a-year solar panel industry.  Other Chinese solar companies will probably “fail in the
consolidation this year,” Wang Xiaoting, a Beijing-based
analyst for New Energy Finance, said by phone.  The survivors will be companies with better  cash flow  and
diversified operations, including production plants and sourcing
agreement in other countries, she said.  China’s Industry  Four of the six top panel manufacturers are based in China.
Suntech ranked fifth in capacity last year behind Trina Solar
Ltd., Yingli Green Energy Holding Co. Ltd., First Solar Inc. and
Canadian Solar Inc., according to New Energy Finance.  “Suntech’s bankruptcy rather strengthens the position of
other leading suppliers,” said Stefan de Haan, principle solar
analyst at the consultant  IHS Inc. (IHS)  in Munich. “The
consolidation in the PV industry will continue. There are still
many hundreds of suppliers, and there is still a fundamental
overcapacity in the market.”  Suntech had more than $2.2 billion of  debt  at the end of
March 2012, the data show.  The company said March 11 it had obtained the backing of 63
percent of its bondholders to delay by two months payments on
the bonds.  Bondholders Clash  Other bondholders didn’t agree to the deal and are
preparing to file a lawsuit against the company, according to
James Millar, a partner at the law firm Wilmer Cutler Pickering
Hale & Dorr LLP in  New York . He represents bondholders who own
more than 1 percent of the debt and expects more to join the
lawsuit this week.  Colin Peterson, the managing director of Scottsdale,
Arizona-based Trondheim Capital Partners LP, a distressed-debt
hedge fund, has said his company owns enough Suntech bonds to
consider suing Suntech. Suntech didn’t contact Trondheim before
announcing the forbearance, he said.  Last night, Suntech named an executive from a government-
backed development company in Wuxi to serve as its president.
Weiping Zhou previously worked as chairman of Guolian Futures
Co., a unit of Wuxi Guolian Development Co. Ltd., which is
partly owned by the regional authority.  The appointment followed speculation from Maxim Group LLC
that Suntech may be merged into a state-backed entity after a
bankruptcy filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Reed Landberg in London at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  