-- Swimming Australia Coach Quits After ‘Toxic’ Culture Furor
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-03-20T05:37:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/swimming-australia-head-coach-quits-after-toxic-culture-furor.html
Swimming  Australia  said Leigh
Nugent will quit his post as national team head coach, a month
after the release of two reviews that criticized the squad’s
culture and leadership.  The governing body said in a statement today that Nugent
indicated last week that he no longer wanted the job. The
organization will appoint an interim head coach to be in place
for the Australian Championships beginning April 26 in  Adelaide .  “Leigh actually approached us to discuss his future and
where he would best fit into the new structure of the high
performance unit,” said Swimming Australia President Barclay Nettlefold. “In those discussions it soon became very clear
that while he still wanted to remain involved in the sport, he
didn’t want to continue in the position of head coach.”  The reviews, one of which concluded that Australia’s 2012
 London  Olympics swimming team was beset by “culturally toxic
incidents” including misuse of  prescription drugs  and bullying,
followed the nation’s worst performance in the Olympic pool in
two decades. Australians won one gold medal, six silver and
three bronze in London -- their lowest tally since 1992.  The men’s 400-meter relay squad, which won the 2011 world
title, said at a Feb. 22 news conference that they’d behaved
inappropriately at a pre-games training camp. Five of the six
admitted to taking a prescription sedative that was banned by
the Australian Olympic Committee as part of a bonding exercise.  Nugent, who also was head coach at the 2004 Athens games,
will take an extended break before returning in a youth
development and coach mentoring role, Swimming Australia said.  “The role of head coach is both physically and mentally
demanding and has evolved so much since I first took over the
reins in 2003,” Nugent, 61, said in a statement. “The time is
right for me to step aside and let someone else take over.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  