-- U.K. Civil Servants Strike Over Pay, Terms and Pensions
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2013-03-20T12:55:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/u-k-civil-servants-strike-over-pay-terms-and-pensions.html
As many as 250,000 U.K. public-
sector workers were called out on strike today to protest cuts
to their pay, pensions and working conditions.  The Public and Commercial Services union said “tens of
thousands” of its members are observing the strike, which marks
the start of a three-month program of action by the union. The
PCS represents government workers including tax officials,
passport and customs officers, coastguards and civilian police
staff.  “PCS members are determined to show the government they
will not be forced to accept having their pay frozen, their
terms and conditions slashed while the chancellor plots to
increase the pain on the public sector with further cuts,” PCS
General Secretary  Mark Serwotka  said in an e-mailed statement.
“We hope the government gets the message loud and clear.”  Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s coalition government
initially froze public-sector pay and is now capping increases
at 1 percent, less than  inflation , except for the lowest-paid
workers. Staff will have to retire later and receive smaller
payouts as part of the strategy to trim the U.K.’s record budget
deficit. The government says the changes mean state employees
will still be better off than most workers in the private
sector.  ‘Very Best’  “These reforms will ensure that public-sector pensions
will remain among the very best available and that they can be
sustained for future generations,” the Cabinet Office said in
an e-mailed statement. “Because we want to attract the best
staff, we will remain an employer with good terms and
conditions, as we have always been.”  About 102,000 state employees walked out last May when the
PCS last staged a strike without the support of other unions,
the Cabinet Office said.  Museums and driver-licensing offices are closed, border
checks at airports are disrupted and courts and tax offices
partially closed as a result of today’s strike, the PCS said.  “There’s been minimal impact on public services,” Cabinet
Office Minister Francis Maude told lawmakers in the House of
Commons in  London . “The turnout in the strike today has been
the lowest at any time since the election.”  The PCS has also called a half-day strike for April 5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  