-- U.K. Stocks Drop for Fourth Day After Osborne’s Budget
-- B y   S o f i a   H o r t a   e   C o s t a
-- 2013-03-20T16:49:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/u-k-stocks-rebound-from-three-day-drop-before-budget.html
U.K. stocks  dropped for a fourth
day, their longest losing streak in four months, as the
government’s official budget watchdog cut its forecast for
economic growth this year by half.  Eurasian Natural Resources Corp. slipped to a 10-week low
after the commodity producer said it may sell shares.  Asos Plc (ASC) 
rallied the most in six months after the U.K.’s biggest online-
only fashion retailer said quarterly sales soared 37 percent.
 Barratt Developments Plc (BDEV)  led housebuilders higher after
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  offered guarantees on
purchases of new properties in his budget.  The  FTSE 100 (UKX)  lost 8.62 points, or 0.1 percent, to 6,432.7
at the close in London. The equity benchmark has still  gained
9.1 percent  this year as U.S. payrolls and Chinese exports
bolstered confidence in the global economic recovery and central
banks maintained their stimulus measures. The broader FTSE All-
Share Index also retreated 0.1 percent today, while Ireland’s
ISEQ Index rose 0.9 percent to a 4 1/2-year high.  “Osborne is limited: he has to take from one hand to give
to the other,” Alan Higgins, who oversees about $44 billion as
chief investment officer at Coutts & Co. in London, said.
“Today’s statement is a small opening of the door for more
monetary stimulus, though it’s mainly a confirmation of what had
been happening already, so I see it as business as usual.”  Osborne’s Budget  Osborne said the the  Office for Budget Responsibility  has
lowered its forecast for economic growth this year to 0.6
percent from a previous estimate of 1.2 percent.  The Chancellor also changed the Bank of England’s remit,
asking policy makers to set out the arguments for allowing
inflation to exceed the 2 percent target.  Consumer prices  rose
2.8 percent in February from a year earlier, the fastest pace
since May, the  Office for National Statistics  said in a report
yesterday. Osborne added that the Monetary Policy Committee can
consider alternative stimulus measures to revive the economy.  “Given the ongoing exceptional challenges facing the U.K.
economy, it is possible the committee may judge it necessary to
deploy new unconventional policy instruments or approaches in
future, including some of those deployed by other central banks
in recent years,” Osborne said.  Still, BOE Governor  Mervyn King  was defeated for a second
month in a vote on whether to expand stimulus, according to
minutes from the MPC’s March meeting published by the central
bank today. Six of the nine MPC members voted to leave the
central bank’s target for  bond purchases  at 375 billion pounds
($567 billion). King,  David Miles  and  Paul Fisher  voted for a 25
billion-pound increase.  Cyprus Talks  In Cyprus, party leaders meet today after lawmakers voted
against a levy on  bank deposits  that the euro area had demanded
in return for a bailout. The island nation’s banks and equity
markets remain closed today.  The  European Central Bank , whose Governing Council also
meets today in  Frankfurt , will have to decide whether to give
Cyprus more time or consider cutting off liquidity to the
country’s lenders.  Luxembourg’s Finance Minister, Luc Frieden, called for the
17 euro-area finance ministers to reconvene quickly to put
together a new package for Cyprus.  ENRC slipped 1.9 percent to 306.9 pence after Chief
Executive Officer Felix Vulis said the commodity producer
remains committed to a share sale. ENRC also reported a full-
year loss because of a $1.5 billion impairment charge and lower
commodity prices.  Pearson, Asos  Pearson Plc, a U.K.-based publisher which depends on the
 North America (PSON)  region for more than half of its sales, lost 1.8
percent to 1,170 pence. The U.S. Supreme Court ruled late
yesterday that publishers and manufacturers can’t block imports
of cheaper copyrighted items made and sold abroad.  Asos surged 7.8 percent to 3,355 pence. Total retail sales
rose 37 percent to 186.5 million pounds in the three months
ended Feb. 28, the retailer said in a statement. That exceeded
the  median estimate  of a 35 percent increase from five analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Countrywide Plc rallied 13 percent to 397 pence. The real
estate agent raised 200 million pounds at its IPO, which was
priced at 350 pence a share, according to a statement.  Barratt surged 6.6 percent to 255.6 pence as Osborne
announced a program to help people buy new-build properties as
part of today’s budget.  Persimmon Plc (PSN) , the  U.K.’s largest
housebuilder , rallied 4 percent to 1,010 pence, its highest
price since November 2007.  Taylor Wimpey Plc (TW/)  advanced 6.1
percent to 90.85 pence.  Housebuilders Jump  “The bigger news is housing and the potential issue of
U.S.-style mortgage bonds,” Coutts’s Higgins said. “Osborne
explicitly said he’s going to take advantage of the low
borrowing costs, so that seems to imply that they’re going to
issue bonds which will use these mortgages as collateral.”  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  added 2.3 percent to 300.2
pence. Liberum raised its recommendation on the stock to buy
from hold, with analyst Cormac Leech predicting that Britain’s
biggest government-owned lender will exceed its target for  Tier
1 capital  and complete its disposal plan by the end of 2014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sofia Horta e Costa in London at 
 shortaecosta@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  