-- U.K. Pledges Tax Breaks for Shale Gas, Low Emissions Cars
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s   a n d   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2013-03-20T15:44:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/u-k-pledges-tax-breaks-for-shale-gas-low-emissions-cars.html
U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer
George Osborne offered tax breaks to low emissions vehicles
while promising support for shale gas developers and energy-
intensive industries in his annual budget today.  Osborne told lawmakers the U.K. will support the
manufacture of “ultra-low emission vehicles” with tax
incentives. He also said he’ll bring in a “generous new tax
regime” to promote early investment in shale gas, and will
exempt ceramics and other industries from the climate change
levy, a tax on power and gas.  “This is yet another budget from Osborne where he does
something good with one hand and confounds it with tax breaks
for dirty fuels with the other,” David Powell, a campaigner for
the Friends of the Earth environmental group, said in an
interview from London.  Osborne, a Conservative, has sought to promote gas and slow
the development of renewable energy, especially onshore wind,
bringing him into conflict with Energy Secretary Ed Davey, a
member of the coalition government’s junior partner, the Liberal
Democrats. He also persuaded Davey to delay a decision to set a
2030 decarbonization target for the power industry until 2016.  The chancellor today almost doubled the so-called carbon
price floor, a tax on power generators that use fossil fuels.
The rate will rise to 18.08 pounds ($27.42) per ton of carbon
dioxide in April 2015, from 9.55 pounds the previous tax year
and 4.94 pounds for the tax year starting next month.  Carbon Capture  Osborne also announced measures to promote carbon capture
and storage. The government said two groups featuring Royal
Dutch Shell Plc and SSE Plc, and Alstom SA, Drax Group Plc,
National Grid Plc and BOC Group Ltd. are preferred bidders in
its 1-billion-pound CCS competition. The technology seeks to
capture factory and power plant emissions and pump them
underground for permanent storage.  Osborne proposed to exempt industries using “metallurgical
and mineralogical processes” from the climate change levy on
power consumption from April 2014. A draft law will be published
in the fall, he said. He also said he’ll introduce a new field
allowance for shale gas developers that would reduce their tax
burden, and provide clarity around planning rules for them.  The government proposed tax breaks to businesses using low-
emissions vehicles as company cars that will cost 105 million
pounds over the three tax years starting April 2015, according
to budget documents posted on the Treasury Website. At the same
time, Osborne scrapped a fuel tax rise planned for September.  Osborne’s budget contains a “green economy-shaped hole,”
according to Caroline Lucas, the country’s only lawmaker from
the Green Party. She said the chancellor should step up efforts
to promote a part of the economy that’s now worth 120 billion
pounds, or 9 percent of Britain’s economic output.  “We need urgent investment in nationwide green
infrastructure to stabilise the economy, tackle the
environmental crisis and deliver clean and secure energy for the
future,” Lucas said in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net ;
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  