-- U.K. Utility Carbon Costs May Surge to 35 Euros, New Energy Says
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2013-03-20T18:25:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/u-k-utility-carbon-costs-may-surge-to-35-euros-new-energy-says.html
U.K. utilities will face a surge in
carbon costs to as much as 35 euros ($45) a metric ton by 2015
after the government set its emission price floor at its highest
rate yet, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  Britain will demand utilities pay 18.08 pounds ($27.40) per
ton of carbon dioxide emitted for the year through March 2016,
the U.K. Treasury said today in its  budget document . That
compares with 4.94 pounds a ton when the support program starts
next month.  The U.K. is seeking to spur construction of nuclear plants
by making it more costly to run fossil fuel-powered stations. On
top of the support payments, U.K. energy companies may have to
fork out another 14 euros a ton if EU lawmakers approve
proposals to postpone the sale of new permits in a strategy
known as backloading, New Energy Finance figures show.  “The combination of backloading politics in Brussels and
the carbon price-support mechanism from Whitehall makes life
complicated for U.K. energy companies,” Matthew Cowie, an
analyst in London for New Energy Finance, said today by e-mail.
“If backloading eventually finds support, the peak of its price
impact on EU allowances is likely to coincide with the record-
high carbon price support payment announced today.”  The support will increase costs for U.K. energy consumers
compared with those in the rest of  Europe , according to  Wayne
Mitchell , director of industrial and commercial markets at
npower, the Swindon, England-based unit of  RWE AG. (RWE)   The U.K. price floor was increased to compensate for the
slump in carbon permit prices, which fell to a record low in
January, said Catherine Airlie, an analyst with  IHS Inc. (IHS)  in
London.  “The higher tax will raise the cost of generating
electricity, pushing consumer energy bills higher,” Airlie said
today by e-mail. That may increase the number of people who
struggle to pay fuel costs, she said.  EU carbon for December rose 13 percent today to 3.97 euros
a metric ton on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in  London  at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  