-- U.K. Homebuilders Gain on Osborne’s New Program
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e   a n d   P a t r i c k   G o w e r
-- 2013-03-20T16:02:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/u-k-homebuilders-gain-on-osborne-s-new-program.html
U.K. homebuilders  rose to the
highest in almost five years after Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  pledged 3.5 billion pounds ($5.3 billion) to
buyers of newly built homes.  Osborne in his annual budget report to lawmakers in London
today said the government will provide an equity loan of as much
as 20 percent of the value of a newly built home worth 600,000
pounds or less. The “Help to Buy” program broadens an existing
policy beyond first-time buyers and will begin next month.  The Bloomberg EMEA Homebuilders Index gained as much as 5.5
percent in London trading, reaching its highest since May 2008.
Gains were led by  Barratt Developments Plc (BDEV) , the U.K.’s largest
homebuilder by volume, which rose 7.3 percent to 257.3 pence.
Persimmon Plc, the U.K.’s largest homebuilder by market value,
increased 4.6 percent. Crest Nicholson Holdings Plc was up as
much as 5.9 percent, the most since its initial public offering
last month.  “House building has a key role to play in the economic
recovery,” Persimmon Chief Executive Officer Mike Farley said
by e-mail. “Help to Buy will be particularly helpful to capital
constrained small- and medium-sized house builders, providing a
boost to sales and build rates, which should be good news for
jobs and economic growth.”  Prime Minister  David Cameron  is using homebuilding to help
stimulate the economy, which is at risk of entering an
unprecedented triple-dip recession. The Bank of England’s
Funding for Lending Scheme has eased conditions in the home-loan
market and the government has also tried to bolster the housing
industry by simplifying planning laws.  NewBuy Policy  The U.K. government sought to assist 100,000 new home
purchases under its NewBuy policy, where the state and the
homebuilder split some of the losses they would incur in a
default. Around 3,000 potential buyers reserved a home using the
program since it was introduced last March, the Home Builders
Federation said Jan. 24.  The latest plan “opens it up to more people and takes away
the requirement for developers to take an equity stake,” Steve Turner, a spokesman for the London-based federation, said by
telephone. “This reduces the burden on developers’ balance
sheets and the funds made available by this can be reinvested
into more sites and more land for more homes.”  The government will also offer guarantees to support 130
billion pounds of mortgages for existing and newly built homes,
according to the budget announcement. The program starts in 2014
and will run for three years. Lenders can purchase a state
guarantee that compensates part of their losses in the event of
foreclosure, but the government will charge a fee for the
assurance.  “Help to Buy is a dramatic intervention to get our housing
market moving,” Osborne said in the House of Commons. “For
newly built housing, government will put up a fifth of the cost,
and for anyone who can afford a mortgage but can’t afford a big
deposit, our mortgage guarantee will help you buy your own
home.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Spillane in  London  at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Gower in London at 
 pgower@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  