-- U.K. Cuts Tax on Beer, Continues Scheduled Rise for Wine
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2013-03-20T15:02:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/u-k-cuts-tax-on-beer-continues-scheduled-rise-for-wine.html
U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  cut the price of a pint of beer by 1 penny,
canceling a scheduled increase of 3 pence in a bid to support
the country’s pubs.  The reduction, which will take effect on March 25, follows
a campaign by the brewing and hospitality industry to help save
pubs, 10,000 of which have closed in the past decade, Osborne
said. Beer-duty rates will in future be increased in line with
the retail-price index measure of inflation. Today’s cut refers
to “average-strength” beer, the Treasury said.  “Responsible drinkers, and our pubs, should not pay the
price for the problems caused by others,” Osborne told
lawmakers in the House of Commons in  London  today. “Instead of
the 3 pence rise in beer duty tax planned for this year I am
canceling it altogether, that’s the freeze people have been
campaigning for, but I’m going to go one step further and I am
going to cut beer duty.”  Other alcohol-duty increases will continue as scheduled,
Osborne said, with rates for wine, cider and spirits increasing
by 2 percent more than RPI on March 25, as announced in
Osborne’s 2010 budget.  A liter (33.8 fluid ounces) of cider will increase by 2
pence, a standard 75-centiliter bottle of wine by 10 pence and a
bottle of spirits by 38 pence from March 25, according to
Treasury briefing documents.  ‘Momentous Day’  “This is a momentous day for Britain’s beer drinkers,”
Mike Benner, chief executive of the Campaign for Real Ale, said
in a statement on the pressure group’s  website . “This is a
massive vote of confidence in British pubs and will lead to an
increase in pub going and more money in the chancellor’s
coffers.”  Wine and spirit producers questioned the legality of
singling out beer for a cut and said sales of their products
also contribute to the survival of pubs. “It makes little sense
to single out beer, particularly as there is a legal precedent
to suggest government is unable to do so,” Miles Beale, chief
executive officer of the Wine and Spirit Trade Association, said
in a statement. “If this was designed as a measure to support
pubs it seems misplaced. Over 41 percent of drinks sold in pubs
are wine and spirits.”  -- Editors: Eddie Buckle, James Hertling  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  