-- U.S. Main Source of Attacks on China State Websites, Agency Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-20T06:00:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/u-s-main-source-of-attacks-on-china-state-websites-agency-says.html
The number of Chinese government
websites targeted by hackers almost doubled last year to 3,016,
with the largest number of attacks coming from the U.S.,  China ’s
 network security agency  said in a report.  “Law enforcement agencies should increase punishment of
network crime and strictly pursue violators in order to create
an effective deterrent,” the National Computer Network
Emergency Response Technical Team Coordination Center of China,
or CNCERT, said in the  report  posted to its website yesterday.  So-called back-door viruses infected 52,324 websites in
China last year, a 214 percent increase from 2011, according to
CNCERT, which is controlled by the Ministry of Industry and
 Information Technology . Of those infected, 3,016 were
government-run websites, an increase of 93 percent, it said.  Cyber attacks have become a priority for the U.S. after
hacking on corporate networks were traced to China by American
intelligence agencies and security firms such as Alexandria,
Virginia-based Mandiant Corp. President  Barack Obama , in his
first conversation with Xi Jinping after the Chinese president
took office last week, said cyber attacks from China would be a
key part of bilateral talks.  Li Keqiang , at his first press conference after taking over
as China’s premier, said the U.S. should stop making
“groundless accusations” against China regarding cyber
security and focus on “practical” action over the issue.  China’s network security agency said in its report that 23
percent of the IP addresses used in the back-door virus attacks
were based in the U.S., with 14 percent in Taiwan, 8 percent in
Hong Kong, 6.7 percent in South Korea and 4.5 percent in
Malaysia.  The number of malicious programs targeting mobile Internet
users also rose, with 162,981 samples discovered last year,
which was 25 times more than in 2011, CNCERT said. Eighty-three
percent of the viruses targeted devices running  Google Inc.’s (GOOG) 
Android operating system, it said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Daryl Loo in Beijing at 
 dloo7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Liu  at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net  