-- U.S. Open Tennis Purse Rises to $50 Million; Men’s Finals Sunday
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2013-03-20T17:45:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/u-s-open-tennis-purse-rises-to-50-million-men-s-finals-sunday.html
Prize money for the  U.S. Open 
tennis tournament will reach $50 million by 2017, almost twice
the $25.5 million for last year’s final Grand Slam event.  The men’s championship match also will return to Sunday
beginning in 2015, with the semifinals played the previous
Friday, the U.S. Tennis Association said.  The USTA said in a news release that it was adding $4.1
million to the $4 million additional payout announced in
December for this year’s tournament in New York. That brings the
total distribution to $33.6 million in 2013.  “With this unprecedented commitment to long-term prize
money and recognition of the value that players bring to the
sport, we will gain stability for the sport so that we can focus
our energy on growing the game and ensuring tennis’s vitality in
the U.S. for years to come,” David Haggerty, the USTA’s
chairman, said in a statement.  This year, the men are scheduled to have the semifinal
round on Saturday, Sept. 7, and the final on Monday, Sept. 9, a
decision that left several players unhappy with the tournament’s
extension. The same format will be kept for 2014.  In the past, the men’s semifinals were scheduled on
Saturday and the final on Sunday. The tournament was forced to a
Monday conclusion each of the past five years after being
plagued by poor weather, and many players complained that the
schedule, especially if altered by rain, gave them no time to
rest.  Federer Applauds  “This excellent outcome for the sport of tennis wouldn’t
have been possible without the open-mindedness and fairness of
USTA President Dave Haggerty and the USTA staff,” Roger Federer, the 17-time Grand Slam winner who heads ATP World
Tour’s Player Council, said in a statement. “Everyone I have
spoken with is excited about the increases in prize money, as
well as the agreement to change the schedule for 2015 and
beyond.”  Men and women receive equal prize money distribution, and
round-by-round distribution will be announced later. Last year,
Andy Murray of Britain and Serena Williams of the U.S. each
received $1.9 million for winning the men’s and women’s singles
titles.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  