-- UN Wants Sri Lanka to Probe Rights Violations, War Crimes
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n
-- 2013-03-20T18:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/un-wants-sri-lanka-to-probe-rights-violations-war-crimes.html
Sri Lanka should probe alleged
human-rights violations and  war crimes  that occurred during its
26-year civil war, according to a U.S.-sponsored resolution to
be voted on today at the United Nations Human Rights Council.  A UN panel in April 2011 accused Sri Lanka’s military and
Tamil Tiger rebels of committing serious violations of
international law in the final stages of the conflict, resulting
in as many as 40,000 civilian deaths. Sri Lanka has denied the
allegations and says the latest calls for an international
inquiry amount to interference.  The resolution calls on the government to investigate
reports that its troops slaughtered civilians in the weeks
before Tamil guerrillas were crushed in May 2009. While the U.S.
proposal initially called for an international inquiry, the
revised draft urges  Sri Lanka ’s government to set up a mechanism
for a credible, independent probe and to take action to
guarantee justice and reconciliation in the country.  The government should “take all necessary additional steps
to fulfill its relevant legal obligations and commitment to
initiate credible and independent actions to ensure justice,
equity, accountability, including investigations of violations
of international law, and reconciliation for all Sri Lankans,”
according to the draft resolution to be presented in Geneva.  Indian Coalition  The alleged war crimes in Sri Lanka are threatening the
stability of the coalition government in  India , Sri Lanka’s
northern neighbor and biggest trade partner.  The ethnic Tamil  Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam , the former
largest ally of Indian Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh , withdrew
from the coalition on March 19 over policy toward alleged war
atrocities in Sri Lanka and yesterday ruled out reconciliation,
leaving the premier as many as 44 seats short of the halfway
mark in the lower house of parliament.  Navi Pillay, the UN’s top human-rights official, called
last month for an international inquiry into rights abuses and
war-time atrocities in Sri Lanka. Her deputy, Kang Kyung-wha,
said yesterday in Geneva that the island nation had made only
“selective, piecemeal commitments” rather than “adopting a
comprehensive policy on accountability and reconciliation.”  Sri Lanka Foreign Minister G.L. Peiris vowed to reject the
resolution, which is also sponsored by European Union nations
including  Austria ,  Belgium ,  France ,  Germany  and the U.K. as well
as  Canada . Sri Lanka dismissed a similar resolution in March
2012 that passed 24-15 with eight abstentions.  ‘Disproportionate Attention’  “Drawing disproportionate attention to Sri Lanka’s
situation and introducing a resolution that seeks to discredit,
single out and humiliate the country are unhelpful and
counterproductive to Sri Lanka’s current reconciliation
process,” Peiris wrote in a communique to other members of the
rights council.  The latest UN draft was watered down at the insistence of
India, according to G. Ananthapadmanabhan, who heads the Indian
chapter of  Amnesty International .  “The revised U.S. draft resolution is much softer in the
context of the overwhelming volume of new evidence that has been
unearthed” since the 2012 council resolution, he said in a
 statement . “There is a significant downgrading of the
international community’s concerns regarding human-rights
violations in Sri Lanka. It is disappointing that the resolution
does not call for an international investigation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  