-- Hungary Asks Journalist to Return Award on Anti-Semitism
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2013-03-20T10:21:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/hungary-asks-journalist-to-return-award-on-anti-semitism.html
Hungarian Human Resources Minister
Zoltan Balog asked a journalist he decorated last week to return
the award at the request of  Israel  and the U.S., which cited the
reporter’s racist and anti-semitic views.  Balog awarded the Tancsics prize on March 14 to Ferenc
Szaniszlo, a television journalist who incited hatred against
minorities, including Jews, with his “anti-Hungarian
conspiracies,” according to a 2010 media regulator ruling.
Balog said after awarding the prize that he didn’t know about
Szaniszlo’s racist views.  Szaniszlo said in a Feb. 11, 2011, report on Echo TV that
 Hungary  is suffering from “gypsy terror” and has been torn
into “three parts” -- Hungarian, Jewish and gypsy -- and that
“at the end someone will have to leave.” The station was fined
500,000 forint ($2,124) by the media regulator for violating
human dignity and laws banning incitement to hatred.  “I immediately publicly acknowledged that I had made a bad
decision,” Balog told Szaniszlo in a letter published by state
news service MTI late yesterday. “Since I have no other means,
I ask you to return the Tancsics prize I awarded you in error.”  The award casts “a shadow” on Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s efforts to combat racism and hate speech, U.S.
Ambassador to Hungary Eleni Tsakopoulos Kounalakis said in a
statement yesterday. The award “might cause a negative
impression and lead us in the wrong direction,” Israeli
ambassador Ilan Mor said on March 18.  Jewish groups last year criticized Orban’s government for
appearing to legitimize anti-semitic views amid a surge of
support for the radical nationalist party Jobbik. The Cabinet
denied the charges.  Jewish Deaths  Orban’s government expanded the reading curriculum for
schools last year to include books by Jozsef Nyiro, a member of
Parliament during World War II and an ally of Ferenc Szalasi, a
former head of the fascist Arrow Cross party who was executed
for  war crimes . More than 500,000 Hungarians, mostly Jews, were
killed in the Holocaust, according to the Budapest-based
Holocaust Memorial Center.  Parliament speaker Laszlo Kover, who co-founded the ruling
Fidesz party along with Orban, last year organized a reburial
ceremony for Nyiro in the ethnic-Hungarian part of northern
 Romania , where the author was born.  Stung by the international criticism, the government
stepped up its fight against anti-semitism, inviting a
delegation from the International Holocaust Remembrance Alliance
in July and sending officials to the U.S. to meet with Jewish
groups. In January, European and Israeli officials from the
Inter-parliamentary Coalition for Combating Antisemitism met
with Hungarian authorities and politicians in Budapest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  