-- Turkey in Talks With Euroclear to Open Lira Bond Market
-- B y   M a h m o u d   K a s s e m   a n d   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 2013-03-20T17:07:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/turkey-in-talks-for-euroclear-to-open-lira-bond-market-this-year.html
Turkey  is in talks with Euroclear
Bank SA to open trading in Turkish debt to international
investors, Istanbul Stock Exchange Chairman Ibrahim Turhan said.  “We’ve had some contact with senior managers of
Euroclear” and “we will have another meeting very soon in
Istanbul,” Turhan said in an interview at an investment
conference in Dubai. “The work is still in progress and very
soon we will have a tangible outcome.”  Euroclear, which operates the world’s biggest bond
settlement system, began direct clearing of Russian debt last
month, allowing foreign access without the need for a local
brokerage account for the first time in a move Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. estimated may bring as much as $30 billion of
inflows. Turkey’s government debt at $289 billion is almost
twice Russia’s $152 billion, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Turkish benchmark  two-year bonds  were the best performers
in major  emerging markets  last year, with yields dropping 483
basis points, or 4.83 percentage points, as Turkey got its first
investment-grade ranking in 18 years in November from Fitch
Ratings. Yields rose one basis points to 6.18 percent at 5:00
p.m. in Istanbul today, leaving them unchanged for 2013. The
lira climbed 0.4 percent to 1.8180 per dollar.  Asian Accounts  “This will surely help to broaden the investor base
further,”  Yarkin Cebeci , an economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co.
in Istanbul, said by e-mail today. “Some of the investors,
especially Asian accounts, have been reluctant to have exposure
in Turkey as Turkish bonds were not Euroclearable.”  Turhan said he hopes talks with Euroclear will be finalized
“before the end of the year.”  “We are speaking with Turkish officials, but it is too
early to provide information on the scope or timeline of any
link with Turkey’s local infrastructure,” Stephan Pouyat,
Euroclear’s head of global reach product management in Brussels,
said in an e-mailed response to Bloomberg.  Euroclear’s impact is unlikely to be as significant as for
Russia because Turkish debt has higher levels of foreign
ownership, according to Esther Law, a London-based emerging-
market strategist at Societe Generale SA.  Foreign ownership of  Russia ’s OFZs will rise to 10 percent
from 6.5 percent in the medium term and to 25 percent in the
long term, the Russian Finance Ministry said on its website Dec.
28. In Turkey, non-residents already hold about 22 percent of
the total debt, based on the $64.8 billion the central bank said
was held by foreign investors on March 8.  “Turkish government securities are traded very well at an
international level,” Turhan said. “It’s one of the deepest
markets in the world in terms of fixed-income securities and the
advantage in Turkey is that government securities are traded at
the exchange.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mahmoud Kassem in Abu Dhabi at 
 mkassem1@bloomberg.net ;
Lyubov Pronina in London at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  