-- Venezuela’s New Devaluation Positive for Bondholders, BofA Says
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 2013-03-20T17:49:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/venezuela-s-new-devaluation-positive-for-bondholders-bofa-says.html
Venezuela’s second devaluation in
less than two months is positive for bondholders as the
government looks to narrow a fiscal deficit fueled by a pre-
electoral spending spree last year, Bank of America Corp. said.  The system of dollar auctions announced yesterday will
enable the government to buy bolivars for less than the official
rate of 6.3 per dollar, Bank of America analysts Francisco Rodriguez, Jane Brauer and Flavio de Andrade said in an e-mailed
report. Venezuela last month devalued the bolivar by 32 percent
to close the 2012 fiscal deficit estimated at 11 percent of
gross domestic product by Moody’s Investors Service.  The February devaluation narrowed the deficit to 6.2
percent of GDP and the new system could reduce that further to
3.9 percent, depending on the average exchange rate established
in the auctions, Bank of America said. The cash-only system is
positive for Venezuela bondholders as it reduces the likelihood
that the government will sell foreign debt to obtain dollars as
it did under the central bank’s previous currency market, known
as Sitme, which was eliminated last month.  “The system will also allow the government to sell some of
its dollars at a weaker exchange rate, ensuring a greater flow
of bolivars to its coffers and further easing fiscal
constraints,” Bank of America said in the report. “We see
these announcements as the continuation of the set of
macroeconomic adjustments that the administration is undertaking
to correct for last year’s pre-electoral spending expansion.”  Former President Hugo Chavez, who died of cancer March 5,
established the Sitme system in 2010 that worked through
swapping local currency bonds for dollar-denominated debt after
he shuttered a similar system operated by bond brokerages. While
the Sitme offered an implicit exchange rate of 5.3 bolivars per
dollar, the unregulated market’s rate was free-floating. The
system of dollar auctions represents a return to flexibility in
the exchange rate, Bank of America said.  “The resulting introduction of a new flexible rate is a
remarkable change for a country that had eliminated all vestiges
of exchange rate flexibility,” Bank of America said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net . 