-- Vestas Opposes Investor Call for Probe Into Accounting Change
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2013-03-20T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/vestas-opposes-investor-call-for-probe-into-accounting-change.html
Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS) , the
unprofitable Danish wind turbine maker, is fighting an attempt
by investors to probe a change in its accounting policy that
they say damaged the company’s share price.  Vestas urged shareholders to vote against the proposal by
Deminor International SCRL/CVBA, which represents about 100
investors, when they  meet  today at the manufacturer’s annual
general meeting in Aarhus. Deminor wants an independent probe
into the accounting-rule change in 2010 and whether it led it to
revise earnings forecasts lower.  “We feel the company has misled investors about its
revenues, its order book and its expectation for future
revenue,” Erik Bomans, managing partner at Deminor in Brussels,
said in a phone interview. “Our clients have purchased shares
at inflated prices during a period which investors were not
informed about the true financial situation of this company.”  Vestas has lost money the past two years, and its shares
have tumbled 79 percent since the company said it was changing
its accounting method on Nov. 22, 2010. The shares declined for
six straight days after that announcement, and also fell after
profit warnings in 2011 and 2012.  A Vestas spokesman referred to a company statement on Jan.
14 recommending shareholders vote against the Deminor proposal.  The proposal concerns “issues which have already been
fully reviewed or otherwise are being investigated by the
board,” Vestas said. “In the opinion of the board, additional
investigations will be unnecessary and only obstruct the work of
the board and impose needless costs on the company.”  Executive Pay  Deminor owns one share in the company, according to Vestas.
Bomans declined to name the investors he represents, saying only
that during the period to which the proposed probe applies, they
owned “several percent” of the shares.  At the annual meeting, Vestas has also advised shareholders
to vote against a proposal by one investor, Uni Chemical
Partners ApS, to cut the pay of board members by 15 percent and
that of Chief Executive Officer  Ditlev Engel  by 50 percent.  The change in accounting rules was announced more than 10
months after their introduction on Jan. 1, 2010. As a result,
instead of booking revenues for unfinished projects in
proportion with their degree of completion, Vestas now waits
until they are built and handed over to clients.  Vestas issued profit warnings in October 2011 and January
2012 before publishing final results for 2011 in February 2012
that undershot the guidance given a month earlier.  The Deminor motion calls for a probe into “whether the
company has been over-optimistic about its revenue guidance and
whether it has sufficiently taken into account a fluctuation
margin to reflect possible later deliveries and transfer of
risks after adoption” of the new rules.  No Sense  Deminor is also seeking an investigation into the
resignation of former Chief Financial Officer Henrik Norremark
in February last year, and the circumstances surrounding an Oct.
2 announcement that Vestas ended his severance agreement because
they uncovered two agreements he reached in  India  that “
neither the Board nor the CEO knew about.”  “They’ve not given the full picture, and that makes
investors suspicious,” Bomans said. “That explains why there
is a big discount on the shares.”  Deminor’s call for a probe needs the approval of a simple
majority of votes at the meeting to succeed, according to
Vestas. Failing that, if holders of 25 percent of the share
capital vote for the proposal, any shareholder may within four
weeks request an investigator to be appointed by a court.  Daniel Patterson, an analyst at SEB AB, said he doesn’t
think the proposal will succeed.  “You’re asking current shareholders to vote for something
that runs the risk of costing current shareholders a lot of
money,” Patterson said. “If this was 2 years ago when the old
board was there, the old management team was there and the old
strategy, maybe it would make sense. But now, when all those
things have been changed and they are well on their way on the
turnaround path, it doesn’t make sense.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  