-- Vietnam Bank Revamp Faces Execution Test as Debt Manager Planned
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-20T17:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/vietnam-to-form-asset-management-firm-this-month-to-resolve-debt.html
Vietnam ’s resolve to clean up its
banking system will be tested by how the government executes
plans to set up a debt asset management company this month that
will take over bad loans from lenders.  The company will be established before the end of the month
and will be managed by the central bank, Le Xuan Nghia, a member
of the National Financial and Monetary Policy Advisory Council,
said in a telephone interview yesterday. The firm will issue
bonds to finance the acquisition of debt from lenders, said
Nghia, who didn’t provide a value.  “Everything depends on the implementation,” said Alain
Cany, Ho Chi Minh City-based co-chairman of the Vietnam Business
Forum Consortium. “If they are serious about finding ways to
capitalize this  asset management company , and they describe what
banks will have to do and what they will receive in exchange and
how the government will mobilize funds, that would be great news
and may get banks lending again.”  Vietnam’s government is under pressure to tackle bad debt
at banks that curbed domestic consumption and dragged economic
 growth  to a 13-year low in 2012, with Prime Minister Nguyen Tan
Dung announcing last week a steering committee to restructure
banks by 2015. The Southeast Asian nation would be emulating
neighbors including  Malaysia  and  China  in setting up entities to
acquire loans from struggling lenders.  To help rescue banks hurt by the 1997-98 Asian financial
crisis, Malaysia formed a state-run bad-loan management company
that sold bonds to help fund the purchase of bad loans from
lenders as defaults rose. China created several funds including
China Cinda Asset Management Co. to buy bad debt from banks as
part of efforts to clean up a 1990s bad-loan crisis.  Troubled Lenders  Ho Chi Minh City Stock Exchange’s benchmark  VN Index (VNINDEX) 
advanced 1.4 percent yesterday to the highest close since Feb.
20. Joint-Stock Commercial Bank for  Foreign Trade  of Vietnam, or
Vietcombank, rose 0.6 percent and  Military Commercial Joint
Stock Bank (MBB) , or Military Bank, gained 0.8 percent.  Dung in February approved a master plan to revamp the
economy, and the central bank last week said it will monitor
troubled lenders, with the option of asking them to submit
restructuring plans or forcing them to merge with other banks.  “The debt asset management company will help clean up
banks’ balance sheets and that will definitely spur banks’
lending to fuel the economy,” Nghia said. “The Politburo has
already approved it, and preparation work is almost finished.”  The  World Bank  said in December the health of Vietnam’s
lenders is a growing concern, citing their deteriorating asset
quality and slow progress in restructuring. A resolution of the
situation faces many challenges, said  Vishnu Varathan , a
Singapore-based Mizuho Corporate Bank economist.  “The central bank is trying to get a sense of the scale
and pervasiveness of the bad debt,” said Varathan. “Publicly,
there doesn’t appear to be a consensus yet on what the numbers
are. Without that, you’re just taking steps in the dark.”  Estimated Cost  The bad-debt ratio at Vietnam’s banks dropped to 6 percent
of total outstanding loans as of Feb. 28, from “about 8
percent” last year, Vu Duc Dam, Chairman of the Government
Office, told reporters last month. The government said last year
it aims to lower the ratio to below 3 percent by 2015.  Fitch Ratings  said in October that it believes the ratio of
non-performing loans is higher than 10 percent and could worsen,
“given the downside risks.” It estimates the cost of
recapitalization of banks may reach 10 percent of the country’s
2012 gross domestic product.  Vietnam’s bank lending dropped 0.28 percent in the January-
to-February period from the end of last year, according to a
posting on the government’s website this week.  The proposed asset management company is an important first
step toward reviving investor confidence in Vietnam, said Pham
Ngoc Bich, managing director of institutional sales at  Saigon
Securities Inc. (SSI)   “This is very positive information for the market, as
investors have been waiting for it for a very long time,” Bich
said. “It will help strengthen the banking system and once the
financial system is strong, it will support the economy.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nguyen Dieu Tu Uyen in Hanoi at 
 uyen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  