-- Vivendi Said to Consider Splitting SFR Unit From Media
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r ,   S e r e n a   S a i t t o   a n d   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s
-- 2013-03-20T17:39:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/vivendi-said-to-consider-splitting-sfr-unit-from-media.html
Vivendi SA (VIV)  is considering splitting
off its biggest unit, telecommunications provider SFR, in a move
that would transform the French conglomerate into a company
focused on its faster-growing media businesses, according to
four people with knowledge of the discussions.  Talks to separate SFR, the French wireless business that
made up almost 40 percent of Vivendi’s 2012  revenue , have gained
momentum since a February board meeting, said one of the people,
who requested anonymity because the deliberations aren’t public.
Under discussion is a proposal for SFR to ultimately retain most
of Vivendi’s  debt , which the company is seeking to reduce as it
focuses on expanding in media, said the people. No final
decision has been made and Vivendi may still settle on an
alternative strategy, the people said.  Discussions on separating SFR have intensified after
Vivendi failed to sell its Brazilian phone and Internet unit,
GVT, because bids came in below the asking price of 8 billion
euros ($10.4 billion). Splitting SFR from Vivendi would put an
end to a media and telecommunications conglomerate that’s unique
in  Europe , as mobile-phone operators struggle to increase sales
amid tough competition.  “A split will take some time to implement and will be a
significant positive especially given the delay in the sale of
GVT stake,” said Saeed Baradar, an equity sales specialist at
 Societe Generale  in  London .  Maroc Telecom  Vivendi in April 2012 considered segregating media from
telecommunications to boost its stock, two months before its
board ousted Chief Executive Officer  Jean-Bernard Levy . The
company then decided to sell assets instead.  Shares of Vivendi jumped as much as 6.2 percent and closed
4.4 percent higher at 16.22 euros in Paris trading.  A separation of the phone from media businesses would take
three to five years to complete and would probably happen after
a sale of Vivendi’s 53 percent stake in  Maroc Telecom SA (IAM) , the
people said. Chairman Jean-Rene Fourtou expects GVT, given time,
may find a buyer at the asking price, or remain in the company,
the people said. Vivendi may ultimately seek a buyer for SFR as
well, they said.  A spokesman for Paris-based Vivendi declined to comment
about a potential split of the business.  Vivendi needs to reduce debt before any split, one person
said. The most likely and imminent way to achieve that is the
Maroc Telecom sale, the person said. Vivendi may choose a buyer
for the holding, valued at about $6 billion on the market,
within weeks, the people said.  Media Investments  Emirates Telecommunications Corp., the Middle Eastern
carrier also known as Etisalat, is a leading contender for the
Maroc Telecom stake while Qatar Telecom QSC and  South Korea ’s KT
Corp. are also weighing a purchase, the people said.  Funds raised from any potential sale or spinoff of the
phone operations would be used to expand its media businesses,
they said.  Vivendi’s media and entertainment assets include  Universal
Music Group , the world’s biggest record company, video-game
maker  Activision Blizzard Inc. (ATVI)  and pay-television provider  Canal
Plus . Last year, Vivendi unsuccessfully sought a buyer for its
stake in Activision Blizzard.  Vivendi completed the 1.2 billion-pound ($1.8 billion)
purchase of EMI Group in September after agreeing to sell off
some European assets to meet conditions set by regulators.  ‘Fire Sales’  The conglomerate’s phone operations had revenue of 15.7
billion euros last year, or 54 percent of Vivendi’s revenue of
29 billion euros, according to regulatory filings. The divisions
contributed about 3.1 billion euros in operating income compared
with 2.3 billion euros for the media divisions.  Chief Financial Officer Philippe Capron said last month the
company won’t hold “fire sales,” and is in no rush even if
some assets take longer to sell.  GVT, which Vivendi acquired for $4.18 billion in 2009 after
trumping a bid from  Spain ’s Telefonica SA, has helped boost
revenue growth at the French company. The operation received
offers from DirecTV, the largest U.S. satellite-TV provider, and
a group of private-equity firms including  KKR & Co. (KKR)  and Apax
Partners LLP, people familiar with the matter said last week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  