-- Volkswagen China Recall May Cost More Than $600 Million
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-20T09:52:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/volkswagen-recalls-384-181-vehicles-in-china-for-gearbox-faults.html
Volkswagen AG (VOW)  recalled a record
number of vehicles in China to replace defective gearboxes that
may result in the loss of acceleration, in a move that may cost
Europe’s largest carmaker more than $600 million.  The recall of 384,181 vehicles, conducted by Volkswagen and
its joint ventures, include the Golf, Magotan, Sagitar and Audi
A3, China’s quality inspector  said  on its website. While
Volkswagen declined to comment on the financial toll, research
firm LMC Automotive estimated the replacements will cost between
3,000  yuan  ($483) to 10,000 yuan per vehicle.  The move is a blow for Volkswagen, which counts China as
its biggest market, as the company sets out to become the
world’s largest automaker by 2018. The recall comes less than a
week after state broadcaster  China Central Television  featured
Volkswagen customers in China complaining about abnormal
vibrations, loss of power and sudden acceleration in cars
equipped with the company’s proprietary gearbox technology.  “It’s always reputationally damaging to have to deal with
an issue that plays out in the public’s eyes,” said  Bill Russo ,
president of auto consultancy Synergistics Ltd. “Will they take
a hit? Of course. The issue is how can they recover from that
and how quickly can they recover.”  21 Models  The company is recalling vehicles with the seven-speed
variety of its direct-shift gearboxes, bearing the cost for
replacing defective equipment and upgrading the software, it
said in an e-mail statement. LMC estimates Volkswagen sold about
680,000 vehicles equipped with the potentially faulty DSG
gearboxes.  “There have been no injuries or accidents reported due to
the DSG gearbox problem, as far as we know,” Volkswagen China
spokesman Christoph Ludewig said.  The recall covers 21 types of vehicles including versions
of the Scirocco, Bora, Touran, Octavia, Passat vehicles produced
as far back as 2008 and as recently as this month, according to
the state inspector’s statement.  For Volkswagen, which sold 4 of  China ’s top 10 selling cars
last year, complaints about its gearbox system in China aren’t
new. In May, the Wolfsburg, Germany-based carmaker agreed to
extend the warranty for the transmission technology to 10 years,
compared with the standard warranty of two years, to address
consumer concerns.  China’s quality inspector said it began investigating
complaints related to faulty Volkswagen gearboxes in March 2012.
Two months later, the company extended its warranty for the
transmission system after several rounds of talks with the
regulator, according to the statement.  Safety Threat  A malfunction of electronics in the gearbox or inadequate
pressure may result in the loss of power, presenting a safety
threat, according to the regulator. Last May, Volkswagen
spokesman Harthmuth Hoffmann said that the reported problems --
noise, vibrations and failure to start in hot and humid weather
-- were “absolutely not a safety issue.”  Volkswagen said today that although an electronic
malfunction or a lack of oil pressure may result in a power
interruption, steering and braking functions wouldn’t be
affected. That means that even if the car loses power on the
road, the driver would be able to safely stop the car, it said.  China’s quality regulator said it interviewed more than
3,000 consumers, received more than 10,000 reports of
faultiness, conducted 12 spot checks and held 7 hearings with
automotive experts before concluding that the Volkswagen
gearboxes were defective and posed a safety concern.  New Laws  The move also comes after China introduced recall laws this
year giving the watchdog broader powers to order investigations
and impose fines on companies that fail to call back faulty
products in a timely manner. The nation’s legislature approved
plans last week to expand the authority of the food and drug
regulator amid growing public discontent over quality and
safety.  Volkswagen and its ventures sold 2.81 million vehicles in
China last year, second only to  General Motors Co. (GM)  among foreign
automakers. The German company and its Chinese partners
generated operating profit of 3.7 billion euros ($4.8 billion)
last year, up by 1.1 billion euros from the previous year.  Other German automakers have also faced scrutiny in the
past week from CCTV, which said it found asphalt in China-made
models of cars made by Volkswagen’s Audi,  Bayerische Motoren
Werke AG (BMW) ’s BMW and  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz.  Pungent Smell  Samples taken from vehicles showed traces of asphalt, a
road-paving material also used for reducing vibrations, CCTV
reported. Owners reported a pungent smell in their cars and
physical symptoms such as dizziness and swollen fingers,
according to the CCTV report.  Representatives from all three companies said they have
started investigations. Audi China spokesman Martin Kuehl said
Audi has the same “strict standards” for all of its parts
globally, and that the locally produced A4L and Q5 models had
passed vehicle air quality tests conducted by the Chinese
authorities.  Daimler spokesman Senol Bayrak said all its vehicles
manufactured in China use only imported NVH damping materials
that comply with existing regulations.  The three German luxury brands command about 74 percent of
China’s luxury segment, according to estimates from researcher
IHS  Global Insight .  While the report might not significantly affect total
luxury car sales, it could push Chinese consumers toward
choosing imported models of luxury marques over models
manufactured in China, according to  John Zeng , Shanghai-based
managing director at LMC Automotive.  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT) ’s Jaguar
Land Rover and Zhejiang Geely Holding Group Co.’s Volvo Cars may
benefit since they focus on imports, he said.  “People will choose the import models, because they
realize that on quality levels, the import models are very
different from locally-made ones,” Zeng said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Alexandra Ho in Shanghai at 
 aho113@bloomberg.net ;
Tian Ying in Beijing at 
 ytian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  