-- Wal-Mart Pushes Senate Against EBay-Led Tax Exemptions
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2013-03-20T14:44:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/wal-mart-pushes-senate-victory-against-ebay-led-exemption.html
Brick-and-mortar retailers like
 Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  see an opportunity to claim victory in a
lobbying duel against online companies that don’t collect  sales
tax  from their customers.  Retailers are urging U.S. senators to take a non-binding
vote this week to demonstrate support for allowing states to
impose sales taxes on out-of-state online sellers. Opponents
including  EBay Inc. (EBAY)  have prevented House or Senate action so far
in a decade-long dispute.  “If this gets 60 votes in the Senate, it’s a pretty
impressive sign,” said Jason Brewer, vice president for
communications and advocacy at the Retail Industry Leaders
Association, a group based in Arlington, Virginia, that
represents companies such as  Target Corp. (TGT)  and  Dollar General
Corp. (DG)  “Just take a look at the political landscape. How many
issues are attracting bipartisan support these days?”  The lobbying has been particularly intense among
Republicans, who face competing pressures. Many of their home-
state governments and local retailers support the bill, as does
 Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , the world’s largest online retailer, which is
expanding its physical presence in many states. Anti-tax groups
including Americans for  Tax Reform  oppose it, maintaining that
the levy would constitute a new type of taxation and let states
reach across their borders.  Procedural Obstacles  Gathering 60 votes for an Internet sales tax is important
for proponents, because that’s the number needed for future
legislation to overcome procedural obstacles in the 100-member
Senate.  Senator  Jeff Sessions  of Alabama, who hadn’t previously
backed the measure, said fellow Republicans had made a “strong
case” to him to support it.  “I think the time may be here for that fix,” Sessions
said in a brief interview yesterday.  The bill would let states collect taxes from out-of-state
sellers, which has been prohibited since a 1992 Supreme Court
decision. The measure includes an exception for smaller online
companies that have gross annual sales of less than $1 million.  Consumers are typically required to pay use taxes to their
home states on purchases they make from out-of-state retailers.
In the 45 states with  sales taxes , relatively few taxpayers file
those returns.  The  National Retail Federation , which supports the bill,
estimates that state and local governments forgo $24 billion a
year in taxes from Internet purchases by residents of their
states.  Budget Resolution  Any vote this week would occur as part of the Senate’s
debate on a budget resolution, a measure that isn’t going
anywhere this year and isn’t used to make binding law. Senator
 Richard Durbin  of Illinois, the leading Democrat on the issue,
said a vote was “possible” this week.  Instead, a test vote would serve as a signal that the
bill’s backers have enough clout to overcome procedural hurdles
in the Senate if they attempt to bring it up later.  Bryan Bieron, senior director of global public policy at
EBay, said the text of the proposal up for a vote may be more
generic than the legislation retailers are promoting.  “It’s certainly different than voting on something that’s
actually got specific recommendations on it,” he said.  A failed Senate vote, or even a decision not to make an
attempt this week, could be a signal that retailers and their
allies in Congress don’t think they have the votes yet.  Big-Box Stores  “Whether it gets 60 votes or 30 votes, I’m convinced that
the big-box stores and state tax collectors will find a way to
get this onto the Senate and House agenda this year,” said
Steve DelBianco, executive director of NetChoice, a coalition
opposing the bill whose members include  Facebook Inc. (FB)  and  Oracle
Corp. (ORCL)   Bieron said the vote would help clarify where individual
senators stand and lead to a more concentrated effort by
affected companies.  The Senate bill, written by Wyoming Republican Mike Enzi,
has 26 co-sponsors as of today. Among the supporters are seven
Republicans, including Wal-Mart’s home-state senator,  John Boozman , and both senators from Tennessee, which relies heavily
on sales taxes because it doesn’t tax individuals’ wages.  Lindsey Graham  of  South Carolina  and  Susan Collins  of Maine
both became co-sponsors in the past week.  Republican Backing  With that Republican backing, if all  Senate Democrats 
support it, that would be enough to gather the 60 votes needed.  Democrats hold eight of 10 U.S. Senate seats in the five
states that don’t levy sales taxes -- Alaska, Delaware, Montana,
New Hampshire and Oregon. Delaware’s Thomas Carper became the
only one of those 10 senators to sign on as a co-sponsor of the
bill on March 18.  Montana Democrat  Max Baucus , chairman of the Senate Finance
Committee, said yesterday that the proposal is “not ready.”  Brewer said backers of the bill face an “uphill battle”
with lawmakers from those non-sales-tax states.  Amazon.com supports the proposal. The company, which is
expanding its physical presence into more states, would be
required to collect taxes in those jurisdictions anyway, giving
it an incentive to seek a national rule that would govern its
competitors with smaller geographic footprints.  Differing Rules  DelBianco said the bill would allow state tax auditors to
reach beyond their borders and require companies to purchase
computer systems to make sure they’re following the differing
state and local sales tax rules.  Companies such as Wal-Mart and  Best Buy Co. (BBY) , he said, are
“large enough to afford the systems to figure this complexity
out.”  The latest versions of the Senate bill include language
that would require states to provide software to sellers if the
state doesn’t join the multi-state Streamlined Sales and Use Tax
Agreement designed to harmonize tax collection.  The bill may be tougher to advance in the Republican-
controlled House. A companion measure in the House has 47 co-
sponsors, including Alabama Republican Spencer Bachus, chairman
of the House Judiciary subcommittee with jurisdiction over the
issue. The lead sponsor is Steve Womack, an Arkansas Republican
whose district includes Wal-Mart’s headquarters in  Bentonville .  Brewer, of the retail group, said companies are using a
free-market argument to appeal to Republicans.  “In a true free market,” he said, “all retailers compete
on price without the government’s thumb on the scale.”  The Senate bill is S. 336. The House bill is H.R. 684.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  