-- Wheat Buying by Bangladesh Seen Climbing as Prices Decline
-- B y   A r u n   D e v n a t h
-- 2013-03-20T07:35:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/wheat-buying-by-bangladesh-to-climb-as-price-drop-boosts-demand.html
  Bangladesh , South Asia’s biggest
wheat importer, may boost purchases by 19 percent this year
after prices fell to an eight-month low, according to the
nation’s Directorate General of Food.  Overseas buying by state agencies, private traders and
flour mills may climb to 2.1 million metric tons in the year
ending June 30 from 1.77 million tons a year earlier, Badrul Hasan, director of procurement, said in a phone interview.  Futures in  Chicago  fell to the lowest level since June on
March 6 on speculation that farmers from  Australia  to  Europe  to
the U.S. will boost harvests as fields recover from drought and
heat waves. Prices will probably drop 16 percent to $6 a bushel
by the end of the year, according to the median of 16 analyst
and trader estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “Falling prices in the global markets may encourage
traders to buy more from overseas in the coming months,” Abul Bashar Chowdhury, chairman of Chittagong-based BSM Group, said
in a phone interview. “The cost will be comparatively low if we
purchase wheat from  India .”  Futures have fallen 23 percent since reaching a four-year
high of $9.4725 in July. The contract for May delivery advanced
0.8 percent to $7.2775 on the Chicago Board of Trade by 3:34
p.m. in  Singapore  today. Prices fell to as low as $6.80 this
month, the cheapest since June 22.  Indian Exports  India, the world’s second-biggest wheat producer,
authorized  exports  of 5 million tons from state reserves by
private companies, Food Minister K.V. Thomas said March 7.
That’s in addition to 4.5 million tons already approved for
shipment by government-run companies since July, he said.  India will be a major source for imports by Bangladesh,
Hasan said from Dhaka yesterday. India is selling wheat mostly
to Southeast Asia, the  Middle East  and  Africa  at prices ranging
from $305 to $315 a ton, displacing supplies from Ukraine and
Australia, according to Veena Sharma, secretary of the Roller
Flour Millers Federation of India.  “Bangladesh’s major sourcing countries will be India and
Canada,” BSM’s Chowdhury said.  Imports fell 14 percent to 1.18 million tons between July 1
and March 7 from a year earlier, according to data from
Bangladesh’s Food Planning and Monitoring Unit.  The Directorate General of Food yesterday sought tenders
for imports of 50,000 tons of wheat, according to a statement on
the agency’s website. Traders have until April 2 to submit bids,
according to the agency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arun Devnath in Dhaka at 
 adevnath@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  