-- White & Case, Baker Botts, Gibson Dunn: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-03-20T12:13:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/white-case-baker-botts-gibson-dunn-business-of-law.html
White & Case  LLP opened an office
in Madrid with the addition of partner Juan Manuel De Remedios,
the former chairman of Latham & Watkins LLP’s corporate
department in  Spain . De Remedios, who will be joined by a local
partner and a team of associates, will be the Madrid office
executive partner.  “The launch of our office in Madrid, led by Juan Manuel,
will support the needs of our clients investing in Spain as well
as Spanish clients expanding globally,” White & Case chairman
Hugh Verrier said in a statement.  De Remedios’s practice will focus on mergers and
acquisitions and capital markets. He will be joined by local
partner Yoko Takagi, whose practice also focuses on mergers and
acquisitions and capital markets.  The Madrid office will advise clients on Spanish, U.S. and
cross-border legal issues of mergers and acquisitions, debt and
 equity capital markets , finance and restructuring. The firm has
more than 60 Spanish-speaking lawyers who work on Spain-related
matters from other offices, White & Case said.  White & Case has lawyers in 39 offices across 27 countries.  Baker Botts Appoints New Litigation Department Chairman  Baker Botts  LLP partner David Sterling, who heads the
firm’s securities litigation practice, will replace Robb Voyles
as chairman of the litigation department, the firm announced
yesterday.  Voyles, who has been department chair since March 2005,
will remain a member of the firm’s executive committee and will
continue with his commercial litigation practice.  “David’s wealth of experience representing clients in
critical situations in a wide array of federal and state
proceedings prepares him to take on the challenge of maintaining
the world-class level our litigation practice has reached during
Robb’s tenure,” Baker Botts managing partner  Andrew Baker  said
in a statement.  During Voyles’ leadership, Baker Botts expanded the
antitrust practice with the recruitment of nearly 40 former
Howrey LLP lawyers in March 2011. Voyles was also key in
orchestrating the opening of the firm’s Brussels office last
fall to continue growing the firm’s antitrust and competition
law practice, according to the firm statement.  Litigation partner Jennifer Smith remains deputy department
chair.  Baker Botts has about 725 lawyers at 14 offices in the
U.S.,  Europe , China and the  Middle East .  Moves  Gibson Dunn Hires Skadden Partner to Head Energy Group  Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP announced that former Skadden,
Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP partner William Scherman has
joined the firm as a partner in the Washington, office, where he
will be chairman of the energy, regulation and litigation group.  Scherman was general counsel of the  Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission  from 1990 to 1993 and was the chief of
staff from 1987 to 1993.  “With his background as FERC’s general counsel and chief
of staff, Bill has unparalleled knowledge and experience in
energy enforcement and litigation,” Andrew Tulumello, co-
partner in charge of  Gibson Dunn ’s Washington office said in a
statement. “His experience in federal government investigations
and enforcement perfectly complements the firm’s strengths in
these areas.”  Scherman advises companies on litigation, commercial,
regulatory and legislative matters relating to the U.S. and
international energy markets. He litigates matters and
represents firms before the FERC and in the federal courts and
he is active in legislative matters, the firm said.  Gibson Dunn has more than 1,100 lawyers at 17 offices in
the Americas, Europe and Asia.  Deals  Baker Botts, Kirkland Among Firms on Liberty Stake in Charter  Baker Botts LLP advised  John Malone ’s  Liberty Media Corp. (LMCA) 
on its agreement to buy about 27 percent of  Charter
Communications Inc. (CHTR)  for about $2.62 billion, betting that the
formerly bankrupt cable company can thrive in an era of digital
services. Kirkland & Ellis LLP represents Charter
Communications.  Liberty will pay $95.50 apiece for about 26.9 million
shares and 1.1 million warrants for Charter’s private-equity
investors Apollo Global Management, Oaktree Capital Management
and Crestview Partners, according to a statement yesterday. The
transaction is expected to close by mid-May.  Paul Weiss Rifkind Wharton & Garrison LLP advised Oaktree.
Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP and Wachtell Lipton Rosen & Katz also
advised the sellers.  Baker Botts partners on behalf of Liberty included Fredrick
H. McGrath, Renee Wilm and John Winter, corporate; Tamar Stanley, tax; and Alison Boren and Robert Murray, finance.  The Kirkland team representing Charter includes corporate
partners Thomas Christopher and David Feirstein, and capital
markets partner Christian Nagler, all in New York.  The Davis Polk deal team includes mergers and acquisitions
partner Paul Kingsley.  The Paul Weiss team included corporate partners Neil Goldman, Kenneth Schneider and Lawrence Wee and tax partner
Richard Bronstein.  Charter, the fourth-largest U.S. cable operator, has been
taking advantage of improving  cash flow  to refinance debt and
add customers through the acquisition of  Cablevision Systems
Corp. (CVC) ’s Optimum West. Its shares have almost tripled since the
end of 2009, when it emerged from  bankruptcy protection  with the
deal that gave the private-equity firms their stakes.  As part of the agreement, Liberty will name four directors
to Charter’s board. Liberty also agreed not to attempt to take
control of Charter. Under the terms of the deal, it won’t
increase its ownership above 35 percent until January 2016 and
40 percent thereafter. Liberty also said it won’t start a proxy
fight for more board seats, so long as its directors maintain
their positions.  While Malone’s Liberty Global has 19.6 million pay-TV,
Internet and phone customers, mostly in Europe, and the
billionaire directly holds a 4.8 percent stake in satellite-TV
company DirecTV, his U.S. cable investments have been limited
since he sold Tele-Communications Inc. to AT&T Inc. in 1999.
Liberty Media holds an undisclosed stake in Time Warner Cable
Inc., the second-biggest U.S. cable company, according to the
annual report of Malone’s company.  For more, click here.  Litigation  ‘Gray Market’ Backed by  Supreme Court  in Win for Orrick Lawyers  The U.S. Supreme Court bolstered the multibillion-dollar
“gray market” for discounted goods, ruling that publishers and
manufacturers can’t block copyrighted items made and sold abroad
from being imported into the U.S.  The justices, voting 6-3, yesterday ruled in favor of a
graduate student who imported  John Wiley & Sons Inc. (JW/A) ’s textbooks
from his native Thailand and sold them in the U.S. for a profit.
A jury awarded Wiley $600,000 in its suit against the student.  “This is an important win for the American consumer,”
Joshua Rosenkranz, a partner at Orrick, Herrington & Sutcliffe
LLP who represented the student, said in a statement. “For 400
years the law has been ‘if you bought it, you own it.’ Somehow,
manufacturers managed to persuade a few courts that this
sensible rule does not apply to foreign-made goods that have
copyright protection -- threatening a U.S. market with an
estimated value of $60 billion annually.”  The case was one of the top business and consumer cases in
the court’s nine-month term, with the potential to affect sales
through  EBay Inc. (EBAY)  and at stores owned by  Costco Wholesale Corp. (COST) 
and  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)   The gray market is the annual trade in tens of billions of
dollars in genuine products outside their official distribution
channels to exploit lower overseas prices. Supporters of the
gray market -- retailers, distributors and consumer advocates --
were battling publishers and manufacturers, which say their U.S.
sales are being illegally undercut.  Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP partner  Theodore Olson  argued
the case for Wiley.  Writing for the court, Justice Stephen Breyer said a ruling
in favor of Wiley would have subjected retailers to “the
disruptive impact of the threat of infringement suits.” Breyer
also said the publishers’ and manufacturers’ position would
“threaten ordinary, scholarly, artistic, commercial and
consumer activities,” rendering libraries unable to circulate
many books printed overseas.  Orrick lawyers who also worked on the case included San
Francisco intellectual property partner Annette Hurst, New York
intellectual property partner Lisa Simpson and New York Supreme
Court and appellate managing associate Brian Ginsberg.  The case is Kirtsaeng v. John Wiley & Sons, 11-697, U.S.
Supreme Court (Washington).  For more, click here.  Class-Action Suits Curbed as High Court Backs Travelers Unit  The U.S. Supreme Court put new constraints on class-action
lawsuits, siding with a  Travelers Cos. (TRV)  unit and undercutting
what companies say is a favorite tactic used by  trial lawyers  to
steer cases to friendly courts.  Under the disputed approach, lawyers agree not to seek more
than $5 million -- the threshold that sends class-action suits
to federal court under a 2005 U.S. law.  The high court unanimously said that type of
“stipulation” isn’t grounds for forcing a case into state
court, where plaintiffs often fare better. Writing for the
court, Justice  Stephen Breyer  said those stipulations have
limited impact because they aren’t binding on other potential
plaintiffs.  “The court’s unanimous decision in Standard Fire enforces
the clear terms of the Class Action Fairness Act to ensure that
class-action plaintiffs cannot manipulate the system by slicing
and dicing claims in order to defeat federal jurisdiction, and
it will prevent the state-court class-action abuses that
Congress intended to prohibit,” Theodore J. Boutrous Jr., co-
chairman of Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP’s appellate practice and
lead appellate counsel who argued for Standard Fire, said in a
statement.  The high court case came from Miller County, in Arkansas’s
southwestern corner. The county is a “magnet jurisdiction,”
where trial lawyers have “dragooned scores of out-of-state
corporations into settling cases for vast sums bearing no
meaningful relationship to their merits,” according to a court
filing by five insurance companies and the Manufactured Housing
Institute, an industry trade group based in Arlington, Virginia.  A group representing Arkansas plaintiffs’ lawyers called
that characterization a “myth.” Since 2000, only 28 class-
action cases have been filed in Miller County, the Arkansas
Trial Lawyers Association said.  David Frederick , a partner at Kellogg, Huber, Hansen, Todd,
Evans & Figel PLLC argued for the plaintiffs.  The case is Standard Fire v. Knowles, 11-1450, U.S. Supreme
Court (Washington).  For more, click here.  Apple May Face Sanctions Over Documents in Privacy Lawsuit  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  may face court-ordered penalties over how it has
handled the process of turning of over documents in a privacy
lawsuit after the iPhone maker was previously scolded for
“unacceptable” conduct.  U.S. Magistrate Judge Paul S. Grewal, at a hearing
yesterday in San Jose, California, invited plaintiffs’ lawyers
in the case to pursue sanctions against Apple after saying that
the company’s document production “has more than doubled since
the court got involved” in policing information-sharing
obligations.  Grewal yesterday questioned Apple about e-mails or
documents from employees that the company turned up only after
the court ordered a review of its document-production process.
Grewal told Apple lawyer Ashlie Beringer, a lawyer at Gibson,
Dunn & Crutcher LLP, that it “doesn’t sound like you did a lick
of work” to double-check whether workers properly determined
which documents shouldn’t be turned over.  “We’ve gone through close to a dozen people that should’ve
come up and didn’t come up” in original requests for
information, Grewal said. “In light of that process, how am I
to have any confidence that the procedure now is any better”
than it was initially, Grewal asked.  The documents at issue “absolutely should’ve been
collected and they were not,” Beringer said. “I was not asking
the right questions” to cull the required evidence, she
explained. “Absolutely that was a failure of management on my
part, one that won’t happen again.”  Beringer said Apple has made “Herculean efforts over the
last two weeks” to rectify the problem, and that after another
filing late last night, the company’s document production is
complete. Beringer declined to comment after the hearing.  Apple is accused in the lawsuit of improperly collecting
data on the locations of customers through iPhones, even after
the device’s geo-location feature was turned off, and sharing
personal information with third parties.  The case is In re Apple Inc. iPhone/iPad Application
Consumer Privacy Litigation, 11-md-02250, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of California (San Jose).  For more, click here.  News  Panel Approves White to Run SEC in Bipartisan Vote  The U.S. Senate Banking Committee approved Mary Jo White’s
nomination to lead the Securities and Exchange Commission on a
bipartisan vote, clearing her way to become the first ex-
prosecutor to lead the agency.  The committee voted 21 to 1 to send White’s nomination to
the full Senate. All of the committee’s Republicans voted for
White.  Sherrod Brown , an Ohio Democrat, was the only senator to
vote against her.  White’s skeptics have been Democrats such as Brown, who
wanted to know how her experience as a defense attorney for  Wall
Street  banks would affect her regulatory philosophy. Her clients
at Debevoise & Plimpton LLP included JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
 Morgan Stanley (MS) , and  UBS AG. (UBS)  She was paid $2.4 million in salary
last year, according to her financial disclosure statement.  If approved by the full Senate, White would serve the
remaining 14 months of a term vacated by  Mary Schapiro , who
stepped down as SEC chairman in December. The term runs through
June 5, 2014.  The full Senate could vote on White’s appointment later
this week. If not, her nomination would be delayed until at
least the week of April 8, when senators return from a two-week
recess.  “I am concerned about the Wall Street bias in this
institution,” Brown told reporters after the vote. “She is
very smart and very aggressive. I hope she proves me wrong that
a person inside Wall Street can do the kind of job we need.”  White, 65, a former U.S. attorney for the southern district
of New York, said at a March 12 Banking Committee hearing on her
nomination that that her work as a defense attorney “doesn’t
mean I embrace the policy thoughts of any of my clients in
particular.”  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 