-- Why Global Economies Face an Age of Deflation
-- B y   A .   G a r y   S h i l l i n g
-- 2013-03-20T22:30:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/why-global-economies-face-an-age-of-deflation.html
In recent years, monetary and
fiscal stimulus across the world have led to the assumption that
serious inflation, if not hyperinflation, is on its way. I
believe chronic deflation is more likely.  The expectation of rising prices is reasonable. Most people
have only experienced inflation. The last meaningful episode of
deflation was in the 1930s. That’s also the last time the U.S.
was truly at peace. Deflation is a peacetime phenomenon.  The U.S.’s bouts of inflation, however, have historically
occurred during wartime. That applies not only to shooting wars,
but to the  Cold War  and the War on Poverty. These are periods
when vast  overspending  by the federal government is combined
with a robust private economy. These aren’t the conditions we
have today, when government stimulus can’t offset private-sector
weakness.  In the 95 wartime years since 1749, wholesale price
increases averaged 5.7 percent. In the 168 peacetime years, they
fell 1.2 percent annually on average. As the U.S. withdraws from
Iraq and  Afghanistan  and as  defense spending  declines, peacetime
conditions are likely to prevail.  Furthermore, we tend to have biases that cloud our
perception of inflation. When we pay higher prices, we think
inflation is at work, but we believe lower prices are a result
of our smart shopping and bargaining skills.  Consumer Prices  Even though deflation has been forestalled in the past
decade, disinflation -- declining rates of inflation -- has
prevailed since the early 1980s. Indeed, the consumer-price
index fell in November and December and was unchanged in
January. For February, the cost of living in the U.S. was up 0.7
percent, the first increase in four months and the biggest since
June 2009. Nonetheless, expectations for inflation over the next
10 years are for a continued drop.  Deleveraging: In a normal economy, chronic deflation would
already be well established. Our global economy, however, is
dominated by deleveraging in the private sector and financial
institutions, and is highly deflationary. These actions are
overpowering the effects of stimulus programs since 2007. Even
with all the government measures, the U.K. is in a recession, as
is the euro area.  China ’s gross-domestic-product growth has
slowed considerably and the U.S. reported a mere 0.1 percent
annual increase in real GDP for the fourth quarter of 2012.  The liquidity created by  central banks  is tiny compared
with the destruction wrought by deleveraging financial
sectors. The decline in securitizations is just one aspect of
this contraction. Banks are eliminating or writing down off-
balance-sheet vehicles substantially. Governments are increasing
 capital requirements  even as banks dump assets to raise  capital
ratios .  Increased Saving: The U.S. household-savings rate fell to 1
percent in 2005 from 12 percent in the early 1980s. This decline
of about one-half a percentage point per year meant that
consumer spending rose on average around a half percentage point
faster than GDP, adding about the same growth to total economic
activity once multiplier effects are included. U.S. imports
drove growth in Asian and other export-led economies.  Americans are now being forced to save more. First, as a
result of the volatility in stocks since 2000, and especially
since 2008 because they no longer trust their equity portfolios
to substitute for savings when it comes to financing their kids’
college educations and their own early retirement.  Home equity 
that once was used to finance spending is no longer available, a
casualty of withdrawals and falling house prices. Job insecurity
encourages saving for contingencies.  Savings Rate  In the years ahead, I expect the half-percentage-point
annual drop in the savings rate to be replaced by a one-
percentage-point annual gain. This would slice 1.5 percentage
points off  consumer-spending  gains as well as GDP growth, after
multiplier effects are accounted for. That alone would drop
aggregate growth to 2.2 percent from the 3.7 percent annual
increases in the period from 1982 to 2000.  Other Deflationary Forces: Fertility rates are below the
replacement level of 2.1 in most industrialized countries, and
populations around the world are aging. As a result, the ratio
of working-age people to total population will shrink, retarding
economic growth. Substandard education systems, especially in
the U.S., restrain productivity growth, employment gains and
economic advances. Instead of investments in education, research
and productivity-enhancing capital equipment, the emphasis has
been on consumer spending, housing and financial assets, which
do little to enhance productivity and can curtail growth.  Deflation also is a result of the huge gap between U.S.
annual real GDP and its potential long-term trend growth. Excess
supply is the root cause of deflation. Declining real median
 household income , even in this recovery, is depressing consumer-
spending power. The same is true of income polarization because
high earners are less likely to spend their money than people
with lower incomes. According to the  Federal Reserve ’s Survey of
Consumer Finances, real median net worth fell 39 percent from
2007 to 2010, the latest available data, yet income polarization
caused the mean to fall just 20 percent. In 1989, mean consumer
net worth was four times the median. It jumped to 6.5 times the
median in 2010.  Increasing protectionism also slows global economic
growth. A recent survey of 3,000 business executives in 25
countries commissioned by  General Electric Co. (GE)  found that 71
percent wanted governments to protect and encourage domestic
innovation. Global trade-liberalization deals have been largely
abandoned in favor of bilateral agreements and narrow compacts
in environmentally friendly technologies and other areas.  Competitive Devaluations  Competitive devaluations are now a serious threat to global
growth and cooperation, as shown by the actions of Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe’s new government in  Japan .  In periods of prolonged economic pain, notably the global
 recession  of 2007-2009 and the subpar revival that has followed,
international cooperation gives way to an every-nation-for-
itself attitude that often takes the form of protectionism. Many
countries are now pursuing competitive devaluations to spur
exports via a cheaper currency and to impede imports.  When all nations competitively devalue, they all lose
because foreign trade is disrupted and economic growth is
depressed. But that doesn’t stop countries from trying to get an
edge. Most, however, will probably end up devaluing against the
 U.S. dollar , the premier currency.  Commodity Deflation: On balance, commodity prices have been
falling since early 2011. They will continue to drop, especially
if a shock, such as a Middle East crisis, drives up  oil
prices . Prices for industrial commodities should be further
depressed by rising inventories. After the earlier drought-
related surge in grain prices, farmers in the U.S. and elsewhere
will plant more, and can expect record harvests in 2013, weather
permitting. This may help explain the recent decline in grain
prices.  As for crude oil, I believe the “peak oil” devotees are
far too pessimistic. High prices are the best predictor of
increasing supply. Technological improvements are making it
easier to discover new fields and to increase production from
existing ones. Hydraulic fracturing and other new technologies
for extracting natural gas from shale have increased supply and
lowered prices.  Wage and Income Deflation: The continuing decline in
purchasing power produced by shrinking real wages and real
incomes is also putting downward pressure on prices. Nominal pay
is dropping, too. For about a third of those who find jobs after
being unemployed six months or more, the new position pays less
than the last job held. This is primarily the result of the
recession and the sputtering recovery that slashed demand for
labor. Globalization, which moves production to lower-cost
locales, also plays a role. Furthermore, U.S. businesses are
using cost cutting to improve profit margins rather than using
pricing power and sales-volume growth.  Labor Power  The downward pressure on compensation is connected to the
rapid erosion of labor-union power. In 2012, unions lost 400,000
members, or 2.7 percent, and their representation in the  labor
force  fell to 9.3 percent, from 9.6 percent in 2011 and more
than 25 percent in the 1960s. In the private sector,
unionization fell to 6.3 percent, with the sharpest declines in
manufacturing and construction.  More states are passing right-to-work laws, which allow
employees in unionized workplaces to opt out of paying union
dues. In the past year, private-sector employees in right-to-
work states earned 9.8 percent less than workers in other
states.  Manufacturing jobs  pay 7.4 percent less in right-to-work
states. On the other hand, the number of jobs in such states
grew 4.9 percent in the past three years, compared with 3.9
percent in non-right-to-work states.  Municipal governments are under pressure to cut
costs. Local tax collection is subdued because of earlier
declines in property assessments and taxes, which account for 79
percent of revenue. State tax collections have revived, thanks
to increases in corporate and personal income taxes and in sales
taxes. Yet many states still face budget problems because of the
fading effects of the federal stimulus enacted in 2009, which
was used for infrastructure projects and to preserve teachers’
jobs. In addition, the Medicaid costs borne by the states are
ballooning, and temporary taxes instituted during the recession
are expiring. Vastly underfunded defined-benefit pensions are
also fueling state and local government retrenchment.  In response, many states continue to cut spending and
jobs. Labor costs, which account for half of state and local
spending, are being targeted because of their total size and
because government employees are paid 44 percent more on average
than private-sector workers, 32 percent more in wages and 71
percent more in benefits per hour worked. In terms of income,
this implies that the loss of two state and local jobs is
equivalent to almost three layoffs in the private sector.  (A. Gary Shilling is president of A. Gary Shilling & Co.
and the author of “The Age of Deleveraging: Investment
Strategies for a Decade of Slow Growth and Deflation.” The
opinions expressed are his own. This is the first in a five-part
series. Read  Part 2  and  Part 3 .)  To contact the writer of this article:
A. Gary Shilling at  insight@agaryshilling.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  