-- WTI Fluctuates After Biggest Gain in Two Weeks as Supplies Drop
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s   a n d   R a m s e y   A l - R i k a b i
-- 2013-03-21T05:26:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/wti-fluctuates-after-biggest-gain-in-two-weeks-as-supplies-drop.html
West Texas Intermediate oil swung
between gains and losses after the biggest advance in two weeks
as U.S. crude stockpiles unexpectedly fell and manufacturing
accelerated in  China .  Futures fluctuated in  New York  after rising 0.9 percent
yesterday. China’s manufacturing is expanding at a faster pace
than forecast this month as production and orders increase, a
private survey showed. U.S. crude inventories declined by  1.3
million barrels  last week, the first drop in two months, an
Energy Department report showed. Supplies were forecast to climb
2 million barrels in a Bloomberg News survey.  The China manufacturing data “should reassure the market
that China is not slipping back into a recession, boding well
for an oil-price rebound,” said  Gordon Kwan , the head of energy
research at Mirae Asset Securities Ltd. in  Hong Kong .  WTI for May delivery was at $93.27 a barrel in electronic
trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , down 23 cents, at
1:16 p.m. Singapore time. The volume of all futures traded was
53 percent below the 100-day average. The April contract, which
expired yesterday, closed 80 cents higher at $92.96.  Brent for May settlement on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange slid 4 cents to $108.68 a barrel. The volume of
all futures traded was 41 percent below the 100-day average. The
European benchmark grade was at a premium of $15.41 to WTI. The
gap was $14.93 on March 19, the narrowest since July.  Cushing Supplies  The preliminary reading of a  Purchasing Managers ’ Index for
China was 51.7 in March, according to a statement from HSBC
Holdings Plc and Markit Economics today. That’s higher than a
50.4 final reading for February and a 50.8 median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey of 11 economists. A reading above 50
indicates expansion. China is the world’s second-largest oil
consumer after the U.S.  Crude stockpiles at Cushing,  Oklahoma , the biggest U.S.
storage hub and the delivery point for WTI contracts, shrank by
286,000 barrels last week to 49 million, according to the Energy
Department report. It was a second weekly decrease and the
lowest level since the week ended Dec. 14.  The data for total supplies may have been distorted by the
West Coast, which registered the largest decline at 2.75 million
barrels. The inventory change in the area is sometimes
disregarded by traders because the region’s distribution system
is isolated from the rest of the U.S., Tariq Zahir, a New York-
based commodity fund manager at Tyche Capital Advisors, said
yesterday. Excluding the West Coast, total U.S. stockpiles rose
by 1.44 million barrels.  Iran Sanctions  U.S. gasoline inventories slid by  1.5 million barrels  last
week, the government report showed. They were forecast to fall
by 2 million, according to the median estimate of 11 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. Distillate-fuel supplies, including
heating oil and diesel, decreased by 672,000 barrels, compared
with a projected fall of 1 million in the survey.  Tensions over Iran’s nuclear ambitions appear to be easing.
Talks last month over the uranium-enrichment program that led to
sanctions on the country’s oil exports marked a “turning
point,” said  Mohammad Khazaee , the Islamic Republic’s
ambassador to the  United Nations .  World powers meeting in Almaty,  Kazakhstan , last month
seemed “more realistic” about Iran’s position that it has a
right to enrich uranium for peaceful use, Khazaee said in an
interview March 18 at Bloomberg’s headquarters in New York. The
U.S., the U.K.,  France ,  Germany , China and  Russia  proposed the
easing of sanctions on Iran’s petrochemicals and gold trade in
exchange for it ceasing production of medium-enriched uranium,
according to officials involved in the talks.  Technical Resistance  Oil in New York may decline after failing to breach
technical resistance yesterday along the middle Bollinger Band,
data compiled by Bloomberg showed. Front-month futures have
traded near this indicator, around $94.10 a barrel today, the
past four days without settling above it. Sell orders tend to be
clustered close to chart-resistance levels.  “A break above the $95-a-barrel area requires some pretty
positive news because it is a reasonably significant
resistance,” said Ric Spooner, a chief market analyst at CMC
Markets in Sydney.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Ramsey Al-Rikabi in Singapore at 
 ralrikabi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mike Anderson  at   manderson34@bloomberg.net  