-- Yahoo Buys Jybe as Portal Adds Engineers Via Acquisitions
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2013-03-20T18:25:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/yahoo-rehires-five-employees-buying-recommendation-startup-jybe.html
Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO) , the largest U.S. Web
portal, said it acquired Jybe Inc., which offers personalized
recommendations for users based on data from social networks.  Terms of the deal aren’t being disclosed, Sunnyvale,
California-based Yahoo said today in a statement. Separately,
Yahoo is in talks to buy a stake of as much as 75 percent in
 France Telecom SA (FTE) ’s Dailymotion video site, which is valued at
about $300 million, the Wall Street Journal reported yesterday,
citing unidentified people.  Chief Executive Officer  Marissa Mayer  is focusing Yahoo on
providing Web services that are customized for individual users,
and aims to add engineers by buying small technology startups,
she said on a conference call last year. Yahoo has acquired at
least five such teams -- including Stamped Inc., OntheAir,
Snip.it and Alike -- since Mayer took over in July.  Yahoo is taking on five Jybe employees, all of whom once
worked for the Internet portal, Yahoo Senior Vice President Jay
Rossiter  said  in a blog post today.  One of them, Arnab Bhattacharjee, formerly led Yahoo’s
search technology, “one of the most well-respected engineering
and platforms groups in the company,” Rossiter said.  Tom Wright , a France Telecom spokesman in Paris, declined
to comment on a possible sale of Dailymotion. Sara Gorman, a
spokeswoman for Yahoo, also wouldn’t discuss potential deals.  Mayer has said she sees the company building sites and
technologies that are daily habits for consumers, such as
checking e-mail and stock tickers. In January, she said she’s
focused on technology that will personalize content from the Web
and deliver it to people on their handheld devices.  “We think about how do we take the Internet and order it
for you,” Mayer said. Yahoo intends to be “a feed of
information that is ordered, the Web is ordered for you and is
also on your mobile phone.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  