-- Yen Rises as Japan’s Trade Gap Narrows Before Kuroda Briefing
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 2013-03-21T08:44:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-20/yen-lower-after-declines-versus-majors-as-kuroda-easing-imminent.html
The yen rose against the dollar,
snapping a decline from yesterday, after  Japan ’s trade deficit
narrowed more than economists forecast and as markets await
Haruhiko Kuroda’s first press briefing as central bank governor.  Japan’s currency appreciated versus all except one of its
16 major counterparts after Kuroda told reporters he would talk
about monetary policy at a news conference at 6 p.m. in  Tokyo .
The euro fell against the dollar after Cypriot President Nicos Anastasiades met advisers to draft a new plan to stave off
financial collapse. Euro-area manufacturing and services output
both contracted in March, economists said before a report today.  “There are two big events coming up, the European output
data and the speech by the new governor of the  Bank of Japan (8301) ,”
said Niels Christensen, chief currency strategist at Nordea Bank
AB in Copenhagen. “The new governor’s speech will be
scrutinized and if he doesn’t hint at anything then there may be
some disappointment for the market and the yen may strengthen.”  The yen rose 0.2 percent to 95.80 per dollar at 8:40 a.m.
in London after sliding 0.9 percent yesterday. Japan’s currency
gained 0.5 percent to 123.56 per euro. The euro declined 0.3
percent to $1.2897.  The yen has fallen 7.4 percent this year, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes that track 10 developed-
market currencies, amid speculation the new BOJ leadership will
heed Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s call for additional monetary
easing. The euro gained 0.7 percent and the dollar strengthened
3.3 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in  London  at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  