-- L.A. Prosecutors to Review Evidence in Bryson Incident
-- B y   A n t h o n y   P a l a z z o
-- 2012-07-03T05:24:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/l-a-prosecutors-to-review-evidence-in-bryson-incident.html
Los Angeles  County prosecutors are
reviewing police evidence in former Commerce Secretary  John Bryson ’s traffic accidents last month to determine whether to
file charges.  “We are not discussing the evidence, we are reviewing
it,” Sandi Gibbons, a spokeswoman for the Los Angeles District
Attorney’s Office said in a telephone interview. “Once we make
a determination we will let everybody know.”  Bryson resigned as Commerce Secretary on June 21, two weeks
after he was involved in two car accidents near Los Angeles that
left him unconscious at the wheel of his  Lexus . Bryson was
treated for a  seizure .  Police in San Gabriel,  California , where one of the
accidents occurred, presented the case to the District
Attorney’s office yesterday, Gibbons said.  Police were awaiting blood tests to confirm Bryson wasn’t
under the influence of any substances, San Gabriel Police
Lieutenant Daniel Russo said on June 21. Bryson passed field
tests for alcohol use at the scene and police at the time didn’t
suspect drugs were involved.  Bryson, 68, “appeared disoriented” on June 9 after his
car rear-ended a Buick that had stopped to wait for a train to
clear a four-lane road east of downtown Los Angeles in San
Gabriel, police officials said then, citing the occupants of the
Buick. Bryson struck the vehicle a second time as he left the
scene, prompting the Buick’s driver to follow and call the 911
emergency line.  After driving south for about 1.9 miles (3 kilometers),
Bryson struck a Honda Accord in Rosemead, about 5:10 p.m.,
causing minor injuries to the passengers. He was found alone and
unconscious at the scene by police. There was no indication
alcohol or drugs were involved, police said.  Bryson is the former chairman and chief executive officer
of  Edison International (EIX) , the utility company based in Rosemead.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony Palazzo in Los Angeles at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  