-- A More Perfect Union, Built on Shared Debt
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-07-03T22:30:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/a-more-perfect-union-built-on-shared-debt.html
As Americans pause this Fourth of
July to reflect on their independence, it’s worth casting a
thought across the Atlantic. One story from America’s founding
era, in particular, keeps reminding us of modern-day  Europe .  Recall that during and after the American Revolution,
public spending soared. Without the power to directly tax, the
Continental Congress had to print and borrow money to meet its
obligations.  Printing bills of credit led to inflation: From 1779 to
1781, prices increased nearly 10-fold. By 1790, the nation’s
total outstanding debt had soared to  $77.1 million , or  roughly
40 percent  of economic output.  Civic administration was a mess. Foreign governments held
America’s IOUs -- and its leaders -- increasingly in disdain.
Congress was hopelessly ineffectual. Secession was in the air.  Then, in 1788, the U.S. Constitution was ratified, giving
Congress the power to tax. And beginning in 1790,  Alexander Hamilton , the nation’s first Treasury secretary, proposed a
series of solutions to tame the fiscal chaos.  Assuming Debts  He suggested funding the national debt by buying back
previously issued (and now devalued)  government securities  at
full value, using new bonds backed by credible tariff revenue.
More controversially, he proposed that the federal government
assume the debt burden of the states, which amounted to about a
third of the nation’s total.  James Madison , Hamilton’s chief congressional adversary,
was wary of both ideas. Offering face value for government debt
would privilege speculators over the war veterans who had sold
their devalued securities at pennies on the dollar. Assuming
debts would not only force states that had paid off their
obligations to bail out those that hadn’t, it would lead to
encroaching federal dominion.  Madison was advancing the views of many Southerners, who
feared they would soon be under the thumb of a distant and
unaccountable power.  Many considered the debate over assumption itself a threat
to the republic. But a bargain was haltingly reached: Congress
would approve Hamilton’s funding and assumption proposal, and,
to appease Madison and other skittish Southerners, the nation
would eventually move its capital from  New York  City to a new
site on the Potomac River.  It worked. The economy prospered under the deal, exports
surged, and  U.S. debt  was brought under control. As a result, it
was soon in great demand: By 1794, the U.S. had a  credit rating 
equal to or better than any European country.  Admittedly, the analogy is inexact, but the discord in the
early days of the American republic and today’s  European debt
crisis  have some revealing similarities. In both the U.S. of
1790 and the euro area of today, provident states opposed
bailing out profligate ones. States accustomed to sovereignty
resented an intrusive new power. Anxious voters clamored for a
clean break rather than a tighter union.  Yet, in both cases, the real choice was between deeper
consolidation and catastrophe for all involved.  We’ve argued that there remains only one long-term solution
to Europe’s interminable woes, and that’s a far tighter union,
one that includes a fiscal authority with the power to oversee
national taxing and spending plans, the issuance of bonds
jointly guaranteed by all  member states , and a political union
to grant it legitimacy. Only with all the union’s states
collectively dedicated to backing banks and sovereign debt will
investors return to Europe with confidence.  Last week, European leaders took a promising step when they
agreed in principle to allow the continent’s permanent bailout
fund to directly recapitalize teetering banks, after
establishing a banking union overseen by a supranational
supervisor.  Voters haven’t exactly embraced this course. That’s why
euro-area leaders must now convince them that it’s necessary:
However distasteful, a closer union will avoid a chaotic break
and years of turmoil. It will create a large new market in euro
bonds to attract investors. And it will, ideally, begin to
create a deeper European unity.  As Hamilton correctly predicted in 1781, “A national debt,
if it is not excessive, will be to us a national blessing. It
will be a powerful cement to our union.”  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 