-- Tencent to Set Up Online Game Tie-Up With Activision
-- B y   M a r k   L e e   a n d   K e l l y   B l e s s i n g
-- 2012-07-03T19:20:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/activision-gains-on-call-of-duty-tencent-china-pact.html
Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700) , China’s
biggest Internet company, set up a licensing agreement with
 Vivendi SA (VIV) ’s  Activision Blizzard Inc. (ATVI)  video-game unit to win
players in the world’s biggest online market.  The companies will offer Activision’s “Call of Duty” for
online users in China, according to information on the Chinese
company’s website yesterday.  The agreement marks a significant expansion for “Call of
Duty.” The game is expected to be competitive with Tencent’s
top-selling title “Crossfire,” which generates about $1
billion in sales annually for the company,  Michael Pachter , a
Los Angeles-based analyst for Wedbush Securities Inc., said.  “My guess is that it will ramp up to $500 million in
annualized revenue at the end of its first full year,” Pachter
said in telephone interview yesterday.  Tencent is boosting sales of online games in China and
overseas markets such as South Korea, helped by acquisitions
including last year’s takeover of U.S. studio Riot Games Inc.
The Shenzhen, China-based company is the  second-best performer 
in Hong Kong’s benchmark  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  this year as it
diversifies into services for smartphone users and e-commerce.  Vivendi, which also owns Universal Music Group and phone
divisions in France, Morocco and Brazil, has decided to seek a
buyer for its stake in Activision Blizzard, a person with
knowledge of the situation said last week. Activision, based in
 Santa Monica , California, licenses games including “World of
Warcraft” to NetEase Inc., China’s second-biggest online games
company.  ‘Exciting Place’  “We think China is one of the most exciting places in the
world for us to grow our business and to develop innovative new
games,” Bobby Kotick, chief executive officer of Activision,
said in yesterday’s statement.  Activision  increased  4.3 percent to $12.46 at the close in
New York yesterday. Vivendi fell 0.4 percent to 14.87 euros in
Paris trading yesterday. Tencent rose 2.7 percent to close at
HK$232 in Hong Kong yesterday before the announcement, valuing
the company at HK$427.8 billion ($55 billion).  Tencent has this year outperformed the stocks of Chinese
Internet rivals including  Baidu Inc. (BIDU) , China’s biggest search-
engine company, and  NetEase Inc. (NTES) , the second-biggest domestic
online games operator.  Market Share  Tencent accounted for 43.6 percent of China’s online game
market by revenue in the first quarter, according to a May 24
report by BOCOM International. NetEase followed with a 15
percent market share, according to the report.  Tencent’s “League of Legends” game is the most popular
title in South Korea with a market share of 21 percent,
according to a May 12 report by Barclays Capital. The Chinese
company last year paid $231.5 million in cash, in addition to
 stock options , for 70 percent of Riot Games, the developer of
“League of Legends.”  Last month, Tencent said it agreed to buy a minority stake
in U.S. gamemaker Epic Games, developer of “Gears of War” and
“Infinity Blade.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net ;
Kelly Blessing in New York at 
 kblessing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  