-- Eletropaulo Falls Most in Bovespa on Electricity Rate Cut
-- B y   M a r i o   S e r g i o   L i m a   a n d   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 2012-07-03T21:56:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/aes-brazil-unit-eletropaulo-s-tariffs-reduced-9-by-regulator.html
Eletropaulo Metropolitana
Eletricidade de Sao Paulo SA  fell the most among stocks in
 Brazil ’s benchmark index on prospects that an electricity rate
cut will curtail earnings and dividend payments.  Eletropaulo, the Brazilian distribution unit of  AES Corp. (AES) ,
tumbled 10 percent to an almost four-year-low of 22.96 reais.
The Bovespa index rose 2 percent.  Brazil’s power regulator Aneel cut the amount Eletropaulo
charges customers by 9.3 percent as President Dilma Rousseff’s
government seeks to stem inflation and boost growth. The
decrease means Eletropaulo probably won’t be able to pay
dividends, said Ricardo Correa, an analyst at Rio de Janeiro-
based brokerage Ativa SA.  “The cut is big and because it was delayed, the entire
earnings of this past year will be impacted,” Correa said today
by telephone. “That means there will be rather small cash
generation this year.”  A regulatory audit had recommended an 8.8 percent
reduction. The quadrennial review was delayed by a year as the
regulator discussed a new system of revising prices.  The decrease comes into effect tomorrow, Aneel Director
Nelson Hubner said in an interview yesterday in Brasilia. The
average inflation-adjusted impact for consumers will be a 2.3
percent decline, Aneel said in a separate announcement today.  Dividend Yield  The ruling prompted  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  to trim
Eletropaulo’s 12-month share price estimate to 20.55 reais from
36.30 reais.  Santander forecast a 60 percent decline in earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization over the next
year and kept its rating at underperform amid prospects that
dividends will “almost disappear,” analysts Marcio Prado,
Danilo Vitti and Carolina Carneiro, said in a client note today.  “Eletropaulo’s fundamentals have deteriorated
significantly with the confirmation of a tough tariff
revision,” the Santander analysts wrote.  The stock has lost 37 percent this year compared with the
Bovespa’s 1.5 percent decline.  Eletropaulo, based in  Sao Paulo , has the highest dividend
yield among Brazilian companies worth $500 million or more,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mario Sergio Lima in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 mlima11@bloomberg.net ;
Rodrigo Orihuela in Rio de Janeiro at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  