-- Aetna Sued by California Doctors Alleging Retaliation
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-07-03T23:14:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/aetna-sued-by-california-doctors-alleging-retaliation.html
Aetna Inc. (AET) ’s  California  health
insurer was sued by a group of doctors, surgery centers and an
unidentified patient who said the company retaliates against
patients who use out-of-network providers.  “Aetna retaliates against patients by making threatening
telephone calls and sending threatening letters if they attempt
to use their out-of-network benefits, by not authorizing care at
out-of-network providers, and by grossly underpaying those out-
of-network providers,” the groups said in a complaint filed
today in California state court in  Los Angeles .  The insurer also has terminated the contracts of doctors
who refer patients with out-of-network benefits to out-of-
network providers, according to the complaint. The plaintiffs,
including the Los Angeles County Medical Association, accuse
Aetna of unfair business practices and false advertising, among
other claims, and ask for unspecified damages.  “We have sued some of these same doctors and surgery
centers named in this suit for their egregious billing
practices,”  Cynthia Michener , a spokeswoman for Hartford,
Connecticut-based Aetna, said in an e-mailed statement. “This
is a countersuit disguised as a class-action lawsuit.”  Aetna sued Bay Area Surgical Management and seven ancillary
facilities and their principals in February, claiming physicians
sent Aetna members to facilities without telling them they had
an ownership interest and were getting paid by the facilities
for their referrals, according to the insurer’s statement.  The case is Los Angeles County Medical Association v. Aetna
Health of California, BC487670, Los Angeles County Superior
Court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 