-- Lagarde Says She’s Not in Mood for Greek Renegotiation
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   F a i r c h i l d
-- 2012-07-03T20:07:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/lagarde-says-she-s-not-in-mood-for-greek-renegotiation.html
International Monetary Fund Managing
Director  Christine Lagarde  said she is not in the mood to
renegotiate the terms of  Greece ’s bailout agreement.  “I am not in a negotiation or renegotiation mood at all,”
Lagarde said in an interview on CBNC television today. “We are
in a fact-finding mood.”  Officials from the IMF,  European Central Bank  and the
European Commission begin a visit to Greece tomorrow to assess
the country’s progress in implementing the terms of its second
international bailout, commission spokesman Simon O’Connor told
reporters in Brussels. Greece will tell its creditors that high
unemployment and recession necessitate changes to the country’s
bailout agreement, government spokesman Simeon Kedikoglou said.  “I’m sure that they will have excellent numbers to show in
various directions,” Lagarde said in the CNBC interview. “I’m
very interested in seeing what has been done in the last few
months in terms of complying with the program.”  Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras put together a
coalition government after his New Democracy party won June 17
elections on pledges to renegotiate parts of the 130 billion-
euro ($164 billion) second bailout from the European Union and
the IMF. An inconclusive poll on May 6 led to the June vote and
fanned concern over a Greek euro exit.  Last month, an IMF spokesman said a fund team may start
negotiating possible changes to the conditions attached to the
loan to Greece after the fact-finding mission visits  Athens .  Program Objectives  “The objectives of the program as agreed remain the basis
for those discussions,” IMF spokesman Gerry Rice told a news
briefing on June 28. “If the new government has ideas on how
those program objectives can be achieved, we’re open to those
discussions.”  In today’s interview on CNBC, Lagarde said that “it’s not
enough” for  Europe  to plan a banking union. “We think that
fiscal union is the next step that they need to explore,”
Lagarde said.  The IMF chief said “maybe one day” there will be one
single debt agency for the whole euro zone, and “maybe one of
these days” one single finance minister for the region bound by
a common currency.  “It’s not going to happen overnight, but it would clearly
take that monetary union towards a much more united territory,”
she said.  European stocks climbed, posting their biggest three-day
rally this year.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  climbed 1 percent to 257.39 at
the close, completing a three-day gain of 5.2 percent, the
gauge’s biggest since November. The benchmark measure has
rallied 10 percent from this year’s low on June 4 as euro-area
leaders opened the door to directly recapitalizing lenders using
the European Stability Mechanism, the currency zone’s permanent
bailout fund.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Fairchild in  New York  at 
 cfairchild2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  