-- Air India Pilots to End 58-Day Strike Over 787 Training
-- B y   P r a t a p   P a t n a i k   a n d   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 2012-07-03T14:47:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/air-india-pilots-to-end-58-day-strike-over-787-training.html
A group of  Air India  Ltd. pilots, who
stayed away from work for 58 days because of a dispute over the
right to fly new  Boeing Co. (BA)  787 planes, told a court today they
are ending their strike.  The strike will be called off without any conditions, the
Indian Pilots’ Guild said in an affidavit to the Delhi High
Court. The pilots and Air India’s management agreed to meet on
July 5 to discuss the matter.  As many as 434 members of the Guild have stayed away from
work since May 7, protesting the carrier’s decision to give
training on the Dreamliners to captains belonging to Indian
Airlines, a domestic carrier that merged with Air  India  in 2007.
The strike prompted the airline to fire as many as 101 pilots
and pare overseas flights.  “The resolution of such human resources issues is central
to Air India’s turnaround,” said Binit Somaia, a Sydney-based
director at CAPA Centre for Aviation, an industry consultant.
“The integration has been badly managed.”  The Guild argued that the new Boeing planes, ordered by Air
India before the merger, should be flown by its pilots. All the
43 Airbus SAS planes bought by Indian Airlines are operated by
pilots from that company even after the merger, it said. Air
India has about 1,500 pilots.  The government is willing to consider grievances of the
pilots, including reinstatement of those terminated by Air
India, Civil Aviation Minister Ajit Singh said in a statement
today. Singh said he hopes the pilots will call off the strike
immediately and rejoin work within 48 hours.  Flight Cuts  Air India reduced overseas flights to 38 a day from 45
after the strike began. Last month, the carrier also advertised
for captains on five-year contracts.  The airline is set to start receiving its 27 on-order
Dreamliners. Chairman Rohit Nandan said in Beijing on June 11
the deliveries are imminent, after Air India deferred plans amid
talks with Boeing for compensation over previous delays.  India’s government may provide as much as 300 billion
rupees ($5.5 billion) through 2020 to Air India. The state-run
carrier has posted a loss every year since the 2007 merger.  Airlines in India are struggling to convert rising travel
demand into profits because of high fuel costs and a price war.
Closely-held discount carrier IndiGo is the only profitable
company among the country’s six operators.  Industrywide losses by the nation’s airlines totaled more
than $2 billion in the year ended in March, according to CAPA.
That may narrow to as much as $1.4 billion in the current fiscal
year, CAPA said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pratap Patnaik in  New Delhi  at 
 ppatnaik2@bloomberg.net ;
Karthikeyan Sundaram in New Delhi at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  