-- Mammoth Lakes, California, Seeks Bankruptcy Protection
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h   a n d   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2012-07-04T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/mammoth-lakes-california-files-for-bankruptcy.html
Mammoth Lakes , the High Sierra
mountain resort, became the second  California  municipality in a
week to seek court protection from creditors, filing bankruptcy
to shield itself from a $43 million court judgment.  Mammoth Lakes listed assets of more than $100 million and
debt of more than $50 million in papers filed yesterday in
 Sacramento , California, under Chapter 9 of the U.S.  Bankruptcy
Code , which is reserved for public entities such as cities,
counties and special taxing districts.  The town council voted to seek bankruptcy protection after
its largest creditor, Mammoth Lakes Land Acquisition, won a
court order requiring the town to pay the judgment by June 30,
according to a  statement  on the town’s website. Under Chapter 9,
a municipality can halt court actions against it while seeking
to reorganize its finances. The tactic is common among
corporations that file so-called Chapter 11 bankruptcies.  “Bankruptcy, unfortunately, is the only option that the
town is left with,” town officials said in the statement.  The filing comes six days after the northern California
city of Stockton filed for bankruptcy with plans to try to
impose cuts on bondholders and employees. Vallejo, California,
filed for bankruptcy in 2008 and used court protection to cut
retiree benefits, renegotiate labor contracts and reduce the
interest paid to lenders. The city exited bankruptcy last year.  Biggest Creditor  The biggest creditor listed in the Mammoth Lakes case is
Mammoth Lakes Land Acquisition, which won a $30 million judgment
against the town that has since grown to $43 million with
interest and legal fees. The  California Public Employees’
Retirement System , or Calpers, the largest U.S. pension fund, is
the second-largest unsecured creditor, owed $4.2 million.  Mammoth Lakes, a ski resort community of 8,200 near
Yosemite National Park, has an annual budget of $19 million.  Mammoth Lakes Land Acquisition refused to participate in
mediation between Mammoth Lakes and its creditors, according to
a statement on the town’s website. That mediation, required
under California law, is designed to help cities and counties
avoid bankruptcy.  The company sued the town in 2006 and accused it of
breaching a development agreement allowing the company to build
homes, retail space, hangars and other structural improvements
near the Mammoth Yosemite Airport.  In 2008, a state court awarded the company $30 million,
which the town appealed. An appeals court sided with the
developer, and the California Supreme Court refused to hear the
case last year.  Compromise Sought  The company has tried to reach a compromise with the town,
said Daniel L. Brockett, a partner at Quinn Emanuel Urquhart &
Sullivan LLP in  New York , which represented the developer.  The town rebuffed the developer’s offer for $2.7 million
annual payments over 30 years, Brockett said in a telephone
interview.  “There was no point in us participating in the
mediation,” he said. “The mediation was simply so they could
check off a box before going to  bankruptcy court .  “They just keep putting their heads in the sand and hoping
that some guy in a black robe will bail them out.”  The case is In re Town of Mammoth Lakes, 12-32463,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court  for the Eastern District of California
(Sacramento).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net ;
James Nash in  Los Angeles  at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  