-- ANA Beats JAL to Market With 211 Billion Yen Share Sale
-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r   a n d   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a
-- 2012-07-04T10:00:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/ana-beats-jal-to-market-with-211-billion-yen-share-sale.html
All Nippon Airways Co. (9202) , Japan’s
largest carrier, announced a 211 billion yen ($2.6 billion)
share sale as it seeks new funds before Japan Airlines Co.’s
planned initial public offering.  ANA will offer 1 billion new shares, including an
overallotment option, with pricing set for July 18 at the
earliest, according to a statement yesterday. Japan Air will
raise at least 500 billion yen in an IPO in September at the
earliest, two people familiar with the matter said in January.  “ANA has a first-mover advantage given both airlines would
be approaching a similar potential investor base,” said
Nicholas Cunningham, an analyst at Macquarie Capital Securities
(Japan) Ltd. in Tokyo. “We aren’t certain as to the scale of
demand for Japanese airline equity issuance following ANA.”  Tokyo-based ANA is seeking money to help pay for new  Boeing
Co. (BA)  787 planes and for possible investments in other Asian
carriers. JAL, which exited bankruptcy last year, may hold
Japan’s second-largest IPO since 1998 as it returns to the stock
exchange following a state-backed turnaround.  ANA is changing its corporate structure into a holding
company from April 1, so it can more easily support different
brands. In addition to its main unit, the company has stakes in
budget carriers Peach Aviation Ltd. and AirAsia Japan Co., which
are both starting flights this year.  “We’re always looking at ways to expand and take more of
the expanding market in Asia, which includes M&A,” said Megumi Tezuka, a spokeswoman at ANA. The share sale “will help us take
advantage of opportunities if they arise.”  Sale Premium  The airline is seeking a price of as much as 211.1 yen a
share, based on its statement. That’s 8.3 percent more than
today’s closing price. The sale will boost the number of
outstanding shares by about 40 percent.  The  carrier  rose 1 percent to 195 yen in Tokyo trading
after plummeting 14 percent yesterday.  Skymark Airlines Inc. (9204) ,
Japan’s largest discount carrier, dropped 5.6 percent today.  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) , and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  will manage the ANA share sale.
The carrier also raised 143 billion yen in a 2009 stock sale to
help fund new planes, as well as 97 billion yen in 2006.  Plane Orders  ANA plans to spend 577 billion yen on outstanding plane
orders, having already paid 253 billion yen, it said. Its
backlog consists of 49 Boeing 787s, five 777s, 10 737s, 15
Mitsubishi Aircraft Corp. regional jets and three Bombardier Inc.
turboprops.  The airline received the first of 55 fuel-efficient
Dreamliners last year as it expands overseas services, including
the start of flights to Seattle and  San Jose . The carrier is
also cooperating with  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)  and
Deutsche Lufthansa AG to boost international sales as well as
taking advantage of increased capacity at Tokyo’s two main
airports.  “Our growth is focused on expanding our international
services,” Shinichiro Nakagawa, a deputy director for finance
and accounting, said in an interview yesterday. “The funds will
help us make the best of expansions at Narita and Haneda.”  The carrier has said  net income  may rise 42 percent this
fiscal year to 40 billion yen because of cost cuts and a rebound
in  travel demand  following the March 2011 earthquake and tsunami.
Sales may rise 6.3 percent to 1.5 trillion yen, it said in April.  JAL IPO  Japan Air, the nation’s second-largest carrier, has filed a
share sale application, and it plans to seek as much as 600
billion yen in September,  Kyodo News  reported June 20, without
citing anyone.  The carrier, which delisted in 2010 after filing for
 bankruptcy protection , has said IPO proceeds will be used to pay
back Enterprise Turnaround Initiative Corp. of Japan, the state-
backed fund that became its biggest shareholder in the
restructuring.  The government is also preparing to sell shares of Japan
Tobacco Inc., while  Kawasaki Kisen Kaisha Ltd. (9107) , Japan’s third-
largest shipping line, announced plans for a 28.6 billion yen
share sale earlier this week. Train and hotel operator Seibu
Holdings Inc. has also hired banks for an IPO, a person with
knowledge of the matter said in May.  “There are a lot of share sales coming up,” said  Ryota Himeno , a Tokyo-based Barclays Plc analyst. “The first ones
could be the winners.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
Kiyotaka Matsuda in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net . 