-- Manchester Utd Prepares $39 Million Moutinho Bid: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-07-03T07:56:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/manchester-utd-prepares-39-million-moutinho-bid-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Moutinho Approach  Manchester United  approached Porto with a view to signing
 Portugal  attacking midfielder Joao Moutinho for 25 million
pounds ($39.2 million), the  Sun reported .  United is preparing the bid after Tottenham quoted a fee of
40 million pounds for Luka Modric, which United won’t pay, the
newspaper said. Tottenham Hotspur and Chelsea are also
interested in Moutinho, 25, the Sun added.  Teenage Target  Chelsea will bid 4 million pounds for Southampton’s teenage
left-back Luke Shaw this week, the  Daily Mail reported .  The Blues registered their interest in the 16-year-old in
January, though the Saints are under no pressure to sell Shaw
after winning promotion to the Premier League, the Mail added.  Mancini’s Raise  Manchester City ’s title-winning manager  Roberto Mancini 
agreed terms on a new four-year contract worth 20 million
pounds, the  Daily Mirror reported .  Mancini, who has entered the final 12 months of his current
agreement, will be given a raise of 1.5 million pounds a year
for leading City to its first English league championship in 44
years, the newspaper added.  Spurs Want Oscar  Tottenham is trying to agree a fee with Brazilian club
Internacional for midfielder Oscar, who scored three goals in
last year’s FIFA Under-20 World Cup final, the  Sun reported .  Spurs are reluctant to meet the 20 million-pound asking
price for the 20-year-old, who’s played six games at senior
level for  Brazil , the newspaper added.  Van Persie Talks  Robin  van Persie  will hold talks with Arsenal manager
 Arsene Wenger  this week after the club rejected an 8 million-
pound bid from Juventus for the striker, the  Mail reported .  Van Persie is stalling on signing a new three-year contract
worth 130,000 pounds a week, the newspaper said. Juventus is
expected to return with a new bid, though is only willing to go
to about 12 million pounds, the Mail added.  Ba Bargain  Liverpool is considering a move for Newcastle striker Demba
Ba, who’s available for 7 million pounds because of a clause in
his contract, the  Daily Mirror reported .  Ba, 27, is available at that price until July 31, after
which clubs wanting to sign him will have to pay his full market
value, the Mirror added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  