-- Manchester United Files for U.S. Share Sale of Soccer Club
-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 2012-07-04T10:19:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/manchester-united-files-for-100-million-initial-offer-in-u-s-.html
Manchester United  Ltd., the English
soccer team with a record 19 national championships, filed to
raise $100 million in a U.S. initial public offering.  The club didn’t say how many shares it will offer or at
what price in a filing yesterday with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission. The offering amount is a placeholder used
to calculate registration fees and may change.  United announced its plans for the sale a week after the
end of a monthlong drought in U.S. IPOs. The club, owned by the
Glazer family, scrapped plans for a  Singapore  offering as
volatile stock markets roiled equity sales, people familiar said
at the time. Proceeds from the sale will be used to repay debt,
the filing shows.  “The U.S. market has an ability to provide cash,” said
 Michael Cuggino , who manages about $17 billion at San Francisco-
based Pacific Heights Asset Management. “They’re Premier League
soccer, so there’s an enterprise value there.”  United, which had planned to raise as much as $1 billion in
Singapore, may hold the U.S. offering this summer, people with
knowledge of the plans said last month. With Singapore’s
benchmark Straits Times Index  down 6 percent , companies have
raised $657 million in IPOs there in the past year, compared
with almost $7 billion in the first half of 2011 alone, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Jefferies Group Inc., Credit Suisse Group AG and JPMorgan
Chase & Co. will lead the offering, United’s filing shows.
 Morgan Stanley (MS) , which had been hired to lead the sale in
Singapore, isn’t listed as an underwriter in the filing for the
U.S. offering.  U.S. Pitch  United spokesman Philip Townsend declined to comment on the
offering, citing SEC regulations.  Banks pitched the idea of a U.S. sale to the Glazer family,
the club’s U.S. owners, one person said. The family bought
United in 2005 for 790 million pounds ($1.24 billion) and also
own the  National Football League ’s Tampa Bay Buccaneers. The
family remain unpopular with many fans for using the club’s
income to finance their acquisition. United had debt of 423.3
million pounds in the third quarter.  If “the vast majority of the proceeds are used to pay off
the debt, that is certainly something” the club’s supporters’
trust would welcome, Duncan Drasdo, chief executive of the
 Manchester United Supporters Trust  said in an e-mailed
statement. “Until we have more detail, it is impossible to say
with certainty what this will mean for Manchester United or its
supporters.”  Most Popular Club  United, whose players include  England ’s striker  Wayne Rooney  and Welshman Ryan Giggs, has 659 million followers,
making it the world’s most popular club, United said in May,
citing a study by market research company Kantar. Its supporters
have doubled in five years, helped by 108 million fans in  China ,
where the team plans to play two exhibition matches this summer.  Singapore’s stock exchange in September approved United’s
application to raise about $1 billion in an IPO. After delaying
the offering last year, the club revisited the idea in March,
people with knowledge of the matter said at the time.  Formula One shelved a listing plan in Singapore until later
this year because of volatility, Chief Executive Officer  Bernie Ecclestone  said last month. Shareholders of the auto-racing
series, led by CVC Capital Partners Ltd., plan to raise as much
as $3 billion.  The dry spell in U.S. IPOs ended last week with initial
offerings by companies including  ServiceNow Inc. (NOW)  and EQT
Midstream Partners LP, both of which have gained value in public
trading.  Kayak Software Corp. and Palo Alto Networks Inc. plan to
begin marketing IPOs to investors next week and complete the
sales by the end of this month, people with knowledge of the
companies’ plans said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lee Spears in  New York  at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  