-- Andy Griffith, Mayberry Sheriff, Lawyer Matlock, Dies at 86
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-07-04T04:01:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/andy-griffith-sheriff-of-mayberry-gospel-singer-dies-at-86.html
Andy Griffith, who played the
sheriff of Mayberry on television in the 1960s and the folksy
criminal defense attorney Ben Matlock two decades later, has
died. He was 86.  He died yesterday at his coastal home on Roanoke Island,
 North Carolina , and was buried there, according to Dare County
Sheriff J.D. “Doug” Doughtie, citing a statement from the
family. No cause of death was given.  In a variety of roles during his career, Griffith perfected
the persona of the country hick who prevailed through an
abundance of common sense, a keen sense of humor and moral
decency, and those who underestimated him usually paid a price.  He appeared on Broadway and in films before being cast in
CBS’s “ The Andy Griffith Show ” as a southern small-town
sheriff riding herd over his young son Opie and his bumbling
deputy, Barney Fife. He returned to television in 1986 as a
smart, down home criminal defense attorney in “ Matlock .”  “I was an awful shy, scraggly, homely kid, and I’d fall
over imaginary objects and trip myself up with my own big
feet,” Griffith said, according to author Terry Collins in
“ The Andy Griffith Story ” (1995).  One day he said he realized he could make people laugh.  “As long as everyone was going to laugh at me anyway, I
might as well put myself in the position where I could control
the laughter,” he said. “I turned a disadvantage into an
advantage, and in doing it, I changed my whole life.”  Traffic Stop  The pilot of “The Andy Griffith Show” was an episode of
“The Danny Thomas Show” in which Danny Thomas was stopped for
speeding by Griffith, who played a wise and gentle Sheriff Andy
Taylor in Mayberry, North Carolina.  Mayberry’s population included Floyd the barber, Goober the
auto mechanic and Otis the town drunk.  “Most of these characters were hicks, playing comic foils
to the sagacious Andy,” the Museum of Broadcast Communications
said. “Without much real police work to attend to, Andy’s true
job was protecting these and other citizens of Mayberry from
their own hubris, intemperance and stupidity.”  As a widower and the father of Opie, played by  Ron Howard ,
who lived with Aunt Bee, a motherly character portrayed by
Frances Bavier, he earned the No. 8 ranking of TV Guide’s list
of “50 Greatest TV Dads of All Time,” in 2004.  On the set, Griffith had a legendary temper directed at
actors who arrived late, unprepared or who tried to act under
the influence of drugs or alcohol.  ‘Forever Grateful’  The show, which won five  Emmy awards  for acting for
comedian Don Knotts, who portrayed Fife, and one for Bavier,
remained in the top 10 from 1960 to 1968, according to Nielsen
Holdings NV.  Griffith’s “pursuit of excellence and the joy he took in
creating served generations and shaped my life,” said Howard,
through a verified Twitter account, who went on to direct  Oscar -
nominated movies, including “A Beautiful Mind,” which won four
Academy Awards including best picture in 2002. “I’m forever
grateful.”  Andy Samuel Griffith was born on June 1, 1926, in  Mount
Airy , North Carolina, a rural area with quarries and producers
of tobacco and furniture products. His father, Carl Griffith,
worked as a carpenter in a furniture factory and his mother,
Geneva, was a homemaker.  Griffith changed his mind about becoming a minister when he
joined the Carolina Playmakers, a theater troupe at the
University of North Carolina at  Chapel Hill , where he studied
music before graduating.  Broadway Debut  He started his career by writing and performing humorous
monologues such as “What It Was, Was Football,” in which a
backwoods youngster at his first game describes boys running up
and down a “cow pasture” in “the awfulest fight I have ever
seen in my life” and “these purty girls a-wearin’ these
little-bitty short dresses and a-dancin’ around.”  A recording of the monologue was released in 1953 and led
to television appearances on the Ed Sullivan and Steve Allen
shows.  His first Broadway performance, portraying country bumpkin
Will Stockdale in the 1955 version of “No Time for Sergeants,”
earned him a Tony nomination.  Two years later he showed a darker side in his film debut
in “ A Face in the Crowd ,” co-starring Patricia Neal, Walter
Matthau and Lee Remick. Griffith’s portrayal of hick-turned-
media demagogue Lonesome Rhodes is an “astonishing, sinister
performance,” said  New York  Times film critic Dave Kehr.  He earned a second Tony nomination, for best actor in a
musical for his performance in “Destry Rides Again” in 1959.  After Mayberry  Once he started playing Sheriff Taylor, television became
Griffith’s main stage and springboard to fame. He patrolled the
streets of Mayberry, aided by Knotts’s Deputy Fife, until 1968.  Griffith’s attempts to find another hit TV series with
“The Headmaster,” in which he played a stern school principal
working with troubled youths, and “The New Andy Griffith
Show,” in which he was the mayor of a small North Carolina town,
failed after their initial seasons.  He spent the rest of the 1970s appearing in made-for-TV
movies and the occasional mini-series. In 1981, he received an
Emmy nomination for a made-for-TV movie, “Murder in  Texas .” He
didn’t win.  “I was disappointed in not winning the Emmy not so much
for anything else except you feel like such a damn fool sitting
there on TV,” he said, according to Collins. “It would be nice
to have one when my mother comes over or a cousin comes to visit,
but I can manage without it.”  Attorney Matlock  Three years later, Griffith played a prosecuting attorney
in the mini-series “Fatal Vision,” a role that set the stage
for the hour-long crime drama, “Matlock.” The popular show,
which ran from 1986 to 1995, occasionally brought the Mayberry
regulars back together.  “Matlock has real feet of clay. This character is very
cheap,” Griffith said, according to Collins. “He thinks he
looks great in these gray suits. He thinks he has a wonderful
figure. It’s fun for me. I really love to play this part and
allow this character to have all these weaknesses.”  When Griffith accepted the People’s Choice Award for
Matlock, he said it was his favorite role. He also was inducted
into the  Hall of Fame  of the Academy of Television Arts &
Sciences, the group that awards Emmys.  Griffith won a Grammy in 1996 for his gospel album, “I
Love to Tell the Story,” and President  George W. Bush  presented
him with the Presidential Medal of Freedom in 2005.  His career was put on hold in 1983 when he contracted
 Guillain-Barre Syndrome . Griffith recovered although he couldn’t
walk for seven months. He had heart bypass surgery in May 2000.  Griffith married Barbara Bray Edwards in 1949 and they had
two children, Dixie Nann and a son, Andrew Samuel Griffith Jr.,
known as Sam, who died in 1996. The couple divorced in 1972. His
1975 marriage to Solica Cassuto also ended in divorce. He has
been married to Cindi Knight since 1983.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in  Washington  at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  