-- Target’s Hiring Poised to Roil Domestic Retail
-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k   a n d   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2012-07-03T14:25:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/target-s-hiring-poised-to-roil-domestic-retail.html
  Target Corp. (TGT)  and  Wal-Mart Stores
Inc. (WMT)  plan to hire tens of thousands of workers in  Canada  over
the next two years, increasing pressure on domestic retailers
from  Sears Canada Inc. (SCC)  to  Canadian Tire Corp Ltd. (CTC/A)   Target, the second-largest U.S. discount retailer, will
hire as many as 27,000 people in Canada next year for its first
stores in the country, while Wal-Mart said it plans to add 4,000
employees this year, about 500 more than it initially forecast.  “We’re in a period of great dislocation,” due to the
rising presence of U.S. competitors, said Keith Howlett, retail
analyst at Desjardins Securities Inc. in Toronto. “It’s going
to be an extremely challenging time for retailers.”  U.S. retailers are heading north to take advantage of a
economy expanding at a 1.9 percent pace and falling jobless
rate. Canadian employment has grown 3 percent since 2008 while
U.S. employment shrank 3.6 percent.  Wal-Mart, the world’s largest retailer, dominates market
share among the top U.S. grocers such as Kroger Co.,  Safeway
Inc. (SWY)  and Supervalue Inc., with a 46 percent share, said Kathleen Wong, an equities analyst at Veritas Investment Research. In
Canada, the general merchandisers will feel the most pressure
from Target and Wal-Mart, said Wong.  “More of the impact will be on the apparel and in the
department stores,” Wong said in a telephone interview. The
impact on grocery store chains such as  Loblaw Companies Ltd. (L) 
“will be a lot less,” she said.  Canadian Tire  Wong calculates Target will “steal” a total of C$855
million ($828 million) in sales from Canadian Tire, a Toronto-
based motor oil-to-toasters chain. Target, whose housewares and
low-priced clothing have drawn Canadian cross-border shoppers to
its U.S. stores for years, will take C$397 million in sales from
Sears Canada, the retailer 51 percent owned by Edward Lampert-
controlled  Sears Holdings Corp. (SHLD) , she said, drawing on a report
she published in December.  “It’s a challenge to recruit tens of thousands of people
in a short time period,” Tiffany Monroe, Target Canada’s vice-
president of human resources said in an interview. Monroe was in
Alberta June 22, as part of a cross-country hiring campaign.
Wal-Mart spokesman Alex Roberton said the Bentonville, Arkansas-
based company boosted its hiring target from February.  Sears Canada, last week opened its biggest ever store in
Canada, a 78,000 square-foot Sears Home Store in Ottawa,
carrying major appliances and mattresses and offering shoppers
the opportunity to design their own furniture.  Loblaw Impact  Wong at Veritas said the three biggest Canadian grocers
Loblaws,  Sobeys Inc. (EMP/A)  and  Metro Inc. (MRU) , by contrast hold 56 percent
market share with Wal-Mart’s share yet to exceed 4 percent.  “We believe the prediction of Wal-Mart repeating its U.S.
success in Canada is a far cry from reality,” she said in
report dated June 12.  Target agreed last year to enter Canada, spending C$1.83
billion to buy store leases from Hudson’s Bay Co.’s Zellers
unit. The Minneapolis-based company said it plans to open 125 to
135 stores in 2013 and staff each location with 150 people to
200 people. It will also hire 300 people at its Canadian
headquarters in Mississauga, Ontario, by the time the stores
open, adding to 400 people already there.  “Most of the Zellers are located in a mall, and this is
where Target will be,” said Wong. “There will definitely be
impact on smaller specialty stores, like Reitmans or any stores
in the mall.”  Reitmans Canada Ltd. (RET/A)  dropped 17 percent in the
year through June 29 in Toronto.  Canada Revenue  Target told investors last month it expects its Canadian
operations to have at least $6 billion in sales and 80 cents a
share in profit by 2017.  U.S. retailers have entered Canada including clothing
retailer  Express Inc. (EXPR) , which opened its first store last fall
and  ANN Inc.’s (ANN)  LOFT clothing store which plans to open its first
store in Canada this fall.  “Canada is sort of the logical growth expansion plan right
now for U.S. retailers,” said Jason Buechel, a senior executive
at  Accenture Plc ’s retail practice in Phoenix. “If I was a
Canadian retailer, I think I’d have to understand the changing
landscape and how do they best combat the influence of these
American-based retailers coming into the market.”  Wal-Mart has increased its employee base by 3 percent over
the past five years, while Target has boosted its staff by 0.7
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Loblaw has
declined by 0.6 percent over that period.  Global Competitors  Canadian Tire has advanced 4.5 percent in the year through
June 29 in Toronto, lagging the 12 percent gain among the 18-
member  S&P/TSX Consumer Discretionary Index. (SPTSCD)  Wal-Mart has
advanced 17 percent over the same period, Target  has risen 14
percent and  Sears Canada  has dropped 2.3 percent.  “Canadian Tire knows its position within Canadian
retail,” said Nicole Picot, a spokeswoman for Canadian Tire.
“We’ve been competing successfully with big global retailers
for years and the market gets more competitive all the time.”  ’Good Value’  Sears Canada spokesmen didn’t return phone calls placed by
Bloomberg News seeking comment.  “Most people are looking for a good value and the cheapest
price,” said Brian Yarbrough, an analyst at Edward Jones & Co.
in  St. Louis , in a telephone interview. “If they can find that
at Target or Wal-Mart versus the grocery store chain, or
Canadian Tire or whatever other retailer, they’re probably going
to go there.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net ;
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  