-- Asia Stocks Rise on Expectation of Monetary Policy Easing
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-07-03T10:18:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/asia-stocks-rise-on-expectation-of-monetary-policy-easing.html
Asian stocks  climbed , headed for the
biggest five-day gain this year, on expectations central banks
from the U.S., China and  Europe  may ease monetary policy to spur
economic growth.  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306) , Japan’s biggest bank,
led gains among financial stocks. Renesas Electronics Corp.
jumped 9.8 percent in  Tokyo  after a report the maker of
automotive microcontrollers will announce further restructuring.
Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co., the world’s No. 1
contract maker of chips, added 1.1 percent in Taipei after
Micron Technology Inc. agreed to buy Japan’s bankrupt Elpida
Memory Inc. in the industry’s largest tieup in four years.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  advanced 0.9 percent to 118.79
as of 7:14 p.m. in Tokyo. About three stocks rose for each that
fell. The Asian gauge last week posted its biggest weekly gain
since January after euro-zone leaders agreed to relax conditions
for recapitalizing lenders, easing concern about the debt
crisis.  “There will be more monetary easing be it in Europe, from
the Fed or in  China ,” said Robert Aspin, Singapore-based
investment strategist at Standard Chartered Bank. “We are
overweight global equities. Authorities in China are more
worried about the quality of growth and they can do a lot
more.”  Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average gained 0.7 percent, while
South Korea’s Kospi Index advanced 0.9 percent.  Hong Kong ’s Hang
Seng Index climbed 1.5 percent after markets in the city
reopened from a holiday yesterday. The Shanghai Composite Index
added 0.1 percent.  Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index slid 0.1 percent after the
benchmark interest rate was kept unchanged at 3.5 percent.  Speculation for further easing was spurred by a report U.S.
manufacturing unexpectedly shrank in June for the first time
since the economy emerged from a recession three years ago,
indicating a mainstay of the expansion may be faltering.  Fed Action  The contraction may encourage more accommodative policies,
Princeton University economist  Alan Blinder  said in an interview
on Bloomberg Television’s “Market Makers” with  Erik Schatzker 
and Scarlet Fu.  “Data like this that keep coming in are encouraging or
strengthening the positions of the doves on the Fed,” said
Blinder, a former central bank vice chairman. “You know there’s
a big civil war going on in the  Federal Reserve , weakening the
position of the hawks.”  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index were little
changed after swinging between gains and losses of 0.2 percent
today. The gauge increased 0.3 percent in New York yesterday as
takeovers helped the market recover from earlier losses
triggered by the manufacturing contraction. Micron agreed to
acquire Elpida, an Apple Inc. supplier. Bristol-Myers Squibb Co.
said it will pay $5.3 billion for Amylin Pharmaceuticals Inc.  Europe Joblessness  Unemployment in the 17-nation euro area reached the highest
level on record as a deepening economic slump and budget cuts
prompted companies from Spain to Italy to reduce their
workforces, a report showed yesterday. This added to speculation
that central banks will add to measures unveiled by the region’s
governments to contain the sovereign-debt crisis.  The  European Central Bank  and the  Bank of England  announce
 interest-rate  decisions on July 5. ECB officials will lower
their benchmark rate by 25 basis points to a record low 0.75
percent, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey
of 57 economists.  The China Securities Journal, a state-run newspaper, said
the time is ripe for China to cut banks’ reserve requirements as
slowing inflation gives more room for easing to stabilize
growth.  Financial companies accounted for the largest gains on the
Asian regional benchmark gauge. Mitsubishi UFJ rose 3.2 percent
to 392 yen. Nomura Holdings Inc., Japan’s largest brokerage,
climbed 0.7 percent to 298 yen. Agricultural Bank of China Ltd.
advanced 2.9 percent to HK$3.18 in Hong Kong.  Exporters Rise  Canon Inc. (7751) , a camera maker that gets nearly 60 percent of
sales from the Americas and Europe, gained 1.3 percent to 3,195
yen. Li & Fung Ltd., which gets more than 80 percent of sales in
the U.S. and Europe, gained 0.8 percent to HK$14.94 in Hong
Kong.  Yue Yuen Industrial Holdings Ltd. (551) , which makes shoes for
Nike Inc., rose 1 percent to HK$24.45.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index gained 3.4 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with an 8.6 percent advance by the
 S&P 500  and a 4.2 percent increase by the Stoxx Europe 600
Index. Stocks on the Asian benchmark are valued at 12 times
estimated earnings on average, compared with 13.2 times for the
S&P 500 and 10.7 times for the Stoxx 600.  Technology companies  advanced after Micron agreed to
acquire Elpida. Taiwan Semiconductor gained 1.1 percent to
NT$84.20 in Taipei. Wintek Corp., a designer of liquid crystal
displays, climbed 1.2 percent to NT$16.55.  Renesas rallied 9.8 percent to 348 yen after  Kyodo News 
reported the company will announce restructuring plans today.
After market close the chipmaker said it will cut more than
5,000 jobs or 12 percent of its workforce.  Kawasaki Kisen Kaisha Ltd. (9107)  slumped 15 percent to 134 yen in
Tokyo after the marine cargo and passenger transporter cut its
full-year profit forecast and said it will sell shares to raise
funds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  