-- Stocks Rally With Commodities as Treasuries Retreat
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-07-03T21:14:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/asia-stocks-won-rise-as-u-s-factory-gauge-stokes-stimulus-bets.html
Stocks rose, sending U.S. and
European benchmark indexes to two-month highs, and commodities
rallied as American factory orders topped estimates and
speculation grew central banks will act to spur growth.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced 0.6 percent to
close at 1,374.02 while the  Stoxx Europe 600 (SXXP)  Index added 1
percent, with both above their highest closes since the first
week of May. Oil jumped 4.7 percent and corn climbed for a third
day as 22 of 24 commodities tracked by the S&P GSCI Index
advanced. The yen fell against 15 of its 16 major peers, while
10-year U.S. Treasury notes retreated.  U.S. equities extended gains as government data showed
factory orders rose in May for the first time in three months,
easing concern that manufacturing is faltering. The  European
Central Bank  is forecast by economists to cut  interest rates 
this week, while a state-owned newspaper in  China  said the time
is ripe for a reduction in banks’  reserve-requirement ratios .
Employment figures in the U.S. this week may prompt the  Federal
Reserve  to initiate fresh stimulus, BNP Paribas SA said.  “The factory orders data take the edge off the bad
numbers,”  John Manley , chief equity strategist for Wells Fargo
Advantage Funds in  New York , said in a telephone interview. His
firm oversees $201 billion. “There’s the notion that the
Federal Reserve will do whatever it has to do. The question is -
- will the Fed let us slip into a recession? The answer is no.”  Early Close  Trading on U.S. stock markets ended at 1 p.m. today in New
York and Treasuries closed at 2 p.m., with exchanges shut
tomorrow for the Fourth of July holiday.  Commodity producers, industrial and technology companies
rose at least 0.9 percent to lead gains in six of the 10 main
industry groups in the  S&P 500. (SPXL1)  Canada’s S&P/TSX Composite Index
surged 2.2 percent, its biggest advance since November, as
energy and metal producers rallied.  General Motors Co., Ford Motor Co. and Chrysler Group LLC
reported U.S. auto sales for June that topped analysts’
estimates, helping the industry surpass projections and stay on
pace for the best year since 2007. U.S. auto sales accelerated
to a 14.1 million seasonally adjusted annualized rate,
researcher Autodata Corp. said in an e-mailed statement.  Alcoa Inc., Caterpillar Inc. and  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  rose more
than 1.4 percent to help lead gains in the  Dow Jones Industrial
Average . Ford Motor Co. rallied 2.2 percent as deliveries of
cars and light trucks beat estimates.  Treasury Yields  The yield on the 10-year U.S. Treasury note rose four basis
points to 1.63 percent. A benchmark gauge of U.S. corporate debt
risk was poised to fall to the lowest level in almost two
months. The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark, decreased 2.7 basis points to a
mid-price of 106.5 basis points.  The Stoxx 600 rallied to the highest level since May 3 as
four shares increased for every one that fell. The regional
benchmark has climbed 5.2 percent in three days after European
leaders agreed on plans to tame the region’s debt crisis. PSA
Peugeot Citroen climbed 3.7 percent after a union official said
the company plans to cut its French workforce by as much as 10
percent this year.  Barclays Plc slipped 0.8 percent, erasing an early rally of
as much as 4.8 percent. Chief Executive Officer  Robert Diamond 
succumbed to political pressure to quit after the bank admitted
to rigging global interest rates.  Yen, Aussie  The yen weakened 0.7 percent against the euro and 0.4
percent versus the dollar.  Australia ’s dollar appreciated 0.8
percent versus the yen after data showed building approvals
surged by a record and the central bank left interest rates
unchanged.  The S&P GSCI  gauge  of 24 commodities climbed 3.5 percent to
the highest since May. Oil rose to a one-month high of $87.66 a
barrel, corn gained 2.9 percent and copper jumped 2.5 percent.
Aluminum advanced 3.8 percent after Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
said the metal is “attractive at these levels.”  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  advanced 1.7 percent to the
highest level on a closing basis since May 11. The  Hang Seng
China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  added 1.4 percent as trading resumed
after a yesterday’s holiday. Cutting  reserve requirements  may
become the top choice for the People’s Bank of China to increase
liquidity, according to the China Securities Journal, which is
published by the official Xinhua News Agency.  Russia’s Micex Index advanced 2.5 percent. Turkey’s  ISE
National 100 Index (XU100)  jumped 1.2 percent after the inflation rate
rose less than analysts estimated.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  