-- Astana Finance Creditors Back $1.9 Billion Debt Restructuring
-- B y   N a r i m a n   G i z i t d i n o v
-- 2012-07-03T13:02:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/astana-finance-creditors-back-1-9-billion-debt-restructuring.html
AO Astana Finance’s creditors backed
a plan to restructure $1.9 billion of debt, triggering losses
for the Kazakh financial company’s international investors.  Creditors who hold 79.6 percent of the company’s debt
approved the plan in Almaty on June 29, according to the  minutes 
of a meeting posted yesterday on its website.  Astana Finance became the third Kazakh financial company to
default after it stopped servicing its international debt in May
2009. BTA Bank, Alliance Bank and Temirbank restructured about
$20 billion in debt after also defaulting that year. State-owned
BTA is seeking to restructure its debt for the second time in as
many years.  Astana Finance will distribute $100 million in cash to
international creditors, issue $75 million of one-year zero-
coupon bonds, and issue at least $165.6 million of bonds due
2016 according to the minutes of the meeting.  In addition, international creditors will get at least 60
percent of the company’s stock and $50 million of 12-year
recovery notes, granting them a share of anything recovered from
impaired assets, the minutes show. Astana Finance said in a July
2009  presentation  that it owed 172.2 billion tenge ($1.2
billion) to global creditors including  export credit agencies .  Senior domestic creditors will receive 14.8 billion tenge
of bonds, while subordinated domestic debt holders will get 5.4
billion tenge of securities, according to the minutes.  Claimants with “operational debt claims” will be entitled
to a cash payment of 15 percent of their outstanding claims,
payable in tenge, the minutes show.  Astana Finance is seeking buyers for its two banking
subsidiaries, Bank Astana Finance and AF Russia, according to a
memorandum posted on its website last month.  The company is 25.5 percent government-controlled
Kazakhstan Stock Exchange data show. Astana Finance said in
September that former Chairman Kintal Islamov is being
investigated in connection with alleged theft of company funds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nariman Gizitdinov in Almaty at 
 ngizitdinov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  