-- Aussie Dollar Rises After Building Approvals Surge in May
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 2012-07-03T06:11:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/aussie-gains-as-building-rise-before-rba-decision.html
     July 3 (Bloomberg) -- Australia ’s dollar advanced after data
showed the nation’s home building approvals surged in May,
adding to signs that the economy is gaining momentum.  The so-called Aussie pared gains after reaching a two-month
high as the  Reserve Bank  of Australia kept  interest rates 
unchanged and said a subdued international outlook means the
stance of monetary policy remains appropriate. New Zealand’s
dollar climbed against the yen as Asian stocks rose for a fifth
day, boosting demand for higher yielding currencies.  “Our view is still for further cuts but the RBA will be on
hold in the near term to see how things will play out,” said
Khoon Goh, a senior foreign-exchange strategist in Singapore at
 Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  “The Aussie currency
came off a little bit as the statement wasn’t hawkish from the
market’s point of view.”  Australia’s dollar traded at $1.0261 at 3:53 p.m. in Sydney
from $1.0249 at the close in New York yesterday, after earlier
touching $1.0285, the strongest since May 3. The so-called
Aussie rallied 0.4 percent to 81.84 yen. New Zealand’s currency
fetched 80.42 U.S. cents from 80.37, and bought 64.14 yen, 0.4
percent higher than the close yesterday.  Australia’s bonds reversed earlier losses. Yields on the
benchmark 10-year notes slid three basis points, or 0.03 basis
point, to 3.16 percent, after gaining as much as three basis
points. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of shares climbed 0.7
percent, rising for a fifth day.  RBA Decision  Reserve Bank of Australia  Governor  Glenn Stevens  and his
board left the overnight cash-rate target at a 2 1/2-year low of
3.5 percent today, saying its recent reductions in borrowing
costs will help the economy weather a more subdued global
outlook. The decision was predicted by  all 28 economists 
surveyed by Bloomberg News.  The number of permits granted to build or renovate houses
and apartments in Australia jumped by a record 27.3 percent in
May from April, when they declined a revised 7.6 percent, the
Bureau of Statistics said in Sydney today.  “The domestic economic outlook in Australia is certainly
looking a touch firmer on the basis of this data,”  Jonathan Cavenagh , a Singapore-based currency strategist at  Westpac
Banking Corp. (WBC) , Australia’s second-biggest lender, said of the
building permits report. “It will reduce the odds of a rate cut
at the August meeting, and then that should definitely support
the currency further from here.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  