-- Australia Dollar Gains as Commodities Rise Amid Bets on Stimulus
-- B y   L i n d s e y   R u p p
-- 2012-07-03T21:05:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/australia-dollar-gains-as-commodities-rise-amid-bets-on-stimulus.html
The Australian dollar touched the
highest level in two months versus its U.S. counterpart as
commodities climbed amid speculation global central banks will
act to spur economic growth.  The Aussie strengthened against the majority of its 16
most-traded peers as a gauge of raw materials rose to the
highest level since May and data showed the nation’s home-
building approvals surged. New Zealand’s dollar also reached a
two-month high versus the greenback.  The gains were largely due to “the rebound in commodity
prices you’ve seen over the last couple of sessions, and just in
general better sentiment on what’s going on in  Europe ,”  Shane Enright ,  executive director  at Canadian Imperial Bank of
Commerce’s CIBC World Markets unit in Toronto, said yesterday in
a telephone interview.  Australia ’s dollar gained 0.3 percent to $1.0283 yesterday
in  New York , after touching $1.0297, the strongest since May 3.
It rose 0.7 percent to 82.05 yen. New Zealand’s currency, known
as the kiwi, was little changed at 80.38 U.S. cents. It climbed
0.3 percent earlier to 80.62 cents, also the most since May 3.
The kiwi advanced 0.3 percent to 64.12 yen.  The Aussie pared gains after the  Reserve Bank  of Australia
kept its benchmark  interest rate  at 3.5 percent and said a
subdued international outlook means the stance of monetary
policy remains appropriate. It rose later to the high of the day
as risk appetite swelled.  Commodities Gain  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24  raw materials 
rallied as much as 3.5 percent to 618.42, the highest level
since May 29. Stocks rose, with the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
gaining 0.6 percent, amid speculation that central banks in the
U.S., Europe and  China  will ease monetary policy to spur their
economies, boosting demand for raw materials. Australia and  New
Zealand  export commodities.  The number of permits granted to build or renovate houses
and apartments in Australia jumped by a record 27.3 percent in
May from April, when they declined a revised 7.6 percent, the
Bureau of Statistics said yesterday in Sydney.  Morgan Stanley cut its forecasts for the Australian, New
Zealand and Canadian dollars yesterday, citing what it called an
increasingly challenging global economic environment for the
commodity-exporting countries.  New Forecasts  The Aussie will depreciate to 95 U.S. cents by year-end,
compared with the previous projection of 99 cents, New York-
based Morgan Stanley said in a note. New Zealand’s dollar will
finish the year at 75 U.S. cents, compared with the earlier
forecast of 80 cents, and the Canadian dollar will weaken to
C$1.06 against its U.S. counterpart, versus the previous
forecast of C$1.03, the firm said.  “Investors really question the sustainability of the rise
in not only commodities, but currencies that are closely
correlated with resource-linked assets, that’s just on broader
concerns about the slowing global economy,”  Joe Manimbo , a
Washington-based market analyst at Western Union Business
Solutions, a unit of Western Union Co, said in a telephone
interview yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsey Rupp in New York at 
 lrupp2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  