-- Australian Olympic Athletes Are Banned From Using Sleeping Pills
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-07-03T04:17:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/australian-olympic-athletes-are-banned-from-using-sleeping-pills.html
Australia ’s Olympic athletes will be
banned from using prescription insomnia treatments during the
London games starting this month.  The Australian Olympic Committee said it amended its team
medical manual to prohibit the use of Stilnox and other zolpidem
related drugs after former Olympic swimming champion Grant Hackett said that he became heavily reliant on the sleeping pill
toward the end of his career.  “Our overriding obligation is to protect the health of our
athletes,” AOC President  John Coates  said today at a news
conference in Sydney. “This was only really brought to my
attention when I read Grant Hackett’s revelations. If I’m to
blame for not having got on top of this earlier and not having
understood it better earlier, I accept that blame.”  Hackett, who won the 1,500 meters freestyle at the Sydney
and Athens games, told Sydney’s Sunday Telegraph newspaper that
he took Stilnox over a “longer than usual period” during his
comeback following shoulder surgery between the 2004 and 2008
Olympics. He also used the drug to help rest during competition.  “At one point they scared me. They’re evil,” the
newspaper cited Hackett as saying two days ago.  Coates said Australian athletes have already been
practicing other relaxation techniques which would overcome the
need for sleeping pills. They will be allowed prescriptions for
the short-acting drug Temazepam for up to three days in
“extreme circumstances,” he said.  Athletes will also be reminded about the risks of caffeine
to try and prevent them falling into a pattern of uppers and
downers, Coates said. Caffeine is no longer on the World Anti-
Doping Agency’s list of banned substances.  “We are very worried about the vicious cycle of athletes
taking caffeine as a performance enhancer and then needing to
take drugs such as Stilnox to get to sleep,” he said. “While
caffeine has come off the WADA prohibited list in the last few
years, we still think that there are these consequential
problems and we’ll be making sure that our athletes are very
well briefed on them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  