-- Australian Housing Permits Post Record Month on Apartments
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-07-03T02:57:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/australian-housing-permits-post-record-month-boosting-currency.html
Australian home-building  approvals 
soared in May on apartment projects, a sign housing demand may
accelerate after the central bank cut  interest rates . The local
currency advanced.  The number of permits granted to build or renovate houses
and apartments gained by a record 27.3 percent from April, when
they fell a revised 7.6 percent, the Bureau of Statistics said
in Sydney today. The result was more than five times greater
than the median forecast for a 5 percent gain in a Bloomberg
News survey of 19 economists.  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  will keep
borrowing costs unchanged today, economists  predict  after he
lowered rates by 50 basis points in May and another quarter
point to 3.5 percent last month to help insulate the economy
from a global slowdown. Today’s report showed the surge in
approvals for apartments was driven by projects in New South
 Wales , Victoria and the Australian Capital Territory.  “Apartment approvals have traditionally been very
volatile; hence, whilst the gain in May is encouraging, it is
worth watching in future months,” said Celeste Tay, a
Singapore-based economist at 4cast Ltd. The gain in private-
house approvals may be a case of “catch up” following earlier
weakness because of changes in building procedures in Western
Australia state, she said.  Building approvals advanced 9.3 percent in May from a year
earlier, the report showed. That compares with economists’
forecast for a 15.2 percent drop year-over-year.  Approvals to build private houses rose 8.7 percent to 7,256
in May from the previous month, the report showed. Approvals for
apartments and renovations advanced 58.7 percent to 6,197.  The local dollar traded at $1.0269 at 12:19 p.m. in Sydney,
compared with $1.0254 before the data. Traders are pricing in no
change in rates at the RBA’s policy meeting today, swaps data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  