-- RBA Holds Key Rate at 3.5% as Prior Cuts Buoy Growth: Economy
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-07-03T06:00:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/australia-holds-key-rate-at-3-5-as-hiring-currency-strengthen.html
Australia ’s central bank kept
 interest rates  unchanged at a 2 1/2-year low, saying its recent
reductions in borrowing costs will help the economy weather a
more subdued global outlook.  Governor  Glenn Stevens  and his board left the overnight
cash-rate target at 3.5 percent, the  Reserve Bank  of Australia
said in a statement in Sydney today. The decision was predicted
by all 28 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  “There has been a material easing in monetary policy over
the past six months,” Stevens said. “The board judged that,
with inflation expected to be consistent with the target and
growth close to trend, but with a more subdued international
outlook than was the case a few months ago, the stance of
monetary policy remained appropriate.”  Australia recorded its best January-to-May period of hiring
in five years and a A$500 billion ($513 billion) investment
pipeline is driving growth in some regions, even as export
prices have slumped. Stevens, who cut rates by a total of 75
basis points in May and June, held after European Union leaders
agreed last week on measures to help Italy and  Spain  reduce the
cost of servicing debt.  “The global outlook continues to dominate a lot of their
discussion,” said Su-Lin Ong, head of Australian economic and
fixed-income strategy at  RBC Capital Markets  in Sydney. For the
RBA to cut rates in August, “you’ll need to see further
weakening in global activity indicators -- and you have had that
over the last month -- but probably more importantly some
renewed stress in global credit markets,” she said.  Currency Pares Gains  The local currency pared gains, trading at $1.0260 at 3:29
p.m. in Sydney from $1.0278 before the decision was announced.  “The exchange rate has been volatile recently, but overall
remains high,” Stevens said today.  Two days after Stevens eased last month, the central bank
in  China , Australia’s largest trading partner, reduced rates for
the first time since 2008 as  Europe ’s turmoil threatened to
disrupt the global economy.  China may introduce “more proactive” policies to support
growth by stabilizing foreign trade and expanding infrastructure
investment, the China Securities Journal reported June 27.  Even after last month’s rate cut, Australia has the highest
borrowing costs among major developed nations as Stevens seeks
to manage an economy powered by the biggest resource boom since
prospectors in New South  Wales  set off a gold rush in the 1850s.  Mining Boom  The latest bonanza -- for  iron ore , coal and natural gas --
is bringing investment projects and helped keep the  unemployment
rate  at 5.1 percent in May. That’s lower than 8.2 percent in the
U.S. and 11.1 percent in the euro area.  Elsewhere in the Asia-Pacific region today, China’s non-
manufacturing industries expanded at a faster pace in June as
the  property market  and new orders picked up, according to the
National Bureau of Statistics and China Federation of Logistics
and Purchasing.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index advanced for a fifth straight
trading day in  Tokyo , reaching 118.79, the highest in about
seven weeks.  Singapore’s purchasing managers’ index may show a slower
pace of growth for the manufacturing industry last month,
economists said in a Bloomberg survey.  In Europe, Spain may say registered unemployment fell for a
third month in June, according to a Bloomberg survey.
Construction in the U.K. probably expanded at a slower pace last
month, while the European Union’s statistics office is forecast
to say euro-area producer-price inflation slowed in May, surveys
showed.  U.S. Factories  A U.S. Commerce Department report is forecast by economists
to show factory orders rose for the first time in three months
in May.  Australia’s mining boom, rate differentials and the
opportunity to bet on Chinese growth has driven a 45 percent
appreciation in Australia’s currency since Jan. 1, 2009. The so-
called Aussie advanced 5.2 percent in June, the biggest monthly
increase since October.  The sustained strength of the local dollar has helped douse
consumer prices. A private gauge of Australian inflation
released this week dropped in June on weaker fuel and furniture
prices, signaling little cost pressure on consumers in the
second quarter.  Stevens today said the central bank’s inflation outlook
hasn’t changed, even with the July 1 introduction of a tax on
pollution emissions that will boost prices. “Maintaining low
inflation over the longer term will, however, require growth in
domestic costs to slow as the effects of the earlier  exchange
rate  appreciation wane,” he said.  Job Growth  Australia unexpectedly added 38,900 workers in May, and
annual economic growth of 4.3 percent in the first quarter was
the fastest pace since 2007, government reports showed since the
RBA’s June 5 meeting.  “ Interest rates  for borrowers have declined, to be a
little below their medium-term averages,” Stevens said today.
“Business credit has increased more strongly in recent months,
though credit growth remains modest overall.”  Earlier today, the  Australian Bureau of Statistics  said
building approvals in May jumped 27.3 percent from the previous
month, the biggest monthly gain on record.  Stevens said today the housing market “remains subdued.”  Other data in the past month showed Australia posted
monthly trade deficits from January through April,  consumer
confidence  near the lowest level of the year and a manufacturing
industry in a fourth month of contraction.  The RBA has cut the  cash rate  four times in the past eight
months -- by 25 basis points at successive meetings in November
and December, by 50 points on May 1 and by another 25 points
last month.  European Union leaders ushered in the strongest rally in
the single currency and in Spanish bonds this year after
agreeing at their June 28-29 summit to loosen bailout rules, lay
the foundations for a banking union and break the link between
sovereign and banking debt through the direct recapitalization
of lenders.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shamim Adam in Melbourne at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net  