-- Mayor Bloomberg Hosts Hot Dog Eaters at City Hall Weigh-In
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-07-03T19:02:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/mayor-bloomberg-welcomes-hot-dog-eaters-at-city-hall-weigh-in.html
New York Mayor  Michael Bloomberg , who
wants to limit restaurant sales of sugared drinks to 16-ounce
cups as part of his anti-obesity campaign, welcomed competitors
in  Nathan’s Famous Inc.’s (NATH)  Fourth of July hotdog-eating contest
to a City Hall weigh-in.  Joey “Jaws” Chestnut, 28, who in 2009 set a record at the
Coney Island boardwalk tube-steak emporium for devouring 68
hotdogs and buns in 10 minutes, stood 6-foot-1 and weighed 210
pounds (95 kilograms) today. The female record-holder, Sonya
“The Black Widow” Thomas, 44, who consumed 41 in 2009, tipped
the scales at 100 pounds on her 5-foot-5 frame.  Bloomberg, 70, who has sampled the wares of several
sidewalk hot dog vendors in his 10 years as mayor, emceed the
weigh-in for 29 contestants at an annual ceremony in City Hall
Park. Yesterday, he touted a nutrition program that would make
discounts on fruit and vegetables more available to food-stamp
recipients. Hot dogs -- Nathan’s says they contain  297 calories 
each -- are acceptable once in a while, he said.  “Having it occasionally is fine,” Bloomberg said
yesterday of high-calorie fast food. “If you want to eat 65 hot
dogs in 10 minutes, that’s even fine; just don’t do it more than
once a year and you won’t have a problem. There’s nothing wrong
about most things in moderation.”  In May, the  Physicians Committee for Responsible Medicine ,
a Washington-based nonprofit, told President  Barack Obama  to
stop eating hot dogs in front of news cameras, saying
“processed meats like hot dogs kill more Americans each year
than tobacco does, and they cost taxpayers billions of dollars
in health care.”  Billions Consumed  The  National Hot Dog & Sausage Council , a Washington-based
industry group, estimates that Americans eat about 20 billion
hot dogs a year, including about 20.5 million that  Major League
Baseball  said were sold in its stadiums last year.  The council is part of the American Meat Institute, a
lobbying group created in 1906 after Upton Sinclair wrote “The
Jungle,” a novel that exposed slaughterhouse practices and
brought a wave of U.S. government food-processing regulation,
said Janet Riley, the council’s director.  The hot dog’s historic ancestor, the sausage, traces its
origins as far back as ancient  Greece , when Homer mentioned it
in “The Odyssey,” Riley said.  Its roots in the U.S. date to the 19th century, when German
and Polish immigrants sold sausages wrapped in bread from carts
on city streets, said Bruce Kraig, author of “Hot Dog, A Global
History,” and president of the  Culinary Historians of Chicago. 
The name hot dog came from people joking about how they didn’t
know what meat went into them, Kraig said.  Dog Wagon  A Yale University humor magazine provided one of the first
American references to the food in 1894 with a mention of
“Billy’s dog wagon,” which offered sausages inside buns to
students, Kraig said.  “It’s a central part of American culture,” he said. “It
appeared in all public venues where people got together, it
became a huge social integrator, on city streets and in
ballparks and at fairs, and it contributed to the American
belief in entrepreneurship, a way for immigrants at the bottom
of the economic scale to move up and make their way.”  Nathan’s, founded on  Brooklyn ’s Coney Island boardwalk by
Nathan Handwerker in 1916, is part of that mythology, Kraig
said.  Nathan’s Famous, a public company since 1993, has promoted
the hot-dog contest as a media event since 1972, according to
the Jericho, New York-based company. It reported $62.2 million
in revenue in the fiscal year ended March 25, a 16 percent
increase over 2011. Today, its stock price hit a 52-week
high of $30.34, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman in  New York  at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  