-- Cruzeiro do Sul Soars Most Since IPO on Takeover Speculation
-- B y   D e n y s e   G o d o y   a n d   F r a n c i s c o   M a r c e l i n o
-- 2012-07-03T20:58:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/banco-cruzeiro-advances-most-on-record-in-sao-paulo-trading-1-.html
Banco Cruzeiro do Sul SA , the lender
that was seized by  Brazil ’s central bank, surged the most since
its initial public offering five years ago on speculation a
bigger rival is close to purchasing it.  Shares jumped 57 percent, the most since June 2007, to 2.25
reais at the close of trading in Sao Paulo, rebounding from a
one-month rout that erased 78 percent of the stock’s value
following the government-ordered takeover. Today’s trading
volume surged more than five-fold from the average over the past
three months.  Mounting speculation that  Banco Bradesco SA (BBDC4) ,  Latin
America ’s second-biggest lender by market value, or billionaire
 Andre Esteves ’s Banco BTG Pactual SA will buy Cruzeiro do Sul is
sparking the rally, according to Sandro Fernandes, an
analyst at Geraldo Correa Corretora.  “In the market, everybody is talking about BTG Pactual and
 Banco Bradesco  as the best candidates to acquire Cruzeiro,”
Fernandes said by phone from  Belo Horizonte , Brazil. “The
bank’s client portfolio seems very attractive to them.”  A press official for Bradesco declined to comment. Officials 
at BTG Pactual didn’t respond to a request for comment.  Midsized Brazilian banks are struggling to find funding 
since the privately owned deposit-insurance fund, or FGC, bailed 
out Banco Panamericano SA in January 2011 amid a fraud 
investigation. FGC has since financed buyers of Banco Schahin SA
and Banco Matone SA, while the central bank liquidated Oboe 
Credito Financiamento e Investimento SA and Banco Morada SA.  ‘Serious’ Violations  The central bank seized Cruzeiro on June 4, saying in a
statement that it found “serious” financial violations. Policy
makers put the lender under the administration of FGC for about
180 days. The fund requested an audit of the bank, which can
take as long as 90 days, Antonio Carlos Bueno, the head of FGC,
told reporters June 4. Bueno said the FGC would seek a buyer for
the bank.  BTG held talks to acquire Cruzeiro before the takeover, and
negotiations ended because the lender’s credit portfolio lacked
proper documentation, Bueno said June 4. The central bank could
not verify 1.3 billion of loans Cruzeiro claimed to have made,
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francisco Marcelino in  Sao Paulo  at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  