-- Banks Ask N.Y. Judge to Throw Out Libor Antritust Suits
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d   a n d   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-07-03T19:38:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/banks-ask-n-y-judge-to-throw-out-libor-antritust-suits.html
More than a dozen banks including
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Bank of America Corp.  asked a U.S. judge to
dismiss a group of lawsuits in which they are accused of trying
to manipulate the London interbank offered rate.  Plaintiffs including the City of Baltimore and New Britain
Firefighters’ Benefit Fund sued the banks in 2011, contending
they “suppressed” the Libor -- a key metric to set  interest
rates  for trillions of dollars in financial instruments.  More than 20 cases have been aggregated before U.S.
District Judge Naomi Reice Buchwald in New York. In some suits,
the lenders are accused of antitrust violations, in others
currency traders allege the manipulation injured investment
returns.  The allegations “undermine, rather than support, the
conclusion that a conspiracy to suppress” the Libor existed,
lawyers for  UBS AG (UBSN)  wrote in court papers filed with Buchwald on
June 30. The antitrust complaints “implicitly acknowledge that
defendants regularly enter into contracts in which they will
benefit from higher interest rates,” the lender said.  Fixes Rates  Libor  fixes the interest rates under which banks lend money
to one another for as little as a day and as long as a year.
Rates for 10 different currencies including the  U.S. dollar ,
Japanese yen and British pound are computed daily after
canvassing banks that comprise membership panels for each type
of money.  Last week, Britain’s second-biggest bank,  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,
agreed to pay U.S. and U.K. regulators 290 million pounds ($455
million) in fines for attempting to manipulate those rates,
which are relied upon to fix interest in transactions worth
trillions of dollars.  Under a two-year non-prosecution agreement with the U.S.
Justice Department, Barclays agreed to cooperate in the
international probe.  Some of the  New York  plaintiffs claim an analysis by
outside consultants found Libor suppression in 2007 and 2008,
allowed banks to mask their level of risk during a period of
financial crisis.  “I think this is a case that will survive a motion to
dismiss,” attorney Jeffrey Shinder, managing partner in the New
York office of Constantine Cannon LLP, said today in a telephone
interview about the antitrust claims. No one lender has the
ability to influence Libor, he said.  “They could not have accomplished what they’re doing
without the collusion of other banks,” said Shinder, who isn’t
involved in the case. “Clearly collusion was going on.
Clearly.”  The consolidated case is In re Libor-Based Financial
Instruments Antitrust Litigation, 11-MD-2262, Southern District
of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  