-- Barclays Three Top Leaders Quit Amid Bank of England Dispute
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e   a n d   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2012-07-03T18:30:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/barclays-s-three-top-managers-quit-amid-bank-of-england-dispute.html
Barclays Plc’s (BARC)  top three executives
resigned amid a deepening dispute about whether the Bank of
England pushed the lender to submit artificially low Libor rates
during the financial crisis.  Robert Diamond  stepped down today as chief executive
officer of Britain’s second-biggest bank and Jerry Del Missier
quit as chief operating officer, London-based Barclays said in a
statement. Chairman Marcus Agius, 65, will quit once he has
found a replacement for Diamond, who has worked at the bank for
the past 16 years and oversaw its  investment banking  expansion.  The three are leaving after regulators fined the bank a
record 290 million pounds ($455 million) for attempting to rig
the London interbank offered rate for profit. With Diamond due
to appear before lawmakers tomorrow to answer their questions,
Barclays released a note of a 2008 call purporting to show that
 Paul Tucker , the central bank’s then markets director, hinted
the firm could cut its Libor rates.  “Tucker stated that the levels of calls he was receiving
from Whitehall were ‘senior’ and that while he was certain we
did not need advice, that it did not always need to be the case
that we appeared as high as we have recently,” Diamond said in
an Oct. 30, 2008 e-mail to then CEO  John Varley  and Del Missier.  Diamond, 60, didn’t believe he had received any instruction
or that he gave any order to Del Missier to lower the bank’s
submissions, Barclays said in evidence to lawmakers today. Del
Missier, 50, concluded that the Bank of England had instructed
the firm not to keep Libor so high and mistakenly instructed
employees to lower their submissions, Barclays said.  Mervyn King  The disclosure marks a worsening in relations between
Barclays, employer of almost 150,000 people worldwide, and its
regulators. Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  and Financial
Services Authority Chairman  Adair Turner  had pushed to oust
Diamond, the British Broadcasting Corp. reported earlier today.
Tucker, now deputy governor of the  Bank of England , is a front-
runner to succeed King in June next year.  “This is all just a bit of a red herring,” said Vivek Raja, a U.K. banking analyst at Oriel Securities Ltd. in London.
“What was happening during the credit crisis isn’t really all
that important. Bringing its rate down to be part of the Libor
calculation can’t be seen to be as much of a manipulation as
what the derivatives traders were doing from 2005.”  Rigging Rates  U.K. and U.S. regulators found Barclays “systematically”
attempted to rig the London and euro interbank offered rates for
profit from 2005. Libor, which is determined by about 18 banks’
daily estimates of how much it would cost them to borrow from
one another for different time frames and in different
currencies, is the benchmark for more than $360 trillion of
securities, including mortgages,  student loans  and swaps.  A Bank of England spokesman declined to comment on the
document. Barclays closed down 0.8 percent at 167.05 pence in
London trading for a market value of about 20.4 billion pounds.
The stock is the worst-performing of the six-member FTSE 350
Banks index so far this year. It fell 16 percent on June 28 when
the fine was announced.  Diamond ran the London-based bank’s securities unit when
the Libor manipulation occurred. He lost the contest for the CEO
post to Varley in 2003 and became president of the bank in 2005.
He stayed, and by 2007, his Barclays Capital unit accounted for
31 percent of pretax profit. Varley stepped down in 2010,
clearing the way for Diamond to replace him.  ABN Amro  The Massachusetts-born Boston Red Sox fan began his career
as a lecturer at the  University of Connecticut  in 1976 and has
also held roles at  Credit Suisse First Boston  in Tokyo and New
York and Morgan Stanley.  In 2007, Diamond and Varley lost the takeover battle for
 ABN Amro  Holding NV to a group led by Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc. The takeover of the Dutch lender eventually forced
RBS to seek a government bailout.  A year later, Diamond struck a deal to buy the North
American investment-banking business of bankrupt Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. for $1.75 billion. He then embarked on a hiring
spree to expand the investment banking unit, adding stock
underwriting and merger advisory businesses and bankers in
Europe and Asia to match its U.S. standing.  Diamond had yesterday defied pressure to quit, pledging to
implement the findings of a review into how the bank sets Libor.
Diamond had already come under fire from politicians for his
background in investment banking and his compensation.  American Banker  “Diamond is an out-and-out American investment banker,”
said Chris Roebuck, a visiting professor at London’s Cass
Business School. “He says what he thinks and he drives hard to
maximize the performance of his bank. That combination isn’t
necessarily what fits with the British approach to things. As a
result, he has a tendency to upset people.”  Diamond was branded the “unacceptable face of banking” by
then-Business Secretary  Peter Mandelson  in 2010 over his
compensation. His 12 million-pound remuneration, including a
5.75 million-pound payment toward his personal tax bill last
year, made him Britain’s top-paid bank CEO. In January 2011 he
told Parliamentarians that the time for “remorse and apology”
for banks needed to be over, prompting political outcry.  Diamond is entitled to a payoff of 2 million pounds to 21
million pounds depending whether the board determines him to
have left in good standing, according to Manifest Information
Services Ltd., a proxy voting firm that advises clients managing
3 trillion pounds of assets.  Severance Pay  He has received at least 120 million pounds in salary,
bonuses and share awards since joining Barclays’s main board in
2005, Manifest said. That excludes the 26.8 million pounds he
made on selling shares in  Barclays Global Investors  in 2009.
Agius told reporters on a call today the bank hasn’t yet set
Diamond’s severance terms.  The former CEO is due to be questioned by British lawmakers
on the Treasury Select Committee tomorrow, days after the
government announced a parliamentary inquiry into the U.K.
banking industry. Agius postponed his testimony, scheduled for
the following day, to next week.  “The external pressure placed on Barclays has reached a
level that risks damaging the franchise,” Diamond said in the
statement. “I cannot let that happen. I am deeply disappointed
that the impression created by the events announced last week
about what Barclays and its people stand for could not be
further from the truth.”  Del Missier  Barclays is now under pressure to find a replacement CEO,
Chairman and COO. Del Missier, 50, jointly ran corporate and
investment banking with  Rich Ricci , until he was promoted to the
COO position last month.  “It’s going to be very difficult to find a candidate that
ticks the boxes,” said Stephane Rambosson, managing partner at
executive search firm Veni Partners in London. “There are very
few internal candidates and if you look externally, what is
Barclays offering? A huge amount of responsibility and scrutiny
over pay at a bank with no clear contingency plan.”  Bill Winters , 50, the former co-chief executive officer of
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s investment bank and a member of the
government-sponsored Independent Commission on Banking would be
ideal for the CEO position, said Cormac Leech, an analyst at
Liberum Capital Ltd. in London. Winters, who has started an
asset management firm, declined to comment.  Hester, Jenkins  RBS CEO  Stephen Hester  “is highly regarded and if offered
the Barclays CEO role, may well take it since it would offer a
greater chance of bonus potential than state-run RBS,” analysts
including Andrew Lim at Espirito Santo Investment Bank wrote in
a note to investors today.  Internally,  Antony Jenkins , the head of  consumer banking ,
is the favorite to replace Diamond, bookmaker Paddy Power Plc
said in an e-mailed statement. Investors may be prepared to
overlook his lack of investment banking expertise, Lim said.  “Barclays is in big trouble,” said  Jason Kennedy , CEO of
Kennedy Group, a London-based recruitment firm. “The captain is
gone, the first officer is gone. The chief engineer has gone and
therefore the oil tanker is drifting with no port of call.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net . 