-- Diamond Quits as Pressure Mounts on Barclays Over Libor
-- B y   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y   a n d   L i a m   V a u g h a n
-- 2012-07-03T13:47:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/barclays-ceo-diamond-quits-after-record-libor-rigging-fine-1-.html
Robert Diamond , the architect of
 Barclays Plc (BARC) ’s  investment banking  expansion, resigned as chief
executive officer, succumbing to political pressure to go after
the bank admitted to rigging global  interest rates .  Diamond, 60, will leave immediately, the London-based
bank said in a statement today, a day before he faces questions
by British lawmakers. Chief Operating Officer Jerry Del Missier 
also stepped down, while Marcus Agius, who said yesterday he 
planned to resign, will become full-time chairman and lead the 
search for a new CEO.  Barclays was hit by a record 290 million-pound ($455
million) fine last week for rigging the benchmark for more than
$360 trillion of securities. Diamond had yesterday defied
pressure to quit, pledging to implement the findings of a review
into how the bank sets the  London  interbank offered rate. U.K.
regulators are weighing whether to start criminal probe into
Libor-fixing.  “Diamond’s position had clearly become untenable,” said
Gary Greenwood, a banking analyst at Shore Capital in London.
“While the company says that it will consider internal and
external candidates to fill the role of CEO, we believe that it
is of paramount importance that an external appointment is made
in order to clean up the image of the company.”  Diamond became CEO of Barclays on Jan. 1, 2011 after 
joining the bank in 1996.  Shares Rise  The  stock  pared gains of as much as 4.8 percent and was up
1.7 percent to 171.25 pence at 2:45 p.m. in London trading,
giving the company a market value of about 21 billion pounds.  “There comes a point in time when the board says enough is
enough and it became very personal in terms of the criticism,”
said  Christopher Wheeler , a London-based banking analyst at
Mediobanca SpA. “It allows the bank to draw a line. The
priority now is to find an appropriate chief executive who has
not been affected by all this.”  Agius, who said when he resigned that he would remain in
place as chairman until a successor could be found, will lead
the search for a replacement for Diamond. Agius’s plans to leave
eventually are unchanged, Barclays said.  Diamond and Agius are the industry’s most senior executives
to announce their departures following the probes. Diamond had
already come under fire from politicians for his background in
investment banking and his compensation.  “The external pressure placed on Barclays has reached a
level that risks damaging the franchise,” Diamond said in the
statement. “I cannot let that happen. I am deeply disappointed
that the impression created by the events announced last week
about what Barclays and its people stand for could not be
further from the truth.”  Lawsuit Concern  The shares plunged 16 percent on June 28 on speculation
Barclays could face billions of dollars in lawsuits. U.S. and
U.K. regulators said traders at the U.K.’s second-biggest bank
by assets routinely coordinated with counterparts from at least
four other lenders in an attempt to move Libor and other
benchmarks.  Diamond stepped down a day after the government announced a
parliamentary inquiry into the U.K. banking industry. He is due
to be questioned by British lawmakers on the Treasury Select
Committee tomorrow. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne 
welcomed Diamond’s resignation, telling BBC Radio 4 today he
hoped it would be the first step towards a “new culture of
responsibility” in British banking.  ‘Lightning Rod’  “I think after everyone went home Bob thought, there’s
gigantic pressure on the organization, and I’m a lightning
rod,” said Leigh Bruce, a Barclays spokesman in London. “Bob
decided that this could become a distraction and the best thing
for the bank and the franchise and everybody was for him to step
aside and let the bank go forward.”  U.K. and U.S. regulators found Barclays “systematically”
attempted to rig the London and euro interbank offered rates for
profit. Libor, which is determined by 18 banks’ daily estimates
of how much it would cost them to borrow from one another for
different time frames and in different currencies, is the
benchmark for more than $360 trillion of securities, including
mortgages,  student loans  and swaps.  “I don’t think anybody should underestimate the
seriousness of this,” said  Dominic Rossi , chief investment
officer for equities at Fidelity Worldwide Investments, one of
Barclays’s 10 biggest shareholders.  Red Sox  Diamond, Del Missier and  Rich Ricci , who runs corporate and
investment banking, will all forgo their bonuses this year.  Diamond ran the London-based bank’s securities unit when
the Libor manipulation occurred. He lost the contest for the CEO
post to  John Varley  in 2003 and became president of the bank in
2005. He stayed, and by 2007, his Barclays Capital unit
accounted for 31 percent of pretax profit. Varley stepped down
in 2010, clearing the way for Diamond to replace him.  The Massachusetts-born Boston  Red Sox  fan began his career
as a lecturer at the  University of Connecticut  in 1976 and has
also held roles at  Credit Suisse First Boston  in  Tokyo  and  New
York  and Morgan Stanley.  In 2007, Diamond and Varley lost the takeover battle for
ABN Amro Holding NV to a group led by Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc. The takeover of the Dutch lender eventually forced
RBS to seek a government bailout.  A year later, Diamond struck a deal to buy the North
American investment-banking business of bankrupt Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. for $1.75 billion. He then embarked on a hiring
spree to expand the investment banking unit, adding stock
underwriting and merger advisory businesses and bankers in
Europe and Asia to match its U.S. standing.  ‘Out-And-Out American’  “I joined Barclays 16 years ago because I saw an
opportunity to build a world-class investment banking
business,” Diamond said in today’s statement. “We built world
class businesses together and added our own distinctive chapter
to the long and proud history of Barclays.”  Diamond was branded the “unacceptable face of banking” by
then-Business Secretary  Peter Mandelson  in 2010 over his
compensation. His 12 million-pound remuneration, including a
5.75 million-pound payment toward his personal tax bill last
year, made him Britain’s top-paid bank CEO. In January 2011 he
told Parliamentarians that the time for “remorse and apology”
for banks needed to be over, prompting political outcry.  “Diamond is an out-and-out American investment banker,”
said Chris Roebuck, a visiting professor at London’s Cass
Business School. “He says what he thinks and he drives hard to
maximize the performance of his bank. That combination isn’t
necessarily what fits with the British approach to things. As a
result, he has a tendency to upset people.”  Regulators  As of Dec. 31,  Diamond owned  13.2 million shares, valued at
about 22.5 million pounds, according to the lender’s annual
report. Under his contract terms he is entitled to 12 months’
salary, medical and pension benefits as compensation for loss of
office, the report says. Diamond’s pension contributions and
salary were valued at 2.03 million pounds, the report said.  A Barclays spokesman declined to immediately comment on his
severance package or whether his resignation would qualify as
loss of office.  His tenure as CEO has been marred by disputes with
regulators, some of which he inherited from his predecessors:
the first was over the mis-selling of payment-protection
insurance to customers, the second over tax-avoidance plans the
Treasury described as “abusive,” and the third over improper
sales of derivatives to customers.  At the same time, Diamond regularly called on banks to be
more “effective citizens.”  His departure may stoke speculation the lender may divide
its consumer and investment banking operations.  ‘So Big’  “The problem is the bank is so big,” said  John Smith , a
senior  fund manager  at Brown Shipley & Co., which manages 2.3
billion pounds including Barclays shares. “It’s getting beyond
making money for themselves. You’re taking risks with the U.K.
economy, people’s savings, and not just shareholders’ capital.”  After taking over as CEO in 2011, Diamond vowed to boost
Barclays’ return on equity, a profitability measure, to 13
percent. The measure stood at 6.6 percent at the end of the
year.  The stock  has sunk more than 30 percent since Diamond took
over in January 2011.  Net income for 2011 fell to 3 billion pounds from 3.56
billion pounds in the year-earlier period as investment banking
revenue shrank.  “No-one seems to be looking at operational performance
anymore, but this is exactly the opposite of what the group
needs when there is very significant reshaping that needs to be
done,” said  Ian Gordon , an analyst at Investec in London.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net ;
Liam Vaughan in London at 
 lvaughan6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  