-- Barclays Under Pressure to Find an External CEO Successor
-- B y   L i a m   V a u g h a n ,   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y   a n d   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2012-07-03T17:58:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/barclays-under-pressure-to-find-an-external-ceo-successor-1-.html
Barclays Plc (BARC) , Britain’s second-
largest bank, is under pressure to find an external candidate to
distance the bank from Chief Executive Officer  Robert Diamond ,
who quit after the lender was fined for rigging Libor rates.  Diamond, 60, quit today amid political pressure to go after
the lender was fined a record 290 million pounds ($455 million)
for attempting to manipulate the London interbank offered rate,
the benchmark for about $360 trillion of securities ranging from
mortgages to student loans.  “It’s of paramount importance that an external appointment
is made in order to clean up the image of the company,” Gary Greenwood, a banking analyst at Shore Capital, said. “The
question now will be who will come in to replace Mr Diamond and
whether further senior heads will roll?”  Barclays may struggle to find an outsider quickly, while
insiders such as securities unit head  Rich Ricci , may not be
sufficiently independent to appease investors.  “It’s going to be very difficult to find a candidate that
ticks the boxes,” said Stephane Rambosson, managing partner at
executive search firm Veni Partners in London. “There are very
few internal candidates and if you look externally, what is
Barclays offering? A huge amount of responsibility and scrutiny
over pay at a bank with no clear contingency plan.”  Shares Drop  Officials at Barclays declined to comment on successors for
Diamond and Agius. The shares declined 0.8 percent to 167.05
pence in London trading, giving the company a market value of
about 20 billion pounds. The stock is this year’s worst
performer in the six-member FTSE 350 banks index.  The lack of a clear  succession plan  is a “board failure,”
 Simon Johnson , a professor at the  Massachusetts Institute of
Technology ’s Sloan School of Management, said in a telephone
interview. “The board’s responsibility is to hire and fire the
CEO if anything happens, and to have a succession plan. It may
speak to the broader cultural problems within Barclays.”  Marcus Agius, 65, said he would step down as Barclays
chairman yesterday. Today, the bank said he would remain to
oversee the search for Diamond’s successor before leaving.  “Companies should have a clear succession planning
strategy for all senior leaders,” said Neil Owen, Global
Practice Director at Robert Half Financial Services, a London-
based recruitment firm. “Failing to do so results in the
dilemma that Barclays faces.”  Step Down?  Ricci, 48, who runs the investment bank, would be an
unlikely potential successors, said  Simon Willis , an analyst at
 Daniel Stewart Securities Plc (DAN)  in London. He could be seen to be
too close to the unit involved, he said.  Jerry Del Missier, 50, who was named chief operating
officer last month and who jointly ran the investment bank until
then, also stepped down today.  Bill Winters , 50, the former co-chief executive officer of
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s investment bank and a member of the
government-sponsored Independent Commission on Banking would be
ideal for the CEO position, said Cormac Leech, an analyst at
Liberum Capital Ltd. in London. Winters, who has started an
asset management firm, declined to comment.  David Roberts , Lloyds Banking Group Plc deputy chairman and
a former Barclays executive, would be a “safe pair of hands and
understands the businesses,” said Edward Firth, a banking
analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd. in London.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc CEO  Stephen Hester  “is
highly regarded and if offered the Barclays CEO role, may well
take it since it would offer a greater chance of bonus potential
than state-run RBS,”  analysts including Andrew Lim at Espirito
Santo Investment Bank wrote in a note to investors.  Internally,  Antony Jenkins , the head of consumer banking,
is the favorite to replace Diamond, bookmaker  Paddy Power Plc (PAP) 
said in an e-mailed statement.  Jenkins’s “lack of investment banking expertise may be
overlooked by investors given that such experience is not
exactly a positive right now,” Lim said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  