-- BBVA Compass Settles Overdraft Suit for $11.5 Million
-- B y   S u s a n n a h   N e s m i t h
-- 2012-07-03T23:11:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/bbva-compass-settles-overdraft-suit-for-11-5-million.html
BBVA Compass agreed to pay $11.5
million to settle a lawsuit accusing the bank of improperly
manipulating customers’ checking-account transactions to
generate excess overdraft fees, according to a court filing.  U.S. Bank  NA also reached a settlement, agreeing to pay $55
million, according to another filing today in federal court in
Miami. Plaintiffs’ lawyers announced the U.S. Bank agreement
yesterday. Neither bank admitted liability, and the agreements
are subject to court approval.  Consumers sued more than 30 banks, claiming the banks
resequenced the actual order of transactions, posting them in
highest-to-lowest dollar amount instead of the chronological
order, leading to excess overdraft fees. Those cases were
consolidated before U.S. District Judge James Lawrence King.  PNC Bank, a unit of PNC Financial Services Group, reached a
$90 million settlement in June. Toronto-Dominion Bank,  Canada ’s
second-largest bank, entered in May a preliminary agreement to
pay $62 million to settle overdraft claims. In April, Citizens
Bank agreed to pay $137.5 million. In February JPMorgan Chase &
Co., the biggest U.S. bank by assets, reached an agreement for
$110 million.  “We have made changes to the way we handle customers’
accounts in recent years, and we will continue to look for
opportunities to enhance our consumer products,” Teri Charest,
a spokeswoman for U.S. Bank in  Minneapolis , said in an e-mail.  “We are pleased to resolve this matter,” Shane Clanton,
general counsel for BBVA Compass, said in an e-mail. “Even
before this lawsuit was filed, BBVA Compass began to develop a
banking platform designed to post many transactions, including
debit card transactions, in chronological order. Many of these
transactions will be posted in real time as they occur.”  The platform is being used in  Colorado  and is being rolled
out across the bank’s franchise, Clanton said.  The case is In re Checking Account Overdraft Litigation,
09-md-02036, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  Florida 
(Miami).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susannah Nesmith in Miami at  susannahnesmith@yahoo.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  