-- Bets Brazil’s OGX Will Get Cash From Batista Buoy Stock
-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 2012-07-03T21:05:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/bets-ogx-to-get-cash-from-batista-buoy-stock-corporate-brazil.html
OGX Petroleo (OGXP3)  & Gas Participacoes SA,
the Brazilian  oil company  that lost about 40 percent of its
value last week after cutting output targets, is forecast by
analysts to seek fresh capital from billionaire investor  Eike Batista  as it ramps up drilling.  OGX will have to boost spending after announcing it needs
to drill twice as many wells to reach planned capacity at its
first three projects, said Ricardo Correa, an analyst at
brokerage Ativa SA.Batista, OGX’s controlling shareholder,
pledged in a conference call on June 27 to increase drilling
after the Rio de Janeiro-based company cut output estimates on
its first two wells by as much as 75 percent.  The well results complicate the company’s efforts to become
cash-flow positive by 2014 and scale back the size of its
drilling fleet by as much as 50 percent in early 2013, Correa
said. OGX ended the first quarter with about $3.6 billion in
cash and plans to invest $2 billion this year, Chief Financial
Officer Roberto Monteiro said in a June 27 call with analysts.  “By next year, the company will need some cash,” Nataniel
Cezimbra, an analyst at Banco do Brasil, said in a telephone
interview from Sao Paulo. “They’re going to need to present a
different plan, a change in strategy.”  Moody’s Investor Service cut OGX’s outlook to negative
today, saying its cash levels could “materially decline” by
the end of 2013 because of the lower-than-expected production at
the Tubarao Azul field.  OGX fell 3.2 percent to 6.10 reais in Sao Paulo after
gaining 15 percent yesterday. The stock fell to a record low of
5.05 reais on June 28.  Buying Shares  “A lot of people are saying he will probably come out and
buy shares in OGX -- he’s done it before,”  Adriano Pires , head
of the Brazilian Center for Infrastructure, said in a telephone
interview from Rio de Janeiro. Batista “could also find a
partner for OGX because he has said many times he was
negotiating a stake in OGX with the Chinese and others.”  OGX doesn’t need to seek funding at this time, Monteiro
said in an e-mailed response to questions. The total amount of
wells OGX needs to drill at Tubarao Azul depends on conditions
at the reservoir, he said, adding that the lower-than-expected
production estimates only apply to the first two wells.  Batista, speaking on the June 27 conference call,
underscored that his EBX Group, which controls OGX, has $9
billion in cash.  “That’s a nice cushion,”  Anisa Redman , an oil analyst at
HSBC Holdings Plc, said in a telephone interview from  New York .
OGX fields in the offshore Campos Basin are “less risky,” she
said, because “the track record at Campos from Petrobras and
other players has been pretty strong.”  Main Discoveries  OGX’s main discoveries are in the Campos Basin, home to
about 80 percent of  Brazil ’s oil production, where state-
controlled  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PBR)  is the biggest producer.  Suppliers including  Schlumberger Ltd. (SLB) ,  Baker Hughes Inc. (BHI) 
and Wellstream Holdings Plc, which provided goods and services
for OGX’s first group of wells in Campos, stand to benefit from
the larger number of production wells the company needs, Auro Rozenbaum, an analyst at Banco Bradesco SA, said in a telephone
interview from  Sao Paulo .  Last year OGX told investors its wells in the Campos Basin
would produce as much as 20,000 barrels a day, about six times
average production in the region, because its reservoirs had
higher permeability than those where Petrobras has been pumping
since 1977. OGX said on June 26 that production at its first two
wells stabilized at 5,000 barrels a day each, 75 percent below
the original estimates.  Shares plunged in the two days after the results put OGX’s
short- and long-term production targets in doubt.  Reduced Estimates  OGX will produce less than a third of its original target
of 730,000 barrels a day in 2015, UBS analyst Lilyanna Yang said
in a note to clients on June 29. Yang cut her 2015 target to
226,000 barrels a day and reduced her rating on OGX to neutral
from buy.  OGX will increase the number of individual wells it
connects to each of its floating, production, storage and
offloading units, or FPSOs, to reach capacity at each vessel,
Batista said on the call. The company plans to produce 250,000
barrels a day from the first three FPSOs, Batista said.  Monteiro declined to comment on long-term production
targets during the conference call, and the company didn’t
include any targets in its most recent presentation on June 26.
OGX had previously said it would reach production of 730,000
barrels a day in 2015 and 1.38 million barrels a day in 2019.  While HSBC’s Redman expects output to fall as much as 40
percent short of OGX’s original expectations, the company may
eventually reach more than 1 million barrels of oil a day.  “Asset wise, Campos Basin is capable of producing that,”
she said. “It depends on equipment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Millard in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net ;
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  