-- Big Banks’ ‘Living Wills’ Aiming for Bankruptcy Not Bailouts
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-07-03T21:38:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/big-banks-living-wills-promise-bankruptcy-instead-of-bailouts.html
U.S. regulators, seeking to prevent a
repeat of taxpayer-funded bailouts of the financial system,
released summaries of plans for breaking up nine of the world’s
largest banks in the event of an emergency.  The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. and  Federal Reserve 
posted the  public portions  of so-called living wills on websites
today as required by the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act. The documents
outline more detailed proposals submitted privately describing
how regulators could dismantle the companies if they fail.  The banks required to file were  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Bank
of America Corp. (BAC) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,
Morgan Stanley,  Barclays PLC (BCS) ,  Deutsche Bank AG (DB) ,  Credit Suisse
Group AG (CS)  and  UBS AG. (UBSN)   The aim of the living wills is to give regulators a plan
for shutting down complex financial firms without taxpayer
bailouts or the turmoil that followed the 2008 collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  Banks with more than $250 billion in nonbank assets were
the first of an eventual 125 firms required to produce
liquidation plans, which are expected to run into thousands of
pages. Nonbank companies declared by U.S. regulators to be
systemically important will also have to submit living wills.  Few Details  The public summaries of the wind-down plans reveal few
details. For instance, Bank of America’s summary says that
assets sold off during a resolution could go to a “range of
buyers including, but not limited to, national, international
and regional financial institutions; private equity and hedge
funds; and other financial asset buyers such as insurance
companies.”  Some banks said it would be possible to save their main
businesses and avoid full liquidations. As regulators
instructed, the proposals presumed markets would be functioning
normally with buyers ready to make large acquisitions without
government backing. That wasn’t the case when firms including
Bear Stearns Cos. collapsed during 2008’s credit crisis, and the
law allows the regulators to require more complicated stress
scenarios in future rounds.  Morgan Stanley (MS) , owner of the world’s largest brokerage, and
Goldman Sachs were among firms that said it may make the most
sense to sell assets or stand-alone businesses in the event of a
failure. Goldman Sachs predicted that such deals could help it
avoid a company-wide liquidation. Sales, which would need to be
conducted “quickly,” would likely be to other financial firms,
private-equity investors, insurance companies or sovereign
wealth funds, it said.  ‘Substantial Majority’  “If it proves impossible to sell GS Group businesses and
assets then it would be possible to liquidate a substantial
majority of GS Group’s assets,” the New York-based company
said. Such a strategy would “likely take more time,” it said.  “We believe the plan we sent to the Federal Reserve and
FDIC provides a process to enable an orderly resolution of
Goldman Sachs Group,” the company said in a statement today.
Its plan works in conjunction with “the firm’s well-established
risk management practices, conservative liquidity management
practices and rigorous approach to regularly marking assets to
market values,” it said.  JPMorgan, Bank of America, Citigroup and Zurich-based
 Credit Suisse (CSGN)  said that one option was to shunt FDIC-insured
entities into a so-called bridge bank that could be preserved.  Non-bank Units  Non-banking entities, such as Bank of America’s Merrill
Lynch unit, could be put through bankruptcy proceedings, the
 Charlotte , North Carolina-based company said. Broker-dealer
units would be liquidated according to the Securities Investor
Protection Act, it said.  Donald Lamson, who represents financial institutions at
Shearman & Sterling LLP in  Washington , said the lone failure
assumption could limit the plans’ usefulness in the event of a
broad financial crisis.  “The same stresses that would prompt me to put a
subsidiary up for sale would make it just as difficult for
another entity to make a purchase,” Lamson said.  Citigroup, the third-biggest U.S. bank with operations in
more than 100 countries, said it could separate its deposit-
taking banking unit,  Citibank NA , from broker-dealer units that
trade stocks and bonds. The New York-based parent would then go
bankrupt and sell off the broker-dealers, according to the plan.
Citibank would continue as a “smaller but recapitalized and
viable banking institution,” it said.  ‘Orderly Fashion’  Regulators could also wind down Citigroup by selling the
lender’s operations “in an orderly fashion,” the firm said.
Employees would be “well equipped” to help after already
reducing the size of the Citi Holdings division, according to
the plan. Chief Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit  created the unit
in 2009 to hold about $600 billion of unwanted investments.
Assets fell to $209 billion at the end of March.  “Our first blush review suggests few shocks,” according
to a note today by  Jaret Seiberg , a senior policy analyst with
Guggenheim Securities LLC in Washington. “Banks basically
suggest either turning themselves over to creditors or
liquidating the institutions. This should hardly shock
investors.”  The information in this first round of “very high-level”
summaries is not much deeper than what can be found in existing
securities filings, Lamson said.  ‘We Hope’  “I think that in a lot of these statements, there’s the
parenthetical: ‘We hope,’” Lamson said in an interview. “These
are all forward-looking assessments, and it’s very hard to see
the future.”  In coming months, regulators will assess whether each
living will represents a “credible” path to a rapid and
orderly bankruptcy. The agencies have 60 days from submission of
the plans to request more information from the companies.  “These banks owe American taxpayers more information than
these excerpts from their shareholder reports and the saccharine
reassurance that they’re safe,” Bartlett Naylor, who works on
financial policy at the Washington-based advocacy group  Public
Citizen , said in an interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  