-- BlackRock to Buy Swiss Re Infrastructure-Investments Unit
-- B y   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l
-- 2012-07-03T07:32:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/blackrock-to-buy-swiss-re-infrastructure-investments-unit.html
BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s largest
asset manager, will buy  Swiss Re Ltd. (SREN) ’s Private Equity Partners
AG for an undisclosed amount to extend its investments into
infrastructure.  Swiss Re’s $7.5 billion European private equity and
infrastructure fund of funds unit will be integrated with
BlackRock’s existing business, the New York-based firm said
today in an e-mailed statement. Those funds include a
“significant” commitment from Swiss Re.  Laurence D. Fink, who co-founded BlackRock in 1988, has
built the firm through a series of acquisitions, including the
2006 purchase of Merrill Lynch & Co.’s investment unit.
BlackRock last year expanded the alternatives division, which
manages  hedge funds , real estate funds and private-equity
strategies, and the Swiss Re acquisition extends the company’s
capabilities into infrastructure investing.  “It’s partially complementary when it comes to
infrastructure investments,” said  Christian Muschick , a
Frankfurt-based analyst with Silvia Qunadt Research. “It grows
assets under management and they can integrate it into a larger
unit and achieve some synergies from that potentially.”  The purchase expands BlackRock’s European and Asian
business and establishes a presence in  Switzerland  for a unit
that will have about $15 billion in client commitments, the firm
said.  Mitigating Risk  “In an environment where yields are low and volatility is
high, clients around the world are embracing alternatives which
offer higher return potential and the ability to mitigate
risk,” Matthew Botein, managing director and head of BlackRock
Alternative Investors, said in the statement.  Swiss Re, which said it will continue to hold the
underlying investments, already invests via BlackRock. The
world’s second-biggest reinsurer repurchased the unit in 2009
from hedge fund Horizon21 after disagreements over how the
business should be run.  “It has grown over time and the business has now reached a
size at which alternatives in ownership and the growth
strategies would need to be evaluated,” Rolf Tanner, a
spokesman for Zurich-based Swiss Re, said in a phone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carolyn Bandel in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  