-- Brazil Industry Output Down for Third Month Despite Measures
-- B y   D a v i d   B i l l e r   a n d   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t
-- 2012-07-03T15:01:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/brazil-industry-output-down-for-third-month-despite-measures-2-.html
Brazil ’s  industrial production  fell
in May for a third straight month, as a weaker currency and
government measures to boost sales of cars and other durable
goods failed to spur demand.  Output slid 0.9 percent from the month before, compared
with a median forecast of a 0.6 percent contraction from 40
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. On an annual basis production
was down 4.3 percent, the largest annual decline since a 7.6
percent drop in September 2009, the national statistics agency
said today in  Rio de Janeiro .  The world’s sixth-largest economy has recovered more slowly
than expected from a contraction in the third quarter of 2011,
as manufacturers lost ground to foreign competitors and indebted
consumers showed signs of crimping demand. The government has
reacted with cuts in taxes and  interest rates , as well as
programs to purchase locally produced goods, while companies
such as carmakers General Motors Co. and Daimler AG’s Mercedes-
Benz have ordered worker furloughs.  The “disastrous” industry result may jeopardize overall
economic growth in Brazil this year and increase bets for
steeper interest rate cuts, said  Andre Perfeito , chief economist
at Gradual Investimentos. “The name of the game is not even
growth anymore but not losing ground,” Perfeito said by
telephone from  Sao Paulo . “The scenario of a Selic at 6 percent
at the end of the cycle has gained weight.”  Rate Cuts  Brazil’s central bank has cut its Selic lending rate since
August by 400 basis points to a record 8.5 percent. Economists
expect the rate to fall to 7.5 percent this year, according to
the latest central bank survey.  Brazil’s gross domestic product expanded 2.7 percent in
2011, down from 7.5 percent in 2010. Analysts surveyed by the
country’s central bank reduced their 2012 growth forecast for
the eighth straight week to 2.05 percent, lower than the central
bank’s latest forecast for 2.5 percent.  Output in May fell in 14 of 27 sectors, led by a 4.5
percent drop in vehicle production. Capital goods production, a
barometer of investment, declined 1.8 percent.  A 15 percent depreciation of the real between March and May
made imported goods more expensive and Brazilian manufacturers
more competitive abroad. This was largely offset by weakening
global demand,  David Beker , Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s
chief Brazil economist, said by telephone from Sao Paulo.  Industry Suffering  Brazil’s industry suffered more than other sectors of the
economy because a high cost of borrowing last year compounded
long-standing problems such as poor infrastructure, rising labor
costs and a heavy tax burden,  Ilan Goldfajn , chief economist at
Itau Unibanco Holding SA, wrote in a column in O Estado de Sao
Paulo newspaper today.  Current record-low borrowing costs will help offset high
labor costs and eventually benefit Brazilian manufacturers,
Daniel Ribeiro Leichsenring, chief economist at Credit Suisse
Hedging-Griffo Asset Management SA said by telephone from Sao
Paulo. “It’s not going to be a strong recovery, but there’s
going to be a recovery.”  Brazil posted a  trade surplus  of $7.1 billion for the first
half of the year, the smallest surplus for that period since
2002, Alessandro Teixeira, executive secretary of the Trade
Ministry, told reporters yesterday in Brasilia.  Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  announced last month that
the government would maintain IPI tax breaks on  consumer goods 
such as furniture and appliances, and spend 8.43 billion reais
($4.25 billion) on procurement of vehicles and other equipment
through year-end.  The yield on interest rate future contracts maturing in
January 2014, the most traded in Sao Paulo today, fell four
basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 7.80 percent at 11:23
a.m. local time. The real weakened 0.4 percent to 1.9940 per
 U.S. dollar .  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Biller in Boston at 
 dbiller1@bloomberg.net ;
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  