-- Brown’s Pension Talks With California Democrats Falter
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2012-07-03T20:10:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/brown-s-pension-talks-with-california-democrats-falter.html
Governor Jerry Brown and Democrats
who run the California Legislature won’t reach an agreement over
his  plan  to curb public-employee pension costs before lawmakers
break for vacation, according to a Brown spokesman.  Last year, the Democratic governor proposed pushing state
workers into a hybrid system combining elements of 401(k)-style
savings plans commonly used by businesses with traditional
defined-benefit pensions. Brown, 74, also wants to raise the
 retirement age  to 67 from 55 for most employees and to ban
practices known as pension spiking and double dipping.  Democrats in the Legislature have resisted some of the
changes. Lawmakers are set to begin a monthlong break July 6.
Brown wants to sign a pension measure soon so he can use it in
his pitch to voters for his initiative to raise income and sales
taxes temporarily with a ballot measure in November. If the
proposal is rejected, it would trigger $6 billion in cuts.  “The governor could not agree to some of the changes in
the pension counterproposal shared by the Legislature,”  Gil Duran , a Brown spokesman, said today in a statement. “These
complex issues cannot be resolved in two days and he has asked
the Legislature to continue to work with him over the recess to
resolve the substantial differences.”  Rising retiree obligations are straining the budgets of
states and cities across the U.S., where leaders are still
coping with the revenue effects of the longest recession since
the Great Depression. A weak recovery has churned up a backlash
against public-worker pay and benefits nationwide as taxpayers’
job prospects wilt and retirement nest-eggs shrink.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  