-- California Controller Appeals Ruling Over Lawmakers’ Pay
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t   a n d   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2012-07-03T02:10:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/california-controller-appeals-ruling-over-lawmakers-pay-1-.html
California Controller John Chiang
appealed a judge’s decision that he overstepped his
constitutional authority by withholding lawmakers’ pay in a
budget dispute last year.  California Attorney General  Kamala Harris , representing
Chiang, filed a notice of appeal today of the April 25 ruling
from state judge  David Brown  in  Sacramento .  Chiang docked the pay of the entire legislature last year,
concluding an $86.6 billion general-fund spending plan it had
passed on time was incomplete and built on faulty assumptions.
He said he was acting under Proposition 25, passed by voters in
2010, which bars lawmakers from getting paid if they fail to
pass a balanced budget on time.  The ruling “flies in the face of the voters’ will to hold
lawmakers accountable for late, unbalanced budgets by docking
their pay when they miss the constitutional deadline,” Hallye
Jordan, a spokeswoman for Chiang, said by e-mail.  State Assembly Speaker John Perez and Senate President Pro
Tem Darrell Steinberg, both Democrats, sued Chiang in January,
asking a judge to rule whether the elected controller can impose
his judgment on whether a budget is balanced.  “We believe the judge’s ruling was very clear that this is
fundamentally a question of the appropriate separation of powers
with respect to the Legislature’s constitutional responsibility
to pass the state budget, and are confident that our position
will be affirmed by any future court decisions,” John Vigna, a
spokesman for Perez, said in an e-mailed statement.  Mark Hedlund, a spokesman for Steinberg, said there was
“no ambiguity” in Brown’s ruling that Chiang overstepped his
constitutional authority. “We are confident the court’s ruling
will stand,” he said.  The case is Steinberg v. Chiang, 2012-00117584, California
Superior Court (Sacramento).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net ;
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento, California, at 
Or  mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  