-- Canada Dollar Rises as Crude Oil Climbs Amid Rate Views
-- B y   L i n d s e y   R u p p
-- 2012-07-03T21:19:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/canada-dollar-rises-as-crude-oil-climbs-amid-rate-views.html
The Canadian dollar touched a six-
week high against its U.S. counterpart as oil, the nation’s
largest export, climbed amid speculation central banks in  Europe 
and  China  may add monetary stimulus.  The loonie, as the currency is nicknamed, rallied versus
most of its 16 major peers as the  European Central Bank  is
forecast to cut interest rates this week. A state-owned
newspaper in China said the time is ripe for a reduction in
banks’ reserve-requirement ratios, which would indicate monetary
stimulus. Stocks rallied, indicating increased demand for
riskier assets.  “Commodity currencies have been buoyed by expectations
central banks around the globe will offer some stimulus measures
to prop up growth after we’ve seen a run of disappointing
numbers to begin the week,” said Joe Manimbo, a market analyst
in Washington at Western Union Business Solutions, a unit of
 Western Union Co. (WU)   Canada’s currency gained 0.5 percent C$1.0122 per U.S.
dollar at 5:01 p.m. in Toronto, after touching the strongest
level since May 17. One Canadian dollar buys 98.79 U.S cents.  Crude oil climbed as much as 5.1 percent to $88.04 a barrel
in  New York . The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 0.6 percent.  Bonds Decline  Government bonds  were little changed with the yield on the
nation’s 10-year benchmark bonds trading at 1.74 percent. It
reached a record low of 1.615 percent on June 1. The 2.75
percent securities maturing in June 2022 fell five cents to
C$109.15.  The  Bank of Canada  is scheduled to release details Thursday
on a five-year note auction on July 11.  Canada ’s jobless rate is forecast to stay unchanged from
May at 7.3 percent, according to a Bloomberg survey of
economists before Statistics Canada agency release data July 6.
The country is expected to have added 5,000 jobs in June,
compared with a gain of 7,700 the month before.  A U.S. government report this week is projected to show
employers added fewer than 100,000 workers for a third month in
June. U.S. payrolls added 90,000 workers last month after a
69,000 gain in May, a Bloomberg survey showed before the Labor
Department data on July 6.  “It’s a function of how much the numbers come in above or
below expectations,” said  Shane Enright , as executive director
in Toronto at Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce’s CIBC World
Markets unit.. “I would imagine you’d see a little bit of a
correction here if the Canadian and U.S. numbers came in on the
softer side.”  Risk Demand  Canada’s dollar rose along with other risk-sensitive
currencies, tracking the 17-nation euro higher, as European
Union PresidentHerman Van Rompuy said leaders meeting in
Brussels June 28-29 agreed to drop the condition that emergency
loans to Spanish banks give creditor governments preferred
status.  “The Canadian dollar benefited from the EU announcement
last week when it appeared that some concrete action is going to
be taken with respect to the European banks,” said Blake Jespersen, managing director of foreign exchange in Toronto at
 Bank of Montreal. (BMO)  “I think it’s a good start and certainly the
market has embraced that initial announcement, but I think
there’s a lot more work to be done, so I would not be surprised
if there’s some speed bumps along the way.”  ECB officials will lower their  main interest rate  by a
quarter percentage point to a record 0.75 percent on July 5, a
Bloomberg News survey of economists shows. EU leaders are
looking to the central bank to help stimulate economic growth
after they amended bailout rules and moved toward a banking
union.  The loonie has gained 1.3 percent this year among 10
developed-nation currencies in Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Indexes, with the  U.S. dollar  adding 0.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsey Rupp in New York at 
 lrupp2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  