-- Cemex Rating May Be Lowered by S&P on Refinancing Risk
-- B y   B r e n d a n   C a s e
-- 2012-07-03T23:19:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/cemex-rating-may-be-lowered-by-s-p-on-refinancing-risk.html
Cemex SAB (CEMEXCPO) , the largest cement maker
in the Americas, may have its  credit rating  cut by  Standard &
Poor’s , which said the company’s recently announced refinancing
proposal “could result in higher short-term risk.”  The company, based in Monterrey,  Mexico , proposed last week
to refinance $7.3 billion in bank debt, including a three-year
extension on debt due in 2014 and an initial $1 billion payment
to lenders by March 31, 2013.  “The proposed payment in 2013 could add significant short-
term risks to the company as it is mostly dependent on the
completion of asset sales, because discretionary  cash flow  that
we estimate at about $200 million during 2012 would not be
sufficient to meet” the proposed payment, S&P analyst Luis Martinez said in a statement.  The company is seeking to prevent a  financing crunch  in
2014 as a housing slump in the U.S. and a deepening debt crisis
in Europe erode sales. Cemex’s debt is rated B- by S&P, six
levels below investment grade and seven steps lower than
Mexico’s.  “We believe that Cemex is committed to raising the
required resources, but volatile market conditions due to the
euro zone debt crisis make it uncertain if the company can
successfully fulfill it,” S&P said in the statement.  S&P placed Cemex’s debt ratings on CreditWatch with
“negative” implications and said it expects to resolve the
CreditWatch in the next three months.  Jorge Perez , a spokesman for Cemex, declined to comment.  The company said last week it planned to hold talks June 29
and July 2 with all of the involved lenders after discussing the
proposal with banks holding about 50 percent of the outstanding
debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan Case in Mexico City at 
 bcase4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  