-- Chelsea Therapeutics Declines Most in Three Years
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2012-07-03T17:27:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/chelsea-therapeutics-falls-the-most-in-3-years-atlanta-mover.html
Chelsea Therapeutics International
Ltd. (CHTP)  plunged the most in about three years after U.S. regulators
said a new trial may be needed for Northera, a drug for
dizziness and fainting that would be its first marketed product.  Chelsea fell 41 percent to 87 cents at the close in  New
York , for its biggest single-day drop since Sept. 24, 2009. The
shares have declined 83 percent this year. The  Food and Drug
Administration  called research on Northera inadequate, the
 Charlotte , North Carolina-based company said today in a
statement.  The drugmaker in March failed to win FDA approval of the
therapy, which is used to treat drops in  blood pressure  in
people with nervous system disorders. Today, Chelsea said a
follow-up letter from the agency recommended a new trial and
found the existing study was unlikely to provide enough evidence
to enable sales of the medicine.  “The FDA did acknowledge the ‘important need’ for a safe
and effective therapy for these patients and indicated they were
‘anxious to work with us,’” Chief Executive Officer Simon Pedder said in the statement. The company said it was
“evaluating several scenarios” to provide the data the
regulators requested.  The drug, also known as droxidopa, treats a condition known
as neurogenic orthostatic hypotension. It afflicts about 180,000
patients in the U.S. leading to dizziness, light-headedness,
blurred vision and fainting,  Keith Schmidt , sales and marketing
vice president for Chelsea, told analysts on a Nov. 2 conference
call.  An FDA reviewer in February recommended against Northera’s
approval, linking the therapy to a life-threatening neurological
disorder and saying it wasn’t proven to work long term. A panel
of outside advisers voted Feb. 23 in favor of the drug because
few treatments exist for the problem.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in New York at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  