-- China Stocks Rise for Third Day on Policy, Property Speculation
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2012-07-03T07:50:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/china-s-stock-futures-gain-on-monetary-policy-easing-speculation.html
China’s stocks  rose for a third day
as a pick-up in the  property market  helped the nation’s service
industries expand at a faster pace and speculation grew the
government will further ease monetary policy.  China Vanke Co. led a gauge of property developers to the
biggest gain in three weeks, as the China Securities Journal
reported the central bank may make cutting lenders’ reserve
ratios the top choice for increasing liquidity. Liquor maker
 Kweichow Moutai Co. (600519)  rose 5.4 percent after Citigroup Inc.
recommended an overweight allocation on consumer companies. Sany
Heavy Industry Co. paced declines for machinery stocks on
concern the economic slowdown is hurting construction activity.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  added 0.1 percent to 2,229.19
at the close. The  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  rose 0.1 percent to 2,468.72.
The  Bloomberg China-US 55 Index (CH55BN) , the measure of the most-traded
U.S.-listed Chinese companies, lost 0.7 percent yesterday.  “There’s speculation of reserve-ratio cuts again this
month and the government is expected to have more policies to
boost the market,”  Zhang Qi , an analyst at Haitong Securities
Co., said in  Shanghai . “Stocks dropped too much last month so
we are seeing a rebound in July.”  The Shanghai gauge is rebounding from a 6.2 percent plunge
in June that made it  Asia ’s worst performer last month. The
gauge trades at 9.8 times estimated profit, compared with the
average of 17.5 since Bloomberg began compiling the  data  in
2006. The Shanghai index has gained 1.4 percent this year on
speculation the government will loosen monetary policy to
bolster economic growth as inflation slows.  Policy Outlook  Cutting  reserve requirements  may become the top choice for
the People’s Bank of China to increase liquidity in the banking
system, according to a commentary on the front page of the  China 
Securities Journal today. The time is ripe for a cut and
continued reductions would help stabilize the cost of funds and
financial market operations, according to the commentary.  The central bank has cut lenders’ reserve-requirement
ratios three times since November and lowered  interest rates 
last month for the first time since 2008.  China’s June non-manufacturing  Purchasing Managers ’ Index
rose to 56.7 in June from 55.2 in May, the first gain in three
months, according to the National Bureau of Statistics and
Federation of Logistics and Purchasing. A reading above 50
indicates expansion.  The result is among signs that growth in the world’s
second-largest economy may steady after Chinese manufacturing
indicators beat forecasts and leaders stepped up stimulus to
counter a slowdown and maintained property curbs aimed at
lowering  home prices .  Developers Rally  China Vanke, the biggest Chinese developer, gained 1.6
percent to 9.12  yuan . Poly Real Estate Group Co., the second
largest, increased 3.2 percent to 11.97 yuan. A gauge of
 developers  in the Shanghai Composite rose 1.8 percent, the most
among five industry groups and the largest gain since June 12.  The central government may not introduce new measures to
curb the property market as it has already placed priority on
stabilizing the market, the 21st Century Business Herald
reported today, citing Chen Guoqiang, vice chairman of the China
Real Estate Society.  New home prices rose for the first time in 10 months in
June as the government eased its monetary policies to bolster
the economy, SouFun Holdings Ltd., the nation’s biggest real
estate website owner, said yesterday.  Stocks Oversold  China’s stocks appear oversold, as macro and market
indicators are near historical lows, Citigroup said in a report
today. A rebound is likely once “uncertainties” start to
clear, Minggao Shen and Ben Wei, analysts at Citigroup, wrote in
the report. Besides consumer companies, they are overweight
property stocks, utilities, brokerages, insurers, health-care
companies and industrial shares.  Sichuan Swellfun Co., which makes spirits, advanced 2.5
percent to 27.36 yuan. Kweichow Moutai surged 5.4 percent to
254.94 yuan, a record close. Investors should buy shares of
companies such as  consumer-staples producers , whose earnings may
be sheltered from the slowdown, Hao Hong, head of Chinese
research at Bank of Communications Co., said June 28.  Chinese machinery stocks fell as slumping land sales and
the prospect of slowing loan growth signaled less construction
activity. Sany Heavy, China’s biggest machinery maker, tumbled
3.3 percent to 13.40 yuan.  Zoomlion Heavy Industry Science &
Technology Co. (000157) , the second-biggest maker of construction
equipment, slid 3.2 percent to 9.85 yuan.  Loan Outlook  Residential land sales halved in 300 Chinese cities last
month, according to SouFun.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of
China Ltd. , the nation’s largest lender, and its three closest
rivals cut lending to less than 190 billion yuan ($30 billion)
in June, three newspapers reported.  New loans by ICBC, China Construction Bank Corp., Bank of
China Ltd. and Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. decreased to
about 188 billion yuan last month from 250 billion yuan in May,
the  Securities Times  reported today, without citing anyone. The
figure was about 180 billion yuan, the Shanghai Securities News
said, without saying where it got the information.  “Though  China’s economy  has been weaker than we have
expected so far this year, it strengthens our belief that both
central and state governments will take measures to prevent an
even sharper slowdown,” Simon Flood, Singapore-based chief
investment officer at Lion Global Investors Ltd., said in an e-
mailed interview.  China’s yuan-denominated stocks may have more “short-term
catalysts” than Chinese equities listed in  Hong Kong  because of
government measures to limit the oversupply of initial public
offerings, relax regulations for foreign investors and push
state-owned companies to boost dividend payout ratios, he said.  China may get 200 to 250 initial public offerings this
year, raising up to 250 billion yuan, PriceWaterhouseCoopers
said at a briefing in Shanghai today. That compares with 282
IPOs in 2011 that raised 286.1 billion yuan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  