-- China Non-Manufacturing Index Fell in July
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-03T02:53:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/china-non-manufacturing-gauge-shows-faster-expansion-in-june.html
China ’s non-manufacturing industries
expanded at a slower pace in July as new orders and outlooks for
future business slipped, an official survey indicated.  The  purchasing managers ’  index  fell to 55.6 from 56.7 in
June, the National Bureau of Statistics and China Federation of
Logistics and Purchasing said in Beijing today. Readings above
50 indicate expansion.  Today’s report shows the slowdown in China’s exports and
industrial production may be spreading to services, which would
add pressure on Premier  Wen Jiabao  to introduce more measures to
stem the slide. A manufacturing index had the weakest reading in
eight months in July as gauges of overseas orders and output
fell to the lowest levels since November, federation data this
week showed.  “China’s Politburo has decided to boost domestic demand in
the second half of this year by improving people’s spending
power,” Cai Jin, a vice chairman with CFLP, said in a statement
today. “That will help  service industries  maintain stable and
fast growth.” He said the stable growth situation in services
hasn’t changed.  The benchmark  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  dropped 14 percent
from this year’s peak on March 2 through yesterday on concern
the economic slowdown will hurt corporate earnings. The gauge
rose 0.1 percent at 10:37 a.m. after falling to a three-year low
earlier this week.  Stable Development  Leaders of the ruling Communist Party pledged this week to
keep adjusting policies to ensure stable economic development,
describing the external environment as posing “difficulties and
challenges.” At the same time, they said the current pace of
growth is “within expectations” even as expansion slowed to a
three-year low of 7.6 percent in the second quarter.  A separate services industries gauge from HSBC Holdings Plc
and Markit Economics today increased to 53.1 in July from 52.3.  “To secure growth and employment, Beijing still needs to
step up policy easing and fast falling inflation allows them to
do so,”  Qu Hongbin , Hong Kong-based chief China economist for
HSBC, said in a statement today.  Service industries account for about 43 percent of the
economy compared with about 90 percent in the U.S. Under China’s
current five-year plan, the government is seeking to raise the
share of services in gross domestic product to 47 percent by
2015, the official Xinhua News Agency said in May.  The federation’s manufacturing Purchasing Managers’ Index
released on Aug. 1 unexpectedly fell to 50.1 in July, with three
of 24 economists surveyed forecasting a decline from June. A
separate survey from HSBC and Markit indicated manufacturing
contracted for a ninth month, albeit at a slower pace than in
June.  The official non-manufacturing PMI is based on a survey of
about 1,200 companies covering 27 industries including
construction, transport and telecommunications. The federation
and statistics bureau started publishing a seasonally adjusted
index for the non-manufacturing PMI from the March survey, and
revised readings back to March 2011.  --Nerys Avery. With assistance from Zhou Xin and Regina Tan in
Beijing. Editors: Scott Lanman, Nathaniel Espino  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nerys Avery in Beijing at 
 Navery2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  