-- China Slowdown Cuts Luxury Spending, Hong Kong Retailing
-- B y   J u s t i n a   L e e
-- 2012-07-04T04:50:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/china-slowdown-cuts-luxury-spending-hong-kong-retailing.html
China’s slowdown dragged Hong Kong’s
 retail-sales  growth to the weakest pace since 2009 as shoppers
visiting from the mainland cut back on purchases of  luxury goods 
such as jewelry and watches.  Sales increased 8.8 percent in May from a year earlier to
HK$36 billion ($4.6 billion), the government said yesterday.
That was the smallest gain since September 2009, excluding
seasonal distortions each January and February.  The deceleration of  Asia ’s biggest economy is rippling
through Hong Kong, which had record retail-sales gains as
recently as last year. In neighboring Macau, a center for
Chinese gamblers, a report this week showed that casino revenue
was below estimates in June, clouding the outlook for companies
including Sands China Ltd.  “The consumption appetite of mainland visitors has dropped
compared with last year because of the economic slowdown,” said
Raymond Yeung, a Hong Kong-based economist at  Australia  and New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd. The data are a “warning sign for
 Hong Kong  retailers.”  The increase in retail sales compared with an 11.4 percent
gain in April and the median 9.4 percent estimate in a Bloomberg
News survey of seven economists.  Asian stocks rose today on speculation central banks will
do more to support global economic growth, with the  European
Central Bank  forecast to cut interest rates tomorrow. The MSCI
Asia Pacific Index rose 0.5 percent as of 1:44 p.m. in  Tokyo . In
Hong Kong, Sands China was down 1.6 percent.  ‘Spending Less’  Zhu Caijuan, 38, is among Chinese visitors who say they’ve
curbed their spending in Hong Kong. A slowdown in homebuilding
has affected her family’s construction business and she’s
“definitely spending less,” Zhu, who’s from Hangzhou in
Zhejiang province, said at the Harbour City shopping complex in
Tsim Sha Tsui yesterday.  At the same time, the strength of the  yuan  and Hong Kong’s
lower tax rates mean that cosmetics and handbags remain
attractive, Zhu said, calculating that her family group had
spent HK$100,000 in two days.  Visitor arrivals from China slipped to 2.5 million in May
from 2.6 million in the previous month, according to the Hong
Kong Tourism Board.  “It’s just simple logic that if you have less tourists
coming in to buy gold, to buy diamonds, then you would see quite
a significantly bad retail-sales figure,” said Lily Lo, a Hong
Kong-based economist at DBS Group Holdings Ltd.  Casino Business  In Macau, gaming revenue rose 12 percent in June from a
year earlier, compared with a 52 percent gain in the same month
in 2011, according to data from the Gaming Inspection and
Coordination Bureau. The latest number was less than estimates
from analysts at Citigroup Inc., Nomura Holdings Inc., Bank of
America Corp. and Deutsche Bank AG.  China ’s government is trying to limit official spending on
some luxuries. A ban on consuming shark fin at government
expense may take full effect within three years, according to
state media reports this week.  In China, retail sales grew 13.8 percent in May, the
smallest increase since 2006 excluding seasonal distortions and
partly a reflection of waning inflation.  Companies including Nike Inc. have reported a slowdown as
the nation’s gross domestic product rose 8.1 percent, the least
in almost three years, in the first quarter.  China’s services industries grew at the weakest pace in 10
months in June, according to an index released today by HSBC
Holdings Plc and Markit Economics. Similar gauges are due today
for places including India, Germany and  Russia .  Jewelry Sales  In Hong Kong, sales of jewelry, watches and clocks rose 3.1
percent in May from a year earlier, the government said. That
compared with an increase of 61 percent in the same month in
2011, previously-released data show.  Caroline Mak, chairwoman of the Hong Kong Retail Management
Association, said retailers have been offering discounts of as
much as 50 percent this summer and slow sales of goods such as
furniture indicate weakness in local residents’ consumption, too.
Sales growth may be “yet to hit bottom,” Mak said.  Hong Kong’s government has indicated that an economic
growth forecast of 1 percent to 3 percent for this year may be
cut as export demand weakens. Chief Executive Leung Chun-ying,
who started his five-year term on July 1, needs to sustain the
city’s economic expansion to help fulfill his pledges to aid the
poor.  Less Optimism  Mainland shoppers “are not splashing out as much,” Wong Wai Sheung, chief executive officer of Hong Kong-listed jewelry
retailer Luk Fook Holdings (International) Ltd., said at a
briefing on June 28. “I’m not too optimistic about the jewelry
market this year.” Luk Fook’s shares have fallen about 38
percent this year, compared with a 7 percent gain for the
benchmark  Hang Seng Index .  Tourists from the mainland have dropped their
“exaggerated” spending habits, said Alan Chun, manager of the
Gaily Jewellery Co. Ltd. store on Queens Road, Central.  “There aren’t big purchases anymore,” said Chun,
referring to diamond and jade products that sell for between
HK$100,000 and HK$1 million. “There are still regular ones --
jewelry priced around HK$30,000 that people buy just for fun.”  The comments from Hong Kong retailers interviewed yesterday
contrasted with the confidence of Prada SpA, the Italian fashion
company and maker of $2,950 perforated patent-leather handbags,
that Chinese demand for its luxury goods will be sustained. The
company’s first-quarter profit more than doubled.  Elsewhere in the Asia Pacific region today, Australia
reported an increase in retail sales.  Malaysia ’s exports
rebounded, growing more than economists estimated in May after
falling for two months, giving the central bank scope to keep
 interest rates  unchanged.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Justina Lee in Hong Kong at 
 jlee1245@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hwee Ann Tan at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net  