-- GM, Chrysler Sees June U.S. Auto Sales Beating Estimates
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2012-07-03T20:18:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/chrysler-u-s-sales-beat-estimates-as-industry-pace-slows.html
General Motors Co. (GM) , Ford Motor Co.
and Chrysler Group LLC reported U.S. auto sales for June that
topped analysts’ estimates, helping the industry surpass
projections and stay on pace for the best year since 2007.  U.S. auto sales accelerated to a 14.1 million seasonally
adjusted annualized  rate , researcher Autodata Corp. said in an
e-mailed statement. The pace topped the 13.8 million light-
vehicle rate that was the average estimate of 15 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Auto-industry  sales provide a bright spot in the  U.S.
economy  that has been hindered by persistent unemployment and
weakening  consumer confidence . Analysts under-estimated demand
for most automakers’ vehicles after May sales came in lower than
projected. Higher sales to fleet customers bolstered sales in
June as did holiday promotions that attracted consumers.  “A lot of analysts -- ourselves included -- were cautious
going into June with the  unemployment rate  inching up, consumer
confidence dropping and the volatility going on in Europe,”
Alec Gutierrez, an analyst at Kelley  Blue Book  in Irvine,
California, said in a telephone interview. “It’s just a
testament to the strength of consumer demand for new vehicles
despite all the negative news out there.”  GM sales climbed 16 percent last month, beating the 7.6
percent increase that was the average estimate of 11 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. Deliveries rose 20 percent for Chrysler
and 7.1 percent for Ford, topping analysts’ average estimates
for gains of 18 percent and 3.7 percent, respectively.  Nissan
Motor Co. (7201)  sales rose 28 percent, exceeding the 21 percent
average estimate.  Economic Disconnect  The U.S. auto industry has zoomed back since 2009 when GM
and Chrysler restructured in government-backed bankruptcies,
threatening the viability of suppliers and thousands of jobs.
Light-vehicle sales this year may reach 14.3 million, the
average of 16 analysts’ estimates, which would be 38 percent
more than the 10.4 million total in 2009.  “There’s a little bit of disconnect between what we’re
seeing in the economy and what we’re seeing in the auto
industry,”  Rebecca Lindland , an analyst at IHS Automotive, said
in a telephone interview. “For the average consumer in middle
America, they don’t really care what the euro is doing. If they
need a car, they’re not thinking whether Greece is going to exit
the  euro zone  from their Chevy dealership.”  Toyota, Honda  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and Honda Motor Co. led the industry
with June sales gains of 60 percent and 49 percent,
respectively. The Japan-based automakers missed eight analysts’
average estimate for increases of 66 percent and 51 percent.  Marketing campaigns tied to tomorrow’s U.S. Independence
Day holiday helped boost sales in the last week of the month,
said  Ken Czubay ,  Ford (F) ’s U.S. sales chief.  “We definitely saw an improvement in the last seven,
eight, nine days,” Czubay said today on a conference call.
“It’s always been a good time to buy around the Fourth of July.
I think ourselves and our competitors came out, causing a good
stir in the marketplace.” Incentive spending was down slightly
from May, he said, adding that new models helped attract buyers.  Ford said sales of the Escape sport-utility vehicle climbed
28 percent to 28,500, while deliveries of the Fusion sedan rose
17 percent to 24,433, according to a statement. Deliveries of
the Malibu sedan, which GM redesigned earlier this year,
increased 32 percent to 31,402, the Detroit-based company said
in a statement.  GM rose 5.6 percent, the biggest gain since Feb. 16, to
$20.67 at the close. Ford advanced 2.2 percent to $9.60.  GM Pickups  GM said inventory of its full-size pickups, which will be
refreshed next year, climbed to 238,194 at the end of June, a
135 days supply, up from 116 days at the end of May.  “They’re likely going to have a relatively high days
supply of trucks moving forward and they’re already placing some
pretty aggressive cash incentives on the hood,” Kelley Blue
Book’s Gutierrez said. “It’s going to eat into their profit
margins, but if you have to place a $3,000 or $5,000 incentive
in their portfolio, you want it to be on full-size pickups,
because those have the highest margin overall.”  Analysts at Citigroup Inc. and Deutsche Bank AG lowered
estimates for auto demand in 2013 by 500,000 car and light-truck
sales after May’s sales results. Citigroup’s Itay Michaeli
lowered his outlook to 14.5 million sales, from 15 million.
Deutsche Bank’s  Rod Lache  cut his estimate to 14.2 million, from
14.7 million.  Analysts ‘Overreact’  Analysts “tend to overreact to change in both
directions,” said Alan Baum, principal of Baum & Associates in
West Bloomfield, Michigan, who estimated a 14 million industry
sales pace for June. “The overall trends affecting car buyers
have been pretty consistent. I just don’t see changes in
underlying numbers to say ‘Oh my, last month was bad, things are
just falling apart.”’  Chrysler deliveries climbed to 144,811 cars and light
trucks from 120,394 a year earlier. The Auburn Hills, Michigan-
based company controlled by  Fiat SpA (F)   set records  for the Fiat
500 small car and Jeep Wrangler sport-utility vehicle in June.
Sales of the 500 more than doubled to 4,004 and sales of the
Wrangler surged 28 percent to 14,461.  Hyundai, Kia  South Korean automakers  Hyundai (005380)  Motor Co. and  Kia (000270)  Motors
Corp. joined Chrysler in reporting smaller June sales gains than
they recorded earlier this year. Hyundai and Kia combined to
sell 10 percent more vehicles in June than a year earlier,
exceeding the 9.8 percent increase that was the average of six
analysts’ estimates.  Chrysler deliveries climbed 33 percent through the first
five months of the year, according to Woodcliff Lake, New
Jersey-based Autodata. Hyundai and Kia, both based in Seoul,
combined to increase sales by 14 percent this year through May,
said the researcher.  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , on pace to exceed its target for selling
more than 500,000 vehicles in the U.S. this year, increased
combined sales of its Volkswagen and Audi brand vehicles by 32
percent in June, beating the 28 percent gain that was the
average estimate of four analysts. The company delivered 10,252
Passat and 2,914 Beetle cars after registering just two sales
for each of the models a year earlier.  Confidence among U.S. consumers dropped for a fourth month
to  62 for June , the lowest since January, the Conference Board’s
index showed June 26. Labor Department figures this week may
show employers increased payrolls by 90,000 workers last month,
the median forecast of 59 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News,
completing the weakest quarter for employment in two years.  ‘Conflicting’ Data  “There is a lot of conflicting economic data out there --
consumer sentiment somewhat negative, jobs somewhat negative --
however we are seeing some decent results in housing, fuel
prices are down and the availability of  consumer credit  is
positive,” Kurt McNeil, U.S. vice president of sales
operations, said today on GM’s conference call. “We still see
headwinds but at the end of the day we’re calling for moderate,
gradual economic growth.”  A 22 percent rise in June light-vehicle deliveries to 1.29
million vehicles, which topped 10 analysts’ average estimate of
1.27 million, was skewed by comparisons with year-earlier
vehicle shortages for Toyota and Honda, which lost production
after Japan’s March 2011 earthquake and tsunami. The June 2011
sales rate was 11.6 million, according to Autodata.  “Economic fundamentals have remained on the soft side as
compared to the first quarter,” Ellen Hughes-Cromwick, Ford’s
chief economist, said today on the company’s conference call.
“Job growth has really been tepid.”  Fleet Deliveries  GM sales to fleet customers, such as governments and
rental-car companies, rose 36 percent last month, making up 32
percent of the company’s sales. Ford said its fleet sales
accounted for 35 percent of its deliveries, down from 37 percent
a year earlier.  Chrysler dealers took first deliveries in June of the Dodge
Dart compact sedan, which Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne  has called the most important new model introduction
to the company since Fiat took control in 2009. The company sold
202 Darts in June, according to its statement.  “We’re still in the ramp-up stage on the Dart and 60 days
away from really hitting the groove,”  Reid Bigland , Chrysler’s
head of U.S. sales, said June 28. “The Dart fills objectively
the biggest hole in our product portfolio.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  