-- Citigroup Investor Chief Andrews to Take New Content Post
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2012-07-03T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/citigroup-investor-chief-andrews-to-take-new-content-post.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-biggest
U.S. bank by assets, moved investor-relations chief John Andrews
to a new position where he will deliver market information and
“rapid insight” to the firm’s top clients.  Andrews, 48, will be head of “institutional client-content
development and marketing in global markets,” working with
different teams, according to an internal memo obtained by
Bloomberg News. Danielle Romero-Apsilos, a spokeswoman for New
York-based Citigroup, confirmed the memo’s authenticity.  Chief Executive Officer Vikram Pandit, 55, created the post
for Andrews, who has managed Citigroup’s relationships with
shareholders since March 2009. The stock had gained 8.5 percent
since the end of that month through yesterday, compared with a
64 percent gain for the  KBW Bank Index (BKX)  of 24 U.S. lenders.  “John will harness Citi’s internal resources to structure
and deliver timely, bespoke content on critical strategic trends
and market-moving events to our most important institutional
clients,” Chief Financial Officer  John Gerspach  and Jim O’Donnell, head of sales and relationship management, said in
the memo. “He will create a formal structure to harness Citi’s
corporate-wide internal experts and deliver rapid insight around
market-moving events.”  Andrews will begin his new job after Citigroup announces
second-quarter results this month, Gerspach and O’Donnell said
in the memo. Susan Kendall will be interim head of investor
relations until a replacement is found, according to the memo.  Andrews joined Citigroup after the firm received a $45
billion U.S. bailout, which the bank has repaid. He previously
headed investor relations at Citadel LLC, the hedge fund run by
Ken Griffin, and also worked for Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and
 Morgan Stanley (MS) , according to the memo.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 