-- Clinton’s ’Sorry’ Helps Reopen Pakistan Supply Routes
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m   a n d   K h u r r u m   A n i s
-- 2012-07-04T06:25:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/clinton-says-nato-supply-routes-through-pakistan-reopening-1-.html
U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton’s statement that “we are sorry” about a deadly border
clash led to  Pakistan  reopening military supply routes and
resolved one contentious issue between the two nations.  The U.S. relationship with Pakistan has been battered by a
series of disputes as the Obama administration plans its exit
from the 11-year war in neighboring Afghanistan. Pakistani
officials chose to accept Clinton’s comments as the apology they
had demanded, leading to the supply-lines deal that was the
first evidence of headway in months on issues that have held up
more than $1 billion in U.S. funding for Pakistan.  While military supplies may begin moving to coalition
forces in Afghanistan this week, tensions persist. The U.S.
wants Pakistan to crack down on Haqqani Network extremists, who
launch attacks on coalition forces in  Afghanistan  from Pakistani
havens, and the Pakistan government wants the U.S. to end CIA
drone strikes aimed a terrorists within its territory.  Resolving the supply-routes dispute “was one of the
easiest tasks,” Shuja Nawaz, director of South Asia Center at
the Atlantic Council, a policy-research group in Washington,
said in an interview. There are so many remaining issues “that
I don’t expect there to be sweetness and light in this
relationship for quite a while,” he said.  Progress may unravel with the next “massive drone strike
or a U.S. raid into Pakistan to get a high-value target or a
successful strike by Haqqanis inside Afghanistan,” Nawaz said.  Reopening Transit  Pakistan said yesterday it would reopen supply routes to
transport non-lethal material and supplies to coalition forces,
as well as weapons for the Afghan military. The transit route
had been shut since November, after a U.S. military strike
mistakenly killed 24 Pakistani troops and the country’s
officials demanded an apology.  While Clinton didn’t use the word “apologize,” Qamar Zaman Kaira, Pakistan’s information minister said in Islamabad
that the routes are being reopened after the U.S. was forced
“to apologize to the Pakistani people and its nation. If we go
into the nitty-gritty of her words, then people will take it one
way or another,” he said.  A Pentagon investigation found in December that U.S. forces
raiding an Afghan village near the border took heavy machine-gun
fire from inside Pakistan and thought it came from insurgents
because the U.S. ground commander had been told there were no
Pakistani troops in the area. Return fire from U.S. helicopters
killed the 24 Pakistani troops.  ‘Deepest Regrets’  Clinton said in a statement that she offered “deepest
regrets” over the accidental killings during a conversation
yesterday with Pakistan’s Foreign Minister Hina Rabbani Khar.  “Foreign Minister Khar and I acknowledged the mistakes
that resulted in the loss of Pakistani military lives,” Clinton
said yesterday. “We are sorry for the losses suffered by the
Pakistani military. We are committed to working closely with
Pakistan and Afghanistan to prevent this from ever happening
again.”  Pakistani officials also demanded that the U.S. vacate the
Shamsi air base, which had been used by the CIA to carry out
drone strikes in Pakistan’s tribal areas.  Clinton didn’t discuss in her statement the use of drones,
which the Obama administration has called an invaluable tool in
combating terrorists, and Kaira said only that Pakistan will
seek to persuade the U.S. to end drone attacks as counter-
productive. Pakistan has said the attacks sometimes kill
civilians and fuel public anger toward the U.S. and the
Pakistani government.  Pakistan’s Help  The U.S. seeks Pakistan’s cooperation in halting cross-
border attacks, allowing the transport of coalition supplies,
and at least tacitly accepting drone strikes on terrorist
targets in Pakistan such as the one in June that killed al-
Qaeda’s second-in-command.  Pakistan’s Defense Committee of the Cabinet agreed to
reopen the transit routes to help the U.S. and NATO reduce their
cost of drawing down forces from Afghanistan as well as to aid
in the reconciliation process in Afghanistan, according to a
statement from Pakistan’s embassy in  Washington .  The closing of the supply routes forced the U.S. and the
North Atlantic Treaty Organization to send material and
equipment from the north, through Central Asia, at an added cost
that Defense Secretary Leon Panetta has estimated at about $100
million a month.  China Incident  “Some of the trucks are already loaded and waiting,” said
Mustakil Afridi, chairman of the Pakistan Combined Trucks &
Trailers Welfare Association. “If the government gives
us permission today, we would need 4 to 5 days to cross the
border and about the same time to reach Kabul.”  Clinton’s statement yesterday was similar to the wording
the U.S. offered  China  in the wake of a 2001 incident when a
U.S. spy plane collided with a Chinese jet fighter, Nawaz said.  In that case, two Chinese jets intercepted a U.S. Navy EP-3
spy plane just off the coast of  Hainan , an island in the  South
China Sea . One of the Chinese jets crashed and its pilot died.
The U.S. aircraft, which landed on Hainan, and its crew of 24
were detained by the Chinese for 11 days until the U.S.
ambassador said the U.S. was “very sorry” for the the loss of
the pilot and unauthorized landing of the American aircraft.  Asked yesterday if the U.S. agreed to pay more than
previously for use of the Pakistan supply routes, State
Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland  said, “We are paying the
exact same amount as we were paying before.”  Transit Costs  The U.S. will pay about $250 per container as a basic
operational cost, Nadeem Hotiana, a spokesman for Pakistan’s
embassy in Washington said in an e-mail. That is the same as the
U.S paid before the routes were shut and Pakistan wouldn’t
charge any additional transit fees, he said.  Senate Armed Services Committee Chairman Senator  Carl Levin , a Michigan Democrat, said in an interview in June that
Pakistan had been demanding the U.S. pay as much as $5,000 per
container of NATO supplies shipped over its routes, up from
about $250 each before the routes were reopened.  In addition, the reopening of supply routes may free up as
much as $1.2 billion in coalition support funds for Pakistan
from fiscal year 2011 that the U.S. has withheld.  “Pakistan does not want to isolate itself,” Mutaher
Ahmed, a professor of international relations at the University
of Karachi, said in a telephone interview yesterday. “Damage
control came late, but now this will help Pakistan repair ties
with other countries, especially the  United States .”  Political Risks  For the Pakistan government of newly installed Prime
Minister Raja Pervez Ashraf, which faces parliamentary elections
by early next year, agreeing to allow the NATO trucks to once
more roll across the frontier carries political risks. A June 27
survey of attitudes by the Pew Research Center found that 74
percent of Pakistanis considered the U.S. to be an enemy, up
from 69 percent in 2011.  Panetta, who said last month that the U.S. was losing
patience with Pakistan, yesterday welcomed its decision to
reopen the routes.  “As I have made clear, we remain committed to improving
our partnership with Pakistan and to working closely together as
our two nations confront common security challenges in the
region,” Panetta said.  U.S.-led coalition troops in Afghanistan are aiming to
weaken the Taliban insurgent movement before handing over
security responsibilities to Afghan forces ahead of a withdrawal
from the country in 2014. In the past three months, the Taliban
have attacked government office buildings, including the
parliament, the U.S., German and British embassies and the
offices of two provincial governors.  U.S. and Afghan officials have blamed a number of the
strikes on the Haqqani network, a militant group based in
Pakistan and affiliated with the Taliban.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net ;
Khurrum Anis in Karachi at 
 kkhan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  