-- Cravath, Weil, Kirkland, Skadden, Sullivan: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-07-03T11:31:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/cravath-weil-kirkland-skadden-sullivan-business-of-law.html
Linde AG (LIN)  agreed to acquire  Lincare
Holdings Inc. (LNCR)  for about $3.8 billion to add U.S. oxygen and
respiratory therapy services delivered to the home, in the
German company’s biggest acquisition since 2006.  Cravath Swaine & Moore LLP and Morgan Stanley acted as
legal and financial advisers to Linde. Weil, Gotshal & Manges
LLP and JP Morgan Chase & Co. acted as legal and financial
advisers to Lincare.  Cravath’s corporate partners on the deal are Richard Hall
and Mark I. Greene, with Michael L. Schler on tax.  Weil’s team was spearheaded by chairman of the firm’s
corporate department and co-head of the firm’s  New York  private
equity and mergers and acquisitions practice, Michael Aiello. It
also included tax partner Ken Heitner; environmental partner
Annemargaret Connolly; IP partner Michael Epstein; antitrust
partner John Scribner; and benefits partner Michael Kam.  Linde will pay $41.50 a share for Lincare, using a loan and
a share sale of as much as 1.5 billion euros ($1.9 billion), the
Munich-based industrial-gas supplier said. That’s 64 percent
more than the price on June 26, before a media report on talks
between the companies. Linde shares fell as much as 5 percent in
Frankfurt trading.  Chief Executive Officer Wolfgang Reitzle has made health
care a growth area and agreed to buy  Air Products & Chemicals
Inc. (APD) ’s home-care business in January. The Lincare purchase
reunites two business linked a century ago and will double
Linde’s North American gases sales. Reitzle said he tracked
Lincare as a potential target for five years and was aware of
rival interest. In the end, negotiations were speedy, he said.  Based on estimates for 2012, Linde is paying 8.93 times
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
compared with a median of 8.4 times, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. It’s unlikely to recover its cost of capital
before 2015,  Bank of America  Merrill Lynch analyst Laurent Favre
said.  The total price is $4.6 billion including about $800
million in assumed debt, said Matthias Dachwald, a spokesman for
Linde. The transaction will be paid for mainly with a $4.5
billion loan that will be refinanced through debt and equity
issuances, with expected completion in the fiscal third quarter.  For more, click here.  Bristol-Myers to Buy Diabetes Drugmaker Amylin for $5.3 Billion  Kirkland & Ellis LLP advised  Bristol-Myers (BMY)  Squibb Co. on
the $5.3 billion acquisition of  Amylin Pharmaceuticals Inc. (AMLN) 
Skadden Arps Slate Meagher & Flom LLP advised Amylin.  The Kirkland team included New York-based corporate
partners David Fox, Daniel Wolf, Joshua Zachariah and David B.
Feirstein.  Skadden’s New York mergers and acquisition partners
included: Nancy Lieberman and Ann Beth Stebbins.  The purchase comes a month after Bristol’s top seller, the
blood-thinner Plavix with $7.1 billion in sales last year, began
facing generic competition. In 2013, the New York-based company
loses patent protection on its $1.6 billion HIV drug, Sustiva.  Under the agreement announced June 29, Bristol-Myers will
pay $31 a share in cash, a 10 percent premium to the June 29
closing price for San Diego-based Amylin. At the same time,
 AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) , based in  London , will pay Bristol $3.4 billion
to help develop Amylin’s drug portfolio, the companies said.  AstraZeneca, Paris-based  Sanofi (SAN)  and  Merck & Co. (MRK) , of
 Whitehouse Station ,  New Jersey , also made offers during a
bidding process, people with knowledge of the process had said.  Revenue at Amylin surpassed $650 million last year and may
rise about 5 percent in 2012, according to analysts’  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg. The company may  generate  as much as $1.5
billion in annual sales from Byetta and Bydureon,  Phil Nadeau , a
Cowen & Co. analyst in New York, wrote this year.  For Bristol, the purchase is the largest of 19 since 2007,
when it began a so-called string of pearls acquisition strategy
designed to revitalize the company in the face of patent losses
and produce a more diverse stable of products.  Bristol-Myers’s own experimental diabetes product,
dapagliflozin, also called Forxiga, failed to win U.S. marketing
approval in January, when the  Food and Drug Administration  asked
for more data to assess risks and benefits for the treatment,
being developed with AstraZeneca. It’s awaiting approval in
Europe, and may be cleared later in the U.S.  The boards of Bristol-Myers and Amylin endorsed the deal,
according to the statement. Including Amylin’s debt and a
payment owed to  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY)  of about $1.7 billion, the deal
is valued at about $7 billion.  For more, click here.  GE Sells Property Lending Unit to EverBank for $2.51 Billion  General Electric Co. (GE)  agreed to sell Business Property
Lending Inc., a unit of its  GE Capital  Corp. division, to
 EverBank Financial Corp. (EVER)  for $2.51 billion in cash.  Weil Gotshal & Manges LLP advised GE, while Sullivan &
Cromwell LLP represented EverBank Financial Corp.  Weil partners included: Jon-Paul Bernard, mergers and
acquisitions, and Kenneth Heitner, tax, Chayim Neubort, tax,
Michael Kam, benefits, Annemargaret Connolly, environmental,
John Dedyo, structured finance, and Heath Tarbert, bank
regulatory.  The S&C New York-based team included financial institutions
partners Mark Menting and C. Andrew Gerlach along with executive
compensation and benefits partner Matthew Friestedt.  The  deal  includes $2.44 billion in performing commercial
real estate debt and servicing rights on $3.1 billion of loans
securitized by GE Capital, the companies said yesterday in a
statement. The transaction is expected to close next quarter,
pending regulatory approval, EverBank said.  Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Immelt  is exiting some
businesses tied to real estate as he shrinks the size of GE
Capital’s balance sheet after $32 billion of credit losses
during the financial crisis.  Stamford , Connecticut-based GE
Capital sold its Irish mortgage unit last month to Pepper Home
Loans Group,  Australia ’s largest non-bank mortgage lender.  GE curbed Business Property Lending’s originations as
credit markets froze after Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s 2008
collapse, according to a  presentation  on EverBank’s website. New
loans fell 97 percent to $43 million in 2009, and are on pace in
2012 for $317 million, the Jacksonville, Florida-based bank
said.  EverBank, which had its initial public offering on May 2,
said the acquisition would immediately provide a “low double-
digit” boost to earnings per share.  For more, click here.  Dell Agrees to Buy Quest for $2.4 Billion, Gaining Software  Dell Inc. (DELL)  agreed to buy  Quest Software  Inc., a maker of
programs to manage corporate computer systems, for $28 a share,
ending a bidding contest with Insight Venture Partners.  The acquisition is worth $2.4 billion, net of cash and
debt, the  Round Rock , Texas-based company said in a joint
statement yesterday with Quest. The transaction is expected to
close in Dell’s fiscal third quarter.  Skadden Arps Slate Meagher & Flom LLP is representing Dell
Inc. Quest was represented by Cadwalader Wickersham & Taft LLP,
Latham & Watkins LLP and Potter Anderson & Corroon LLP.  Skadden lawyers on the deal include New York mergers-and-
acquisitions partner Allison Schneirov and  Palo Alto ,
 California , mergers and acquisitions partner Kenton King.  Dell’s in-house team includes Larry Tu, Janet Wright, Mark
Mouritsen, Kim Erlanson and Robert Potts, Skadden said in a
statement.  Cadwalader’s team included corporate partners Ron Hopkinson
and William P. Mills and tax partner Linda Swartz.  Latham’s team was led by Orange County corporate partners
Charles Ruck, Scott Shean and Michael Treska. Advice was also
provided on benefits and compensation matters by New York
partner Bradd Williamson; on competition matters by Washington
partner Mike Egge and Jason Cruise; on tax by Los Angeles
partner Pardis Zomorodi; on intellectual property matters by
Silicon Valley partner Anthony Klein; and finance matters by Los
Angeles partner Glen Collyer.  Potter Anderson partners Mark A. Morton and T. Brad Davey
are representing the special committee to Quest’s board of
directors, the firm said.  The purchase would cap a monthslong bidding war for Quest
and fits with Dell’s aim to add technology that helps customers
outfit data centers for handling storage and cloud computing.
Quest’s software lets companies administer databases and
servers, as well as back up information and recover lost data.  “Quest Software plays in Dell’s sweet spot,” said  Abhey Lamba , an analyst at Mizuho Securities USA Inc., in a research
report yesterday. “The combination could help Dell jump start
its software business and would be margin accretive.”  For more, click here.  News  Dewey Collapse May Have Slowed Law Firm Mergers, Consultant Says  Law firm mergers and acquisitions slowed in the second
quarter this year, perhaps as a result of the “Dewey Effect,”
legal consulting firm Altman Weil reported yesterday.  There were 11 mergers in the second quarter of 2012, after
six quarters in which deals averaged 15 a quarter, the firm
said. Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP filed for  bankruptcy protection  in New
York in May after weeks of partner departures.  “The decline in law firm mergers and acquisitions in the
second quarter can be attributed to what we’re calling the
‘Dewey Effect’,” Ward Bower, an Altman Weil principal, said in
a statement. “The demise of Dewey LeBoeuf this spring put over
a thousand lawyers and hundreds of millions of dollars of
business into play, shifting the short-term focus of many law
firms to those opportunities.”  There were seven deals in April, two in May and two in
June. Ten of the 11 combinations involved law firms with fewer
than 10 lawyers. The 11th was a merger of two small Columbus,
Ohio, law firms, according to Altman Weil. Two large firms,
Pittsburgh’s Buchanan Ingersoll & Rooney and Cincinnati-based
Frost Brown Todd LLC, both acquired seven-lawyer firms in the
second quarter.  For more information on law firm mergers and acquisitions
see www.altmanweil.com/MergerLine.  Firm News  Clifford Chance Revenue Rises 7% on Growth in Asia-Pacific Work  Clifford Chance  LLP, the highest grossing firm of the so-
called magic circle, said revenue rose 7 percent to 1.3 billion
pounds ($2.04 billion) on new business in Asia and Australia
following local mergers.  Asia-Pacific revenue rose 28 percent in the 2011-12
financial year and accounted for 14 percent of the firm’s fee
income, Clifford Chance said in a statement. Average profit per
equity partner was 1.1 million pounds, up from 1 million a year
earlier.  The firm said its growth “particularly against the
backdrop of continued uncertainties in the  euro zone  which have
affected clients and markets globally,” Managing Partner David Childs said today in a conference call with reporters. The firm
is investing for the long term, he said, as “this has all the
signs of a pretty tough year.”  Allen & Overy LLP announced today a 6 percent rise in
revenue to 1.18 billion pounds. The other two firms in the magic
circle of Britain’s largest firms that release financial data
will publish the information later this week.  Clifford Chance, once the largest globally by income,
reported a 2 percent rise in income in the year earlier and an
eight percent rise in average profit per equity partner. This is
the first full year to include revenue from firms in Perth and
Sydney which merged with Clifford Chance in 2011.  Slaughter and May, the fifth member of the magic circle,
isn’t a limited liability partnership and so doesn’t release its
financial details.  Moves  Yahoo General Counsel Callahan Resigns, Bell Will Step In  Yahoo! Inc. general counsel, Michael J. Callahan, resigned
effective July 9, according to a company filing.  Callahan said in a  letter  dated June 28 and filed with the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission that he was leaving to
“move on to new opportunities.”  Ron Bell will serve in an interim role for Callahan,
according to letter to staff from Chief Executive Officer  Ross Levinsohn .  Scott Thompson  stepped down in May as CEO as a result of
misstatements about his academic record. He had been CEO since
January, replacing  Carol Bartz  who was fired in September.
Levinsohn stepped in as interim leader after Thompson’s exit.  There has also been turnover in the legal department, which
has lost almost 20 percent of its lawyers since Jan. 2011,
according to the Recorder, a legal trade publication.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  