-- Credit Swaps in U.S. Fall as Factory Orders, Auto Sales Advance
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d   a n d   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2012-07-03T18:36:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/credit-swaps-in-u-s-fall-as-factory-orders-auto-sales-advance.html
A benchmark gauge of U.S. corporate
debt risk was poised to fall to the lowest level in almost two
months as automakers reported sales that beat estimates and U.S.
factory orders rose for the first time in three months.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark used to hedge against losses on
corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness, decreased
2.7 basis points to a mid-price of 106.5 basis points at 1:42
p.m. in  New York , according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.
That’s the lowest on an intra-day basis since May 11.  The 0.7 percent increase in orders placed with U.S.
factories followed a revised 0.7 percent drop in the prior
month, the Commerce Department said today in  Washington , easing
concern that manufacturing is faltering. The median forecast of
economists in a Bloomberg News survey called for a rise to 0.1
percent.  General Motors Co. (GM) , Ford Motor Co. and Chrysler Group
LLC reported U.S. sales for June that topped analysts’
estimates, helping stay on pace for the best year since 2007.  “Factory order data and good sales from Chrysler and Ford
are supporting the economic backdrop,”  Joel Levington , managing
director of corporate credit at Brookfield Investment Management
Inc. in New York, wrote in an e-mail.  Auto Sales  U.S. auto sales may have accelerated to faster than a 14
million seasonally adjusted annualized  rate , GM and Chrysler
said in e-mailed statements. The forecasts top the 13.8 million
light-vehicle pace that was the average estimate of 15 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  The swaps gauge typically falls as investor confidence
improves and rises as it deteriorates. Credit swaps pay the
buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations,
less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  The credit-default measure fell as speculation grew that
central banks will act to spur growth. The  Federal Open Market
Committee  decided June 20 to extend its program to lower
borrowing costs by replacing short-term bonds with longer-
maturity debt, known as Operation Twist. Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  signaled after the announcement that
the central bank will consider additional stimulus, including
asset purchases, if employment stalls.  The  European Central Bank  is forecast by economists to cut
 interest rates  this week to mitigate the debt crisis, while
possible weakening U.S. employment may spur the Fed to pursue
more large-scale bond purchases, or quantitative easing,
according to BNP Paribas SA.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in New York at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Richard Bravo at 
 rbravo5@bloomberg.net  