-- Dara Torres Falls Short of Sixth Olympics at 45 as Hardy Wins
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-07-03T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/dara-torres-falls-short-of-sixth-olympics-at-45-as-hardy-wins.html
Dara Torres’s bid to qualify for her
sixth Olympic team at age 45 ended with a fourth-place finish in
the 50-meter freestyle at the U.S. swimming trials.  Jessica Hardy earned her second individual win yesterday in
Omaha,  Nebraska , where she finished in 24.5 seconds to add the
50m to her triumph in the 100m freestyle. Hardy missed the 2008
Beijing Olympics after testing positive for a banned substance
later ruled to be caused by a tainted supplement.  Kara Lynn Joyce took the second Olympic berth in the 50
freestyle with a time of 24.73, hitting the wall nine-hundredths
of a second ahead of Torres, whose 12 Olympic medals are tied
for the most by a U.S. female swimmer.  “This is really over,” Torres, who took three silver
medals in Beijing, said in a televised interview. “I’m going to
enjoy some time with my daughter, have a nice summer and cheer
the U.S. team on.”  Torres’s only event came on the final day of the U.S.
Olympic trials, where  Michael Phelps  said he’d drop the 200-
meter freestyle from his schedule in London, leaving him with a
shot at one fewer gold medal than the record eight he won in
Beijing four years ago.  Phelps, whose 14 Olympic gold medals are the most in
history, had won the 200m freestyle at the trials on June 27,
yet said he’ll skip it to focus on other events.  “The biggest thing we wanted to do is make sure that we
could compete at a high level with a lot of events,” Phelps
said in a phone interview. “After this week, thinking about
everything that will be there in London with possibly adding
three relays, we just want the best shot at doing the best that
we can with the events that we have.”  Phelps’s Schedule  Phelps will race in four individual events in  London  -- the
100- and 200-meter butterfly and the 200- and 400-meter
individual medley -- and probably compete in three relays.  Hardy, 25, won both the 50- and 100-meter freestyles in
Omaha after failing to qualify for the Olympics in her best
event, the 100-meter breaststroke.  “I don’t believe it,” Hardy said. “I thought I was a
breaststroker coming into this meet, but I’ll take it.”  Hardy in August 2008 withdrew from the U.S. Olympic swim
team and missed the Beijing Games after testing positive for a
banned substance at the trials the previous month. In May 2009,
the American Arbitration Association ruled the failed test was
caused by a contaminated nutritional supplement and reduced her
two-year ban to a year, a ruling that was later upheld by the
Court of Arbitration for Sports.  Andrew Gemmell and Connor Jaegar were the final two
additions to the U.S. Olympic swim team after finishing 1-2 in
the men’s 1,500-meter freestyle to end the trials.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  