-- David Jones Offer Probed for Possible Disclosure Issues
-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 2012-07-03T03:54:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/david-jones-offer-probed-for-possible-disclosure-issues.html
Australia ’s markets regulator is
examining possible disclosure and trading irregularities after a
takeover offer for  David Jones Ltd. (DJS)  collapsed days after sending
the retailer’s  shares  soaring.  The Australian Securities & Investments Commission plans to
pursue anyone who has broken the law, it said in a  statement  on
its website today. The investigation covers domestic and
international markets, ASIC said.  David Jones, Australia’s second-largest department store
owner, said yesterday a U.K. private equity fund withdrew a
A$1.65 billion ($1.69 billion) bid, causing the  stock  to reverse
most of its biggest gain in 17 years. The Sydney-based company
revealed the offer on June 29, saying it knew nothing about the
suitor, its management or its financial capability.  “ ASIC ’s priority is to ensure market integrity is
maintained and that markets are fair, orderly and transparent
and that, if there has been a breach of the law, those
responsible are held to account,” the regulator said in the
statement.  David Jones   shares  were unchanged at A$2.33 at 1:43 p.m. in
Sydney today, compared with a 0.1 percent decline for the
benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index.  “We’re monitoring our own share price and transactions on
our register,” said Helen Karlis, a spokeswoman for David
Jones, when asked to comment on the regulator’s statement.
“We’ve been engaged with ASIC since Friday.”  Takeover Speculation  David Jones has become the subject of takeover speculation
after a 47 percent share slump last year and as slowing consumer
spending prompted it to forecast its smallest annual profit in
six years.  Analysts at Nomura Holdings Inc. and Macquarie Group Ltd.
began questioning the credibility of the offer by EB Private
Equity soon after it was announced by David Jones in a June 29
regulatory  filing .  EB Private Equity had said it would lead a group providing
$850 million in equity, according to the filing. The offer would
also include $450 million of debt from a syndicate of banks and
investors, and $450 million in residual equity for existing
David Jones shareholders. The retailer recommended that
 shareholders  use caution and said there wasn’t enough
information available about EB Private Equity for David Jones to
evaluate the approach.  ‘False Market’  The retailer said in a statement to the stock exchange
yesterday that announcements regarding the proposed bid were
made to ensure that “there was not likely to be information in
the public domain that would lead to trading based on a false
market.”  It released the name of the bidder after a blog that calls
itself  newcastleetcfinanceblog  posted that EB Private Equity bid
1.1 billion pounds, the equivalent of about A$1.73 billion, for
the retailer.  EB Private Equity isn’t listed on the U.K.’s register of
companies. Its  website  doesn’t include the names of any
executives, phone numbers, or previous deals that involved EB
Private Equity. The firm describes itself as a Luxembourg and
U.K. real estate and real estate-related investor, developer and
private equity partner.  “Our proposal was made in an effort to engage with the
board,”  EB Private Equity said in an undated statement on its
website. “The board has made it clear it does not intend to
engage in these discussions based on our proposal. This is our
only statement on this matter.”  An e-mail contact for the firm no longer appears on the
website. There was no immediate response to a voicemail message
left outside of business hours today at a U.K. phone number
registered for the website in Newcastle,  England .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net . 