-- Def Jam Mogul Simmons Makes Rap Call for Mid-East Peace
-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 2012-07-03T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/def-jam-mogul-simmons-makes-musical-call-for-middle-east-peace.html
Hip-hop and fashion mogul  Russell Simmons  has a musical message for those in the Middle East
conflict: “Bury the beef.”  The founder of the  Def Jam  record label uses rap language
for ending an argument. He is trying to open hearts and minds on
both sides of the Jewish-Muslim divide with a planned CD and
concert in Jerusalem.  “To get two Palestinians and two Israelis to rap, to make
a video with a holy site in the background, that is a fun thing
to do,” Simmons, 54, says in an interview. “Dialogue has to be
cultural and music can be very helpful as a great catalyst.”  Peace talks between  Israel  and the Palestinians stalled in
Sept. 2010, when Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu 
refused to extend a 10-month partial construction freeze in West
Bank settlements. Palestinian Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas 
said he will not negotiate while the building continues.  “The politicians have proven they can do one thing, which
is stall and not have communications,” Russell says, wearing a
white polo shirt and baseball cap.  On a recent visit, he met bankers, Jerusalem’s mayor, the
chief rabbi of Haifa, and the Grand Mufti of Jerusalem, Sheikh
Mohammed Hussein.  “They are willing to work toward tolerance,” he says.
“The question is will they work toward a political solution.”  Holiest Site  During his Jerusalem stay, Simmons -- accompanied by his
friend Rabbi  Marc Schneier  -- placed a Yogic mantra in the
Western Wall, Judaism’s holiest site: “May it be the will that
people all over the world will be happy and free.” The black
American wears a necklace of black beads that bears a Yogi
symbol.  They also met Shari Arison, controlling shareholder of the
country’s second-largest bank by assets  Bank Hapoalim Ltd. (POLI) , who
Simmons says “really liked the idea of what we are doing.”  Mayor Nir Barkat proposed a hip-hop happening in Jerusalem
and Simmons has a few stars in mind. They include Israel’s Kobi
Shimoni, best known as Subliminal;  DJ Khalif  and Shyne, who was
sentenced to 10 years in jail for attempted murder and is now a
devout Jew named Moses.  “He gave me some great raps,” says Simmons of Shyne, a
one-time Def Jam artist. The label has also released music by
 Kanye West  and Rihanna. Simmons’s discoveries include the
 Beastie Boys , LLCoolJ, RunDMC and Public Enemy.  Phat Farm  Simmons is also the founder of the Phat Farm clothing line
and has a net worth of $340 million, according to
Celebnetwork.org. With Schneier, through the  Foundation for
Ethnic Understanding , he has persuaded Muslim and Jewish
religious leaders around the world to meet and even twin
congregations. Schneier is the institution’s founder and Simmons
is its chairman.  The sensitivities of the conflict were underscored during
their visit when Russell responded to a conference moderator who
mentioned that Louis Farrakhan, who Russell believes should be
part of a dialogue, hadn’t been constructive for the Jewish-
Muslim-black relations.  Russell said that Anti-Defamation League leader Abraham Foxman hadn’t been that helpful in building tolerance either,
prompting an angry response from the Jewish leader.  “What is disappointing is that someone who has a history
of having a blind spot to one of the most vociferous and ugly
anti-Semites would be given a platform in  Jerusalem ,” Foxman
said.  Work Respect  Simmons says in response now that he had no desire “to
create disharmony in our communities by having a public fight. I
respect Abe’s work.”  The encounter left him feeling that Jews and Muslims
weren’t irreconcilable.  “It’s all right,” he says. “In the rapper community,
they shoot at each other.”  He just intervened in a feud between  Chris Brown  and Drake
after a confrontation at a  New York  club.  “I settled that rap beef and although I don’t think it is
the same as imams and rabbis and their lack of understanding of
each others’ scriptures, I do find that in all the beefs you
settle, both sides have more in common than not,” Simmons says.  Muse highlights include  Scott Reyburn  on the art market and
 James Russell  on  architecture .  To contact the writer on the story:
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 