-- Democrats Say Chesapeake’s Taxes Show Need to Update Old Law
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r   a n d   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2012-07-03T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/democrats-say-chesapeake-s-taxes-show-need-to-update-old-law.html
Democrats said a report that the
second-largest U.S. natural-gas producer paid an effective
income tax rate of 1 percent makes it harder for the energy
industry and Republicans to justify a 100-year-old exemption for
drillers.  “Every revelation like this increases the likelihood that
these tax subsidies will disappear,” said Representative  Edward Markey , a Massachusetts Democrat who has introduced a bill to
repeal tax breaks to the five largest oil companies operating in
the U.S. “Oil and gas companies don’t need 100-year-old tax
breaks to make hundreds of billions in profits every year.”  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  has been able to postpone much of
its income-tax bill thanks to a provision designed to offset
inherent risks in drilling, Bloomberg News reported yesterday.  Critics say the policy is no longer needed as improvements
in technology reduce chances a well will come up dry.
Chesapeake, of Oklahoma City, which struck oil or gas in 99.6
percent of its wells this year, has paid $53 million in income
taxes on $5.5 billion in pretax profits since its founding 23
years ago. Its income tax bill is less than half of Chief
Executive Officer  Aubrey McClendon ’s compensation in 2008,
Bloomberg reported.  Senator  Robert Menendez , a New Jersey Democrat, said oil
subsidies “were a waste of taxpayer dollars, plain and
simple.”  Menendez Legislation  Menendez introduced legislation last year to repeal breaks
for oil and gas companies with revenue in excess of $100 million
a year, which would include Chesapeake. That measure hasn’t been
voted on in Congress.  Republicans have said the breaks encourage domestic
production and create thousands of jobs during a shaky economic
recovery.  “Energy development is a costly endeavor and we need to be
careful to not make it more difficult to produce energy here in
the United States,” Antonia Ferrier, a spokeswoman for Senator
 Orrin Hatch  of Utah, the top Republican on the tax-writing
Senate Finance Committee, said in an e-mail.  Republicans have also objected to singling out oil and gas
companies. Ferrier said Hatch supports a review of the entire
U.S. tax code as a way to stimulate growth.  The issue of energy taxes is a perennial topic in
Washington, particularly in recent years when average gasoline
prices have at times exceeded $4 a gallon, leading to record
profits at oil companies but also frustration among motorists.  Obama’s Efforts  President  Barack Obama  has tried without success to end
subsidies for fossil fuel producers, which are valued at more
than $40 billion over 10 years, and using the money to fund
clean-energy innovation.  That includes taking away the “intangible drilling costs”
deduction that has reduced the tax bills of Chesapeake and other
energy companies.  Obama believes the breaks are “unwarranted subsidies,”
 Clark Stevens , a White House spokesman, said in an e-mail.  Republicans and a few oil-patch Democrats turned back
efforts to repeal another Senate bill by Menendez that focused
on the five largest oil and gas producers by revenue operating
in the U.S., an effort that would produce about $24 billion for
the government. The law would cover  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Royal
Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  BP Plc (BP/) ,  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and  ConocoPhillips. (COP)   The intangible-drilling tax break, which has been around
since at least 1916, allows companies to count most of the cost
of drilling a new well against their taxes at the time the
money’s spent, rather than recognizing it over several years.  Failure Rate  An average of 80 percent of all the wells drilled failed to
strike oil and gas when the  tax policy  first came into use,
according to a 2008 Congressional Research Service report on the
history of energy tax policy.  Chesapeake drilled or invested in 13 dry holes in 2011 out
of 2,979 total wells drilled, a 0.4 percent failure rate,
according to company filings. Exxon had a 1.2 percent failure
rate, according to a public filing.  Repealing intangible drilling costs would generate $3.5
billion in 2013 and $13.9 billion in 10 years for the U.S.,
according to Obama’s budget request.  Data compiled by Bloomberg show that other oil and gas
companies besides Chesapeake were also able to cut their taxes
well below the corporate income rate of 35 percent.  Range
Resources Corp. (RRC)  paid income taxes of about 0.4 percent of pretax
income over the past decade, the data show.  Southwestern Energy
Co. (SWN)  paid 2.1 percent and  EQT Corp. (EQT)  paid 5.3 percent, the data
show.  Reduce Production  Domestic producers said repealing intangible drilling
expenses would reduce domestic production, thereby increasing
oil imports, and cost jobs.  “The elimination of the current policy would reduce U.S.
independent producers’ capital budgets by about 25 percent,”
Lee Fuller, vice president for government relations at the
Independent Petroleum Association of America in Washington, said
in an e-mail. “The number of dry wells may be lower because of
better technology but the cost of drilling is higher and the
business is still more risky than most.”  Harold Hamm, chairman and chief executive officer of
 Continental Resources Inc. (CLR) , which says it is the largest
leaseholder in the Bakken formation in  North Dakota  and Montana,
told the Senate Finance Committee last month that his company
would drill about one-third less oil without the ability to
expense drilling costs.  Hamm, who is also advising presumptive Republican
presidential nominee Mitt Romney on energy policy, said he was
speaking for himself and not his company or the campaign.  Romney Campaign  The Romney campaign didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking a
comment. Romney’s website says Obama has waged “war against oil
and coal.”  Michael Kehs, a spokesman for Chesapeake, said the company
has paid out more than $5 billion in cash toward taxes over the
past 12 years, a figure that includes income taxes.  The income-tax rate for accounting purposes has varied from
36 percent to 40 percent since 2000 in years that the company
reported a profit, he said.  Bloomberg analyzed the companies’ rates by comparing their
cash income taxes -- what they actually paid -- to the pretax
profits on their income statements over at least a decade. This
long-run cash-effective  tax rate  was described by three
accounting professors in a 2007 paper on  tax avoidance .  The measure is different from the tax rate publicly
reported by companies in their income statements, which compares
pretax income to the amount of tax the company accrues for
accounting purposes. That figure can bear little relation to
what the company actually pays to the government.  When production from old wells outstrips the expense of
drilling new holes, companies that postponed taxes will have to
pay up. Chesapeake had a deferred income tax liability of $3.4
billion as of Dec. 31.  “The politics of allowing the largest oil and gas
companies, along with the richest earners in America” to keep
their tax breaks as federal programs are being cut, “will
become increasingly difficult for Republicans to defend,”
Markey said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  