-- Deutsche Telekom in Talks With Google on Mobile Payments
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2012-07-03T08:13:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/deutsche-telekom-in-talks-with-google-on-mobile-payments.html
Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  is in discussions
with  Google Inc. (GOOG)  along with credit-card companies and banks to
add partners to its mobile-payment system, Thomas Kiessling, the
German company’s head of innovation, said in an interview.  Europe ’s second-largest phone company yesterday unveiled an
alliance with  Mastercard Inc. (MA)  in Europe over its mobile wallet,
which allows customers to pay bills using account information
stored on handsets. While banks and software companies are
working on their own offerings and 50 to 60 different mobile
wallets are entering the market, only three or four platforms
will survive, Kiessling said.  “We’re talking to other players in the market, and even a
cooperation with Google is theoretically possible,” Kiessling,
whose title is chief product and innovation officer, said in
Berlin yesterday. “We’re in talks there as well,” he said,
declining to specify potential areas of cooperation.  Deutsche Telekom is targeting its mobile-payment service at
its 93 million wireless customers in Europe, a region where 57
percent of all purchases are still paid for in cash, according
to the Bonn-based company. Google, which introduced Google
Wallet  in the U.S.  last year, is considering changes to the
offering including sharing revenue with phone companies after
its slow adoption, people familiar with the situation said in
March.  Payment Revenue  Stefan Keuchel, a Hamburg-based spokesman for  Mountain
View , California- based Google, declined to immediately comment.  In Europe, revenue from processing payments via credit
cards, bank transfers and other means is set to grow to 13
billion euros ($16.4 billion) by 2016 from 11 billion euros this
year, Kiessling said. The region will see a proliferation of
contact-less payment technologies such as near-field
communication, he said, adding that the carrier will help
install such terminals in stores.  Enlisting other payment enablers for its mobile wallet
platform may attract more consumers, Kiessling said. Cooperation
with other telecommunications companies to standardize mobile-
wallet technology only makes sense in the medium term once a
certain level of acceptance among consumers is reached, he said.  “In many areas you shouldn’t wait for standardization,
because that’s how the telcos missed a series of innovations
over the past 10 years,” the executive said. “We tried to
standardize advanced messaging globally and in the end other
industries were faster.”  Mozilla Platform  With 60 percent to 70 percent of commerce occurring
locally, standardization may also inhibit success in Deutsche
Telekom’s various national markets in Europe, where it’s better
to find tailored solutions with vendors and other partners,
Kiessling said. The carrier, which holds a license to handle
financial transactions via its Clickandbuy unit, plans to roll
out its mobile wallet in  Poland  in August, followed by its
German home market next year.  AT&T Inc. (T) ,  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  and Deutsche
Telekom’s T-Mobile USA unit in 2010 teamed up through a joint
venture dubbed ISIS to provider their own mobile wallet
platform. That alliance will unveil its first product this year,
Kiessling said.  Separately, Deutsche Telekom is evaluating offering devices
with an open mobile operating system from Mozilla Corp. in some
of its eastern European markets, Kiessling said. Such handsets
would initially cost about 80 euros to 100 euros and it’s too
early to specify a date when the phones would start selling, he
said.  Poland is one of several markets where the renown of the
Mozilla brand may help the platform succeed, he said. Telefonica
SA said yesterday it will offer phones running the platform, a
competitor to Google’s Android, in  Brazil  in early 2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  