-- Diamond Pays Penalty for Being First Mover in Libor Probe
-- B y   L i a m   V a u g h a n ,   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k   a n d   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2012-07-04T08:37:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/diamond-pays-penalty-for-being-first-mover-in-libor-probe.html
Barclays Plc (BARC)  saved itself 25.5
million pounds ($40 million) in fines by moving first to settle
a probe over the rigging of global  interest rates . In return, it
has lost three top executives,  $5 billion  of market value and
sparked a government inquiry.  Barclays, still the U.K’s second-largest lender after
losing a fifth of its market value in two weeks, is one of at
least 12 banks including  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) 
under investigation for manipulating the London interbank
offered rate. The decision to cooperate with regulators before
its competitors in exchange for more lenient treatment has
backfired, analysts and investors say.  “They had a difficult tactical and regulatory decision to
make, and they have paid the first-mover penalty,” said Owen Watkins, a former regulator with the U.K. Financial Services
Authority who is now a lawyer at Lewis Silkin LLP in London.
“Effectively, they were cooperating in putting their heads in
the noose.”  Chief Executive Officer  Robert Diamond , under pressure from
policy makers and investors, resigned yesterday after the bank
was fined a record 290 million pounds last week for rigging
Libor as well as Euribor, its equivalent in euros, starting as
early as 2005. Diamond, 60, will face questions from lawmakers
at a Treasury Select Committee hearing today on how the bank
failed to prevent the abuse of a benchmark used to set interest
payments on $500 trillion of securities from mortgages to swaps.  Libor Calculations  Libor and Euribor are calculated by a survey of banks’
daily estimates of how much it would cost them to borrow from
one another for different time frames and in different
currencies. Because submissions aren’t based on real trades, the
potential exists for the benchmark to be manipulated by traders
hoping to profit on where the rate is set. Barclays’s executives
also were downplaying their borrowing costs by making low
submissions to avoid the perception they were in trouble,
according to regulators.  Diamond, the U.K.’s best-known banker, must explain “the
nature of the manipulation, who was involved, how long were they
involved for, was it escalated, did they inform the regulator,
did they inform the Bank of England,” said  Dominic Rossi , chief
investment officer for equities at Fidelity Worldwide
Investments, one of Barclays’s 10-biggest shareholders,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. “I don’t think anybody
should underestimate the seriousness of this,” he said in a
telephone interview.  Barclays’s Cooperation  While Barclays says it’s yet to set Diamond’s severance
package, he may be entitled to a payoff of between 2 million
pounds and 21 million pounds, according to Manifest Information
Services Ltd., a proxy voting firm that advises clients managing
3 trillion pounds of assets.  Barclays was the first bank to cooperate “in a meaningful
way” in disclosing its conduct, the U.S.  Justice Department 
said in a  statement  last week. “From the outset Barclays’s
cooperation has been extraordinary and extensive in terms of
quality and type of information and assistance provided,” the
Justice Department said. “The nature and value of Barclays’s
cooperation has exceeded what other entities have provided in
the course of this investigation.”  By cooperating with regulators Barclays’s managers tried to
end the issue quickly and move on, said a company executive, who
declined to be named because the talks were private. They
expected investors would react positively after the bank
successfully negotiated a reduction in fines, the executive
said. The FSA  agreed  to cut its fine to 59.5 million pounds from
85 million pounds, the London-based regulator said in its June
27 settlement document.  ’Done Deliberately’  “It was our decision to cooperate as well as we did with
the authorities, and indeed, remarkably, they complimented us on
it, but that was done deliberately and notwithstanding the fact
that it would mean that we were probably going to be first into
the public arena and there’d be consequences,” Barclays
Chairman Marcus Agius, 65, said on a call with reporters
yesterday. “This seemed to us the right way to do it.”  The bank also expected to gain credit for alerting
regulators that competitors were masking difficulties in
borrowing money during the financial crisis by submitting
artificially low rates, according to the executive who declined
to be named.  Regulatory Exchanges  Barclays spoke to the  Bank of England , the FSA, the  Federal
Reserve Bank of New York  and the British Bankers’ Association 33
times in 2007 and 2008, the lender said in a  statement  to
lawmakers yesterday. In those conversations it “consistently”
raised concerns that its competitors were low-balling the rate,
the bank said. Barclays’s  three-month dollar Libor  submissions
were in the top quartile 89 percent of times from Sept. 1, 2007
to Dec. 31, 2008, the bank said in the statement.  “Barclays did not understand why other banks were
consistently posting lower submissions” and “firmly believe
that the other panel members were not, in fact funding at a
lower cost than Barclays, and we were disappointed that no
effective action was taken,” the bank said.  Barclays has spent 100 million pounds investigating the
issue, according to the London-based firm. “It is ironic that
there has been such an intense focus on Barclays alone, caused
by our being first to settle in the midst of an industry-wide,
global investigation,” the company said.  ‘Suffered Hugely’  Investors and analysts are now questioning the logic of
that decision.  “I am surprised they came out first,” Laurence D. Fink,
59, chairman of New York-based  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , said in an
interview with  Erik Schatzker  and  Trish Regan  on Bloomberg
Television’s “Market Makers.” BlackRock is the world’s largest
asset manager and Barclays’s second-biggest shareholder,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “I think they have suffered hugely by being the first to
settle,”  Ian Gordon , an analyst at  Investec Plc (INVP)  in London, said
in a telephone interview. “With the benefit of hindsight, it’s
been strategically disastrous.”  The stock was down 1.7 percent at 164.2 pence as of 9:34
a.m. in London trading today. Barclays  shares  have fallen 20
percent since June 20 to 167.05 pence while the 43-company
Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services  Index (BEBANKS)  has gained
2.3 percent. Jerry Del Missier, 50, who was named chief
operating officer last month, and Agius, the chairman, will
follow Diamond in leaving the bank.  RBS, UBS  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) ,  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Credit Suisse
Group AG (CSGN)  are among banks awaiting their fate as regulators from
Tokyo to London to New York investigate. UBS said the U.S.
Justice Department’s antitrust division granted it immunity
regarding submissions for yen Libor and Euroyen Tokyo Interbank
Offered Rate, or Tibor, after it was first to offer assistance.
It was granted immunity in Switzerland over suspected
manipulation of yen Libor, Tibor and Swiss franc Libor rates,
the bank said.  FSA Chairman  Adair Turner  said yesterday that the
investigations into Libor are at various stages “reflecting the
cooperation of firms and their willingness to settle.”  Bankers and traders under suspicion may have to wait months
because regulators in the U.S. aren’t ready to bring actions
against other banks, according to people briefed on the matter,
who declined to be named because the talks are private.  Sleeping Soundly?  “Barclays is now the benchmark,” said Watkins, the former
FSA regulator. “They have been fined, they have lost their
chairman and they have lost their chief executive. If you are
the chairman or the CEO of these other institutions, you might
be sleeping a little less soundly in your bed at night.”  Other firms may face less severe sanctions, said Frank Braden, a banking analyst at  Standard & Poor’s  in London.  “People realize that that’s not in the best interest in
the long run to have a constant turnover of the heads of these
large banks,” Braden said. “A lot of these banks have already
recently had new replacements for their CEOs. They have already
paid the price of past mistakes.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liam Vaughan in London at 
 lvaughan6@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net ;
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  