-- Diamond Dropping Fundraising Role for Romney in London
-- B y   J u l i e   B y k o w i c z
-- 2012-07-03T14:23:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/diamond-dropping-fundraising-role-for-romney-in-london.html
Robert Diamond , who today stepped
down as chief executive of  Barclays Plc (BARC) , will no longer co-host
a London campaign fundraiser this month for presumptive U.S.
Republican presidential nominee Mitt Romney, campaign
spokeswoman Andrea Saul confirmed.  Diamond resigned amid political pressure the London-based
bank faced after it admitted to rigging global interest rates.  The July 27 Romney fundraising dinner, scheduled for a day
when Romney is in town for the Olympics, will proceed without
Diamond. The financial sector has been one of Romney’s top
sources of campaign contributions. Romney is a former
Massachusetts governor and co-founder of Bain Capital LLC, a
private-equity firm based in Boston.  Supporters in the investment and securities industry
contributed about $9.4 million to Romney’s campaign through the
end of May, compared with at least $3.4 million that President
Barack Obama has raised from them, according to the Washington-
based Center for Responsive Politics.  Patrick Durkin, who advocates in Washington for Barclays,
is Romney’s top lobbyist bundler, according to a list the
campaign filed with the U.S. Federal Election Commission. Durkin
had collected $927,160 for the campaign through the end of May.  Financial Money  Both Romney and Obama have held high-profile fundraisers
featuring the biggest names on Wall Street.  Tony James , president of private-equity and real estate
giant  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , welcomed Obama to his apartment on
New York’s Fifth Avenue for a fundraiser May 14. Three weeks
later, Obama and former President  Bill Clinton  attended a
fundraiser at the Upper East Side residence of Mark Lasry,
founder of Avenue Capital Group LLC.  Romney, meanwhile, has counted on donors including hedge-
fund managers  Paul Singer  of Elliott Management Corp.,
Renaissance Technologies LLC co-chief executive officer Robert Mercer and  John Paulson  of Paulson & Co., as well as Tiger
Management LLC founder Julian Robertson and three of his former
hedge fund managers, Lee Ainslie, John A. Griffin and Chris Shumway. Each has written checks to Restore Our Future, a super-
political action committee backing Romney, in addition to the
candidate.  Obama has been critical of Wall Street, saying Republicans
including Romney want to roll back regulations enacted after the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in September 2008.
Obama also has pushed to raise taxes on Americans earning $1
million or more a year.  The president and a super-PAC supporting his re-election
have run television ads criticizing Romney’s tenure at Bain,
saying workers lost their jobs and that some work was moved out
of the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Bykowicz in  Washington  at 
 jbykowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  