-- Diamond Exit Raises Speculation of Investment-Bank Split
-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i ,   H o w a r d   M u s t o e   a n d   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 2012-07-04T16:11:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/diamond-exit-raises-speculation-of-investment-bank-split.html
When  Robert Diamond  took over
 Barclays Plc (BARC) ’s shrinking securities unit in 1997 he vowed to
turn the business into a leading global firm.  Fifteen years later, his success in creating a top
investment bank, whose profit reached $4.7 billion in 2011, may
hasten its split from the lender after the London-based bank
admitted to trying to rig global  interest rates . Diamond quit as
Barclays’s chief executive officer yesterday and hours later
Chief Operating Officer Jerry del Missier followed.  The departure of Diamond may presage a reorganization of
Barclays after regulators in the U.K. and the U.S. pointed to
the need for change at the company. The interest rate debacle is
intensifying political pressure in the U.K. to build higher
walls between banks’ consumer lending and  investment-banking 
divisions to protect savers and taxpayers.  “Now is a very sensible time to pause, draw breath, assess
what’s happened and look again at this question of a ring fence
or separation,” said Clive Hollick, a former CEO of United News
& Media Group Plc and member of the House of Lords Economic
Affairs Committee.  Barclays was hit by a record 290 million-pound ($455
million) fine last week for rigging the  London  Interbank Offered
Rate, a benchmark for more than $360 trillion of securities.
Diamond, as CEO of the investment bank from 1997 through 2010,
oversaw the unit where Libor rates were submitted.  Costs, Complexities  The U.K. Treasury plans to implement recommendations of the
Independent Commission on Banking, which proposed financial
firms should build firewalls between their consumer and
investment-banking operations.  Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King  said on June 29 the Libor revelations reinforced the
argument for implementing the proposals as soon as possible.  “Barclays management should begin talking to people about
the costs and complexities around a break up, the potential
scale of U.S. liabilities” related to Libor, “and how it can
insulate itself,” said  Gareth Hunt , head of European research
at Canaccord Genuity in London. There may be assets like U.K.
consumer banking which can be ring-fenced or split off, he said.  U.K. regulators are weighing whether to start a criminal
probe into Libor-fixing and Diamond, 60, was questioned today by
British lawmakers on the Treasury Select Committee. Barclays is
one of at least 12 banks, including Citigroup Inc. and  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA) , under investigation for manipulating Libor.  ‘Business Model’  Diamond said the actions of those involved are
“reprehensible” and “wrong,” and the 14 traders responsible
have been dealt with.  “This isn’t about the business model,” Diamond told the
committee. “If it happened in the investment bank it can happen
in retail banking.”  In a sign of worsening relations between Barclays and its
regulators, the company released a note yesterday of a 2008 call
purporting to show that  Paul Tucker , then the central bank’s
markets director, hinted the firm could cut its Libor rates.  “Tucker stated that the levels of calls he was receiving
from Whitehall were ‘senior’ and that while he was certain we
did not need advice, that it did not always need to be the case
that we appeared as high as we have recently,” Diamond said in
an Oct. 30, 2008 e-mail to then CEO  John Varley  and Del Missier.  Diamond didn’t believe he had received any instruction or
that he gave any order to Del Missier to lower the lender’s
submissions, Barclays said. Del Missier, 50, concluded that the
Bank of England had instructed the firm not to keep Libor so
high and mistakenly instructed employees to lower their
submissions, Barclays said.  Tucker said today he wants to testify before the committee
“as soon as possible.”  Higher Ranking  Damage to the franchise he helped create prompted Diamond
to go, the banker said in a statement yesterday. The American
was the chief architect of Barclays’s expansion into investment
banking, creating a business that had 24,000 employees at the
end of last year, more than three times as many as when he took
over the unit.  The division, known until March as  Barclays Capital , earned
pretax  profit  of 2.97 billion pounds last year, or almost half
of the bank’s total. Barclays ranks fifth in advising on global
mergers this year, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The firm
wasn’t in the top 20 in 2007, the year before it bought the
North American operations of  Lehman Brothers  Holdings Inc.  Political Pressure  “Diamond’s been incredibly successful in turning what was
a minor player into a top tier investment bank,” said George Godber, a  fund manager  who helps oversee about $250 million at
Matterley Asset Management in London, and doesn’t hold Barclays
stock. “Now you’re likely to see political pressure mount for a
separation of Barclays’s investment-banking unit.”  Diamond, a year after joining what was then Barclays de
Zoete Wedd, took the helm and steered the firm through the sale
of its money-losing European equities unit to focus on bonds,
loans and foreign exchange.  It was a rocky start. In 1998, Barclays Capital reported a
loss after bets on  Russia  soured amid the country’s devaluation.  Diamond, who rose through the fixed-income trading ranks at
New York-based Morgan Stanley and  Credit Suisse First Boston 
before Barclays, continued to hire and expand the business. He
lost out on the CEO job to Varley, 56, and became president of
the bank in 2005.  Lehman Purchase  Diamond propelled Barclays into the top ranks in equities
and mergers by leading the bid to buy the Lehman operations when
the New York-based firm collapsed at the height of the subprime-
mortgage crisis. He struck a deal to  acquire  the North American
investment-banking business of the bankrupt firm for $1.75
billion and then embarked on a hiring spree to add stock
underwriting and merger advisory businesses and bankers in
 Europe  and Asia to match its standing in the U.S.  Not everyone advocates a change of direction.  “I think they should sit back and relax,” said
 Christopher Wheeler , a London-based analyst at Mediobanca SpA.
“The investment bank is a top three in the world, no argument
about it. Why on earth, having made this investment and a very
good acquisition of Lehman Brothers, would someone come in and
change their strategy?”  Barclays made it through the credit crisis without direct
government support. Since then, tightening global capital
standards and Europe’s sovereign debt woes have kept investment-
banking profitability below pre-crisis levels.  High Leverage  After becoming CEO of Barclays at the start of 2011,
Diamond vowed to boost return on equity to 13 percent. The
 measure  stood at 6.6 percent at the end of last year.  Net income 
for 2011 fell to 3 billion pounds from 3.56 billion pounds as
investment-banking revenue shrank.  Within investment banking, there has been “consistency of
earnings,” Diamond said today.  Barclays has  dropped  37 percent in London trading since
Diamond took over, compared with a 13 percent  decline  in HSBC,
Britain’s largest bank, leading to impatience among some
investors.  “Their leverage is still high, they’ve got regulatory
worries, they’ve got capital worries, you can’t look at them and
say it’s a conservative investment,” said  John Smith , a senior
fund manager at Brown Shipley & Co., which manages 2.3 billion
pounds, including Barclays shares. “I would like to see them
break the bank in two so you have a low-risk retail bank
offering savings and loans and an investment bank where they’re
using their own money to take on a lot of risk.”  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net ;
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 choudhury@bloomberg.net .
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at +33-1-5365-5063 or
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net 
Edward Evans at +44-20-7073-3190 or
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  