-- Diamond Joins List of Exiled Financial Leaders: Timeline
-- B y   L a u r a   J .   K e l l e r
-- 2012-07-03T19:24:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/diamond-joins-list-of-exiled-financial-leaders-timeline.html
Robert Diamond ’s resignation from
 Barclays Plc (BARC)  adds to the list of chairmen or chief executive
officers at the world’s largest banks who were replaced after
losses or accusations of mismanagement. The timeline below
provides a summary of the circumstances surrounding two dozen
departures starting in 2007.  July 2007
Peter Wuffli, CEO
UBS AG
Replaced after shutting Dillon Read hedge fund unit at a cost of
$300 million and suffering defections by senior bankers.  October 2007
Stan O’Neal, Chairman and CEO
Merrill Lynch & Co.
Removed after reporting a third-quarter loss that was six times
what the firm had forecast three weeks earlier.  November 2007
Charles Prince, Chairman and CEO
 Citigroup Inc. (C) 
Stepped down after the bank, the largest in the U.S. at the
time, warned of as much as $11 billion in writedowns on top of
$6 billion for the third quarter.  January 2008
James Cayne, Chairman and CEO
Bear Stearns Cos.
Lost CEO title as firm spiraled toward collapse in July, in part
because of mortgage-related losses. He retained chairman title
until takeover by  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   April 2008
Marcel Ospel, Chairman
UBS AG
Gave up post as the bank, battered by writedowns from the U.S.
subprime mortgage market, reported an $11.9 billion first-
quarter loss. Swiss banking regulators helped force Ospel’s
resignation, according to subsequent accounts.  April 2008
 Daniel Bouton , Chairman and CEO
Societe Generale SA
Replaced as CEO after bank revealed that employee Jerome Kerviel
amassed 50 billion euros in positions backed by fake hedges and
false documents, resulting in a record 4.9 billion-euro trading
loss. Resigns as chairman effective May 6, 2009.  June 2008
Ken Thompson, CEO
Wachovia Corp.
Ousted after acquisition of Golden West Financial Corp. led to
mounting losses on mortgages. The bank was on the verge of
collapse later in the year when it was sold to  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)   June 2008
 Martin Sullivan , CEO
American International Group Inc.
Replaced after the insurer’s bets on derivatives tied to
mortgage debt soured, triggering demands for collateral that the
firm ultimately couldn’t meet.  July 2008
Angelo Mozilo, Chairman and CEO
Countrywide Financial Corp.
Departed as  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  completed takeover, saving
firm from bankruptcy. Countrywide’s lax loan standards later
contributed to more than $40 billion in losses and writedowns.  September 2008
 Daniel Mudd , CEO
Fannie Mae
Dismissed when the government seized control of the mortgage
finance company to prevent its collapse as defaults soared.  September 2008
 Richard Syron , Chairman and CEO
Freddie Mac
Ousted as the government seized control of Freddie Mac to
prevent its collapse as mortgage defaults set national records.  September 2008
 Kerry Killinger , Chairman and CEO
Washington Mutual Inc.
Fired from CEO role, and the bank failed later that month under
weight of mortgage defaults. He was ousted as chairman as of
July 1.  September 2008
Richard Fuld, Chairman and CEO
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
Resigned as CEO as the firm, once the largest underwriter of
mortgage-backed securities, headed for the biggest bankruptcy in
U.S. history.  September 2008
Robert Willumstad, CEO
American International Group Inc.
Replaced three months into his tenure as the government took
control to prevent AIG’s demise from collapsing the entire
financial system.  October 2008
 Fred Goodwin , CEO
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
Replaced following a bailout of the bank by the British
government. The UK became majority stakeholder as a plan to
issue emergency shares failed.  December 2008
David Drumm, CEO
Anglo Irish Bank Corp.
Stepped down the day after Chairman  Sean Fitzpatrick  quit for
not fully disclosing $124 million in loans from the bank.  January 2009
John Thain, CEO
Merrill Lynch & Co.
Ousted by Bank of America Corp. CEO Kenneth D. Lewis after
disputes over losses and bonuses that soured the bank’s takeover
of Merrill Lynch.  February 2009
Brian Goggin, CEO
Bank of Ireland Plc
Retired as the bank prepared to accept a cash injection of
3.5 billion euros from the Irish government.  April 2009
Eugene Sheehy, CEO
Allied Irish Banks Plc
Announced plans to depart after insisting the bank didn’t need
extra capital to combat losses on property loans. The bank had
to raise 5 billion euros, including a government bailout.  November 2009
Al de Molina, CEO
GMAC Inc. (Ally Financial Inc.)
Resigned at request of the board after two years trying to turn
around the auto and home lender, which had reported losses in
eight of the last nine quarters.  December 2009
 Kenneth D. Lewis , Chairman and CEO
Bank of America Corp.
Stripped of chairman’s title at an April shareholder meeting,
Lewis retired as CEO after Merrill Lynch acquisition triggered
an expanded federal bailout and a clash with regulators.  September 2011
 Oswald Gruebel , CEO
UBS AG
Resigned after the bank suffered a $2.3 billion loss from
unauthorized trading in the London office.  May 2012
Rodrigo Rato, Chairman
Bankia
Quit amid a second government-led rescue of the bank, Spain’s
biggest by assets.  July 2012
Robert Diamond, CEO
Barclays Plc
Resigned as CEO after the bank was accused of attempting to rig
global interest rates. Chief Operating Officer Jerry Del Missier
also left.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura J. Keller in New York at 
 Lkeller12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 