-- Draghi’s Giant Leap on Rates May Be Small Step for Euro
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2012-07-04T08:48:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/draghi-s-giant-leap-on-rates-may-be-small-step-for-euro-economy.html
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  may take a giant leap in monetary policy tomorrow for
limited economic gain.  ECB officials meeting in  Frankfurt  will not only take the
 benchmark interest rate  below 1 percent for the first time to a
record low of 0.75 percent, they will also cut the deposit rate
to zero, according to Bloomberg News  surveys  of economists. The
easing will do little to aid an economy sliding into recession
and may fuel speculation about what the ECB can do after its
conventional policy options are spent, some economists said.  “It’s a bold move and will lead the ECB into uncharted
territory,” said  Julian Callow , chief European economist at
 Barclays Capital  in  London . “With soaring unemployment and few
signs of the economy recovering, some strong monetary medicine
is needed. But let’s be honest, a rate cut by itself will not
end the recession, we need much more for that.”  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis, which has forced five of
the 17 euro nations to seek bailouts, is curbing growth across
the continent and damping the global economic outlook. While ECB
rate cuts might not stimulate demand, they would lower borrowing
costs for troubled banks. They could also build on the
confidence boost that euro-area governments provided last week
when they took steps toward a deeper economic union.  ‘Signaling Effect’  The ECB will announce its rate decision at 1:45 p.m. in
Frankfurt tomorrow. Of 62 economists surveyed by Bloomberg, 46
predicted a quarter-point cut in the benchmark rate, five
forecast a half-point reduction and 11 projected no change. In a
separate survey of 22 forecasters, 12 said the 0.25 percent
deposit rate will be cut to zero, two predicted a reduction to
just above zero and eight expected no change.  “A rate cut will have a very, very limited effect on
inflation and activity,” said Jens Sondergaard, senior European
economist at Nomura International Plc in London, who
nevertheless predicts the ECB will lower rates. “You may ask
why bother in the first place, but it’s wrong to dismiss rate
cuts. They have an important signaling effect, and markets want
reassurance that measures are being taken.”  Bond and equity markets rallied last week after euro-area
leaders opened the way to recapitalizing banks directly with
bailout funds once Europe sets up a single banking supervisor.
They also dropped the requirement that taxpayers get preferred
creditor status on aid to Spain’s crippled lenders.  Yields on Spanish 10-year bonds fell to 6.25 percent
yesterday from 6.94 percent on June 28, while the Italian
equivalent dropped to 5.63 percent from 6.19 percent.  Global Action  Europe’s debt crisis has pushed central banks around the
world into action to protect their economies.  The  Bank of England  last month committed to activate a
sterling liquidity facility to aid banks, and economists predict
it will expand stimulus further at its policy decision tomorrow.
It will increase its  target  for bond purchases by 50 billion
pounds ($78 billion) to 375 billion pounds, according to the
median forecast in a survey of 41 economists.  The  Federal Reserve  said on June 20 it will expand the
Operation Twist program to extend the maturities of assets on
its balance sheet, a move that will lower longer-term interest
rates in financial markets.  The central banks of  China ,  Australia , the  Czech Republic ,
 Kazakhstan ,  Vietnam  and  Israel  also cut rates in June, while the
 Swiss National Bank  is buying euros to defend its franc ceiling.  Draghi last month questioned the effectiveness of cutting
ECB rates, arguing that “price signals” have a “relatively
limited immediate effect” amid financial-market tensions.  ‘No Inflation Risks’  Since then, the euro-area economic data have deteriorated.
Unemployment rose to a record 11.1 percent in May, economic
confidence slumped to the lowest in more than two and a half
years in June, and data today confirmed that services and
manufacturing output contracted for a fifth month. The euro
economy will shrink 0.3 percent this year, according to the
European Commission.  While inflation is at 2.4 percent, in breach of the ECB’s 2
percent limit, Draghi said on June 15 that there are “no
inflation risks in any euro-area country.”  “The economic case for a 50 basis-point rate cut is pretty
watertight, but for now it’s easier to just cut by 25 basis
points,” said  Ken Wattret , chief euro-area economist at BNP
Paribas in London. “That is enough to show you are standing
ready to do something. And it will definitely help the banks
that have borrowed in the LTRO.”  Three-Year Loans  The ECB has lent banks more than 1 trillion euros ($1.26
trillion) for three years in its so-called Longer Term
Refinancing Operations, with the interest determined by the
average of the benchmark rate over the period of the loans.
Societe Generale SA estimates that cutting the key rate by 50
basis points would save banks 5 billion euros a year.  Cutting the deposit rate may also lower money-market rates
and encourage banks to lend to other institutions, companies or
households instead of parking excess cash in the ECB’s overnight
deposit facility. Almost 800 billion euros is currently being
deposited with the ECB each day.  On the other hand, there is a risk that lower money-market
rates could hurt banks’ profitability, potentially hampering
credit supply to companies and households and reducing banks’
incentive to lend to each other.  The deposit rate has steered market borrowing costs since
the ECB started to provide banks with unlimited liquidity after
the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008. That
policy removed the need for banks to lend to each other to meet
their  reserve requirements , pushing down interest rates. The
euro overnight index average, or Eonia, stood at 0.33 percent
yesterday.  Rewarding Governments  The impact of lower borrowing costs on the economy may be
too small for the ECB to expose itself to the perception that
it’s rewarding governments for their latest crisis-fighting
efforts, said economists at UBS AG in London and Helaba Trust
GmbH in Frankfurt, who predict no change in rates.  “We acknowledge that the decision is close, but on
balance, given the marginal benefit of a small rate cut and the
perception that a rate cut will be interpreted as a quid pro quo
for good behavior, the Council will stay on hold,” UBS
economists including Amit Kara wrote in a note to clients.  Draghi said after the last policy meeting on June 6, when
the ECB kept rates on hold, that “there has never been a quid
pro quo between monetary policy and government policy.”  Still, the ECB doesn’t have a compelling reason not to act,
said  Marco Valli , chief euro-area economist at UniCredit Global
Research in Milan. “There is no big reason to hold fire even if
the benefit is small,” he said. “To me, having a little
benefit is better than having no benefit at all.”  ‘What Next?’  If the ECB moves closer to zero with rates, it may face
questions on what else it can do to stimulate the economy.  Elga Bartsch, chief European economist at Morgan Stanley in
London, advocates “large scale asset purchases,” while
 Christian Schulz , senior economist at Berenberg Bank in London,
suggests yield caps for “reform-compliant and solvent
sovereigns” and another round of “very long-term” loans.  “They will have no more ammunition in terms of their
 interest-rate  weapon,” said Sondergaard at Nomura. “And if we
continue to have disinflationary pressures, the question will
be: ‘What can you do next?”’  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  