-- Duisburg Back From Brink Gives German Lesson in Economic Revival
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2012-07-03T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/duisburg-back-from-brink-gives-german-lesson-in-economic-revival.html
For ways to revive the flagging
European economy, the case of Duisburg shows why Germany thinks
it holds the blueprint.  When clubbers in  Tokyo  consume a can of Red Bull energy
drink they share something with workers using  Hitachi Ltd. (6501)  parts
at the Kusile power plant in  South Africa : the products were
shipped from the city. Leveled in World War II bombing raids
before rising to become the country’s steel and coal-mining
capital in the 1960s, Duisburg overcame economic ruin again four
decades later after those industries declined to turn itself
into the world’s largest inland port.  “The  Duisburg  example shows that it is possible to change
if certain industries are going down,” said Jens Suedekum, an
economics professor at the  University of Duisburg-Essen . “Even
if it is a painful transformation that takes a long time, it is
the same kind of transformation that  Greece  and Spain need, and
the only change they can make, to flourish again.”  By turning abandoned mines and idled  steel mills  into
warehouses and logistics centers, the city in the industrial
Ruhr Valley on the Rhine river recast itself as a  shipping and
distribution hub . Duisburg dispatched about a third of the 400
million tons of cargo handled at German ports last year,
according to volume data compiled by Bloomberg.  New Capacity  As a result, the city is adding two new container terminals
to the eight it has now, Erich Staake, chief executive officer
of port operator Duisburger Hafen AG, said in an interview.  One of the two terminals has been completed and will start
operating in early 2013, while the second, to be used by the
German rail network, will open in January 2014, Jan Heitmann, a
spokesman for Duisport, said on July 2.  “We had to build the port new and took a decision 10 years
ago to work very hard to position Duisburg as one of the leading
logistics places,” Staake said in his office overlooking
hundreds of green, red and grey  Maersk (MAERSKB) , Cosco and Hanjin
containers waiting for shipment.  The port, which is bigger than Marseille in  France  and
Piraeus in Greece, handles more goods than any other  harbor in
Europe  apart from Rotterdam in the Netherlands, Antwerp in
 Belgium  and Hamburg, the largest German port.  Paris-based food processing company  Danone (BN)  SA sends its
Evian and Volvic bottled water from factories in France on
trains to Duisburg for shipment to northern Germany, the
Netherlands and Belgium.  Export Drive  German exports exceeded 1 trillion euros ($1.26 trillion)
for the first time in 2011. While the European Commission
predicts the euro region’s economy will shrink 0.3 percent this
year, the Bundesbank on June 8 revised up its 2012 growth
forecast for Germany to 1 percent from 0.6 percent.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  is pushing for a pan-
European treaty on budget deficits to help avoid a repeat of the
spending that pushed Greece to the brink of bankruptcy. While
French President  Francois Hollande  wants policies to foster
growth, Merkel has said countries must stick to austerity
measures to ease the continent’s debt crisis.  “If the crisis has shown us one thing, it’s that
irresponsible budget policy in one euro state can endanger the
euro area as a whole,” Merkel told the lower house of
parliament in Berlin on June 29. “This has to be reined in.”  Duisburg Cuts  That also goes for Duisburg, whose  finances are stretched 
even with the growth of the port. The city, which has had a
financial deficit every year since 1993, is cutting spending to
try to balance its budget, according to a report from the
municipal government.  More than 20,000 jobs disappeared in Duisburg following
Germany’s coal and steel crisis in the 1990s as factories
closed, leading to the loss of half of the port’s cargo volumes
and pushing the  unemployment rate  up to 15.6 percent in 1998.  Krupp Stahl AG , now part of  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA) , closed its
steel plants in the Rheinhausen area of the city in 1993 after
years of protests by local workers fighting to stay in
employment. In 1987, they occupied a bridge crossing the River
Rhine in what became a symbol of Germany’s steel crisis.  The turnaround came with a focus on containers, which port
chief Staake calls “a worldwide currency.”  Containers account for 38 percent of volumes at the port
compared with 6 percent in 1998. Over the same period, the
number of people depending on Duisburger Hafen for employment
has doubled to 40,000. Of those, 21,700 relate to the city of
Duisburg, representing almost 14 percent of all jobs there.  Cargo Hub  The closure of Duisburg’s coal and steel industries in the
1990s “allowed us to become a distribution center, assemblage
point and a logistical hub, which you need given the
globalization and the development of the freight industry,”
said Udo Mueller, the head of the city’s employment agency.  Duisburg still contends with one of the highest rates of
unemployment in  Germany , with  12.8 percent  out of work in June
compared with the 6.8 percent adjusted national average, data
from the German labor agency showed. The city’s jobless rate is
down from 13.3 percent in April and it aims to reduce it to
between 11 and 12 percent in the next five years, Mueller said.  The agency forecasts that as many as 1,000 new jobs may be
created in Duisburg from the harbor expansion. Locals are also
likely to find work at a new logistics hub in the town of
Oberhausen, 15 kilometers (9.3 miles) from Duisburg, where
Staake estimates that “a few thousand” jobs may be created.  Well Connected  Duisburg is connected to the Black Sea via the Rhine and
then the Danube.  Seagoing vessels  also load cargo in Duisburg
for direct transport to ports such as London in the U.K.,
Algeciras in Spain, Casablanca in  Morocco , Piraeus in Greece,
 St. Petersburg  in Russia and all the Nordic capitals.  Railway networks  connect it with cities as far away as
Moscow, Barcelona and Istanbul. There are also train shuttle
services to the Belgian ports of Antwerp and Zeebrugge.  Hewlett-Packard, the world’s biggest personal-computer
maker, tobacco maker Philip Morris International Inc., Japanese
cosmetics maker Shiseido and  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , the world’s No.
2 health-care products maker, all have European distribution
centers at the Duisburg port.  Red Bull cans arrive in trains twice a day before making
their way in containers to global destinations.  Kuehne + Nagel
International AG (KNIN) , the world’s biggest sea-freight forwarder, has
its biggest logistics center in Duisburg.  Krones AG (KRN) , which supplies bottling and packaging equipment
to brewers and beverage companies, assembles and packages juice
and beer tanks in Duisburg for shipment to Antwerp, from where
they are distributed around the world.  “Duisburg is the center for all the goods that are
shipped,” said Cornelia Garwer-Schier, a historian at the
German Inland Waterways Museum. “We are right in the center,
the most important city on the River Rhine.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Hamburg at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen in Frankfurt at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  