-- Duke Energy Says Johnson Resigns as CEO, Rogers to Remain
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n   a n d   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n
-- 2012-07-03T20:31:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/duke-energy-says-johnson-resigns-as-ceo-rogers-will-stay.html
Duke Energy Corp. (DUK)  said Bill Johnson
won’t take over as chief executive officer as planned after its
$17.8 billion takeover of  Progress Energy Inc. (PGN)  Instead,  James Rogers  will continue as chairman and CEO of the combined
companies.  Johnson, who was Progress’s CEO, resigned after the deal
closed yesterday, the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based utility
owner said in a statement today.  Duke announced the Progress takeover in January 2011 and
said that Rogers, 64, would become executive chairman of the
company with Johnson serving as president and CEO. That plan was
scrapped under a “mutual agreement” between Johnson and the
company. Duke declined to comment further on the change.  “There’s no question that social issues play a huge role
in how these mergers unfold and this latest turn of events
simply highlights just how difficult they are to predict,” said
 Paul Patterson , a New York-based utilities analyst with Glenrock
Associates LLC.  Patterson asked Rogers during a January 2011 conference
call after the Progress purchase was announced how he, as
executive chairman, would resolve disputes with CEO Johnson.  “Basically, Paul, we’re going to arm wrestle and you know
how big Bill is and you know the outcome of that,” Rogers
replied. “I would basically say that Bill is going to be CEO
and he is going to be making the calls.”  ‘Succession Plan’  Johnson, 58, has been the chairman and CEO of Raleigh,
North Carolina-based Progress since 2007. Duke shares fell 1.7
percent to $68.69 in  New York . The takeover received its final
regulatory approval yesterday.  “We saw this merger as a succession plan for Duke,”  Angie Storozynski , a New York-based analyst for Macquarie Capital USA
Inc., said today in an interview. “Now Rogers is back in
charge.”  Duke’s credit rating may be cut from A-, the fourth-lowest
investment grade, because of the “abrupt change in executive
leadership,” Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services said today in a
statement.  The reconstituted board, which has 11 Duke members and
seven from Progress, yesterday asked Rogers to remain as
president and CEO, he said today in a telephone interview. He
didn’t participate in the deliberations, he said.  “I have a laser focus on making sure the key leaders from
Progress feel included and part of this team,” Rogers said. The
company expects to shed about 1,800 workers and about 1,200
already have accepted severance packages, he said. Some
employees whose jobs are cut may be offered other positions, he
said.  Raising Questions  “I am surprised at the announcement of  Bill Johnson ’s
resignation,” Edward S. Finley, chairman of the North Carolina
Utilities Commission, said today in an e-mailed statement.  “My understanding based on Duke and Progress
representations in our hearing was that Johnson would be CEO.”
The timing of his departure “may raise questions,” Finley
added.  The commission will ensure that customers get the benefits
Duke promised them, Finley said. That included $650 million in
savings from more efficient plant operations and a $70 million
rate cut.  Rogers became Duke’s CEO in 2006 after it purchased Cinergy
Corp., the Indiana-based utility owner he’d led, and became Duke
chairman a year later. Under the Progress merger agreement,
Rogers had a two-year contract to serve as chairman of the
combined company.  Suitable Candidates  Rogers may not want to continue running the company for
much longer than that contract, Andrew Bischof, a Chicago-based
equity analyst for  Morningstar Inc. (MORN) , said today in an interview.  “The question is how long will Rogers now stay on,” he
said. “Duke has one of the better management teams. He’d be
able to find a suitable candidate within those ranks.”
Succession will probably be a key topic during the company’s
third-quarter conference call with analysts, Bischof said.  Rogers “been doing it for a long time and he’s capable,”
said Mark Maloney, who helps manage $4.5 billion at Manulife
Asset Management US LLC in  Boston , including about $1 million of
Duke shares. “I’d be more concerned if there weren’t a CEO.”  Differing Views  Rogers and Johnson have revealed differing political views,
Maloney said. Rogers is co-chairman and lead fund-raiser for
this year’s Democratic National Convention in Charlotte, North
Carolina. Johnson is more politically conservative, Maloney
said.  Rogers has donated $71,600 in the past two years to
political campaigns, according to  OpenSecrets.org , which
compiles political contributions. His donations to individual
politicians have all been to Democrats, including President
 Barack Obama , former Virginia Governor  Tim Kaine  and Senator
 Mary Landrieu  of  Louisiana .  Progress Energy has donated $32,367 to political campaigns
during the 2012 election cycle, with 66 percent going to
Republican candidates. Duke Energy has donated $167,155 to
candidates, 53 percent for Republicans, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  With Johnson departing, Duke will need to craft a new
succession plan,  Andrew Smith , an analyst for St. Louis-based
Edward Jones & Co., said today in an interview. He rates Duke
shares at hold and owns none.  Johnson’s ability to lead may have been called into
question over his handling of repairs at Progress’s Crystal
River 3 nuclear reactor in  Florida , said Jim Warren, executive
director of  North Carolina  Waste Awareness and Reduction
Network, a utility watchdog group.  Damaged Reactor  About three months after the acquisition by Duke was
announced, Progress disclosed unexpected damage to the reactor’s
containment building while crews were repairing an earlier
crack. There were reports last year that Progress engineers
further damaged the facility by attempting to fix cracks in its
concrete shell by themselves, Warren said.  “It may have raised questions about judgment,” Warren
said in a phone interview today. “It represents a multibillion-
dollar problem that’s also very embarrassing.” The plant
remains shut.  Resolving the cost of the repairs to be covered by
insurance, shareholders and utility customers will be the
company’s third priority after cutting costs and improving
efficiency as the two companies combine operations, Rogers said
today on a conference call with analysts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Johnsson in Chicago at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tina Davis at 
 tinadavis@bloomberg.net  