-- Echo Surges $700 Million With Casino Bid Seen: Real M&A
-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 2012-07-04T09:36:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/echo-surges-700-million-with-casino-bid-seen-real-m-a.html
A potential bidding war between a
Malaysian gaming magnate and an Australian billionaire is
turning  Echo Entertainment Group Ltd. (EGP)  into the most expensive
casino target since the financial crisis.  Companies linked to Kuala Lumpur-based gambling group
 Genting Bhd. (GENT)  and its billionaire chairman Lim Kok Thay last week
sought approval to boost their combined  stake  in Echo to more
than 10 percent, mirroring a February request by  James Packer ’s
 Crown Ltd. (CWN)  Their interest already increased Echo’s  market value 
by almost A$700 million ($700 million) to A$3.3 billion, even as
 analysts  cut 2012 earnings estimates for Sydney’s only casino
operator by 40 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Echo offers Packer, who wants a casino-hotel next to Sydney
Harbor, and Genting, the only large Asian casino operator
without a stake in  Macau , the chance to profit from a surge in
Chinese gamblers through Echo’s Sydney monopoly. Crown can bid
as much as A$5 a share, 16 percent above yesterday’s close, CLSA
 Asia  Pacific Markets said. An offer at that level would value
Echo at 13 times estimated  earnings  before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, making it the priciest casino
takeover since 2006, data compiled by Bloomberg showed
yesterday.  “Genting rocking up on the register has turned the heat
up,” Nick Berry, a Sydney-based analyst at Nomura Holdings
Inc., said in a telephone interview. “Crown is more likely to
bid than not. They have to, to get the control they want.”  Spokesmen for Echo and Genting in  Australia  declined to
comment on any possible takeover. Ken Barton, Crown’s chief
financial officer, didn’t respond to a message seeking comment.  London Casino  Genting Singapore Plc (GENS)  said on June 8 it had bought a stake
in Echo, without disclosing its size. By June 20, the combined
holding by Genting  Singapore  and  Genting Hong Kong Ltd. (GENHK)  had
risen to 9.9 percent, according to Brisbane-based Echo. The two
companies are backed by  Malaysia ’s Genting Bhd. and its founding
family, a group that also owns casinos in  New York  and  London .  Gaming regulators in the states of New South Wales and
Queensland said last week that Genting had applied to increase
its holding in Echo above 10 percent. The approval is required
by Echo’s constitution. Genting  executives  may travel to
Australia this week to meet regulators, according to a person
with knowledge of the matter who declined to be identified
because the information is private.  Echo rose 0.7 percent to A$4.33 a share in Sydney today,
while Crown fell 0.1 percent to A$8.46. Genting dropped 0.7
percent to 9.42 ringgit in Kuala Lumpur.  Sydney Monopoly  Genting’s application was disclosed four months after Crown
also said it was seeking permission to raise its holding in Echo
above 10 percent.  Perpetual Ltd. (PPT) , the Sydney-based  fund manager 
with a 3.7 percent stake in Echo, won regulatory approval
yesterday to increase its stake to higher than 10 percent, at
least seven months after it applied. Crown has offered to make
an additional application to increase its stake beyond 25
percent if its first request is approved, it said today.  Echo, whose license guarantees The Star casino a monopoly
in Sydney until 2019, offers Genting the chance to tap so-called
VIP gamblers from Asia, in particular  China , who are already
traveling to Australia in growing numbers, according to Chong Lee Len, an analyst at Affin Securities Sdn. The company also
owns three other casinos in Australia.  In Macau, the most popular destination for Chinese
gamblers, high-stakes baccarat alone generated $25 billion of
 revenue , accounting for nearly three quarters of the former
Portuguese colony’s total gambling revenue of $34 billion in
2011, data from the government shows. The number of short-term
visitors to Australia from China last year rose 76 percent from
2006 to 542,000, according to the country’s statistics bureau.  ‘Meaningful Footprint’  While Genting doesn’t have a casino in Macau, Genting
Singapore’s Resorts World Sentosa is one of only two casinos in
Singapore. About  1.58 million  Chinese visited the city in 2011,
an increase of 35 percent from the year before, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “A lot of cross selling can be done,” Affin’s Chong said
by phone from  Kuala Lumpur . Genting “would like a meaningful
footprint in the Australian gaming market. It does make sense
because they know the workings of the Asian punters.”  Crown is also interested in VIPs, whose betting at its
Australian casinos reached A$371 million in the six months
through December, up 28 percent from a year before in part as a
result of a “strategy to source new players from China,”
according to a  company presentation  in February.  ‘VIP Business’  Although Crown doesn’t have a presence in Sydney, Packer,
44, has said he’s interested in building a new 350-room casino-
hotel at the Barangaroo development site near the city’s central
business district. To do that, he would need to convince Echo
and the New South  Wales ’s state government to grant a separate
permit, or take over Echo altogether.  “Genting and Crown have as much to gain as each other from
buying Echo,” said Michael Wu, a Sydney-based analyst at
Morningstar Inc. “Both have a very strong VIP business.”  Genting and Crown may not be interested in acquiring all of
Echo just to gain access to its VIP business, according to Ben Brownette, an analyst at  Commonwealth Bank of Australia  in
Sydney. Echo’s VIP revenue of  A$183 million  in the six months
through December accounted for 20 percent of the company’s A$908
million in total sales.  “You’re going to have to overpay for all of the assets to
get some kind of synergy gain in a small part of the business,”
Brownette said in a telephone interview. “It doesn’t make a
whole lot of sense.”  Casino Renovation  Crown is instead more likely to build its Echo stake to
almost 20 percent in order to influence strategy, according to
Brownette. For Genting, it makes more sense to invest in other
parts of Asia, he said.  Still, Echo has spent A$870 million on a multi-year
renovation aimed at drawing more high stakes gamblers to The
Star, and a minority stake may not grant Crown or Genting the
degree of control over Echo that they seek, according to Sacha
Krien, a Sydney-based analyst at CLSA.  “A full takeover bid is still the most likely outcome,”
Krien wrote in a June 18 note to clients. Although the analyst
expects initial bids of A$4.70 a share, or about 9 percent more
than Echo’s closing price of A$4.30 yesterday, “this would
likely be higher if a bidding war eventuates.”  A bid by Crown would be “value accretive” at as much as
A$5 per share, Krien said. At that price, a takeover of Echo
would be worth  A$4.9 billion  including net debt, or 13 times
analysts’ estimates for Echo’s Ebitda of A$380 million in the
year that ended last month, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The 21 casinos in Asia with market capitalizations of more
than $1 billion trade at a median of 9.9 times Ebitda, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Station Casinos  Echo’s multiple would also be the highest in the industry
since the $8.5 billion buyout of Station Casinos Inc. announced
in December 2006, about two years before the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. spurred the worst financial crisis since
the Great Depression. The offer for Las Vegas-based Station
Casinos was valued at 19.3 times Ebitda.  Echo may lure a bid of A$4.85 a share, “in line with
historic transaction multiples,” Nomura’s Berry wrote in a June
19 note.  “If you buy Echo, it’s not going to be cheap,” Affin’s
Chong said. Still, Genting has “the  financial muscle  to outbid
anyone. Now that they are applying to regulators for a more
meaningful stake, it does appear they are more serious about
business opportunities in Australia.”  Cash Pile  Genting Singapore alone had  S$4.8 billion  ($3.8 billion) in
cash at the end of March, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Crown will need to raise about A$2.3 billion in new equity
to fund a bid in order to avoid triggering its  debt covenants ,
according to Berry. Packer said last month he will back the sale
of Sydney-based Consolidated Media Holdings Ltd., of which he
owns half, to  Rupert Murdoch ’s News Corp. for A$1.9 billion.  Many investors are still projecting a bidding competition
even after Echo on June 15 forecast earnings for the year that
ended last month that were as much as 29 percent below analysts’
estimates. Analysts’  projections  for net income have fallen by
40 percent in the past 40 days, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Echo is also seeking to raise A$454 million selling shares
at a 27 percent discount, to repay  debt  and fund its high-roller
program amid trading conditions it described as “difficult.”  The announcement followed a campaign by Packer, which
featured full-page newspaper advertisements, to remove then-Echo
Chairman John Story. The billionaire criticized Story for Echo’s
“serious underperformance” and proposed a new director. Story
quit on June 8 and Packer withdrew his proposal.  With many traders now awaiting a takeover attempt, Echo’s
shareholders are unlikely to yield to any demands by Packer
before he buys the company, according to Nomura’s Berry.  “If I was a shareholder, I’d say: bid for the company,
then run it better,” he said. “But give me my takeover premium
first.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at   srabil@bloomberg.net . 