-- Medical Devices to Get Unique Identification Numbers in FDA Plan
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2012-07-03T16:21:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/medical-devices-to-get-unique-identification-numbers-in-fda-plan.html
Medical devices including catheters,
defibrillators, heart stents and artificial joints will carry
unique identification numbers under a plan proposed by the U.S.
 Food and Drug Administration  to improve  patient safety .  The program would apply to most medical devices and cost as
much as $68.4 million a year, according to a  pending rule
proposal  made public on the FDA’s website today. The plan would
be implemented over seven years to allow companies, doctors,
hospitals and regulators to prepare and spread out the costs.  Bar codes or other technology that identifies models and
the details of medical devices, including batch numbers, serial
numbers and expiration dates, would help regulators trace
product flaws, failures and incompatibility before the risks to
users become widespread. An FDA database would also enable the
public to look up general details about any type of medical
device, the agency said.  “By making it possible to rapidly and definitively
identify a device and key attributes that affect its safe and
effective use, the rule would reduce medical errors,” the FDA
said. The plan would help to “extract useful information from
adverse event reports, pinpoint the particular device at issue
and thereby gain a better understanding of the underlying
problems, and take appropriate, better focused, corrective
action.”  The  proposed rule , which would apply to most medical
devices distributed in the U.S., will be published in the
Federal Register within a week. Companies and the public will
have 120 days to offer input on the changes, which could be
revised based on those comments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  