-- Telecom Egypt Drops in Cairo on 2nd CEO Change in 6 Months
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2012-07-03T14:51:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/telecom-egypt-drops-in-cairo-on-2nd-ceo-change-in-6-months-1-.html
Telecom Egypt Co. (ETEL) , the Arab country’s
monopoly fixed-line phone company, fell the most in almost two
weeks after its chief executive officer became the second
official to leave the post in six months.  Shares of  the Cairo-based company dropped 1.5 percent, the
most since June 21, to 13.45 Egyptian pounds at the close in
Cairo. That valued the company at 23 billion pounds ($3.8
billion). The benchmark  EGX 30 Index (EGX30)  rose 0.8 percent.  CEO and Managing Director Tarek Aboualam will step down as
of Aug. 11, the company said in a Regulatory News Service
release today, citing “personal reasons” for the decision.
Aboualam was appointed in January to replace the retiring
Mohamed Abdel Rehim, who assumed the position in April 2011.  “Although such a move raises concerns regarding the
stability of the company’s leadership, we do not view a
significant threat to the company’s medium-term strategy, which
has not been affected by the previous management changes,”
 Sally Gerges , a telecommunications analyst at  Beltone Financial
Holding (BTFH) , said by e-mail today. She has a buy recommendation on
the stock with a share price estimate of 18.91 pounds.  The company has maintained “operational performance”
because of stability in “core positions such as chief financial
officer, chief strategy officer and the heads of retail and
wholesale units,” Gerges added.  Telecom Egypt ’s  first-quarter profit  advanced 1.7 percent
from a year earlier on growth of its wholesale business, which
generated 57 percent of revenue. The company didn’t say when it
would name a new CEO.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  