-- Temasek’s China Bank Gains Offset by Euro Crisis: Southeast Asia
-- B y   S a n a t   V a l l i k a p p e n
-- 2012-07-03T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/temasek-s-china-bank-gains-offset-by-euro-crisis-southeast-asia.html
Temasek Holdings Pte’s sale of
Chinese bank shares probably helped Singapore’s state-owned
investment company weather losses from the  European debt crisis 
in the past year.  The company sold shares in  China Construction Bank Corp. (939) 
and Bank of China Ltd. in the year ended March, profiting from
stakes held since their initial stock sales. Temasek, whose
assets rose 3.8 percent to a record S$193 billion ($153 billion)
as of March 2011, usually releases its annual report in July.  Temasek probably struggled to boost its total shareholder
return beyond the 4.6 percent in the previous year as Europe’s
turmoil and the lackluster U.S. economic recovery roiled
markets, said Melvyn Teo, director of BNP Paribas Hedge Fund
Centre at the  Singapore Management University .  Market volatility 
reached the highest level since the 2008-2009 global financial
crisis, pushing the  MSCI Asia-Pacific excluding Japan Index  9.6
percent lower in the year ended March for a region where Temasek
has about three-quarters of its assets.  “Returns won’t be earth-shattering,” Teo said. “The
long-only guys are having a tough time because the equity
markets haven’t been doing well. It was a year focused on
downside risk and people were getting more risk averse.”  Temasek’s total shareholder return, which includes changes
in the value of its assets and dividends, averaged 17 percent
since its inception in 1974, according to its  website . The
company had a negative shareholder return of 30 percent in the
year ended March 2009, then posted a 42 percent increase the
following year.  Rivaling 2008  Chief Investment Officer Tan Chong Lee said in a June 11
interview the turmoil in Europe may result in a market slump
rivaling the 2008 global financial crisis. The company also
expects smaller returns for the asset management industry on
anticipation the outlook will be difficult for years, Gregory Curl, its president and head of the Americas, said in a speech
in  Hong Kong  on June 21.  “That was managing expectations,” said Victoria Barbary,
senior researcher at the sovereign investment lab at Milan’s
Bocconi University, referring to Curl’s comments. “Temasek has
been pretty clear that they expect returns to be lower,” she
said in a phone interview from London.  Curl, once a candidate for chief executive officer of  Bank
of America Corp. (BAC) , is one of Temasek’s four presidents. The
company named Lee Theng Kiat, head of its Singapore Technologies
Telemedia Pte unit, as president and general counsel on April 1.
Boon Sim, former global head of mergers and acquisitions at
Credit Suisse Group AG, joined as president for North America on
June 1. In January, it hired John Cryan, the former chief
financial officer of UBS AG, as president for Europe.  Management Changes  The state investor has faced changes at the top since the
middle of 2009, when it parted ways with former BHP Billiton
Ltd. head Charles “Chip” Goodyear, who was going to replace  Ho Ching  as CEO over differences in strategy.  Simon Israel , also a
former Temasek executive director and president, retired from
his executive and board roles in July 2011, while former 
President Hsieh Fu Hua stepped down in October.  Temasek is  ranked  ninth among sovereign investors by the
SWF Institute, trailing behind funds including those in the
United Arab Emirates, Norway and China. The U.S. researcher
estimates Temasek’s assets at $157.2 billion.  Temasek’s returns compare with mixed performances among the
world’s biggest companies with investments in various
industries. Shares of General Electric Co. gained 0.1 percent in
the year ended March, while  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , controlled
by  Warren Buffett , the world’s third-richest man, fell 2.7
percent. In Asia, Hong Kong billionaire  Li Ka-shing ’s  Hutchison
Whampoa Ltd. (13) , with investments in ports to real estate, slumped
16 percent.  Overseas Holdings  Some of the biggest declines probably came from Temasek’s
overseas holdings, which range from consumer products to energy
companies. Hong Kong-based  Li & Fung Ltd. (494) , the world’s largest
supplier of clothes and toys to retailers, lost 11 percent in
the year ended March, while Chesapeake Energy Corp., the second-
largest U.S. gas producer, plunged 31 percent.  Barbary said she doesn’t expect Temasek to book any losses
when it releases its annual report. It raised $3.63 billion
selling stakes in the two Chinese banks in July 2011, after
shares of Construction Bank more than doubled and those of  Bank
of China  gained more than 30 percent since their initial stock
offerings more than five years before the transactions.  About two months later, Temasek paid $37 million for more
shares in Bank of China and $2.8 billion for Construction Bank
stock. That was followed by a further $2.2 billion purchase of
Construction Bank shares in November, based on Bloomberg
calculations.  ‘Portfolio Rebalancing’  Temasek said the buying and selling of the banking stakes
reflect its “portfolio rebalancing.” After the fiscal year,
the company sold $2.48 billion in Construction Bank and Bank of
China in May, less than a month after paying $2.3 billion for
shares in  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China (601398)  Ltd., the
world’s largest lender by market value.  “Although they have several high-profile trades that have
netted them handsome returns, in terms of  emerging markets , it’s
been a difficult period,” said Song Seng Wun, an economist at
CIMB Research Pte, a unit of Malaysia’s second-largest bank.
“Overall, one side may net off the other and it might just be
flat numbers.”  Singapore Assets  In Singapore, where Temasek has 32 percent of its assets,
the benchmark  Straits Times Index (FSSTI)  declined 3.1 percent in the
year ended March. The firm holds controlling stakes in half of
the 10 biggest companies by market value, including  DBS Group
Holdings Ltd. (DBS)  and  Singapore Telecommunications Ltd. (ST)  The phone
company, Southeast Asia’s biggest, was the only one among the
five that posted gains in the past fiscal year.  Temasek is also embarking on its biggest transaction in
more than a decade, selling its 67 percent stake in  PT Bank
Danamon Indonesia (BDMN)  to DBS. The Singapore bank proposed in April
to pay for the holdings with about $4.8 billion of new stock,
which will boost Temasek’s stake in DBS to 40.4 percent from
29.5 percent. Approval for that sale is pending as Indonesia
decides on new rules for foreign ownership of banks.  “Chances of the deal going through is quite high despite
the occasional noise” from Indonesia, CIMB’s Song said.  Temasek also started a property venture in June with
Khazanah Nasional Bhd., Malaysia’s state-owned investment
company, where the two will jointly develop about $9.8 billion
of real estate projects including hotels, apartments and offices
in southern Malaysia and Singapore.  Sizable Transactions  The Singapore firm expects Europe’s crisis to create
opportunities for acquisitions, Chief Investment Officer Tan
said. The company, which has a net-cash position, has the
flexibility to undertake “sizable” transactions including
those exceeding S$1 billion, he said.  Bocconi University ’s 2011 sovereign wealth funds report
showed state-backed investment companies completed a record 237
publicly reported, direct investments worth $80.9 billion, 72
percent higher than the $47.1 billion in 2010.  “The kind of investments they’re making are harder to book
value on,” Barbary said of Temasek, citing deals in real
estate, commodities and Chinese banks that have been
“volatile.” “They’re not investing for annual returns.
They’re investing for returns 5, 10, 20 years down the line.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sanat Vallikappen in Singapore at 
 vallikappen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net ;
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  