-- EON Raises Profit Forecast After Gazprom Gas Price Deal
-- B y   T i n o   A n d r e s e n   a n d   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 2012-07-03T16:53:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/eon-raises-profit-forecast-after-gazprom-gas-price-deal.html
EON AG (EOAN) ,  Germany ’s largest utility,
raised its profit forecast after reaching an agreement on
natural-gas prices with  OAO Gazprom (GAZP) , Russia’s export monopoly.  The deal will be backdated to the fourth quarter of 2010
and add about 1 billion euros ($1.25 billion) to EON’s half-year
results, the utility said today in a statement.  EON, Gazprom’s largest European Union customer, has fought
for more flexibility on its long-term contracts after losing
hundreds of millions of euros from slowing demand and
competition from spot sales of gas. Gazprom, which has raised
prices under its long-term contracts following oil, is striving
to keep more than 25 percent of the EU gas market.  “I didn’t expect an agreement so early, and I didn’t
expect such an effect,” Hasim Senguel, an analyst at DZ Bank
AG, said by phone from  Frankfurt . “The question is which
concessions EON had to make and how the new pricing mechanism
works.”  EON  shares  rose as much as 3.8 percent to 17.875 euros, the
highest intraday price since April 3, before erasing gains to
close down 0.2 percent at 17.185 euros.  EON raised its full-year outlook for earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization by 800 million
euros to a range of 10.4 billion euros to 11 billion euros,
according to its statement. The forecast for underlying net
income was increased by 1.8 billion euros to 4.1 billion euros
to 4.5 billion euros as the company benefits from lower taxes
and net interest expenses.  ‘Stability for Decades’  “The basic structure of the long-term contract hasn’t
changed,” said Christian Drepper, an EON spokesman. “Elements
with an oil linkage are still in the contract but with a
significantly reduced risk.”  Volumes weren’t revised and may even rise as the deal makes
Gazprom’s gas more competitive, the Russian company’s export
division said in an e-mailed statement. The changes mean “more
stability for decades” and the agreement removes the need for
legal proceedings, Gazprom Export said.  EON had turned to arbitration after more than a year of
talks with Gazprom, as it found itself locked into paying oil-
linked prices that rose to a level where the utility was selling
gas to its own customers at a loss.  “This agreement represents a compromise and takes into
account the current trends and developments of the natural-gas
market,”  Alexander Medvedev , a Gazprom deputy chief executive
officer and head of the export division, said in the statement.  Retroactive Discounts  Medvedev said on June 29 that the deal would be
“conceptually the same” as an earlier accord with Wingas GmbH,
Gazprom’s joint venture with German explorer Wintershall AG.  Gazprom agreed this year to change pricing, granting a
retroactive discount averaging as much as 10 percent for Wingas
and customers, including  GDF Suez (GSZ)  SA and  Eni SpA. (ENI)  As of June,
the Moscow-based company had agreed to return 20 billion rubles
($600 million) to customers under the discounts, most of which
went to Eni, Gazprom Deputy CEO Elena Vasilieva said last week.  With the EON deal settled, Gazprom remains in arbitration
and talks with Germany’s second-largest utility,  RWE AG (RWE) , over
prices for its Czech unit, and  Polskie Gornictwo Naftowe i
Gazownictwo SA (PGN) , known as PGNiG.  Gazprom plans to stick to the average discount as a
benchmark and won’t increase the weighting of spot gas in EON’s
contract, Medvedev said on June 20. A “small share” of the
price will be linked to coal, he said at the time.  ‘Acceptable Result’  EON had asked suppliers to change contract pricing to as
much as 100 percent indexation to the  spot market , where prices
had fallen amid oversupply, two people with knowledge of the
matter said in February 2011.  The terms were an “acceptable result for both sides,”
Klaus Schaefer, CEO of EON Ruhrgas, the natural-gas unit of EON,
said in a statement issued with Gazprom. “By signing today’s
agreements we are strengthening our long-standing, successful
partnership with Gazprom.”  Gazprom and EON’s existing gas supply contracts run until
2036 and cover a total volume of as much as 600 billion cubic
meters, according to the statement. EON Ruhrgas get about a
quarter of its natural gas from  Russia , while the rest comes
from five other countries, EON said May 9.  “The high losses in EON’s gas business shouldn’t continue
now,” Daniel Seidenspinner, an analyst at B. Metzler Seel Sohn
& Co. KGaA, said by phone from Frankfurt.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tino Andresen in Dusseldorf at 
 tandresen1@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  