-- EU Carbon Rises to 4-Month High as Brent Oil Advances
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a   a n d   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2012-07-03T16:59:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/eu-carbon-rises-to-4-month-high-as-brent-oil-advances.html
European Union carbon allowances
gained as oil and German-power prices strengthened and the
bloc’s regulators considered a temporary supply cut.  EU carbon for December rose 2.3 percent to close at 8.34
euros ($10.51) a metric ton, the highest since March 8, on the
ICE Futures  Europe  exchange in  London .  German electricity for 2013 increased 1 percent to 48.85
euros a megawatt-hour, according to broker data compiled by
Bloomberg. Higher prices can boost the incentive to sell
electricity forward, increasing demand for CO2 permits.  Brent crude  for July delivery increased 3.4 percent to
$100.66 a barrel as traders bet that central banks in Europe and
 China  may ease monetary policy to spur economic growth and on
speculation sanctions against  Iran  will curb supply. Oil can
impact carbon prices because it’s linked to economic output and
to cleaner-burning natural gas in Europe.  EU carbon may trade in a range of 6 to 10 euros a ton in
the three months through September as regulators consider the
temporary supply cuts, Deutsche Bank AG forecast.  “We think the risk is to the upside, not least because in
our view some member states that might ordinarily be presumed
hostile to such an initiative will look at the revenue potential
from auctioning EU allowances over 2013-2015 at higher prices
and support it,”  Mark Lewis , an analyst for the bank in Paris,
said today in an e-mailed research note.  Should other departments within the EU commission in
Brussels object to the climate unit’s supply plan, carbon prices
may fall, Lewis said.  “The market has rallied over the last month in the
expectation that a reasonably aggressive proposal will be
forthcoming in the third quarter that can then be implemented by
the end of the fourth quarter,” he said.  United Nations Certified Emission Reduction credits for
December rose 2.2 percent to close at 4.15 euros.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net ;
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  