-- The ECB Should Cut Rates, Then Go Further
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-07-03T22:30:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/europe-s-central-bank-should-cut-rates-then-go-further.html
Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
expect the  European Central Bank  to cut interest rates after the
ECB’s policy-making board meets Thursday. We hope this  forecast 
is right -- and that the ECB doesn’t stop there.  Most of those in the survey predicted that the bank’s
benchmark rate would fall 0.25 percentage point to 0.75 percent,
a new low. The forecast sounds right.  Europe ’s economy isn’t
improving. The average  unemployment  rate in the euro area rose
to a new high of 11.1 percent in May, according to figures
released this week. With public debt already too high, the scope
for fiscal stimulus in the worst-hit economies is zero. That
leaves monetary policy.  Last week’s summit of European Union leaders finally made
progress in coordinating a joint response to the financial
crisis. Markets greeted the new moves with enthusiasm. The cost
of Spanish and Italian government borrowing fell from
unsustainable highs, and the euro gained ground. The ECB will
want to keep up the momentum by following political advances
with new monetary action, as it has in the past.  In truth, though, a further cut in  interest rates  is only
the beginning of what the EU needs. At last week’s summit, euro-
area governments agreed in principle to extend support to
distressed banks directly, rather than through their
governments. Markets had judged an earlier bank-support plan for
 Spain  no good because it would add to Spain’s public debt and
push private claims down the payment line in the event of
default. The promise to help banks directly, together with an
assurance that the planned support for Spain wouldn’t skip ahead
of earlier claims, was what markets wanted to hear.  The new bank-rescue plan, however, depends on progress in
moving toward a European “banking union” with a single
supervisor and maybe joint arrangements for deposit insurance
and bank resolution. Governments have pledged to work on this,
but the details aren’t clear. The best approach would be to
lodge the new powers in the ECB, and then draw the boundary of
the union so it corresponds with membership of the euro area.  This would greatly enlarge the ECB’s role -- and that’s the
idea. Too much diffusion of authority has delayed the EU’s
response to the crisis. As quickly as possible, the EU ought to
simplify its financial governance and consolidate its powers to
intervene in an emergency. The ECB is the right vehicle.  There has been less progress on another issue involving the
ECB: quantitative easing, in which the central bank prints money
to buy government debt. The ECB continues to hold back from this
measure, arguing that its rules forbid direct lending to
governments.  The rules or their interpretation should be changed to give
the ECB the same tools as the  Federal Reserve  and the  Bank of
England , both of which have signaled a willingness to buy more
bonds if the recovery slackens. At the EU summit, leaders agreed
to let the European Stability Mechanism, the new permanent
rescue fund, intervene more flexibly in debt markets so that
borrowing costs in Spain and  Italy  could be capped. A good idea
-- except that the 500 billion euros ($630 billion) available to
the ESM is far too small to be a credible bulwark. The ECB needs
to stand behind the rescue fund with the bank’s effectively
unlimited spending power, or else buy debt itself.  Thursday’s ECB meeting will probably end with a cut in
interest rates, which is surely warranted on its own terms.
Containing this crisis, though, will require bolder steps --
steps that  Mario Draghi , the central bank’s chief, will need
political backing to take. The sooner Europe’s leaders agree to
them, the better.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  Alexander Hamilton’s lessons
for the euro ;  Margaret Carlson  on  Hillary Clinton ’s  search for
inner peace ; Clive Crook on last week’s  botched euro summit ;
John Shaw on U.S.  socialists and their patriotic songs .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 