-- Euro Area Bought Some Time in Staving Off Breakup: Rogoff
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   S u s a n   L i
-- 2012-07-03T03:12:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/euro-area-bought-some-time-in-staving-off-breakup-rogoff-says.html
European leaders probably bought “a
little bit of time” in staving off a euro-area breakup after
last week’s summit even as the region remains a long way from
stabilization, Harvard University Professor  Kenneth Rogoff  said.  Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras asked European leaders
last week to loosen austerity measures tied to 240 billion euros
($303 billion) in financial aid from international donors for
his country.  Greece  will struggle to meet its targets and still
probably default, Rogoff said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television today.  European Union leaders at a June 28-29 summit agreed to
loosen bailout rules, lay the foundations for a banking union
and break the link between sovereign and banking debt through
the direct recapitalization of lenders. Euro-area officials,
fighting to prevent the sovereign-debt crisis from spreading,
also took measures to bolster growth amid a global slowdown.  “They are going to continue to do more and more radical
measures to stand still,” Rogoff said. “We’re very, very far
from a long-term vision. It’s a long difficult path, still.
We’re a long ways from stabilization.”  Leaders approved a 120 billion-euro plan to promote growth
in the 27-nation bloc that includes a capital boost for the
 European Investment Bank .  Federal Reserve policy makers have said they are ready to
take more steps should the U.S. expansion slacken. Rogoff said
that while the  U.S. economy  is “slowing a bit,” it would be
premature to say it’s headed back into a recession.  “Clearly this is not an economy in galloping growth that’s
creating 300,000 or 400,000 net new jobs a month that we really
need to start digging our way out of this,” he said. “The U.S.,
though not falling into immediate recession, is not an engine of
growth that’s going to pull us out, with  China  slowing and
 Europe  in recession.”  China is going through a “delicate political transition”
that makes it harder to deal with its economic problems, he said.  “I still expect sometime over the next few years to see a
significant slowdown in China’s rate of growth that may prove
very difficult to handle, especially for a world that’s just not
expecting it,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shamim Adam in Melbourne at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Li in  Hong Kong  at 
 sli31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shamim Adam in Melbourne at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net  