-- European Stocks Rise for a Third Day; Peugeot Shares Gain
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2012-07-03T16:03:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/european-stock-futures-rise-barclays-may-move-on-diamond.html
European stocks climbed, posting
their biggest three-day rally this year, amid optimism central
banks will add to stimulus measures and as a report showed that
U.S. factory orders rebounded in May.  PSA Peugeot Citroen added 3.7 percent as a union official
said the carmaker will eliminate more jobs this year than it had
announced.  Aberdeen Asset Management Plc (ADN)  slid 3.7 percent as
 Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  was said to be selling a 7 percent stake
in Scotland’s largest money manager.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  slid 0.8
percent after saying that its chief operating officer instructed
the bank’s rate setters to lower their submissions for Libor.  The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index climbed 1 percent to 257.39 at
the close, completing a three-day gain of 5.2 percent, the
gauge’s biggest since November. The benchmark measure has
 rallied 10 percent from this year’s low  on June 4 as euro-area
leaders opened the door to directly recapitalizing lenders using
the European Stability Mechanism, the currency zone’s permanent
bailout fund.  “It looks like we’re entering a quieter period,” said
Konstantin Giantiroglou, head of investment advisory at Neue
Aargauer Bank AG in Brugg,  Switzerland . “The market shrugged
off yesterday’s disappointing U.S. economic data. Providing we
don’t encounter any serious negative news, the current mood may
be able to support markets for a while.”  National Benchmarks  National benchmark indexes gained in every western- European (SXXP) 
market.  France ’s CAC 40 advanced 1 percent and the U.K.’s FTSE
100 increased 0.8 percent.  Germany ’s DAX rose 1.3 percent.  The  European Central Bank  and the  Bank of England  will
announce interest-rate decisions on July 5. ECB officials will
lower their  benchmark rate  by 25 basis points to a record low
0.75 percent, according to the  median forecast  in a Bloomberg
survey of 62 economists. Five predicted a cut of 50 basis points
and 11 foresaw no change.  The People’s Bank of  China  may cut  lenders’ reserve
requirements  to increase liquidity in the banking system,
according to a commentary on the front page of today’s China
Securities Journal, which is published by the official Xinhua
News Agency. The central bank announced a cut to  interest rates 
on June 7, a day after the newspaper published a commentary
urging the move.  Factory Orders  In the U.S., a Commerce Department report showed that
 orders to factories  in the world’s largest economy increased 0.7
percent in May. That exceeded the  median forecast  of 52
economists in a Bloomberg News survey for a 0.1 percent gain.
The measure dropped for two consecutive months in March and
April for the first time in more than three years.  U.K. exporters told the British Chambers of Commerce that
their overseas sales improved in the second quarter, suggesting
the economy performed better than forecast and avoided a  further
contraction  in the second quarter.  The balance of manufacturers experiencing higher export
deliveries rose to 31 percent, the most since 2010. The figure
for services companies reached 24 percent, the highest since the
third quarter of 2007.  Peugeot climbed 3.7 percent to 7.72 euros as  Europe’s
second-biggest carmaker  plans to eliminate as much as 10 percent
of its French workforce to reduce operational costs, a union
official said. Peugeot may discuss its plans for the
reorganization at its next works council meeting on July 12.  Delta Lloyd  Delta Lloyd NV (DL)  surged 4.5 percent to 11.57 euros, its
highest price in seven weeks. The Dutch insurer spun off from
Aviva Plc said the solvency of its IGD Group unit will increase
at least 15 percentage points and that of its Delta Lloyd
Levensverzekering NV business will rise at least 30 percentage
points.  Vedanta Resources Plc (VED)  soared 6.1 percent to 961 pence.
Morgan Stanley resumed its overweight recommendation for the
copper producer, the equivalent of a buy rating. The brokerage
added that limited supply and resilient demand will support
prices of copper,  iron ore  and gold.  Swiss Re Ltd. rose 1.7 percent to 61.10 Swiss francs after
BlackRock Inc. said it will buy Private Equity Partners AG from
 the world’s second-biggest reinsurer  and integrate the business
with its own fund-of-funds division.  Argan (ARG)  SA jumped 9.7 percent to 10.86 euros after the French
warehouse owner said second-quarter rental income climbed 15
percent to 12.4 million euros ($15.6 million). The company
increased  its growth target  for rental income in 2012 to 18
percent from 16 percent.  PostNL, Aberdeen  PostNL NV (PNL)  gained 5.6 percent to 3.47 euros. The company
will postpone the reorganization of its letter-delivery
business, saying it will only close two offices this year.  Aberdeen Asset Management retreated 3.7 percent to 255
pence as two people with knowledge of the transaction said that
Credit Suisse was selling the stake for as much as 205 million
pounds ($322 million).  Switzerland’s second-largest lender  will
sell as many as 80.4 million Aberdeen shares for a discount of
as much as 7.4 percent to the closing price yesterday, said the
people, who asked not to be identified because the process is
private.  Barclays dropped 0.8 percent to 167.05 pence after earlier
climbing as much as 4.8 percent and sliding as much as 4.4
percent.  Bob Diamond  stepped down today as chief executive
officer and Jerry Del Missier quit as COO, the London-based
lender said. Chairman Marcus Agius will also leave once he has
found a replacement for Diamond.  Terna SpA and  Snam SpA (SRG)  dropped 1.5 percent to 2.80 euros
and 2.4 percent to 3.45 euros, respectively. The Italian
government is considering freezing the tariffs for electricity,
gas, water and transport until 2013 to contain costs for
citizens and businesses, daily la Repubblica reported.  The volume of shares changing hands in companies listed on
the gauge was 7.6 percent lower than the average of the last 30
days, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  