-- Europe’s Abysmal Crisis Management
-- B y   C l i v e   C r o o k
-- 2012-07-03T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/europe-s-abysmal-crisis-management.html
I don’t share financial markets’
enthusiasm for the European Union’s latest moves to stabilize
the euro area, and I don’t expect the thrill to last long. Sure,
last week’s summit made some progress: It wasn’t quite stasis as
usual. Yet one thing hasn’t changed: EU governments keep making
the same basic error.  Their signature mistake is to conflate three distinct
tasks, each requiring action with different degrees of urgency.
You know the saying, first things first? I’m told it’s useful in
emergencies. You know, before clearing wreckage from the
highway, get the injured out of the cars, that sort of idea.  The pile-up in the euro area may be complicated, but the
right sequence for dealing with it isn’t. First, stem the crisis
of confidence that is pushing otherwise solvent governments into
insolvency. Second, make repairs to the fiscal and financial
system so the chances of another crisis are reduced. Third,
address the underlying causes of the euro area’s difficulties --
namely, the single currency itself.  The EU leaders keep trying to link all three together,
making it likely they will fail three times over.  Total Commitment  The key to Step 1 is scale of commitment. When confidence
in a borrower collapses and the authorities want to convince
markets that default won’t happen, they must quickly pledge to
do whatever it takes. Unlimited backing is often cheapest in the
end because it’s credible. Here, last week’s summit failed
completely: It brought no new resources to the task.  Investors took heart when leaders said the European
Stability Mechanism might intervene more flexibly to support
Spanish and Italian bonds. The ESM can already do this, so it’s
unclear what changed.  Italy ’s prime minister,  Mario Monti ,
wanted the ESM to put an explicit ceiling on Italy’s borrowing
costs, promising to intervene as necessary to stop a breach.
That would have been new, but the idea was rejected.  Granted, in another way the summit was an advance, exacting
a concession by  Germany ’s leader,  Angela Merkel . Governments
said the ESM could support troubled banks directly rather than
by lending to governments, thereby lowering the debt burden of
distressed sovereign borrowers. Markets rightly liked this idea.
Unfortunately, though, the promise depends on a deal to
consolidate EU bank supervision. In itself, that’s also a good
idea, but hammering out the details will take months.  Worst of all, the ESM was given no new money to carry out
its extra duties. The ESM has just 500 billion euros ($630
billion), much of it already allotted. A far larger sum, 2
trillion euros and up, would be needed to do what Monti wanted
and back a commitment to cap  interest rates  for distressed euro-
area governments.  Ideally, the EU ought to pledge unlimited resources to the
job. The  European Central Bank  can print as many euros as it
needs. Economists expect the bank to cut interest rates
tomorrow, and with euro-area unemployment still rising, it
should. But Europe needs its central bank to do far more than
that. The bank must stand behind an open-ended ESM or act as a
lender of last resort in its own right.  Germany and some other northern European countries keep
insisting that commitment is too dangerous. If the ECB were to
lend without limit to  Spain  and Italy, why would their
governments curb their borrowing now or in the future?  New Rules  Good question, but answering it is Step 2. If the ECB
becomes a true lender of last resort, as bringing this emergency
under control is going to require, new fiscal rules will be
needed. Germany is right about this. Designing new rules and
writing them into EU law will take time, however, and time to
contain this crisis is running out.  Merkel thinks that pressure, not time, is what’s needed.
Europe requires a recession, high unemployment and the threat of
outright collapse to write effective new rules. Otherwise,
southern Europe will spend like there’s no tomorrow. Well, Spain
ran a  budget surplus  before the crisis hit, and Italy curbed its
deficit before the markets threatened imminent disaster. Anyway,
if you are sure your partners are incompetent wastrels, why
partner with them in the first place? If Germany is right, how
can closer political union -- which Merkel says she wants --
ever work?  First things first. Stabilize the EU economy now. Put the
discussion of new fiscal rules -- Step 2 -- on a separate track.
If Merkel’s fears come true and that effort gets nowhere,
Germany and its friends can roll back the ECB’s new powers or
rethink other aspects of EU integration.  All being well, that will leave Step 3: learning to live
with the single currency. This is  Europe ’s hardest task, and the
one that will take the longest.  A prosperous euro economy demands structural reform country
by country, so that wage-setting arrangements don’t wreck
competitiveness by driving labor costs apart. It demands a
judicious measure of fiscal and hence political integration --
quite distinct from the new rules in Step 2 to limit national
deficits and  debts  -- so that cyclical divergences call forth
offsetting fiscal transfers. It demands far more intra-EU
migration, one of the most potent remedies for structural
unemployment.  Europe should have acted on this agenda before the euro was
even  created  -- the agenda that it subsequently neglected during
the euro’s first decade. If the EU is to succeed and the single
currency is to survive, Europe’s leaders will have to take up
these ideas with vigor over the coming years.  First, though, they must stem this crisis. The rest will be
academic unless Europe’s leaders meet the immediate challenge --
and so far they show little sign of it.  (Clive Crook is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  Alexander Hamilton’s lessons
for the euro  and on why the European Central Bank should assume
a much larger role in  resolving the euro-area crisis ;  Margaret
Carlson  on  Hillary Clinton ’s  search for inner peace ; John Shaw
on U.S.  socialists and their patriotic songs .  To contact the writer of this article:
Clive Crook at  clive.crook@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net  