-- Ex-Goldman Partner Chan Named Dymon CEO as Hedge Fund Grows
-- B y   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i
-- 2012-07-03T01:48:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/ex-goldman-partner-chan-named-dymon-ceo-as-hedge-fund-grows-1-.html
Dymon  Asia  Capital ( Singapore ) Pte,
the best-performing large hedge fund in Asia in 2011, hired a
former head of macro trading at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  as
chief executive officer, strengthening its interest-rate
trading.  David Chan, 41, will also be a partner of Singapore-based
Dymon, said founder Danny Yong. Chan, who headed macro trading
at Goldman in Asia, will focus on managing the investment team,
Yong said. The appointment is subject to regulators’ approval.  Yong is beefing up the firm’s management so he can focus on
trading after assets expanded to $2.85 billion in February,
including $2.5 billion in Dymon’s main macro fund. Dymon hired
Jay Luo, former head of SAC Capital Advisors LP’s Asia-Pacific
operations, as president and a partner in June.  “Right now, the fund’s investments are skewed towards
foreign exchange, where a large part of our risk and our
revenues are derived,” said Yong. “David’s strong foundation
in Asian interest-rate trading, as well as his track record in
building world-class trading businesses, will be hugely
complementary to our existing business and will help us achieve
our goal of becoming Asia’s premier macro hedge fund manager.”  Dymon Asia Macro Fund -- which seeks to profit from
macroeconomic trends by wagering on bonds, currencies, stocks
and commodities -- rose 3 percent in May, bringing its year-to-
May return to 1 percent, Yong said. That compares with the 0.8
percent gain in the period by a Eurekahedge Pte index that
tracks similar funds in Asia.  Vision, Philosophy  “I share the same vision and philosophy of running a
trading business as Danny,” said Chan, who was a partner and
most recently headed Goldman’s Asia-Pacific foreign exchange
trading in  Hong Kong  and macro trading for the region excluding
 Japan . “I am confident that I would be able to leverage my
trading and management experience to add to the business.”  In addition to the Hong Kong and Singapore offices of
Goldman Sachs, Chan also set up branches in  China ,  India  and
 South Korea  for the firm’s Asia macro businesses, Yong said.  Chan hired Yong to join Goldman Sachs’s macro trading desk
in February 2000 where the two worked together in Hong Kong and
 Tokyo  for six years, according to Yong.  “David is one of the best traders and leaders I have been
associated with,” said Bank of America Corp.’s Co-Chief
Operating Officer Thomas K. Montag, who formerly worked with
Chan at Goldman Sachs in Asia. “As a trader he was always one
of the highest return on risk people I knew.”  Dymon’s macro fund in 2011 had a more than 20 percent
return, the most in Asia among hedge funds with assets of more
than $1 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It
started trading in August 2008 with $113 million of initial
capital from  Paul Tudor Jones ’s Tudor Investment Corp., the
Greenwich Connecticut-based hedge fund, as well as partners and
employees, according to the firm.  Upgrading Capabilities  The fund started accepting money from outside investors in
August 2009 after it separated from  Abax Global Capital Ltd. ,
the asset manager part-owned by Morgan Stanley.  In June, the fund gave back some of the gains as the
bearish bets on Australia and  Europe  have not continued to play
out, said Yong. The Eurekahedge Hedge Fund Index returned 0.6
percent in June, according to preliminary figures.  “We owe it to our investors to continually upgrade our
platform from an investing, risk management as well as
operational perspective,” said Yong. “The fund is currently
hard closed and we do not have plans to re-open until we
continue to deliver the same level of performance our investors
expect.”  Chan began his career at Goldman Sachs in April 1998 on the
swaps desk as a senior trader running the regional Asia rates
portfolio in Hong Kong, according to Dymon. He started out at
Citigroup Inc. as a bond trader in 1992 in the city after
graduating from the  Chinese University  of Hong Kong with a
bachelor’s degree in business administration, Dymon said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tomoko Yamazaki in Singapore at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  