-- Ex-JPMorgan CIO Trader Olson Joins Citigroup Credit Unit
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n   a n d   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 2012-07-03T20:53:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/ex-jpmorgan-cio-trader-olson-joins-citigroup-credit-unit.html
David Olson, the former head of
credit trading for  JPMorgan (JPM)  Chase & Co.’s chief investment
office in North America, joined  Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s bond-trading
unit, according to people familiar with the matter.  Olson started yesterday and reports to  David Cohen , head of
investment-grade bond trading for New York-based Citigroup in
North America, according to the people, who asked not to be
named because the matter isn’t public. He will run the hybrids
and preferred securities trading desk.  Olson, a former U.S. Navy nuclear submarine pilot, left
JPMorgan in December, about five months before the bank
disclosed at least $2 billion in losses from the CIO’s London
operation. JPMorgan Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  pushed
the unit to seek profits by speculating on higher-yield assets
such as  credit derivatives  before the bets soured, according to
executives who used to work at the company. Olson’s former
colleague in London, Bruno Iksil, is known as the London Whale
because his bets were so large.  In 2008, JPMorgan’s CIO lost $1 billion on securities tied
to  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac  when the government-backed
mortgage agencies were put into conservatorship. Olson has said
the only reason he wasn’t fired at the time was because Dimon
had been “intimately familiar with those positions.”  Quarterly Estimate  JPMorgan, the biggest U.S. bank, may announce a
$3.46 billion second-quarter profit on July 13, according to the
 average estimate  of 11 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Dimon
will lead a two-hour conference call with analysts to discuss
the trading loss, which he said May 10 may be $3 billion or
more. Analysts including Charles Peabody at Portales Partners
LLC in New York estimate the loss at about $5 billion.  Olson joins Citigroup’s credit-trading team as the firm
grapples with the European sovereign debt crisis. Chief
Executive Officer Vikram Pandit shook up the unit in January,
causing senior debt traders Rohit Bansal and Chris Yanney to
leave the bank, the third-biggest in the U.S.  The average daily trading volume for investment-grade bonds
in June fell 7 percent from a year earlier,  David Trone , a JMP
Securities LLC analyst, told clients in a July 2 note.  “Credit trends stabilized during the month but have
deteriorated since the end of 1Q12,” according to Trone, who
has a  sell rating  on Citigroup shares. The profits and share
prices of Wall Street firms will fall over the rest of year
“due to a confluence of material events, both at home and
abroad, led by an increasingly troublesome situation in
Europe,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 