-- Mexican Bond Yields Touch Record Low on Central Bank Speculation
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2012-07-03T23:18:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/mexican-bond-yields-touch-record-low-on-central-bank-speculation.html
Mexico ’s peso bond yields touched a
record low on speculation global policy makers will coordinate
efforts to bolster economic growth, adding to appetite for
higher-yielding assets.  The yield on Mexican local-currency bonds due in 2024
dropped five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to a record
low 5.43 percent at 4 p.m. in Mexico City, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg on a closing basis. The price increased
0.51 centavo to 141.36 centavos per peso. The currency rose 0.1
percent to 13.3311 per  U.S. dollar .  “Whenever there is a surge in risk appetite, investors
will try to capitalize and Mexico is one of the targets,” Italo Lombardi, an economist at Standard Chartered Bank, said by phone
from New York. “This is the tone today in the markets.”  Local-currency Mexican bonds rallied last month after the
U.S. Federal Reserve extended a program to cap longer-term
 interest rates .  Economists predict the  European Central Bank  will cut
borrowing costs on July 5 to help contain the sovereign-debt
crisis.  China  may cut lenders’ reserve requirements to boost
liquidity in the banking system, according to commentary on the
front page of today’s China Securities Journal, which is
published by state-run Xinhua News Agency.  Mexico’s currency posted its best weekly performance since
December in the five days through June 29 before the July 1
presidential election.  Pena Nieto Pledges  Enrique Pena Nieto of the  Institutional Revolutionary
Party , who has claimed victory, pledged during the campaign to
support legislation making it easier to hire and fire workers,
drawing more people into the formal economy. He also said he
favors expanding private investment in the oil industry,
loosening state-controlled Petroleos Mexicanos’s grip.  His campaign estimated yesterday that the PRI-led alliance
would lack a majority in the lower house of congress, making it
harder for legislative changes.  Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador , the Democratic Revolution
Party candidate, said today in a televised statement that a full
recount is needed for the July 1 national election because the
contest wasn’t “free or clean.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  