-- Mexico Has No Inflation Concerns ‘Whatsoever,’ Meade Says
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n   a n d   K e n   F i r e m a n
-- 2012-07-03T22:03:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/mexico-has-no-inflation-concerns-whatsoever-meade-says.html
Mexico ’s finance minister said his
government has no concerns about inflation “whatsoever” even
after the pace of consumer-price increases exceeded the
government’s target range in the first half of June.  Mexico’s inflation expectations are “very well-anchored”
in the short, medium and long-term and core inflation is very
well-behaved, Finance Minister Jose Antonio Meade said in an
interview today in Mexico City.  Prices jumped 4.3 percent in the 12 months through mid-
June, leading economists to raise their year-end inflation
forecast to 3.81 percent in a survey by the central bank
published July 2. A month earlier analysts were forecasting
inflation of 3.65 percent. The central bank targets inflation of
3 percent, plus or minus 1 percentage point.  Mexico’s economy grew 4.6 percent in the first three months
from the year earlier, the fastest pace in six quarters, fueling
demand that is adding to inflation pressures. A 9.5 percent
tumble by the peso against the dollar in May, the worst
performance among major currencies tracked by Bloomberg, is also
weighing on the cost of imports.  “We have no inflationary concerns whatsoever,” Meade
said. The pass-through to inflation from the peso’s recent
weakness “has been very minor if at all.”  Meade said that he has no plan to change his 3.5 percent
2012 growth forecast at this time. While he still sees the
possibility of surprises pushing growth “marginally higher”
than estimated, he doesn’t see any possibility of it reaching
4.25 percent, which is the upper limit of the central bank’s
forecast range from May 16.  Pemex Budget  Meade said that investment in state-owned oil company
 Petroleos Mexicanos  equivalent to 2 percent of gross domestic
product would be a “reasonable amount” for next year’s budget.  In addition, it would be a “good signal” if Mexico moved
toward a balanced budget next year from this year’s deficit of
0.4 percent of GDP, he said. The government has until Dec. 15 to
present the 2013 budget, later than the usual Sept. 8 deadline
because a new president will replace  Felipe Calderon  on Dec. 1,
Meade said. Preliminary results show Enrique Pena Nieto of the
opposition  Institutional Revolutionary Party  won the July 1
election.  Meade said that it is too early to say whether he would
stay on if asked as finance minister in the upcoming
administration.  Sergio Luna, chief economist for Citigroup Inc.’s Banamex
unit, said Meade could potentially stay on at his post.  While Meade didn’t rule out the possibility, the finance
minister said he hadn’t spoken to Pena Nieto’s team and that his
“central scenario” is that he would leave government.  Still, “at this stage it’s difficult to rule out
anything,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net ;
Ken Fireman at 
 kfireman1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 