-- Formula 1 Test Driver Maria de Villota Conscious After Crash
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2012-07-03T16:11:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/f-1-s-de-villota-has-life-threatening-injuries-after-crash-1-.html
Formula One test driver Maria de
Villota is conscious after sustaining what ambulance staff
called “life-threatening” injuries in a collision with a team
truck.  De Villota, 32, was taken to Addenbrooke’s Hospital in
Cambridge,  England , after the accident at 9.15 a.m. local time
today.  “She has been receiving the best medical attention
possible at the hospital,” her  Marussia team  said in a
statement. “Maria is conscious and medical assessments are
ongoing.”  The driver was testing the team’s MR-01 racing car for the
first time at Duxford Airfield near Cambridge. The car slowed
after a test run and then accelerated into the truck, the
British Broadcasting Corp. reported.  De Villota, a Spaniard, was treated by paramedics at the
scene and taken to the hospital, East of England Ambulance
Service spokesman Gary Sanderson  said in an earlier statement ,
describing the injuries as “life threatening.”  She completed 300 kilometers (186 miles) of testing for the
Lotus Renault team last year and was hired by Marussia in March.
A woman driver hasn’t competed in the most-watched motor sport
since 1992.  The daughter of a racing driver, De Villota has competed in
series including the World Touring Car Championship since 2001,
 according to her website . In 2004, she drove a Ferrari Modena
sports car at the 24 Hours of Daytona.  Russian sports carmaker Marussia Motors acquired a stake in
the Banbury, England-based team, formerly known as Virgin
Racing, from  Lloyds Banking Group’s private equity arm LDC  in
November 2010. LDC said at the time it was retaining an
undisclosed stake.  Marussia hasn’t scored a point after eight of 20 Formula
One races this season. The next event is the July 8 British
Grand Prix at Silverstone, England.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff in  Madrid   at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  