-- Far East Horizon CEO Seeks Overseas Debt to Fund Chinese Schools
-- B y   W e n d y   M o c k
-- 2012-07-03T01:39:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/far-east-horizon-ceo-seeks-overseas-debt-to-fund-chinese-schools.html
Far East Horizon Ltd. (3360) , the financing
unit of state-owned Sinochem Group Co., plans to raise more debt
overseas to help fund Chinese high schools and colleges.  The company will sell bonds under its $1 billion medium-
term note program and seek new loans offshore to help fund
equipment leasing to the education sector, Chief Executive
Officer Kong Fanxing said in an interview. Income from education
more than doubled in 2011 to $103 million and made up about 14
percent of business at Far East Horizon,  China ’s largest non-
bank financial leasing firm by asset value, he said.  “Diversity in our debt portfolio is key and we aim to
always have a mix of onshore and offshore loans and bonds,
including some Dim Sum loans,” Kong said, referring to yuan-
denominated borrowings in  Hong Kong . “Last year we lowered our
funding cost by increasing cheaper overseas borrowings.”  A rising middle class in the world’s most populous nation
is increasing demand for better quality education. Under a  10-
year national education plan  through to 2020, China is targeting
an increase in the senior high school enrollment rate to 90
percent, and the higher education enrollment rate to 40 percent.
Some 6.8 million college students will graduate in China this
summer, according to Ministry of Education estimates.  Far East Horizon signed a $200 million facility in May with
its first borrowing in  Taiwan ’s syndicated loan market,
according to Kong. “The conclusion of this agreement is a
successful case whereby a company affiliated with a Chinese
state-owned enterprise has sought syndicated financing from
banks in Taiwan,” he said.  U.S. Bond  That loan pays a margin of 320 basis points more than the
London interbank offered rate, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Far East Horizon agreed to pay 110 percent of the
People’s Bank of China rate for a 550 million  yuan  ($86.6
million) three-year loan signed in March. The PBOC’s best
lending rate for one- to three-year money is 6.4 percent.  Far East Horizon plans to issue more bonds this year “at
the right time” under its medium-term note program established
in April, Kong said. The program is led by Citigroup Inc. and
HSBC Holdings Plc, according to an April 5 company statement.  The company will also seek loans in Hong Kong and Taiwan,
while considering a debut in the U.S debt markets, he said.  About 16 percent of Far East Horizon’s current financing,
excluding a share placement earlier this year, comes from
sources offshore, Kong said. The company has the equivalent of
$1.24 billion in  bonds and loans  maturing by the end of 2016,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Our top focus is on  Asia ,” Kong said. “But the U.S. is
one of the biggest  capital markets  in the world and you can’t
escape that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wendy Mock in Hong Kong at 
 wmock3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  