-- Fed Officials Signal Tighter Rules on Bank-Sponsored Money Funds
-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 2012-07-03T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/fed-officials-signal-tighter-rules-on-bank-sponsored-money-funds.html
Federal Reserve officials spoke out
twice in the past month to send a signal to money-market funds
resisting tighter U.S. regulation. The message: New rules are
coming, one way or another.  The officials -- Governor  Daniel Tarullo  and Bank of Boston
President  Eric Rosengren  -- said the Fed could take steps to
limit banks’ reliance on money funds as a source of short-term
cash.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission has been
deadlocked for months over proposed rules that would require the
$2.5 trillion money-fund sector to float share prices or hold
more capital, measures that could make funds less attractive to
investors.  The comments were “an effort to tell the industry to work
with the SEC because, ‘If they don’t get you, we can,’” said
Karen Shaw Petrou, a managing partner at Federal Financial
Analytics, a Washington research firm.  In a speech in the Netherlands, Rosengren said the Fed’s
stress tests should be expanded to include money funds in their
calculations.  “Based on the historical experience of their money-market
funds, the historical experience of similar funds, and their
money-market funds’ exposures, sponsors could calculate the
likely capital support needed from the organization in a stress
scenario,” he told the Conference on Post-Crisis Banking on
June 29.  Rosengren’s comments followed remarks from Tarullo on June
12 supporting the SEC’s proposals. At the same time, he said
regulators have other options if the SEC is unable to impose a
rule.  ‘Second Best’  “In the absence of such action, there are several second-
best alternatives,” Tarullo said. One option is that bank
“supervisors consider setting new limits on banks’ reliance on
funding provided by money-market funds.”  The signals are not limited to the U.S.  Paul Tucker , deputy
governor of the  Bank of England , has said European regulators
might take similar action to limit their banks’ exposure to U.S.
money funds if the SEC doesn’t act.  The SEC’s five commissioners have received a 337-page staff
proposal that would offer funds a choice of either floating the
share price or holding more capital. An SEC vote could come as
soon as this month to proceed on the rule by asking for public
input.  Fed spokeswoman  Barbara Hagenbaugh  and  John Nester , an SEC
spokesman, declined to comment.  Funds Vulnerable  SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  and other regulators have
repeatedly said that money-market funds are vulnerable to runs
during times of crisis when investors rush to redeem shares.
They cite the example of the $62.5 billion Reserve Primary Fund,
which collapsed in September 2008, contributing to a system-wide
credit freeze. The U.S. Treasury Department stepped in to
guarantee the funds and stabilize the system.  In 2010, the SEC increased liquidity requirements for the
funds as a stopgap measure to prevent further bailouts. All the
same, money-market funds can and do lose money, forcing their
sponsors to make up the difference. The biggest U.S. money funds
are sponsored by  Fidelity Investments , Vanguard Group Inc. and
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , with assets of more than $100 billion
each.  Schapiro told the Senate Banking Committee on June 22 that
the agency has found at least 300 examples of money-fund
sponsors stepping in to provide or line up capital support to
prevent the funds’ share price from falling below the guaranteed
$1, called “breaking the buck.” Three of those instances, she
said, happened after the SEC imposed the 2010 liquidity rules.  ‘Capital Drain’  There has been a “pattern of support” for mutual funds by
the banks that sponsor them, “without an explicit recognition
that such funds can be a capital drain” on the banks during
times of stress, Rosengren said in his speech in Amsterdam.  Consumers and retail investors often confuse money-market
funds with federally insured banking products, such as savings
and checking accounts. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told the
Senate Banking Committee in March that some investors turn to
money funds “because they think they’re absolutely a hundred
percent safe,” which is “not true.”  Bernanke and Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  have
also warned of risks posed by the banking sector’s reliance on
short-term funding in the form of money-market cash and
repurchase transactions. Money-market funding accounts for 1.6
percent of  Bank of America Corp .’s short-term liabilities and
1.3 percent at JPMorgan, according to a June 22 report from
 Fitch Ratings .  No Majority  The SEC proposal doesn’t have majority support on the five-
member commission. The two Republican members,  Troy Paredes  and
Daniel Gallagher, have joined with  Luis Aguilar , a Democrat, in
resisting the rules.  The Fed’s push could weaken opposition to regulation inside
the SEC, said former agency Chairman  Harvey Pitt , a Republican.  “If the Fed says we need rules, the SEC is going to be
hard-pressed to say, ‘No we don’t,’” he said.  Industry groups who oppose the proposed rules contend that
the SEC’s job is to monitor the markets, not regulate banks.  “If there’s a problem in the banking system that banks are
too dependent on short-term financing, then obviously that’s
something that should be addressed through bank regulation,”
said Paul Schott Stevens, president of the  Investment Company
Institute , a Washington-based trade group.  Systemic Risks  Gallagher said that systemic risks on  Wall Street  shouldn’t
be the SEC’s concern. In an interview, he said he wouldn’t
object if the Fed, which has broader systemic risk
responsibilities, chose to make it harder for banks to work with
money funds.  “Governor Tarullo identified a path that banking
regulators could take to remedy perceived problems with short-
term funding markets, including the role played by money-market
funds. Fed officials have also raised the idea of expanding
stress tests to incorporate support for bank-sponsored money-
market funds,” Gallagher said. “If the banking regulators feel
they have the basis and need to take action in that space, then
such action would be entirely appropriate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Sloan in Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  