-- Fiat Weighs Closing Another Italian Car Factory
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t   a n d   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2012-07-04T09:16:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/fiat-may-close-second-italian-factory-on-europe-slump-ceo-says.html
Fiat SpA (F)  Chief Executive Officer
 Sergio Marchionne  said he may close a second Italian factory as
European auto deliveries sink for a fifth straight year.  Fiat will shut another plant after closing one in Sicily
last year unless it can come up with an economically viable plan
to use excess capacity to build cars for  North America ,
Marchionne told reporters late yesterday in Turin.  Fiat has delayed the introduction of new models in Europe
and is cutting investment in the region by 500 million euros
($630 million) this year. Marchionne, 60, said yesterday that he
expects European car sales to remain at about the current level
for two to three years. Fiat’s first-quarter operating losses in
the region almost doubled to 207 million euros.  “If that is the demand in  Europe , there is at least one
extra car plant in  Italy ,” Marchionne said, who’s seeking more
flexible work rules from unions. “If we manage to utilize the
capacity to export to the U.S., this issue will disappear.”  Fiat shares  rose  as much as 2.1 percent to 4.22 euros and
were up 1.7 percent as of 11:06 a.m. in Milan.  PSA Peugeot
Citroen (UG) , which plans to buy out Fiat’s interest in a French van
factory and lower production there, declined as much as 2.3
percent to 7.54 euros in Paris.  The drop in European car sales accelerated in May to 8.4
percent, the eighth consecutive monthly decline, according to
the Brussels-based European Automobile Manufacturers’
Association, or ACEA. Fiat, Peugeot and  Renault SA (RNO)  have posted
the steepest slumps in the region this year, plummeting 15
percent or more in the first five months.  Fiat Layoffs  The Italian carmaker extended temporary layoffs for about
5,000 workers, mainly white-collar staff, at its executive
headquarters in Turin for 14 working days starting from July 30,
a union official said this week.  Competitors are also reducing costs.  General Motors Co. (GM) 
announced plans last month to close a factory in Bochum,
 Germany . Peugeot, Europe’s second-largest carmaker, plans to cut
as much as 10 percent of its French workforce this year, more
than previously announced, a union official said this week.  “They will raise the job cuts target in  France  alone to
8,000-10,000,” Christian Lafaye, the head of Peugeot’s second-
biggest union FO, said in an interview. Paris-based Peugeot said
in November it aimed to reduce headcount by 6,000 in the region.  Peugeot Cuts  Chief Executive Officer Philippe Varin told unions last
week that the carmaker will need to raise its 2012 savings
target of 1 billion euros, according to Franck Don, a CFTC union
representative.  Peugeot’s French factories in Aulnay, which employs 3,300,
and Rennes are most at risk of being shut as an alliance with GM
announced earlier this year adds to pressure, Don said last
month.  “Closing plants is a necessity and a step closer in the
right direction,” said Kristina Church, an analyst at Barclays
Bank Plc with an underweight/neutral recommendation on both Fiat
and Peugeot. “The situation in the European car market is
worsening and remains very dependent on the macroeconomic
environment.”  The French government doesn’t plan any new subsidies for
car purchases, Labor Minister Michel Sapin said today in an
interview on RMC Radio. Yesterday, Prime Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault said his government would lay out a plan to help the
automotive industry by the end of the month.  Price War  As part of the industry’s realignment, Peugeot plans to buy
Fiat’s 50 percent stake in the Sevelnord factory, according to a
union official. The company’s managers called for a works
council meeting on July 11 to discuss the plan, Ludovic Bouvier,
a representative for the CGT union at Sevelnord, said in a phone
interview. Peugeot plans to reduce the factory’s production to
24 vehicles per hour by the start of October from 30 now,
Bouvier said.  Pierre-Olivier Salmon, a spokesman for Peugeot, confirmed
the agenda for the works council meeting, while declining to
comment further. The Sevelnord plant, located near the northern
French city of Valenciennes, builds the Scudo commercial van for
Fiat. The partnership with Peugeot won’t be renewed when it
expires in 2017, the French automaker said in May 2011.  Overcapacity in Western Europe may more than double to
about 2 million vehicles in 2012, according to IHS Automotive.
Marchionne, who is also president of the ACEA trade group, has
been urging the industry to take action to reduce capacity.  Marchionne said late yesterday that the introduction of a
revamped Fiat Punto compact would be a “failure” because the
European auto market is suffering from a price war as well as
lower volumes.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net ;
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  