-- Fiat to Raise Chrysler Stake to 61.8% in Full Merger Push
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 2012-07-03T09:40:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/fiat-to-raise-chrysler-stake-to-61-8-in-full-merger-push.html
Fiat SpA (F)  will boost its Chrysler
Group LLC stake to 61.8 percent, taking a step closer to a full
merger with the American carmaker.  Italy ’s biggest manufacturer will exercise an option in the
coming weeks to buy an additional 3.3 percent from the United
Auto Workers’ retiree health-care trust, or VEBA, the Turin,
Italy based carmaker said in a statement.  Fiat, which did not provide the purchase price today, will
pay less than 200 million euros ($252 million) for the added
holding, Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne  said in an
interview last month. Fiat will have paid in the end about $2.3
billion for its stake in the American carmaker.  Marchionne, who plans to combine the two manufacturers to
boost sales to more than 100 billion euros by 2014, is relying
on the American carmaker’s profit as Fiat struggles to end
losses in Europe. Without Chrysler, the Italian company would
have posted a first-quarter net loss.  “Fiat has the intention to get to 100 percent of Chrysler
even if talks with VEBA are not in an advanced stage,” said
Emanuele Vizzini, chief investment officer at Investitori Sgr in
Milan. “ North America , with  Brazil , is crucial for Fiat as
 Europe  is worrisome.”  Fiat  rose  as much as 11 cents, or 2.8 percent, to 4.04
euros and was up 2 percent to 4.01 euros as of 11:39 a.m. in
Milan trading. The stock has gained 13 percent this year,
valuing the carmaker at 5.01 billion euros.  Full Merger  Fiat doesn’t plan to complete the full acquisition of
Chrysler this year and the carmaker is not currently in talks
with VEBA to buy the remaining 38.2 percent stake it owns,
Marchionne said in the interview.  “It’s in VEBA’s interest to negotiate with us,”
Marchionne said June 14 in  Madrid . “There won’t be any
spectacular news in the second half” on the Chrysler purchase
as “it’s important now to observe what will happen in Europe.”  Fiat has the right to buy the entire stake for $4.25
billion, plus 9 percent annual interest calculated from January
2010. The Italian carmaker may pay about 3 billion euros to buy
the rest of Chrysler,  Max Warburton , an analyst at  Sanford
Bernstein  wrote in a note to clients May 21. “This is an
excessive sum for me,” Marchionne said last month.  “We argue that Fiat would like to buy the entire stake
held by the VEBA more quickly and that it is expecting VEBA’s
dealing position to weaken in order to get a better deal,”
Gabriele Gambarova, an equities analyst at Banca Akros in Milan,
wrote in a note to clients today.  Cutting Investments  The union’s retiree health-care trust last month appointed
a new director to represent its interests as Marchionne pursues
the full combination. Erickson Perkins, an adviser to UAW
president  Bob King , became a director effective June 10. The 57-
year-old has served in King’s office since July 2010 as director
of the union’s strategic research department.  Fiat has delayed the introduction of new models in Europe,
and is cutting investment in the region by 500 million euros
this year because Marchionne, 60, doesn’t expect any recovery in
the second half. Fiat’s first-quarter operating losses in the
region almost doubled to 207 million euros.  Marchionne, who tonight will present the new 500L wagon in
Turin, said July 1 that Fiat can look at its investments in
Europe with “some level of stability” after European leaders
agreed last week to address flaws in their bailout programs to
ease the sovereign-debt crisis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Turin via the Milan newsroom at 
4231 or  tebhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  