-- Fink Says Diamond ‘Emotion’ May Have Aggravated Regulator
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s   a n d   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2012-07-03T17:48:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/fink-says-diamond-emotion-may-have-aggravated-regulator.html
Bob Diamond, who stepped down as
chief executive officer of  Barclays Plc (BARC)  today, aggravated U.K.
regulators by taking an aggressive stance over the manipulation
of interest rates, said Laurence D. Fink, head of  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)   “He led with a lot of emotion which obviously” angered
“regulators and some other people within the U.K.,” Fink, 59,
said in an interview with  Erik Schatzker  and  Trish Regan  on
Bloomberg Television’s “Market Makers.” “For me it’s sad. I
know Bob very well.”  Diamond, 60,  stepped down  as head of Britain’s second-
biggest bank amid a deepening dispute about whether the Bank of
England pushed the lender to submit artificially low Libor rates
during the financial crisis. Barclays was hit by a record 290
million-pound ($455 million) fine last week for rigging the
London interbank offered rate, the benchmark for more than $360
trillion of securities. Diamond yesterday defied pressure to
quit, pledging to implement the findings of a review into how
the bank sets its Libor rates.  Fink said he was “surprised” Barclays was the first to go
public with its settlement because other banks were also
implicated in fixing Libor. BlackRock is the second-biggest
shareholder of Barclays behind Qatar Holdings LLC, the country’s
sovereign wealth fund, and Diamond was on BlackRock’s board of
directors until this year.  ‘Quite Serious’  “Obviously, the allegations are quite serious now,” Fink
said. “It’s important for a leader to step down if the
situation gets so enormous that it breaks down the integrity of
the institution.”  Diamond will leave immediately, the London-based bank said
in a statement today, a day before he faces questions by British
lawmakers. Chief Operating Officer Jerry Del Missier also
stepped down, and Chairman Marcus Agius plans to leave once he
has found a replacement for Diamond.  Barclays released a note of a 2008 call purporting to show
that  Paul Tucker , the U.K. central bank’s then markets director,
hinted the firm could cut its Libor rates. The disclosure marks
a worsening in relations between Barclays, employer of almost
150,000 people worldwide, and its regulators. Bank of England
Governor  Mervyn King  and Financial Services Authority Chairman
 Adair Turner  had pushed to oust Diamond, the British
Broadcasting Corp. reported earlier today.  BlackRock Stake  A Bank of England spokesman declined to comment on the
document.  “I don’t think anybody should underestimate the
seriousness of this,”  Dominic Rossi , chief investment officer
for equities at Fidelity Worldwide Investments, one of
Barclays’s 10 biggest shareholders, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg, said today during a briefing with reporters. “In
all financial services you cannot get more serious than that.”  Diamond joined BlackRock’s board of directors after the New
York-based firm bought the bank’s  Barclays Global Investors  unit
in December 2009 for about $15.2 billion. The sale turned
BlackRock into the world’s biggest asset manager and added
passive products such as the iShares exchange-traded funds to
its offerings.  Barclays took a 19.6 percent holding in BlackRock at that
time. It sold its entire stake in May and Diamond stepped down
from BlackRock’s board.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in  New York  at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  