-- Fink Says U.S. Leaders ‘Snoring Away’ Amid Europe Wake-Up
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s   a n d   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-07-03T16:34:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/fink-says-u-s-leaders-snoring-away-as-europe-no-wake-up-call.html
BlackRock Inc. (BLK) ’s Laurence D. Fink,
who heads the world’s largest asset manager, said U.S. lawmakers
need to provide more certainty about spending and tax policy as
European leaders grapple with deficits.  “Our politicians are guardians too, and they’re not acting
in ways that guardians should,” Fink said today in an interview
on Bloomberg Television’s “Market Makers” with  Erik Schatzker 
and  Trish Regan . “Europe is a great wake-up call and they’re
still snoring away.”  The U.S. is facing a so-called  fiscal cliff  at the end of
the year when automatic spending cuts would begin and tax cuts
will expire without action by a  U.S. Congress  that has been
mired in political disputes. Fink said employers including
defense contractors will be discouraged from investing in their
operations until lawmakers signal how they’ll proceed.  “We need more clarity, and that is my message to every
politician I see,” said Fink, the chairman and chief executive
officer of New York-based BlackRock. “It’s all about
confidence. No one is investing for tomorrow.”  Unemployment in the euro-area reached the highest level on
record amid a deepening economic slump, data yesterday showed.
Joblessness in the 17-nation union rose to 11.1 percent in May
after companies cut costs as the worsening fiscal crisis eroded
exports and  consumer spending . Economies from Spain to Greece to
Portugal are expected to shrink this year and next, according to
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Dimon, El-Erian  Resolving the European crisis could take as long as eight
years, Fink said. Investors can’t afford to be in bonds that
yield as little as 1 percent during that time as policy makers
keep rates low to stimulate the economy, he said. He has
advocated stocks and, for investors with a time horizon of at
least 10 years, alternative holdings such as infrastructure
bets.  “In the United States, our recovery will not fully get
into its roll until 2014,” Fink said. “We are still going to
be looking better than Europe.”  Fink, 59, joins  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s  Jamie Dimon  and
Mohamed El-Erian of Pacific Investment Management Co. in urging
U.S. lawmakers to avoid a shock to the economy.  “We would like our politicians to get their act together
quicker,” El-Erian, the CEO of Pimco, said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television’s Betty Liu yesterday.  The Supreme Court ruling upholding President  Barack Obama ’s
health-care overhaul will ensure more Americans have coverage,
though it doesn’t address how to control rising costs, Fink
said. The decisions for health-care procedures need to be made
by individuals, not insurance providers, so people understand
the costs, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alexis Leondis in  New York  at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  