-- Fisker Says Investor DiCaprio to Promote Plug-In Karma
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2012-07-04T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/fisker-says-investor-dicaprio-to-promote-plug-in-karma.html
Fisker Automotive Inc., a maker of
luxury plug-in hybrid cars, said  Leonardo DiCaprio  is an equity
investor in the company and that the actor will promote its
Karma sedan as an environmentally friendly vehicle.  DiCaprio has participated in fundraising for the closely
held, Anaheim, California-based carmaker, Roger Ormisher, a
Fisker spokesman, said yesterday. He declined to say how much
the actor invested. Shawn Sachs, DiCaprio’s publicist, wasn’t
immediately available to comment on his involvement with Fisker.  “As an equity investor in Fisker Automotive, DiCaprio will
participate in conversations on the auto manufacturer’s future
plans for the advancement of sustainable, responsible
vehicles,” the company said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.
He’ll “work closely with Fisker on marketing and promotional
initiatives aimed at bringing attention to sustainability and
environmental awareness,” Fisker said.  The company, which has raised more than $1 billion in
private funds for its plug-in cars, is working to steady its
business after a delayed sales start, battery-pack malfunctions
and losing access to a portion of $529 million in low-cost
federal loans awarded to make cars in  Delaware . The company, co-
founded by designer  Henrik Fisker , named Tom LaSorda, a former
chief executive officer of the predecessor of Chrysler Group
LLC, its CEO in February.  Fisker has delivered more than 1,000 Karmas, priced from
$103,000, in the U.S. and Europe since December. The Karma is
able to travel as far as 50 miles (80 kilometers) on  lithium-ion
batteries  before a gasoline engine is activated.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  