-- Florida Appeals Order Blocking Voter-Registration Rules
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2012-07-03T21:10:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/florida-appeals-order-blocking-voter-registration-rules.html
Florida officials told a federal
appeals court that they may seek to reverse a lower court order
blocking the enforcement of the state’s restrictions on voter-
registration groups.  The Florida secretary of state, attorney general and
director of the division of elections filed the notice yesterday
with the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in Atlanta in a case brought by
the League of Women Voters. The ruling they are challenging bars
requirements that voter-drive groups turn over registration
materials to the state within 48 hours of completion or face
fines of as much as $1,000.  U.S. Judge Robert Hinkle in Tallahassee on May 31 ruled
that portions of the law “severely restrict” voter
registration drives and place “harsh and impractical” limits
on groups that conduct them.  The League’s lawsuit is among multiple cases challenging
voter-registration rules in the state. In a separate case,
Hinkle rejected a U.S. government effort to block a Florida
measure seeking to remove noncitizens from voter rolls, finding
that the state has already abandoned the program.  Diana Kasdan of the Brennan Center for Justice, a lawyer
for the League of Women Voters, said the group is working on a
settlement with the state that may make Hinkle’s injunction
permanent.  Seeking Resolution  The notice of appeal “doesn’t signify any change in what
we represented to the court last week, which is that both the
plaintiffs and the state are working to resolve this without
further litigation,” she said.  Chris Cate, a spokesman for  Florida ’s Department of State,
said the appeal was filed to “preserve our rights in the
case.”  “However, we are working on finalizing a settlement with
the plaintiffs to resolve the remaining disputes in the case and
maintain our primary objective, which is to preserve the
accountability provisions of the new law,” he said in a
statement e-mailed today.  Not all of the provisions challenged in the suit were
blocked by the judge. Hinkle found that some parts of the
statute were legal, including provisions requiring groups to
provide information to the state in electronic format and those
allowing violation of the measure to trigger civil actions by
the state.  Voter Drives  Voter-drive groups sued in December 2011, alleging that the
law ran afoul of the federal National Voter Registration Act of
1993 and was causing organizations to curtail their efforts to
increase voter participation.  Along with the possibility of fines for not turning in
documents on time, the law would also have imposed a requirement
that registration-group volunteers sign a form suggesting they
faced felony charges if they sent applications containing false
information, even if the volunteers didn’t know or have reason
to believe the information was false. Those provisions were also
blocked by the injunction.  The case is League of Women Voters of Florida v. Browning,
11-628, U.S. District Court, Northern District of Florida
(Tallahassee).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in  New York  at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  