-- Fonterra Sales to China Threatened by New Zealand Ports: Freight
-- B y   C h r i s   B o u r k e   a n d   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2012-07-04T05:26:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/fonterra-sales-to-china-threatened-by-new-zealand-ports-freight.html
New Zealand ’s ports, the gateway for
a quarter of the nation’s economy, have a potential threat to
their future: Most container ships under construction are so big
they’d run aground on arrival.  Aging terminals from Auckland on the  North Island  to Otago
in the south are struggling to keep pace with rivals along
 Australia ’s east coast. Of New Zealand’s four busiest export
hubs, only  Port of Tauranga Ltd . is in the advanced stages of
expanding for larger vessels, while others encounter regulatory
delays and public opposition to their development.  New Zealand needs to ensure that companies such as Fonterra
Cooperative Group Ltd., the world’s biggest dairy exporter, can
tap the growing demand for protein-rich diets in  China  and
beyond. Already handicapped by the three weeks it takes a ship
to get to  Hong Kong , New Zealand’s shippers say a failure to act
could cause the nation of 4.4 million people to cede ground to
its larger neighbor in the race to supply Asian markets.  “We either keep getting small vessels and get less and
less competitive as the fuel price eats away at the profit
margins for the New Zealand exporter, or worse, we lose deep-sea
vessels coming to New Zealand in favor of the carriers trans-
shipping over to Australia,” said Chris Greenough, chief
executive officer of Kotahi Logistics LP Ltd., Fonterra’s
freight handler, in an interview.  Tauranga’s Investments  Port of Tauranga  shares  gained 1.5 percent at the 5 p.m.
market close in Wellington, extending their advance this year to
14.3 percent, more than double the 6.4 percent rise in the
nation’s benchmark  NZX 50 Index (NZSE50FG) , as investors bet on its growth
prospects. About 160 kilometers (99 miles) southeast of
Auckland, Tauranga has more than NZ$150 million ($121 million)
in capital investments planned or started, including a 170-meter
(558-foot) wharf extension.  “Those ports that are the most efficient and the most
productive are in the best position to take advantage of the
opportunities,” said  Craig Brown , an Auckland-based  fund
manager  at OnePath NZ Ltd., a unit of ANZ National Bank Ltd.
that manages NZ$13 billion in stocks, bonds and property.  While a court recommended Tauranga’s consent in December, 2
1/2 years after lodging the plans, two Maori groups have
objected to dredging the harbor, citing cultural reasons, Chief
Financial Officer Steve Gray said in a telephone interview. New
Zealand’s indigenous people have grievances relating to breaches
of the nation’s 172-year-old Treaty of Waitangi, along with
strong spiritual ties to the land and water.  Deep-Sea Ships  Tauranga can handle larger full ships than other New
Zealand ports, according to New Zealand Shippers’ Council Inc.,
which represents  exporters  of more than half of container cargo.
The largest full vessel it could host at all tides would have a
capacity near 4,500 20-foot equivalent units, or TEUs, Gray
said. About 77 percent of all container ships currently on order
will carry more than 6,000 TEUs, according to  Clarkson Plc (CKN) , the
world’s biggest shipbroker.  Tauranga is confident it will reach agreement with the
indigenous groups this year, Gray said. The consent will allow
the port to be deepened to as much as 14.5 meters, even though
it won’t dredge that far initially, and capable of hosting ships
as large as 8,000 TEUs in the longer term, he said.  Asian demand for commodities has helped make the  New
Zealand dollar  the best performer this year among the Group of
10 currencies tracked by Bloomberg. With more land mass than the
U.K. and about 1/14th of Britain’s population, the Pacific
country is marketing its cheese, meat, fruit and wine to buyers
from  India  to  Malaysia  to China.  Milking Profits  To handle the demand, New Zealand’s two largest  South
Island  ports, Lyttelton and Otago, are seeking to expand as they
service regions rich in dairy farms and livestock producers.
Those facilities, along with ones at Tauranga and Auckland, the
nation’s largest city, are best positioned to take advantage of
larger ships calling at fewer ports, said Greg Steed, chairman
of the shippers’ council.  “Probably five years ago the typical vessels would have
been calling at nine ports in New Zealand,” said Mark Cairns,
CEO of Port of Tauranga, in an interview. “Now they’re looking
to drop that back to four or five ports and I think that’ll
continue to reduce.”  Auckland’s port isn’t seeking approvals for expansion,
spokeswoman Dee Radhakrishnan said in a response to e-mailed
questions. The port, which is owned by the city’s council, is
using consent gained in 1998 to boost its handling area and
provide a third container berth.  Auckland’s Strategy  Officials at Auckland’s port disagree with the shipping
council’s focus on bigger ships because it can already handle
the largest vessels likely to visit in the “foreseeable
future,” Radhakrishnan wrote.  “The very large ships are unlikely ever to call at New
Zealand, as we are such a small market,” she said.  A proposal to extend the facility by 250 meters into the
harbor was opposed by the public and officials in March. The
council is reviewing its options for the port, which is near the
central business district and residential apartments.  “Aucklanders understand the huge contribution the port
makes as the region’s most important economic asset,” Auckland
Council Investments Ltd. CEO Gary Swift said in an e-mail.
“Without the port, it’s difficult to imagine any kind of
economic future for the city.”  The biggest barrier to port expansion plans is legislation
that allows parties to object on multiple grounds, according to
Geoff Plunket, CEO of the South Island’s Port of Otago. It has
spent five years seeking dredging consent.  ‘Exporting Nation’  “If we call ourselves an exporting nation, the consenting
process is more difficult than it generally needs to be,”
Plunket said in a telephone interview.  While port capacity is a long-term challenge, productivity
is a more pressing concern, said Julian Bevis, managing director
of  A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S (MAERSKB) ’s Maersk New Zealand Ltd., in an
interview. Maersk, the world’s biggest container shipper,
permanently moved one of its biggest services to Tauranga from
Auckland in December. The service earns about NZ$20 million a
year, according to Ports of Auckland.  “New Zealand, as a country which is almost completely
dependent on international  trade , must be at the leading edge of
port productivity and not rather down the bottom where it is at
the moment,” Bevis said in a telephone interview.  Productivity, measured by the rate at which a port can move
containers, has to improve in Auckland, according to Bevis.
Auckland-based Fonterra redirected NZ$27 million of weekly trade
through Tauranga and Napier in January amid  strike action  at
Auckland, prompting the port’s CEO, Tony Gibson, to say it must
“significantly improve”  customer service .  China Demand  Reaching buyers in  Asia  will be a driver of future growth
for New Zealand. China’s gross domestic product per capita
doubled at the end of 2011 from 2007, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Fonterra forecasts milk demand in China will rise 7 percent
a year on average by 2020, according to a presentation from CEO
Theo Spierings in March. China’s own supply is estimated to
increase about 4 percent a year, creating the opportunity for
milk producers to meet the shortfall, he said.  Spierings expects New Zealand milk production will increase
to 22 billion liters by 2020 from 17 billion liters currently,
giving the company scope to tap the increased global demand.  At  Lyttelton Port Co. (LPC) , the busiest on the nation’s South
Island, officials are waiting for permission to dredge to allow
bigger ships. They submitted plans in 2010, when the region was
struck by the first in a series of earthquakes that damaged its
wharves and handling area. Approval could be granted this year
absent a legal challenge, CEO Peter Davie said in an interview.  Australian Aid  About 1,500 miles across the Tasman Sea, Australia’s
Victoria state government in June gave an extra A$400 million
($412 million) for the redevelopment of the Port of  Melbourne ,
bringing the total project to A$1.6 billion. The nation’s
biggest container port is the main competitor to New Zealand’s
ports, being the closest that can host bigger ships, Steed said.  “They’re a threat to New Zealand if we don’t become big-
ship capable,” said Steed of the shippers’ council. Carriers
will stop at Australia and say “New Zealand, you get your cargo
over here,” he said.  If some of New Zealand’s ports aren’t capable of hosting
7,000 TEU  container ships  by 2015 and bigger vessels only visit
Australia, about NZ$200 million a year could be added to supply
chain costs and transit times will increase, the Shippers’
Council estimates.  In April 2008, New Zealand became the first developed
country to sign a free-trade agreement with China, and in 2010
Prime Minister John Key pledged to double in five years their
two-way trade.  “We need all four ports to be capable within 10 years
because of the growth situation we expect,” Steed said. “We’re
not getting there fast enough, that’s the bottom line.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Bourke in Wellington at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net ;
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  