-- Forward-Collision Alerts Found to Reduce Auto Crashes
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2012-07-03T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/forward-collision-alerts-found-to-reduce-auto-crashes.html
Forward-collision warning systems and
headlights that help drivers see around curves reduce the number
of car crashes while lane-departure warnings may increase the
risk, an insurance study found.  Forward-collision warning systems, which use a camera or
radar to gauge what’s ahead of a car, can reduce crashes with
other vehicles by as much as 14 percent and so-called adaptive
headlights can cut the risk of a multiple-vehicle crash by as
much as 10 percent, the  Insurance Institute for Highway Safety ’s
Highway Loss Data Institute found in a study released today.  “Forward-collision technology is reducing claims,
particularly for damage to other vehicles, and adaptive
headlights are having an even bigger impact than we had
anticipated,”  Matt Moore , vice president of the highway loss
institute, said in an e-mailed statement.  The systems are proliferating in cars sold in the U.S. The
insurance group, based in Arlington, Virginia, studied damage
and injury claims for vehicles from  Honda Motor Co. (7267) ’s Acura
luxury line,  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s Buick brand,  Mazda Motor
Corp. (7261) ,  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz and Volvo Car Corp., the
Swedish carmaker owned by China’s Zhejiang Geely Holding Group
Co.  The study found that lane-departure warning systems, which
alert a driver when their car drifts, on Mercedes and Buicks
increased the risk of a crash. The study didn’t determine why
the risk increased when using those alerts.  The institute found no effect on crashes from blind-spot
detection and parking-assist features. All of the technologies
the study looked at were offered as optional equipment.  Autonomous Braking  Some forward-collision systems are coupled with autonomous
braking that slows a car, even if the driver doesn’t react, when
a vehicle is approaching something in front of it too quickly.  David Strickland , U.S. National Highway Traffic Safety
Administration head, last year said his top priority is
preventing crashes. The agency has spent much of its first three
decades trying to make cars safer.  NHTSA, in a Federal Register website  posting  yesterday,
said it has been studying forward-collision warning and
autonomous braking systems since 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  