-- French Banks Must Split ‘Speculative’ Business, Ayrault Says
-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t   a n d   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2012-07-03T16:52:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/french-banks-must-split-speculative-business-ayrault-says-1-.html
France ’s banks including  BNP Paribas
SA (BNP)  and  Societe Generale SA (GLE)  will have to split off some of their
riskiest operations as President  Francois Hollande  pushes ahead
with his campaign promises.  “Finance will have to be there to service the real
economy,” Prime Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault said today in a
speech to the nation’s 577 lawmakers. “That’s why we will
separate banks that are useful to investment and jobs from their
speculative activities.”  Ayrault’s speech laying out France’s political plan for
Hollande’s five-year mandate comes a day before a revision of
the 2012 budget law, part of the country’s effort to get to
grips with its deficit as growth stalls. The measures on banks
are part of the platform that helped Hollande win election in
May and that Ayrault confirmed today.  The first Socialist government in 17 years to run  Europe ’s
second-largest economy will enact new rules that follow on from
Hollande’s campaign promises, including a 30 percent cut in
nuclear output in the country’s energy mix, same-sex marriage,
local  voting rights  for foreigners and a 75 percent income tax
on annual earnings over 1 million euros ($1.26 million).  Economic Slowdown  With the government forced to find as much as 43 billion
euros in savings this year and next, according to the national
auditor report yesterday, Hollande has little choice but to
enforce as soon as this week a series of budget cuts and tax
increases.  His repeated promises to cut the deficit to 4.5 percent of
gross domestic product this year and 3 percent in 2013 will be
strained as economic growth slows. The  National Statistics
Office , Insee, cut its economic growth forecast to 0.4 percent
for this year and between 1 percent and 1.3 percent in 2013,
instead of 1.7 percent previously.  While Ayrault set in the stone of his policy speech the
campaign promise, he did not give any details on how and when
the government would move ahead.  Ayrault indicated that the government will increase taxes
on the oil industry, without giving further details. Hollande is
planning to tax fuel inventories, a move that may cost French
refiners and distributors 500 million euros, according to
industry group Union Francaise des Industries Petrolieres, or
UFIP, which represents companies including Total SA and Exxon
Mobil Corp. Refiners will be the biggest payers of the proposed
tax because they have the largest fuel stocks, it said.  Inheritance Tax  The levy will be a “one-off” imposed this year, UFIP head
Jean-Louis Schilansky said in an interview June 27.  Hollande’s call to split off banks’ “speculative”
branches echoes the Vickers plan in the U.K., which recommended
that lenders separate consumer and investment-banking operations
and that each have a separate board with at least two-thirds of
their members sitting on only one board. Under the report, banks
will also need to have their own risk committees.  BNP Paribas, France’s biggest bank, fell 1.4 percent to
31.22 euros in Paris trading, while  Societe Generale , the second
largest, dropped 1.5 percent to 18.67 euros.  While Hollande pledged to spur growth and ban “austerity”
from his vocabulary, the auditor’s report may help him justify
the series of tax increases that his deficit commitments force
him to impose. The auditor said France needs between 6 billion
euros and 10 billion euros in savings this year and 33 billion
euros in 2013 to meet deficit-reduction targets.  Tax measures will include an increased levy on large
corporations with more than 500 workers, a rise in inheritance
taxes and the end of the fiscal measures for the wealthy that
Hollande said benefited from the previous government. Ayrault
promised to crack down on tax evaders as the  government  prepares
to cut tax breaks for high earners.  More Teachers  “This government’s aim is to call on those that have been
so far exonerated from the collective effort,” Ayrault said,
citing increased taxes on banks, oil industries, wealthy tax
payers and big companies.  The state will hire 60,000 school teachers and workers over
a five-year period, the prime minister said today. The plan will
be balanced by the limitation of new hires as the government
will seek to maintain and not increase its workforce, he said.  Seeking to split from his predecessor  Nicolas Sarkozy ’s
politics, Hollande pledged to scrap the value-added tax increase
that would have been applied in October and to lower the
proportion of nuclear-produced electricity to 50 percent by 2025
from 75 percent.  Ayrault didn’t reiterate Hollande’s election promise to
shut the Fessenheim atomic reactors in eastern France, nor did
he give details about the reduction of nuclear output.  Hollande will also release surplus publicly-owned land for
residential development on long term leases as the government
seeks to kick-start the construction and housing industries to
create jobs.  Ayrault will submit his policy plan to the National
Assembly for a vote of confidence, a ballot he can’t lose as the
Socialist Party holds the absolute majority in the lower
chamber.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  