-- FSA’s Turner Says Banks Culture One of ‘Cynical Entitlement’
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o   a n d   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2012-07-03T13:31:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/fsa-s-turner-says-banks-have-culture-of-cynical-entitlement-1-.html
Financial Services Authority Chairman
 Adair Turner  said banks must purge a culture of “cynical
entitlement” after the Libor scandal that led to the
resignation of  Barclays Plc (BARC) ’s  Robert Diamond .  The FSA’s probes into attempts to manipulate the London
interbank offered rate and other similar benchmarks will result
in more settlements “before the end of the year,” Turner said
today. They require significant resources and caused a huge blow
to the nation’s banking industry’s reputation, he said.  His comments came hours after Diamond stepped down as chief
executive officer following the bank’s admission that it
submitted false Libor information to benefit derivatives trades
and bolster its own positions. Barclays, Britain’s second-
biggest lender by assets, was fined a record $451 million in
U.K. and U.S. probes last week.  “The cynical greed of traders asking their colleagues to
falsify their Libor submissions so that they could make bigger
profits has justifiably shocked and angered people, in
particular when we are facing hard economic times provoked by
the financial crisis,” Turner said.  Turner, who has been chairman of the FSA since 2008,
recommended the board of Barclays think about the “challenge
they faced in enacting sufficient culture change to put the
problems of the past behind them,” he said, adding that he
“respects and understands” Diamond’s decision to resign.  Libor investigations are at various stages “reflecting the
cooperation of firms and their willingness to settle,” he said.  Trust, Reputation  The U.K. financial-services industry faces “a crisis of
trust and reputation” after a series of mis-selling scandals,
Turner said. Last week, Barclays,  Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc ,  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  and  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  agreed to
compensate small and medium-sized businesses improperly sold
interest-rate derivatives.  Turner spoke today at a conference announcing the London
regulator’s last annual report before it is split into two
separate bodies next year.  Turner has a history of complaining about the industry he
regulates. In 2009, he said some bank activities were “socially
useless,” and was one of the first people in the U.K. to call
for a tax on banks that would be used to distribute profits to
the world’s poor. Banks should move away from products such as
complex derivatives that don’t benefit society, Turner has said.  Free Lunches  “There are no free lunches, and shoddy wholesale practice
is not a victimless act, even in those cases where it is not
defined as a crime,” Turner said today. Banks and regulators
must determine “how to purge the industry of the culture of
cynical entitlement which was far too prevalent before the
crisis.”  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  told lawmakers
yesterday that Martin Wheatley, designated to become CEO when
part of the FSA is split into the Financial Conduct Authority,
will conduct an inquiry into how Libor functions.  Wheatley’s inquiry, to conclude this summer, will look into
whether Libor setting should be regulated, whether actual trade
data can be used to set the benchmark, and “the adequacy of the
U.K.’s current criminal and civil sanctioning powers with
respect to financial conduct, and market abuse with regards to
Libor,” Osborne said.  Wholesale Review  The FSA is also scheduled to report on banking conduct in
other markets for wholesale financial products by October,
Turner said. Wheatley declined to comment on which products
would be included in the review.  Citigroup Inc.,  RBS (RBS) , UBS AG, ICAP Plc, Lloyds and Deutsche
Bank AG are among the firms some regulators are investigating.
Eighteen banks are surveyed as part of the process of
determining Libor and related rates.  Libor is derived from a survey of banks conducted each day
on behalf of the British Bankers’ Association in London. Lenders
are asked how much it would cost them to borrow from one another
for 15 different periods, from overnight to one year, in
currencies including dollars, euros, yen and Swiss francs. After
a set number of quotes are excluded, those remaining are
averaged and published for each currency by the BBA before noon.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in  London  at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Moshinsky in Brussels at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  