-- Gasoline’s Drop Toward $3 Provides Obama a Lift
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k   a n d   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2012-07-03T14:46:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/gasoline-s-drop-toward-3-provides-obama-a-lift-energy-m.html
U.S. gasoline prices at the pump,
headed to $4 a gallon in April, are dropping toward $3 as the
July Fourth holiday approaches, giving consumers relief and a
boost to President  Barack Obama ’s re-election campaign.  Retail prices  have fallen 15 percent to $3.329 from a peak
of $3.936 on April 4, according to Heathrow, Florida-based AAA,
the largest U.S. motoring group. They’re also 6.6 percent lower
than a year ago, underscoring how slowing economies are sapping
demand even as an embargo on Iranian oil starts.  Republican criticism of Obama’s energy policies has faded
as oil fell as much as 29 percent from this year’s high in
February and stockpiles ballooned to the most in 22 years.
Americans bought less gasoline in the four weeks ended June 26
than a year earlier even as prices dropped,  MasterCard Inc. (MA)  data
show. Last month, the  Federal Reserve  cut its estimate for U.S.
growth,  Spain  became the fourth euro-region country to seek an
international bailout and China’s manufacturing shrank.  “Two months ago, the Republicans in Congress were trying
to place blame on the administration for the high energy prices,
and, boy, you haven’t heard that in a month now,”  Bruce Oppenheimer , a Nashville, Tennessee-based Vanderbilt University
professor who has studied energy and politics, said in a June 29
telephone interview. “All of a sudden, it went from the front
burner, to the back burner, to off the burner.”  March High  August gasoline futures on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
dropped 0.79 cent to $2.6239 a gallon yesterday, down 23 percent
from the March 26 high for the year. Prices were as much as 4.1
percent higher today at $2.7317.  Crude for August delivery rose as much as 5.1 percent today
to $88.04 a barrel after sliding to an eight-month low of $77.69
on June 28. Oil futures surged to $109.77 on Feb. 24, highest
settlement price since May 3, 2011.  Gasoline at the pump, averaged nationwide, was last below
$3 a gallon in December 2010. Prices would need to drop a
further 9.9 percent to reach that level, based on AAA data.
There is about a  27 percent chance  that retail prices will be
below $3 in September, the Energy Department said in its June 12
Short-Term Energy Outlook.  Pump prices are down from $3.565 a gallon a year ago, AAA
data show. Prices declined 8 percent during the second half of
2011 to end the year at $3.278.  Mitt Romney , Obama’s Republican challenger, said in a March
18 “Fox News Sunday” interview that there’s “no question”
Obama was to blame for rising gasoline prices. In a Gallup poll
taken June 22-28, Obama led Romney 48 percent to 43 percent. On
April 12-16, Romney led Obama 48 percent to 43 percent.  California Price  Relief at the pump isn’t being shared equally. The average
retail price in  California  is $3.741 a gallon after rising to
$4.231 a month ago, according to AAA. Gasoline in Alaska and
Hawaii is still above $4, while at the other extreme a gallon in
 South Carolina  will set motorists back $2.915.  “The selloff has been driven by the crude market,”  David Greely , head of energy research at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in
 New York , said in a June 27 telephone interview. “Oil’s down
because of concerns about global growth. The U.S. and Chinese
economies appear to be slowing, the  European debt crisis 
continues.”  Crude in New York reached its 2012 peak as tension flared
between Iran and Western nations over the Islamic republic’s
nuclear program. In April, representatives from the U.S.,
Russia, China, the U.K., France and Germany held their first
talks with Iran on its atomic program in 15 months.  Brent Crude  Brent oil for August settlement fell 46 cents, or 0.5
percent, to $97.34 a barrel yesterday on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange, down 13 percent from a year earlier.
The grade was up $3.39, or 3.5 percent, to $100.73 at 10:26 a.m.
New York time today. The contract is used to price more than
half the world’s oil, including crude from Europe and West
Africa refined on the U.S. East and Gulf Coasts.  Crude output from  Saudi Arabia , the world’s biggest oil
exporter, surged this year before the July 1 implementation of
European Union sanctions on Iran. The  desert kingdom  pumped 9.9
million barrels a day in May, the highest level since at least
January 1989, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Iran was the big deal,” Bill O’Grady, chief market
strategist at Confluence Investment Management in  St. Louis ,
which oversees $1.3 billion, said in a June 25 telephone
interview. “We peaked out a month early because what happened
with crude.”  China’s Economy  The Fed estimated on June 20 that U.S. gross domestic
product will grow between 1.9 percent and 2.4 percent this year,
down from 2.4 percent to 2.9 percent forecast in April. Spain on
June 25 requested 100 billion euros ($127 billion) in loans for
its ailing bank industry, while an index of Chinese
manufacturing slipped to 48.2 last month from 48.4 in May, HSBC
Holdings Plc and Markit Economics said yesterday.  Rising domestic and Canadian oil production from shale and
tar sands boosted U.S. crude  inventories  to 387.3 million
barrels in mid-June, the highest level since July 1990,
according to the Energy Department.  U.S. refiners operated at 92.6 percent of capacity in the
week ended June 22, the most since July 2007. Gasoline  demand 
averaged 8.83 million barrels a day in the four weeks ended June
22, down 4.8 percent from the same period last year.  “The fall in gasoline is a side effect of the diminished
economic outlook,”  John Kilduff , a partner at Again Capital
LLC, a New York-based energy hedge fund, said in a June 26
telephone interview. “The relief should continue given that
refineries are operating at more than 90 percent of capacity
even though demand is weak.”  Summer Demand  U.S. gasoline consumption typically peaks between the
Memorial Day holiday in late May and Labor Day in early
September, when Americans traditionally take vacations.  “We’ve already seen the peak gasoline price for 2012,
unless there is some geopolitical event,”  Guy Caruso , a senior
adviser for energy and national security at the Center for
Strategic and International Studies in Washington, said in a
June 26 telephone interview.  The gasoline market in New York, the delivery point for
Nymex futures, remains vulnerable to price increases because of
refinery shutdowns, Kilduff said. The region, which lost about
700,000 barrels a day of capacity on the East Coast and in the
Caribbean, was in danger of losing its largest fuel producer as
 Sunoco Inc. (SUN)  sought a buyer for its Philadelphia plant.  Sunoco and  Carlyle Group  agreed yesterday to form a joint
venture to keep the 330,000 barrel-a-day refinery open. Delta
Air Lines Inc. bought the idled Trainer refinery April 30, which
will bring back 185,000 barrels a day of capacity to the region.  April Prices  “April was a combination of factors that don’t exist in
the current market,”  Sander Cohan , a global transportation-
fuels analyst and principal with Energy Security Analysis Inc.
in Wakefield, Massachusetts, said in a June 25 telephone
interview. “You had a lot of capacity offline and fear that the
East Coast wasn’t going to get supplies it needed.”  For all the forecasts for price declines, cheaper gasoline
may spur a revival in demand, said Bill Compitello, managing
director of retail fuels, supply and trading at Pennsylvania-
based Wawa Inc., a gasoline retailer with 312 outlets.  “We’re seeing an uptick in demand from where we were and I
think that is price-driven,” Compitello said.  The Energy Department increased its forecast for
consumption this year by 0.2 percent on June 12.  Oil in New York is forecast to average $102 a barrel in the
third quarter, according to the median of 34 analysts estimates
compiled by Bloomberg over the past year.  The crude oil bear market is ending and with it the drop in
motor fuel prices, said  Mike Wittner , head of oil-market
research at Societe Generale SA in New York.  “We expect crude prices to stabilize and I don’t expect
much of a change” in the profit refiners make from producing
motor fuel, Wittner said. “So gasoline should stabilize as
well.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Burkhardt in New York at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  