-- German Bonds Drop as Safety Bid Fades, Ireland Returns to Market
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2012-07-03T15:36:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/german-bonds-drop-as-safety-bid-fades-ireland-returns-to-market.html
Germany ’s 30-year bonds fell, pushing
yields toward a two-month high, as optimism central banks will
act to boost the global economy reduced the allure of holding
the securities of  Europe ’s largest economy as a haven.  Spanish and Italian bonds advanced amid speculation the
 European Central Bank  may announce support measures similar to
two longer-term refinancing operations, or LTROs, it undertook
in December and February. Irish bonds rose a fifth day as the
country announced plans to re-enter credit markets. Longer-
maturity German securities also dropped after the Netherlands
amended  interest rates  used by insurers to determine their
solvency positions, damping demand for the bonds.  “The market is perhaps starting to take into account the
ECB meeting this week,” said  Peter Chatwell , a fixed-income
strategist at Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank in
 London . “We expect a rate cut at this meeting and don’t rule
out further LTROs in the future.” A reduction in rates “should
benefit peripheral bonds in a very near term,” he said.  The yield on Germany’s  30-year bond  rose seven basis
points, or 0.07 percentage point, to 2.37 percent at 4:30 p.m.
London time, after sliding three basis points yesterday. The 2.5
percent security due July 2044 dropped 1.545, or 15.45 euros per
1,000-euro ($1,256) face amount, to 102.88.  ‘Stabilizing Measures’  ECB officials will lower their benchmark rate by 25 basis
points to a record-low 0.75 percent, according to the median
forecast in a Bloomberg survey of 62 economists. Five predict a
cut of 50 basis points and 11 foresee no change.  “The market appears to be in a risk-on mode today, and
that’s perhaps why bunds struggled to rise,” said Charles Berry, a bond trader at Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg in
Stuttgart. “Italian and Spanish bonds are rising ahead of the
ECB as some people are covering short positions. They don’t want
to be caught on the wrong side of the market in the case that
the ECB announces further market stabilizing measures.” A short
position is a bet the price of an asset will drop.  Ten-year German yields rose two basis points to 1.54
percent, while their Spanish peers slipped 12 basis points to
6.26 percent. That left the extra yield that investors get for
holding the Spanish debt instead of bunds at 472 basis points,
down from 537 basis points a week ago. Italy’s 10-year bond
yield fell 10 basis points to 5.64 percent.  Dutch Insurers  Dutch 10-year bonds fell two basis points as the
Netherlands sold 6 billion euros of debt due in January 2018, a
day after the country sold bills at a negative yield. The yield
on the 10-year securities was at 2 percent.  Thirty-year bonds in AAA nations including Germany, the
Netherlands and  Finland  slid after the Dutch central bank
announced a rule that allows insurers to use a new interest rate
for their long-dated debt to reduce fluctuations in insurance
companies’ solvency positions.  “The rules could result in lower demand for long-dated
bonds,” said  Wilson Chin , a senior interest-rate strategist in
London at HSBC Holdings Plc. “But these have been expected by
the market for a while and therefore the immediate impact would
be limited.”  The yield on Dutch securities maturing in January 2042
increased eight basis points to 2.66 percent. The rate jumped to
2.73 percent on June 29, the most since April. Finland’s 30-year
yield increased seven basis points to 2.72 percent.  Irish Volatility  Volatility on Irish government debt was the highest in
developed markets today, followed by Italy and  Belgium ,
according to measures of 10-year bonds, the spread between two-
and 10-year securities, and credit default swaps.  Ireland is planning to sell 500 million euros of treasury
bills maturing on Oct. 15 in two days, the Dublin-based National
Treasury Management Agency said. The yield on the nation’s
securities due October 2020 fell 12 basis points to 6.22
percent, the least since 2010.  Denmark , which isn’t part of the euro area, sold two-year
notes at a negative yield today, the Copenhagen-based central
bank said in a statement.  French bonds stayed higher after Prime Minister Jean-Marc
Ayrault announced measures that will steer it to a balanced
budget in 2017, including  job creation  and a 75 percent income
tax on annual earnings of more than 1 million euros.  The yield on 10-year bonds fell four basis points to 2.55
percent, while two-year note yields dropped six basis points to
0.41 percent.  German bonds have returned 2.3 percent this year, while
Spanish securities handed investors a loss of 3.6 percent amid
an escalation in the sovereign-debt crisis, according to indexes
compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial
Analysts Societies. Italian debt earned 9.3 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  