-- German Stocks Extend Seven-Week High; ThyssenKrupp Gains
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2012-07-03T16:04:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/german-stocks-extend-seven-week-high-eon-shares-advance.html
German stocks advanced for a third
day, extending a seven-week high, amid speculation of more
central bank stimulus measures and as U.S. factory orders topped
economists’ forecasts.  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA) ,  Germany ’s largest steelmaker, led gains,
surging 4.2 percent.  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) ,  Europe ’s second-
biggest airline, rallied 1.9 percent as  Goodbody Stockbrokers 
recommended shares of the region’s flag carriers. Volkswagen AG
climbed 2.8 percent as U.S. auto sales exceeded forecasts.  The DAX Index added 1.3 percent to 6,578.21 at the close of
trading in  Frankfurt , the highest since May 11. The measure
rallied 2.4 percent last week after European Union leaders
meeting in Brussels agreed to ease repayment rules for Spanish
banks and relaxed conditions for possible aid to  Italy . The
broader HDAX Index also rose 1.3 percent today.  “This is a relief rally,” said Ion-Marc Valahu, co-
founder and fund manager at Clairinvest in Geneva. “The summit
put a floor to the market. The DAX could push up to about the
6,800 mark, then we need the fundamentals to come back on track
to show that the world economy can get back on its feet.”  The  European Central Bank  and the  Bank of England  announce
interest-rate decisions on July 5. ECB officials will lower
their  benchmark rate  by 25 basis points to a record low 0.75
percent, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey
of 62 economists. Five predict a cut of 50 basis points and 11
foresee no change.  China Easing  China  may cut reserve requirement ratios for banks three
more times in 2012, each by 0.5 percentage points, Shanghai
Securities News reported on its website, citing a development
report released by the China Banking Association today.  U.S.  factory orders  gained 0.7 percent in May, recovering
from the first back-to-back declines in March and April in more
than three years. The increase in bookings followed a revised
0.7 percent drop in April, the Commerce Department said today.
The median forecast of economists in a Bloomberg survey called
for a rise of 0.1 percent.  ThyssenKrupp advanced 4.2 percent to 13.76 euros, for the
biggest five-day rally since November. Salzgitter AG, Germany’s
second-largest steelmaker, rose 2.6 percent to 33.13 euros.  Lufthansa increased 1.9 percent to 9.28 euros, the highest
price since May 7. There is a positive backdrop for the  airline
industry  as a result of declining fuel prices, “resilient”
economic strength for premium traffic outside the European Union
and signs of stabilization in the cargo industry, according to
Goodbody Stockbrokers in Dublin.  Volkswagen Rises  Volkswagen, Europe’s largest carmaker, rose 2.8 percent to
127.95 euros.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , the biggest maker of
luxury cars, advanced 2.7 percent to 58.94 euros.  General Motors Co., Ford Motor Co. and Chrysler Group LLC
said U.S. auto sales exceeded estimates in June as gains for the
three carmakers and Nissan Motor Co. surprised analysts by
surpassing projections.  Beiersdorf AG (BEI) , the German producer of Nivea skin creams,
jumped 2.2 percent to 52.44 euros as Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.
said European makers of household products are likely to benefit
from currency fluctuations in 2012.  BASF SE (BAS) , the world’s largest chemical maker, advanced 2.3
percent to 56.50 euros. BASF agreed to buy Malcolm, Iowa-based
ITWC Inc. to strengthen its polyurethanes business.  Metro AG (MEO) , Germany’s biggest retailer, increased 1.8 percent
to 23.58 euros, a third day of gains.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  