-- Glaxo Executives Cited in Case Now Lead Sanofi, Actelion
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2012-07-03T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/glaxo-executives-cited-in-case-now-lead-sanofi-actelion.html
Two senior executives at
 GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  singled out by the U.S. Justice Department
for pushing the Advair asthma drug for unapproved uses have
moved on to some of  Europe ’s top pharmaceutical companies.  Jean-Pierre Garnier, chief executive officer from 2000 to
2008, is chairman of Swiss drugmaker  Actelion Ltd. (ATLN) , while  Chris Viehbacher , Glaxo’s former president of U.S. pharmaceuticals, is
CEO of Sanofi, Europe’s third-biggest  drug company . The
department cited the men, along with Stanley Hull, a former
senior vice president for U.S. pharmaceuticals, in a  lawsuit 
July 2.  “High-level GSK executives implemented the off-label
promotion of Advair,” the Justice Department said in the
complaint filed in Boston federal court.  Prosecutors didn’t file charges or sue the former
executives. London-based Glaxo agreed to pay $3 billion to
settle allegations that it illegally promoted  prescription drugs 
and failed to report safety data, the government said July 2.
The settlement is the largest ever in a health-care fraud case.  Jean-Marc Podvin, a spokesman for Paris-based Sanofi, said
Viehbacher wasn’t immediately available for comment. Roland
Haefeli, a spokesman for Allschwil, Switzerland-based Actelion,
said Garnier didn’t have an immediate comment. Phone and e-mail
messages left for Hull with a  New Jersey  company where he serves
on the board weren’t immediately returned.  “I want to express our regret and reiterate that we have
learnt from the mistakes that were made,” Glaxo CEO  Andrew Witty  said in a statement July 2. While the matters in the
settlement “originate in a different era for the company, they
cannot and will not be ignored,” he said.  Black-Box Warning  Glaxo promoted Advair from 2001 through at least 2010 for
all asthma patients, even though the  Food and Drug
Administration  approved the drug for use in only severe cases,
according to the complaint.  The agency added a so-called black-box warning to Advair’s
label in 2003 that data showed “a small but significant
increase in asthma-related deaths” in patients receiving long-
acting beta agonists, a type of drug found in Advair.  “The direction to target mild and newly diagnosed patients
for first-line Advair use came from the highest level of the
company and was reiterated by the company’s senior management,”
according to the Justice Department complaint, which cited
statements by Hull in 2002 and 2004, by Viehbacher in 2004, and
by Garnier in 2006.  ‘Phenomenal’ Drug  “The real opportunity for us with Advair is that we can
now convince physicians that there is no such thing as mild or
severe asthma: you have asthma,” Viehbacher said at a
presentation to investors in  London  in 2004, according to the
filing. He quit Glaxo in September 2008 to join  Sanofi (SAN)  after
losing out to Witty in the race to replace Garnier as CEO.  In January 2006, Garnier told investors that the FDA’s
warning on Advair’s safety shouldn’t affect Glaxo’s stock price
because it is “not meaningful and it is not going to have a big
effect. I think products such as Advair are phenomenal for the
treatment of asthma, and they should be used for mild to
moderate and severe asthmatics. Physicians are not going to
listen to the FDA.”  Garnier retired as Glaxo CEO in May 2008 and was named
chairman of Actelion last year. Hull’s profile on LinkedIn.com
lists him as an independent pharmaceuticals professional in
 North Carolina . He serves on the board of  Palatin Technologies
Inc. (PTN) , a drug company in Cranbury, New Jersey, according to the
company’s website.  Pleading Guilty  Glaxo didn’t admit liability or wrongdoing in the selling
and marketing of Advair and seven other products included in the
investigation.  Glaxo will plead guilty to three misdemeanor charges --
marketing the anti-depressants Paxil and Wellbutrin for uses not
approved by the FDA, and for failing to report clinical data on
the Avandia diabetes treatment. The company marketed Paxil to
doctors as a treatment for people under the age of 18 while
knowing that the drug hadn’t proved effective for these
patients, according to government documents.  Glaxo withheld clinical data from studies of Paxil
completed in 1998 and 2001 and falsified results from a third
study for publication, according to a  document  filed by
prosecutors in Boston federal court. In 2004, the U.S. required
makers of Paxil and other antidepressants to carry a black-box
warning on their labels, advising that the medicines could
increase the risk of suicidal thoughts and behavior in patients
under the age of 18.  Whistleblowers’ Roles  The company promoted Paxil for unapproved uses by paying
psychiatrists to attend meetings at “lavish resorts” in Puerto
Rico,  Hawaii  and Palm Springs,  California , according to the
federal filing. Entertainment at the meetings included dinners,
sailing, snorkeling, a rum distillery tour, deep sea fishing and
balloon rides, it said.  Gregory Thorpe and Blair Hamrick, two former sales
representatives for Glaxo in the U.S., were among whistleblowers
who provided the government with evidence of the so-called off-
label marketing by Glaxo, according to a settlement agreement
released by the  Justice Department .  Thorpe said he reported his concerns to Glaxo executives
beginning in 2001. “In the end, I was told that my concerns
were not valid,” he said in a statement released by Kenney &
McCafferty, PC, the  law firm  that represented him and Hamrick.
“I was put on leave and given a choice -- either take a
severance package or go back to work for the same people, doing
the same things I had reported to management.”  The government’s investigation and negotiations with Glaxo
took nine years, during which time he was refused job interviews
by 23 pharmaceutical companies, Thorpe said.  Incentive Pay  Last year, Glaxo changed incentive compensation programs
for U.S. sales representatives. The company has eliminated the
link between sales goals and bonuses, which are now based on
selling competency, customer evaluations and overall performance
of the representative’s business unit.  “In the U.S., we have taken action at all levels in the
company,” Witty said. “We have fundamentally changed our
procedures for compliance, marketing and selling.”  The settlement includes a corporate integrity agreement
with the  U.S. Department of Health  and Human Services that
includes a “clawback provision” where executives are subject
to having their bonuses forfeited for their own or their
subordinates’ improper conduct.  ‘Speed Bumps’  “This is a really important move on the part of the
federal government,” said Erika Kelton, a lawyer at Phillips &
Cohen LLP who represented two other whistleblowers. “Bringing
it down to the individual executives who are responsible for
overseeing marketing and making their pocketbooks feel it if
they engage in further wrongdoing is really valuable.”  At least 41 whistleblower complaints against pharmaceutical
companies have been filed in U.S. federal fraud cases that
contained allegations of improper marketing between 1996 and
2010, leading to $7.9 billion in settlements, according to  Aaron
Kesselheim  of the Harvard School of  Public Health .  Other settlements include the $2.3 billion Pfizer Inc. paid
in 2009 over the marketing of its Bextra painkiller and other
drugs and the $1.4 billion Eli Lilly & Co. paid the same year
over sales of its Zyprexa anti-psychotic medicine.  “For pharma, are these billion dollar settlements just
speed bumps or parking tickets?” said Kevin Outterson, a
professor of health law at  Boston University  and editor-in-chief
of the Journal of Law, Medicine & Ethics. “Given the history,
they’re still not big enough to deter the companies” from
engaging in improper marketing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  