-- GM Said to Be in Talks With Facebook About Resuming Ads
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s   a n d   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-07-03T17:04:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/gm-said-to-be-in-talks-with-facebook-about-resuming-ads.html
General Motors Co. (GM) , which said it
would stop advertising on  Facebook Inc. (FB)  on the eve of the social
network’s initial public offering in May, is talking with the
site about resuming the ads, two people familiar with the talks
said.  Those efforts have included Facebook Chief Operating
Officer  Sheryl Sandberg  talking with GM Chief Executive Officer
Dan Akerson, said one of those people who asked not to be named
because the discussions are private.  GM said in May it decided to stop advertising on Facebook
mid-year after a regular spending review. The Detroit-based
automaker spent $10 million on paid ads on Facebook last year, a
person familiar with the spending has said. That’s a fraction of
the about $1.8 billion GM spent in 2011 on advertising in the
U.S., according to Kantar Media.  The automaker is willing to reconsider Facebook if it
concludes there’s a proper return on the investment, a person
familiar with the discussions said.  GM also decided not to advertise during the  National
Football League ’s Super Bowl championship game next year on CBS.
 Joel Ewanick , GM chief marketing officer, said the automaker
couldn’t justify the expense. GM wants to revamp marketing and
save $2 billion over five years. Some of the changes have also
included spending in new areas, such as sponsoring the
Manchester United Ltd. soccer club.  Carolyn Everson, vice president of global marketing
solutions at Facebook, also has met with Ewanick, according to
the person familiar with the talks.  Tom Henderson , a GM spokesman, couldn’t immediately be
reached for comment after business hours in Detroit. Annie Ta, a
spokeswoman for Facebook, declined to comment. The talks were
reported earlier by the Wall Street Journal.  Investor Concern  GM’s move to end Facebook advertising highlighted investor
concern about the social network.  Facebook, which has fallen  19 percent  since its May 18 IPO
through yesterday, makes more than 80 percent of its revenue
from advertising targeted to members who access the site on
computers. In a filing ahead of its IPO, the company said
advertising sales growth wasn’t keeping pace with user growth as
more people access the site from mobile devices. Facebook didn’t
introduce a mobile ad service until this year.  GM rose 5.6 percent, the most since Feb. 16, to $20.67 at
the close in New York. Facebook gained 1.4 percent to $31.20.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Higgins in Southfield, Michigan at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Bill Koenig  at 
 wkoenig@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  