-- Greece Needs Stability for Growth, Development Minister Says
-- B y   N a t a l i e   W e e k s
-- 2012-07-03T17:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/greece-needs-stability-for-growth-development-minister-says.html
Greece  must stabilize its economy and
push ahead with reforms to secure the foundations for economic
growth, Development, Infrastructure and Transport Minister
Kostis Hatzidakis said.  “Regaining market and investor confidence is the first
step and political stability is very important for this,”
Hatzidakis said in a copy of a speech, e-mailed from the Athens-
based ministry today. “We seek to anchor the country in the
euro area, taper harsh measures, particularly for the weaker
strata, and gradually change the country’s course to get it out
of a deep recession quagmire.”  Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras put together a
coalition government after his New Democracy party won June 17
elections on pledges to renegotiate parts of the 130 billion-
euro ($164 billion) second bailout from the European Union and
 International Monetary Fund . An inconclusive poll on May 6 led
to the June vote and fanned concern over a Greek euro exit.  The bank recapitalization plan should be completed as soon
as possible and conditions should be created for deposits to
return, Hatzidakis said. Greek bank deposits held by businesses
and households have declined by 52 billion euros, or 25 percent,
since December 2010.  Greece should speed up state asset sales and real-estate
development because it can be a “significant tool for growth,”
he said. Greece’s economy is in its fifth year of recession.
Repaying 6 billion euros owed by the state to companies will
help the business environment, Hatzidakis said.  Europe  needs to find “definitive solutions” for the debt
crisis, Hatzidakis also said. “It’s now obvious that the
solution lies in a real fiscal union, in enhancing the role of
the  European Central Bank , in common debt management. Markets
won’t calm down until we have reached this point.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Weeks in Athens at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  