-- Asian Tourists Save on Gucci as Euro Weakens, Peso Surges
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n   a n d   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2012-07-04T02:17:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/gucci-savings-draw-thai-tourists-as-peso-buys-more-in-paris-1-.html
Ayie Aligada, a former airline
training manager from  Manila , gained from the Philippine peso’s
4 percent jump against the euro in as many weeks when she
snapped up a Chloe bag for 1,475 euros ($1,857) on a month-long
jaunt through  Europe .  She had plenty of company on her May tour of Paris,
Barcelona and Rome, where Asian shoppers are lining up outside
luxury goods stores. Elaine Chua, 32, a Singaporean homemaker,
went to Paris for four days in April and saved about 1,500
Singapore dollars ($1,178) on a Chanel bag, the price of a
return airfare. Pongsak Luangaram, 41, a lecturer from Bangkok,
dropped a plan to visit Japan and went to  Italy  in May, buying a
Ferrari jacket.  Europe is becoming a more attractive destination for Asians
after the peso surged 19 percent against the euro in the past
year and China’s  yuan  climbed 17 percent. Bookings rose 30
percent in Manila in the first quarter and 12 percent more
Chinese are forecast to visit  France  in 2012. Their spending is
supporting hotels, stores and restaurants as the debt crisis
batters local demand. Ermenegildo Zegna SpA is stocking more
styles favored by the visitors and Prada SpA may raise prices.  “With the slowing economy and lingering debt crisis, the
euro will continue to weaken against Asian currencies,” said
Akira Takei, the Tokyo-based head of the international fixed-
income department at Mizuho Asset Management Co., which oversees
about $41 billion and is part of Japan’s third-biggest publicly
traded bank. “Exchange rates are favorable for Asian shoppers
and tourism businesses in Europe, but the pickup in visitors
won’t be enough to reverse the slump.”  Exchange-Rate Windfall  The  International Monetary Fund  predicts a 7.3 percent
expansion for  Asia ’s developing economies this year and a 0.3
percent contraction in the 17-nation euro area. Italy, Greece
and Portugal are all in recessions, Spain’s economy contracted
0.4 percent from a year earlier in the first quarter, the
Netherlands shrank 0.8 percent and French growth of 0.3 percent
was the slowest since 2009.  The peso touched 52.32 per euro today, its strongest level
since October 2002. The Singapore dollar strengthened 12 percent
in the past year and touched a decade-high S$1.5862 today. The
average rise for Asia’s 11 most-used currencies was 11 percent.  “We had a windfall on the  exchange rate ,” said Aligada,
53, who traveled with her husband, a telephone company executive.  Multilingual Staff  Ermenegildo Zegna, a closely held Italian luxury-goods
maker, is spending “aggressively” on marketing, including
working with tour operators to make sure tourists know where to
find its European outlets, Chief Executive Officer Ermenegildo
Zegna said in a June 23 interview in Milan. The company, which
may see 10 percent sales growth in 2012, has adjusted the sizes
and products and added more multilingual staff, he said.  Prada (1913) , the Italian fashion house, is benefiting from
wealthy Chinese tourists, Chief Executive Officer Patrizio
Bertelli said in an interview in May. A further drop in the euro
may prompt the company to increase prices by as much as 10
percent in Europe, he said.  In the first quarter, tourist arrivals in Italy from Asia
increased 22 percent from a year earlier to 354,000. Their
spending climbed 24 percent to 462 million euros,  Bank of Italy 
data show.  Gucci, Louis Vuitton  Gucci’s sales in Europe were boosted by tourist demand,
according to Jean-Marc Duplaix, chief financial officer of
Paris-based  PPR SA (PP) , the French owner of the luxury brand.  “Local demand was still good in Europe, but it’s true that
the tourist flow contributed significantly to the growth,” he
said on an April 25 conference call, reporting a 15 percent
increase in first-quarter sales.  China imposes  import duties  and taxes of about 30 percent
on luxury bags and more than 50 percent for cosmetics. At Paris-
based  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC) , the yuan’s gain
against the euro widened the gap between its prices in China and
those in France to as much as 47 percent in the first quarter,
Finance Director Jean-Jacques Guiony said at a briefing in April.  Travel and tourism’s total contribution to the European
Union’s gross domestic product was 7.9 percent in 2011,
according to the London-based  World Travel & Tourism Council .  Strong Peso  The number of Chinese visitors to France is likely to rise
12 percent this year to 494,900, while those to Germany may
climb 13 percent to 276,600, according to London-based
 Euromonitor  International. Travelers from Taiwan to Europe in
the first five months increased 8.2 percent from a year earlier
to 101,372, the island’s tourism bureau said.  Rajah Travel Corp., the biggest tour agency in Manila, saw
a 30 percent jump in Europe bookings in the first quarter from a
year earlier thanks to the strength of the peso, according to
President Aileen Clemente. The number of South Koreans heading
to Europe through  Hana Tour Services Inc. (039130) , the nation’s biggest
travel agency, rose more than 6 percent so far in 2012.  Tourists, mainly from Asia, account for between 35 percent
and 60 percent of luxury sales in Europe, according to  Antoine Belge , an analyst at HSBC Holdings Plc in Paris. Tax-free
spending by Chinese tourists in Europe climbed 69 percent in the
first quarter from a year earlier, while that by Malaysian
visitors jumped 54 percent and Thais by 52 percent, according to
tourist shopping specialist  Global Blue  in Nyon, Switzerland.  More Millionaires  The number of individuals in the Asia-Pacific region with
at least $1 million of investable assets increased 1.6 percent
last year to 3.37 million, according to a June 20 report by
 Capgemini SA (CAP)  and RBC Wealth Management. That exceeded the total
in North America, which fell 1.1 percent to 3.35 million.  China, which has a per capita income of $2,425, will almost
triple its millionaires to 1.4 million in three years from
502,000 in 2010,  Julius Baer (BAER)  Group Ltd. and CLSA Asia-Pacific
Markets predicted in a report last year. In the Philippines,
where per capita income increased 32 percent in the last decade
to $1,383, they will climb to 38,000 in 2015 from an estimated
16,000 in 2010, the report showed.  The baht’s 12 percent advance versus the euro in the past
year encouraged Pongsak to buy a  Louis Vuitton  bag for himself
and a Furla one for his wife.  “We made the decision in February for our trip in May,”
said Pongsak. “Given the escalating debt crisis in the  euro
zone , I didn’t expect the euro to strengthen anytime soon.”  ‘Really Cheap’  The baht and the Singapore dollar may each climb by another
3.8 percent per euro in 12 months, while the Philippine peso may
steady, according to the median exchange-rate forecasts in
Bloomberg surveys of analysts.  “I see no reason to not take advantage of the exchange
rate to buy brand names at much cheaper prices,” said Chua, who
bought her gold Chanel Classic bag on the Avenue Montaigne.
“The euro may be even cheaper next year. I’m considering going
back to Paris again.”  Tony Lo, a 26-year-old teacher from  Hong Kong , plans to
visit France this month and buy Bottega Veneta leather goods.  “I’m worried I’ll lose control when I shop because the
euro is really cheap now,” Lo said. “It’s like everything is
10 percent off.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net ;
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 