-- Guinea Pig May Lose in Plan to Privatize Los Angeles Zoo
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2012-07-03T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/guinea-pig-may-lose-in-plan-to-privatize-los-angeles-zoo.html
Los Angeles  taxpayers spent almost
$15 million last year to subsidize the city zoo, enough to pay
300 rookie cops. Expenses included $2,000 to clear up the
bladder infection of a guinea pig named Sophia.  After a decade of deficits, leaders of the second-largest
city by population are considering turning over zoo management
to a private nonprofit to unburden themselves of responsibility
for 1,100 animals and 209 employees.  From  Dallas  to  Milwaukee , cities struggling to maintain
services in the face of rising pension and health-care costs
three years after the end of the recession have transferred zoos
to private operators or are doing so. Los Angeles is looking to
trim expenses as officials anticipate spending $1.2 billion on
pensions in fiscal 2016, from $867 million last fiscal year.  “The dollars we’re paying to feed an elephant are
competing with the dollars we’re paying a police officer,” said
 Miguel Santana , the city’s administrative officer, who has led
the push. “We don’t have one silver bullet to resolve our
fiscal situation. It’s going to take multiple solutions.”  The city of 3.8 million, which sold about $1.3 billion of
short-term notes last month at a smaller relative borrowing cost
than two years ago, is negotiating with the  Greater Los Angeles
Zoo Association .  Weaning Period  The nonprofit, which already handles concessions and
organizes volunteers, would take over zoo operations, including
a program to reintroduce condors into the wild, Santana said in
an interview at  City Hall . Officials also are considering
keeping the current structure.  Officials plan to decide in the next few months. If the
city picks the nonprofit, the change would take place next year,
Santana said. The goal is to wean the zoo off most of its
subsidy, he said.  Local governments have reduced what they consider
nonessential services such as libraries and zoos amid diminished
 tax revenue  from sources including retail sales. Localities cut
payrolls in May to the  lowest  since 2005.  North Carolina lawmakers have been considering a private
operator for the state zoo to shrink a $10.8 million annual
subsidy. After Tulsa,  Oklahoma ’s zoo went private in 2010,
officials were able to expand a staff reduced by budget cuts.
Dallas transferred management of its animals and employees to
the nonprofit Dallas Zoological Society in 2009 with the goal of
saving $1.5 million a year.  Fiscal Stress  In 2011, 57 percent of municipal finance officers said
their cities were less able to meet fiscal needs than in the
previous year, according to a  survey  by the  National League of
Cities .  In Los Angeles, the zoo’s $18.3 million city subsidy for
the year beginning July 1 accounts for about 0.3 percent of the
city budget, according to a summary  document . City officials
 estimated  last year that the subsidy would need to grow to $20.8
million in 2015-16.  The city sold one-year tax-exempt notes last month to yield
0.22 percent, the same as other top-rated debt, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. When it issued notes of that maturity in 2010
the difference above benchmark debt was 0.53 percentage points.  Los Angeles projects debt service this year will cost $3
million for $18.5 million in borrowings for zoo facilities
remaining from general-obligation issues in 1999, 2001 and 2002,
according to Natalie Brill, the city’s chief of debt management.  The bonds helped fund exhibits including for orangutans and
Asian elephants, according to a  fact sheet .  Land Owner  The city would still own the land, enclosures and animals
even if it turns over management, Santana said. The association
would be responsible for employees hired after the handover,
including pensions and other benefits, and would pay them using
revenue including admission fees.  The venue, which opened in 1966, is located northwest of
downtown Los Angeles. It charges adults $16 for admission and
attracted 1.5 million visitors last year, according to its
 website . The San Diego Zoo, operated by a private nonprofit,
charges adults $42 and receives more than 5 million visitors
annually, according to its  website .  Switching to a private operator for Los Angeles may reduce
pay and benefits for employees, diminish emphasis on
conservation and animal-rehabilitation and raise admission fees,
said animal-rights activists and consultants.  “My main concern is that it would become more like an
amusement park,” said Laura Goldman, a Los Angeles native and
animal-rights activist who circulated an online petition last
year opposing the move. “It would be more about entertainment
than learning.”  Hiring Rules  As a city entity, the zoo is hampered by rules on hiring
and procurement and can’t promote itself as freely as a private
operation, Zoo Director  John Lewis  said in an interview in his
office.  “Right now I have a city department that I manage that
tries to be a zoo,” he said. “I’d like to have a zoo that
manages itself as a zoo.”  Under Lewis, Los Angeles zoo veterinarians rarely have to
consider the cost of treatment, said Curtis Eng, chief
veterinarian. In one case, veterinarians spent $2,000 to save
Sophia the guinea pig from a bladder infection and other
maladies even though a similar animal would cost $10 in a pet
store, he said. The rodent has since died.  The zoo’s condor recovery facility epitomizes the park’s
conservation mission.  Condor Compounds  The zoo operates two compounds for breeding condors, which
are on the federal endangered-species list, and reintroducing
them into the wild. It spends $565,000 yearly on condor-related
expenses.  “How do you put a price on saving something from
extinction?” said Jason Jacobs, a spokesman.  The Greater Los Angeles Zoo Association would maintain the
conservation mission, said Connie Morgan, its  executive
director .  “We really want to make sure we maintain and sustain the
zoo as a place of experiencing the wilderness in our city,” she
said. “Conservation is important to us.”  Nonprofits and private companies benefit from being
unshackled by civil-service rules, said David Towne, a former
Seattle zoo director who has consulted for Los Angeles on its
plan.  In Los Angeles, animal keepers earn from $44,892 to $62,496
annually, according to  information  on the city controller’s
website. Ten zoo employees make $100,000 or more.  Like other non-safety city workers, zoo employees with 30
years of experience may  retire  at age 55 with a full pension.
The city also subsidizes retirees’ health care.  “There’s not a private industry that can afford the kind
of benefits that L.A. provides their employees,” Towne said.  Following are pending sales:  OAKLAND,  California , plans to offer about $211 million of
taxable pension-obligation bonds as soon as next week, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The issuance will help boost the
funding ratio to about 70 percent for the city’s Police and Fire
Retirement System, from about 38 percent, according to an
official statement. Moody’s Investors Service rates the
securities Aa3, fourth-highest. (Added July 3)       COLUMBUS,  Ohio , plans to sell about $447 million of
general-obligation bonds through a competitive sale as soon as
July 10, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Proceeds will
be used for capital projects, according to a Fitch Ratings
report. (Updated July 3)  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in Los Angeles at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at   smerelman@bloomberg.net  