-- Micron’s Elpida Purchase Sets Up Samsung Challenge
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n   a n d   I a n   K i n g
-- 2012-07-03T03:52:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/micron-s-elpida-purchase-sets-up-samsung-challenge.html
Micron Technology Inc. (MU) ’s 200 billion
yen ($2.5 billion) purchase of bankrupt Japanese chipmaker
Elpida Memory Inc. will give the U.S. company a stronger
foundation to challenge  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  in the market
for memory used in computers and mobile devices.  “We can see so many synergies and so many opportunities to
really become a much stronger competitor in the memory space,”
Chief Executive Officer Mark Durcan said in a Bloomberg
Television interview today. “While we’re not quite as big as
Samsung, we are now, or will be on the close of this
transaction, the clear No. 2 in the memory industry.”  Acquiring Elpida, an Apple Inc.  supplier , would double
Micron’s share of the global market for DRAM, the most widely
used memory chips in personal computers, to about 24 percent.
The deal also expands Micron’s offering into types of memory
used in smartphones and tablets while giving it greater control
over supply gluts that have caused it to report  losses  amid
falling prices.  Micron will pay 60 billion yen in cash at the closing of
the deal, while the remaining 140 billion yen in future annual
installments through 2019 will come from  cash flow  generated by
Boise, Idaho-based Micron’s payment for chips made by Elpida,
according to a statement yesterday. Micron shares  rose .  “This is a transformative acquisition,” said Dan Berenbaum, an analyst at MKM Partners in  Stamford ,  Connecticut ,
who recommends buying Micron shares. “The structure of the deal
is great. Only $1.1 billion in cash upfront is much lower than
most were expecting.”  Elpida Debt  The deal will settle all of Elpida’s debt. Micron, the
largest U.S. maker of computer memory, won approval from the
Tokyo District Court in May to negotiate to buy Elpida’s entire
business after the Japanese company held two rounds of bidding.
Today’s agreement is subject to court approval, which Elpida
will seek in August, and sign off from Elpida creditors. The
transaction will close in the first half of 2013, Micron said.  Merging the two companies will give Micron 35 percent of
global capacity for dynamic random-access memory, a standardized
chip that’s the most common memory used in computers, and 24
percent of market revenue, Taipei-based  DRAMeXchange  said.
Samsung controlled 41 percent of the market, in revenue terms.  Mobile DRAM  “When we look at the customer base of Micron and Elpida
there’s significant overlap, but there’s also some places where
they’re stronger and we’re weaker,” Durcan said. “Elpida at
the moment has a very strong mobile DRAM offering, and of course
that’s interesting to lots of mobile customers. Apple is one of
those types of customers.”  Micron’s share of the market for mobile DRAM, a specialized
form of memory used in phones and tablets, will almost quadruple
to 19.7 percent from 5 percent, overtaking  SK Hynix (000660) ’s 18.9
percent share and trailing Samsung’s 59.6 percent, the
researcher said.  Mobile memory sells for about four times that of similar
capacity computer memory, according to DRAMeXchange data.
Computer DRAM supply currently exceeds demand with an increase
in price unsustainable, it  said  June 28.  “Given they’re taking mobile DRAM capacity from Elpida, it
could be a threat to Samsung and Hynix in the mid-to-long
term,” said Kim Hyung Sik who rates Samsung and SK Hynix buy at
Taurus Investment Securities Co. in  Seoul . “The whole point of
the acquisition” is Micron’s continued investment in mobile
memory.  Nam Ki Yung, a Seoul-based spokesman for Samsung, declined
to comment on the deal.  Rexchip  Micron rose 3.8 percent to $6.55 at 4 p.m. in  New York 
trading, its fifth consecutive gain. The stock has gained 4.1
percent this year.  In a related transaction, Micron also agreed to buy Taiwan-
based  Powerchip Technology Corp. (5346) ’s 24 percent stake in  Rexchip
Electronics Corp. (4932)  for about NT$10 billion ($334 million). The
deal will give Micron control of manufacturing facilities that
will boost its output by about 200,000 silicon wafers per month,
or 50 percent.  Including Elpida’s stake, Micron will own 88 percent of
Rexchip after the deal, Sandy Kuo, deputy spokeswoman for the
Taichung-based company said by phone today.  Powerchip climbed its daily 6.9 percent limit to 62 NT
cents as of 10:13 a.m. in Taipei, the most since March 3.
Rexchip added 8 percent to NT$10.80 the highest intra-day level
since Feb. 24. Rexchip has no immediate plans to delist from
 Taiwan ’s GreTai over-the-counter exchange, Kuo said.  Bankruptcy Filing  Elpida sought protection from creditors in February after
prices of DRAM chips plummeted. The lower prices and a stronger
yen, which erodes the value of repatriated earnings from
overseas, led to a fifth straight quarter of losses.  SK Hynix, the only company that had publicly expressed
interest in buying Elpida at the time, decided not to
participate in the second round, the Icheon, South Korea-based
manufacturer said May 4.  President Yukio Sakamoto is heading Elpida’s restructuring
efforts as a court-appointed trustee. The company plans to
submit its revival plan by Aug. 21. There was no direct Japanese
government involvement in the deal, Micron’s Durcan said today.  Micron reported a fourth consecutive quarterly loss on June
20 after sluggish demand for personal computers dragged down
chip prices. The company had a net  loss  of $320 million in the
three months that ended May 31, compared with profit of $75
million a year earlier, Micron said.  Elpida Rebound  Elpida’s business is improving, Micron Chief Financial
Officer Ron Foster told analysts on a conference call. The
transaction will begin to contribute to cashflow and earnings
per share within twelve months, he said.  Under the terms of the deal, Micron is getting factories at
less than one third of the cost of building them from scratch
and expects to be able to reduce its spending on plants and
equipment, Durcan said on a conference call.  “Our customers want this deal because we’re not competing
with them,” Durcan said. “You still have to go out and win the
business, but that will help us at the margins.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net ;
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  