-- Hillary’s Moment, Finally
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 2012-07-03T22:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/hillary-s-moment-finally.html
Will the blond flip and sunglasses
be  Hillary Clinton ’s last fashion statement?  To put it another way: Is being a stellar secretary of
State the end of the political line for Clinton? Or will she run
for president again, opening more fissures in the glass ceiling
in which she made  18 million  cracks in 2008?  Clinton’s answer is wistful. She longs for the time “to
collect myself and spend it doing just ordinary things,” she
 said last month . “Like taking a walk without a lot of company.”  For a more satisfying response, tune in to a new show on
USA Network premiering July 15 called “ Political Animals .” In
this season of political dramas ( HBO ’s “Veep” and “Newsroom”),
this one stands out partly because of Sigourney Weaver’s Elaine
Barrish, who is a thinly disguised Clinton. Weaver’s Clinton,
however, has more troublesome offspring (two sons, one of whom
is an addict), a divorce (she dumped her philandering spouse),
and snappier dialogue (she asks a dogged female reporter how it
feels to win awards for “stepping on the throat of someone
else’s marriage”).  If anyone’s life doesn’t need added drama, it’s Clinton’s.
That’s TV for you. Before she was the most admired woman in the
world, she was the most fascinating one, equally endearing and
maddening from the moment she appeared in Life magazine in 1969
after delivering a commencement address at Wellesley criticizing
the prior speaker, Senator Edward Brooke.  Many Firsts  She went on to become first lady of  Arkansas  (the first to
hold a job outside the mansion, famously leaving her no time to
 bake cookies and have tea ), the first woman to become a partner
at the state’s leading law firm, and the first not to take her
husband’s name (until he lost re-election and she swiftly deep-
sixed the Rodham). As first lady of the U.S., she was the first
to run for the Senate (and win) and for president (and lose).
Now as the improbable secretary of State in her former
opponent’s Cabinet, she has one-name, rock-star status around
the world.  So why wouldn’t she take the power accumulated as the most
successful female presidential candidate ever -- and run again?
Clinton has been coy before; in 2004, she began preparing for
the campaign she denied would ever occur. Is she being coy again
when she says she wants to kick back and smell the roses (and
perhaps a grandchild, should one come along)?  Many think so. Former House Speaker  Nancy Pelosi , former
Democratic National Committee Chairman and Pennsylvania Governor
 Ed Rendell  and, of course, former President  Bill Clinton  have
mused that she will run. There was even a rumor she might
challenge  Barack Obama  for the 2012 nomination. (Hogwash, her
staff said.) Then there was the spate of talk about Clinton and
Vice President Joe Biden trading places. (Just as absurd.) Now
there is constant musing over what would be the next perfect job
for Clinton, as if she’s actively searching. President of the
 World Bank ? Secretary of Defense? Supreme Court justice?  All this speculation is a testament to the remarkable job
Clinton has done as secretary of State. She’s still the best
student in class, mastering every detail, taking every trip,
attending every meeting, not leaving a country until after she
has thanked the foreign service staff there.  With the benefit of a serious traveling press corps, she’s
shifted attention away from her headband to her head. She reaps
much of the credit for handling the Libyan uprising and little
of the blame for Iraq and  Afghanistan  (although  Syria  looms
ready to flummox everyone). The parallel government her
detractors said she would set up in Foggy Bottom never
materialized. She has been nothing but loyal to the president,
and Obama appreciates her all the more as an expert on how to
live in the White House fishbowl.  Hunted, Haunted  Could it be that suffering has made Clinton whole?  Much of her time in the White House, she was hunted and
haunted by forces beyond her control. While she may be sleepless
now in multiple time zones, she can rest knowing she’s the
master of her fate. She can let go with the big laugh in public
that her friends knew in private, toss back Bellinis with
journalists in  Rome , drink beer and dance with State Department
staff in Cartagena. (This last earned her the headline
“Swillary” in the  New York  Post.)  What would have sent her into damage-control mode in the
1990s now makes her want to join in the fun. Take the example of
 Texts From Hillary , which used a photo of her in big, dark
glasses on a big, wide military plane sending a text message as
the basis for a Tumblr of made-up captions, mostly to and from
celebrities. In one made-up exchange, Obama asks, “Hey Hil,
whatchu doing?” “Running the world,” she answers crisply. A
concerned citizen writes, “It’s 3 am and I think something’s
happening.” Hillary replies, “On it.”  The site became a viral sensation, and instead of
protesting it, Clinton got into it. The real “Hilz” texted the
site’s founders, saying it had her ROFL and inviting them over
for a visit.  What didn’t kill Clinton made her stronger -- and more at
peace. In two roller-coaster decades, Clinton has suffered
crushingly low poll numbers as first lady, the suicide of her
best friend in the White House, her husband’s humiliating affair
and impeachment, and her own devastating defeat at the hands of
the upstart she now works for. She has discovered other ways to
be happy than being president.  Hillary has not only endured, she  has prevailed . What comes
next in her public life may be less important than what she has
found in her inner life.  ( Margaret Carlson  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  Alexander Hamilton’s lessons
for the euro  and on why the  European Central Bank  should assume
a much larger role in  resolving the euro-area crisis ; Clive
Crook on last week’s  botched euro summit ; John Shaw on U.S.
 socialists and their patriotic songs .  To contact the writer of this article:
Margaret Carlson at   mcarlson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net  