-- IMF Lowers U.S. Growth Projections to 2 Percent
-- B y   I a n   K a t z
-- 2012-07-03T17:51:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/imf-lowers-u-s-growth-projections-to-2-percent.html
The U.S. economy will grow by 2
percent this year and about 2.25 percent in 2013 amid a
“tepid” recovery and the  European debt crisis , the
 International Monetary Fund  said, lowering its previous
projections.  The U.S. remains “subject to elevated downside risks, in
light of financial strains in the euro area and uncertainty over
domestic fiscal plans,” the IMF said in a statement today. In
an April report, the IMF forecast U.S. growth of 2.1 percent
this year and 2.4 percent in 2013.  “Further easing” by the  Federal Reserve  might be needed
“if the situation was to deteriorate,” IMF Managing Director
 Christine Lagarde  said at a press conference in Washington
today. She said she welcomed previous actions by the Fed to help
the U.S. economy, including the expansion of the so-called
Operation Twist that replaces short-term Treasuries in the Fed’s
portfolio with longer-term debt to lengthen the average maturity
of its holdings.  Lagarde said the “downside risks” include the euro crisis
and the “fiscal cliff” of expiring tax cuts and mandatory
spending reductions that will take effect at the end of the year
unless Congress acts.  She said the risk of U.S. lawmakers not reaching an
agreement on the federal debt ceiling “is also a clear
potential for financial market disruption.” Treasury Secretary
 Timothy F. Geithner  has said the executive branch has “tools”
that can push back raising the debt limit until early 2013.  Debt Worries  Lagarde told  Judy Woodruff  in a Bloomberg Television
interview today that debt is the “big problem” for the U.S.  “No country can go on with heavy and growing debt,”
Lagarde said. “In order to bring the debt under control, action
needs to be taken over a period of time. That is not just next
year, that is going to extend for the next 10 years. And it
needs to be gradual, not so contractionary that the economy
stalls.”  The  U.S. economy  expanded at a 1.9 percent pace in the
first quarter, the same as previously estimated, and slower than
the 3 percent pace in the prior three months, revised data
showed last week.  To combat flagging growth, Fed policy makers said they are
ready to take more steps should the U.S. expansion slacken. Fed
officials said in a policy statement June 20 that they expect
“economic growth to remain moderate over coming quarters and
then to pick up very gradually.”  Manufacturing Shrinks  Manufacturing in the U.S. unexpectedly shrank in June for
the first time since the economy emerged from the recession
three years ago, indicating a mainstay of the expansion may be
faltering.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s  index  fell to 49.7,
worse than the most pessimistic forecast in a Bloomberg News
survey, from 53.5 in May, the Tempe, Arizona-based group’s
report showed yesterday. Figures of less than 50 signal
contraction. Measures of orders, production and export demand
dropped to three-year lows.  Stocks rose today as a government report showed factory
orders topped estimates. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose
0.6 percent to 1,374.02 at 1:48 p.m. in  New York .  Orders placed with U.S. factories rose 0.7 percent in May,
the first gain in three months, the Commerce Department said
today. The median forecast of economists in a Bloomberg News
survey called for a 0.1 percent increase.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Katz in  Washington  at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  