-- IMF Urges Germany to Work With Europe on Debt Crisis
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2012-07-03T13:47:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/imf-urges-germany-to-work-with-europe-on-crisis.html
The  International Monetary Fund  urged
 Germany  to work with its European partners to “address the
challenges” posed by the debt crisis in the 17-nation euro area
and increase spending if needed.  The German economy,  Europe ’s largest, has had a “sharp
rebound” in growth and is poised to recover in the face of the
drag from the turmoil, the IMF said in reports released today in
Washington. That recovery is at risk if the crisis spills over
into Germany’s economy and financial system, the IMF said.  “The main priorities in the period ahead will be to manage
the transition to domestic demand-led growth, secure financial
stability, and address the challenges posed by the euro-area
crisis in conjunction with European partners,” according to the
Washington-based lender. It estimated German economic growth at
1 percent this year and 1.4 percent in 2013.  Chancellor Angela Merkel  has pledged her full support to
maintaining the euro common currency. At the same time, she has
resisted proposals for debt-sharing in the form of euro bonds in
the 17-nation area.  While most of the IMF officials responsible for the report
view Germany’s deficit-cutting policies as appropriate and would
advocate higher spending only in the event of a “serious
economic downturn,” a minority want Merkel to lessen austerity
to “aid the regional and global economic recovery.”  Downside Risks  Germany’s near-term economic outlook faces downside risks,
including a “strong intensification” of the crisis and a drop
in global growth, the IMF said.  An IMF staff report released today said: “The main risk
facing Germany is an intensification of the euro-area crisis,
which would spill over into Germany through real and financial
channels.”  “While German banks are generally meeting the minimum
levels of required regulatory capital and have ample liquidity,
they remain highly leveraged, dependent on wholesale funding,
have low capital quality and profitability, and some
institutions are significantly exposed to the euro area
periphery,” the IMF said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kearns in  Washington  at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  