-- India May Lift Iron Ore Mining Ban in Karnataka State This Month
-- B y   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r
-- 2012-07-03T09:32:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/india-may-lift-iron-ore-mining-ban-in-karnataka-state-this-month.html
Iron ore  mining in  India ’s Karnataka
state, banned for the past year on environmental concerns, may
resume as early as this month, easing shortages of the commodity
used by  JSW Steel Ltd. (JSTL)  and rivals.  “Some iron ore mines where no illegality has been found
will be the first where mining will be allowed,” according to
orders by the  Supreme Court ,  H.R. Srinivasa , the state’s mines
director and a member of a committee appointed by the court,
said today by phone. Mining was halted in the state in July 2011
and extended to two other regions the following month.  Resuming mining will boost supplies to  steel mills 
including JSW Steel, the nation’s third-biggest producer, that
cut output on the ore shortage. JSW, operator of the region’s
biggest factory, cut production to as low as 30 percent in
September from its mill in Vijayanagar.  India’s Supreme Court allowed only state-run  NMDC Ltd. (NMDC) , the
nation’s largest iron ore producer, to mine as much as 1 million
metric tons a month and ordered all sales, including stockpiles,
to be conducted through online auctions.  In April, the court ordered 45 mines to seek government
approval to resume operations. Companies need an endorsement
from the Ministry of Environment and Forests once their licenses
have been checked, it said on April 20.  “The court process is being followed and I expect
production will start showing from the second week of August,”
Srinivasa said in a phone interview from the southern city of
Bangalore. He’s also responsible for auctioning iron ore in the
state and NMDC’s output. “The current inventory and production
from NMDC will be enough to meet requirements of steelmakers
till the end of next month.”  The court-appointed committee has identified 5 million tons
of new ore inventory in the state that it will auction to meet
local needs, he said. Since October, 23 million tons of ore have
been sold via online auctions, including about 3 million tons
from NMDC, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abhishek Shanker in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  