-- Intel Says EU Fine Based on Simplistic, Flawed Analysis
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i   a n d   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-07-03T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/intel-says-eu-fine-based-on-simplistic-flawed-analysis.html
Intel Corp. (INTC) ’s 1.06 billion-euro
($1.33 billion) fine by the European Union for using rebates to
block rivals is based on an inconsistent, simplistic and error-
ridden analysis, company lawyers told an EU appeals court.  The European Commission, the EU’s antitrust regulator,
failed to provide the required proof to uphold its 2009 decision
and ignored “potentially exculpatory” documents from a
competitor and failed to record a meeting with a Dell Inc.
executive, Intel lawyers said.  “Prosecutors cannot pick and choose what evidence to
record and which to ignore and thereby prevent exculpatory
evidence,” Nicholas Green, a lawyer for Intel, told the EU
General Court in Luxembourg in its opening arguments of a
hearing scheduled to last four days. “It represents a wider
systemic failure by the commission” and “must lead to the
decision being set aside.”  The EU probe found that Intel impeded competition by giving
rebates to computer makers from 2002 until 2005 on the condition
that they buy at least 95 percent of chips for personal
computers from Intel. The company imposed “restrictive
conditions” for the remaining 5 percent, supplied by  Advanced
Micro Devices Inc. (AMD) , which struggled to overcome Intel’s hold on
the market for PC processors, the EU said.  Simplistic, Static  “The commission simply has not met the burden of proof,”
Green said. “The commission’s analysis is simplistic and static
and fails to capture the dynamics of competition.”  At the time, had companies such as Dell and Hewlett-Packard
Co. bought chips from AMD, it “would have had a threatening
effect” on Intel, said Nicholas Khan, a lawyer for the
commission. Intel opted to shut out AMD with the rebates
“unless or until it could rise to that technological
challenge,” he said.  The computer makers allegedly coaxed to avoid AMD’s chips
included Acer Inc.,  Dell (DELL) , Hewlett-Packard, Lenovo Group Ltd. and
NEC Corp., the commission said in 2009. Intel made payments to
Metro AG’s electronics retailer Media Markt on the condition
that it only sell Intel-based PCs, the EU said. It ordered Intel
to stop using illegal rebates to thwart competitors, an
instruction that Intel complained was unclear.  Customer Loyalty  “Intel needed to increase its customers’ loyalty,” Khan
said. “The industry was rife with the sort of practices which
were condemned by this decision.”  The EU began investigating after AMD complained in 2000
about the rebates.  Santa Clara , California-based Intel agreed to
pay AMD $1.25 billion in 2009 to end all litigation by the
rival.  In August 2010, Intel settled an antitrust case with the
U.S. Federal Trade Commission and agreed not to give computer
makers discounts or other inducements in exchange for promises
they will buy chips exclusively from Intel.  Intel said in May it expects “record revenues” in 2012
with growth in the mobile-phone market adding to its 80 percent
market share for PC chips.  Numerous Errors  Intel’s appeal claims there are numerous errors in the EU
decision, including that it failed to include notes from a
witness who was “highly likely” to provide evidence supporting
Intel’s argument that its rebates to PC makers weren’t
conditional on excluding AMD from the market. The company also
said the EU should have sought documents from AMD in U.S.
proceedings that were “potentially exculpatory” and given
Intel an additional hearing to defend itself.  Intel wouldn’t have been able to get the disputed documents
from AMD, because of the lawsuit between the two companies,
Green said.  “One had to be in the midst of the heat of battle in
 Delaware  to understand how hostile the litigation was,” Green
said. “All the commission had to do was ask.”  The commission says Intel has no basis to claim that a 2006
meeting with a Dell executive was crucial to its case.  “Intel repeatedly accuses the commission of speculation,
but the greater speculation comes from Intel,” said Khan. It
was “highly unlikely” that the Dell meeting would have
supplied evidence to help Intel, because the same executive also
gave evidence over several days in a U.S. lawsuit.  Not Adduced  “Yet we’re led to believe in a meeting with the commission
he disclosed something that wasn’t adduced” in discussions in
other jurisdictions and in follow-up documents, Khan said.  The competition ruling has already been criticized by the
EU’s own ombudsman, who said in 2009 that the antitrust agency
was guilty of “maladministration” for failing to record notes
of a meeting with  Round Rock , Texas-based Dell. The report
wasn’t binding on the commission, which disagreed on the need
for formal minutes.  The antitrust fine was the EU’s biggest, more than double
the 497 million-euro penalty against  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  in 2004. It
represented about 4 percent of Intel’s $37.6 billion in  sales  in
2008, below the maximum penalty of 10 percent of annual sales
regulators can impose.  Sunnyvale, California-based AMD, which initiated the EU
antitrust case, is no longer involved in the case and won’t
intervene at this week’s hearing after settling with Intel,
according to court records.  The case is T-286/09 Intel Corp. v. Commission.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aoife White in  Luxembourg  at
   awhite62@bloomberg.net  and;
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg
at   sbodoni@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 