-- Iran Oil Tankers’ Position Signals Spur Export Speculation
-- B y   R o b   S h e r i d a n   a n d   M i c h e l l e   W i e s e   B o c k m a n n
-- 2012-07-03T15:04:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/iran-oil-tankers-position-signals-spur-export-speculation-1-.html
The number of Iranian  oil tankers 
signaling their locations and destinations rose from June,
prompting speculation the country facing U.S. and European Union
sanctions is selling cargoes that were stored at sea.  Thirty-three ships in the 40-strong fleet of crude carriers
controlled by Tehran-based NITC, a tanker company owned by
Iranian pension funds, provided signals within the past month,
 IHS Inc. (IHS)  data compiled by Bloomberg showed today. That compared
with 21 in the corresponding period to June 11.  China, the biggest buyer of Iranian crude, was exempted
June 28 from U.S. sanctions that took effect that day. Japan,
Singapore and India are among 20 nations that also received
waivers. Iran, which faces an EU embargo begun July 1, raised
storage on tankers to as much as 42 million barrels by the end
of May, the  International Energy Agency  said June 13. It also
stored in the second quarters of 2008 and 2010.  “Maybe they sold the cargoes and they are en route,”
Sverre Bjorn Svenning, a shipping analyst at Fearnley
Consultants A/S in Oslo, said by phone today. “Since there are
exemptions for these major Asian importers, perhaps they are
able to sell the cargoes.”  About 65 percent of NITC’s fleet is bound for ports in the
 Persian Gulf , according to the latest data from IHS. The
remaining tankers were heading for destinations including Asia,
 Egypt  and Venezuela, the data show.  Iran’s Revolutionary Guard Corps “successfully” fired
several long- and shorter-range missiles during military
exercises that began yesterday, the official  Islamic Republic
News Agency  reported. Missiles with ranges of as much as 1,300
kilometers (800 miles) were tested against bases modeled after
those of enemies outside the region, General Amir-Ali Hajizadeh
said, according to a report by the state-run Mehr news agency.
Dozens of Shahab-3 missiles were fired, Mehr said separately.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rob Sheridan in London at 
 rsheridan6@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Wiese Bockmann in London at 
 mwiesebockma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  