-- Iran Tanker Flagging Threatens Tanzania-U.S. Ties, Lawmaker Says
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2012-07-03T13:49:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/iran-tanker-flagging-threatens-tanzania-u-s-ties-lawmaker-says.html
Tanzania  must reverse the decision
allowing Iranian  oil tankers  to register in the country or face
a breakdown in its ties with the U.S., a member of Congress
wrote in a letter to the East African nation’s president.  NITC, an oil-tanker company owned by Iranian pension funds,
renamed at least 10 of its vessels and switched them to a
Tanzanian flag, according to the Equasis shipping database
maintained by the European Commission. The move will assist  Iran 
in evading U.S. and European sanctions, Representative Howard Berman wrote in a June 29 letter to President Jakaya Kikwete, a
copy of which was posted on the congressman’s website.  “The decision to accept the re-flagging of NITC vessels
casts a shadow over Tanzania’s international reputation,” wrote
Berman of  California , the top Democrat on the House Committee on
 Foreign Affairs . “If Tanzania were to allow Iranian vessels to
remain under Tanzanian registry, we in the Congress would have
no choice but to consider whether to continue the range of
bilateral U.S. programs with Tanzania.”  Iran is subject to U.S., European Union and United Nations
sanctions over its nuclear program, which the U.S. and EU say is
designed to produce atomic weapons and the government in Tehran
says is for civilian purposes. The nation is the second-biggest
producer in OPEC after Saudia Arabia, and a full EU ban on its
oil shipments began July 1. The only tankers signaling Kharg
Island, Iran’s biggest oil-export terminal, as their destination
yesterday belonged to NITC, ship-tracking data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Insuring Cargoes  EU sanctions ban transporting or insuring Iranian oil, and
the concentration of the maritime insurance industry in  London 
means the curbs apply to almost all tankers. The Iranian fleet
can handle 1.1 million barrels a day, compared with current
sales of 2.3 million barrels, investment bank Dahlman Rose & Co.
estimates. Daily exports will probably drop by 1 million barrels
to about 1.5 million barrels this year, according to the Paris-
based  International Energy Agency .  Ownership of the reflagged vessels was switched from NITC
to new companies operating from the same address in Tehran and
NITC remains the operator, the Equasis shipping database shows.
They were previously registered in Malta or Cyprus.  Zanzibar’s Minister for Communications and Infrastructure
Hamad Masoud Hamad told the country’s parliament June 29 that a
Bloomberg News story on June 25 reporting the reflagging was
inaccurate because the tankers aren’t Iranian. His comments were
reported in Tanzania’s state-run Daily News. The minister’s list
of 11 reflagged tankers that were previously registered in Malta
or Cyprus match 10 of those on the Equasis database.  Civic United  Three calls to the minister’s mobile phone yesterday and
today weren’t answered. Salva Rweyemamu, a spokesman for
Tanzania’s president, didn’t answer three calls to his mobile
phone yesterday and today or respond to an e-mail. Jussa Ismail
Jussa, a spokesman for Hamad’s Civic United Front party, didn’t
answer three calls to his mobile phone yesterday and today.  Zanzibar is an Indian Ocean archipelago in a political
union with mainland Tanzania. The U.S. has proposed $571 million
in foreign assistance to Tanzania for fiscal year 2013, Adam
Sharon, a spokesman for Berman, said in an e-mail. That includes
funding for foreign military financing, global health aid and
international military education, Sharon said.  Registering the ships in Tanzania breaches President  Barack
Obama ’s Executive Order 13608, signed on May 1, Berman said in
his letter. That allows for sanctions to be imposed on any
entity, including foreign governments, who assist Iran in
evading U.S. sanctions, he said. Berman and Senator Bob Menendez, a New Jersey Democrat, have proposed legislation that
would require the Treasury Department to target NITC.  ‘International Scrutiny’  NITC is subject to Iran-related sanctions,  John Sullivan , a
spokesman for the Treasury, said in an e-mailed response to
questions. “We are aggressively monitoring Iranian vessel
issues and efforts by Iran to evade sanctions and international
scrutiny,” Sullivan wrote.  “All the activities of our oil ministry are based on
international norms and rumors that are spread should not have a
negative impact,”  Ramin Mehmanparast , a spokesman for the
Iranian Foreign Ministry, said today in Tehran in response to
questions about NITC vessels being reflagged.  A contact telephone number provided by the office of Hamid
Behbahani, NITC’s chairman, wasn’t answered today and there was
no opportunity to leave a message. Habib-ullah Seyedan, NITC’s
commercial director, was unavailable for comment, a person
answering the phone in his office said. Neither Behbahani nor
Seyedan responded to e-mails seeking comment today.  Data compiled from public sources show that of the 39
Iranian tankers originally registered in Cyprus and Malta, 21
were recently renamed or reflagged, said  Mark Dubowitz ,
 executive director  at the Foundation for Defense of Democracies
in  Washington  and a sanctions specialist who has advised the
Obama administration.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  