-- Iran Convenes Discussions Amid Maneuvers in Persian Gulf
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e   a n d   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2012-07-03T14:42:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/iran-convenes-talks-amid-maneuvers-in-persian-gulf.html
Iran , in the middle of a three-day
military exercise in the  Persian Gulf , convened a meeting with
world powers in Istanbul in search of a diplomatic solution to
the nation’s nuclear work.  Chinese, French, German, Russian, U.K. and U.S. diplomats,
known as the P5+1 group, will meet their Iranian counterparts
today to review unresolved issues from their previous
discussions. The sides downgraded the talks to a “technical
level” after high-level negotiations on June 20 in Moscow
failed to yield a compromise.  “We hope Iran will seize the opportunity of this meeting
to show a willingness to take concrete steps to urgently meet
the concerns of the international community, to build confidence
in the peaceful nature of  Iran’s nuclear program  and to meet its
international obligations,”  Catherine Ashton , the European
Union foreign policy chief, said yesterday in a statement.  Two days after a European oil embargo took effect on July
1, Iran’s Revolutionary Guard Corps fired long-range missiles as
part of a war game targeting potential enemies, state media
reported. Iran’s parliament is working on legislation to close
the  Strait of Hormuz , passage to a fifth of the world’s traded
oil, to  oil tankers  linked to countries applying the embargo.  The increased Persian Gulf tension caused  oil prices  to
rise. Oil for August delivery climbed $3.62, or 4.3 percent, to
$87.37 a barrel at 10:22 a.m. on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . Brent for August settlement traded above $100 a barrel
for the first time since June 11.  Confidence, Trust  “To come to agreement, there need to be confidence-
building measures and an atmosphere of trust which is two-
sided,” Iran Foreign Ministry spokesman  Ramin Mehmanparast  said
today at a briefing in Tehran. “It is necessary that our rights
are recognized and respected.”  The P5+1 negotiators have said they want Iran to stop 20
percent-enrichment work, shut down its mountainside Fordo atomic
facility and ship out stockpiled 20 percent-enriched nuclear
materials. Iran has said it wants recognition of its right to
enrich uranium, a lifting of sanctions and increased atomic-
technology transfer and a regional-security accord.  Enrichment  A central issue in the negotiations is whether Iran will
stop producing 20 percent-enriched uranium, a level of purity a
step short of bomb grade, and move current stockpiles out of the
country to show that it isn’t seeking the capability to produce
atomic weapons.  Western powers contend Iran is hiding a nuclear-weapons
program, and the U.S. and  Israel  have declined to discount the
possibility of military strikes against its atomic
installations.  “The pressure track is our primary focus now, and we
believe the economic sanctions are bringing Iran to the table,”
U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said in a June 30
interview with Bloomberg Radio in Geneva. “They are going to
continue to increase and cause economic difficulties for them.”  Iran has repeatedly called the under dozens of
international sanctions targeting its energy and finance
industries illegal.  “Illegal and irrational actions taken by the U.S. and the
EU against Iran and its people are aggressive actions and
considered against the country’s national security,”
Mehmanparast said. Iran “will use all its power to maintain
security in the Persian Gulf so the transit of energy is
properly conducted.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net ;
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  