-- This Land Was Made for You, Me and Its Critics
-- B y   J o h n   S h a w
-- 2012-07-03T22:30:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/this-land-was-made-for-you-me-and-its-critics.html
With the celebration this month of
the 100th anniversary of Woody Guthrie’s birth, festivals,
academic symposia and new collections of his music are bringing
renewed attention to “This Land Is Your Land,” one of the U.S.’s
unofficial anthems. And it is becoming more widely recognized
that some versions of the song featured lyrics not normally
associated with patriotism -- words reflecting Guthrie’s
communist beliefs.  What may not be so well-known is that “ This Land Is Your
Land ” belongs to an American tradition of patriotic pieces made
by critics of capitalism. The authors of the Pledge of
Allegiance and “America the Beautiful” also took a distinctly
leftist view of the U.S. economic system.  Make no mistake, Guthrie was a patriot. In May 1941, months
before  Japan  attacked  Pearl Harbor , he ended his song “Pastures
of Plenty” with the pledge, “My land I’ll defend with my life if
it be / ’Cause my pastures of plenty must always be free.” When
the war reached the U.S., he volunteered for the Merchant
Marine, and in his three voyages across the Atlantic, two ships
sank under him, one hit by a torpedo, another sunk by a mine.  Nevertheless, Guthrie was also a Communist sympathizer.
Evidence suggests that he never officially joined the party. In
an article he wrote for the Communist newspaper People’s World,
he deflected the question with humor: “I ain’t a communist
necessarily,” he wrote, “but I been in the red all my life.”  One verse of “This Land Is Your Land” that Guthrie
apparently never recorded, laments the Depression. “By the
relief office, I saw my people -- / As they stood there hungry,
I stood there wondering if / This land was made for you and me.”
Another attacks the concept of private property. In a recording
he made in the 1940s, Guthrie sang, “There was a big high wall
there that tried to stop me. / A sign was painted said: Private
Property. / But on the back side it didn’t say nothing -- / This
land was made for you and me.”  Guthrie was following in a line of artistic critics running
back to Francis Bellamy, a former Baptist minister and a member
of the Society of Christian Socialists, who composed the  Pledge
of Allegiance  in 1892, in honor of the 400th anniversary of
 Christopher Columbus ’s landing.  Bellamy gave considerable thought to what should go into
the Pledge. Most important was the republic for which the flag
stands. With the Civil War a living memory, “indivisible” was
crucial, too. Then, being a Christian Socialist, he considered
“liberty, equality, fraternity” -- ultimately rejecting these in
favor of “liberty and justice.”  The following year, Katharine Lee Bates, a Wellesley
professor of English and a socialist sympathizer, penned
“ America the Beautiful .” A little-known stanza in the original
1895 publication critiques the greed of the Gilded Age,
concluding: “America! America! / God shed His grace on thee, /
Till selfish gain no longer stain / The banner of the free!”
Bates not only made fraternity central to her hymn -- “crown thy
good with brotherhood” -- but also portrayed her fellow
citizens’ drive for “selfish gain” as a “stain” upon freedom’s
flag.  In subsequent revisions, Bates toned down the criticism.
The final version reads, “America! America! / May God thy gold
refine / Till all success be nobleness / And every gain divine!”  That three of our most beloved patriotic texts were written
by critics of our economic system speaks well of our freedoms.
Criticism of country does not preclude loyalty -- or love.  (John Shaw is a musician and writer in  Seattle  who is
writing a history of America’s national songs. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  Alexander Hamilton ’s lessons
for the euro and on why the  European Central Bank  should assume
a much larger role in  resolving the euro-area crisis ;  Margaret
Carlson  on  Hillary Clinton ’s  search for inner peace ; Clive Crook
on last week’s  botched euro summit .  To contact the writer of this article:
John Shaw at  johnshawtoo@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 