-- Israel’s Kadima Party Chief Urges Withdrawal From Coalition
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 2012-07-17T15:52:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/israel-s-kadima-says-it-may-leave-coalition-over-draft-issue-1-.html
The leader of  Israel ’s Kadima party,
the biggest in parliament, called for withdrawing from Prime
Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu ’s coalition after failing to agree
on legislation for drafting ultra-Orthodox men into the army.  A party vote on Kadima’s pull-out later today comes about
two months after its leader, Shaul Mofaz, struck a surprise deal
with Netanyahu to join forces and create the biggest government
alliance in 20 years with 94 seats in the 120-member Knesset.
Netanyahu, chairman of the Likud party, still commands a
majority in parliament without Kadima’s 28 seats.  “There’s no escape from leaving the coalition,” Mofaz
told Kadima members in remarks broadcast on Israel Radio from
party headquarters in Petach Tikva, Israel.  Kadima joined Netanyahu’s coalition on May 8 after the
prime minister promised to change government policy that allows
ultra-Orthodox men to defer mandatory military service as long
as they are engaged in full-time religious studies. Broadening
the coalition nullified plans to hold early national elections
in September, which Netanyahu had called amid strains between
his allied parties.  Netanyahu said last week that changes to drafting the
ultra-Orthodox must be made gradually to avoid exacerbating
tensions. He has been in negotiations with Mofaz since to try to
come up with a compromise.  National Service  Working out a national service policy for the ultra-
Orthodox, or haredim as they are called in Israel, would enable
more of them to enter the workforce. The ultra-Orthodox may be
subject to the draft if they leave seminary studies to look for
work.  About 45 percent of ultra-Orthodox men work, compared with
about 80 percent of other Jewish males in Israel, according to
the  Bank of Israel . While the ultra-Orthodox make up about 8
percent to 10 percent of the population, they will represent 17
percent of working-age Israelis in 20 years because of their
high birthrate, according to the Bank of Israel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in  Tel Aviv  at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  