-- Japan Stock Futures Rise on U.S. Factory Data, Stimulus
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-07-03T23:09:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/japan-stock-futures-rise-on-u-s-factory-data-stimulus.html
Japanese and Australian stock futures
rose as U.S. factory orders topped estimates and commodities
climbed to a two-month high amid speculation central bank action
will boost economic growth.  American Depositary Receipts of  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the
world’s largest mining company, climbed 1.9 percent as raw-
materials surged. ADRs of  Komatsu Ltd. (6301) , a Japanese maker of
construction equipment that generates 23 percent of sales in the
U.S., advanced 0.6 percent. Those of  Nissan Motor Co. (7201)  advanced
0.9 percent as its North American sales rose 28 percent,
exceeding the 21 percent average estimate of analysts.  Futures on Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average expiring in
September closed at 9,145 in Chicago yesterday, up from 9,070 in
Osaka, Japan. They were bid in the pre-market at 9,140 in Osaka
at 8:05 a.m. local time. Futures on Australia’s S&P/ASX 200
Index advanced 0.7 percent today. New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index
rose 0.5 percent in Wellington.  “It is wrong to be too bearish about equities,” said
 Garry Evans , head of global equity strategy at HSBC Holdings Plc
in Hong Kong. “We expect growth in the region to reaccelerate
in the second half of this year as authorities step up their
policy response to the current slowdown. A positive policy
response could have a profound impact on Asia’s stock markets,
given the current high level of risk aversion.”  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index were little
changed today, with equity markets closed for a holiday. The
underlying stock gauge climbed 0.6 percent to a two-month high
yesterday after data showed factory orders rose in May for the
first time in three months.  U.S. Growth  The International Monetary Fund yesterday cut its growth
forecast for the  U.S. economy  as Managing Director  Christine
Lagarde  said further monetary policy easing may be needed by the
 Federal Reserve  if the situation was to deteriorate. The U.S.
economy will grow by 2 percent this year, the IMF said in a
statement yesterday, cutting its previous 2.1 percent estimate.  The  MSCI Asia-Pacific (MXAP)  has climbed to its highest level
since May 10 after euro-zone leaders last week agreed to relax
conditions for recapitalizing lenders, easing concern about the
debt region’s crisis.  The  European Central Bank  and the Bank of England
announce interest-rate decisions tomorrow. ECB officials will
lower their benchmark rate by 25 basis points to a record low
0.75 percent, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg
survey of 57 economists.  China Stimulus  China may cut lenders’ reserve requirements to increase
liquidity in the banking system, according to a commentary on
the front page of yesterday’s China Securities Journal, which is
published by the official Xinhua News Agency. The People’s Bank
of China announced a cut to  interest rates  on June 7, a day
after the newspaper published a commentary urging the move.  The Asian benchmark gained 4.3 percent this year through
yesterday, compared with a 9.3 percent advance by the S&P 500
and a 5.3 percent increase by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index. Stocks
on the Asian benchmark are valued at 12 times estimated earnings
on average, compared with a multiple of 13.1 for the S&P 500 and
10.8 times for the Stoxx 600.  The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of raw materials
climbed 3 percent yesterday to its highest level since May 10.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese companies in New York added 1.3 percent to 91.76
yesterday in  New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  