-- Japan’s Topix Hits Two-Month High on Easing Expectations
-- B y   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a
-- 2012-07-03T06:08:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/japan-stocks-rise-on-expectations-of-easing-from-fed-ecb.html
Japanese  stocks  rose, with the  Topix (MXAP) 
Index closing at a two-month high, on expectations shrinking U.S.
manufacturing may spur the  Federal Reserve  to ease policy and
that the  European Central Bank  will cut rates to contain the
debt crisis after the region’s unemployment hit a record high.  Canon Inc. (7751) , a camera maker that gets nearly 60 percent of
its sales from the Americas and Europe, gained 1.3 percent.
Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc., Japan’s No. 2 bank by
market value, climbed 1.6 percent after the sector’s rating was
upgraded by  Daiwa Securities  Group Inc.  Kawasaki Kisen Kaisha
Ltd. (9107)  plunged 15 percent after the shipping line said it will
sell shares equivalent to a quarter of its market value.  The Topix rose 1 percent to 777.11 at 3 p.m. in  Tokyo , the
highest close since May 2. About four shares rose for each that
fell. The benchmark  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  added 0.7 percent
to 9,066.59, with volume about equal to the 30-day average.  “Expectations the Fed and ECB may take action to prevent
the real economy from deteriorating are supporting stocks,”
said Koichi Kurose, chief economist in Tokyo at Resona Bank Ltd.,
which manages about $75 billion. “Negative economic data has
already been factored into stock prices.”  The Topix has fallen 11 percent from its peak on March 27
as growth in the U.S. and China slows amid concern Europe’s debt
crisis is spreading. The decline has cut the  price  of shares on
the gauge to 1.1 times book value, compared with 2.2 times for
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and 1.4 times for the Europe
Stoxx 600 Index. A number less than one means that companies can
be bought for less than value of their assets.  Easing Expectations  Shares rose on optimism for additional policy easing after
U.S. manufacturing unexpectedly shrank in June for the first
time since the world’s biggest economy emerged from a recession
three years ago, indicating a pillar of the expansion may be
faltering, a report showed yesterday.  The contraction may encourage more accommodative policies,
Princeton University economist  Alan Blinder  said in an interview
on Bloomberg Television.  “Data like this that keep coming in are encouraging or
strengthening the positions of the doves on the Fed,” said
Blinder, a former vice chairman at the central bank.  Canon climbed 1.3 percent to 3,195 yen. Mitsubishi Motors
Corp., an automaker that gets almost 40 percent of its sales
from the U.S. and Europe, gained 2.5 percent to 81 yen.  Futures on the  S&P 500  added 0.1 percent today. The gauge
gained 0.3 percent in New York yesterday as takeovers helped the
market recover from earlier losses triggered by reports of
shrinking manufacturing. Among the deals announced, Micron
Technology Inc. agreed to pay $2.5 billion for bankrupt Japanese
chipmaker Elpida Memory Inc.  Europe Joblessness  Unemployment in the 17-nation euro area reached the highest
on record as a deepening economic slump and budget cuts prompted
companies from  Spain  to Italy to reduce their workforces, a
report showed yesterday.  European stocks rose as investors bet the jobless data will
spur central  banks (TPX)  will further ease policy to contain the debt
crisis. The ECB and the  Bank of England  are scheduled to
announce interest-rate decisions on July 5. ECB officials are
expected to lower the key rate by a quarter point to a record-
low 0.75 percent, according to the median forecast in a
Bloomberg survey of 57 economists.  Banks contributed the most to the Topix’s gain after Daiwa
Securities boosted the sector rating to bullish from neutral,
saying lenders’ shares are still undervalued even though
earnings are firm.  Banks Advance  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group (8316)  climbed 1.6 percent to
2,660 yen. Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc., Japan’s biggest
lender by market value, gained 3.2 percent to 392 yen. The
individual ratings for the two banks were also raised to buy
from outperform by Daiwa Securities.  Among companies that fell, Kawasaki Kisen plunged 15
percent to 134 yen to lead declines on the Nikkei 225. Japan’s
third-biggest shipping line by sales said it will raise as much
as 28.6 billion yen ($360 million) in a public share sale. The
company also cut its full-year net income forecast 73 percent to
3 billion yen, citing a drop in the value of investment
securities.  -- With assistance from Toshiro Hasegawa in Tokyo. Editor:  Jim Powell   To contact the reporter on this story:
Norie Kuboyama in Tokyo at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  