-- JetBlue Pilot Osbon Is Found Not Guilty Due to Insanity
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-07-03T22:39:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/jetblue-pilot-osbon-found-not-guilty-by-reason-of-insanity.html
Clayton Osbon, the  JetBlue Airways
Corp. (JBLU)  pilot arrested in March after his erratic behavior led to
the diversion of a flight, was found not guilty by reason of
insanity of interfering with his flight crew.  U.S. District Judge Mary Lou Robinson in Amarillo,  Texas ,
made the determination today after Osbon waived his right to a
 jury trial . The judge ordered Osbon to be taken immediately to a
federal correctional institution in  Fort Worth , Texas, for a
mental examination, according to a court order.  The examination will determine whether he poses a danger,
Assistant U.S. Attorney Christy Lee Drake said in an interview.  “If they make the finding that he is improved, that he no
longer poses a risk, the court can order him discharged under
conditions,” meaning he would be monitored by a probation
officer, she said.  Whether Osbon may pilot a plane again is a “judgment of
the court,” Drake said, adding that there may be “collateral
consequences” with the  Federal Aviation Administration , which
would determine if he will keep his pilot’s license.  Barred From Cockpit  Osbon’s behavior while captain of a March 27 flight from
 New York  to Las Vegas caused his co-pilot to bar him from the
cockpit, according to a federal agent’s affidavit filed with a
criminal complaint. After Osbon began shouting and pounding on
the flight deck door, he was restrained by passengers.  Osbon entered a not guilty plea June 28, after a previous
hearing at which he was found mentally fit to stand trial by
mutual agreement of the prosecution and defense.  A doctor testified today that Osbon “couldn’t appreciate
the quality or wrongfulness of his behavior,” Drake said, which
led to his agreement with prosecutors that he committed the
offense of interfering with a flight crew only by reason of
insanity.  A licensed psychologist,  Robert Johnson , evaluated Osbon
and prepared a 10-page report for the court, according to
filings. The government “does not and will not contest”
Johnson’s conclusion that Osbon suffered from a “severe mental
disease or defect” at the time he committed his offense,
according to the filing.  Osbon’s defense attorney, E. Dean Roper, didn’t immediately
return a call seeking comment.  The case is U.S. v. Osbon , 12-cr-00017, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of Texas (Amarillo).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco 
at   jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 