-- Dimon Faces Image ‘Nightmare’ With Energy Probe at JPM
-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a   a n d   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 2012-07-04T00:19:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/jpmorgan-probed-over-potential-power-market-manipulation-1-.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s refusal to
turn over e-mails in a federal probe of potential energy-market
manipulation is the latest challenge for Chief Executive Officer
 Jamie Dimon  as the bank faces multiple investigations.  The U.S.  Federal Energy Regulatory Commission  sued JPMorgan
July 2 to release 25 e-mails in an investigation of possible
manipulation of power markets in  California  and the Midwest by
J.P. Morgan Ventures Energy Corp., according to court filings by
the Washington-based agency. FERC opened the probe in August
after complaints from California and Midwest grid operators that
JPMorgan’s bidding practices were abusive, the documents show.  “He’s got a PR nightmare in front of him,” said Paul Miller, a former examiner for the  Federal Reserve Bank of
Philadelphia  and analyst at FBR Capital Markets in Arlington,
Virginia. “It’s another headline risk, which means more
regulators, which means over-regulation, which will eventually
hit their bottom line.”  The largest  U.S. bank  is struggling to maintain its image
as risk-averse and well-managed after reporting a $2 billion
loss in a London unit that Dimon said “violated common sense.”
Dimon, 56, has said that the loss may grow to $3 billion or
more. Analysts including Charles Peabody at Portales Partners
LLC in  New York  estimate it at about $5 billion.  The Securities and Exchange Commission and U.S. Justice
Department are among agencies investigating the cause of the
loss as well as the company’s public disclosures.  Libor Probe  JPMorgan, Citigroup Inc. and Bank of America Corp. may get
stung also by an international investigation into an attempt by
banks in the U.K. and U.S. to rig the London interbank offered
rate, called Libor. London-based  Barclays (BARC)  Plc was fined 290
million pounds ($455 million) and its top three executives,
including CEO  Robert Diamond , said they would step down.  “There is a heightened possibility of scrutiny after
recent events at Barclays,” Mike Mayo, an analyst at CLSA Ltd.
in New York, wrote in a July 2 research note. The banks face
risks of fines, lawsuits, negative news and new regulations,
according to Mayo’s note.  JPMorgan keeps “having these little blowups,” said  Paul
Miller . “It just sounds like a culture that’s supposed to be
very tight and risk-managed is not being well run.”  FERC, which has pledged to combat manipulation of prices,
said JPMorgan’s bidding techniques in California and the Midwest
resulted in at least $73 million in improper payments. It
accused the bank of improperly using attorney-client privilege
to withhold or redact 53 e-mails subpoenaed in April.  E-Mails Released  The company has since released 28 of the e-mails, including
a March 14, 2011, exchange between commodities head Blythe Masters and her chief of principal investments, Francis Dunleavy, regarding an update on the California Independent
System Operator Inc., one of the complainants in the case.  “So in your opinion we are better off with me trying to
decide this without your help?” Masters asked.  After Dunleavy asked to speak directly to Masters, who
wasn’t available, he said, “I will handle it but it may not be
pretty.”  FERC said in its complaint “there is no conceivable
argument that any of this is privileged.”  FERC Chairman Jon Wellinghoff said in March that the agency
will be vigorous in seeking to stop companies from manipulating
electricity markets, after the agency reached a record $245
million settlement with Constellation Energy Group Inc. for
trading practices in New York and  New England .  Alleged Violations  FERC has issued 15 notices of alleged violations since
January 2011 for companies including Barclays,  BP Plc (BP/) , Deutsche
Bank AG and Constellation, according to information posted on
the agency’s website. Seven of the cases have been settled, FERC
said.  “We have been responding to a FERC investigation into
certain activities in our federally approved power business,”
 Jennifer Zuccarelli , a JPMorgan spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.
“We believe we have complied in all respects with the law, as
well as FERC rules and applicable tariffs.” She declined to
discuss the bank’s image.  The regulator is examining efforts by Houston-based J.P.
Morgan Ventures to extract excessive payments or above-market
prices from California ISO and Midwest Independent Transmission
System Operator Inc., Thomas Olson, a lawyer in the FERC
investigating division, said in a court document. The probe
focuses on winning inflated “make-whole” payments, he said.  Improper Payments  “Any such improper payments to generators are ultimately
borne by the households, businesses and government entities that
are the end-consumers of electricity,” Olson said.  The California and Midwest grid operators solicit bids from
electricity suppliers each day to meet expected demand.
Typically, 90 percent or more power consumed is secured in what
is known as the day-ahead market. Any supply shortfalls because
of weather or unexpected plant shutdowns are met through bids
placed in real-time.  “Anytime you have allegations like this, it’s
noteworthy,” said  Paul Patterson , a New York-based analyst at
Glenrock Associates LLC. “Given the vital nature of
electricity, its inability to be stored and limitations for
transmission, the ability for players to influence prices is a
substantial concern to regulators.”  JPMorgan fell 1.1 percent to $35.88 yesterday in New York,
the fifth-worst performing stock among 30 companies in the  Dow
Jones Industrial Average .  The Financial Times reported the FERC investigation earlier
on its website.  The case is Federal Energy Regulatory Commission v. J.P.
Morgan Ventures Energy Corp., 12mc352, U.S. District Court for
the  District of Columbia  ( Washington ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn Kopecki in New York at =1-212-617-9115 or
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at   jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  