-- Kayak, Palo Alto Said to Start IPO Roadshows Next Week
-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o   a n d   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 2012-07-04T00:06:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/kayak-palo-alto-networks-said-to-start-ipo-roadshows-next-week.html
Kayak Software Corp. and  Palo Alto 
Networks Inc. will kick off their Morgan Stanley-led initial
public offerings next week, according to people with knowledge
of the situation, following  ServiceNow Inc. (NOW) ’s successful debut.  Both companies will start their roadshows next week, when
they’ll market the offerings to investors, and should start
trading by the end of this month if market conditions allow,
said the people, who asked not to be identified because the
process isn’t public.  ServiceNow Inc.’s 37 percent jump in its market debut last
week opened the gates for other IPOs after the flop of  Facebook
Inc. (FB) ’s $16 billion initial share sale froze the U.S. market for
more than a month. It also may have helped  Morgan Stanley (MS)  redeem
itself after coming under fire for the way it led Facebook’s
offering. CKE Inc., owner of the Hardee’s restaurant brand,
named Morgan Stanley the lead bank on its IPO today.  “Once we start to get more confidence in going public,
you’ll start to see a significant amount of companies that are
going to follow through with their delayed plans,” said Jeffrey Sica, who oversees more than $1 billion as chief investment
officer of Morristown, New Jersey-based Sica Wealth Management
LLC.  Shelved IPOs  IPOs globally raised $41.3 billion in the three months
ended June 30, 34 percent less than in the same period a year
ago, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. At least 50
companies shelved sales as  Europe ’s debt crisis spread, growth
prospects slowed in China and Facebook’s stock sank as much as
32 percent after the IPO.  ServiceNow raised $210 million on June 28, pricing the
shares above the planned range. New York-based Morgan Stanley is
on track to be the top underwriter for technology and global
IPOs, according to Bloomberg data.  Frank Slootman, ServiceNow’s chief executive officer,
didn’t have concerns using Morgan Stanley, which had served as
one of the lead banks on the 2007 IPO of Data Domain Inc. when
he was CEO of that company.  Morgan Stanley was a bookrunner “on my prior company, I
have a long history with them, my faith in them really wasn’t
shaken by the Facebook episode” Slootman told Bloomberg West
yesterday. The macroeconomic environment “was a bigger concern
for us” than Facebook.  Palo Alto Networks, based in  Santa Clara ,  California , filed
in April to raise $175 million in an IPO. The  Internet security 
company will list its shares on the  New York  Stock Exchange,
according to a person with direct knowledge of the matter.  Shares, Range  Kayak, based in Norwalk, Connecticut, filed in November
2010 to raise $50 million. The online travel service postponed
its roadshow in May because of Facebook’s disappointing debut, a
person close to the situation said at the time. Neither Kayak
nor Palo Alto Networks has provided the number of shares being
sold or the  price range  for the IPO. Terms are typically set
before the roadshow begins.  Jessica Casano-Antonellis, a spokeswoman for Kayak, didn’t
respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  Mike Haro , a spokesman for
Palo Alto Networks, and Pen Pendleton, a spokesman for Morgan
Stanley, declined to comment.  Rich Adamonis , a spokesman for
NYSE Euronext, declined to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net ;
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  