-- Kenya Renews Accord to Buy Iranian Crude, Plans No Shipments
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2012-07-03T14:10:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/kenya-renews-accord-to-buy-iranian-crude-plans-no-shipments-1-.html
Kenya  renewed a memorandum of
understanding to buy crude oil from  Iran , though the East
African nation hasn’t committed to receive any shipments, Energy
Ministry Permanent Secretary  Patrick Nyoike  said.  Kenya signed its latest agreement with the Persian Gulf
supplier in June, Nyoike said in a telephone interview today
from the capital, Nairobi.  “We signed MOUs in 2009 and 2010 and nothing happened,”
he said. “We signed another one last month with Iran, but it
has no legal substance and we can decide to do it or not,”
Nyoike said. He declined to provide further details.  Iran, the second-biggest OPEC producer after  Saudi Arabia ,
is looking for new markets after the European Union embargoed
purchases of crude from the Islamic Republic starting July 1.
The ban is the latest in a series of trade and financial
sanctions that the U.S., European Union and  United Nations  have
imposed on Iran over its nuclear program.  The U.S. is urging other countries to reduce their trade
with Iran in order to cut revenues that could further the
country’s nuclear plan, the State Department said in a statement
e-mailed by the U.S. embassy in Kenya.  “In our discussions with all of our international partners
we have made it clear the importance of reducing both ties with
the Central Bank of Iran and revenue to Iran in order to prevent
Iran from acquiring a nuclear weapon,” it said.  Kenya Petroleum Refineries Ltd., owned by  Essar Energy Plc (ESSR) 
and government, may begin this month buying its own crude and
selling products directly to fuel marketers.  Kenya announced plans last year to end the Mombasa-based
refinery’s tolling arrangements, under which fuel retailers were
required to supply a specific amount of crude each year for the
refiner to process at a fee. The changes will enable KPRL to
continue processing  Murban crude  and also start handling oil
from “cheaper sources,” the company said last month.  Of the 1.7 million metric tons of oil that KPRL refined in
2011, 99.7 percent was Murban crude, according to data compiled
by the Nairobi-based  Petroleum Institute of East Africa .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 