-- King Succession Race for BOE Roiled as Libor Furor Rages
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n ,   S i m o n   K e n n e d y   a n d   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2012-07-03T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/king-succession-race-for-boe-roiled-as-libor-furor-casts-shadow.html
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne ’s hunt for the next  Bank of England  governor got tougher
as the Libor-rigging scandal cast a shadow over potential
contenders for the job, including the top internal candidate.  With  Bob Diamond  resigning as chief executive officer of 
 Barclays Plc (BARC) , the lender’s acknowledged falsifying of global 
 interest rates  means greater scrutiny of bankers and regulators 
hoping to succeed  Mervyn King  atop the U.K. central bank.  Paul Tucker, one of King’s deputies and a front-runner to
replace him, is being drawn into the Libor furor over his 2008
communications with Diamond. Other possible contenders whose
prospects may be affected include  John Varley , Diamond’s
predecessor, and former  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  Chairman  Stephen Green , who chaired the  British Bankers Association  at the time.  “It would make it very difficult to select somebody if
they have been implicated in what amounts to wholesale Libor-
fixing,” said Mark Garnier, a Conservative Party lawmaker who
sits on Parliament’s Treasury Committee, the panel that Diamond 
testified to today in London.  King retires in June and government officials have
signalled the formal process for choosing his replacement won’t
start until the fall. The search will now be carried out in the
wake of a probe by lawmakers into British banking announced this
week by Prime Minister  David Cameron .  $360 Trillion  Libor, which is determined by 18 banks’ daily estimates of
how much it would cost them to borrow from one another for
different time frames and in various currencies, is the
benchmark for more than $360 trillion of securities, including
mortgages, student loans and swaps. Barclays was fined $455
million last week in the U.K. and the U.S. after it admitted to
submitting false Libor rates.  “Depending on what comes out of the Libor inquiry, the
government may say that instead of a safe pair of hands, what we
want is someone who will shake the industry up,” said Chris Roebuck, a professor at Cass Business School in London.  Barclays yesterday released a memorandum of a 2008
telephone call that purported to show Tucker hinting that the
lender could lower its Libor rates and noting unnamed government
officials had asked him why its submissions were so high. That
was interpreted by Chief Operating Officer Jerry Del Missier,
who also quit yesterday, as reason to tell his rate-setters to
lower their quotes, Barclays said.  Tucker’s Prospects  “The bank sees everything and it’s inconceivable it didn’t
know the Libor recalibration was going on,” said Dan Conaghan,
author of the book, “The Bank: Inside the Bank of England.”
“ Paul Tucker ’s star is on the wane and I suspect the government
will go for a safer option.”  “As I understand reports of both the FSA and the American
regulators, they do not believe Paul Tucker acted with anything
less than total propriety,” said Andy Love, a U.K. Labour Party
lawmaker who also sits on the Treasury committee. “But if
anything should emerge, then clearly that will be an influential
part of the discussion over who the most appropriate successor
to the governorship should be.”  Tucker’s three-decade career at the Bank of England and
knowledge of its workings throughout the financial crisis weigh
in his favor, said Richard Barwell, an economist at Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc and a former Bank of England official.  Bank Experience  “Someone who was head of a bank in recent years probably
didn’t have to spend a lot of time thinking about central bank
operations and the things you’d need to know to lead a central
bank,” he said.  Other candidates from across the financial services
industry may also face scrutiny. Varley was Diamond’s
predecessor as Barclays CEO from 2004 to 2010. Green, now a
trade minister in Cameron’s government and adviser to Osborne on
banking, was then the chairman of the BBA, the lobby group that
coordinates Libor.  “It’s pretty unlikely the next governor will be someone
from the City,” said  Paul Myners , a former U.K. Treasury
minister and now chairman of asset manager Liberty Ermitage
Group. “The shortlist just got even shorter as John Varley and
Stephen Green fall off it.”  A spokesman at the Bank of England, where Tucker is deputy
governor for financial stability, declined to comment. Varley
didn’t respond to messages left for him at the Employers’ Forum
on Disability, where he is president. A spokesman at U.K. Trade 
and Investment, the government agency Green is responsible for 
as trade minister, declined to comment.  Lawmaker Probe  Speculation on potential successors to King has intensified
as his retirement date nears. Aside from Tucker, Varley and
Green, other names mentioned include former U.K. civil service
chief Gus O’Donnell, Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney , FSA
Chairman  Adair Turner  and  Jim O’Neill , chairman of  Goldman Sachs (GS) 
Asset Management.  O’Neill said last month he’d consider replacing King if
asked. O’Donnell has said that he would use his new job as an
advisor at TD Bank Group to learn about banks and regulation as
he considers whether to apply.  Tucker leads the race at bookmaker  Paddy Power Plc (PAP) , with
odds of 4/5. That means a 1-pound ($1.57) winning bet would
yield an 80 pence return plus the original stake. O’Neill is
second favorite at 7/2, followed by O’Donnell at 4/1 and Turner
at 6/1. Green’s odds are 7/1 and Varley stands at 16/1.  Sassoon, Rose  Conaghan expects the choice to be James Sassoon, an adviser
to Osborne and a former investment banker. Myners suggested  John Rose , the former Rolls-Royce Group Plc CEO and now deputy
chairman of the Rothschild Group.  The risk of scandal in banking can be problematic when
recruiting from finance, said  Steven Bell , a former U.K.
Treasury official who is now chief economist at hedge fund GLC
Ltd. in London. A poll conducted by ComRes Ltd. this week showed
just 10 percent of the population trust bankers following the
financial crisis that began in 2007 and helped push the U.K.
into its first double-dip recession since the 1970s.  “There’s always concern in these appointments to make sure
the person is squeaky clean,” Bell said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer Ryan at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net ;
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  