-- Korea Won Gains on Bets ECB to Ease Policy; Bonds Advance
-- B y   J i y e u n   L e e
-- 2012-07-03T07:05:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/korea-won-gains-on-bets-ecb-to-ease-policy-bonds-advance.html
South Korea’s won strengthened to an
eight-week high as stocks rallied on expectations global
monetary authorities will ease policy to spur economic growth.  The  European Central Bank  will cut its benchmark  interest
rate  by at least a quarter of a percentage point at its July 5
meeting, according to 51 of 62 forecasts in a Bloomberg survey.
South Korea’s foreign-exchange reserves rose to $312.4 billion
in June from $310.9 billion in May, the central bank said today.
 Government bonds  advanced after manufacturing in the U.S.
unexpectedly shrank in June, with the  Institute for Supply
Management ’s index falling to 49.7.  “Expectations that the ECB may act to boost the economy at
this week’s meeting are supporting the won,” said Byeon Ji Young, a Seoul-based currency analyst for Woori Futures Co.
“The weak U.S. manufacturing data isn’t weighing on sentiment
that much as it also raises speculation about the  Federal
Reserve ’s policies.”  The won strengthened 0.7 percent to 1,138.29 per dollar at
the close in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It
touched 1,137.68 earlier, the strongest since May 8. The
currency’s one-month implied volatility, a measure of exchange-
rate swings used to price options, dropped 35 basis points, or
0.35 percentage point, to 7.28 percent.  The currency extended gains after South Korea’s Hyundai
Heavy Industries Co., the world’s biggest shipbuilder, won an
order to build 10 mega-container vessels for $1.2 billion, the
biggest new contract for the type industrywide in a year. There
could be dollar-selling in advance as the company hedges the
expected U.S. currency payments, according to Kim Seong Soo, a
Seoul-based trader for Kyongnam Bank. The  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  gained 0.9
percent.  Bonds Gain  The yield on the government’s 3.5 percent bonds due March
2017 fell three basis points to 3.40 percent, Korea Exchange
Inc. prices show. Three-year debt futures climbed 0.03 to 104.75
and the one-year interest-rate swap was steady at 3.35 percent.  “The optimism after Europe’s summit last week is fading,
and weak data out of the U.S. yesterday spread economic slowdown
concerns,” said Lee Gil Won, a Seoul-based bond trader for
 Shinhan Bank . “There were unidentified rumors today that big
overseas funds bought Korean debt, and some investors covered
their short position on bonds.” A short position is a bet an
asset will decline.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jiyeun Lee in  Seoul  at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry in Hong Kong at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 