-- New York Police Lose Second Stop-and-Frisk Case on Appeal
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-07-04T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/n-y-court-tosses-second-stop-and-frisk-arrest.html
A  New York  appeals court threw out a
conviction for the second time in as many weeks of a teenager
caught with a loaded gun in a so-called stop-and-frisk search by
officers of the New York City Police Department.  The rulings come about a month after a  Manhattan  federal
judge approved a class action over the practice. The teen,
identified as Jaquan M., was 14 years old when the weapon was
found in his backpack during a police search. He was stopped
after officers patrolling a “drug-prone” location at night
observed him putting an object into his backpack, according to
the decision.  The appellate panel in Manhattan yesterday reversed a lower
court ruling from August 2010. The judge in the trial court
found the teen was a juvenile delinquent after he conceded that
his action would constitute second-degree criminal possession of
a weapon if committed by an adult.  The two decisions pose legal setbacks to the  New York City
Police Department ’s stop-and-frisk program, in which residents
of high-crime neighborhoods are stopped, questioned and
searched. Police must have what the U.S. Supreme Court has ruled
is “reasonable suspicion” that crime is afoot to justify such
stops under the U.S. Constitution.  ‘Reasonable suspicion’  “Reasonable suspicion could not be formed in this case
based strictly on the officers’ observation of appellant
removing an object from his waistband, because they conceded
that the object bore no obvious hallmarks of a weapon,” the
appeals panel said in a 3-2 decision written by Justice Angela M. Mazzarelli. “Further, there were no other objective indicia
of criminality because there were plausible, non-criminal
reasons for appellant’s behavior.”  Two judges on the appeals panel disagreed with today’s
majority opinion, saying that the circumstances justified the
questioning of the teen based on common law and also provided
police with “reasonable suspicion to believe that the appellant
was illegally carrying a gun in his backpack” and justified a
stop-and-frisk.  “The appellant’s efforts to keep the object concealed, his
surreptitious conduct looking up and down the street and his
presence alone at night in a drug-prone location where armed
robberies were increasing were all factors that aroused the
officer’s reasonable suspicion,” Justice James M. Catterson
wrote in the minority opinion, which was joined by Justice  David
Friedman .  Similar Conviction  The same court in another 3-2 decision issued a week
earlier threw out a similar conviction against another teen
found with a loaded gun during an encounter with police in the
Bronx in 2010. The city has appealed that ruling to the state
Court of Appeal in  Albany .  “The dissenting judges properly applied the law to the
facts,” Kate O’Brien Ahlers, a spokeswoman for the city’s Law
Department, said in a statement. “The majority opinion creates
new obstacles for police officers who reasonably suspect that
someone is carrying an illegal gun.”  The  First Department  reiterated that a police stop-and-
frisk that isn’t based on a reasonable suspicion that the person
has committed a crime can’t be condoned, Pat Bath, a spokeswoman
for the Legal Aid Society, which argued the cases before the
appeals court, said in a statement.  Black Men  On May 16, U.S. District Judge Shira Scheindlin certified a
class action brought by four black men against the city over the
practice. She rejected the city’s arguments against
certification and criticized the police department’s attitude
toward “widespread suspicionless stops” as “cavalier” and
evincing a “deeply troubling apathy towards  New Yorkers ’ most
fundamental constitutional rights.”  Scheindlin wrote that there is “overwhelming evidence that
there in fact exists a centralized stop and frisk program that
has led to thousands of unlawful stops.”  Last year, the New York Police Department stopped and
interrogated people 685,724 times, an increase in street stops
of more than 600 percent since Mayor  Michael Bloomberg ’s first
year in office, according to a  report  by the New York Civil
Liberties Union.  Nine out of 10 people stopped were innocent, meaning they
were neither arrested nor ticketed. About 87 percent were black
or Latino, according to the organization.  The mayor is the founder and majority owner of Bloomberg
LP, the parent company of Bloomberg News.  The case is In re Jaquan M., No. 6432, New York State
Supreme Court, Appellate Division First Department (Manhattan).
The federal court case is Floyd v. City of New York, 08-01034,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  