-- Netflix Gains as Online Viewing Surges: San Francisco Mover
-- B y   S a m a n t h a   Z e e   a n d   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2012-07-03T18:51:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/netflix-june-online-viewing-topped-record-1-billion-hours.html
Netflix Inc. (NFLX) , the online and mail-
order video service, rose after saying that Internet viewing
topped a record 1 billion hours in June.  Netflix, based in Los Gatos, California, climbed 6.2
percent to $72.04 at the close, its biggest gain since May 23.
The shares have gained 4 percent this year.  Chief Executive Officer  Reed Hastings , in a posting on his
Facebook page today, said that customers watched more than 1
billion hours of movies and TV shows online last month, a record
for the company. The stock also climbed after  Mark Mahaney , an
analyst at  Citigroup Inc. (C)  in  San Francisco , reiterated a buy
recommendation on Netflix shares, calling the price “highly
reasonable.” His target is $130 a share.  Netflix said in January that viewing in the final three
months of 2011 totaled more than 2 billion hours. Joris Evers, a
company spokesman, declined to provide the previous record.  Netflix has been acquiring exclusive content to fend off
 Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , Hulu LLC and other streaming services. Hastings
posted the viewing total in a note praising  Ted Sarandos , chief
content officer at Netflix, saying new programs will drive the
totals higher.  “When ‘House of Cards’ and ‘Arrested Development’ debut,
we’ll blow these records away,” Hastings wrote.  Last month, Neflix said it is testing a redesign of its
website that separates movie viewing options from its growing
television catalog.  By splitting off films from television shows, and offering
subcategories of each, the new look may improve viewers’ ability
to find programs in specific genres. The company hasn’t decided
yet whether to implement the design later this year.  ‘Growth Opportunities’   “They are the clear leader in their space and still have
growth opportunities,”  Andy Hargreaves , an analyst with Pacific
Crest Securities in Portland, Oregon, said in a telephone
interview. He has an outperform rating on the stock and a target
of $130 a share.  “We had estimated their customers watched about 850
million hours per month in June, and they exceeded that,” he
said. “People are watching more and there are more people
watching.”  High content costs, which are expected to increase, may
impede growth,  Michael Pachter , an analyst at Wedbush Securities
Inc. in Los Angeles, said in an interview. He has an
underperform rating on Netflix, with a target of $45 a share.  “Content owners have complete control because Netflix
can’t obtain it from elsewhere,” Pachter said. If content
owners charge Netflix more, margins will be squeezed, and if
quality is sacrificed to keep costs down, Netflix risks losing
viewers, he said.  “The jump in the hours watched seems high, there is only a
certain amount of time a day to watch television,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Samantha Zee in San Francisco at 
 szee@bloomberg.net ;
Cliff Edwards in San Francisco at 
 Cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Taylor at 
 jtaylor48@bloomberg.net  