-- Nets Bringing Players to Brooklyn to Reverse Losing Tradition
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-07-04T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/nets-bringing-new-players-to-brooklyn-to-erase-losing-tradition.html
The Brooklyn Nets are trying to
create a culture of winning from the novelty of a new arena,
city and logo.  The Nets agreed to acquire six-time National Basketball
Association All-Star guard  Joe Johnson  and bring back point
guard and Brooklyn native  Deron Williams , who agreed to a five-
year $98 million contract, ESPN reported. Three-time Defensive
Player of the Year  Dwight Howard  remains a possibility to join
the club as it moves to its new home, the network said.  The Nets spent the past 35 years in  New Jersey , losing
almost 500 games more than they won. A new arena and redesigned
logo won’t be enough to make the move a success unless the team,
owned by Russian billionaire  Mikhail Prokhorov , ends the Eastern
Conference’s longest playoff drought, according to  Andrew Zimbalist , a sports economist at  Smith College .  “A new stadium or arena doesn’t generate revenue, it
generates potential revenue,” Zimbalist said yesterday in a
telephone interview. “You’ll get fans in the seats for the
first few weeks just out of curiosity, but in order to keep the
revenue, you have to have a good product on the court.”  The Nets will play at the Barclays Center, part of a $4.9
billion, 22-acre project next to  Brooklyn ’s main public
transportation hub. The franchise has new uniforms with a black
and white color scheme, further distancing itself from its New
Jersey era, when red, white and blue predominated.  “Before, we had to have brochures and video of, ‘This is
what it’s going to be when we’re in Brooklyn,”’ Nets General
Manager Billy King said last week. “Now we can take them there.
It’s a reality now and I think it’s going to be great for the
people of Brooklyn and our fan base. It’s going to be great for
our players to be part of something special.”  Missing Playoffs  The Nets, 22-44 in their final New Jersey season, haven’t
made the playoffs since losing in the Eastern Conference
semifinals in 2007 and haven’t played in the NBA Finals since
2002 and 2003. They are tied with the  Golden State Warriors  for
third-longest playoff absence in the NBA, behind the Sacramento
Kings’ six years and the Minnesota Timberwolves’ eight.  “There’s potentially a very large return when you can
synchronize a new facility and an exciting team,” Zimbalist
said.  Johnson, 31, averaged 18.8 points, 3.9 assists and 3.7
rebounds last season with the Hawks. Atlanta will receive the
expiring contracts of Jordan Farmar, Johan Petro, Anthony Morrow
and Jordan Williams in the deal, along with DeShawn Stevenson
and a lottery-protected first-round pick in the 2013 NBA draft,
according to ESPN. Deals can’t be formally finished or announced
until July 11.  Williams Talks  In the past two years, the Nets were mentioned as a
possible destination for  LeBron James  and  Carmelo Anthony , All-
Stars who wound up elsewhere -- James with the  Miami Heat ,
Anthony with the  New York Knicks . The addition of Johnson may
help the Nets in their negotiations with Williams, according to
ESPN.  Williams, 28, finished in the NBA’s top five assist leaders
in each of the last six seasons. Last year he led the Nets with
21 points and 8.7 assists a game and was named to the All-Star
Game for the third time in his career.  He became an unrestricted free agent on July 1 when he
opted out of the final season of a four-year, $70 million
contract he signed with the  Utah Jazz  in 2008.  Williams put a Nets logo on his Twitter site last night
accompanied by his message: “Made a very difficult decision
today.”  Howard Target  The Nets are also in trade talks for the 6-foot-11 Howard,
a six-time All-Star center who led the  Orlando Magic  to the NBA
Finals in 2009, according to ESPN.  Yahoo Sports  reported
yesterday that the Magic hadn’t received an offer that made the
team consider trading Howard, who becomes a free agent after the
2012-13 season.  The ceiling on NBA payrolls places an emphasis on team
chemistry in addition to talent, Zimbalist said. It also limits
the amount that owners can spend on their teams. The cap for the
2011-12 season was $58 million and hasn’t been set yet for 2012-
13. Any cap will also include exceptions for certain contracts
and penalties for exceeding payroll limits.  Johnson is due $90 million over the next four years, and
the team agreed to terms last week with All-Star forward  Gerald Wallace  on a four-year, $40 million contract, according to ESPN.
The Nets can offer Williams a five-year, $100 million deal, the
maximum allowable under the league’s labor agreement. That’s one
year and $25 million more than the Mavericks can offer.  Nets Versus Knicks  The Nets’ move may start a rivalry with the Knicks, who are
coming off a playoff season in which point guard Jeremy Lin
helped bring buzz back to Midtown Manhattan’s  Madison Square
Garden , the self-labeled “world’s most famous arena,”
Zimbalist said.  “When they were out in New Jersey, the Nets had calcified
secondary status,” Zimbalist said. “Moving into Brooklyn,
moving into this exciting new arena, they are in a position now
to make a much bigger dent in the  New York  sporting culture.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  