-- New Relic Web Software Sells Itself for Ex-Tea Salesman
-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 2012-07-03T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/new-relic-web-software-sells-itself-for-ex-tea-salesman.html
Scott Witucki joined  New Relic Inc. ,
a startup that tracks website performance, after six years on
the road peddling bottled tea. Within months, the technology
novice became the top salesman.  “The product sells itself,” said Witucki, 36, who booked
more than $400,000 in sales in his first quarter on the job
without ever hopping on a plane or playing a round of golf --
the way software used to get sold. He’s hardly even had to leave
New Relic’s office in  San Francisco ’s South of Market district.  New Relic, whose Web-based products help companies monitor
the speed of their websites and pinpoint bugs in applications,
is among a host of startups trying to make complex technology as
easy to use as e-mail or  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s social network. That
simplicity is winning sales in the software-as-a-service market,
which researcher Gartner Inc. predicts will surge 80 percent to
$22.1 billion by 2015 from $14.5 billion last year.  For New Relic Chief Executive Officer Lewis Cirne, who
founded the company in 2008, cloud computing has changed
everything. Cirne previously started and ran Wily Technology
Inc., which  CA Inc. (CA)  acquired in 2006 for $375 million. Wily sold
software the old way, sending representatives out to try to
convince executives to spend hundreds of thousands of dollars on
multiyear licenses to install it on in-house servers.  ‘Servicing Thousands’  Wily was at a disadvantage relative to competitors such as
 International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  and  Hewlett-Packard (HPQ)  Co.,
which were flush with cash and had many times the number of
salespeople. It was also dependent on a few main accounts. New
Relic serves more than 25,000 clients, ranging from two-person
teams to companies as big as Nike Inc., Intuit Inc. and Groupon
Inc.  “No one customer threatening to leave can threaten the
business,” Cirne said.  At New Relic, even salespeople with no software expertise
can pull in $1.2 million a year on average. The company says
it’s poised to generate more than $100 million in annual revenue
by the end of 2013.  New Relic has a free basic  product  and a $24 monthly
service for small teams that has more monitoring features.
There’s also a package for $149 a month that lets companies
thoroughly analyze the root cause of problems.  Customers log in through a browser and use a dashboard to
see how well their apps and websites are performing in real
time. If a site is slow, the company can drill down into the
specific cause of the problem, whether it’s a failed server,
slow database or a sudden surge in  Internet traffic .  New Relic’s chief competitors are older technology
companies like IBM, Hewlett-Packard and BMC Software Inc., which
have been slow to develop Web-based offerings.  Midnight Calls  Envato, an Australian startup that owns a suite of websites
focused on education, technology and employment, was “in the
dark” before using New Relic, said CEO Collis Ta’eed. His
developers would receive calls in the middle of the night
because of a site outage and spend hours guessing what happened.  “When something goes wrong it’s usually one of thousands
of different possibilities that’s causing it,” said Ta’eed, who
co-founded  Envato  in 2006. “Unless you have specific insight
into which dial you need to turn, which specific thing is
causing the problem, it’s very difficult to make adjustments.
With New Relic, you get a whole bunch of stats and analytics.”  To reach more companies like Envato, New Relic has almost
tripled in size in the past year to more than 120 employees,
with about 20 percent of the staff in sales. All transactions
are done over the phone and by e-mail, with many leads coming
from users who download the free product and then inquire about
an upgrade. Each salesperson handles 50 to 80 transactions a
quarter with deal sizes ranging from $5,000 to $8,000, Cirne
said.  Private Funding  New Relic has raised $36 million in private funding,
including a $15 million financing round in November that valued
the company at about $400 million. Investors include Silicon
Valley firms Benchmark Capital, Trinity Ventures and Tenaya
Capital.  While the cloud market is growing rapidly, Gartner analyst
 Jonah Kowall  estimates that 85 percent to 90 percent of
companies are still focused on buying traditional monitoring
software and have yet to migrate to the cloud. That will change
over time, he said.  “There’s definitely a new next generation of monitoring
products coming,” Kowall said. “There’s a push for simplicity
across the board.”  Cirne is witnessing it firsthand. A screen in his sales
department continuously flashes the names of employees closing
deals, with sales of $10,000 prompting a gong. He’s hearing it
so often that he’s expecting annual revenue to double for at
least the next two years.  For competitors stuck selling software the old way, Cirne
has an even bolder prediction: “It’s the beginning of the
end,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy at   alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  