-- NFL Reaffirms Bounty Discipline for New Orleans Saints Players
-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 2012-07-04T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/nfl-upholds-bounty-discipline-for-new-orleans-saints-players.html
Commissioner  Roger Goodell  reaffirmed
the National Football League’s punishment of four players in the
New Orleans Saints’ bounty case, including a season-long
suspension for linebacker Jonathan Vilma.  Anthony Hargrove,  Will Smith ,  Scott Fujita  and Vilma will
serve their bans after Goodell informed them that he hasn’t seen
any reason to soften the punishments despite multiple
opportunities for the men to present their version of events.  “Throughout this entire process, including your appeals,
and despite repeated invitations and encouragement to do so,
none of you has offered any evidence that would warrant
reconsideration of your suspensions,” Goodell wrote in a letter
to the players excerpted in a league news release.  The NFL Players Association said in a statement that it was
“disappointed with the league’s conduct during this process.”  “We reiterate our concerns about the lack of fair due
process, lack of integrity of the investigation and lack of the
jurisdictional authority to impose discipline under the
collective bargaining agreement,” the union said. “Moreover,
the commissioner took actions during this process that rendered
it impossible for him to be an impartial arbitrator.”  In May, Goodell suspended Vilma without pay for the 2012
season; Hargrove, a defensive lineman now with the Green Bay
Packers, for eight games; Smith, a defensive end, for four games;
and Fujita, a linebacker now with the  Cleveland Browns , for
three games.  Stiffest Penalty  The NFL in April handed down the stiffest punishment ever
imposed on a team and its leadership for the bounty program.
Saints coach  Sean Payton  was suspended for the season, General
Manager Mickey Loomis was given a half-season suspension,
assistant coach  Joe Vitt  received a six-game ban and the
franchise was stripped of two draft picks and fined $500,000.  Former Saints defensive coordinator  Gregg Williams , now
with the St. Louis Rams, was suspended indefinitely for
administering the program, which the NFL said paid players as
much as $1,500 for a “knockout” in which an opposing player
was unable to return to the game and $1,000 for a “cart off”
in which opponents were carried from the field.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in New York at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  