-- Nomura Dropped From DBJ Bond Sale Due to Insider Leak Case
-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o   a n d   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 2012-07-03T08:34:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/nomura-dropped-from-dbj-bond-sale-because-of-insider-leak-case.html
Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) , Japan’s biggest
brokerage, was dropped as a lead underwriter for state-owned
 Development Bank of Japan Inc. ’s bond sale this month because of
its involvement in leaking insider information.  Nomura was replaced by Mitsubishi UFJ  Morgan Stanley (MS) 
Securities Co. on the deal, according to a faxed statement from
Mizuho Securities Co. today. DBJ, which had said in May that it
had hired Tokyo-based Nomura as well as  Daiwa Securities Group
Inc. (8601)  and  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411) , today said it made the
change to avoid “any disruption” to the offering.  The lost mandate may increase pressure on Nomura Chief
Executive Officer Kenichi Watanabe to take more steps to restore
clients’ confidence after employees gave out information ahead
of transactions managed by the bank in 2010. Nomura last week
said it will cut top executives’ pay and suspend some operations
amid a government crackdown on  insider trading .  “Nomura and the others that leaked information will see
more suspensions for trading and underwriting from Japanese
companies and overseas pension funds, which have stricter
compliance rules,” said  Fumiyuki Nakanishi , an equity
strategist at SMBC Friend Securities Co. in Tokyo. “Cutting the
CEO’s pay isn’t enough, that’s what market participants think.”  Keiko Sugai, a Tokyo-based spokeswoman for Nomura, declined
to comment. DBJ hasn’t decided how much to raise from selling
the three- and five-year bonds, Daisuke Inaba, a Tokyo-based
spokesman for DBJ, said by telephone today.  Slow Reaction  Financial Services Minister Tadahiro Matsushita has called
on 12 local brokerages to review how they handle confidential
information, he said at a press conference today, adding that
the measure is a response to leaks by a “major” brokerage.  Regulators are yet to complete their inspection of Nomura
after finding that its staff gave tips on equity offerings by
Inpex Corp., Mizuho Financial and  Tokyo  Electric Power Co. The
brokerage concluded an internal investigation on June 29, and
said it had found that some staff appeared to be “willing to do
anything to meet sales targets,” according to a report it
issued last week.  While Nomura is now “half way toward fixing” the breaches
and is making progress on addressing short comings in its
compliance, the company was initially slow to react to the
regulator’s inspection, the minister said.  Nomura shares rose 0.7 percent to 298 yen at the 3 p.m.
close of Tokyo Stock Exchange trading. The equity benchmark
Topix Index gained 1 percent.  Under Suspicion  “We’ve decided to drop Nomura in order to move ahead with
our bond issuance without any disruption,” DBJ’s Inaba said.
“We need to avoid a situation where investors hesitate to buy
our bonds just because a brokerage, which admitted to having
internal control issues and conducted an investigation, helps
manage the transaction.”  Regulators have also investigated firms including the local
brokerage units of Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. and
JPMorgan Chase & Co. The Topix Index has dropped 9.5 percent
since March 21, when the Securities and Exchange Surveillance
Commission began announcing that underwriters had been found to
have leaked information before stock offerings.  Daiwa is also subject to the government probe, two people
with knowledge of the situation said last week. An employee at
 Japan ’s second biggest brokerage provided confidential
information on Nippon Sheet Glass Co.’s 2010 public share
offering to a hedge fund, the people said, asking not to be
identified before a public announcement.  Daiwa’s Probe  The SESC on June 29 recommended that Japan Advisory Ltd., a
hedge fund advisory firm, pay a fine of 375,183 yen ($4,700) for
trades related to Nippon Sheet’s sale. Daiwa, an underwriter for
the offering, will start an internal probe into the Japan
Advisory trades and strengthen its controls, the brokerage said
in a statement to the exchange that day.  Daiwa yesterday was dropped from a seven- and 10-year bond
sale being conducted by Kawasaki Heavy Industries Ltd.,
according to a statement by Mizuho, which is now managing the
transport equipment maker’s sale.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  