-- Obama Invokes McCain as Romney Cites Clinton to Make Case
-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 2012-07-03T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/obama-invokes-mccain-as-romney-cites-clinton-to-make-case.html
To some partisans, it may sound
jarring: President  Barack Obama  talks about how he and former
rival John McCain were simpatico in 2008 while  Mitt Romney 
fondly recalls Bill Clinton’s White House tenure.  Yet lauding the prominent elder statesmen from the opposing
party has become a regular feature of the 2012 presidential
race, with Romney, the presumptive Republican nominee, using
Clinton to score points against Obama the same way the president
seeks such an advantage by invoking McCain.  The primary goal of these efforts is to appeal to
independent voters, said  Douglas Brinkley , a presidential
historian at  Rice University  in Houston.  “It’s a way of showing a kind of largesse” toward the
opposition while also painting your current campaign rival as an
extremist, Brinkley said. “It’s a constant in politics.”  For Obama, praising McCain is “a way to say that Romney is
more of a right-wing ideologue,” Brinkley said. Romney is doing
“the exact same thing” when he touts Clinton’s accomplishments
-- depicting Obama as overly partisan, he said.  Positive comment by Romney about Clinton also lets the
former Massachusetts governor show himself as “not just beating
up on all Democrats,” Brinkley said.  ‘Subliminal’ Message  “And because Obama actually beat McCain,” the president’s
favorable remarks about him are “a subliminal way of earmarking
that he’s going to be able to beat Romney,” Brinkley said.  Obama has made positive public mentions of McCain, an
 Arizona  senator, at least six times over the last two months,
including telling donors at a June 14 fundraiser hosted by
actress Sarah Jessica Parker in  New York  City how much he had
agreed with his rival on issues central to their 2008 battle.  Romney similarly has invoked Clinton, the former Democratic
president, at least four times over the same period, including
extolling him as a “mainstream” leader who worked with
Republicans to shrink government and overhaul the welfare
system.  Romney joins a list of Republicans who now praise Clinton,
including some who tried to oust him from office after
disclosure of his relationship with former White House intern
 Monica Lewinsky . These include McCain, an impeachment supporter
who recently has been praising Clinton for U.S. intervention in
the Balkans in the 1990s as a way of encouraging Obama to do the
same in  Syria .  Immigration Issue  Obama’s most recent public shout-outs to McCain came since
the president on June 15 announced his decision to end the
deportations of some illegal immigrants brought to the U.S. as
children. He’s twice given McCain credit for earlier efforts to
overhaul the immigration system that included providing a
pathway to U.S. citizenship for some illegal immigrants,
proposals which Romney has opposed.  In a June 22 speech to the National Association of Latino
Elected and Appointed Officials in Lake Buena Vista, Florida,
Obama referred to a legislative effort while he was a U.S.
senator from Illinois. McCain aligned himself with a measure
pushed by the late Senator  Ted Kennedy  of Massachusetts and
then-President  George W. Bush , a Republican.  “Just six years ago an unlikely trio, John McCain, Ted Kennedy, President Bush, came together to champion comprehensive
immigration reform,” Obama said. “I, along with a lot of
Democrats, were proud to join 23 Senate Republicans in voting
for it.”  Climate Change  At the $40,000-a-plate dinner eight days earlier at actress
Parker’s townhouse, Obama said, “In some ways, this election is
more important than 2008 -- because in 2008, as much as I
disagreed with Mr. McCain, he believed in  climate change .  He
believed in campaign finance reform.  He believed in immigration
reform.”  As he made these points to underscore his differences with
Romney, many in the audience, which included actress  Meryl Streep , nodded in agreement.  At a June 12 dinner in Philadelphia where tickets cost a
minimum of at least $10,000 a person, Obama said there were
“certain baselines” he and McCain agreed on. By contrast,
Obama said, Romney is “pretty much in sync with the vision of
the House Republican Party” and its focus on slashing taxes for
the wealthiest and killing government regulations.  McCain spokesman  Brian Rogers  questioned Obama’s invocation
of his former rival.  “If he and President Obama share so many priorities and
are in such agreement, why didn’t the president or his staff
ever reach out to Senator McCain to work on them?” Rogers said
yesterday.  Big Government  Romney spotlighted Clinton in making his argument that
Obama has hurt the country by pushing for excessive  government
spending .  “President Clinton said the era of big government was
over,” Romney said in a May 8 speech in Lansing, Michigan,
referring to the former president’s 1996  State of the Union 
address. “President Obama brought it back with a vengeance,”
Romney added.  Romney a week later elaborated on a distinction between
Obama and Clinton over the role of government -- and suggested a
personal rift between the two was involved.  “President Obama tucked away the Clinton doctrine in his
large drawer of discarded ideas, along with transparency and
bipartisanship,” Romney  said  in Des Moines on May 15. “It’s
enough to make you wonder if maybe it was a personal beef with
the Clintons, but probably it runs much deeper than that.”  Bain Capital  Clinton forged his own link with Romney when he weighed in
on Obama campaign attacks on the Republican’s background as a
private-equity executive who co-founded Boston-based  Bain
Capital  LLC.  Clinton called Romney’s service at Bain “sterling” during
a May 31 CNN interview, and said that his business career
“crosses the qualification threshold” for the presidency, even
as he predicted an Obama victory in November.  Romney embraced the comments, and put his own spin on them.  “No wonder  Bill Clinton  and so many other mainstream
Democrats are revolting against the backward direction President
Obama is taking his party and our country,” he said June 15 in
Stratham, New Hampshire.  In a subsequent  interview  with PBS, Clinton said it’s
“much more relevant” to look at what Romney did as governor
and what he says he’d do as president.  Clinton’s spokesman Matt McKenna declined to comment.  Litany of Attacks  Adding to the oddity of these efforts is the litany of
attacks by Obama and Romney against the men they now frequently
acclaim.  Throughout the 2008 campaign, Obama linked McCain to then-
President George W. Bush and sought to depict the senator as
out-of-touch.  “It’s not because  John McCain  doesn’t care,” Obama said
in his 2008 nomination acceptance speech. “It’s because John
McCain doesn’t get it.”  Romney was critical of Clinton’s policies when he ran
against Kennedy in Massachusetts’ 1994 Senate race, deriding the
then-president for raising taxes.  Romney also took a shot at Clinton at a Jan. 26 debate with
his rivals in the Republican nomination race, as he explained
why he voted for former Massachusetts Senator Paul Tsongas in
the 1992 Democratic presidential primary.  “In my state of Massachusetts you could register as an
independent and go vote in either primary,” Romney said. “Any
chance I got to vote against Bill Clinton or Ted Kennedy, I
took.”  ----With assistance from  John McCormick  in  Chicago . Editors: Don Frederick, Robin Meszoly  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  