-- MModal Agrees to Be Sold to JPMorgan Arm for $1.1 Billion
-- B y   J a s o n   G a l e
-- 2012-07-04T00:52:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/mmodal-agrees-to-be-bought-by-jpmorgan-arm-for-1-1-billion.html
(Corrects Ebitda multiple in third paragraph of story
originally published July 3.)  MModal Inc. (MODL) , a provider of medical
document processing technology, said it agreed to be bought by a
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  unit for about $1.1 billion.  One Equity Partners, JPMorgan’s private investment arm,
will pay $14 a share in cash for MModal, or 8.3 percent more
than the stock’s July 2 closing price, the Franklin, Tennessee-
based company said in a statement today. MModal’s board accepted
the offer, to be made in a tender on or before July 17 and
expected to be completed by September, it said.  The acquisition values MModal at 8.46 times earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and goodwill amortization,
compared with an average 21.3 times among 10 comparable deals,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  An official at One Equity in  Hong Kong  wasn’t able to
immediately respond to an interview request. One Equity manages
about $11 billion of assets, according to the statement. It has
invested about $9 billion since 2001 buying more than 60
companies across the chemicals, health care, technology, travel
and manufacturing industries, the New York-based group said on
its  website .  Investment funds affiliated with S.A.C. Private Capital
Group LLC represent the largest shareholding in MModal with
about 31 percent, and have agreed to sell their shares in
support of the transaction, according to MModal.  MModal has 12,000 employees in five countries, and more
than 140 patents and licenses for speech recognition and
understanding technology, according to its website.  Macquarie Group Ltd. is acting as lead financial adviser to
MModal, which is also being advised by  RBC Capital Markets , with
Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP is acting as legal counsel,
MModal said. It said One Equity, which has obtained equity and
debt financing for the transaction, was advised by Bank of
America Corp. and RBC Capital Markets. Dechert LLP is providing
legal counsel, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Gale in  Melbourne  at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net . 