-- Oil Rebounds in New York on Global Stimulus Speculation
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2012-07-03T11:40:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/oil-rebounds-in-new-york-on-global-stimulus-speculation.html
Oil rose in  New York  on speculation
sanctions against Iran will curb supply and amid signs that
central banks from Europe to China may ease monetary policy to
spur economic growth.  Iran fired several missiles as part of a three-day military
exercise as the Foreign Ministry condemned the European Union
ban on Iranian oil as a threat to national security. The embargo
will probably have a bigger effect than previously estimated,
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said. The  European Central Bank  is
forecast to cut interest rates this week to help resolve the
region’s debt crisis. A state-owned newspaper in China said the
time is right to increase liquidity in the banking sector.  Brent
crude  surpassed $100 a barrel for the first time in three weeks.  “The conflict with Iran is not over, and if there’s
escalation that will drive prices higher,” said Sintje Boie, an
analyst at  HSH Nordbank  in Hamburg who predicts Brent crude will
rebound to $105 a barrel by the end of the quarter. “The world
economy will improve in the coming months, oil demand will
increase this year and the conflict with Iran isn’t over. So the
upward path for oil prices is there.”  Oil for August delivery climbed as much as $2.35 to $86.10
a barrel and was at $85.90 in electronic trading on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange  at 12:34 p.m. in London. The contract slid
$1.21 yesterday to $83.75, the lowest close since June 28.
Prices are 13 percent lower this year.  Brent for August settlement traded above $100 a barrel for
the first time since June 11 and was at $99.68 on the London-
based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The European benchmark’s
premium to West Texas Intermediate was at $13.84 compared with
$13.59 yesterday.  Iran Sanctions  An EU embargo on Iran entered into full force on July 1
after exemptions on some contracts and insurance ended. Iran’s
crude exports may drop to about 1 million barrels a day, Goldman
Sachs said in a report yesterday.  Iran’s parliament is working on a bill to close the  Strait
of Hormuz  to  oil tankers  linked to countries applying new
European Union sanctions, a lawmaker from the national security
committee told Jam-e-Jam newspaper. The waterway is a transit
route for a fifth of the world’s crude.  According to the draft bill, Iran would block vessels
carrying crude to countries that have initiated EU sanctions,
Javad Karimi-Ghodousi said in an interview with the Tehran-based
newspaper.  “Growing political tension and potential supply
disruptions will be supportive for oil prices, particularly
Brent, despite macroeconomic concerns,”  Mark Pervan , the head
of commodity research at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group
Ltd. in  Melbourne , said in a note today.  Rate Cut  European bank officials will lower the main  interest rate 
by a quarter percentage point to a record 0.75 percent on July
5, a Bloomberg News survey of economists shows. EU leaders, who
announced plans last week to stem the region’s debt crisis by
amending bailout rules and moving toward a banking union, are
now looking to the central bank to help.  “Europe’s problems are unlikely to be resolved by monetary
policy,” said Guy Wolf, a macro strategist at Marex Spectron
Group Ltd., a London-based commodities broker, who predicts  oil
prices  may struggle to advance. “The growth environment is the
worst since the financial crisis.”  U.S. crude stockpiles probably dropped by  1.9 million
barrels  last week, according to the median estimate of eight
analysts in a Bloomberg News  survey  before a July 5 Energy
Department report. The industry-funded  American Petroleum
Institute  will report its own data prior to the government data.  Gasoline supplies increased 1 million barrels last week,
according to the survey. Refineries traditionally step up
operations with the start of the so-called driving season, which
runs from Memorial Day at the end of May to Labor Day in early
September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net 
Grant Smith in  London  at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  