-- Oil Rises on Stimulus Speculation, Iranian Supply
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2012-07-03T20:45:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/oil-rises-on-stimulus-speculation-iranian-supply.html
Oil surged to a one-month high on
speculation that central banks from  Europe  to  China  will ease
monetary policy to spur growth while sanctions against  Iran  may
curb supply.  Prices gained 4.7 percent as the European Central Bank is
forecast to cut  interest rates  this week. A state-owned
newspaper in China said the time is right to increase liquidity
in the banking sector. Iran fired several missiles during a
three-day military exercise as the country threatened to block
tanker traffic in the Strait of Hormuz.  “What you are seeing in the market right now is greater
risk appetite as anticipations of further monetary easing
grow,” said  Harry Tchilinguirian , BNP Paribas SA’s London-based
head of commodity markets strategy. “The market’s focus is
returning back to Iran and the implications of the Iranian
embargo in terms of the volume of oil that needs to be
replaced.”  Oil for August delivery climbed $3.91 to settle at $87.66 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the highest level
since May 30. Futures have increased 13 percent since closing at
an eight-month low of $77.69 a barrel on June 28. They are 11
percent lower this year.  Prices were little changed after the  American Petroleum
Institute  reported oil inventories fell 3.03 million barrels
last week to 382.6 million. The August contract gained 4.6
percent to $87.63 a barrel at 4:45 p.m. in electronic trading on
the Nymex. Futures were at $87.57 before the report was released
at 4:30 p.m. in  Washington .  Closed Tomorrow  The Nymex trading floor will be closed tomorrow for the
U.S. Independence Day holiday.  Brent for August settlement gained $3.34, or 3.4 percent,
to $100.68 on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange,
settling above $100 for the first time since June 6.  The  European Central Bank  and the  Bank of England  will
announce interest-rate decisions on July 5. ECB officials will
lower their benchmark rate by 25 basis points to a record low
0.75 percent, according economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The People’s Bank of China may cut  lenders’ reserve
requirements  to increase liquidity in the banking system,
according to a commentary on the front page of today’s China
Securities Journal, which is published by the official Xinhua
News Agency. The central bank announced a cut to interest rates
on June 7, a day after the newspaper published a commentary
urging the move.  Chinese Stimulus  “There is a better chance that Europe and China are going
to have some monetary stimulus plans and that’s helping oil,”
said Phil Streible, a Chicago-based commodities broker at RJO
Futures. “If Iran does cut tanker traffic,  oil prices  will have
a big advance. You are seeing some risk-on sentiment.”  A European Union embargo on Iranian oil took full effect on
July 1 after exemptions on some contracts and insurance ended.
Iran’s crude exports may drop to about 1 million barrels a day,
Goldman Sachs said in a report yesterday. The country pumped
3.16 million barrels a day in June, the second biggest producer
in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries after  Saudi
Arabia , according to Bloomberg estimates.  “You’ve got saber-rattling by Iran that’s fueling the oil
market,” said Rich Ilczyszyn, chief market strategist and
founder of Iitrader.com in  Chicago . “Did we really think that
Iran would go away quietly?”  Iran Sanctions  Iran’s parliament is working on a bill to close the  Strait
of Hormuz  to  oil tankers  linked to countries applying new EU
sanctions, a lawmaker from the national security committee told
Jam-e-Jam newspaper yesterday. The waterway is a transit route
for a fifth of the world’s crude.  Iran’s Revolutionary Guard Corps “successfully” fired
several missiles, including long-range ones, in a military
exercise that began yesterday, the official  Islamic Republic
News Agency  said in a report published today.  Oil also increased on expectations that stockpiles
decreased last week. Inventories probably dropped  2.3 million
barrels  last week, according to the median of nine analyst
estimates in a Bloomberg  survey  before a July 5 Energy
Department report.  Gasoline supplies increased 1 million barrels last week,
according to the survey. Refineries traditionally step up
operations with the start of the so-called summer driving
season, which runs from Memorial Day at the end of May to Labor
Day in early September.  Factory Orders  Prices followed gains in stocks after the Commerce
Department reported  orders  placed with U.S. factories rose in
May for the first time in three months, easing concern that
manufacturing is faltering.  The 0.7 percent increase in bookings followed a revised 0.7
percent drop in the prior month. The median forecast of
economists in a Bloomberg survey called for a rise of 0.1
percent.  Electronic trading  volume  on the Nymex was 602,651
contracts as of 4:45 p.m. in  New York . Volume totaled 542,783
contracts yesterday, 3.9 percent below the three-month average.
Open interest was 1.42 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  