-- Home Sales Show Bernanke’s Low Rates Are Gaining Traction
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2012-07-03T19:00:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/home-sales-show-bernanke-s-low-rates-gaining-traction-economy.html
For Mike and Kathryn Fry, the time
was right to take advantage of the  Federal Reserve ’s low
interest rates to buy a home.  While the couple had considered buying in recent years,
they never pulled the trigger. That changed in April, when they
decided on a three-bedroom, two-bathroom colonial home in
Arlington,  Virginia , and took out a 30-year fixed-rate  mortgage 
at 3.75 percent.  “It was a combination of our personal finances being ready
and rates being great,” said Mike Fry, 28, who works for a
financial-services company. “The market seemed good, and we
found a house in our  price range .”  Their experience shows how Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s
low interest-rate policy may finally be starting to pull housing
out of a six-year tailspin, providing a boost to the broader
economy. Home buyers are increasingly taking advantage of
record-low borrowing costs as barriers such as falling prices
and an overhang of foreclosures start to dissipate.  “The Fed is very much focused on the housing market
because that’s typically the best way to channel low interest
rates -- through home sales and refinancing,” said  Michelle Meyer , senior U.S. economist at Bank of America Corp. in  New
York . “We are seeing some signs that the credit channel is
unclogging modestly, and the Fed is going to be quite pleased
with that.”  Home Sales  Sales of existing homes rose  9.6 percent  in May from a year
earlier, with  4.6 million  homes changing hands at a seasonally
adjusted annual rate, according to a June 21 report from the
National Association of Realtors. A  15 percent  jump in an index
of contracts to buy existing homes that same month suggests the
market will continue to improve.  The U.S. offers a contrast to the U.K., where the housing
market is slowing amid concern over the economic outlook.
Reports today showed U.K. mortgage approvals fell in May and
construction shrank at the fastest rate in 2 1/2 years in June.  Stocks in the U.S. rose today after a report showing orders
placed with American factories rose in May for the first time in
three months, easing concern that manufacturing is faltering.
The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 0.6 percent to 1,374.02
at 2:57 p.m. in New York.  Fewer banks are tightening their underwriting standards,
and more homeowners are taking advantage of low rates to
refinance their mortgages. Companies such as Discover Financial
Services are jumping into the mortgage-lending business as the
industry revives.  Luxury Homes  “People have been on the sidelines now for five years,”
Douglas Yearley, chief executive of Toll Brothers Inc., the
largest U.S. luxury-home builder, said in a June 14
presentation. “And they need to, want to buy a house and
they’re coming back out. They’re taking advantage of these great
interest rates.”  That was the case for Jennifer and Ethan Ackerman, who
bought a four-bedroom home in Alexandria, Virginia, in May.  “We thought we got a great  interest rate  five years ago
with our first house at 5.25 percent, and now rates are below 4
percent, so we just thought this is a great time to buy,” said
Jennifer Ackerman, 38, a director at a non-profit professional
organization. “That was the real driving factor along with our
family expanding and our old house being really small.”  At 1,900 square feet, their new place is twice as large as
their old duplex and cost just 40 percent more. She estimated
their new house would have cost $100,000 more five years ago.  Fannie, Freddie  Many banks, burned by the housing bust, remain reluctant to
lend to any but the most creditworthy borrowers.  Fannie Mae  and
 Freddie Mac , which buy home loans and package them into
securities with guaranteed payments to investors, require a
minimum credit score of 660 for most home buyers. Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac borrowers have average credit scores of 763 and 758
respectively, according to the firms.  Banks say they may lose money if they lend to borrowers,
who later default, and are forced to buy the loans back from
Fannie and Freddie. The  Federal Housing Finance Agency , which
regulates the two government-sponsored enterprises, is working
on ways to mitigate banks’ fear of the risk of repurchasing
loans at a loss.  Fewer banks are tightening their underwriting standards,
according to the latest annual survey of 87 banks with more than
$3 billion in assets conducted by the Office of the Comptroller
of the Currency.  Underwriting Standards  Ten percent of banks reported easier underwriting
standards, the most since 2007, according to the survey,
released last week. Twenty-five percent reported tightening
standards, the least since 2007.  Standards on prime residential  mortgage loans  and home-
equity loans were about unchanged in the Fed’s April survey of
senior loan officers after tightening earlier.  The survey also indicated demand was strengthening for
prime mortgage loans. And banks that said they would increase
their exposure to residential real estate assets over the coming
year outnumbered those that said would shrink exposure.  Discover Financial Services, led by Chief Executive Officer
David Nelms, has acquired businesses to expand beyond the firm’s
core credit-card operations and began offering mortgages. The
company started offering them last month after buying the assets
of Home Loan Center Inc. for $55.9 million.  “Home loans is a product our customers have been asking
Discover for,” Nelms said in a June 19 conference call.  Monthly Payments  Low rates are also encouraging homeowners to refinance
their properties, cutting monthly payments and leaving
households with more to spend on other goods. The average rate
on a 30-year fixed loan was 3.66 percent last week, compared
with 6.8 percent in July 2006, according to Freddie Mac.  Refinancing volume in the week ended June 15 hit the
highest level in three years, Mortgage Bankers Association data
show. Still, that was down 27 percent from January 2009, when
rates on 30-year loans fell below 6 percent.  One impediment: mortgages that are more than the value of
the home after housing prices  declined  33 percent from April
2006 to April 2012 on a seasonally-adjusted basis.  “The big remaining problem for the housing market is
access to credit,” said  Millan Mulraine , senior U.S. strategist
for TD Securities in New York. “Until we can unlock that
Pandora’s Box, the full impact of the low interest rates won’t
be felt.”  Mulraine sees signs that process could be beginning.  Home
prices  in the S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values in 20
cities posted 0.7 percent gains in both April and March, the
best two-month stretch since 2009.  Stocks Surge  The housing recovery has fueled a 51 percent surge in the
Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Homebuilding Index this year
through yesterday,  compared with  an 8.6 percent gain in the
broader  S&P 500 Index .  Housing-related industries are also seeing gains. Sherwin-
Williams Co., the Cleveland-based paint company, has surged 48
percent this year through yesterday, while Home Depot Inc., the
largest U.S. home-improvement retailer, rose 26 percent.  USG
Corp. (USG) , the Chicago-based maker of Sheetrock wallboard, has
soared  96 percent  to a two-year high.  Bernanke and his fellow Fed policy makers are counting on
housing to help spur the broader economy. They cut their key
 interest rate  almost to zero in December 2008 and have kept it
there since, while also buying $2.3 trillion of Treasuries and
mortgage debt to reduce long-term borrowing costs.  Consumer Wealth  “Housing usually plays a very important role in economic
recovery, both through the construction itself and related
industries, but also because higher  house prices  increase
consumer wealth and promote  consumer spending ,” Bernanke told
reporters at a June 20 press conference.  In the 11 quarters following every recession since 1970,
residential investment contributed 0.4 to 0.8 percentage point
to economic growth on average, accounting for 11 to 17 percent
of gains, according to a June 14  report  from the Joint Center
for Housing Studies of  Harvard University .  Mike Fry, the first-time homeowner in Virginia, said buying
a home has altered the way he and his wife think about spending
and borrowing.  “It’s definitely made us change our spending habits
because we have more to do around the house, like fixing the
fence after the storm this weekend,” Fry said. “We’re starting
to save for a renovation in a few years.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  