-- Oracle Can’t Stop Software License Resales, EU Court Says
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-07-03T13:13:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/oracle-can-t-stop-software-license-resales-eu-court-says-1-.html
Oracle Corp. (ORCL) , the largest maker of
 database software , should lose a court challenge seeking to
prevent a German company from reselling Oracle software
licenses, the European Union’s top court said.  Software copyright owners can’t oppose the resale of
“used” licenses that enable the use of software downloaded
from the Internet, the  European Court  of Justice said today.
Oracle is trying to prevent Munich-based UsedSoft GmbH from
selling computer software and licenses no longer used by the
original buyer.  “Even if the license agreement prohibits a further
transfer the rightholder can no longer oppose the resale of that
copy,” the court in Luxembourg said in a statement advising the
German judges who will ultimately rule on the matter.  Oracle said the ruling ignored the value of innovation and
intellectual property to  Europe ’s economy. The  Redwood City ,
California-based company said in an e-mailed statement that
customers faced unnecessary risks by buying second-hand software
licenses without knowing if the originals were purchased
legally.  UsedSoft said the ruling also applied to computer programs
sold by Microsoft Corp. and  Adobe Systems Inc. (ADBE)   “This decision is a milestone for free trade in Europe,”
said Peter Schneider, the managing director of UsedSoft. “This
is particularly good news for customers who can finally benefit
from low software prices without restrictions.”  The court judgment set limits on software resales, saying
the original buyer must make their own copy unusable when he
sells it on. Resellers also aren’t authorized to divide a
license for several users and to sell them separately, the court
said in the statement.  The case is:  C-128/11  Axel W. Bierbach (liquidator of
UsedSoft GmbH) v Oracle International Corp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  