-- OraSure Wins U.S. FDA Approval for First At-Home HIV Test
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-07-03T17:09:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/orasure-wins-u-s-fda-approval-for-first-at-home-hiv-test.html
OraSure Technologies Inc. (OSUR)  won
approval for the first at-home HIV test that lets people get
results without using a doctor or laboratory.  The  Food and Drug Administration  cleared the saliva test
that offers results within 20 to 40 minutes and would be sold
without a prescription, the agency said today in a  statement .
Sales may reach $20 million next year assuming a $40 price tag
for the product from Bethlehem, Pennsylvania-based OraSure, said
Caroline Corner, a senior analyst with McNicoll, Lewis & Vlak in
New York, before the agency’s announcement.  About 250,000 people at risk of HIV aren’t tested. Advisers
to the agency who backed the device May 15 said it may help
reduce that number. About 1.2 million people in the U.S. have
HIV, the virus that causes AIDS, and 20 percent of those people
are unaware they are infected, according to the  Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention .  “Knowing your status is an important factor in the effort
to prevent the spread of HIV,” Karen Midthun, director of the
FDA’s Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research, said in the
statement. “The availability of a home-use HIV test kit
provides another option for individuals to get tested so that
they can seek medical care, if appropriate.”  OraSure also markets the only FDA-approved rapid test that
detects HIV antibodies in oral fluid and provides results in a
clinic or doctor’s office. Other at-home kits, such as Home
Access Health Corp.’s Express HIV Test System, require users to
send blood samples to a laboratory.  ‘Major Breakthrough’  “Approval of the OraQuick In-Home HIV Test represents a
major breakthrough in HIV testing,” said Douglas A. Michels,
president and chief executive officer of OraSure Technologies.
“For the first time ever, individuals will have access to an
in-home oral test that will empower them to learn their HIV
status in the comfort of their home and obtain referral to care
if needed.”  OraSure increased 5.2 percent to $12.10 at the close in  New
York . The company’s shares have gained 36 percent in the past 12
months.  FDA staff had raised concerns in a report May 11 that a
high number of people with HIV would test negative using
OraSure’s kit.  Final-phase trials of the home test confirmed 5,384 of
5,385 negative users resulting in one false positive, according
to the FDA staff report. It also detected 106 of 114 confirmed
positive users resulting in eight false negatives.  Test Accuracy  The test used by professionals that is on the market is 99
percent accurate at detecting those with HIV compared with a 93
percent accuracy rate for those with HIV who would test at home.  Regulators urged people who receive a positive result with
the at-home kit to confirm the finding with their doctors and a
laboratory-based test.  “Similarly, a negative test result does not mean that an
individual is definitely not infected with HIV, particularly
when exposure may have been within the previous three months,”
the agency said in its statement.  More than 16,000 people with AIDS were estimated to have
died in 2008, the CDC said. About 50,000 new U.S. cases are
reported a year, according to the CDC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  