-- Orders to U.S. Factories Rise for First Time in Three Months
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-07-03T20:42:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/orders-to-u-s-factories-increase-for-first-time-in-three-months.html
Orders placed with U.S. factories
rose in May for the first time in three months, easing concern
that manufacturing is faltering. Auto sales for June also
exceeded analysts’ estimates.  The 0.7 percent increase in  bookings  followed a revised 0.7
percent drop in the prior month, the Commerce Department said
today in  Washington . The  median  forecast of economists in a
Bloomberg News survey called for a rise to 0.1 percent.  Europe’s debt crisis and a slowdown in Asian markets
including  China  is restraining exports, weighing on the outlook
for manufacturers like  Joy Global  Inc. and  DuPont Co. (CAT)  Business
investment, a mainstay of growth, will provide less of a boost
to the economy as a weakening labor market holds back American
consumers from boosting purchases of vehicles and other goods.  “Orders were so weak in prior months that the healthy gain
in May is not enough to buck the softening trend,” said Ellen Zentner, a senior economist at Nomura Securities International
Inc. in New York, who projected a gain of 0.9 percent.
“Business caution has become more pervasive.”  Stocks rallied after the report. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index climbed 0.6 percent to 1,374.02, a two-month high, at the
close of trading in  New York .  Estimates in the Bloomberg survey of 52 economists ranged
from a drop of 1.3 percent to a gain of 1 percent. The Commerce
Department revised the April figure from a previously reported
drop of 0.6 percent.  Excluding Transportation  Excluding transportation equipment, factory orders
increased 0.4 percent in May after falling 0.9 percent the prior
month.  Bookings for durable goods, those meant to last at least
three years climbed 1.3 percent, also the first gain in three
months. They make up just over half of total factory demand.
Today’s reading was more than the 1.1 percent gain estimated by
the government on June 27. Demand for non-durable goods,
including petroleum, increased 0.2 percent.  Orders for capital goods excluding aircraft and military
equipment, a measure of future business investment, advanced 2.1
percent, more than the 1.6 percent gain estimated last week,
after falling 1.5 percent the prior month.  Shipments of those goods, used in calculating gross
domestic product, increased 0.6 percent, more than previously
projected, after dropping 1.5 percent in April.  Household Spending  An  unemployment rate  exceeding 8 percent is restraining
household spending, which accounts for about 70 percent of the
economy. Cars and light trucks sold at a  13.7 million  annual
rate in May, the weakest this year and down from April’s 14.4
million pace, Ward’s Automotive Group data showed.  Sales accelerated to a 14.1 million annual rate in June,
helping the industry stay on pace for the best year since 2007.
The pace compares with the 13.8 million light-vehicle rate that
was the average estimate of 15 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Factory inventories decreased 0.2 percent in May for a
second month, today’s report showed. The draw down in stockpiles
may prompt some economists to cut estimates for second-quarter
gross domestic product.  Factory shipments climbed 0.5 percent in May, the report
also showed. The gain in sales combined with the drop in stocks
brought the inventory-to-shipments ratio down to 1.27 months,
the lowest reading since September, from 1.28 months in April.  Manufacturing accounts for about 12 percent of the economy
and has been at the forefront of the recovery that began June
2009. Cooling business investment means it may offer less
support to the expansion in the second quarter.  ISM Index  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s  index  fell to 49.7 in
June, the first contraction in almost three years and worse than
the most-pessimistic forecast in a Bloomberg News survey, a
report showed yesterday.  Regional figures reinforce the slowdown. Manufacturing in
the Philadelphia area shrank in June at the fastest pace in
almost a year, while New York-region factories expanded at the
slowest rate in seven months.  Executives at Wilmington, Delaware-based DuPont, the third-
largest U.S. chemical maker, said while growth in  North America 
is holding up, they are concerned about a slowdown in China and
 Germany ’s dependence on exports.  “My number one worry is what will happen in Europe over
the next six to nine months,” Diane Gulyas, group vice
president of DuPont’s performance-materials segment, said on a
conference call with analysts on June 14.  Joy Global, the maker of P&H and Joy mining equipment, cut
forecasts for full-year earnings and revenue as companies ease
capital expenditure amid concern over the slowdown in China.
Equipment orders fell 62 percent in the fiscal second quarter
from a year earlier primarily due to a weak U.S. coal market,
the Milwaukee-based company said in May.  The rest of the world is reporting weaker results. Euro-
area manufacturing contracted for an 11th straight month in June
as  Europe ’s debt crisis sapped demand. A manufacturing
purchasing managers’ index for China fell to 48.2 last month
from 48.4 in May, HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  