-- Morgan Stanley Cuts Forecasts for Commodity-Linked Assets
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-07-03T17:31:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/morgan-stanley-cuts-forecasts-for-commodity-linked-assets.html
Morgan Stanley (MS)  cut its forecasts for
the Australian, Canadian and  New Zealand  dollars, citing what it
called an increasingly challenging global economic environment
for the commodity-exporting countries.  The Aussie will depreciate to 95 U.S. cents by year-end,
compared with the previous projection of 99 cents, New York-
based Morgan Stanley said in a note today. New Zealand’s dollar
will finish the year at 75 U.S. cents, compared with the earlier
forecast of 80 cents. The Canadian dollar will weaken to C$1.06
against its U.S. counterpart, versus the previous forecast of
C$1.03, the firm said.  Weakening global growth indicators are affecting commodity
currencies, according to the note from  Ian Stannard , head of
European currency strategy at the firm in  London . Purchasing-
manager indexes for manufacturing in many Group of 10 nations
have dropped below their lows of late last year, he wrote, and
central banks are being more cautious.  “Declining growth indicators and a muted policy response
are likely to leave the high-beta currencies in a vulnerable
position,” the Morgan Stanley strategist wrote. Beta measures
risk relative to a market.  The Australian currency traded today at $1.0286 in New
York, while New Zealand’s dollar was at 80.48 U.S. cents and the
Canadian dollar at C$1.0131 to the greenback.  The  European Central Bank  will cut its benchmark  interest
rate  a quarter-percentage point to 0.75 percent at its meeting
on July 5, according to economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  “The central-bank meeting isn’t going to be enough to lift
global risk appetite,” Stannard said in a telephone interview.
“We’re going to get monetary easing that is aimed more at
responding to a more traditional growth slowdown rather than
trying to boost risk appetite.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in  New York  at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  