-- Osborne’s Attempts to Blame Labour on Libor Risk Own Inquiry
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2012-07-03T17:50:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/osborne-risks-own-banking-inquiry-with-attempts-to-blame-labour.html
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  may have jeopardized a U.K. parliamentary inquiry into
the bank interest-rate rigging scandal as opposition Labour
Party lawmakers rejected his effort to blame them.  Labour’s business spokesman, Chuka Umunna, expressed
concern today that the inquiry would be an effort “to make
party-political points.” He cited the House of Commons debate
yesterday in which Osborne said he’d like to see Labour Treasury
spokesman  Ed Balls  “in the dock” over the affair that prompted
 Barclays Plc (BARC)  Chief Executive Officer  Robert Diamond  to quit this
morning.  Andrew Tyrie , the Conservative lawmaker picked by Osborne
to head the limited probe announced yesterday, said he’d only go
ahead on a bipartisan basis. That suggests it won’t proceed
without Labour backing. Today the government began to back down,
announcing a debate on July 5 on whether to hold an inquiry run
by members of both houses of Parliament, as proposed by Osborne,
or an open-ended judge-led inquiry, as requested by Labour.  “I’m certainly not going to want to run an inquiry that is
in any sense partisan or perceived to be partisan,” Tyrie, who
heads the Commons Treasury Committee, told the  BBC  last night.
“And I wouldn’t be prepared to participate if that were the
case.”  Banking Bill  Prime Minister  David Cameron  said yesterday a judicial
inquiry of the type currently looking into the media and phone-
hacking would take too long to report. He said he wanted
recommendations of this probe to be incorporated into his
Banking Bill, to be put before Parliament in January.  “I suspect Labour might have tried to argue this anyway,
but Osborne’s language has given them the cover to do it,”
 Philip Cowley , professor of politics at Nottingham University,
said in a telephone interview. “The Labour rank-and-file have
doubts about how impartial this inquiry is going to be.”  Announcing the July 5 debate, George Young, the leader of
the House of Commons, suggested Tyrie might use the opportunity
to suggest a third alternative. Labour’s  John Healey  suggested
Tyrie’s committee could handle the entire inquiry, without any
members of the upper, unelected House of Lords.  The Lords later voted down a Labour motion seeking a
judicial inquiry by 251 to 197.  ‘Most Afraid’  Osborne argued today that he was helping Labour by not
holding a judicial inquiry. “The people who will be most afraid
of where any inquiry goes are the people who were in charge at
the time,” he told the BBC. “No one more than me would like to
see Ed Balls in the dock.”  Labour leader  Ed Miliband  said Cameron would be “failing
to understand both the gravity and scale of this crisis” if he
didn’t change his position. “This is about much more than one
individual, it’s about the culture and practices of the banking
industry,” he said. “We’ve got to seize this moment.”  Judge Brian Leveson’s inquiry into media ethics has proved
uncomfortable for the government. It has seen a third of the
Cabinet questioned under oath and the publication of private
 text messages  between the premier and media executives.  In terms of the possible scope of Tyrie’s investigation,
the Commons Culture Committee began looking this time last year
at how it came to be misled by  News Corp. (NWSA)  over the extent of
phone hacking at the News of the World newspaper. It called 11
witnesses, finishing hearings in November, and didn’t report
until the end of April of this year. It split along party lines
over its conclusion that News Corp. Chairman and CEO  Rupert Murdoch  wasn’t a fit and proper person to run a company.  “It’s pretty rare for committees to split,” Conservative
lawmaker  David Davis  told Sky News television. “That was
unusual.”  Cameron’s office said yesterday the joint committee’s wider
inquiry would have the power to force witnesses to appear and
give evidence under oath. A government paper published in April
said while such powers, along with the power to fine or imprison
witnesses for contempt, have existed historically, they’re
“untested in recent times.” The Commons hasn’t levied a fine
on a non-member since 1666.  Osborne said former Labour ministers would also be called
to testify.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  