-- Osborne Hails Diamond Departure With Pledge to Fix Banks
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2012-07-03T09:20:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/osborne-hails-diamond-departure-with-pledge-to-fix-banks.html
U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  said  Robert Diamond ’s move to quit as chief
executive officer of  Barclays Plc (BARC)  was “the right decision.”  Diamond will step down with immediate effect, the London-
based bank said in a statement today, succumbing to political
pressure to go after the lender admitted to rigging global
 interest rates .  “It’s the right decision for Barclays, it’s the right
decision for the country; we need Barclays to be focused on
lending,” Osborne told BBC Radio 4’s “Today” program. “I
hope it’s the first step towards a new culture of responsibility
in British banking.”  Diamond is the latest British banker to bow to political
pressure. In January,  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  Chief
Executive Officer  Stephen Hester  decided to waive his bonus
after the opposition  Labour Party  threatened to call a
parliamentary vote on it.  While  David Cameron ’s government stopped short of
explicitly telling Diamond to go, the prime minister last week
said he wanted accountability “all the way to the top” of the
bank. “I don’t think it is for prime ministers to hire and fire
bank chiefs,” he told lawmakers yesterday. Labour leader  Ed Miliband  had been clearer. After speaking to Diamond last week,
he decided he had to go and called publicly for his resignation.  Need for ‘Leadership’  Osborne said the bank’s chairman, Marcus Agius, advised him
of the decision last night. The chancellor said staff working at
the bank “want to make sure that there is leadership there”
and that the public, “who depend on the strong economy,” need
“a  Barclays Bank  that is well-led, that is strong and is
contributing to the economy.”  Agius, who said yesterday he would step down, will become
full-time chairman and lead the search for a new CEO.  Barclays was hit by a record 290 million-pound ($455
million) fine last week for rigging the benchmark London
interbank offered rate. Diamond had yesterday defied pressure to
quit, pledging to implement the findings of a review into how
the bank sets the rate.  Diamond will appear before Parliament’s Treasury Committee
to answer questions about the affair tomorrow. Agius is due the
following day. Labour’s  John Mann , a member of the committee,
told Sky News television that Diamond should hand back his
bonuses, and added that he’d be asking which other banks were
implicated in the scandal.  “I expect him to point the finger at everyone other than
Barclays,” Mann said. “What other banks were participating in
the same activities as Barclays? I suspect he’ll know.”  Osborne again rejected calls from Labour for a judicial
inquiry into wrongdoing at banks. Finance “is an incredibly
important industry,” he said. “It’s Britain’s largest private-
sector employer. What we don’t need is its reputation tarnished,
navel-gazing over these scandals. We know what went wrong, now
we’ve got to fix it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  