-- Toshiba Conspired With Competitors on LCD Prices, Jury Rules
-- B y   P a m e l a   A .   M a c L e a n   a n d   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-07-03T18:44:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/toshiba-conspired-with-competitors-on-lcd-prices-jury-rules-1-.html
Toshiba Corp. (6502)  conspired with
competitors to fix the price of display screens and is liable
for $87 million in damages, a U.S. jury ruled.  The 10-member jury, after deliberating in federal court in
 San Francisco  for less than two days, found the company liable
to manufacturers that used the displays for $17 million in
damages and liable to consumers, who purchased finished
products, for $70 million. Under antitrust law, defendants can
be assessed damages of three times the overcharge, or $261
million in the jury’s decision today.  Toshiba, based in  Tokyo , was accused of meeting with
competitors in hotel rooms to set prices for thin-film-
transistor liquid crystal displays, or LCD panels, from 1999 to
2006. The  lawsuit  was brought on behalf of U.S. makers of
digital signs, home-theater equipment, laptop computers and
office networks that bought the panels.  “We’re very happy” with the verdict, said Bruce Simon, a
lawyer for the plaintiffs.  Toshiba said it will appeal the verdict.  “Toshiba plans to pursue all available legal avenues to
correct that finding,” spokesman Julius Christensen said in an
e-mail statement.  The company has “consistently maintained that there was no
illegal activity on its part in the LCD business in the  United
States ,” Christensen said.  Tobisha doesn’t plan to “revise projections for fiscal
2012 business performance due to this matter,” he said.  ‘Gray Area’  Jury forewoman Sara Alarcon said after the verdict that
jurors never considered an amount for liability as high as what
the plaintiffs sought. Overcharges linked to price fixing may
total $867 million, lawyers for the plaintiffs said in court
filings.  “We were not presented with a smoking gun,” Alarcon said.
“There was a lot of gray area.”  Toshiba, builder of nuclear power plants and notebook
computers, was the lone defendant on trial after at least seven
Japanese, Taiwanese and South Korean panel makers settled
buyers’ civil claims.  Sharp Corp. (6753)  and  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) 
were among those who agreed to pay $927 million in settlements
reached in December.  AU Optronics Corp. (2409) , Taiwan’s second-largest LCD maker,
reached a settlement, lawyers said in April.  LG Display Co. (034220)  on
May 1 resolved claims by consumers in eight U.S. states. Amounts
weren’t disclosed.  Hotel Meetings  A U.S.  Justice Department  criminal investigation of LCD
price fixing led to guilty pleas by LG Display, Chunghwa Picture
Tubes and Sharp. The companies agreed in 2008 and 2009 to pay
$585 million in criminal fines. Toshiba wasn’t indicted in the
criminal probe.  Toshiba had denied participating in a conspiracy or fixing
prices. Company lawyers argued the executives met with
competitors occasionally for legitimate reasons. Toshiba also
said it wasn’t making the type of products that were the subject
of the meetings at the hotel, which were known as the crystal
meetings.  AU Optronics made similar arguments unsuccessfully in a
criminal trial. The company, its vice chairman and a senior vice
president were convicted in March of colluding with rivals to
fix LCD prices. AU Optronics faces a fine of as much as
$1 billion, according to the Justice Department.  The case is In re TFT-LCD (Flat Panel)  Antitrust
Litigation , 07-1827, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
 California  (San Francisco).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pamela MacLean at  pmaclean@pacbell.net ;
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  