-- OTE Flips From Worst to First in Bond Rally: Corporate Finance
-- B y   H a n n a h   B e n j a m i n
-- 2012-07-04T09:52:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/ote-flips-from-worst-to-first-in-bond-rally-corporate-finance.html
Hellenic Telecommunications
Organization SA (HTO)  has gone from being the biggest loser in
 Europe ’s bond market to the best performer as its debt reduction
plan kicks in and concern  Greece  will exit the euro recedes.  The phone company’s 3.25 billion euros ($4.1 billion) of
bonds in the Bank of America Merrill Lynch Euro High Yield Index
gained 13.15 percent in June, compared with an average return of
1.98 percent for the gauge. That’s a reversal from May, when the
Athens-based borrower lost 18.7 percent and debt of  Tokyo
Electric Power Co. (9501)  and  Edison SpA (EDN)  of  Italy  led gains of as much
as 3.51 percent.  OTE, as Greece’s biggest telecommunications operator is
also known, appointed former National Bank of Greece official
Babis Mazarakis as chief financial officer on June 28, three
days after saying it may sell Bulgarian businesses to help lower
its 3.4 billion-euro net debt. The 63-year-old company posted a
10-fold increase in first-quarter profit and benefited from
expectations a new government will keep Greece in the euro area.  “The company is performing very well and as long as Greece
stays in the euro it should be able to manage its situation and
pay down debt through asset sales and free cashflow,” said
Stuart Stanley, a  fund manager  at Invesco Asset Management Ltd.
in  London  who oversees $3 billion of high-yield bonds. “If
Greece exits, all bets are off.”  Bigger Jump  Hellenic Telecom’s most-traded bonds, its 1.24 billion
euros of 5 percent senior notes due August 2013, have risen 28
percent since June 1 to 83.1 cents on the euro, according to
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. That’s a bigger jump than in any
month since the securities were sold nine years ago, pushing the
yield down to 24.8 percent from a record 60.4 percent on May 17.  The price regained 93 percent of its losses since it
started falling at the end of March as Greece lurched through a
political and banking crisis that threatened the future of the
17-nation currency union. Antonis Samaras was sworn in last
month as Greece’s fourth prime minister since November after
pro-bailout parties won more than half the seats in parliament
and voters backed the country to stay in the currency union.  Kanakaris Konstantinos, a spokesman for  Hellenic Telecom  in
 Athens , declined to comment. He said that Mazarakis, who was CFO
of National Bank of Greece from 2010 until last month, couldn’t
be interviewed because he’d just started in the job.  Balkans Sales  OTE is mulling the sale of its Bulgarian phone company
Globul and electronic goods retailer Germanos Telecom  Bulgaria 
to “drastically reduce its future financial obligations,” it
said June 25.  The company sold a 20 percent stake in  Serbia ’s former
phone monopoly earlier this year. The sales of its units in the
Balkans will provide about 850 million euros, estimated Vangelis Memos, a fund manager at Athens-based Ate Aedak.  OTE ended the first quarter with net borrowing of 3.4
billion euros, down from 4.3 billion euros a year earlier, it
said in its May 10 earnings statement. The phone company said
its strategy to refinance debt is “well underway” and that it
intends to reduce borrowing while extending the maturity of the
debt it keeps on.  Hellenic Telecom has a 445 million-euro loan and a 312
million-euro revolving-credit facility due in September,
according to its  website . The company said it has a 900 million-
euro revolving credit, 600 million euros of which has been drawn
and is due for repayment next year if a one-year extension
option isn’t exercised. OTE’s  overall debt  totals 4.94 billion
euros, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Profit Boost  Hellenic Telecom reported earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization of 1.7 billion euros for last
year.  Standard & Poor’s  said in June it expects the company to
maintain adjusted debt to Ebitda of 2.7 times for 2012.  OTE’s profit increased to 307 million euros in the first
quarter of this year, from 30 million euros in the same period
of 2011, it said in a statement on its website. Most of the
increase came from a 211 million-euro gain from the company’s
sale of a stake in a Serbian unit, while a rise in domestic
mobile revenues to 377 million euros from 375 million euros also
contributed.  “That it grew its mobile business in the first quarter is
very impressive and gives me confidence that the company’s doing
the right things to turn itself around,” said Sam Morton, a
telecoms, media and technology analyst at Mizuho International
Plc in London. Even so, “it’s not surprising that it’s been one
of the most volatile names,” he said.  Bucking Trend  OTE has  surged  76 percent since June 1 to 2.09 euros a
share in Athens trading, valuing the company at 1.02 billion
euros, Bloomberg data show. The stock is still down 25 percent
this year and fell to an all-time low of 1.09 euros on June 5.  The rise in Hellenic Telecom’s bonds is bucking the trend
of its European peers, whose debt lost an average 1.6 percent in
June, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s EUR
Corporates, Telecommunications index. Investors view such
companies as havens because of their geographical
diversification and recession-proof services.  That means their bonds often decline when credit markets
rally, as they did last month.  Telefonica SA (TEF)  of Spain and U.K.
telecommunications company Everything Everywhere Ltd. had the
worst-performing bonds in the gauge, losing 3.66 percent and 2.3
percent in June, respectively. OTE tends not to be viewed as a
haven because it’s Greek and 10 percent government-owned.  Euro Exit  Moody’s Investors Service downgraded OTE by one level to
Caa1 with a negative outlook on June 11, meaning it’s a “very
high credit risk,” according to the rating firm’s definitions.
S&P lowered the company’s rating by one level to B-with a
negative outlook on June 7.  Fitch Ratings  cut the grading by
four steps to B- with negative watch on May 18, the day after it
downgraded Greece to CCC from B-.  Fitch said in its May 18 report that a re-denomination of
Greece’s currency following a euro exit would affect Hellenic
Telecom’s ability to repay debt. “Euro-denominated debt holders
would suffer the economic loss of a debt restructuring or forced
redenomination,” analysts led by Mike Dunning in London wrote.  The election result may ease OTE’s efforts to get its banks
to roll over the debt it has maturing next year, London-based
CreditSights Inc. analysts David Watts and  Mark Chapman  said in
a June 20 report. The outcome also increases the likelihood of
support from OTE’s  largest shareholder ,  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ,
which has a 40 percent stake, they said.  ‘See Value’  “A Greek exit from the euro would likely cause a
substantial sell-off in OTE bonds,” the analysts wrote. “We
continue to see value for investors willing to weather
significant further volatility.”  OTE’s 2013 bond rose 8 cents on the euro, or 11 percent,
since the June 17 Greek election, Bloomberg Bond Trader prices
show. The yield relative to benchmark German government debt
narrowed to 25 percentage points from a high of 60 percentage
points a month before the poll.  “The bonds have had an amazing rally due to the aversion
of a Greek election disaster,” said Dimitris Dalipis, a fund
manager at Alpha Trust Mutual Fund Management SA in Athens, who
said he owns Hellenic Telecom’s notes. “I find it difficult for
OTE to decouple from politics but it’s still a strong company
with great fundamentals.”  The cost of insuring OTE’s bonds fell 40 percent since June
1, with credit-default swaps on the company dropping to 2,018
basis points from 3,366, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a borrower
fail to adhere to its debt commitments. A basis point on a
contract protecting 10 million euros of debt for five years is
equivalent to 1,000 euros a year. A decline signals improvement
in investor perceptions of a borrower’s creditworthiness.  “The main driver is the seeming stabilization of the
political scenery in Athens following the new government,” said
George Satlas, the Athens-based head of investments at the
Mutual Funds of Postal Savings Bank and Hellenic Post, which
owns the phone company’s bonds. “There could be room for some
more upside, as long as confidence is strengthened.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hannah Benjamin in London at 
 hbenjamin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  