-- Tottenham Hires Villas-Boas as Manager to Succeed Redknapp
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2012-07-03T14:00:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/tottenham-hires-andre-villas-boas-as-manager-to-succeed-redknapp.html
Tottenham Hotspur hired Andre Villas- Boas as manager to succeed  Harry Redknapp , the English Premier
League soccer club said.  Villas-Boas, 34, joins Spurs on a three-year contract, four
months after being fired by Chelsea. Tottenham didn’t disclose
financial terms in an announcement on its  website . The Sun
reported yesterday he would earn about 4 million pounds ($6.2
million) per season.  “He has an outstanding reputation for his technical
knowledge of the game and for creating well-organized teams,”
Tottenham Chairman  Daniel Levy  said. “Andre shares our long-
term ambitions and ethos of developing players and nurturing
young talent.”  Villas-Boas joins a club that finished fourth last season,
though missed out on next season’s  Champions League  because
London rival Chelsea won Europe’s elite club competition in May
to take  England ’s fourth spot in the tournament.  Redknapp, 65, left Tottenham last month after almost four
years in charge. He took over Spurs when they were bottom of the
Premier League in October 2008 and led the club to finishes of
eighth, fourth and fifth in his first three seasons.  “This is one of the most exciting coaching positions in
the Premier League,” Villas-Boas said. “This is a squad any
coach would love to work with and together I believe we can
bring success in the seasons ahead.”  Redknapp was the bookmakers’ favorite to get the England
manager’s job after Fabio Capello quit in February and Spurs’
league form stuttered amid the speculation.  Roy Hodgson  was
appointed to the national post at the start of May.  Redknapp had a year remaining on his Tottenham contract,
and left after talks on a new agreement broke down, the  Daily
Telegraph  reported.  Eight Months  Chelsea fired Villas-Boas on March 4 after eight months in
charge as the team fell back in the race for the final Champions
League berth following a run of three wins in 12 games.  The Blues went on to win the European Cup last season under
interim manager Roberto Di Matteo, who was appointed on a
permanent basis June 13. Chelsea beat  Bayern Munich  in a penalty
shootout in the May 19 final at their opponent’s home stadium.  Villas-Boas will give up 10.8 million pounds of severance
pay by taking the Tottenham job, the Sun reported. Chelsea has
been paying him 100,000 pounds a week until he got a new job and
he will be forced to give up payments for a further 25 months
after he takes up his new position, the newspaper added.  Villas-Boas had joined Chelsea after winning the second-
tier Europa League in 2011 in his first season at Porto, along
with Portugal’s domestic league and cup.  Villas-Boas never played soccer professionally, and got
coaching qualifications when he was 17. Former England national
coach  Bobby Robson  picked him to work with Porto’s youth-team
coaches, and then Villas-Boas joined the staff of  Jose Mourinho 
at Porto, Chelsea and  Inter Milan .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  