-- How Radical Economics Led to U.S. Independence
-- B y   W i l l i a m   H o g e l a n d
-- 2012-07-03T16:29:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/how-radical-economics-led-to-u-s-independence.html
Big historical events often come to
seem inevitable, and little today seems more inevitable in
retrospect than America’s declaring independence on July 4,
1776.  So it can be startling to recall that well into the spring
and early summer of that year, the Continental Congress meeting
at the State House in Philadelphia was by no means committed to
declaring independence. Until the last minute, powerful men in
the Congress still hoped to negotiate a settlement with  England .  Even more surprising may be that without a crew of lower-
class Philadelphia organizers, collaborating secretly with
independence-minded gentlemen in the Congress, the declaration
never would have occurred. Most outlandish of all: Those down-
at-the-heels outsiders had ideas about economics and finance --
some today would call them “socialist” -- far more radically
democratic than anything espoused by better-known founders.  Radical economics, in fact, was key to gaining American
independence.  We often hear from historians that modern ideas about
economic equality and financial fairness shouldn’t be read
backward, anachronistically, into the thinking of great men like
John Adams,  Thomas Jefferson  and others who signed the
Declaration of Independence. Almost all those men were more
concerned with preserving and advancing individual liberty than
with passing laws making economic life more equal. The founders
took for granted and even endorsed a degree of class difference
among Americans that we don’t accept today.  Economic Privilege  Most of them -- even Jefferson -- believed that people
without sufficient property shouldn’t get to vote. In many
states formed after independence, property qualifications
prevailed for voting, with even higher qualifications for
holding office. To the famous founders, wise political
leadership was equated with economic privilege.  But there were other thinkers on economics and finance in
founding-era America who took another view. In Philadelphia,
outsiders such as Thomas Young, James Cannon, Christopher
Marshall, Timothy Matlack, and Thomas Paine (the only one well
known to us) formed a group dedicated to gaining political
participation for landless laborers, lower artisans, tenant
farmers and others whom upscale revolutionary leaders had barred
from representative government.  The radicals’ goal in seeking poor and working-class access
to the franchise was to legislate economic fairness. Some of
what they wanted will sound familiar from our own debates about
finance: debt relief, easier credit for working people, an end
to widespread foreclosure and progressive taxation. To those
radicals, independence looked like a chance to make their ideas
into realities.  In the spring and early summer of 1776, coordinated largely
by  John Adams ’s older second cousin Samuel Adams, a secret
coalition -- upscale gentlemen in the Congress, lower-class
insurgents outdoors -- disabled the elected government of
Pennsylvania, the Congress’s host, led by the most powerful
politician in the country, John Dickinson. Pennsylvania was so
strategically and economically important -- already the
“Keystone State” -- that without its support, independence
couldn’t be declared. And although he was a committed patriot,
Dickinson firmly opposed independence.  The Coup  So while John Adams battered Pennsylvania in the Congress
with resolutions and preambles, the radicals outdoors organized
the whole state’s working class. The coup, when it came, was
military but bloodless. The rank and file of the state’s militia
-- the privates, with the officers following their men --
supported by Adams’s resolutions in the Congress, refused to
take further orders from Dickinson’s  Pennsylvania  assembly.  Their reason? As unpropertied and less-propertied men, they
were, they said, “not represented in that house.” That was a
radical idea about the basis of representative rights. And
although John Adams, for one, collaborated with the men who
advanced it, he certainly didn’t share it.  Of course, we know how the larger story went. On July 2,
with Dickinson now impotent, the Congress adopted a resolution
for independence. Two days later, it issued the famous
Declaration. Celebrating with hot dogs came much later.  But there was another climax in the summer of 1776, less
well-known but especially relevant to our current economic
debate. The Pennsylvania radicals wrote a new constitution for
their state, in which voting wasn’t qualified by property. Nor
was holding office. For the first time, laborers, tenant farmers
and others without financial privilege could take full part in
government.  Some of the radicals’ economic hopes were surprisingly
extreme. Some pushed for a provision in the state constitution
limiting how much property any one person could own. That didn’t
pass, but assemblies elected under the new Pennsylvania
constitution began working on such things as price controls,
devaluation of  public debt  and progressive taxes. They removed a
bank charter on the grounds that it served only high financiers,
not the whole people.  “Good God!” John Adams said when he read the Pennsylvania
constitution. He wanted nothing to do with the radical economics
he had helped enable. Yet without that radicalism, and without
the Adamses’ collaboration with it, America wouldn’t have
declared independence on July 4, 1776.  ( William Hogeland  is the author of “Declaration: The Nine
Tumultuous Weeks That Made America Independent” and the
forthcoming “Founding Finance: How Debt, Speculation,
Foreclosures, Protests, and Crackdowns Made Us a Nation.” The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more Echoes columns  online .  To contact the writer of this post: William Hogeland at
 hogeland.william@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this post: Timothy Lavin
at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 