-- Pace of CLO Issuance Surpasses 2011 Offerings, Wells Fargo Says
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   I d z e l i s
-- 2012-07-03T14:33:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/pace-of-clo-issuance-surpasses-2011-offerings-wells-fargo-says.html
Sales of collateralized loan
obligations, which finance buyouts and mergers, have tripled
this year as investors seek out higher yielding assets even as
 Europe ’s debt crisis has stalled the global economic recovery.  Seven deals were issued in June for a combined $3.2
billion, bringing this year’s total to $17 billion, according to
a June 28 Wells Fargo & Co. report. Companies offered $5.9
billion of CLOs in the first six months last year and $12.9
billion in all of 2011, the report shows.  Issuance of the securities has climbed this year at a
“slow and steady pace” amid a sovereign-debt crisis in Europe
and heightened volatility across markets, Wells Fargo analysts
including Dave Preston and Zachary Bolster wrote in the report.
Transactions were completed even as relative yields on CLOs
widened in the second half of last month.  “Investors can most likely find amenable pricing terms, as
managers attempt to finish CLOs ahead of additional future
volatility,” the analysts wrote in the report. “Specifically,
savvy investors may find bargains in the single A and BBB
tranches.”  CLOs are a type of collateralized debt obligation that pool
high-yield, high-risk loans and slice them into securities of
varying risk and return.  CLO slices rated A by  Standard & Poor’s  have traded at
spreads ranging between 550 basis points to 700 basis points
more than benchmark rates, while the level for the BBB portion
is around 800 basis points to 900 basis points, according to
Well Fargo research. The least risky AAA portion of the funds
trades between 170 basis points and 200 basis points, the report
shows. A basis point is one hundredth of a percentage point.  New CLOs  Last week,  Credit Suisse Group AG (CS)  raised a $413.4 million
CLO for Prudential Investment Management Inc., according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The Dryden XXIII Senior Loan Fund
includes a $270.5 million portion rated AAA by S&P that has a
coupon that pays 149 basis points more than the London interbank
offered rate.  CIFC Asset Management LLC’s $464 million fund priced a $280
million slice rated AAA with a coupon of 144 basis points more
than Libor, which is the rate at which banks say they can borrow
in dollars from each other.  “It remains to be seen how much volatility the primary
market can withstand, but continued primary issuance is a
positive for CLO investors and managers,” the Wells Fargo
analysts wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Idzelis in  New York  at 
 cidzelis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  