-- Pemex Reform Harder as PRI Misses Majority in Congress
-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n   a n d   C a r l o s   M a n u e l   R o d r i g u e z
-- 2012-07-03T15:27:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/pemex-overhaul-harder-as-pri-misses-mexican-congress-majority.html
Incoming Mexican President Enrique Pena Nieto will struggle to overhaul the state-run oil industry,
a project he has called his “signature issue,” after his party
won fewer seats in Congress than pre-election polls forecast.  With more than 90 percent of votes counted, Jorge Carlos
Ramirez, Pena Nieto’s deputy campaign chief, estimated yesterday
that the Institutional Revolutionary Party-led alliance will
have about 241 lawmakers in the 500-seat lower house.  That leaves Pena Nieto dependent on the opposition to
overhaul tax and labor laws, and his PRI well short of the two-
thirds majority needed for constitutional changes to open up the
oil industry to private investment. He must now convince much of
the opposition and his own party to back a law that he says is
needed to reverse seven years of declining output in the largest
supplier of crude to the U.S.  “It’s not dead in the water, but it’s going to be very
complicated,” Duncan Wood, a professor of international
relations at the Autonomous Institute of Technology of  Mexico ,
said in a phone interview from Mexico City. “The prospects of
opening up the sector just became a lot less optimistic. It will
take some very skillful negotiation.”  Pena Nieto has said he may propose a plan to allow private
companies to own stakes in oilfields through joint ventures with
state-owned  Petroleos Mexicanos , or Pemex. That will require
changes to at least one article of the constitution drawn up in
1938 when the PRI government of  Lazaro Cardenas  seized  oil
fields  belonging to British and U.S. companies.  Convinced of Success  “I’m convinced we’ll achieve an accord with other
political forces” on a Pemex bill, Pena Nieto said in a meeting
with reporters yesterday. At a later time “we’ll decide if
eventually the company will float shares on the stock
exchange,” he said.  Pena Nieto has said he may present the constitutional
changes after the new congress begins work on Sept. 1 and before
he takes office on Dec. 1. In a November interview, he said
overhauling Pemex in the mold of  Brazil ’s Petroleo Brasileiro SA
would be the “signature” issue of his presidency.  The PRI-led coalition will get at most 249 out of 500 seats
in the lower house and 61 out of 128 seats in the Senate,
according to projections by polling company Consulta Mitofsky.
The  National Action Party , or PAN, of outgoing President  Felipe Calderon  will get at most 135, while the Democratic Revolution
Party, which opposes any attempt to weaken Pemex’s monopoly, may
garner 148, according to Mitofsky. The electoral institute says
final results may not be available until this weekend.  PAN Support  PAN Senator Ruben Camarillo said yesterday that his party
favors opening the  energy industry  and will support reforms that
benefit the country, regardless of who proposes them.  The party will call for greater transparency and
accountability in exchange for its support, Camarillo, a member
of the Senate energy commission who is poised to win a seat in
the lower house, said in a phone interview.  A survey of 1,000 registered voters taken June 22-24 by
Mexico City-based Mitofsky had forecast that the PRI-Green Party
coalition would win at least 274 seats in the lower house. The
poll had a 3.1 percentage point margin of error.  “We’re going to pass those reforms the country needs,”
said Javier Lozano, former labor minister and a senator-elect
with  PAN . “We’re going to be a truly responsible opposition,”
he said in an interview with Milenio TV yesterday.  Pena Nieto may have gone some way to building consensus for
the constitutional changes within his party by consulting with
Pemex’s powerful oil workers’ union and other labor groups that
have traditionally supported the PRI.  Union Support  “Private investment in the sector is not new, and more
investment means more jobs,” Pemex labor union leader and PRI
Senator Carlos Romero Deschamps said in a June 19 interview.  Gerardo Sanchez, a congressman who heads the farmers’
confederation within the PRI, the nation’s largest agricultural
workers’ organization, said in an interview last month that he
also agrees with opening Pemex to greater private participation.  “Support from PRI factions is fundamental to pass
reform,”  Jorge Chabat , a political science professor at the
Center for  Economic Research  and Teaching said in a phone
interview from Mexico City. “There may be some PRI members left
against the idea of opening the sector to foreign investment,
but at the end of the day they will fall into line.”  Convincing every member of the PRI and PAN won’t be easy.
Pemex and Mexican nationalism are inextricably tied. From school
murals to speeches in Congress, Pemex has been promoted as a
symbol of sovereignty and national pride in Mexico for decades.  Declining Output  That patriotism hasn’t translated into investment. Pemex’s
production declined to 2.55 million barrels a day last year from
3.38 million in 2004, according to the Energy Ministry.  Pemex said today it failed to find crude in its 20th
deepwater well, keeping the commercial success rate for
exploration in waters deeper than 500 feet at zero.  Pena Nieto has said Mexico needs to revive its flagging oil
industry and expand trade with the U.S. to bolster economic
growth that has  averaged 1.8 percent  since Calderon took office,
compared with 4.1 percent in Brazil. He’s also proposed boosting
the economy by making it easier for companies to hire and fire
workers, encouraging more businesses to enter the formal economy
and increasing tax collection.  Mexico’s peso rose 0.3 percent to 13.2947 per  U.S. dollar 
at 10:19 Mexico City time. The benchmark IPC stock index rose 1
percent to a record. The gauge has gained 9.3 percent this year,
compared with a 4.5 percent gain in the MSCI  Emerging Markets 
Index.  Economic Growth  Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg forecast Mexico’s gross
domestic product will expand 3.7 percent in 2012, outpacing
growth in Brazil for a second straight year. Mexican peso bonds
have returned 12.9 percent in dollar terms this year, compared
with a gain of 3.7 percent for local-currency emerging-market
debt, according to Bank of America Corp.  Pemex has been Mexico’s biggest seller of debt abroad this
year, raising $5.8 billion, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg, as it takes advantage of record-low overseas
financing costs to fund investment and try to reverse output
declines. Yields on Pemex’s $2.96 billion of notes due in 2021
touched a record low 3.59 percent yesterday.  ‘Golden Goose’  Under PRI President  Ernesto Zedillo , Pemex tried to sell
some assets in 1995, only to pare back the plan amid opposition
from members of his own party. President Vicente Fox replaced
Pemex’s politician-staffed board in 2001 with businessmen,
including billionaire  Carlos Slim . The board was dismantled two
months later amid accusations by lawmakers that it was
unconstitutional.  More recently, PRI lawmakers defeated an attempt by
outgoing President Felipe Calderon to open the nation’s refining
and distribution projects to outside partners. Calderon, whose
single six-year term ends on Dec. 1, was able to win approval
for private companies to operate fields under incentive-based
contracts.  The PRI’s obstruction of Calderon’s changes may weigh
against their own efforts to reach a consensus now, Arturo
Franco, a resident fellow at Harvard University’s Center for
International Development in Cambridge,  Massachusetts , said in a
phone interview.  Pemex is “the golden goose of Mexico,” Franco said.
“It’s almost become a legend that someone will be able to pass
energy reform. I really don’t know if it will be a reality.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Martin in Mexico City at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net ;
Carlos Manuel Rodriguez in Mexico City at 
 carlosmr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net ;
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  