-- Pena Nieto Bets on Pablo Escobar Nemesis to Win Drug War
-- B y   E r i c   S a b o
-- 2012-07-03T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/pena-nieto-bets-on-pablo-escobar-nemesis-to-win-mexico-drug-war.html
Incoming Mexican President Enrique Pena Nieto will inherit a drug war that has cost more than
47,000 lives since 2006. He’s betting that the Colombian general
who helped take down kingpin  Pablo Escobar  will help him win.  Pena Nieto, after winning election July 1, said Mexicans
want immediate results after frustration over the six-year death
toll undermined support for President  Felipe Calderon . He tapped
General Oscar Naranjo, the former head of  Colombia ’s national
police, as his security adviser last month and aides say the new
president will seek greater intelligence sharing with the U.S.
to help break the cartels.  The 45-year-old Pena Nieto must balance public demands for
a less-bloody conflict with suspicions that his  Institutional
Revolutionary Party , or PRI, was more tolerant of drug cartels
during a 71-year reign that ended in 2000. Pena Nieto, who
pledged during the campaign to scale back the military’s role in
fighting organized crime in favor of the police, said yesterday
that there would be no truce with the cartels.  “Already the government is taking flak for letting less
violent and ostentatious criminal groups off the hook,” said
Vanda Felbab-Brown, who studies drug war conflicts for the
 Brookings Institution  in  Washington . “It will be an even more
sensitive issue for Pena Nieto because he has all the PRI
baggage of negotiated deals.”  Drug-related violence shaves almost 1.2 percentage points
annually off Mexico’s gross domestic product and the country
could double its foreign investment, which reached $19.4 billion
in 2011, if the cartels were brought under control, said Manuel
Suarez-Mier, an economist at American University who helped
Mexico negotiate the  North American Free Trade Agreement .  Drug War ‘Disaster’  “It’s a disaster,” said Suarez-Mier, who represented
Mexico’s attorney general when the  Merida Initiative , a three-
year, $1.6 billion anti-narcotics program funded by the U.S.,
was signed in 2008. “When you decapitate a cartel, they tend to
fracture and now we have more cartels that are more violent.”  A week rarely goes by without reports of dismembered
corpses appearing in public as  Mexico ’s drug gangs battle for
territory and routes into the U.S., their biggest market. Three
police officers died in a firefight at Mexico City’s
international airport on June 25 after they tried to detain
suspected traffickers. The mutilated bodies of 14 people were
found in bags in an abandoned truck in northern Veracruz state
last month, newspaper Milenio reported.  Lack of Security  Pena Nieto has vowed to double the number of police to
fight the drug war and is counting on Naranjo’s experience to
improve security.  “General Naranjo will give a seal of approval, in Mexico
and abroad, to our security policies,” Pena Nieto’s campaign
said in a statement accompanying his appointment last month.  Naranjo, 55, helped engineer the U.S.-backed crackdown that
led to the demise of the Medellin cocaine cartel and its
billionaire leader Escobar in 1993, and Pena Nieto credited him
for reducing the homicide rate in Colombia.  The Colombian city of Medellin, which was for years the
murder capital of  Latin America , has seen homicide rates drop to
1,649 in 2011 from 6,349 in 1991, according to government data.
The South American country has received more than $7 billion in
U.S. anti-narcotics and counter-insurgency aid since 2000, much
of it administered by Naranjo when he was national police chief
from 2007 to 2012.  Jorge Montano, the PRI’s senior foreign policy coordinator,
said in April that the new administration wants to “reset the
relationship with the U.S. on the war on drugs,” adding that he
would like to see closer cooperation and more information-
sharing.  ‘Blind Eye’  The revival of Pena Nieto’s PRI party has left some in
Washington on guard. Representative James Sensenbrenner, a
Wisconsin Republican who sits on the House Judiciary Committee,
said last month at a hearing that he’s concerned Pena Nieto may
bring a return to the days when the PRI “minimized violence by
turning a blind eye” to drug traffickers.  U.S. federal prosecutors in May filed civil charges
against Tomas Yarrington, a former PRI governor in the border
state of Tamaulipas who allegedly used millions of dollars in
bribes from cartels to invest in Texas real estate. The PRI
suspended him and Pena Nieto has said justice must take its
course in the case.  “The stakes are high for Mexico,”  Victoria Nuland , a U.S.
State Department spokeswoman, told reporters in Washington
yesterday. “The stakes are high for us. And we think we will be
able to have good cooperation.”  ‘No Truce’  Fresh off his election win, Pena Neito rejected concerns
the PRI will loosen the reins on the nation’s drug war.  “The Mexican people have given our party a second
opportunity. We will honor it with results,” Pena Nieto said
after claiming victory. “In facing organized crime, there will
be no pact or truce.”  While Pena Nieto has vowed to eventually return troops to
their barracks, Mexico may still need them to battle criminals
such as  Los Zetas , a group of former military officers who have
expanded into kidnapping and other illicit businesses, said
David Shirk, director of the Trans-Border Institute at the
University of  San Diego .  “The initial approach will be a kind of detente with
organized crime groups,” Shirk said in a phone interview. “But
you can’t get rid of guys like Los Zetas without some serious
commitment of force.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Sabo in Washington at 
 esabo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  