-- Pennsylvania Joins States Yanking Safety Net for Disabled
-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 2012-07-03T15:22:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/pennsylvania-joins-states-removing-safety-net-for-the-disabled.html
Pennsylvania  will end $200 monthly
general-assistance payments to residents who are poor, disabled
and unemployable, joining eight states that have eliminated or
curbed such aid since last year.  About 61,000 Pennsylvanians will no longer get those checks
as of Aug. 1 under the budget that passed the Republican-led
Legislature last week. The cut will save $150 million, according
to Carey Miller, a Welfare Department spokeswoman. The agency
oversees the program that mainly benefits childless adults.  Kansas , also dominated by Republicans, joined  Illinois  in
ending general assistance last year, said Liz Schott, a senior
fellow at the  Center on Budget and Policy Priorities , a
nonprofit organization in  Washington . Maine imposed new curbs on
the payments this year, she said. The benefits serve people who
don’t receive “a lot of legislative support” while programs
for the young and old do, she said.  “Because this is all state dollars, and not a very popular
population, it tends to be one of the places where states look
to make cuts,” Schott said yesterday by telephone. “States are
looking to save money.”  Rose Slater, 61, said she can’t think about what she will
do in August, when the $200 checks she’s received from general
assistance will end. She doesn’t want to be overwhelmed because
she’s already dealing with a crisis: Her $550 rent payment for
July is due today, and she’s $150 short, Slater said by
telephone from her apartment in the Mount Airy section of
Philadelphia.  What to Sell  Slater started receiving general assistance in March, when
her $800 a month in  unemployment benefits  expired. She said she
has struggled to find employment as a social worker over the
past two years and that she hopes her landlord will let her pay
the rent by the end of the week without penalties.  “I’m going to go through my house and see what I could
sell,” said Slater, who suffers from gout and vision problems.
“You have to have faith. If I didn’t, I’ll fall apart.”  The end of cash assistance in Illinois cut off aid to
10,000 Chicagoans, according to a report Schott wrote with Clare
Cho last year for the center, which focuses on policies that
affect low- and moderate-income Americans. Tightened eligibility
standards in the state of Washington affected 19,000 low-income
residents in 2011. States have been eliminating or curbing their
general-assistance programs for decades, according to Schott.  Ending Assistance  From 1989 to 1998, states including  Montana ,  South Carolina 
and  Wyoming  dropped their programs, and 12 others cut off aid
for people considered employable, according to the report.
 Missouri ,  Oregon , Arizona,  Wisconsin  and  Idaho  had ended their
programs by 2010. Assistance payments are continuing in 29
states, Schott said.  Yet in almost each program that has survived, benefit
levels have been reduced, even as the longest recession since
the Depression and its aftermath increased the need for help,
according to the report.  Childless adults in Pennsylvania who are disabled or are
victims of domestic violence, and who have less than $250,
qualify for aid under the state program set to end next month,
said Michael Froehlich, a lawyer with  Community Legal Services
of Philadelphia , a nonprofit group that counsels low-income
residents in the state’s largest city by population.  ‘Temporary Bridge’  For some aid recipients, the checks provide “a temporary
bridge to stability” as they await decisions on applications
for benefits from the U.S. Social Security Administration under
disability programs, Froehlich said by telephone. Processing the
paperwork by the agency takes an average of 18 months, he said.  While aid recipients may still receive health benefits and
food subsidies through federally funded programs, there’s no
replacement for cash assistance that helped many of his clients
pay their rent, Froehlich said.  “You take away that program, and there’s nowhere else for
folks to turn,” he said. “It will inevitably lead to increased
homelessness, and more people will be on the streets.”  Pennsylvania’s measure was part of the $27.7 billion budget
for the year that began July 1.  “Pennsylvania has its hands tied” because of federal
mandates, Miller, the Welfare Department spokeswoman, said by
telephone. “We were forced to look at state-only funded
programs and this was one instance we were forced to
eliminate.”  The state is encouraging recipients facing a cutoff to ask
their county welfare offices to help them find other benefits,
Miller said. Froehlich, however, said there are no options since
the program targeted people who don’t qualify for federal help,
such as Temporary Assistance for  Needy Families .  “People don’t know what they’re going to do Aug. 1,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  