-- Poland Will Probably Refrain From Raising Rates on Crisis
-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l
-- 2012-07-04T08:49:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/poland-will-probably-refrain-from-raising-rates-on-crisis.html
Poland ’s central bank, the only one
in the European Union to raise  borrowing costs  this year, will
probably refrain from increasing its benchmark- interest rate 
today as the euro-area debt crisis weighs on economic growth.  The Narodowy Bank Polski will keep the rate at 4.75
percent, according to all 34 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News. The bank will announce its decision after noon and hold a
news conference at 4 p.m. in Warsaw.  Policy makers raised borrowing costs in May and warned last
month of another increase if prospects dim for  inflation  slowing
to their 2.5 percent target and the debt crisis fails to damp
growth. Consumer prices are rising at the third-fastest pace in
the 27-nation EU, even as the European Commission sees Poland’s
expansion easing to 2.7 percent this year, down from 4.3 percent
in 2011.  Surging food costs will probably boost Polish inflation to
more than 4 percent during the summer, spurring “another wave
of hawkish comments by policy makers pushing for another
quarter-point hike,” Michal Dybula, an emerging market
strategist at BNP Paribas in Warsaw, said by phone on June 27.
“The economic slowdown and external environment will persuade
them, though, to put the rate on hold this month.”  The zloty, which has increased 6.3 percent against the euro
this year, rose to 4.2018 per euro at 10:07 a.m. Warsaw time,
down 0.1 percent on the day.  Possible Revision  While Polish price growth eased to a 15-month low of 3.6
percent in May, the central bank may revise up its forecast to
“3 percent to 3.5 percent next year, from 2.9 percent in the
previous projection,” Radoslaw Bodys, chief economist at PKO
Bank Polski in Warsaw, said in a note on June 29. Policy makers
will review the prediction at the meeting and publish it at the
end of the week, according to the bank’s press office.  The Czech central bank cut its main interest rate to a
record low of 0.5 percent last week. The  European Central Bank 
kept its benchmark interest rate at 1 percent last month,
matching a record low, with President  Mario Draghi  saying “a
few” officials had opted for a cut. The Frankfurt-based ECB
will hold its next assessment tomorrow.  Poland’s central bank, which last year raised rates by a
total of 1 percentage point and then kept them at the highest
level since 2009 for 10 months, has reiterated that  monetary
policy  is based on a direct inflation target. That means policy
makers claim inflation control as their prime responsibility.
Price growth has exceeded 3.5 percent, the upper end of the
bank’s tolerance limit, since January 2010.  ‘Soft Landing’  Poland’s 3.5 percent expansion in the first quarter from a
year earlier showed that the economy was in a “balanced soft-
landing,” strengthening the bank’s opinion that the rate rise
in May took place “in the right moment and was of the right
scale,” Governor Mare Belka told reporters last month. Central
banker  Adam Glapinski  said June 11 that “a moderate economic
slowdown and high inflation mean that Polish policy makers
mustn’t mindlessly follow other central banks.”  Belka and Glapinski were among eight board members who
voted to raise rates in May. Two policy makers voted against it,
according to a breakdown of the vote published last week.  Since the previous rate meeting, domestic and euro-region
data have suggested that Poland’s slowing economy is at risk of
worsening.  Germany , which buys a quarter of Polish exports, saw
its industrial output shrink 2.2 percent in April, while its
business climate index dropped to the lowest since March 2010.  Wages, Jobs  Polish job growth at companies with more than nine workers
held at a two-year low in May, wages increased less than
forecast and retail-sales growth rose at half the pace from a
year earlier. May price growth excluding food and energy slowed
to a 13-month low of 2.3 percent, while households’ inflation
expectations declined in June to 3.7 percent, the lowest in 18
months.  “The whole series of statistics from the real economy is
giving bankers enough room to hold off raising rates,” Wojciech
Matysiak, an economist at Bank Pekao in Warsaw, said by phone on
June 29. “We’re getting closer to a situation where the weak
economy is trimming consumer-price growth, which is natural but
wasn’t happening for quite a while.”  Economic growth will slow to 2.5 percent in the second half
of 2012 from a year earlier, compared with 2.9 percent in the
first six months, according to the median estimate of 27
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The EU’s largest eastern
member expanded 4.3 percent in 2011 and will grow 2.7 percent
this year, according to the European Commission.  Tough Rebound  “With more headwinds from the euro-zone crisis likely to
come, as well as growing evidence of a sharp deceleration in the
Polish construction sector, it is difficult to expect a rebound
of the economy any time soon,” said Dybula of BNP Paribas.  Dybula withdrew his rate increase forecast on June 28,
joining a group of 21 economists predicting that borrowing costs
will be left unchanged this year, according to a Bloomberg News
survey. Two economists expect the rate to be raised to 5 percent
in the third quarter.  “As we await June and July inflation, we are sticking to
our forecast for a quarter-point rate increase in September,”
Jaroslaw Janecki, chief economist at the Warsaw unit of  Societe
Generale , said by phone on June 28.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  