-- Qatar Plans Harrods Hotels in Malaysia, New York, Paris
-- B y   L i a u   Y - S i n g
-- 2012-07-03T10:48:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/qatar-plans-harrods-hotels-in-malaysia-new-york-paris.html
Qatar Holding LLC, the investment arm
of the country’s sovereign-wealth fund, plans to open Harrods
hotels in cities including London,  New York  and Paris to build
the British luxury retailer it bought two years ago into a
global brand.  “We have already decided to build a Harrods Hotel in
London, one in  Kuala Lumpur  and one in Sardinia, Italy,” Qatar
Holding Vice Chairman Hussain Ali Al-Abdulla told reporters in
the Malaysian capital today. “We are looking to invest more in
Malaysia because we think the economy is growing.”  The Doha-based fund signed an agreement with Malaysian
partners today to build a hotel in Kuala Lumpur’s Bukit Bintang
shopping district, Hussain said. About 2 billion ringgit ($634
million) will be spent on the development and construction will
start in a year. It didn’t provide specifics about plans for
London or Italy.  Qatar Holding paid 1.5 billion pounds ($2.3 billion) for
Harrods in 2010, including its landmark store in London’s
Knightsbridge district, which opened in 1849 and counted  Sigmund Freud  and  Oscar Wilde  among its customers.  The fund will establish a hotel-management company to seek
out projects around the world. It prefers to build on sites
already owned by Qatar Holding or its affiliates, such as
London’s Chelsea Barracks site or Sardinia’s Costa Smeralda,
according to a joint statement by Qatar Holdings and Harrods
Ltd.  Global Enterprise  “Qatar Holding ultimately intends to grow Harrods into a
global enterprise that defines the luxury retailer and leisure
sectors,” it said.  In April, the fund agreed to buy luxury hotel owner
Smeralda Holding from Colony Capital LLC. The purchase included
four hotels in Costa Smeralda on the Italian island of Sardinia,
as well as a golf course, marina and undeveloped land. Starwood
Hotels & Resorts Worldwide Inc. will continue to run the hotels.  Qatari Diar Real Estate Investment Co., a Qatari Investment
unit, purchased the  Chelsea Barracks  in west London in January
2008 in a joint venture with  Christian Candy ’s CPC Group Ltd. A
plan to develop the former military site into homes became mired
in a dispute over the design and legal clash that ended when
Qatari Diar bought out CPC’s share of the project in 2010.  The planned Harrods hotel in Kuala Lumpur will have about
300 rooms and will be the group’s first in Asia, Al-Abdulla
said. The company also plans to open in  China .  Qatar Holding is part of the Qatar Investment Authority,
which is the largest shareholder in the  J Sainsbury Plc (SBRY)  grocery
chain in the U.K. Qatari Diar also owns most of the former Royal
Dutch Shell Plc headquarters in  London  and in August it
purchased the athlete’s village at the London 2012 Olympic site
for 557 million pounds in a joint venture with Delancey Estates
Plc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liau Y-Sing in Kuala Lumpur at 
 yliau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Barry Porter at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net  