-- Qihoo Rebounds as Easing Bets Spur ADR Rally: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-07-03T18:08:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/qihoo-rebounds-as-easing-bets-spur-adr-rally-china-overnight.html
Chinese equities  traded in the U.S.
surged on speculation policy makers will implement more measures
to stem a slowdown in  Asia ’s biggest economy. Qihoo 360
Technology Co. climbed from a five-month low.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese companies in  New York  added 1.3 percent to 91.76
yesterday. Qihoo jumped 5.1 percent after the security software
developer denied a report that user traffic on its website is
lower than reported.  LDK Solar Co. (LDK)  led gains in solar makers as
the government quadrupled an installation goal for sun-derived
energy projects. China Southern Airlines Co. rose to a seven-
week high after the  Shanghai  Securities News said regulators cut
jet fuel prices.  Reducing lenders’ reserve requirements may become the top
option for the central bank to boost liquidity in the banking
system, the state-owned China Securities Journal said in a
front-page commentary yesterday. Policy makers cut the benchmark
 interest rates  on June 7 for the first time since 2008 to spur
growth as the economy expanded at the slowest pace in 11
quarters in the first three months this year. The China-US Index
sank to an eight-month low during the second quarter.  “We’ll certainly see additional policy, a combination of
monetary and fiscal stimulus from China, as the growth rate
declines,”  Kevin Carter , chief executive officer of Baochuan
Capital Management LLC in Walnut Creek,  California , said
yesterday by phone. “Chinese stocks have already priced in a
slowdown and investors, by and large, are underexposed.”  China ETF Jumps  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., increased 1.6 percent to a
two-week high of $34.20. The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  of
mainland stocks added 0.1 percent to 2,229.19. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index of U.S. shares rose 0.6 percent to a two-month
high of 1,374.02 after data showed factory orders topped
estimates.  Chinese central bank may cut reserve-requirement ratio for
banks three more times in 2012, each by 0.5 percentage point,
the Shanghai Securities News reported on its website, citing a
report by the China Banking Association released yesterday.  Qihoo (QIHU) , a Beijing-based technology company which also
develops computer desktop software, increased 5.1 percent to
$16.82, the biggest jump in two weeks.  The company’s American depositary receipts tumbled 7.5
percent on July 2 after Anonymous Analytics said in a report
Qihoo had been “lying” to investors about its traffic volume,
citing data from Reston, Virgina-based  ComScore Inc. (SCOR)   ‘Inaccurate and Misleading’  Qihoo said the data quoted in Analytics’ report is
“inaccurate and misleading” and it will continue to work with
ComScore to enhance data tracking and “eventually to provide
accurate and reliable third-party traffic data to investors and
public in the near future,” according to a statement
distributed by PRNewswire statement yesterday.  “We haven’t officially released the data as some technical
issues remain to be solved for applying ComScore’s system in
 China ” including compatibility and security, Alex Xu, Qihoo’s
chief financial officer said in a phone interview from Beijing
yesterday.  LDK, the world’s second-largest maker of wafers, surged 7
percent to a one-week high of $1.99. Yingli Green Energy Holding
Co., the sixth-largest silicon-based solar module producer,
climbed 6.1 percent to $2.96. Suntech Power Holdings Co., the
world’s largest solar-panel maker based in Wuxi in Jiangsu
province, advanced 4.2 percent to $1.99.  Installation Target  China, the biggest supplier of solar power panels,
quadrupled a domestic installation goal for sun-derived energy
projects to 21 gigawatts by 2015 to help absorb excess supply of
panels and to support prices. Shi Lishan, deputy director of the
administration’s renewable energy division, said the plan will
be issued “soon” in a phone interview July 2.  “The solar sector will benefit should China increase its
installation capacity, and the news seemed to boost the
stocks,” Aaron Chew, a New York-based analyst at the Maxim
Group LLC, said by phone yesterday.  ADRs of Guangzhou-based China Southern, Asia’s largest
airline by fleet size, increased 4 percent to $22.79, the
highest level since May 11. China Eastern Airlines Corp., the
second-biggest domestic carrier based in Shanghai, climbed 1.1
percent to a three-week high of $16.12.  China cut jet fuel prices by 741  yuan  ($117) to 6,768 yuan
a ton in July, the Shanghai Securities News said yesterday,
citing a decision from the National Development and Reform
Commission, the top planning agency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  