-- Yields Hit Record Lows as Rand Rallies on Stimulus Speculation
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2012-07-03T14:57:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/rand-gains-for-4th-day-on-expectation-stimulus-to-boost-exports.html
The rand rose to a seven-week high
and yields fell to record lows on speculation central banks will
take steps to spur growth, boosting demand for raw materials
that account for almost half of  South Africa ’s exports.  South Africa’s currency advanced as much as 1.2 percent to
8.0619 per dollar, the strongest level since May 11. It traded
0.8 percent stronger at 8.0885 as of 4:21 p.m. in Johannesburg,
extending its appreciation in the past four days to 4.4 percent.
Yields on the nation’s 6.75 percent bonds due 2021 dropped 10
basis points to 7.15 percent, the lowest on a closing basis on
record, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The  European Central Bank  is forecast by economists to cut
interest rates this week to help curb the debt crisis, while a
state-owned newspaper in  China  said the time is ripe for a
reduction in banks’ reserve-requirement ratios. Declining
employment figures in the U.S. this week may prompt the  Federal
Reserve  to initiate fresh stimulus, BNP Paribas SA said.  “Sentiment seems to have improved globally, and there is a
general uptake of risk,” Ion de Vleeschauwer, chief dealer at
Johannesburg-based Bidvest Bank Ltd., the nation’s biggest chain
of money-changers, said by phone. “We’ve seen a lot of demand
from offshore players for the rand.”  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of raw materials climbed
to the highest level in more than a month as the prices of
metals including copper, nickel and platinum rose. Metals and
other commodities account for 45 percent of South Africa’s
exports, according to government data.  The nation’s benchmark stock  index  advanced, led by
commodity exporters including Anglo American Plc and BHP
Billiton Ltd.  Risk Appetite  “The prospect of further monetary easing this week has
whetted investors’ appetite for risk assets,” Nomvuyo Guma, a
currency strategist at Standard Bank Group Ltd. in Johannesburg,
wrote in e-mailed comments. “We expect the rand to maintain its
gains” ahead of policy meetings this week, she added.  The rand was receiving a boost from South African companies
repatriating foreign earnings after the June 30 fiscal year-end,
De Vleeschauwer said. The currency may struggle to breach 8 per
dollar, a level where many traders have clustered orders to buy
dollars, he added.  Foreign investors are buying South African bonds at a
record rate to lock in yields as much as 553 basis points above
U.S. Treasuries for benchmark securities due 2021. Foreign
investors bought 21.9 billion rand ($2.7 billion) of rand bonds
in the past month, the most on record, according to  data  from
JSE Ltd.  Investors are betting yields will fall further as inflation
slows, giving the central bank room to cut  interest rates . The
one-year  breakeven  rate, or yield difference between inflation-
linked fixed-rate bonds, which provides an indication of
traders’ outlook for average inflation, dropped to 5.85 percent
today, from 6.07 percent a month ago.  “The market is discounting more and more the chance of a
rate cut,” De Vleeschauwer said. “That’s what is driving the
 bond market , and foreigners are very happy to buy our bonds.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  