-- Treasuries Snap Gain on Speculation ECB to Cut Rate
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-07-03T03:37:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/treasuries-snap-gain-on-speculation-ecb-to-cut-rate.html
Treasuries snapped a gain from
yesterday on speculation the  European Central Bank  will cut
borrowing costs this week to stimulate growth, reducing demand
for the relative safety of U.S. securities.  ECB officials will lower their  main interest rate  by a
quarter percentage point to a record 0.75 percent on July 5, a
Bloomberg News survey of economists shows. European Union
leaders, who announced plans last week to stem the region’s debt
crisis by amending bailout rules and moving toward a banking
union, are now looking to the central bank to help. Treasury
yields that are about 15 basis points from the record low are
poised to rise, Bank of America Merrill Lynch said in a report.  “The ECB may cut rates, and that should be helpful for the
world economy,” said Kazuaki Oh’e, a debt salesman in  Tokyo  at
CIBC World Markets  Japan  Inc., a unit of Canada’s fifth-largest
lender. “It creates a downside risk for Treasuries. The current
level for Treasuries isn’t too attractive.”  Benchmark 10-year notes  yielded  1.59 percent as of 12:03
p.m. in Tokyo, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader data. The
record low yield was 1.44 percent set June 1. The 1.75 percent
note due in May 2022 changed hands at 101 13/32.  Japan’s 10-year rate was little changed at 0.83 percent.
Investors  earn  an extra 76 basis points for buying 10-year notes
in the U.S. instead of in Japan, versus 2.04 percentage points a
year ago. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Indicating Contraction  Treasuries rose yesterday after the  Institute for Supply
Management ’s factory  index  slid to 49.7 for June from 53.5 in
May. Figures less than 50 signal contraction.  U.S. factory orders probably advanced 0.1 percent in May
after a 0.6 percent decline the month before, according to the
median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News before
the Commerce Department reports the figure today.  The U.S. is one of the best places to invest among advanced
economies, said Mohamed El-Erian, co-chief investment officer at
Pacific Investment Management Co., which runs the world’s
biggest bond fund.  “Bond yields will stay” near current levels, El-Erian
said yesterday on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop” with
 Betty Liu , Dominic Chu, Joshua Lipton and Alix Steel. “That
speaks to high-quality companies. It speaks to the Treasury
market,” said El-Erian, who is based in  Newport Beach ,
 California .  Ten-year yields will rise to 1.9 percent by year-end,
according to Bank of America in a report yesterday by David Woo
and  John Shin  in  New York  and Sabine Schels in  London .  Loss Projected  An investor who bought today and sold at the end of 2012
would lose 1.8 percent if the forecast is correct, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The  Federal Reserve  will increase its asset purchases at
its September meeting as it strives to support the  U.S. economy ,
increasing inflation expectations and sending yields higher,
according to Bank of America, one of the 21 primary dealers that
trade directly with the central bank.  The  difference  between yields on 10-year notes and same-
maturity Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of
trader expectations for consumer prices over the life of the
debt, was 2.08 percentage points. The average over the past
decade is 2.15 percentage points.  The central bank on June 20 expanded so-called Operation
Twist, its program to replace $400 billion of short-term
Treasuries in its portfolio with longer-term debt to lengthen
the average maturity of its holdings, by $267 billion and
extended it until year-end.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net  