-- Treasuries Drop as Rise in Factory Orders Hits Haven Bets
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-07-03T18:17:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/treasuries-drop-as-rise-in-factory-orders-hits-haven-bets.html
Treasuries declined as a government
report showed orders placed with U.S. factories rose in May for
the first time in three months, reducing concern the economic
recovery is faltering.  Benchmark 10-year notes pared gains posted yesterday after
another report showed manufacturing expectedly contracted. The
 securities  have traded in a yield range of 1.57 percent to 1.67
percent for 19 of the past 20 trading sessions, according to
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. A U.S. government report this
week is forecast to show employers added fewer than 100,000
workers for a third month in June.  “With the risk-on trade, we could see some pressure,”
said Justin Lederer, an interest-rate strategist in New York at
Cantor Fitzgerald LP, one of 21 primary dealers that trade with
the Federal Reserve. “It’s a range-bound session ahead of
tomorrow’s holiday and with the  European Central Bank  and
payrolls later in the week.”  The 10-year yield rose four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 1.63 percent at 2 p.m. in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 1.75 percent note
due in May 2022 declined 3/8, or 94 cents per $1,000 face
amount, to 101 3/32. The yield fell six basis points yesterday.
It dropped to a record 1.4387 percent on June 1.  Trading of Treasuries  closed  at 2 p.m. and will stay shut
worldwide tomorrow in observance of the Fourth of July holiday
in the U.S., according to the Securities Industry and Financial
Markets Association.  Term Premium  Treasuries yields are at levels making them near the most
 overpriced ever , according to a model created by  Federal Reserve 
economists know as the term premium. The gauge was negative 0.89
today after falling to a record negative 0.94 on June 1. A
negative reading indicates investors are willing to accept
yields below what is considered fair value.  Orders placed with U.S. factories rose in May for the first
time in three months, easing concern that manufacturing is
faltering.  The 0.7 percent increase in  factory orders  followed a
revised 0.7 percent drop in the prior month, the Commerce
Department said today in  Washington . The median forecast of
economists in a Bloomberg News survey called for a rise to 0.1
percent.  Treasuries declined as speculation the ECB will cut
borrowing costs this week to stimulate growth reduced demand for
the relative safety of U.S. government securities. ECB officials
will lower their  main interest rate  by a quarter percentage
point to a record 0.75 percent on July 5, a Bloomberg News
survey of economists shows.  Risk-On ‘Catalyst’  European Union  leaders, who announced plans last week to
stem the debt crisis by amending bailout rules and moving toward
a banking union, are now looking to the central bank to help.  “The ECB cutting would be a little bit of a catalyst for a
risk-on” trade, said Ira Jersey, an  interest-rate  strategist at
Credit Suisse Group AG in New York, a primary dealer. “You’re
probably talking about the 10-year backing up five, six basis
points.”  The U.S. added 90,000 workers last month and the jobless
rate held at 8.2 percent, separate Bloomberg surveys showed
before the Labor Department data due on July 6.  Treasuries gained yesterday after the  Institute for Supply
Management  said its factory  index  slid to 49.7 for June from
53.5 in May. Readings less than 50 signal contraction.  BofA Forecast  Treasury yields are poised to increase, Bank of America
Corp. said in a report.  Ten-year yields will rise to 1.9 percent by year-end,
according to the report yesterday by David Woo and  John Shin  in
New York and Sabine Schels in  London .  An investor who bought today and sold at the end of 2012
would lose 1.8 percent if the forecast is correct, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Fed will increase its asset purchases at its September
meeting as it strives to support the  U.S. economy , increasing
inflation expectations and sending bond yields higher, according
to Bank of America, one of the 21 primary dealers that trade
directly with the central bank.  The  difference  between yields on 10-year notes and similar-
maturity Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of
expectations for consumer prices over the life of the debt, was
2.10 percentage points. The average over the past decade is 2.15
percentage points.  The central bank on June 20 expanded so-called Operation
Twist, its program to replace $400 billion of short-term
Treasuries in its portfolio with longer-term debt to lengthen
the average maturity of its holdings, by $267 billion and
extended it until year-end.  ‘ECB’s Court’  “The ball’s in the ECB’s court,” said  Kevin Flanagan , a
Purchase, New York-based fixed-income strategist for Morgan
Stanley Smith Barney, citing the Fed’s action. “The expectation
at least from Morgan Stanley is you’ll get a rate cut on the
fifth.”  Corporate bonds are attractive, said Hans Goetti,
Singapore-based chief investment officer for  Asia  at Finaport
Investment Intelligence, which manages the equivalent of $1.47
billion. Goetti said he bought the debt for his clients in late
2011 and early this year and plans to hold the securities.  “The corporate sector is in relatively good shape,”
Goetti said. “It is the only bright spot in the economy.”  Treasuries have returned 2.1 percent this year, versus 5.8
percent for corporate bonds and 8.1 percent for the global-bond
index, the Bank of America figures show.  The  two-year yield  may extend declines after yesterday
breaking below an uptrend that has been in place since June,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The yield rose one basis point to 0.30 percent. Its 100-day
moving average is 0.2938 percent. The rate may fall to its 50-
day moving average 0.2769 percent, the data show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Kruger in  New York  at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  