-- Renesas to Reduce 5,000 Jobs as Losses Force Restructuring
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 2012-07-03T09:48:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/renesas-electronics-to-cut-more-than-5-000-jobs-through-buyouts.html
Renesas Electronics Corp. (6723) , the
Japanese chipmaker that’s been unprofitable each year since it
was set up in 2010, will  eliminate  more than 5,000 jobs, or 12
percent of its workforce, as it seeks to trim losses.  The job cuts will be achieved through offering incentives
and early retirements and could save the company 43 billion yen
($539 million) annually, Renesas said in a  statement  today. The
Kawasaki, Japan-based chipmaker may also close or sell as many
as 10 of its 18 domestic plants in three years.  Renesas shares  jumped the most in more than two weeks in
 Tokyo  before the announcement on speculation the job cuts may
help trim  losses  exacerbated by falling TV demand and chip
prices.  Japan ’s chipmakers have struggled as  South Korea ’s
Samsung Electronics Co. extended its dominance, with Micron
Technology Inc. of the U.S. agreeing to buy bankrupt Elpida
Memory Inc. yesterday.  “We can’t see the whole picture regarding revival yet,”
 Takeo Miyamoto , an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG, said by phone.
“The impact of the proposals will change depending on how long
the company plans to keep implementing the proposals.”  The company, which had 42,800 workers as of the end of
March, will give the buyout offer to workers from Sept. 18 to
Sept. 26 and those who accept will leave by Oct. 31, according
to the statement.  Shares Rise  Renesas planned to cut as many as 14,000 jobs as part of
the restructuring, the Nikkei reported last month. In 2010 as
well, Renesas had said it was cutting 5,000 workers.  Shares of Renesas jumped 9.8 percent, the biggest gain
since June 14, to 348 yen on the Tokyo Stock Exchange before the
announcement. The stock has dropped 26 percent this year.  Semiconductors of Renesas, whose  customers  include Apple
Inc. and  Sony (6758)  Corp., are used in products from automobiles to
consumer electronics for tasks such as triggering air bags.  “The management’s responsibility is to pick a way for
survival, even if that involves pain or sacrifice,” Renesas
President Yasushi Akao told reporters in Tokyo today. “We
needed to take more drastic measures on our cost structure as
our top line is more unstable than before, in addition to the
opportunity losses from the earthquake last year.”  Emerging Markets  The manufacturer, 91 percent owned by  NEC Corp. (6701) ,  Hitachi
Ltd. (6501)  and Mitsubishi Electric Corp. combined, posted a net loss
of 62.6 billion yen in the year ended March 31. Falling demand
for TVs and a drop in prices for chips used in computers have
eroded profit at Renesas’s unit making System LSI chips, used
for functions ranging from processing images for TV screens to
crunching data.  Sony,  Sharp Corp. (6753)  and Panasonic Corp., Japan’s three
biggest television makers, posted a combined 1.6 trillion yen
loss last fiscal year as TV prices declined. Declining prices
for DRAM chips, the main memory used in PCs, led Japanese
chipmaker Elpida to file for bankruptcy in February.  Renesas is counting on increased demand for
microcontrollers in  emerging markets , inverters and autos to
help it turn profitable. Demand from automakers including Toyota
Motor Corp. is recovering after last year’s earthquake and
tsunami in Japan disrupted car output, Renesas said in May.  The chipmaker has reached a “basic agreement” with its
three major shareholders and is holding negotiations on details
of assistance with them and banks, Akao said June 26. He
declined to comment further on shareholder support today.  As part of restructuring, Renesas sold its high-power
amplifier business to Murata Manufacturing Co. in March and
disposed a plant in northern Japan to Fuji Electric Co. July 1.  Renesas  got  43 percent of its semiconductor sales of 786
billion yen from microcontroller chips last fiscal year, while
system chips accounted for 26 percent, according to the  company .
Domestic auto manufacturers rely on Renesas for 60 percent to 70
percent of chips used in their cars, Kunihiko Onuma, head of
Hitachi’s automotive systems unit, said June 14.  Renesas was formed through the merger of money-losing
chipmakers Renesas Technology Corp., a venture between Hitachi
and  Mitsubishi Electric (6503) , and NEC Electronics Corp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  