-- RIM CEO Says BlackBerry Maker ‘Not in a Death Spiral’
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2012-07-03T20:20:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/rim-ceo-says-blackberry-maker-not-in-a-death-spiral-.html
Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM)  isn’t in a
“death spiral,” Chief Executive Officer Thorsten Heins said
today, defending the BlackBerry maker after it delayed the
release of a new phone, reported a loss and cut almost a third
of its workers.  “The way I would describe it, we’re in the middle of a
transition,” Heins told the Canadian Broadcasting Corp. in a
 radio  interview. “This company is not ignoring the world out
there, nor is it in a death spiral.”  RIM shares tumbled 19 percent on June 29, the day after the
company delayed for a second time its BlackBerry 10 phone, cut
5,000 jobs and posted a quarterly loss that was five times
bigger than projected.  Sales (RIMM)  last quarter plunged 43 percent as
RIM’s share of the global smartphone industry fell by more than
half to 6.4 percent in the first three months of the year,
according to research firm IDC.  RIM has struggled to keep up with  Apple Inc.’s (AAPL)  iPhone and
devices based on Google Inc.’s Android platform, prompting
customers to flee the BlackBerry platform.  The company, based in Waterloo, Ontario, had been waiting
for a release of the first BlackBerry 10 phone in the fall to
decide on its strategic options, betting that the success of the
product would let it avoid a sale, two people familiar with the
situation said last month.  ‘Huge Support’  Heins told the CBC that while the company could have rushed
out the new phone, RIM wants to make sure its new operating
system will last  “for the next 10 years.”  “The next quarters are going to be difficult,” he said.
“But I am positive when we launch BlackBerry 10 there will be
huge support from our carrier partners, our enterprise customers
and we will reemerge, specifically in the U.S. and  Canada , as a
very strong player.”  RIM  fell  1.9 percent to $7.35 at the close in  New York . The
shares have dropped 75 percent in the past year.  RIM is racing to finish the BlackBerry 10 platform even as
it evaluates options that may mean a sale of the company. The
BlackBerry maker in May hired  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  RBC
Capital Markets  to help evaluate options including licensing its
software, or seeking a strategic partner.  Asked by CBC what his reaction would be should the board
suggest splitting up the company as some investors have called
for, Heins said he would have to discuss the matter with them.  “We are looking into all options,” Heins said. “At the
end of the day it’s about creating long-term  shareholder
value .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  