-- Romanian Court Warns Government Bid May Harm Democracy
-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u   a n d   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 2012-07-03T16:10:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/romanian-court-warns-against-cabinet-attempts-to-harm-democracy.html
Romania ’s  Constitutional Court  lodged
a complaint with the  Council of Europe  over what it called
government efforts to disband the court, saying that such a move
would harm democracy and the rule of law.  The nine judges on the Bucharest-based court sent a notice
to the Venice Commission, the advisory body for the 47-nation
Council of  Europe  on constitutional matters, and European
institutions about “virulent attacks” by the government
against it, according to a statement published  on its website
today . The ruling Social Democrats and Liberals denied they
planned to dismiss judges, according to an e-mailed statement
today.  “I am seriously concerned about recent attacks on the
independence of the Constitutional Court of Romania,”  Viviane Reding , the European Union commissioner for justice, said today
on Twitter. “For me, a well-functioning, independent judicial
system is a pre-condition for mutual trust in the European area
of justice.”  Prime Minister Victor Ponta, the third head of government
this year for the Balkan country, is embroiled in a policy
battle with his political rival, President Traian Basescu.  Conflicting Leaders  Among disputes, the two leaders warred over who would
represent Romania at last week’s summit of EU leaders. Ponta
attended the Brussels meeting, even as the Constitutional Court
ruled that Basescu should represent the country on June 27.  The premier said the court ruling “wasn’t a surprise
because the president appointed some people who have always
fulfilled his wishes.” Basescu, meanwhile, accused Ponta of
disregarding the ruling and of hampering his constitutional
responsibilities for the first time in eight years.  “All the recent attacks are the equivalent of a
disbandment of the Constitutional Court in its current
composition,” according to the notice. “This measure is a
serious breach of the Constitution, which stipulates that the
judges are irremovable during their term.”  Ponta’s political ally and head of the  Liberal Party ,  Crin Antonescu , said yesterday that Parliament and the government can
change Constitutional Court judges and that “the court is a
disgrace” under its current structure, according to news
website Hotnews.ro. Antonescu also said on June 26 that his
party may seek to suspend Basescu.  ‘Deeply Concerned’  “I am deeply concerned about any attempt to threaten the
independence of Romania’s democratic institutions,” Mark H.
Gitenstein, the U.S. ambassador to Romania, said in an e-mail
today. “Manipulation or threats to your institutions,
particularly your courts, will not only be of concern to our
government but to the way Romania is viewed by financial
markets.”  Under Romanian law, three of the court judges are appointed
by the president, three by the Senate and three by the Chamber
of Deputies.  Romania’s ruling coalition said in an e-mailed statement
today that it plans to replace the two heads of Parliament, who
are members of the opposition  Liberal Democratic Party , in line
with legislative rules. The head of the Senate, Vasile Blaga,
was already replaced with Antonescu, Mediafax news service said.  Blaga, the head of the Liberal Democrats and still acting
chairman of the upper house of Parliament, told reporters today
that the ruling coalition is attempting “a coup d’état” and
that its plans to replace him and Roberta Anastase, head of the
lower house, violate the constitution. His party will challenge
any such decisions in the Constitutional Court, Blaga said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net ;
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  