-- Rookie Sagan Wins Another Tour Stage as Wiggins Teammate Quits
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2012-07-03T16:30:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/rookie-sagan-wins-another-tour-stage-as-wiggins-teammate-quits.html
Tour de France rookie Peter Sagan won
his second stage in three days after a day marred by at least
three pile-ups. One of race favorite Bradley Wiggins’s teammates
withdrew injured.  Sagan, a 22-year-old Slovak with the Liquigas team, won by
about 20 meters after the 122-mile hilly ride between Orchies
and Boulogne-sur-Mer. He kept the green jersey as leader of the
points classification.  Switzerland ’s  Fabian Cancellara  maintained the race-leading
yellow jersey after finishing near the front of the 92-rider
peloton. He has a seven-second lead over Wiggins and Sylvain
Chavanel, who were in the group along with defending champion
 Cadel Evans .  Wiggins’ Team Sky teammate Kanstantsin Siutsou was the
first of the 198 riders to quit the race after a crash on a
narrow country road with 32 miles left today.  Garmin’s Tyler Farrar and Euskaltel’s Pablo Urtasun needed
medical treatment, although were able to continue. Some riders
carried their bikes along a grass verge to pass the cyclists
receiving medical attention on the tarmac.  Jose Joaquin Rojas of the Movistar team abandoned the race
in another crash on a rural lane with 18 miles left. Garmin’s
Christian Vande Velde also went down.  “It was quite crazy at the end of the stage: flat wheels,
crashes, everything,” Farrar told Eurosport. “We rode
ourselves to death” to bring Vande Velde back to the peloton
after he crashed, Farrar said.  Second Crash  Team Saxo Bank’s Michael Morkov, in his third breakaway in
as many days, and Astana’s Andriy Grivko were the last of the
leading group to be caught by the peloton with a few miles
remaining.  Chavanel of the Omega Pharma-Quick Step team raced into the
lead on the final descent, although it was Sagan who prevailed
by sprinting uphill to the finish line.  A few riders were caught up in another crash on the hill.  The  20-stage race  continues tomorrow with a 133-mile ride
between Abbeville and Rouen. About half of the flat terrain is
along  France ’s northern coastline.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff in  Madrid   at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  