-- Roosevelt Rifle Maker Is Best Contractor: Riskless Return
-- B y   N i c k   T a b o r e k
-- 2012-07-03T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/roosevelt-rifle-maker-is-best-contractor-riskless-return.html
The Norwegian munitions maker whose
rifles were used by  Theodore Roosevelt ’s Rough Riders during the
1898 Spanish-American War is proving the best U.S. government
contractor for investors.  Kongsberg Gruppen ASA (KOG)  in the past five years outperformed
68 federal contractors including  Boeing Co. (BA)  and  Raytheon Co. (RTN) 
that get at least 3.5 percent of revenue from the U.S.
government, according to the BLOOMBERG RISKLESS RETURN RANKING.
Kongsberg had the highest total return and lower volatility than
40 of the vendors in the group.  Kongsberg benefited from investments by its biggest owner,
the Norwegian government, and a diversified range of products,
as reductions in U.S. military spending forced many contractors
to cut jobs. Kongsberg, a partner in the Pentagon’s F-35 jet
program, gets about half of its revenue from commercial sales
and produces specialized products such as a remote weapons-
control system.  “Kongsberg Gruppen is much more niche-oriented compared to
the other players,” said Eirik Ronold Mathisen, an analyst at
DNB Bank ASA in Oslo, the Norwegian capital, who is among 12 of
14 analysts recommending investors buy the stock. “They are
much less influenced by the general, overall spending on
military equipment.”  The Norwegian government’s  50 percent stake  in the company
increases the stock’s price stability, Ronold Mathisen said in a
phone interview.  Kongsberg Shares  Kongsberg, based in the town of the same name, returned 2.8
percent in the five years through June 29, after adjusting for
price swings, better than all but one of the companies in the
BGOV Top 70 Contractors Index.  Goodrich Corp. (GR) , the best
performer in the index, was excluded from the ranking because
its performance reflected a one-time event, a takeover offer by
United Technologies Corp. announced last year that pushed the
stock higher. The transaction is pending.  Kongsberg’s shares produced a 105 percent total return in
the period, compared with a 7.1 percent return by the  Standard &
Poor’s 500 Aerospace & Defense Index. (S5AERO)   The risk-adjusted return, which isn’t annualized, is
calculated by dividing total return by volatility, or the degree
of daily price variation, giving a measure of income per unit of
risk. A higher volatility means the price of an asset can swing
dramatically in a short period, increasing the potential for
unexpected losses.  Niche Provider  Kongsberg plans to increase its defense sales even amid
lower international spending on weapons, Walter Qvam,
Kongsberg’s chief executive officer, said yesterday in a 
telephone interview. The company increased its staff by
about 15 percent in the past 14 months, he said.  “It is important to remember that we are a niche
technology company and not a huge defense supplier,” Qvam, 59,
said. “If you select the right products and have leadership in
those products, then there is a huge growth potential even in a
shrinking market.”  The Norwegian government has sought opportunities for
Kongsberg in the  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  F-35 jet, the Pentagon’s
biggest weapons program.  Norway  has invested $700 million to
develop a Kongsberg missile that may be used on the fighter jet
and plans to spend $300 million more, Bjorn Bjune, vice
president for business development at the company’s defense
systems unit, said last year. The contractor also makes
components for the jet’s rudder.  Norway last month ordered two of the 52 F-35 jets it plans
to buy. The program will be the largest public procurement in
the country’s history, Espen Barth Eide, Norway’s defense
minister, has said.  F-35 Missile  While the U.S. hasn’t committed to buying Kongsberg’s F-35
missile, U.S. Secretary of Defense  Leon Panetta  supports the
integration, the Norwegian government said June 15.  Founded in 1814, Kongsberg’s ties to the U.S. Army date to
the late 1800s, when its Krag Carbine was used by Theodore Roosevelt’s Rough Riders during the Spanish-American War over
Cuba’s independence, according to the Theodore Roosevelt
Association’s website. Roosevelt himself didn’t use a Krag,
going to war instead with a Winchester Model 95, according to
the website.  The war in Iraq led to a boom in demand for Kongsberg
products. The company was selected to supply an electronic
system that allowed troops to fire roof-mounted weapons from
inside combat vehicles, providing protection from enemy fire. It
received $2.25 billion in U.S. orders for the system in the past
five years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Kongsberg received orders for about 11,500 of the remote
weapon stations from the U.S., said Aleksander Nilsen, an analyst
with ABG Sundal Collier Holding ASA in Oslo. That helped the
company almost double its revenue to $2.7 billion last year from
$1.5 billion in 2007.  Afghanistan War  Sales of remote weapons-control systems face pressure as
U.S. demand for ground vehicles wanes following the end of the
war in  Iraq  and the decision to withdraw troops from  Afghanistan 
by the end of 2014.  The U.S. Army in February 2011 said it planned to hold a
new competition for remote-firing systems and would buy as many
as 18,000 units. The Army changed course in September, saying it
would buy about 3,000 stations at an estimated cost of $970
million over five years.  The Pentagon plans to cut $487 billion from previous budget
projections in the next decade, and $500 billion in additional
cuts may begin in January if no agreement on the deficit is
reached.  The reduction in U.S. military spending hurt Kongsberg
investors in the past year. The stock lost 23 percent, including
dividends, in the 12 months ended last week,  compared with a
loss  of 0.9 percent in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Aerospace &
Defense Index.  Low Valuation  The decline in Kongsberg’s share price reflects concern
that lower U.S. military spending will hurt revenue, said
Kenneth Sivertsen, an analyst at Oslo-based Arctic Securities
ASA. The company’s  low valuation  may not be warranted because
Kongsberg is less dependent on defense spending than most of its
peers, he said.  “Kongsberg still has a maritime business which is close to
half its earnings, and that’s its most important growth area,”
Sivertsen said.  Sales of maritime products such as a system that keeps
ships in position by calculating the force needed to counter the
pull from wind and waves generated $186 million, or 51 percent,
of Kongsberg’s operating income last year. That’s an increase
from $159 million, or 44 percent, the prior year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  By comparison, some of the contractors that produced the
worst risk-adjusted returns in the group depend on the U.S.
government for a greater share of their sales.  Worst Performers  Alliant Techsystems Inc. (ATK) , the largest supplier of
ammunition to the Pentagon, gets 65 percent of revenue from the
U.S. government. It produced the second-worst risk-adjusted
return in the group in the past five years, ahead of Rome-based
Finmeccanica SPA.  SAIC Inc. (SAI) , which provides engineering services, gets 90
percent of revenue from work funded by the U.S. government and
had the fifth-worst risk adjusted return.  Sivertsen  recommends buying  Kongsberg shares and has a
price target of 140 kroner for the stock, 22 percent higher than
yesterday’s closing price of 115 kroner on the Oslo Stock
Exchange.  The reduction in planned U.S. purchases of remote weapon-
control stations may be offset by demand from other countries,
Nilsen said.  “I still see growth, but I think the U.S. will be a
smaller portion of total revenues within that area,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nick Taborek in Washington at 
 ntaborek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  