-- Rubber Climbs for Second Day on Expectations for Monetary Easing
-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a   a n d   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 2012-07-03T05:42:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/rubber-climbs-for-second-day-on-expectations-for-monetary-easing.html
Rubber advanced for a second day on
speculation that central banks may ease monetary policy after
manufacturing unexpectedly shrank in the U.S.  The December-delivery contract gained as much as 2.8
percent to 253 yen a kilogram ($3,175 a metric ton), the highest
level since June 20, before trading at 251.5 yen on the  Tokyo 
Commodity Exchange at 2:40 p.m. That pared this year’s loss to
4.5 percent.  Asian stocks  climbed on expectations that central banks
from Washington to Frankfurt and Beijing may ease monetary
policy to shore up growth. Concern about the  U.S. economy  grew
after the  Institute for Supply Management ’s manufacturing index
for June showed a contraction for the first time in almost three
years, even as gauges from Europe to China topped forecasts.  “Futures were bought back as a rally in equities markets
boosted the risk appetite of investors,” said Takaki Shigemoto,
an analyst at research company JSC Corp. in Tokyo. The U.S. data
raised speculation for additional policy easing, he said today.  The  European Central Bank  and the  Bank of England  will
announce interest-rate decisions on July 5. ECB officials will
cut the benchmark rate 25 basis points to a record low 0.75
percent, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey
of 57 economists. A cut in the reserve requirement ratio for
major banks is due, the China Securities Journal said.  Rubber for September delivery surged 2.6 percent to 23,885
 yuan  ($3,759) a ton on the Shanghai Futures Exchange at midday
break. Thai rubber on a  free-on-board  basis was unchanged at
103.55 baht ($3.28) a kilogram today, according to the Rubber
Research Institute of Thailand.  Thailand’s Rubber Estate Organization raised  the price  at
which it buys ribbed-smoked sheets from farmers to 94.95 baht a
kilogram. That’s higher than the average auctioned price in
three southern markets of 91.95 baht, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aya Takada at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net 
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jarrett Banks at 
 Jbanks15@bloomberg.net  