-- Russia May Sell S-300s to Iran If Syrian Government Falls
-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2012-07-03T14:44:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/russia-may-sell-s-300s-to-iran-if-syrian-government-falls.html
Russia may scrap its ban on S-300
anti-aircraft missile sales to Iran if Syrian President Bashar al-Assad is replaced, said  Ruslan Pukhov , who heads a Russian
defense think tank.  Then-President Dmitry Medvedev signed a decree prohibiting
the sale of Russian weapons, including S-300s, to Iran in 2010
after the  United Nations  imposed sanctions against the Islamic
republic. Iran has sued Russia for breach of contract.  “The S-300 ban was a political decision and these systems
are not actually subject to sanctions,” Pukhov, director of  the
Center for Analysis of Strategies and Technologies  in Moscow,
said in an interview today. “If the Syrian regime is changed by
force or if Russia doesn’t like the outcome” of a peaceful
transition to a new government, “it most likely will respond by
selling S-300s to Iran.”  Russian Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov , along with his
counterparts from the U.S., the U.K.,  France  and China, endorsed
a United Nations plan for political transition in  Syria  on June
30. Lavrov said the road map doesn’t imply Assad’s ouster and
Russia says it will continue to block efforts in the UN Security
Council to impose sanctions on Syria to force him out.  Assad’s government is fighting a growing insurrection in
which as many as 17,000 people have died in the last 16 months,
according to non-governmental organizations. At least 114 people
were killed in Syria yesterday, the Local Coordination
Committees in Syria said in an e-mail.  ‘Timely Decision’  “The fall of the Syrian government would significantly
increase the chances of a strike on  Iran ,” said Pukhov, who
also sits on a Defense Ministry advisory board. “Resuming S-300
shipments to Iran may be a very timely decision.”  Western powers say the Persian Gulf nation is hiding a
nuclear-weapons program, and the U.S. and  Israel  have declined
to discount the possibility of military strikes against its
atomic installations.  Due to the export ban on S-300 exports to Iran Russia lost
about $1 billion dollars, according to Pukhov’s  think tank .
Russia built Iran’s $1 billion Bushehr atomic plant, the
country’s first, and the country has said it would like to order
new Russian-made nuclear power stations.  After shipments of S-300 were stopped in 2009, Iran also
canceled talks on buying 40 TU-204 passenger aircraft, which
would have added about $3.5 billion of revenue, CAST says.  President  Vladimir Putin  may resume shipments to Iran in
retaliation for the U.S. selling weapons to  Georgia  and at the
same time to promote Russia as an arms exporter, Pukhov said.  Improving Image  “Russia needs to bolster its image as an exporter as a
decline in weapons exports is inevitable” because the country
“is fulfilling its contract obligations in arms trade quicker
than it gets new contracts,” he said.  Russia has signed export contracts worth $5.7 billion this
year, up from $3.3 billion in the first half of 2011, Putin
said. It shipped $6.5 billion of defense equipment overseas in
the first half of 2012, up 14 percent from a year earlier.  Arms exports more than doubled to $13.7 billion in 2011
from $6 billion in 2005 and exceeded $44 billion over the last
seven years, Putin  said  on July 2 in the Black Sea resort of
Sochi. Defense accounts for 2.5 percent of Russian exports.  Fifty-five countries including  India ,  China ,  Venezuela ,
Syria and the U.S. buy Russian weapons. Sales of new-generation
air defense system S-400s to China may begin as early as 2015,
Pukhov said.  Syria Contracts  In Syria, Putin has focused on negotiations over sanctions
or military intervention after Russia lost billions of dollars
of arms and civilian contracts as a result of the Arab Spring
uprisings that toppled autocratic regimes in the region.  Since 2006 Syria signed with Russia arms contracts for
about $5.5 billion, according to CAST estimates. In 2012, Syria
is due to receive Russian weapons for about $500 million, CAST
estimates.  Russia has contracts with Syria to deliver fighter jets,
anti-aircraft systems and anti-tank systems, according to
Pukhov’s think tank. Vyacheslav Davidenko, a spokesman for
Rosoboronexport,  Russia ’s arms export monopoly, declined to
comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  