-- Russia Stocks Rally to Two-Month High on Oil; Raspadskaya Jumps
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2012-07-03T15:27:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/russia-stocks-rally-to-two-month-high-on-oil-raspadskaya-jumps.html
Russian stocks climbed to a two-month
high as oil, the nation’s biggest export earner, gained and
investors bought riskier assets on speculation central banks
from  Europe  to  China  may ease monetary policy to bolster growth.  The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  rose 2.5 percent to 1,437.45 by the close
in Moscow, the strongest level since May 3. OAO Raspadskaya led
gains, climbing 8 percent after Troika Dialog raised its
recommendation for the coal producer to buy from hold, citing
“strong” cash flow and dividend capacity. OAO Magnitogorsk
Iron & Steel increased 4.9 percent as the steelmaker dropped a
proposed takeover of Australia’s Flinders Mines Ltd.  Crude oil gained 4.2 percent to $87.30 a barrel in  New
York . Oil and gas contribute about 50 percent of Russia’s state
revenue.  Emerging-market stocks  rose as the  European Central
Bank  is forecast by economists to cut  interest rates  this week
to help curb the debt crisis, while a state-owned newspaper in
China said the time is right to lower banks’  reserve-requirement
ratios . Declining employment figures in the U.S. this week may
prompt the  Federal Reserve  to initiate fresh stimulus, BNP
Paribas SA said.  “European authorities are doing the right thing by
addressing economic growth concerns,”  Ivan Tchakarov , chief
economist at Renaissance Capital in Moscow, said by phone.
“Russia has suffered so much that the market will be rising for
the next few weeks.”  BRICs Growth  Magnitogorsk, known as MMK, dropped its bid for Flinders
yesterday after a Russian court postponed a ruling on a minority
shareholder’s effort to block the takeover.  The Micex posted the biggest three-day advance since Oct.
10. MSCI Inc’s gauge of emerging-market stocks gained 1.6
percent to 956.78, the highest intraday level since May 14.  Brazil , Russia, India and China, known as the BRICs, will
comprise 20 percent of the world economy this year after growing
more than four-fold in the past decade, International Monetary
Fund data show. At the same time, their combined stock-market
value has dropped to a three-year low of 16 percent of the total
invested in equities, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Russia ’s benchmark gauge trades at 5.2 times  estimated
earnings , the highest level since March 28, and has added 2.5
percent this year. That compares with 9.7 times projected
earnings for MSCI’s emerging-market gauge, which has gained 4
percent this year.  “Data weakness is fueling investor hopes for policy
action, which may come as early as this week with the ECB
expected to cut rates,” Alfa Bank analysts led by Peter Szopo,
said in an e-mailed research note.  E.On Russia rallied 1.2 percent to 2.5106 rubles, the
highest level since June 18. The power company raised its profit
forecast after reaching a long-term price agreement with OAO
Gazprom, Russia’s natural gas export monopoly.  Dividend Payout  Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index rose 3 percent to 615.10, the
highest intraday level since May 30.  Renaissance Capital  forecast an increase in Russian market
valuations by the end of the year as companies pay dividends,
according to an e-mailed research note today. Companies will pay
$8.4 billion in dividends and buy back up to $6 billion of
shares by the end of August, which investors may reinvest into
the Russian market, Renaissance analysts led by Milena Ivanova- Venturini said in the note.  Russian equities  trade  at the cheapest valuations among 21
 emerging markets  tracked by Bloomberg, reflecting concern the
country is too reliant on oil.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  