-- Russian Inflation Set to Accelerate as Food Prices Rise
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2012-07-03T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/russian-inflation-set-to-accelerate-as-food-prices-rise.html
Russian  inflation  probably quickened
last month from a record low to the fastest pace since January
as food costs increased, a survey of economists showed.  Consumer prices rose 4 percent from a year earlier,
compared with a 3.6 percent advance the previous month,
according to the median of 16 estimates in a Bloomberg  survey .
Prices increased 0.6 percent from May, a second poll showed. The
Moscow-based Federal Statistics Service will report the data
today or tomorrow.  The inflation rate in the world’s largest energy exporter
has held at 3.6 percent in April and May, the lowest since the
collapse of the  Soviet Union , after the government delayed
annual utility-tariff increases for six months. That trend may
reverse as hot weather reduces crop yields and drives food
prices higher, according to Piotr Matys, an emerging-markets
analyst at 4Cast Ltd. in  London .  “June will be a turning point as inflation’s going to
resume an upward trend,” Matys said yesterday in a telephone
interview. “Food has been the main cooling factor behind
 Russia ’s  consumer-price index  in previous months and the central
bank warned us that this positive factor is going to fade.”  The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  rose 2.5 percent to 1,437.45 by the close
in Moscow, the strongest level since May 3. It has risen 2.6
percent in 2012. The ruble strengthened 1.4 percent to 32.1500
per dollar, the highest level since May 28, after weakening 9.2
percent in the second quarter.  Grain Crop  Food costs, which account for 30 percent of the consumer
price index, have  risen  at a slower pace over the last year
after a strong harvest. Russia’s grain crop will fall to between
80.5 million and 85 million tons in the 2012-13 season from 94
million tons the previous year, Andrei Sizov Jr., managing
director of Moscow’s SovEcon research center, said yesterday.  The central bank has left its benchmark  interest rate 
unchanged since December even as monetary-policy makers in
developed and emerging nations reduce borrowing costs to
stimulate their economies. Price growth will pick up in the
second half of 2012 as the effects of food disinflation
disappear and utility prices rise, the regulator said June 15.  Bank Rossii still predicts full-year inflation of 5 percent
to 6 percent, compared with about 4 percent now, Deputy Chairman
Sergey Shvetsov told reporters in Moscow yesterday.  “We have every reason to believe that when the July factor
feeds through, we’ll reach the target range,” he said. “The
harvest has been fairly normal, so we’re sure we’ll finish the
year within the target range.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  