-- RWE Sees German Climate Goals Threatened by Grid Delays: Energy
-- B y   T i n o   A n d r e s e n   a n d   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2012-07-04T08:11:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/rwe-sees-german-climate-goals-threatened-by-grid-delays-energy.html
RWE AG (RWE) ,  Europe ’s biggest air
polluter, won’t reach clean-energy goals unless  Germany  ends
delays linking offshore wind farms to the nation’s transmission
network.  The German electricity company has spent about 1 billion
euros ($1.26 billion) on a wind park in the  North Sea  that can’t
start production because the local grid operator hasn’t built
the connection to the 48 windmills. The hold-ups jeopardize
further investment in wind power, the mainstay of RWE’s plan to
more than double the proportion of power it gets from renewables
by 2020, the company said.  From  China  to  Texas , wind-farm developers have delayed or
ditched plans for profitable  power plants  because they can’t get
a grid connection. Authorities in China, the world’s biggest
wind-energy market, are blaming the issue for the nation’s first
slowdown in new construction in at least eight years.  “Offshore wind is still at a very initial stage in Germany
and we are losing speed before we even got started,” RWE’s new
chief executive officer, Peter Terium, who took charge on July
1, said in Berlin last week. “My biggest challenge is to take
the helm in this difficult environment” where Germany is
switching to renewable energy.  RWE shares dropped 1.1 percent to 32.965 euros at 10 a.m.
local time today as Germany’s benchmark DAX index fell 0.4
percent.  Yoga Devotee  The Dutchman and yoga devotee has taken over at Germany’s
second-largest utility as the decision to close all the
country’s nuclear reactors deprives the company of low-carbon
generation, forcing him to invest billions in  wind turbines  and
solar panels. He’ll also try to revive a flagging asset-sales
program and negotiate a deal with  Russia ’s  OAO Gazprom (GAZP)  on gas
supply after rival  EON AG (EOAN)  settled a similar dispute.  “The connection of the offshore wind farms is a
substantial problem,” said Thomas Deser, portfolio manager at
Union Investment GmbH responsible for the fund’s 92 million-euro
stake in RWE. “RWE could bring forward solar investments and
postpone but not abandon investments in wind farms.”  While grid operator TenneT TSO GmbH has told RWE it doesn’t
know when it will be able to link up the North Sea East project,
the German government this week agreed to a framework for
compensating wind farm developers for connection delays. Deputy
CEO Rolf Schmitz said on June 27 unless the situation improves
the company won’t reach its clean-energy target.  Reactor Shutdown  Terium, 48, succeeds  Juergen Grossmann , who saw RWE lose
about 60 percent of its market value during his five-year tenure
as unprofitable gas-import contracts with Gazprom and the
reactor shutdown cut earnings.  Investors remain unimpressed by the prospects for RWE,
where profit dropped 34 percent last year. Based on the ratio of
next year’s earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization to equity and debt,  the company is cheaper  than all
bar one of the members in Europe’s benchmark utilities index.  Terium trained as an auditor in the Netherlands before
joining RWE in 2003. He became CEO of the supply and trading
business two years later and in 2009 took charge of Dutch
utility Essent NV after it was acquired by RWE. In September, he
joined RWE’s executive board as deputy CEO.  “A big company like RWE with its bulk is more difficult to
move than a small enterprise,” Terium said in an interview in
Berlin.  “Traditionally, it is not the fate of a utility to
handle uncertainty.”  To free up cash for investment, RWE aims to sell 7 billion
euros of assets by the end of next year. That may prove
difficult because RWE’s planned 3 billion-euro sale of its
assets in  Egypt  is stalled as the country’s turbulent political
transition deters potential buyers, people familiar with the
situation said last month.  Nuclear Reactors  RWE runs three of Germany’s nine nuclear reactors after it
had to close two others on Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s orders
last year. As the remaining reactors are readied for shutdown,
RWE will have to decide how to replace the generating capacity.  Building new coal-fired plants isn’t likely because of
emissions limits, while less polluting gas-fired generators
aren’t financially viable at the moment. That leaves renewables.
As Germany shifts from nuclear, it plans to raise the share of
renewable power to at least 35 percent by 2020, up from about 20
percent now.  Terium “has to decide how RWE will allocate its future
investments of about 5 billion euros a year,” Matthias Heck, an
analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd. in  Frankfurt , said by phone.
“This may become difficult, because generation spreads are
currently too low to justify investments in new conventional
generation assets.”  Cutting Jobs  Rival EON AG, based in Dusseldorf, is cutting jobs and last
month shored up its financial position by selling Open Grid
Europe, Germany’s biggest gas distribution system, for 3.2
billion euros. EON this week said it had settled its dispute
with Gazprom in a deal that will increase half-year earnings by
1 billion euros.  RWE will invest 5 billion euros in renewables in four
years, mainly in sea-based wind farms in Germany and the U.K.
Renewable plans also include w on land in Germany, the
Netherlands and  Poland , as windmills as investments in biomass
stations and existing hydropower facilities.  T. Boone Pickens ’ Mesa Power LLP canceled plans to build a
$10 billion wind farm in the Texas Panhandle region because
transmission wasn’t adequate to handle the amount of power they
would produce. He cut in half the number of General Electric Co.
he’d planned to buy and instead sought to build projects close
to transmission lines in Minnesota and  Canada .  Terium, RWE’s second Dutch-born CEO after Harry Roels,
watched this month’s Germany versus Netherlands soccer match at
the company’s headquarters wearing Holland’s traditional orange.
To avoid offending his German co-workers he said he can only win
when the two countries play each other.  “Terium’s willing to listen to different opinions and I
trust he’ll make the right decisions and softly steer the tanker
on course,” Union Investment’s Deser said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tino Andresen in Frankfurt at 
 tandresen1@bloomberg.net ;
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net ;
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  