-- SAP Schools Workers Apple-Style on Making Most of Mobile Devices
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2012-07-03T14:24:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/sap-schools-workers-apple-style-on-making-most-of-mobile-devices.html
SAP AG (SAP) , whose software helps some of
the world’s largest firms run their  operations , is following the
model of Apple Inc.’s stores to show its own workers how to get
the most from their smartphones and tablets.  Employees can try devices and software, join training
sessions and get technical advice at SAP Mobile Solutions
Centers, Chief Information Officer Oliver Bussmann said in a
phone interview today. He spoke from SAP headquarters in
Walldorf,  Germany , where the newest center opens today following
inaugurations in London, Paris and Mumbai earlier this year.  “Things have to be easier and more fun, and information
has to be accessible, those are typical trends that are moving
from the consumer world to the enterprise world,” Bussmann
said. “If you want good people, and you want to encourage their
creativity and productivity, you can’t fall behind.”  SAP’s 56,000 employees are using almost that many mobile
devices in their jobs, including more than 17,000  Apple (AAPL)  iPads,
18,000 BlackBerrys made by  Research in Motion Ltd. (RIM)  and phones
and tablets made by  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  The devices are used
most heavily by traveling sales and technical support staff,
while workers in areas such as purchasing and human resources
are increasingly relying on them, Bussmann said.  The German location covers about 200 square meters (2,150
square feet) and features a demonstration and tryout area, a
gallery exhibiting devices, a service desk reminiscent of the
Genius Bar in Apple retail stores, and a training room.  Client Demonstrations  SAP is also using the centers to promote its mobile
software by inviting clients to demonstrate how the handsets can
be used for tasks such as recording travel expenses or
conducting sales analysis. Such training may help employees
demonstrate the effectiveness of SAP applications to prospective
clients, Bussmann said.  Co-Chief Executive Officers  Bill McDermott  and Jim Hagemann Snabe aim to lift SAP’s revenue to more than 20 billion euros
($25 billion) by 2015, from 14.2 billion euros last year. They
are counting on rising demand among corporations for mobile
software as one of SAP’s main paths to reach the goal, along
with on-demand software accessed over the Web, real-time
analytics and databases. SAP is the world’s largest business-
management software maker.  Apple, based in Cupertino,  California , opened its first
store in 2001 in  Virginia  and now runs more than 350 shops
worldwide for customers rather than Apple workers. The concept,
which relies on customer involvement and features Apple workers
cheering for buyers of a new product on release day, is being
adopted by companies including Bayerische Motoren Werke AG, the
world’s largest maker of luxury cars.  U.S. Training  SAP plans to add 11 more locations, including sites in the
U.S., Bussmann said.  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Windows 8 operating system, intended for
release this year, may offer better input options than software
now on the market, Bussmann said. SAP may recommend devices
running the platform to workers who need to do tasks such as
altering a presentation while in the field, Bussmann said.  “There’s a real demand for answers to questions like,
which device is the right one, and how do I use this function,”
Bussmann said. “We’ve been absolutely surprised by how much
interest people are showing in these questions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  