-- Sarkozy Home and Office Searched in Campaign-Finance Inquiry
-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 2012-07-03T16:47:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/sarkozy-home-and-offices-searched-by-police-france-inter-says.html
Former French President  Nicolas Sarkozy ’s home and his Paris office were searched today by
police in an investigation into allegations of campaign finance
violations, according to his lawyer.  Police, led by Judge Jean-Michel Gentil, went to the home
Sarkozy shares with wife  Carla Bruni  and the office he was given
as a former head of state, according to a statement to Agence
France-Presse by his lawyer, Thierry Herzog. The probe is part
of an investigation into claims that cash from Liliane Bettencourt illegally funded his 2007 election campaign.  “All of the necessary pieces of information” from 2007
were sent by Sarkozy to Gentil two weeks ago, making the
searches “pointless,” according to the statement. The evidence
submitted demonstrated “the absolute impossibility of the
claimed secret rendezvous with Madame  Liliane Bettencourt ,” AFP
cited his statement as saying.  Sarkozy and his family left for holiday in  Canada 
yesterday, according to Herzog.  France Inter previously reported on its  website  that a
search also took place at Sarkozy’s law offices today. Herzog
didn’t confirm that search in the statement. AFP cited an
unnamed source saying nothing was seized during the searches.  Calls for comment to the prosecutors in Bordeaux, Sarkozy’s
office, and Herzog weren’t immediately returned.  Multiple Investigations  There are multiple investigations in progress related to
 L’Oreal SA (OR)  heiress Bettencourt. Judges in Bordeaux are looking
into claims the 89-year-old, now a court-ordered ward of her
family, was manipulated by members of her entourage into giving
away cash, art, real estate and other property.  Those inquiries have spawned related probes into  influence
peddling  and corruption. Bettencourt’s former financial adviser
and the treasurer of Sarkozy’s party during the campaign have
been charged in the probes. Both men deny the allegations.  Sarkozy has denied getting illegal campaign contributions,
saying on April 3 on Canal Plus television channel that
“there’s not a penny whose origin is unaccounted for.”  He acknowledged knowing Bettencourt and her family, saying
they were long-time residents of his town of Neuilly and “of
course” he’s met them, adding “what’s the problem?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Smith in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root in Paris at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  