-- SEC Loses Bid to Force SIPC Payout for Stanford Investors
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-07-03T19:58:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/sec-loses-bid-to-force-sipc-payout-for-stanford-investors.html
The Securities Investor Protection
Corp., an industry fund that covers losses from brokerage firm
failures, bears no responsibility to compensate victims of R. Allen Stanford’s $7 billion fraud, a federal judge ruled.  U.S. District Judge Robert Wilkins in  Washington  today said
the Securities and Exchange Commission failed to show the 7,000
clients who invested in the Ponzi scheme met the definition of
“customer” under the Securities Investor Protection Act, which
set up the nonprofit fund run by the brokerage industry.  “The court is truly sympathetic to the plight of the SGC
clients who purchased the SIBL CDs and now find themselves
searching desperately for relief,” Wilkins said, referring to
the Stanford Group Co. and Stanford International Bank Ltd.  He declined to order a liquidation proceeding in federal
court in  Texas , where the unwinding of Stanford’s firm is taking
place.  The ruling, a defeat for the SEC, spares the fund from
demands that would have drained its resources and added what the
head of SIPC told lawmakers would be a “new and radically
different level of protection” than the organization was
designed accommodate.  ‘No Joy’  “I take no joy in this, but it’s the right decision,”
 Stephen Harbeck , the fund’s president, said in a telephone
interview. “We struggled with the fact of saying no, but we
don’t underwrite bad investments.”  The SEC told SIPC on June 15, 2001, to start a process that
could grant as much as $500,000 for each Stanford client -- the
same maximum amount it offers in other cases. After SIPC balked,
the SEC sued the congressionally chartered group for the first
time.  A federal jury in Houston convicted Stanford on March 8 on
13 of 14 charges brought in connection with the Ponzi scheme,
including four counts of  wire fraud  and five of mail fraud. He
was sentenced on June 14 to 110 years in prison.  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, said the agency is reviewing
the ruling and declined to comment on whether it will seek an
appeal.  “Our hands are tied and we’re at the mercy of the SEC
again,” said Angela Shaw, a former Stanford investor who said
she and her husband lost $2 million. “It’s really quite a
surprise and I hope the SEC goes to bat for us again and appeals
it. We have no private right of actions under SIPA.”  Ponzi Scheme  SIPC argued in court that there was no basis for requiring
it to guarantee investments at an entity that isn’t a member,
such as Antigua-based Stanford International Bank. The
organization also said it doesn’t guarantee an investment’s
value, protect against fraud or cover investments with offshore
banks.  SIPC covers the damages of individual investors who lose
money or securities held by insolvent or failing member
brokerage firms. It agreed to pay victims of  Bernard Madoff ’s
multibillion-dollar Ponzi scheme and investors who may have lost
money in the October collapse of commodities broker  MF Global
Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ)   Harbeck said that SIPC didn’t get involved in the Stanford
losses because investors received actual CDs after the brokerage
passed their money to a bank. What happened after that isn’t
under SIPC’s purview because the Stanford account holders have
possession of their securities, he said.  ‘Offshore Bank’  The Securities Investor Protection Act “does not even
permit, much less require, the initiation of a liquidation for
purchasers of the offshore bank certificates of deposit at issue
here,” SIPC said in a court filing.  The SEC eventually decided that there was no true
separation between Stanford’s bank and the brokerage firm.
Customers who made investments with the bank were effectively
depositing money with the brokerage and should get SIPC
coverage, the SEC said.  SIPC hasn’t previously drawn from its $2.5 billion Treasury
line of credit, Sharon Y. Bowen, SIPC’s acting chairman, told
lawmakers.  SIPC now has $1.5 billion in its fund, after paying about
$800 million to victims in the Madoff fraud and more than $300
million in legal fees in that case, Harbeck said told a House
subcommittee on March 7. He estimated that Madoff fees will
eventually reach about $1 billion.  Investors and their advocates in Congress say SIPC is
deliberately taking a narrow view of the law to protect brokers
from higher assessments.  The case is Securities and Exchange Commission v.
Securities Investor Protection Corp., 11-mc-00678, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  