-- Serbs Sell Bills as Debts Loom, Socialists Form Cabinet
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2012-07-04T12:49:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/serbs-sell-bills-as-debts-loom-socialists-form-cabinet.html
Serbia ’s borrowing costs climbed to
the highest since February 2011 after the government in its
first auction since the Socialist Party of  Slobodan Milosevic 
asked to form a government and as the country faces its biggest
month of debt redemptions this year.  The former Yugoslav republic raised 6.87 billion dinars in
the sale of 53-week notes, less than the maximum target of 18
billion dinars, according to the debt-selling agency. The yield
was 14.25, up from 13.49 percent at the previous sale of similar
debt on June 20.  The dinar declined 0.35 percent against the euro to trade
at 115.2966 to the euro at 2:48 p.m. in Belgrade according to
data compiled by Bloomberg, while BELEX15, the main index of 15
most actively traded assets on the Belgrade bourse, declined
0.35 percent on the day to 428.75 points, its lowest close in
three years.  Socialist Party leader  Ivica Dacic  offered to form a
government to end eight weeks of political stalemate, President
 Tomislav Nikolic  said June 28. The Socialists are set to take
power by the end of July for the first time since party founder
Milosevic, blamed for fomenting the 1990s Balkan Civil wars that
destroyed the local economy, was ousted. International lenders
have urged the candidate for European Union entry not to veer
from austerity measures as  Europe ’s debt crisis threatens to
push Serbia back into recession.  ‘Fundamentals’ Change  “We need to see a change in fundamentals and stabilization
in political terms,” said Viktor Szabo, who helps oversee $8
billion in emerging-market debt at Aberdeen Asset Management in
 London  and doesn’t plan to take part in the auction. “Without a
government, without the security of the  International Monetary
Fund  and with the European crisis having an impact, Serbia is
not the best investment opportunity.”  Dacic, Milosevic’s former spokesman whose Socialist Party
came in third place in May 6 general elections, was given the
chance to build a coalition. The top two vote-getters, the
Progressive Party and former President  Boris Tadic ’s Democrats,
remained locked in a power stalemate.  Nikolic, the former head of the Progressive Party, won
presidential elections last month after vowing to defy the EU
and the U.S. with its claims on  Kosovo  and promising to move the
former communist nation closer to  Russia .  ‘Watershed’ Week  Dacic is in talks with the Progressive Party and the allied
United Regions of Serbia to form a three-party government, and
“coalition talks are going in the right direction,” his senior
party official and head of the Srbijagas gas monopoly Dusan Bajatovic said today.  “This week will be a watershed for our public finances,”
said Ivan Nikolic, an analyst at the Belgrade-based Economics
Institute, in a July 2 phone interview. “If these two auctions
fail, we really are on the verge of bankruptcy.”  Vladimir Vuckovic, a member of the country’s Fiscal
Council, said today that the country needs to raise between 2.5
billion euros ($3.15 billion) and 3 billion euros by the end of
the year to finance the budget and service debts. Serbia needs
to repay 900 million euros worth of debts through September.  “Our state needs a lot of money in the short period of
time and it is clear that we increasingly depend on those weekly
even daily cash inflows,” Vuckovic said.  Budget Gap  About 34.7 billion dinars of debt comes due in July, the
biggest month for repayments in 2012, according to Jasna Atanasijevic, chief economist at the Belgrade-based Hypo Alpe
Adria AD, citing Finance Ministry data.  Outgoing Premier Mirko Cvetkovic said today the 2012 budget
gap will be exceeded by as much as 350 million euros, less than
500 million euros to 600 million euros what economists have
estimated.  Richard Segal , the director of the emerging-markets group
at the London-based Jefferies International Ltd., said the
coalition led by Dacic, a colleague of Milosevic in the 1990s,
will be “the one of convenience” that allows the country to
avoid another round of campaigning and new elections.  The country’s two larger political parties are under
increasing pressure by the U.S., which is sending an envoy to
Belgrade to foster a compromise that would block Dacic from
taking over the government, according to Belgrade newspaper Blic
on July, citing unidentified officials.  Kosovo Compromise  U.S. Deputy Assistant Secretary Philip Reeker is visiting
Serbia from July 3 to July 5 as a part of regular visits to the
region, while Assistant Secretary Philip Gordon will be in the
Serbian capital on July 8 and July 9 after attending a Croatian
economic conference in Dubrovnik, the U.S. Embassy in Belgrade
said. Embassy officials had no comment on the Blic report.  The U.S. and the EU have been prodding Serbia to reach a
peaceful compromise with Kosovo, the breakaway province that
unilaterally declared independence in 2008 and has been
recognized by the U.S. and 22 of 27 EU states.  The government that emerges from coalition talks will have
to tackle the faltering economy and cut the  budget deficit 
before offering any incentives for growth to businesses, said
Milojko Arsic, a central bank board member and the chief
macroeconomist at the Belgrade-based FREN economic research
center.  IMF Loan  Meanwhile, to try to attract investors back to the Balkan
country, the government should try direct striking deals with
foreign lenders on offered rates, use state deposits for bridge
financing, shorten maturities and “borrow as little as
possible, to bide time until striking a new IMF loan deal,”
Arsic said in a July 2 phone interview.  Serbia’s $1.3 billion precautionary loan program with the
IMF was suspended in February, following evidence that the
government would slip on all fiscal targets.  Aleksandar Vlahovic, the chairman of the Serbian
Association of Economists, said the government needs “drastic
spending cuts” and a boost in revenue with measures such as a
two- to three-percentage-point increase in the value-added tax
and improved tax collection.  “An alternative to those measures will be the depreciation
of the dinar, resulting in inflation,” Vlahovic said in a June
26 phone interview.  ‘Too High for Comfort’  Serbia is struggling with high public debt, which is
“becoming much too high for comfort and this comes primarily
from the fact that the fiscal deficit remains too high and needs
to be brought down,” Loup Brefort, the  World Bank ’s resident
representative told a business forum in Belgrade today. Public
debt rose to 52.1 percent of GDP in April while the fiscal
deficit reached 7.3 percent at the end of March.  For the time being, Serbian illiquid 2021 Eurobonds
“continue to levitate,” Jefferies International’s Segal said.  Bond prices and yields, which may “remain stagnant”
during Cabinet talks, may continue to deteriorate once fiscal
and economic policies by the new government are released.  Dinkic’s Regions of Serbia, which wants control of the
Finance and Economy Ministries, prepared an economic program
that calls for “urgent measures” to reduce the budget deficit
to around 4 percent and 5 percent of gross domestic product in
2013 and below 3 percent of GDP in the following years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  