-- Serbian Central Bank Warns of Looming Crisis on High Debt Level
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2012-07-03T14:35:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/serbian-central-bank-warns-of-looming-crisis-on-high-debt-level.html
Serbia ’s expanding public debt and
dwindling liquidity can tip the country into a debt crisis,
unless a new government takes office soon to ensure economic
recovery, the central bank said.  A liquidity crunch, the Euro-area crisis and economic
stagnation threaten Serbia’s financial stability and growth
prospects, the Belgrade-based National Bank of Serbia said in an
e-mail today, after submitting a report to parliament.  “Public debt has already exceeded not only the limit set
by the law, but also the limit above which a debt crisis is
possible and it requires a forceful fiscal adjustment,” the
central bank said.  Public debt reached 52.1 percent of gross domestic product
in April, exceeding a 45 percent limit set by self-imposed
fiscal rules.  Serbian parties have been trying to form a new government
for two months, following inconclusive May 6 general elections.
The Balkan nation’s economy contracted 1.3 percent in the first
quarter, unemployment rose to 25.5 percent in April from 23.7
percent in November and industrial output declined for a fifth
consecutive month in May.  The fiscal deficit expanded to 7.3 percent of GDP in the
first three months and the current-account gap stood at 17.2
percent, double the full-year target.  Non-performing loans have also been rising reaching 20.4
percent in March from 19 percent of total lending at the end of
2011, the bank said.  “All these figures point to a need to form a government as
quickly as possible, which will be able to curb public spending
and ensure conditions for economic recovery,” it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  