-- Retail Banking in Slumdog City Seen Booming With Wireless
-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e
-- 2012-07-03T18:32:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/slumdog-city-retail-banking-to-boom-with-wireless-tech.html
For a good look at the future of
retail banking -- and mobile-phone profits -- in the developing
world, consider the competition between corporate giants in
Dharavi, the Indian shantytown that was the setting for the film
“ Slumdog Millionaire .”  And also consider that they are copying a strategy already
used, with great success, in  Kenya .  In  India , wireless carriers, including  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) 
and  Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI) , are stepping in to offer money transfer
services as the companies compete for a share of $10 billion in
annual rural-bound remittances in a nation where mobile phone
connections outnumber bank accounts.  Vodafone and Bharti have tied up with banks to let
customers deposit and withdraw cash and transfer money using
their phone. Faced with slowing subscriber growth and a proposed
11-fold increase in license fees, the companies are betting
mobile banking will help them boost airtime sales.  “Because of India’s sheer numbers in terms of population,
if you get the numbers, even a moderate margin could make mobile
banking a good revenue game,” said Jaideep Ghosh, a partner at
KPMG India in  Mumbai . “Revenue is quite significant compared to
overall voice revenue” if the subscriber base is large.  It’s not just the big companies that see a potential
windfall. Comviva Technologies Ltd., a company that has
developed a mobile banking platform used by France Telecom SA in
 Africa  and by Telenor ASA in  Bangladesh , has so far focused
almost exclusively on  emerging markets  for selling its product.  ‘Insecure Medium’  “The banked segment, a lot of consumers, actually
perceives the mobile as an insecure medium,” said Srinivas
Nidugondi, head of mobile financial solutions at Comviva in
Gurgaon, near  New Delhi . “People at the bottom of the pyramid,
for them, the mobile is the most advanced piece of technology
they’ve ever touched. It can’t get better than this for them. So
they will adopt.”  About half the 1.2 billion people in India, the world’s
 most populous nation  after  China , don’t have a bank account.
Ragged rural infrastructure and poverty make it hard for banks
to justify branches in small towns and villages. In contrast,
there were  919 million mobile connections  at the end of March,
of which 323 million were rural, according to the Telecom
Regulatory Authority of India.  ‘More Households’  “ Mobile phones  have reached more households than basic
banking services,”  Reserve Bank of India  Deputy Governor K. C. Chakrabarty said in a  speech  posted on the bank’s website. “The
potential of the mobile phone to extend them financial services
is still to be tapped.”  Bharti, India’s biggest wireless provider, has joined with
 Axis Bank Ltd. (AXSB)  and offers a remittance facility aimed at urban
migrant workers looking to send funds to their families.  The service allows people living in the nation’s two
largest cities, Mumbai and New Delhi, to open a basic account
with Axis Bank and use their mobile phones to transfer money to
family in Bihar and  Uttar Pradesh , the two northern Indian
states where most migrant workers originate. Customers can
initiate money transfers on mobile phones, and recipients can
draw the funds at a rural Bharti vendor.  Robbed Three Times  Shafkat Ali, a 38-year-old migrant from Uttar Pradesh who
sells prepaid SIM cards and airtime top-ups for mobile phones
and books train tickets for a fee, lives in Dharavi. Before Ali
got his first bank account -- an Axis Bank mobile banking
account -- he used to keep his savings in a wallet in a trouser
and was robbed three times in three years.  Ali now uses a low-priced  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  handset
to deposit cash and send about 10,000 rupees ($180) a month back
to his parents and four siblings, who struggle to make ends meet
at their family’s quilt-making business in Jaunpur. A high-
school dropout, Ali learned to navigate key services on the
phone’s mobile banking application with the help of a local
store owner.  “It is easy to do banking using a mobile,” said Ali,
speaking in his native Hindi language. “You don’t need to stand
in line at a bank or at the post office anymore. And there are
many illiterate people here who can’t fill out forms and read
documents, so this is easier for them.”  Kenyan Model  Vodafone India Ltd. started a partnership with  HDFC Bank
Ltd. (HDFCB)  in November last year, modeled after its highly successful
M-Pesa money transfer system in Kenya. The service, which is in
a pilot stage in the north Indian state of Rajasthan, allows
Vodafone’s customers to open basic HDFC accounts, deposit and
withdraw cash at authorized Vodafone outlets, and make money
transfers.  Safaricom Ltd., the Kenyan unit of Newbury, England-based
Vodafone, in May reported a 43 percent jump in revenue at its M-
Pesa business in the 12 months ended March, as the number of
customers for the service rose 6.4 percent to 14.9 million. The
mobile banking operation contributed 16 percent of revenue at
the African nation’s largest wireless carrier, which controls  67
percent share  of Kenya’s mobile phone market.  India, with a population 30 times the size of Kenya’s, had
only 12.2 million bank customers registered for mobile banking
as of February, according to  Reserve Bank  of India data.  “The conditions in Kenya were just so very good,” said
Wim Raymaekers, head of banking market at the  Society for
Worldwide Interbank Telecommunication  in La Hulpe,  Belgium .
“The basic infrastructure, the conditions, there were already a
lot of remittances. It is very difficult to replicate that.”  For a start, the Reserve Bank of India requires wireless
companies or “non-banks” to partner with banks to offer mobile
banking services, leading to tight controls on business. One
reason is that only banks are permitted in India to accept
deposits for maturity of less than one year.  ‘Bank-Led Model’  “Going for a bank-led model was a conscious decision,”
Alpana Killawala, spokeswoman at the central bank, wrote in an
e-mailed response to questions from Bloomberg News. The
regulator is also concerned about “customer service issues”
associated with the telecommunications company-led model, such
as insufficiency of funds at the paying outlet, she wrote.  Total domestic remittances in India were valued at $13
billion in 2010, with 80 percent of the transactions directed
toward rural areas, according to a July 2011 report by Analysys
Mason. The overall market would increase to $20.3 billion by
2014, the consulting company wrote at the time.  Vodafone plans to sign on large numbers of customers and
bring down the cost of transactions, the company wrote in an e-
mail. The bank charges the customer a fee for services and
shares revenue with the mobile operator, it said.  For Bharti, the reach of its sales network is its biggest
strength when it comes to offering mobile banking services. The
New Delhi-based carrier’s  1.5 million retail outlets  across
India outnumber Axis Bank’s 1,622 branches and 10,000 ATMs.  “It is increasingly difficult for banks to expand in rural
areas because of various infrastructure, manpower and
operational problems,” Sriram Jagannathan, chief executive
officer of mCommerce at Bharti, wrote in an e-mail. “The
population that does not have access to a bank account nor a
credit card can in future participate in electronic payments
through prepaid mobile phones.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  