-- SNB’s Jordan Says Franc Limit Is Right Policy to Avoid Recession
-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 2012-07-03T04:26:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/snb-s-jordan-says-franc-limit-is-right-policy-to-avoid-recession.html
Swiss central bank President Thomas Jordan said keeping the limit of 1.20 francs per euro is the
right policy to maintain  price stability  and prevent a
recession.  “At the moment the minimum exchange rate is the right
response for  Switzerland  to the crisis,” Jordan told German
newspaper  Handelsblatt  in an interview. “Otherwise we couldn’t
fulfill our mandate of maintaining price stability while taking
due account of economic developments. We would have negative
inflation rates for a longer period as well as a recession.”  Walter Meier, a Zurich-based spokesman for the SNB,
confirmed the remarks.  The central bank’s foreign-currency reserves jumped about
20 percent in the five months through May as policy makers
stepped up their defense of the ceiling of 1.20 francs per euro
introduced in September to fight deflation and help exporters.
Investors are piling into the Swiss currency, seen as a haven in
times of turmoil, as euro-area leaders are struggling to contain
the region’s debt crisis.  “We are ready to enforce the minimum  exchange rate  with
unlimited purchases of foreign currencies, if needed,” Jordan
told the newspaper, adding that SNB models suggest the franc is
a “very highly valued currency” at 1.20 against the euro.
“The fair value is clearly above the minimum exchange rate.”  Inflation Risk  Foreign currency reserves increased to 306.1 billion francs
($320.9 billion) in May from 247.2 billion francs the previous
month, the central bank said on June 29.  Through its purchases of euros, the central bank increases
the amount of francs available to Switzerland’s lenders, raising
the risk of inflation in the medium and long term.  There is currently no risk of a “burst of inflation” in
Switzerland or elsewhere, Jordan said.  “In Switzerland we even have problems to the contrary,”
he said. “But in the U.S. and  Europe , there is price stability
by and large. It seems that expansionary monetary policy doesn’t
trigger a jump in demand. On top of that, central banks know
they’ll have to skim off excess liquidity once the economy
recovers.”  The Swiss franc was little changed after Jordan’s comments
were published and traded at 1.20119 at 6:41 p.m. in Zurich. The
currency was almost unchanged from Friday’s close. The franc
traded at 95.40 centimes against the dollar.  Jordan said the SNB “basically” doesn’t exclude any
measure to fight the franc’s strength.  Capital controls  would be
considered “in the worst case,” he said, while declining to
elaborate on that. Jordan said that he doesn’t expect  Greece  to
exit the euro area or a collapse of the currency union.  Swiss Finance Minister Eveline Widmer-Schlumpf said in
December that a  task force  is examining options such as capital
controls and negative  interest rates  to curb the franc’s
strength if needed. Jordan is part of that panel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Klaus Wille in Zurich at   kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  