-- Solarworld Plans China Anti-Dumping Case With EU Peers
-- B y   M a r c   R o c a
-- 2012-07-03T12:23:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/solarworld-plans-china-anti-dumping-case-with-eu-peers.html
Solarworld AG (SWV) , Germany’s biggest
solar-panel maker, plans to file an anti-dumping case against
Chinese competitors as part of a group of European
manufacturers.  “We want to submit an anti-subsidy and anti-dumping case
in  Europe  as soon as possible,” Milan Nitzschke, a spokesman
for Solarworld, said today. “The trade case will be filed by a
broad coalition including several European manufacturing
companies.”  The U.S. Commerce Department in May imposed preliminary
anti-dumping duties of 31 percent to 250 percent on Chinese
solar manufacturers after ruling they sold products below cost.
The decision followed a petition led by Solarworld’s U.S. unit.  The company wants fair competition, Nitzschke said by
phone. “Just as Robert Bosch’s chairman said recently, it is
obvious that there is dumping from Chinese companies,” he said.
“Everyone in the industry knows it.” Solarworld said in May it
would file a case in Europe by the middle of the year.  Robert Bosch  GmbH Chairman Franz Fehrenbach has urged
politicians to introduce an  import tariff  on PV products to
prevent “clear dumping” from Chinese manufacturers, a company
spokeswoman said yesterday.  Solarworld will want to show an overwhelming majority of
producers support the measure so that the European Commission
finds reasons to hear the case,  Jefferies Group Inc. (JEF)  analysts
said in a note to investors. The case would start 45 days after
a complaint is filed, they said.  “Although the duties might be smaller and the likelihood
of anti-dumping duties is somewhat lower than in the U.S., the
size of the European PV market would make it hard for Chinese
cell suppliers to circumvent any duties,” Jefferies said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marc Roca in London at 
 mroca6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  