-- Solyndra Looms Over MEMC as Moody’s Watches: Corporate Finance
-- B y   K r i s t a   G i o v a c c o   a n d   J u s t i n   D o o m
-- 2012-07-03T04:00:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/solyndra-looms-over-memc-as-moody-s-watches-corporate-finance.html
MEMC Electronic Materials Inc. (WFR) , the
semiconductor wafer maker that’s been unprofitable four of the
past five quarters, may be unable to succeed where solar-panel
companies such as Abound Solar Inc. and Solyndra LLC have
failed, according to Moody’s Investors Service.  While securities of the maker of components used in solar
panels rallied yesterday after the St. Peters, Missouri-based
company announced that it sold four projects in  Bulgaria  and
 Italy  that would allow it to book cash payments for the second
quarter, Terrence Dennehy, a credit analyst at Moody’s in New
York, said he’d already factored in those funds when he
downgraded MEMC to B3 last month. The solar growth strategy at a
time of falling energy prices is risky, he said.  “If the company continues to try and grow the solar
business at the pace of the fourth and first quarters, there
could be liquidity problems,” Dennehy said in a telephone
interview. “It’s a vicious cycle. They need to build and sell
projects to get cash but construction costs consume cash.”  The wafer maker has been trying to expand its business even
as demand has declined and the American Recovery and
Reinvestment Act that provided tax credit for solar-power system
manufacturers has expired. Abound filed for  bankruptcy
protection  yesterday, and Solyndra requested more time to craft
a reorganization plan last week.  ‘Immediate Things’  Bill Michalek, a spokesman for the company, said MEMC
declined to comment.  The company’s $550 million of 7.75 percent bonds due April
2019 rose 0.8 cent on the dollar to 79.75 cents yesterday after
trading as low as 63 cents on June 1, according to Trace, the
bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority. The bonds now yield 12.24 percent, down from 17.15
percent in June and up from the year’s low of 10.91 percent in
February. Its  stock  soared 22 percent to $2.64.  “There are more immediate things than the bonds, which
mature in 2019, like the need to reduce accounts payable, paying
down the secured revolver and other near-term demands on cash,”
Dennehy said.  MEMC said in a June 7 statement that access to its $400
million revolving  credit line  would be “limited” after Moody’s
cut its debt rating to B3, the lowest level of a category the
ratings firm describes as “subject to high credit risk.”  There may be a $15 million to $20 million reduction in
MEMC’s second-quarter cash holdings, Chief Financial Officer
Brian Wuebbels said in the statement.  Cash Dwindles  MEMC’s  cash balance  dropped to $381 million on March 31
from $786 million on Sept. 30, according to a May 9 regulatory
filing. The company got 27 percent of its sales and 40 percent
of operating profit from solar energy last year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The company makes polysilicon, the basic material of
semiconductor wafers and solar panels. It also builds and sells
solar projects made with panels it contracts other companies to
produce using its wafers.  Abound, a solar-panel manufacturer that was awarded a $400
million loan guarantee by the Obama administration in 2010, has
 cited  competition from  China  for its financial performance.
China drove down the price of solar panels by half last year.  “Aggressive pricing actions from Chinese solar-panel
companies have made it very difficult for an early stage startup
company like Abound to scale in current market conditions,” the
company said in a June 28 statement.  Solyndra filed for bankruptcy protection last year after
receiving a $535 million guarantee from the same program from
the U.S. Energy Department that’s provided almost $35 billion in
loans, loan guarantees and conditional commitments to renewable
energy companies.  ‘Horrible Outlook’  MEMC yesterday said it completed sales in the second
quarter of 60 megawatts for solar farms in Bulgaria and 38
megawatts in Italy. Terms weren’t disclosed.  “This doesn’t change the horrible outlook for people
making solar panels,”  Theodore O’Neill , an analyst with
Wunderlich Securities Inc. in New York said in a telephone
interview. “They’re supposed to sell that stuff and they did.
It’s like a kid who graduates from third grade and they have a
big ceremony.”  Not all of the funds from the sales will add to MEMC’s
liquidity because it borrowed against one of the projects in
Bulgaria. The company has “non-recourse term loans from
multiple financial institutions which are secured by a 60.4 MW
solar energy system in Bulgaria,” according to a May 9 filing.  Prices for polysilicon, the main raw material in solar
cells, fell 56 percent in the last year to $22.40 a kilogram on
June 25 as sinking coal and natural-gas prices reduce the
attractiveness of other forms of energy.  December Firings  The company in December said it would fire 20 percent of
its workforce and cut production. Wuebbels was appointed chief
financial officer in May after  Mark Murphy  resigned to take a
job at Praxair Inc. Kenneth Hannah resigned May 3 as president
of MEMC’s solar unit.  Standard & Poor’s  cut the company’s rating two levels in
May, to B+ from BB, and maintains a “negative” outlook.  “There is uncertainty as to whether solar energy system
installations and sale prices will support a stabilization of
cash flows in a solar market that remains very challenging,”
analysts led by Grace Drinker wrote in the S&P downgrade report.  MEMC posted a  first-quarter loss  20 times greater than a
year earlier. The company’s net loss for the quarter was $92
million, or 40 cents a share, compared with a $4.5 million loss,
or 2 cents a share, a year earlier. That brought its cumulative
deficit for the past five quarters to $1.63 billion.  79 Megawatts  “They haven’t been earning enough margin on projects
they’ve been selling to cover ongoing operating expenses,”
Dennehy of Moody’s said. “To reach breakeven operating profit,
we estimate that they must sell at least 79 megawatts of
projects per quarter.”  MEMC’s rating could be further lowered if European solar
sales slow or if Moody’s believes “the semiconductor segment
recovery will be delayed,” Dennehy wrote in a June 7 statement.
Other factors that could lead to a downgrade include increased
cash burn because of declining solar margins, rising
construction costs and the possible unavailability of trade
credit, he wrote.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Krista Giovacco in  New York  at 
 kgiovacco1@bloomberg.net ;
Justin Doom in New York at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net ;
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  