-- South Korea Shuns Moms at Peril as Workforce Shrinks
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 2012-07-03T00:16:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/south-korea-shuns-moms-at-peril-a-workforce-shrinks.html
With a master’s degree from  South
Korea ’s Yonsei University and a resume that includes a role as a
consultant for Dublin-based  Accenture Plc (ACN) , Yoon Kyung is coming
to terms with her retirement. She’s 37.  “It was a choice between a job and baby,” she says,
explaining that no one would hire her after five years away from
the office raising her daughter. “I really want to go back to
work but there is no place that I can go.”  The failure of South Korea, one of the world’s fastest-
aging societies, to tackle a shrinking labor pool threatens to
undermine growth and lessen the nation’s odds of producing the
next Samsung Electronics Co. or  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  Only half of
women aged 15 years or older were working last year and the
participation of females with higher education is the lowest
among the 34 members of the Organization for Cooperation and
 Economic Development .  “The choice for women between a job and family is still
stark,” said Kim Tae Hong, research director at the state-run
 Korea Women’s Development Institute  in  Seoul . “Policies alone
can’t change the people’s long-held belief that mom is fully
responsible for child care.”  South Korea’s working-age population will begin to contract
by 2016, curbing growth by as much as 1.7 percentage points to
2.5 percent by 2050,  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  said in a
June 13 report.  Getting mothers back into the workforce would help offset
the declines, RBS said. If South  Korea  could reach the same
level as the U.K. in employing women, potential growth and GDP
per capita growth could be boosted by 0.3 percentage points by
2050, the bank said. In a May  report  the OECD asked whether
women were the key to furthering the country’s economic
“miracle.”  ‘Fair Opportunity’  “Government measures to put women to work have been far
from satisfactory,” said Kim Jae Won, an economist at  Samsung
Economic Research Institute . “South Korea needs measures to
enforce and monitor affirmative action programs and to check up
on companies to see if they are really providing fair
opportunity for promotions.”  Female labor participation is lagging even as Park Geun
Hye, the former leader of the New Frontier Party, has emerged as
front-runner to become the country’s first woman president.
Park, the daughter of former dictator Park Chung Hee, has topped
opinion polls for 12 weeks and may announce her candidacy as
early as this week, according to party officials.  Free Child Care  President  Lee Myung Bak ’s government has tried to encourage
women to stay at work with measures that this year included free
day care for all children up to two years old. The changes are
the latest in a series of efforts to promote equality that date
back to a 1987 Equal Opportunity Law. A 2006 law required public
and private companies with more than 1,000 workers to promote
 gender equality , a threshold lowered to 500 workers in 2008.  Still, labor-participation rates haven’t changed in two
decades, according to the OECD. While women in OECD countries
 earned  on average 16 percent less than men in 2010, in South
Korea the figure was 39 percent lower.  “In the past, Korea’s growing working population has
contributed to strong economic growth,” the OECD said in its
report. “Korea will need to use its human capital more
effectively to face the challenge of a potentially dwindling
pool of paid and unpaid workers in a country which traditionally
has experienced little immigration.”  Part of the problem is that government measures have been
inconsistent, with eligibility for benefits such as day care
shifting with administrations, said Kim at the Samsung Economic
Research Institute.  Illegal Preferences  Another reason is that some companies have gender
preferences, said Anthony Modrich, country manager in South
Korea for the London-based recruitment agency  Robert Walters .  “We sometimes have difficulty finding jobs for skilled
women,” he said, without naming the firms involved. “Korea is
unusual in that companies still specifically demand male
workers.”  It’s illegal in South Korea to seek only male or female
workers for a job, said Yim Young Mi, director of women’s
employment policy at the  Ministry of Employment and Labor .  “The law to protect female workers is in place,” Yim
said. “Enforcement is another issue.”  The failure to counter such preferences is reflected in
high-level corporate positions. The aggregate percentage of
women in South Korean boardrooms is just 1.9 percent, according
to a March  report  by New York-based GMI Ratings, which conducts
independent corporate-governance research. That’s compared with
12.6 percent in the U.S. and 36.3 percent in  Norway .  Overnight Work  Yoon, who lives in a luxury apartment building overlooking
the Han River in Seoul, says that the demands of her job meant
she couldn’t go back to work even though she and her husband
could afford private day care or a nanny.  “My job demanded frequent overnight work, business trips
and intensive study,” she says. “There was no middle ground.”  As South Korea’s birthrate fell to 1.15 in 2009 from 6
children per woman in 1960, the female education level rose.
Now, women have similar education and job opportunities at the
entry level as men, said the labor ministry’s Yim.  “The real problem starts when married women have babies,”
she said. “The traditional Confucian culture still dominates
people’s perception that child care is entirely mom’s job.”  That pressure from society is something Hwang Soon Yi can
understand. Hwang, who lives in Seoul, worked as a manager in a
post office while her two children were infants. She changed her
mind about staying in full-time employment when her eldest
daughter reached elementary school.  Other Mothers  “She cried every day as other moms took their kids to
school and waited for them in front,” Hwang said. “So I
decided to take child care leave although that could mean losing
out on a promotion.”  Now Hwang, 38, said she may not go back to work at all.
“Everyone in my family was unhappy when I worked,” she said.  Women made up a bigger part of South Korea’s workforce in
the 1960s and 1970s when they worked in sweatshops making shoes
and garments, according to Kim Tae Hong at the  Women’s
Development Institute . Their numbers dwindled as the economy
shifted to heavy industries and then to high technology, while
other manufacturers have moved overseas to tap cheaper labor, he
said.  South Korea’s birthrate fell below two children per fertile
women in the early 1980s. The north Asian nation is now the
world’s fastest-aging country, RBS said, citing data compiled
from its own sources and the  United Nations .  Aging Workers  South Korea isn’t alone in grappling with an aging
workforce. Labor pools are predicted to decline by more than 10
percent in the next 20 years in Germany and  Japan , according to
the OECD.  In Japan, women’s participation in the  labor force  has
begun to increase as workers become scarcer. Forty-two percent
of people employed in Japan in 2010 were women, the highest
share since the Labor Ministry made comparable data available in
1973, when the figure was 38.5 percent. South Korea is projected
to have the world’s second-oldest society in 2050, behind Japan,
according to the  OECD .  For Kang Seong In, the choice in South Korea is clear.
She’s worked for  KT Corp. (030200) , a telecommunications service company,
since 1996 and now heads a branch office of 14 workers in
Seoul’s financial district.  “I can’t imagine how married women with babies are
surviving in their careers,” said Kang, 41, who attends two or
three business dinners a month with clients and other drinking
events with employees. “I could not have made it up so far if I
were a mom.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  