-- South Africa Names Six Companies to Advise on Sukuk Sale
-- B y   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-07-03T15:31:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/south-africa-names-six-companies-to-advise-on-sukuk-sale.html
South Africa’s National Treasury
appointed six companies, including  Standard Bank (SBK)  Group Ltd.,  BNP
Paribas SA (BNP)  and  Albaraka Banking Group (BARKA) , to advise it on its debut
Islamic bond issue.  Nova Capital Partners LLC, Liquidity Management House for
Investment Co., and Regiments Capital (Pty) Ltd. were also
appointed, Tshepiso Moahloli, a senior analyst in the Pretoria-
based Treasury, said by phone today.  The Islamic bonds, or sukuk, may form part of the
Treasury’s plan to raise $3 billion in international markets
over the next three years, she said. South Africa, where less
than 2 percent of the 49.1 million people are Muslim, is looking
to tap the  Islamic finance  industry’s $1 trillion in assets.  “We’re engaging with the banks now; the amount, currency
and timing will depend on the outcome of our discussions,”
Moahloli said. “From what we have observed, issuance tends to
be from $500 million to about $700 million and movement around
the five-year sukuk area looks like it’s the most favored
area.”  The structuring and issuance of the sukuk may be used as a
benchmark for state-owned companies that also plan to issue
Islamic bonds, Moahloli said.  Public Finance Law  Sukuk are usually backed by assets sold to a special-
purpose company by the issuer, which then rents them back in
lieu of paying interest. The debut Islamic bond issue was
delayed after the government decided to review public finance
law, which doesn’t provide for the government to issue asset-
based securities, Thuto Shomang, head of asset and liability
management at the Treasury, said on May 17.  Moody’s Investors Service rates  South Africa  A3, the
second-highest investment grade on the continent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The country should not limit itself to an international
sukuk, Jay Henning, an executive at Cape Town-based money
manager Oasis Group Holdings, said by phone.  “While we agree with an international issue, there is
definitely demand for a South African issue as well,” Henning
said. “We have capacity for it and I’m sure other Sharia-
compliant asset managers do as well.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  