-- Soybeans Seen as `Hottest' Among Agricultural Commodities
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-07-03T15:06:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/soybeans-seen-as-hottest-among-agricultural-commodities.html
Soybeans, which have risen 21 percent
this year, are the “hottest” agricultural commodity, according
to Philippe Chalmin, professor of economic history at University
Paris-Dauphine.  Price increases earlier this year were linked to U.S.
farmers planting more corn at the expense of the oilseed and to
demand in  China , Chalmin said today at an event to publicize the
CyclOpe commodity year book at the NYSE Liffe exchange in
 London . Soybeans are the best performer in the Standard & Poor’s
GSCI gauge of 24 raw materials.  “Today, probably the market that is the hottest is
soybeans,” Chalmin said. “China is subsidizing the import of
soybeans in order to limit its inflation in food prices.”  U.S. farmers sowed the most acres with corn since 1937
after profit prospects improved and warm, dry weather encouraged
growers to boost plantings, the government said on June 29.
About 96.405 million acres were planted with corn, up 0.6
percent from 95.864 million forecast in March and compared with
91.921 million last year, the  U.S. Department of Agriculture 
said in a report based on a survey of farmers.  Chalmin, who forecast earlier this year that the average
soybean price in 2012 would be 15 percent below last year’s,
said prices may remain at current levels or soften slightly.
Soybeans for November delivery were up 1.3 percent to $14.565 a
bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade recently.  Global Surplus  “We didn’t expect so much corn compared to soybeans,”
Chalmin said in an interview. “If we have good weather, I don’t
think prices will go up and they may even soften somewhat
because these are historically high prices.”  The price of raw sugar is likely to average 20 cents a
pound this year as supplies outpace demand, he said. The global
sugar surplus will be 10.2 million metric tons in the 2011-12
season that started in October, according to Kingsman SA.
Another surplus of 9.3 million tons is forecast for 2012-13,
according to the Lausanne, Switzerland-based broker and
researcher.  “I think prices should still go down, but it will depend
of course on  India . Will India export or not?” Chalmin said.
“And of course, on  Brazil  and the arbitrage with ethanol.”  Both sugar and ethanol are made from sugar cane in Brazil.
Millers there can direct more cane for the production of one or
the other commodity depending on price incentives. The cost of
producing sugar in Brazil has risen and the country is no longer
the most efficient producer in the world, Chalmin said, adding
the cost of extracting sugar from beets is at a par with cane.  India authorized exports of 4 million tons of sugar this
season as local supplies are higher than demand.  The raw sweetener has fallen 6.7 percent in  New York  this
year. The commodity for October delivery was up 1.6 percent to
21.75 cents a pound in New York recently.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  