-- Spain’s Waning Reserve Fund Risks Undermining Bonds: Euro Credit
-- B y   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e   a n d   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2012-07-03T07:28:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/spain-s-waning-reserve-fund-risks-undermining-bonds-euro-credit.html
Spain ’s  social security  system risks
falling deeper into deficit this year, eroding the ability of
its 67 billion-euro ($85 billion) pension-reserve fund to prop
up the Spanish  bond market .  The reserve account has almost doubled its holdings of
 Spanish debt  since 2008 as declining demand for the country’s
bonds led the fund to start replacing German, French and Dutch
securities with national debt. As the welfare system posts a
loss, the fund’s ability to soak up new issues will diminish,
adding to pressure on 10-year Spanish bonds, which  yielded  482
basis points more than German bunds today.  The reserve fund’s assets, built up since 2000, is
equivalent to about 11 percent of the central government’s
estimated outstanding debt for this  year , and more than 75
percent of the planned bond issuance for 2012. Its waning
firepower comes as foreign investors shun Spanish bonds and as
domestic banks, which had been picking up the slack, begin to
reduce their holdings.  “Domestic demand in Spain isn’t sustainably sufficient to
take all the supply and any slowdown in social security
investment would only worsen that,” said  Luca Jellinek , head of
European interest-rate strategy at Credit Agricole Corporate &
Investment Bank in  London .  Spanish bonds have fallen more than 3.5 percent this year,
making them the biggest decliners in  Europe  after  Greece ,
according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. The yield on the
country’s 10-year bond fell 4 basis points today to 6.34
percent, down from a euro-era high 7.29 percent on June 18.  Foreign Exodus  Spain saw the biggest outflow of foreign investment in
April since the start of the euro, Bank of Spain data show. Non-
residents cut their holdings to 37.5 percent of the total in
May, from 38.1 percent in April and 51.5 percent at the end of
last year.  Spanish banks, which had been using emergency  European
Central Bank  loans to increase their holdings of national debt,
lowered their share to 28.7 percent of bonds in May from 29.6
percent the month before. Public entities, including the social
security fund, boosted their holdings to 15.8 percent of the
total from 14.4 percent in April, according to Treasury data.
Spain faces 32.8 billion euros of bond repayments for the  rest 
of 2012.  “The Spanish bonds that mature in the second half are 90
percent held by domestic investors, so local demand remains key
to the ability of the country to roll over its debt without
hurting the government cash reserves,” said Ralf Preusser, head
of European rates research at Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  Rising Joblessness  Spain’s social-security system is being weighed down by the
highest  unemployment  rate in the European Union at 24.6 percent,
which has drained contributions at a time when the number of
retirees is on the rise. The system recorded a deficit equal to
0.1 percent of gross domestic product last year, the first
shortfall in at least 15 years.  The government got some good news on employment today when
the national statistics office announced that jobless claims in
June, before the start of the peak tourism season, had fallen by
more than 98,000, the biggest decline in the month since the
series began in 2005.  While the government seeks to balance the system’s books
this year, economists including Ignacio Conde-Ruiz, a professor
at Complutense University and the Fedea research institute in
 Madrid , and Javier Diaz-Gimenez, a professor at the IESE
business school, forecast another deficit. Before the crisis,
they estimated the system wouldn’t face a shortfall until about
2015 or 2017.  Deficit ‘Certain’  “They are going to start having to use the  reserve fund  in
July” to cover pension payments, Diaz-Gimenez said in a
telephone interview. “There is going to be a deficit for
certain this year unless a miracle happens in the next six
months.”  Spain has 8.09 million retirees, who together receive about
7 billion euros per month, more than twice the 3.84 billion
euros of expenditures in 2000. The ratio of workers per retiree
paying into the system has fallen to 2.43, the lowest since
2003, Tomas Burgos, the deputy minister for Social Security,
said on June 5.  As the system falls deeper into deficit, the government
will be forced to change pension rules, reducing the risk to the
reserve fund, said Juan Rubio-Ramirez, an economics professor at
 Duke University  in Durham,  North Carolina . The government, led
by Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy , has pledged to keep reforming
pensions and to reduce the deficit during its four-year term.
The European Commission said in May that Spain should accelerate
its timetable for raising the  retirement age .  Expanding Benefits  Rajoy has been expanding the government’s pension
liabilities. He raised benefits in December at his second
cabinet meeting after winning power. Rajoy, who opposed the
previous administration’s increase to the retirement age and its
freeze on pensions, increased retirement pay by 1 percent to
meet an election pledge, even as he broke other campaign
promises by raising taxes.  Before last year, the social-security reserve had grown
every year since its inception. In 2005, with Spain running a
 budget surplus , the fund diversified into German, French and
Dutch debt to prevent its purchases undermining the liquidity of
the Spanish bond market, Burgos’s predecessor, Octavio Granado,
told Parliament in May 2009. As the crisis started pushing up
Spanish borrowing costs in 2008, the fund replaced maturing
foreign securities with Spanish equivalents and then accelerated
the switch into domestic debt the following year, according to a
transcript of Granado’s comments to Parliament.  Fund’s Holdings  By the end of 2011, 59.1 billion euros was invested in
Spanish debt, and 6.7 billion euros in foreign securities, the
fund’s annual  report  showed. That compares with 32.2 billion
euros of domestic government debt and 24.9 billion euros of
foreign debt at the end of 2008.  The concentration of domestic debt may pose a dilemma for
Spanish authorities when they need to tap the fund, said Diaz-
Gimenez of Complutense University. The fund held 2.2 billion
euros, or 14.8 percent, of all of Spain’s 4.2 percent 2013 bonds
in circulation at the end of 2011, according to the reserve
fund’s report to parliament.  “Nearly all of it is Spanish debt and if you want to sell
that in the secondary market, you’ll push up the spread,” he
said. “You’ll pose a serious problem for the Treasury.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net ;
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net 
Paul Armstrong at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  