-- Stadium Standing Areas Become Sports Bar Where Fans Meet Friends
-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 2012-07-03T04:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/stadium-standing-areas-become-sports-bar-where-fans-meet-friends.html
Jordan Miller paid $21 for an upper-
deck seat to see his hometown  Washington Nationals , and didn’t
spend a minute there while they played the  Baltimore Orioles .
Instead, he socialized with 10 friends just beyond the outfield
fence in a sports-bar atmosphere.  “When you’re in your seats, you can only interact with the
people next to you unless you interrupt everyone,” said Miller,
24, who works at an animal hospital and lives in Fairfax,
Virginia. “Here, you can have a conversation with all your
friends and watch the game and move around. It’s the whole
social aspect.”  From the Nationals and the Washington Redskins to the
 Kansas City Royals , who host baseball’s All-Star Game next week,
teams are squeezing more money out of their stadiums with
standing-room-only areas. They can generate as much as $735,000
in new revenue for a big game from the tickets, concessions and
parking that might otherwise go unsold, executives said.  The concept increases the value of cheap seats as teams run
out of ways to make more money out of the premium locations,
said Thad Sheely, the former  New York  Jets vice president for
stadium development and finance who left to start GridWorks LLC,
a real estate development company in  New York City .  “Club seats, suites, skyboxes, field-level suites, we’ve
gone through every permutation of how to put a premium on it,”
Sheely said in an interview. “But not every permutation on how
to put a discount on it.”  Different Perspectives  Some teams provide televisions and tables for fans to
gather around, while others have views of the field. At
Nationals Park, the outfield is just below the Miller Lite
Scoreboard bar, the crowd noise is real and a home run ball
could interrupt a conversation. Fans can watch the game on TV or
walk to the rail and see the game from the perspective of an
outfield seat.  Standing areas are more popular with fans in their 20s and
30s than older spectators, who appreciate sitting down to watch
the game, teams say.  “You’ll look at the park and see lots of empty seats, but
they’re back here listening to music, meeting friends and just
having fun,” said Nationals Chief Operating Officer Andy Feffer. “They come to the park earlier and stay later because
it’s a better entertainment experience.”  Revenue from food and beverage has quadrupled since the
Nationals renovated the Miller Lite Scoreboard Walk with new
outfield concession and entertainment areas last year, Feffer
said, without revealing figures.  Cowboys’ Plan  The  National Football League ’s Dallas Cowboys took a cue
from how spectators socialized in the infield at the  Kentucky
Derby , said Jerry Jones Jr., son of the owner and executive vice
president and chief sales and marketing officer.  “If you go to the Derby and look at the infield, there is
just a big cocktail party going on with people around tables,”
Jones said.  When their $1.2 billion, 80,000-seat stadium opened in
2009, the Cowboys began selling $29 tickets to standing-room-
only areas. Fans buy food and drinks, watch the game on high-
definition televisions or walk over to the railing and look down
on the field or up at the 72-foot by 160-foot video board. The
Cowboys sell 5,000 to 15,000 tickets in these areas per game,
Jones said in an interview. That earns the team an added
$145,000 to $435,000.  Add in an average of $20 per person for concessions,
memorabilia and parking, Sheely said, and a strong turnout could
generate another $300,000.  The Kentucky Derby sold about 110,000 general admission
tickets for $40 to $50 that didn’t come with seats for this
year’s May 5 race, according to Churchill Downs spokeswoman
Courtney Norris. Concession sales figures weren’t available.  All-Star Game  Major League Baseball  says it has sold about 2,000
standing-room-only tickets at $307 each for a three-day pass
leading up to the July 10th All-Star game at Kauffman Stadium in
 Kansas City ,  Missouri .  Sports teams are taking advantage of how young people
socialize today, said Greg Sherlock, a project designer and
principal at Kansas City-based Populous, which built the
Baltimore Orioles’ Camden Yards, Yankee Stadium in New York,
 Heinz Field  in Pittsburgh and the main stadia for the 2012
London  Olympic Games .  “We are ganging together, connecting through Twitter,
Facebook, e-mail and broadcasting makeshift social gatherings,”
Sherlock said. “It’s fun to announce on Twitter that there are
going to be a bunch of friends meeting in a particular spot in a
venue and it spontaneously happens. That’s the change in the way
fans experience the game today compared to probably as little as
five years ago.”  Old Approach  Such areas are not new to sports, he said.  “Some of the earliest settings for baseball were nothing
more than standing-room areas just gathered around the field,”
Sherlock said. “These random standing areas have been
fundamentally there since the game started.”  The  Washington Redskins  will carve out standing-room-only
areas at FedEx Field in Landover,  Maryland , eliminating about
4,000 seats.  Initially intended for people who have season tickets to
meet up and socialize, tickets may later be sold to non-season
ticket holders for big events, such as a playoff game, when
demand exceeds the stadium’s 85,000 capacity.  “There seems to be a trend in sports for more areas to
congregate, watch the game, drink beer and a lot of people like
to stand instead of sit,” said  Mitch Gershman , the Redskins’
chief marketing officer.  Packers Renovation  The  Green Bay Packers  are renovating their stadium and plan
to include standing-room areas, and the  St. Louis Rams  recently
proposed renovating their stadium with expanded concourses,
luxury amenities and standing-room party zones. The Rams’ $700
million renovation plan was rejected by the St. Louis Convention
& Visitors Commission, the authority that runs the stadium.  Annette Devereaux, 23, had no interest in watching the
Nationals play the Orioles from her $15 seat at the top of the
park. It was a Friday and, like Miller, Devereaux was meeting
friends. From her viewpoint beyond the outfield wall, she was
much closer to field level than her ticket would have allowed
her in the upper deck.  “There’s no reason to go to my seat,” she said. “My
friends are here. We’ll spend the whole game here.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in Washington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  