-- Statement by the IMF Mission to Germany (Text)
-- B y   A i n h o a   G o y e n e c h e
-- 2012-07-03T14:20:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/statement-by-the-imf-mission-to-germany-text-.html
Following is the text of the mission
statement from the  International Monetary Fund  visit to Germany:  On June 29, 2012, the Executive Board of the International Monetary
Fund (IMF) concluded the Article IV consultation with Germany.  Background
The German economy’s performance has been remarkable despite facing
considerable headwinds. Financial market turbulence and weakening external
demand led to a broad-based contraction of activity in Germany in the last
quarter of 2011, with the notable exception of construction. However,
economic growth appears to have bottomed out and activity picked up in
the first quarter of 2012 fueled by a rebound in external demand and
strong consumption growth.  Several conditions are now in place in Germany for a domestic demand-led
recovery. Employment creation has been robust and unemployment at 5.3
percent is at a post-reunification low. Helped by the reforms implemented
in the 2000s, the labor market is trending towards a lower natural rate
of unemployment, and since 2010, the creation of jobs with full social
security benefits has grown faster than atypical employment. Reflecting
the tighter conditions, wage growth has picked up. While nominal pay rates
increased by about 2 percent in 2011, the normalization of working hours
and significant one-off payments have pushed overall wage growth to near 3
percent. Bond yields for banks and the public sector are at record lows,
while yields for corporate bonds have remained largely flat. Bank lending
rates are lower than elsewhere in  Europe , but the rise in bank lending is
moderate, reflecting still low demand from households and firms. Headline
inflation has fallen to 2.2 percent in April 2012, in line with the
moderation of fuel price increases, while  core inflation  remained low
at 1.4 percent. Medium-term price expectations remain well anchored below
2 percent.  Germany’s current account surplus remained large at 5 ¾ percent of GDP in
2011, in part reflecting a relatively comfortable competitiveness position.
At the same time, private capital outflows have reversed their course as
German banks have withdrawn from Europe’s cross border interbank market and
investment positions in economies under stress are being unwound. The net
private inflows into Germany are reflected in an increase in the
Bundesbank’s claims on the Eurosystem, which had risen to €644 billion by
April (approximately 24 percent of GDP). With strong demand for safe assets,
German government bond yields have declined to record lows.  The strength of German banks has improved but vulnerabilities remain.
While German banks are generally meeting the minimum levels of required
regulatory capital and have ample liquidity, they remain highly leveraged,
dependent on wholesale funding, have low capital quality and profitability,
and some institutions are significantly exposed to the euro area periphery.  Some large international financial institutions have substantial cross-border
operations, and significant counterparty risk exposures related to their
large derivative portfolios. Six larger banks that were called upon to
strengthen their capital position as a result of the latest European
Banking Authority’s (EBA’s)  stress test  are well on their way to meet
EBA requirements (with one bank in the process of being wound down).
The authorities have reintroduced the financial stability support mechanism
(SoFFin II) on a preemptive basis with an overall amount of €480 billion
available through end-2012. Fiscal consolidation is on track. The overall
deficit narrowed to 1 percent of GDP in 2011 (from 4.3 percent in 2010),
reflecting in part the phasing out of one-off financial sector support
measures. The structural balance improved by about 1¼ percent of GDP in
2011, reflecting the withdrawal of stimulus and consolidation measures,
including unwinding of temporary tax and labor market measures, the removal
of some exemptions, and reductions in social spending and administrative
costs. Overall, however, the financial crisis has led to an increase in
public debt from 65 percent of GDP in 2007 to 81 percent in 2011, including
due to financial sector support operations.  Executive Board Assessment
Executive Directors commended  Germany ’s strong macroeconomic management,
which has resulted in a favorable economic performance despite the uncertain
external environment. They noted, however, that the near-term outlook is
clouded by downside risks, including a strong intensification of the
euro-area crisis and potentially lower global growth prospects. The main
priorities in the period ahead will be to manage the transition to domestic
demand-led growth, secure financial stability, and address the challenges
posed by the euro-area crisis in conjunction with European partners.  Directors underscored Germany’s pivotal role in reducing euro-area and
global imbalances. They called on the authorities to continue to work with
European partners to outline clearly and concretely the further efforts
needed to enhance the broader European response to the ongoing crisis.
Furthermore, they urged the authorities to implement policies to spur
domestic demand growth, which will have important beneficial spillover
effects in the euro area and globally.  Directors agreed that a natural rebalancing of the sources of growth will
likely occur in response to tight labor market conditions, ample liquidity
and low  interest rates , and disinflationary pressures in the euro-area
periphery countries. They stressed, however, that structural reforms to
encourage higher investment, remove labor market bottlenecks, and increase
economic efficiency and productivity will be crucial to boost potential
growth and aid the rebalancing process.  Most Directors viewed the current fiscal stance as appropriate, while
allowing automatic stabilizers to operate fully. In the event of a serious
economic downturn, more active fiscal policies within available fiscal
space and consistent with the EU fiscal framework would be needed.
A few Directors were of the view that a fiscal stimulus is warranted to
aid the regional and global economic recovery. Directors encouraged growth-
oriented revenue and expenditure reforms, including measures to enhance tax
and expenditure efficiency.  Directors noted that, despite progress in financial reform and in securing
financial stability, the banking sector remains vulnerable to external
shocks because of high leverage, dependence on wholesale finance, and low
capital quality and profitability. They urged the authorities to step up
the pace of implementation of the 2011 Financial Sector Assessment Program
Update recommendations. In this regard, Directors called for greater efforts
to restructure Landesbanken and strengthen the crisis management framework.
They also welcomed pre-emptive reactivation of the backstop facility for
financial institutions, as well as the steps being taken to establish a
framework for implementing macroprudential policies following European
Union initiatives. Directors noted that broadening the channels of financial
intermediation would facilitate the allocation of resources towards
innovation and new engines of growth.  Directors commended the exceptional performance of the labor market
resulting from past reforms, and welcomed the ongoing efforts to increase
the  labor force  through the higher participation of female and older
workers and the migration of skilled workers. They encouraged further
enhancements to the system of education and training.  SOURCE: International Monetary Fund 