-- State Farm, Nationwide Report Claims From Weekend Storms
-- B y   S t e v e n   N o r t o n
-- 2012-07-03T18:40:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/state-farm-nationwide-report-claims-from-weekend-storms.html
Insurers led by State Farm Mutual
Automobile Insurance Co. reported a combined total of more than
48,000 claims from weekend storms that brought down trees and
left millions without power across 10 U.S. states.  State Farm, the biggest U.S. home and car insurer, had more
than 29,300 auto and property claims in the Midwest and Mid-
Atlantic states, Amy Preddy, a spokeswoman for the Bloomington,
Illinois-based company, said today in a telephone interview.
Policyholder-owned State Farm expects more claims, she said.  “It’s mostly wind damage, so we’re seeing a lot of trees
that are down, trees that fell on a structure or fell on a car,
some shingles off of roofs, then things related to the power
being out,” Anna Bryant, another State Farm spokeswoman, said
yesterday in an interview.  The storm system brought winds of as much as 91 miles an
hour (146 kilometers), rain and lightning, disrupting
electricity for as many as 4.3 million customers from  North
Carolina  to  New Jersey . More than 1.44 million customers
remained  without power  earlier today. Utilities said effects
were equivalent to a hurricane.  Nationwide Mutual Insurance Co. reported more than 9,000
claims in a statement issued today. United Services Automobile
Association received 8,900, Rebecca Hirsch, a company
spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  Farmers Insurance, which has a management relationship with
 Switzerland ’s Zurich Insurance Group AG, had more than 800
property claims as of yesterday, Jerry Davies, a spokesman for
the Los Angeles-based insurer, said in an e-mail.  Carriers haven’t yet estimated insured losses. Allstate
Corp., Liberty Mutual Insurance Co.,  Hartford Financial Services
Group Inc. (HIG) , Chubb Corp.  and Erie Indemnity Co. declined to
provide claims numbers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Norton in  New York  at 
 snorton7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  