-- Statement by the IMF Mission to Luxembourg (Text)
-- B y   A i n h o a   G o y e n e c h e
-- 2012-07-03T15:11:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/statement-by-the-imf-mission-to-luxembourg-text-.html
Following is the text of the mission
statement from the International Monetary Fund visit to Luxembourg:  On June 27, 2012, the Executive Board of the International Monetary
Fund (IMF) concluded the Article IV consultation with Luxembourg.
Background
Economic growth has slowed in 2011 amid the euro area sovereign debt
crisis. Private consumption held up in the first half of the year.
But as the crisis and uncertainty lingered, consumer and manufacturing
business confidence fell and slowed domestic demand. Reflecting the
waning impact of global fuel price increases and postponements in automatic
wage indexation, inflation has eased. In recent months, employment growth
has remained stable but the  unemployment rate  has risen, particularly
long-run joblessness that accounts for about 45 percent of overall
unemployment.
The fiscal deficit fell in 2011, reflecting an over performance in
revenues and continued expenditure restraint. Staff estimates that the
structural deficit, at ½ percent of GDP, was roughly unchanged from 2010.
Public debt has nonetheless almost tripled to about 20 percent of GDP
since the outset of the global financial crisis and is poised to continue
increasing in the face of medium-term fiscal pressures.
The financial sector has endured the crisis and remained stable.
The investment fund industry experienced some valuation losses in 2011
mainly due to euro area related market turbulence, but has largely
recovered, with assets under management surpassing €2 trillion in early
2012. Though bank assets have been slower to recover, Luxembourg-based
banks have generally remained well capitalized, profitable, and liquid.
Their exposures to distressed sovereigns in the European periphery are
generally contained, but cross-border exposures remain high. Cross-border,
mainly intragroup, exposures still account for about ¾ of bank loans.
Reflecting sluggish external demand, economic activity is expected to
further weaken, with growth projected to decline to ½ percent in 2012.
Volatile financial markets and unclear economic prospects will likely
continue to weigh on domestic demand. These factors will also likely reduce
price pressures and reinforce inflation’s declining trend. Risks are tilted
to the downside given ongoing uncertainties in the euro area.
Executive Board Assessment
Executive Directors welcomed the continued stability of Luxembourg’s economy
despite the turbulence in the euro area, but noted that slowing activity and
an uncertain economic outlook call for further steps to limit financial
sector risks, safeguard fiscal sustainability, and boost medium-term growth.
Directors commended the authorities on measures taken to strengthen the
financial sector and implement recommendations from the Financial Stability
Assessment Program update. They supported further participation in EU
supervisory colleges and the development of similar arrangements to promote
cross-border cooperation among supervisors of non-EU banking groups and
investment funds. Directors also advised the authorities to continue
pursuing ahead of EU-level initiatives, if appropriate, regulatory
enhancements not requiring legislation, and to continue encouraging
banks to prepare for tighter liquidity standards under Basel III.
More broadly, Directors saw scope for revisiting institutional arrangements
for regulation and supervision, to better align these with evolving
international standards. Regarding the AML/CFT framework, Directors
noted the authorities’ commitment to undertake the needed measures to
comply with revised FATF standards.
Directors welcomed the support to the economy provided by the 2012 budget.
They urged the authorities to adhere to the budget’s expenditure allocations
but cautioned that reliance on public investment caps could hurt growth in
the long run. Directors generally agreed that automatic stabilizers should
be allowed to operate if downside risks materialized. A few Directors,
however, were not convinced that this would be effective, given low
fiscal multipliers and the need to preserve hard-won credibility.  In light of the expected deterioration in public finances in coming years,
Directors encouraged high-quality consolidation measures supported by a
medium-term fiscal framework. In particular, while welcoming the proposed
pension reforms, they urged the authorities to undertake a more comprehensive
reform of the pension and healthcare systems to ensure fiscal sustainability.  Directors commended the authorities’ efforts to lay the foundation for higher
medium-term growth through a comprehensive reform agenda. They encouraged
nonetheless further steps to improve active labor market policies and the
social safety net with a view to minimizing work disincentives and addressing
market rigidities. Directors also welcomed measures to limit the adverse
competitiveness effects of the wage indexation system, and suggested
revising or eliminating this system in the medium term. Product market
regulations should also be reviewed to foster competition, productivity
growth, and economic diversification.  SOURCE:  International Monetary Fund  