-- Statement by the IMF Mission to The United States (Text)
-- B y   A i n h o a   G o y e n e c h e
-- 2012-07-03T14:00:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/statement-by-the-imf-mission-to-the-united-states-text-.html
Following is the text of the mission
statement from the  International Monetary Fund  visit to the  United States :  The U.S. recovery remains tepid and subject to elevated downside
risks, in light of financial strains in the euro area and uncertainty
over domestic fiscal plans. Against this background, policies need to
decisively tackle medium-term challenges while using the available
room to support the recovery. Specifically, it is critical to ensure
a pace of fiscal adjustment in the short run that is supportive of the
recovery, removing the threat of a very large fiscal adjustment in 2013,
and to adopt a credible medium-term plan restoring fiscal sustainability.  Monetary policy conditions appropriately remain very accommodative, with
some room for further easing should the outlook deteriorate.
Aggressive implementation of the measures proposed by the Administration
to speed up the housing recovery could yield sizable benefits
to the broader economy. Good progress has been made in reforming the U.S.
financial system, but vulnerabilities remain and appropriate resources
should be devoted to complete and implement the new regulatory framework
and monitor systemic risk.  The U.S. recovery remains tepid. After rebounding in the second half
of 2011, growth slowed to around 2 percent in the first half of this
year. Strong headwinds persist on private consumption, as households
continue to deleverage. Residential investment has picked up and house
prices have stabilized recently, but remain at depressed levels.  Job creation  has slowed since early 2012, and the employment-to-population
ratio remains substantially below pre-recession levels. Business fixed
investment also seems to have lost some momentum, despite favorable
financial conditions for the cash-rich corporate sector--large firms can
tap bond markets at low rates and enjoy easy access to bank credit. In
contrast, access to mortgage credit is still tight for households,
notwithstanding historically low rates. Exports have been a bright spot
in the recovery but have recently been hampered by some slowdown in foreign
demand, particularly in  Europe .  Growth is likely to remain modest in the next two years, constrained
by household deleveraging, fiscal restraint, and subpar global demand.
Staff expects growth to be 2 percent in 2012 and about 2¼ percent in 2013.
Consumption is expected to be held back by households continuing to repair
their balance sheets amid a sluggish recovery of  house prices , while weak
growth in U.S. trading partners and the appreciation of the dollar
are likely to weigh on exports. Staff’s central scenario assumes that the
fiscal sector will restrain growth by 1 and 1¼ percentage points in 2012
and 2013, respectively, on account of expiring stimulus measures,
such as the payroll tax relief and investment incentives, accompanied
by spending restraint. With inflation kept in check by the sizable
economic slack, and unemployment projected to decline only slowly,
monetary policy is expected to remain accommodative for an extended
period.  Risks surrounding this forecast are tilted to the downside:
The United States remains vulnerable to contagion from an intensification
of the euro area debt crisis. U.S. financial institutions have limited
direct claims on the euro area periphery, but strong financial linkages
with the core euro area. Financial stresses in the region may affect the
United States mainly via a generalized increase in risk aversion and
lower asset prices (including for U.S. multinational firms with substantial
sales in the euro area) even though safe haven flows would likely
reduce yields on safe assets, notably  U.S. Treasuries . Lower demand in the
euro area would reduce U.S. exports to the region, while U.S. dollar
appreciation on safe haven flows would hurt exports more generally.  On the domestic front, failure to reach an agreement on near-term tax
and spending policies would trigger a severe fiscal tightening in 2013,
threatening the recovery. A fiscal consolidation of around 4 percent of
GDP in 2013 (in line with current law) could reduce annual growth to well
below 1 percent, with negative growth early next year and significant
negative repercussions on an already fragile world economy.  Meanwhile, the federal debt ceiling will need to be raised in early 2013,
Bringing back the risk of heightened uncertainty and financial market
disruption.  There are also upside risks, however.  Capital investment  may turn out to
be stronger than in staff’s forecast (particularly in a less uncertain
environment), given the strong balance sheets of non-financial corporations.
A more positive outlook for the housing market can also be envisaged,
with a faster-than-expected recovery in housing starts associated with
pent-up demand. The recovery could also strengthen if the policy
measures aimed at a faster resolution of the housing crisis gain traction.  Finally, a slower fiscal withdrawal than built in our forecast would help
lift growth.  Against this background, the main policy challenge is to use effectively
the limited policy space to support the recovery in the near term, while
restoring fiscal sustainability with a balanced approach to medium-term
consolidation and completing
financial sector reforms. The recession significantly worsened the state
of U.S. public finances, which were already on an unsustainable path,
and exposed vast gaps in the financial regulatory and supervisory
frameworks, which reforms are gradually addressing.  It is critical to remove the uncertainty created by the “fiscal cliff”
as well as promptly raise the debt ceiling, pursuing a pace of  deficit
reduction  that does not sap the economic recovery. The President’s February
budget proposal envisages a reduction of the federal deficit of 3
percentage points of GDP for next fiscal year, from 8½ to about 5½
percent of GDP. But the implied reduction could be smaller, as the
deficit for the current year will likely be below the budget projection
(by about 1 percentage point of GDP). In staff’s view, even this smaller
reduction would be too rapid, given the weak economy and downside
risks, the limited room for monetary policy to offset the fiscal drag,
and the risk that prolonged economic slack could reduce potential output
through skill erosion and the exit from the labor market of discouraged
workers. Staff’s recommended pace of adjustment would be consistent with
a federal deficit of about 6¼ percent of GDP for FY2013--some ¾ percentage
point of GDP higher than planned in the President’s budget proposal.  This would imply a contraction of the general government structural primary
deficit of around 1 percent of GDP in calendar year 2013.
The composition of spending should be as growth friendly as possible.
In addition to infrastructure spending, training programs to limit skill
mismatches and the risk of entrenching long-term unemployment, and
housing initiatives(measures already proposed by the Administration),
other potential measures include a further extension of emergency
unemployment benefits. At the same time, promptly raising the debt ceiling
would help reduce uncertainty and avoid the risk of losses in confidence
and financial market instability as the deadline approaches.  At the same time, a comprehensive and credible fiscal consolidation plan
is urgently needed. Policymakers should agree as early as possible
on a comprehensive set of measures to stabilize the public debt ratio by
mid-decade and subsequently put it firmly on a downward path.  This would enhance room for fiscal policy maneuver in the near term,
as well as limit the possibility of a future spike in risk premia on
U.S. sovereign debt, which would be extremely damaging especially if it
were to occur before the recovery became entrenched. To achieve this
objective, policymakers could target a medium-term primary surplus of
at least 1 percent of GDP, which would stabilize the debt ratio even
factoring in a significant rebound of  interest rates . In this context,
the deep automatic spending cuts envisaged under the Budget Control
Act (the so-called “sequester”) should be replaced with specific,
back-loaded measures generating an equal amount of savings.  Given the size of the  budget deficit , age-related spending pressures,
and the relatively low tax ratio, this medium-term consolidation effort
will need to rely both on higher revenues and reforms to slow the growth
of entitlement spending.  With discretionary spending capped and defense outlays projected to
fall significantly, policymakers’ attention must shift to entitlements
such as pension and health benefits, the key driver of spending growth.
The cost-saving provisions of the health care reform should be implemented
fully and additional saving measures could be phased in gradually.  The Social Security imbalances warrant an early reform, including a modest
increase in the  retirement age , a more progressive benefit structure,
and higher contributions.  Revenues--which are low relative to GDP compared to other advanced
economies--could be raised through a menu of options, including lower
tax expenditures (which amount to some 7 percent of GDP and
disproportionately benefit high-income taxpayers) the introduction of
a VAT and carbon taxes, and higher marginal personal income tax
rates. There is also room for improving the structure of corporate
taxation, including by base-broadening, lowering marginal rates, and
achieving a more efficient tax treatment of multinational enterprises.  Monetary policy conditions appropriately remain very accommodative,
with room for further easing should the outlook deteriorate.
We welcome the  Federal Reserve ’s recent decision to further extend
the maturity of its securities holdings, which should keep downward
pressure on long-term interest rates. The innovative tools adopted by
the Fed over the past year have contributed to lowering yields on
 Treasury securities  and maintaining a tight spread between agency
MBS and Treasury bond yields. Should the outlook worsen, further easing
may be considered. In this regard, given the relatively high share of
the Fed’s holdings of Treasury securities at longer maturities and the
importance of the housing sector for the outlook, additional net MBS
purchases could be considered. Their effectiveness in supporting growth
would be enhanced if policy actions and proposals to expand access to
mortgage refinancing were to gain further traction. Easy monetary
policy in the United States (as in other advanced economies) may
encourage portfolio outflows, particularly to economies with favorable
growth prospects and open capital accounts, potentially creating
challenges for their macroeconomic management. However, these effects
are likely tempered in the current unsettled external environment,
characterized by high  risk aversion  and safe-haven flows to the
United States. Furthermore, supporting U.S. growth would help strengthen
the global economy at a particularly difficult juncture.  The current account deficit has declined after the crisis, but the
external position remains weaker than justified by fundamentals and
desired policies, implying a modest dollar overvaluation.  In our baseline, the current account deficit is expected to widen
modestly in the next few years as higher imports with strengthening
domestic demand are partially offset by lower  oil prices , leading to
a further deterioration in the U.S. net international investment position.
Over the medium term, fiscal consolidation aiming for a primary surplus
of at least 1 percent of GDP accompanied by some depreciation of the
dollar and adjustment in partner countries’ policies would allow for
a strengthening of the current account balance of some 1-2 percent of GDP,
consistent with external stability and full employment.  Staff welcomes the authorities’ renewed efforts to remove the distortions
that prevent a faster resolution of the housing crisis.
The authorities have responded to the persistent weakness in the housing
market by enacting changes to their existing housing support
programs--including the expansion of the mortgage modification and
principal reduction program and the easing of some of the frictions in
the refinancing program. Staff supports the timely and aggressive
implementation of these measures, including the participation of the
Government-Sponsored Enterprises in the principal reduction program.  However, in light of the importance of the housing market in securing the
economic recovery and the downside risks to the outlook, additional steps
could be taken to strengthen the housing recovery. These include measures
to facilitate the conversion of foreclosed properties into rental units
and supporting access to refinancing on a larger scale, in line with
the Administration’s proposals, which would also strengthen the positive
impact of lower interest rates on aggregate demand. Consideration should
also be given to allowing mortgages on principal residences to be modified
in personal bankruptcy without secured creditors’ consent (cram-downs).  Policies are also needed to reduce the risk that long-term unemployment
could morph into higher structural unemployment and reduce potential output.
While staff views most of the increase in unemployment as reflecting
cyclical factors, the long-term  unemployment rate  is significantly above
levels seen in previous recessions and has declined relatively little since
the start of the recovery. Elevated long-term unemployment raises the
risk of a loss of human capital and attachment to the  labor force , and
could lead to a lower participation rate. Active labor market policies,
such as training and support for job search, have been shown to improve
the employment prospects of the long-term unemployed and thus should be
adequately funded. Temporary tax incentives to expand labor demand--
particularly if targeted toward the long-term unemployed--are also desirable.  There has been good progress over the past year in implementing the
Dodd-Frank Act and global financial reforms, although more remains to
be done to increase the resilience of the U.S. financial system.  Progress included the introduction of enhanced capital standards under
rules closely aligned with Basel 2.5 proposed for January 2013; the
development of proposed rules to implement Basel III capital standards
and strengthen other components of U.S. capital standards; the issuing of
final rules on the submission of resolution plans (“living wills”) for
systemically important financial institutions (SIFIs); the set up of the
orderly liquidation authority; and the issuance of a final rule and
interpretative guidance detailing a process and analytical framework
for the designation of nonbank SIFIs for enhanced supervision and
prudential standards. Also, the United States is among the jurisdictions
that are closest to implementing new rules on centralized clearing of over-the
counter derivatives, in line with G-20 commitments. Areas where further
progress is needed include:
Regulation of the shadow banking system: Given the industry’s size,
prominence in short-term funding markets, and susceptibility to runs,
strengthening the regulation of Money Market  Mutual Funds  is critical,
especially as the emergency backstop facility used during the financial
crisis is no longer available. Options include the adoption of floating
net asset values,  capital requirements , and limits to redemption.
Another important task is to reduce the systemic risk stemming from the
dependence of the triparty repo market on intraday liquidity provided by
the clearing banks. Finally, the actual designation of nonbank SIFIs and
finalization of the modalities for their enhanced supervision would also
contribute to curbing systemic risk.  Volcker rule. A ban on proprietary trading by banks should in principle
reduce systemic risk. In drafting the final rule, regulators need to be
mindful that its effectiveness could be hindered by exemptions and the
migration of risky activities outside of the regulatory perimeter.
At the same time, it is important to minimize the potential adverse
spillovers of the rule on foreign entities and markets as well as
market liquidity more generally.  Housing finance: Removing the uncertainty related to the implementation
of the riskretention provision of the Dodd-Frank Act may help a gradual
recovery of private securitization and ease mortgage market conditions.
Also, there is a need to fully articulate a medium-term strategy to reduce
the role of the GSEs, building on the 2011 White Paper, so as to encourage
a gradual shift in the mortgage market towards private institutions.
The reform must strike a delicate balance between providing an appropriate
level of support to the housing market--with contingent liabilities
explicitly recognized--and discouraging another cycle of overinvestment.  Funding for regulatory agencies. Some agencies continue to experience
budgetary constraints that limit their ability to meet the deadlines
associated with the domestic and international reforms, and may hinder
their ability to effectively monitor financial institutions and markets
once the new regulations come into force. We view the lifting of these
constraints as a high priority.  A multilateral approach to economic policy management remains critical
for systemic countries such as the United States, whose policy actions
have significant cross-border effects. In particular, the fiscal
consolidation plan would be consistent with the rebalancing of global
demand and reduction of global imbalances--together with efforts to
increase domestic demand in surplus countries, as highlighted in the
G-20 Mutual Assessment Process. At the same time, striking the right
balance between fiscal consolidation and macroeconomic policy support
would benefit the rest of the world, as it would avoid the
risk of a spike in U.S. interest rates in the medium term and an abrupt
decline in demand for economies with significant trade linkages with the
United States in the near term. Given the size of cross-border financial
linkages, further progress in implementing financial reforms
coordinated with other jurisdictions in order to closely align key
regulations and standards would be globally beneficial, and reduce the
scope for regulatory arbitrage.  Staff welcomes the authorities’ continued commitment to trade
Liberalization and market access, in support of growth and expanded
job opportunities. Staff noted the authorities’ intention to pursue
opportunities for ambitious trade agreements in the context of
the Trans-Pacific Partnership and with other trading partners, and
encouraged them to develop fresh approaches to furthering negotiations
on the multilateral trade agenda. Staff commends the authorities’
efforts to resist protectionist pressures in a challenging global
environment, and to ensure continued consistency of domestic legislation
and practices with WTO principles and international obligations.  SOURCE: International Monetary Fund 