-- Stocks Pessimism Posts Longest Streak Since 2011 Market Bottom
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2012-07-03T04:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/stocks-pessimism-posts-longest-streak-since-2011-market-bottom.html
Bearish sentiment  in a survey of
individual investors has surpassed the historical average for
the longest stretch since October, when stocks began a rally
that lifted the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  24 percent.  A poll by the  American Association  of Individual Investors
showed 44.4 percent of  respondents  say American stocks will fall
over the next six months. That’s the eighth consecutive week
that pessimism stayed above the 25-year average of 30 percent.  Concern Europe’s debt crisis will deepen and the recovery
weaken have erased as much as $1.8 trillion from U.S. equities
since March. The last time the proportion of bears topped the
average for this long was in the 14 weeks through Oct. 20, 2011,
just after the S&P 500  bottomed  at 1,099.23. The benchmark
measure for U.S. stocks went on to surge as much as 29 percent,
reaching a four-year high of 1,419.04 on April 2.  “Individual investors tend to get in when the markets are
red hot and they tend to get out when the markets are at the
bottom,” Robert Carey, who helps oversee $53 billion as chief
investment officer of Wheaton, Illinois-based First Trust
Portfolios, said in a telephone interview. “It’s been one
series of issues after another, but, ultimately, fundamentals
will weigh out and overwhelm any sentiment that people have.”  The S&P 500’s  price-earnings ratio  slid to a two-year low
of 11.9 times annual profit on Oct. 3 before the level of
bearishness by individual investors climbed above its historical
average. The multiple has since rebounded 16 percent and is
trading at 13.8 times profits in the past year.  Record High  The reading reached an all-time high of 70.3 percent on
March 5, 2009, four days before the S&P 500 bottomed at a 12-
year low of 676.53. The benchmark stocks index has since surged
102 percent as corporate profits exceeded  analysts’ estimates 
and the  Federal Reserve  carried out two rounds of bond purchases
known as quantitative easing.  That shows pessimism may increase before it becomes a
signal to buy, according to Jeffrey Coons, president of Manning
& Napier Advisors Inc. in Fairport,  New York , which manages $44
billion.  “We’re not in an extreme environment of fear where you
have readings you could look at in a contrarian way,” Coons
said in a phone interview. “This low level of bullishness is
another example of that pent-up demand for stocks. But we don’t
really have the types of extremes that could give you that
catalyst for fear reversal.”  ‘Three Corrections’  The AAII’s weekly survey showed 28.7 percent of respondents
were  bullish on equities  in the week ended June 27, the 13th
consecutive time that optimism stayed below its historical
average of 39 percent. The survey, which had 293 participants,
has been conducted since July 1987.  The last time the percent of bulls was below average for
this long was in the 14 weeks from December 2007 through March
2008. The  S&P 500  went on to lose 38 percent that year.  “We’ve had three corrections since the second quarter of
2010, and each time we’ve asked whether we’re going to relive
2008 and it’s never happened,” Carey said. “It’s not that we
can’t have more selling and short-term downdrafts, but for
investors with a longer-term horizon, there are a lot of
bargains in the market.”  Respondents in the AAII survey said the thing most likely
to change their outlook on stocks would be resolution to the
European sovereign debt crisis. Other events that would
potentially damp pessimism included stronger U.S. economic
growth and Congress addressing the so-called fiscal cliff, or
the scheduled expiration of tax cuts and implementation of
spending cuts at the end of this year.  Negative Catalysts  Potential negative catalysts were  Europe ’s crisis worsening
and slower expansion in either the U.S. or  China , the world’s
two largest economies, the survey showed.  While bearish sentiment by individual investors has
climbed, Wall Street strategists left their forecasts untouched
for seven straight weeks through June 27. The average projection
for the benchmark stocks measure at the end of this year slipped
by 0.5 percent to 1,391 from the prior week, according to the
average projection of 13 forecasters surveyed by Bloomberg on
July 2.  Investors should bet on companies that have sales around
the world, according to Kate Moore, the New York-based senior
global equity strategist at Bank of America Corp. She listed
 Priceline.com Inc. (PCLN) ,  Cairn Energy Plc (CNE)  and  Bank of China Ltd. (3988)  as
some of the firm’s recommended stocks.  “Investors are incredibly reluctant to take equity risk,”
Moore said in a television interview on July 28 on Bloomberg
Television’s “In the Loop” with  Deirdre Bolton . “You have to
be able to be an investor and not a trader, because the trading
environment is going to be very rough for the next couple of
weeks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  