-- Swaps Index Traded by London Whale Shrinks as JPMorgan Unwinds
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2012-07-03T22:35:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/swaps-index-traded-by-london-whale-shrinks-as-jpmorgan-unwinds.html
Positions in the  credit derivatives 
index said to contribute to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s $2 billion
loss fell last week to the lowest in five months as the bank and
 hedge funds  trading against it unwind bets.  The net  amount  of credit protection bought or sold through
Series 9 of the Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index
fell 4.3 percent to $118.7 billion in the week ended June 29,
the least outstanding since the period ended Jan. 27, according
to the Depository Trust & Clearing Corp. The so-called net
notional outstanding surged an unprecedented 67 percent to $150
billion in the 17 weeks ended April 27 as JPMorgan trader Bruno Iksil was said to have amassed a position in the index so large
it distorted the market, earning him the nickname the  London 
Whale.  JPMorgan is seeking to stem losses from trades by its chief
investment office in London, where Iksil managed a portfolio of
credit derivatives, which was first reported by Bloomberg News
on April 5. The CIO’s strategy to reduce risks from hedges
backfired and left the bank with even bigger and harder-to-
manage exposures, Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  said last
month before the Senate Banking Committee.  The index tracks credit swaps tied to 121 companies, all of
which were investment grade more than four years ago, including
now junk-rated bond guarantor MBIA Insurance Corp. and mortgage
insurer Radian Group Inc.  Biggest Winner  At the same time Iksil was said to have been building
positions, hedge funds and other market participants were taking
the opposite bets, people familiar with the trades said at the
time.  Andrew Feldstein, a former JPMorgan executive who helped
the company create the credit-derivatives market, was among fund
managers who bet against  the bank , before helping it unwind more
than $20 billion of trades. BlueMountain Capital Management LLC
stands to make as much as $300 million, said market participants
familiar with the transactions.  The trades, first reported by Bloomberg News on June 20,
are among those that may have helped reduce the bank’s exposure
to the index by more than half, according to estimates from
market participants familiar with trading activity.  Saba Capital Management LP, Hutchin Hill Capital LP, and
BlueCrest Capital Management LLP also profited from the
dislocations, according to people familiar with the trades. Saba
and Hutchin Hill have closed out their positions.  Charles Peabody, an analyst with Portales Partners LLC in
 New York , estimated the amount has grown to between $4 billion
and $5 billion. The company is scheduled to disclose details
about its losses and its progress unwinding the trades when it
reports earnings on July 13.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  