-- Swiss Stocks Climb as Swiss Re, Credit Suisse Sell Assets
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2012-07-03T15:58:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/swiss-stocks-climb-as-swiss-re-credit-suisse-sell-assets.html
Swiss stocks  advanced for a third
day, extending a two-month high, as  Swiss Re (SREN)  Ltd. and  Credit
Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  sold assets and a report showed factory orders
increased in the U.S.  Swiss Re rose 1.7 percent after agreeing to sell Swiss Re
Private Equity Partners AG to BlackRock Inc. Credit Suisse, the
second-biggest Swiss lender, added 2.3 percent as the bank was
said to sell a 7 percent stake in Aberdeen Asset Management Plc.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  climbed 1.4 percent to 6,194.08 at
the close in Zurich, the highest since April 20. The gauge has
rallied 4.3 percent this year as the  European Central Bank 
disbursed 1 trillion euros ($1.26 trillion) to euro-area
financial companies and the region’s leaders opened the door to
directly recapitalizing lenders using the European Stability
Mechanism. The broader Swiss Performance Index also gained 1.4
percent today.  “Some investors have very strong expectations for the
European central Bank and the  Federal Reserve  to issue more
monetary measures and nobody wants to be short before the ECB
meeting this week,” said Witold Bahrke, a senior strategist at
PFA Pension A/S in Copenhagen, where he helps oversee $55
billion. “Macroeconomic data has not been bad enough to warrant
more unconventional monetary stimulus just yet, but we’re very
close to the point where more bad news will actually be good
news for equity investors.”  Interest Rates  The ECB and the  Bank of England  announce interest-rate
decisions on July 5. ECB officials will lower their  benchmark
rate  by 25 basis points to a record low 0.75 percent, according
to the  median forecast  in a Bloomberg survey of 62 economists.
Five predict a cut of 50 basis points and 11 foresee no change.  The People’s Bank of  China  may cut lenders’ reserve
requirements to increase liquidity in the banking system,
according to a commentary on the front page of today’s China
Securities Journal, which is published by the official Xinhua
News Agency. The central bank announced a cut to  interest rates 
on June 7, a day after the newspaper published a commentary
urging the move.  In the U.S., a Commerce Department report showed that
orders to factories in the world’s largest economy increased 0.7
percent in May. That exceeded the median forecast of 52
economists in a Bloomberg survey for a 0.1 percent gain. The
measure dropped for two consecutive months in March and April
for the first time in more than three years.  The volume of shares changing hands in companies listed on
the SMI was 16 percent lower than the average of the last 30
days, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Swiss Re  Swiss Re, the world’s second-biggest reinsurer, rose 1.7
percent to 61.10 francs. BlackRock said it will buy Swiss Re’s
$7.5 billion European private equity and infrastructure fund of
funds unit for an undisclosed amount.  Swiss Life Holding AG (SLHN) ,  Switzerland ’s largest life insurer,
advanced 3.3 percent to 93.05 francs, a two-month high.  Credit Suisse advanced 2.3 percent to 17.70 francs as two
people with knowledge of the transaction said the bank was
selling a 7 percent stake in Aberdeen Asset Management for as
much as 205 million pounds ($322 million).  Adecco SA (ADEN) , the biggest supplier of temporary workers,
advanced 2.9 percent to 43.28 francs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  