-- Switzerland, Sweden Are World’s Most Innovative Countries
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n
-- 2012-07-03T07:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/switzerland-sweden-are-world-s-most-innovative-countries.html
Switzerland, Sweden and  Singapore  are
the most innovative countries in the world, according to a study
by the United Nations World Intellectual Property Organization
and Insead that found a wide gap between rich and poor nations.  Innovation is an important engine of growth and new jobs,
the Global Innovation Index 2012, which ranked 141 economies,
showed. The index considered institutions, human capital and
research, infrastructure and market and business sophistication
as well as as the results of innovation such as patents and 
software in determining how countries fared.  “Policies to promote innovation are critical to the debate
on spurring sustainable economic growth,” WIPO Director General
Francis Gurry said in a statement from Geneva. “The downward
pressure on investment in innovation exerted by the current
crisis must be resisted. Otherwise we risk durable damage to
countries’ productive capacities. This is the time for forward-
looking policies to lay the foundations for future prosperity.”  Finland ranked fourth, followed by the U.K., the
Netherlands, Denmark,  Hong Kong , Ireland and the U.S.  Canada, which came in at No. 8 last year, is the only
economy exiting the top 10 while the U.S. fell from seventh
place due to shortfalls in areas such as education and human
resources.  Brazil , Russia India and  China , the four largest  emerging
markets  known as BRICs, need to invest further in their
innovation capabilities, according to today’s report. While
China ranks fifth in terms of knowledge and technology outputs,
both it and India face weaknesses in their innovation
infrastructure and environment, the study indicated. Brazil’s
ranking dropped the most among the BRIC nations.  “Innovation is becoming the spearhead of competition -- at
a regional level, on a national level and for companies,” said
 Alcatel-Lucent SA (ALU)  Chief Executive Officer Ben Verwaayen. “How
to deal with that challenge will determine the destiny of
competiveness for all players.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  