-- U.K. Mortgage Lending Declines, Construction Shrinks: Economy
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2012-07-03T10:41:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/u-k-mortgage-lending-declines-construction-shrinks-economy.html
U.K.  mortgage approvals  fell in May
and construction shrank at the fastest rate in 2 1/2 years in
June, adding to signs the housing market is slowing amid growing
concern over the economic outlook.  Lenders granted 51,098 loans to buy homes, compared with
51,627 the previous month, the  Bank of England  said today in
 London . A gauge of building output based on a survey fell to
48.2 from 54.4 in May, a separate report by Markit and the
 Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply  showed.  The figures add to the case for Bank of England policy
makers to increase stimulus when they meet this week. An index
yesterday showed factory output shrank for a second month in
June, suggesting the economy remains mired in recession.
Demand for homes has fallen as  Europe ’s debt turmoil casts a
shadow over Britain’s economic prospects and banks curb
credit, with Nationwide Building Society reporting last week
that  house prices  fell 0.6 percent between May and June.  “Household lending has been depressed for quite a long
time and there’s no evidence of improvement on the corporate
side,” said  David Tinsley , an economist at BNP Paribas SA in
London and a former central bank official.  Economic growth  in
the second quarter “could well be negative. It would be very
strange if the Bank of England did nothing this week.”  Economists predicted that mortgage approvals would drop to
50,000, based on the median forecast of 16 economists in
Bloomberg survey. Approvals are still running at half the
monthly average seen in the decade to 2007, before the financial
crisis struck.  Credit Program  The Bank of England and the Treasury will announce within
weeks details of a new program to get the flow of credit moving
again. A central bank survey taken in May showed households and
companies face significantly tighter borrowing terms in the
third quarter as lenders pass on higher funding costs.  Net mortgage lending was 563 million pounds ($883 million),
down from 1.05 billion pounds in April and the lowest since
September last year. Net  consumer credit  rose to 732 million
pounds from 379 million pounds in April. Net borrowing on credit
cards rose by just 70 million pounds.  In a separate report, the central bank said M4  money supply 
fell 0.1 percent in May from the previous month and 4.1 from a
year earlier.  The Bank of England will probably raise its target for
 asset purchases by  50 billion pounds to 375 billion pounds,
according to the median estimate of 41 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey. Economists in a separate poll forecast officials
will leave the benchmark rate at a record low of 0.5 percent.
The bank will announce the decision at noon in London on July 5.  In  Australia  today, the central bank kept  interest
rates  unchanged at a 2 1/2-year low, saying its recent
reductions in borrowing costs will help the economy weather a
more subdued global outlook.  Elsewhere in the Asia-Pacific region,  China ’s non-
manufacturing industries expanded at a faster pace in June as
the  property market  and new orders picked up, according to the
National Bureau of Statistics and China Federation of Logistics
and Purchasing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  