-- U.K. Stocks Gain on China Speculation; Barclays Declines
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2012-07-03T16:12:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/u-k-stocks-climb-on-china-stimulus-speculation.html
U.K. stocks  climbed for a third day,
led by mining companies, amid speculation that  China  will cut
banks’ reserve requirements to spur growth in the world’s
second-largest economy.  Vedanta Resources Plc led metal producers higher, rallying
6.1 percent, after Morgan Stanley recommended the shares.
Meggitt Plc rose after UBS AG upgraded the engineering company.
 Barclays Plc (BARC)  erased gains in the final hour of trading as the
lender’s top three executives resigned amid a deepening dispute
with the  Bank of England .  The  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  gained 47.09, or 0.8 percent, to
5,687.73 at the close in  London . The gauge jumped to its highest
level in eight weeks yesterday as measures of manufacturing from
China to the U.K. and the euro area exceeded economists’
forecasts. The broader FTSE All-Share Index also advanced 0.8
percent today.  “Support is coming once again out of China today,” said
Markus Huber, head of German sales trading at ETX Capital in
London. “Expectations are continuing to grow that there will be
more monetary stimulus in the near future.”  The volume of shares traded on the FTSE 100 companies was
15 percent lower than the average of the last 30 days, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Ireland’s ISEQ Index gained 0.9 percent today. The sixth
day of increase marked the gauge’s longest rally this year as
the government announced plans to sell government debt for the
first time since September 2010.  China Stimulus  Mining companies  climbed with copper as the China
Securities Journal, a newspaper sponsored by the official Xinhua
News Agency, said the time is ripe for China to cut banks’
reserve requirements as slowing inflation gives more room for
easing to stabilize growth.  Separately, Shanghai Securities News reported on its
website that China may cut reserve requirement ratio three more
times in 2012, each by 0.5 percent. The newspaper cited a
development report released by the China Banking Association.  Vedanta Resources (VED)  rallied 6.1 percent to 961 pence as
Morgan Stanley resumed its overweight recommendation for the
copper producer, the equivalent of a buy rating. Analysts cited
the company’s “strong growth pipeline” and ongoing talks on
minority buyouts.  Commodity Supply  Morgan Stanley also said copper, iron-ore and gold prices
will be supported by limited supply conditions, relatively
resilient demand and potential upside from rising Chinese
consumption in the second half.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s largest mining company,
gained 2.2 percent to 1,870 pence and Rio Tinto Group increased
3.2 percent to 3,157 pence as Morgan Stanley also reiterated its
overweight recommendation for both companies.  Meggitt advanced 1.9 percent to 395.6 pence after UBS
upgraded the shares to buy from neutral saying the aerospace
engineering company may be a takeover candidate.  Barclays erased gains in the final hour of trading, falling
0.8 percent to 167.05 pence. The shares climbed as much as 4.8
percent after  Bob Diamond  announced his resignation as chief
executive officer amid a deepening dispute with the Bank of
England about whether the central bank pushed the lender to
submit artificially low Libor rates during the financial crisis.  Jerry Del Missier quit as chief operating officer and
Chairman Marcus Agius will also leave once he has found a
replacement for Diamond, who has worked at the bank for the past
16 years.  Libor Probe  The three are leaving after regulators fined the bank a
record 290 million pounds ($455 million) for attempting to rig
the London Interbank-Offered Rate. Bank of England Governor
 Mervyn King  and Financial Services Authority Chairman  Adair
Turner  intervened to force Diamond out, the British Broadcasting
Corp. reported.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc slid 1.1 percent to 216.5
pence, Lloyds Banking Group Plc gained 1 percent to 31.81 pence
and ICAP Plc fell 1.5 percent to 334.8 pence.  RBS, ICAP and Lloyds are among financial companies that are
also being investigated by regulators. A total of 18 banks are
surveyed.  Aberdeen Asset Management Plc (ADN)  fell 3.7 percent to 255 pence
as Credit Suisse Group AG was said to sell part of its stake in
the Scottish  fund manager  to raise as much as 205 million pounds
($322 million), according to two people with knowledge of the
transaction.  Credit Suisse placed as many as 80.4 million shares for 245
pence to 255 pence each, a discount of as much as 7.4 percent to
the closing price today, said the people who asked not be
identified because the process is private.  Elsewhere, Talvivaara Mining Co. sank 13 percent to 148.6
pence after the Finnish nickel miner said it can no longer meet
this year’s output target and warned second-quarter earnings
will be weakened by lower metal prices.  Avocet Mining Plc (AVM)  dropped 7.6 percent to 71.25 pence. The
shares have sunk 53 percent in the last three days as the
company cut its 2012 gold-production forecast.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  