-- U.S. Midwest, Northeast May Cool Next Week as Heat Breaks
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-07-03T12:35:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/u-s-midwest-northeast-may-cool-next-week-as-heat-breaks.html
The U.S. Northeast and Great Lakes
region, including  Chicago , may return to more seasonal
temperatures starting next week while heat takes hold in the
Pacific Northwest.  Temperatures in the coastal Northwest are expected to rise
at least 5 to 7 degrees Fahrenheit (2.8 to 3.9 Celsius) above
normal from July 8 to July 12 while the East cools from the
current heat wave, according to  MDA EarthSat Weather .  “This shift will bring a notable warming trend to the
Northwest, an area that has struggled to warm on a consistent
basis over the past several months,” said MDA, based in
Gaithersburg,  Maryland .  Temperatures may drop to the low 80s in New York and upper
80s in  Washington  next week, according to AccuWeather Inc. in
 State College , Pennsylvania.  Cooler weather in the large cities along the East Coast may
curb demand for electricity for air conditioning, pushing down
prices on spot and futures markets.  Power plants  account for 36
percent of U.S. natural gas demand.  Heat will bear down on the central U.S. from Missouri to
the mid-Atlantic states until the weekend, said  Matt Rogers ,
president of Commodity Weather Group LLC in Bethesda, Maryland.  “We should see lots more 100-degree readings, especially
in the southern Midwest, Plains and interior Deep South,”
Rogers said. “But cities like Chicago and into the mid-Atlantic
should also pick up a few more century readings.”  Records Set  Through yesterday, 295 daily high temperature records were
tied or broken across the U.S. so far this month, according to
the  National Climatic Data Center  in Asheville, North Carolina.  High temperatures in Chicago may reach 101 and rise above
100 every day until week’s end.  St. Louis  is also expected to
have highs above 100 through the rest of the week.  In Washington, temperatures are forecast to be in the 90s
for the rest of the week, peaking at 99 this weekend, according
to the  National Weather Service . New York may reach 90 today and
have highs in the 90s for the remainder of the week.  Temperatures may reach 91 in Toronto and 86 in Montreal,
according to Environment Canada.  New York, Chicago, Washington, Richmond, Atlanta and Boston
all have a chance of thunderstorms for the night of the July
Fourth holiday.  For July 10, the normal average temperature in  New York
City  is 77, according to MDA. It’s 73 in Boston; 80 in
Washington; 80 in Atlanta; 75 in Chicago; 84 in Houston; 65 in
Seattle and 74 in Burbank, California.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  