-- UCITS-Depositary, Glaxo’s $3 Billion, Libor: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-07-03T12:13:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/ucits-depositary-rules-glaxo-s-3-billion-libor-compliance.html
The European Union will unveil
tougher rules for banks that safeguard investment funds’ assets
as part of a push to prevent a fraud similar to the Ponzi scheme
orchestrated by  Bernard Madoff .  The  European Commission , the 27-nation EU’s executive arm,
will publish the measures today in a package of draft laws on
retail financial services, according to  a statement  on the
authority’s website. The proposals will include pay rules for
managers of EU-regulated funds known as UCITS.  The EU’s proposal will set how banks and other depositary
institutions should carry out their safe-keeping and oversight
duties, as well as establishing common rules on liability. It
would also ensure that national regulators have the power to
impose fines and other sanctions on funds and depositaries that
break the rules.  Madoff, 74, pleaded guilty in 2009 to orchestrating what
prosecutors called the biggest Ponzi scheme in history and is
serving a 150-year sentence in U.S. federal prison. The fall-out
of the fraud included the liquidation of four UCITS funds, a
type of investment vehicle targeted at retail investors that is
allowed to operate across the EU.  Luxembourg has been the center of more than 100 lawsuits
over Madoff-related funds. The country is the second-largest
mutual fund market after the U.S.  The plans must be approved by national governments and by
lawmakers in the European Parliament before they can enter into
force.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  Libor Changes May Boost Costs for Borrowers, Credit Suisse Says  Millions of households and businesses may pay more to
borrow under proposed changes to Libor, the benchmark interest
rate at least a dozen banks are being investigated for
manipulating,  Credit Suisse AG (CSGN)  analysts said.  U.K. regulators are working on plans to overhaul the London
interbank offered rate, the reference rate for $500 trillion of
contracts from mortgages to student loans.  Changes such as increasing the number of banks that
contribute to Libor would add 15 basis points to the interest
payments on financial contracts that reference Libor, Credit
Suisse analysts led by  Michael Chang  said in a note to clients.  Barclays, the U.K.’s second-largest lender, was fined a
record $451 million and its top executives agreed to forgo
bonuses after investigators found traders and senior managers
“systematically” tried to rig the Libor and Euribor, its
equivalent in euros.  The  British Bankers’ Association , which has overseen Libor
for 26 years, is working with the government and the U.K.
regulator to restore credibility to the rate and eliminate the
likelihood of manipulation. Options include increasing the
number of banks on the panel to more than 30, the Credit Suisse
analysts said. That would push the rate higher because smaller,
less creditworthy banks would contribute to the rate for the
first time, they said.  Another option would be to base the rate on actual trades,
although that remains “highly unlikely,” the analysts said,
because some banks rarely borrow cash at some maturities.  For more, click here.  Finra Lets Parties Bypass Arbitration Rules Under Pilot Program  The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, which oversees
brokerages and exchange markets in the U.S., has begun a pilot
program that lets parties bypass “certain Finra arbitration
rules,” according to a statement on its website.  The pilot program, which is voluntary, started yesterday,
Finra said in the statement. It is aimed at cases involving
claims of $10 million or more. To be eligible, parties must pay
for any additional program costs and must be represented by
counsel, according to the  statement .  U.K. Banks Limit Fees on Structured Products Before FSA Rules  U.K. banks are withdrawing commission payments to
independent financial advisers that are typically included in
structured products sales agreements before new rules forbidding
the practice.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  offered four securities tied to the
performance of the  FTSE 100 index  last week that will be
distributed via advisers and investors were given the choice to
pay for the advice via a separate fee or have commission
included in the price of buying the products, according to an
offer document.  The so-called autocall notes come six months before the
Financial Services Authority’s Retail Distribution Review is due
to be implemented, affecting how advisers make and disclose
charges. A degree of uncertainty remains about how fees will be
paid, even though the FSA’s drive for greater transparency on
pricing is not in dispute, said  Jamie Smith , chairman of the
U.K. Structured Products Association.  Clare Murphy-McGreevey, a spokeswoman for the FSA in London
said following a consultation with the market earlier this year,
investors can pay adviser charges directly or can agree that an
adviser charge can be deducted from the investment.  Special Section: Libor Probe  Diamond Quits Barclays Amid Libor-Manipulation Scandal  Robert Diamond , the architect of Barclays Plc’s investment
banking expansion, stepped down as chief executive officer after
the bank admitted to rigging global interest rates. Mark Barton
and Caroline Hyde report on Bloomberg Television’s
“Countdown.”  This was a turnabout from the position taken yesterday, in
which he had defied demands that he step down.  For the video, click here.  Yesterday, Diamond defied pressure to quit after the bank
was fined for rigging interest rates, saying he has the “full
support” of directors.  Diamond had written in a letter to employees yesterday that
the rate-rigging events were not representative of the bank’s
culture and it is his responsibility to “get to the bottom of
that and resolve it.”  He made the comments after Marcus Agius resigned as
chairman in a bid to shield Diamond after the bank was fined a
record 290 million pounds ($451 million). British lawmakers were
pushing for his resignation after U.K. and U.S. regulators found
the lender “systematically” attempted to rig the London and
euro interbank offered rates for profit.  Diamond has been
called to appear before British lawmakers on the Treasury Select
Committee on July 4 and Agius the day after.  Michael Rake, who was named deputy chairman, will oversee
an inquiry into the bank’s business practices, the lender said
yesterday.  Diamond had pledged to bolster the controls surrounding the
firm’s Libor submissions and take “appropriate action” against
those involved with rigging the benchmark interest rate. That
includes clawing back compensation and asking people to resign,
he said.  For more, click here.  Separately, investigations into banks’ attempted
manipulation of Libor are at various stages “reflecting the
cooperation of firms and their willingness to settle,”  Adair
Turner , chairman of the U.K. Financial Services Authority, said
today in London. In addition, Prime Minister David Cameron
yesterday announced a parliamentary inquiry into the U.K.
banking industry after Barclays Plc was fined and Agius
resigned.  Cameron set the inquiry a year-end deadline for reporting,
so that its recommendations can be incorporated into the bill on
overhauling bank regulation that will be submitted to Parliament
in January.  For more, click here.  Turner said in a speech today that banks must purge a
culture of “cynical entitlement” after the Libor scandal that
led to Diamond’s Turner’s resignation. Turner added that the
FSA’s probes into the London interbank offered rate requires
significant resources and caused a huge blow to the reputation
of the nation’s banking industry.  His comments come hours after Diamond, the lender’s chief
executive officer, stepped down following the bank’s admission
that it submitted false Libor rates to benefit derivatives
trades and bolster its own positions.  For more, click here.  SVM’s McLean Sees Regulators Tainted in Libor Inquiry  Colin McLean, chief executive officer of SVM Asset
Management, talks about the resignation of Barclays Plc CEO
Robert Diamond and the regulation of the U.K.’s financial
services industry.  He speaks with  Mark Barton  on Bloomberg Television’s
“Countdown.”  For the video, click here.  Osborne Says SFO Seeing if Libor Charges Can Be Brought  U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  spoke in
the House of Commons in London yesterday about the Serious Fraud
Office’s  investigation into whether criminal charges can be
brought over the Libor-rigging scandal, fines paid by financial-
services firms and regulation of the London interbank offered
rate.  For the video, click here.  Fed’s Hawks, Doves Fighting ‘Civil War,’ Blinder Says  Former Federal Reserve Vice Chairman  Alan Blinder , an
economics professor at Princeton University, talked about the
investigation into manipulation of the London interbank offered
interest rate, or Libor, system and the outlook for Fed monetary
policy and the U.S. economy.  Blinder spoke with  Erik Schatzker  and Scarlet Fu on
Bloomberg Television’s “Market Makers.”  For the video, click here.  Compliance Action  Google Makes Concessions to EU Regulators to End Antitrust Probe  Google Inc. (GOOG)  offered concessions to European Union
regulators in an effort to end an antitrust investigation that
the operator of the world’s largest search engine discriminates
against rivals.  Google Executive Chairman  Eric Schmidt  sent EU antitrust
chief  Joaquin Almunia  a letter responding to the probe, the EU
said in a statement. The settlement offer addresses the “four
areas the European Commission described” as potential concerns,
Google spokesman Al Verney said in a separate e-mail. Details of
the proposals weren’t disclosed.  Almunia in May asked Google to make an offer to settle
concerns that it promotes its own specialist search services,
copies rivals’ travel and restaurant reviews, and that
agreements with websites and software developers stifle
competition in the advertising industry. He said last month that
he would send Google a formal antitrust complaint if the
company’s proposal was unsatisfactory.  Google, based in Mountain View, California, is under
growing pressure from global regulators probing whether the
company is thwarting competition in the market for Web searches.  German Free Voters Unite With Euro Skeptics in Bid to Block ESM  Germany’s Free Voters party, a grassroots movement that has
formed a stronghold in the state of Bavaria, is joining forces
with euro skeptics seeking to block the currency area’s
permanent bailout fund through the courts.  Hubert Aiwanger, the party’s chairman, said yesterday that
he backs complaints filed on June 29 at the Karlsruhe-based
Federal Constitutional Court against the European Stability
Mechanism.  Even if the complaint fails, the Free Voters plan to run in
the fall 2013 federal elections, Aiwanger said. The third-
strongest party in Bavaria’s parliament will seek to derail ESM
aid, provided the party clears the 5 percent hurdle required in
Germany for parliamentary representation, he said.  Germany’s top court has limited  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s
discretion in EU bailout policies in at least three rulings.  German lawmakers and a democracy group filed suits
challenging the country’s participation in Europe’s fiscal pact
and the permanent bailout fund after parliament approved the
measures last week. The cases are holding up German ratification
of the two measures.  Nomura Dropped From DBJ Bond Sale Due to Insider Leak Case  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) , Japan’s biggest brokerage, was
dropped as a lead underwriter for state-owned  Development Bank
of Japan Inc. ’s bond sale this month because of its involvement
in leaking insider information.  Nomura was replaced by Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley
Securities Co. on the deal, according to a faxed statement from
Mizuho Securities Co. today. DBJ, which had said in May that it
had hired Tokyo-based Nomura as well as  Daiwa Securities Group
Inc. (8601)  and Mizuho Financial Group Inc., today said it made the
change to avoid “any disruption” to the offering.  The lost mandate may increase pressure on Nomura Chief
Executive Officer Kenichi Watanabe to take more steps to restore
clients’ confidence after employees gave out information ahead
of transactions managed by the bank in 2010. Nomura last week
said it will cut top executives’ pay and suspend some operations
amid a government crackdown on insider trading.  Keiko Sugai, a Tokyo-based spokeswoman for Nomura, declined
to comment. DBJ hasn’t decided how much to raise from selling
the three- and five-year bonds, Daisuke Inaba, a Tokyo-based
spokesman for DBJ, said by telephone today.  Regulators are yet to complete their inspection of Nomura.
The brokerage concluded an internal investigation on June 29.  For more, click here.  Courts  Glaxo to Plead Guilty, Pay $3 Billion in Marketing Accord  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  agreed to plead guilty and pay $3
billion to resolve criminal and civil allegations that it
illegally promoted prescription drugs and failed to report
safety data, the U.S. said.  The settlement, the largest-ever in a largest health-care
fraud case in the U.S., includes a criminal fine of $956.8
million, the Justice Department said yesterday. London-based
Glaxo will also forfeit $43 million, the U.S. said.  GSK will plead guilty to marketing the drugs Paxil and
Wellbutrin for uses not approved by the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration and for failing to report clinical data on
Avandia, federal prosecutors said. The company has agreed to
admit to the charges, which are misdemeanors, according to
filings yesterday by the U.S. in federal court in Boston.  Glaxo, the U.K.’s largest drugmaker, last year set aside
2.2 billion pounds ($3.5 billion) to cover the cost of the
settlement, which resolves a seven-year investigation of the
company’s marketing practices for the three drugs.  The settlement “brings to resolution difficult, long-
standing matters for GSK,” Chief Executive Officer  Andrew Witty 
said yesterday in a statement. “Whilst these originate in a
different era for the company, they cannot and will not be
ignored.”  Yesterday’s agreement includes a $300 million civil
settlement for failing to provide best prices and underpaying
rebates owed under the Medicaid drug program. GSK doesn’t admit
wrongdoing on pricing practices, the company said.  The case is U.S. v. GlaxoSmithKline LLC, 12-10206, U.S.
District court, District of Massachusetts (Boston).  For more, click here.  Judge Strikes Down Rule, Restoring Funds To For-Profit Colleges  A U.S. judge struck down regulations the day before they
were to take effect that could have cut off federal money to
for-profit colleges.  The Obama administration has said it’s seeking to protect
taxpayers from loan defaults and stop students from taking on
debt for degrees that don’t pay off with higher incomes. The
for-profit college industry lobbied against the rules, saying
they would reduce access to higher education for working adults
and military veterans.  U.S. District Judge Rudolph Contreras in Washington held in
a June 30 opinion that the requirement that at least 35 percent
of a school’s graduates be repaying their loans for a college to
qualify for federal funds wasn’t based on enough facts to
survive a challenge as arbitrary under the law.  Contreas sent the matter back to the administration for
reconsideration of the rules.  Peter Cunningham, a spokesman for the Department of
Education, said yesterday in an e-mailed statement the ruling
upholds its ability to regulate such schools. Contreras said the
U.S. can require institutions to tell students graduation and
placement rates, and disclose students’ median debt-load.  The case is Association of Private Colleges and
Universities v.  Arne Duncan , 11-cv-01314, U.S. District Court
for the District of Columbia (Washington).  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 