-- Tucker Libor Testimony Seen Following Diamond’s
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l   a n d   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2012-07-04T11:32:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/tucker-libor-testimony-seen-following-diamond-s.html
Bank of England  Deputy Governor Paul Tucker may be asked to give his version of events to lawmakers
over a telephone call with  Barclays Plc (BARC) ’s  Robert Diamond  as the
Libor furor intensifies.  George Mudie and Andy Love, opposition Labour Party members
of the Treasury Committee who will question Diamond in
Parliament today, said Tucker should also testify. His name was
drawn into the fray after the lender released a note of a 2008
call purporting to show that Tucker, the central bank’s markets
director at the time, hinted the firm could cut its Libor rates.  “It doesn’t look good,” said  Stewart Robertson , chief
European economist in London at  Aviva Investors (AVGHYAU) , which manages
about 263 billion pounds ($413 billion). “It sullies Tucker’s
squeaky-clean image. Yes, he should be called, and he’ll have to
do some fighting. The question is, can they prove it?”  Diamond, Marcus Agius and Jerry Del Missier resigned as
Barclays’s top officials after regulators fined the bank a
record 290 million pounds for attempting to rig the London
interbank offered rate for profit.  An Oct. 30, 2008, e-mail from Diamond, then the Barclays
investment-banking chief, to  John Varley , chief executive
officer at the time, reads that “Tucker stated that the levels
of calls he was receiving from Whitehall were ‘senior’ and that
while he was certain we did not need advice, that it did not
always need to be the case that we appeared as high as we have
recently.”  Diamond Testimony  “Barclays have a vested interest in throwing up a
smokescreen and it is no surprise to me that allegations have
surfaced from Barclays that they were given a nod by Bank of
England officials,” Conservative lawmaker David Ruffley said.
“Let us see if Mr. Diamond is going to put his money where his
mouth is. Is he going to be asked about it? Of course he is.”  Ruffley, a former adviser at the U.K. Treasury, added that
if Diamond repeats the allegation today, Tucker would have to be
asked to testify on the matter.  Tucker “will want to be called before the committee,”
Mudie said in an interview. “He is a clear candidate for the
governorship of the Bank of England and he won’t want this
hanging over him.”  Love, who said the committee will want to speak to Tucker
“in particular” as well as other Bank of England officials
“to hear their side of the story,” also called for transcripts
of the phone conversation to be published.  Labour Rebuttal  A Bank of England spokesman declined to comment.  Paul Myners , a Labour Party lawmaker in Parliament’s upper House of
Lords, who was minister for the City, London’s financial
district, under the last administration, denied he was the
source as did  Ed Balls , the Labour Treasury spokesman who was a
Cabinet minister at the time.  Tucker was already a possibility to appear before the
committee as part of the central bank’s regular testimony
regarding its Financial Stability Report, published last week.  The Treasury Select Committee will confirm next week
details of testimony by Bank of England officials for the
report, said a person familiar with the matter who declined to
be named because he was authorized to speak on the record.  The officials’ appearance is likely to happen before
Parliament ends its current session on July 17. Decisions on
whether any other officials will be called before the panel in
connection with today’s testimony by Diamond won’t be decided
until after his appearance.  ‘Quite Categorically’  “I can say quite categorically I didn’t speak to  Paul
Tucker  or anybody at the Bank of England about the Libor rate-
setting process,” Myners told BBC Radio 4’s “Today” program
today. He added that no one else at the Treasury under former
Chancellor of the Exchequer Alistair Darling was responsible
either.  “I am absolutely sure Paul Tucker will have a recording of
the conversation or he would have had his private secretary
listening to the call. Paul Tucker will have his own
contemporaneous record of that conversation. The Tories are
putting a lot of flak up, trying to take attention away from
their role.”  Balls told BBC television that “at no point did I have any
conversation with Mr. Tucker at all.”  Borrowing Benchmark  Libor, which is determined by 18 banks’ daily estimates of
how much it would cost them to borrow from one another for
different time frames and in various currencies, is the
benchmark for more than $360 trillion of securities, including
mortgages,  student loans  and swaps.  Conservative lawmaker Mark Garnier, who also sits on the
Treasury committee, said he would have liked to have questioned
Diamond while in post.  “I’d rather he was there as chief executive as  Barclays
Bank  because I want to grill him on the basis that he was
responsible not only to us but to his employees and his
shareholders,” he said in an interview. “Now he’s just a rich
bloke on who’s on holiday.”  “People want to see bankers go to prison. The wider public
is really angry. They know they are really angry with bankers
because they have done something wrong. What they don’t know is
what they have done wrong,” Garnier said.  Stewart Hosie, another committee member and a lawmaker for
the Scottish Nationalist Party, said there is “a huge amount of
unhappiness both in Parliament and in the general public.”  “We are at the start of the beginning,” Hosie said.
“It’s only once we get through who knew what and when will we
be able to chart accurately the way forward.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in  London  at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net ;
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  