-- Lupin, Google, China Copyright: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-07-03T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/lupin-google-china-copyright-intellectual-property.html
Lupin Ltd. (LPC)  won an appeals court
ruling yesterday that lets it continue selling a generic version
of the Shionogi Pharma Inc. diabetes drug  Fortamet .  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit said
Lupin had raised a substantial question of the validity of
Shionogi’s patent 6,866,866, and overturned a lower court ruling
that blocked sales while a patent-infringement case is pending.  The appeals court case is Sciele Pharma v. Lupin Ltd. 12-
01228, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit
(Washington). The lower court case is Sciele Pharma Inc. v.
Lupin, 1:09-cv-00037-RBK-JS, U.S. District Court, District of
Delaware (Wilmington).  Top Patent Area Silicon Valley Getting Its Own Satellite Office  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Intel Corp. (INTC)  soon won’t have to
travel across the U.S. to get patent protection on their latest
inventions.  Silicon Valley,  Dallas  and Denver have been selected as the
new homes for regional patent offices as part of an effort to
cut down on a backlog of applications awaiting review, the U.S.
Patent and Trademark Office said yesterday.  The agency, which is opening a satellite office in  Detroit 
on July 13 and has declared a “critical need for electrical
engineers,” is trying to hire more examiners to cut into the
640,000 applications awaiting a first review. By expanding
beyond its Alexandria, Virginia, campus, the patent office is
seeking to take advantage of a pool of engineers who understand
technology and can work closer to where inventors are located.  The additional offices were authorized under an overhaul of
the patent system signed into law last year. About 600
applications were submitted, and the selections were based on
geographic diversity, economic impact, the local workforce and
proximity to companies that are submitting applications.  “The single most important step we can take to support an
economy built to last is to bring new inventions to market as
quickly as possible,” said David Kappos, director of the Patent
and Trademark Office.  The regional offices -- one for each time zone -- would
become hubs with “a tangible impact on each city’s innovation
economy,” he said.  The four offices also could develop their own expertise to
reflect local communities -- Detroit for automotive, metallurgy
and paints; Dallas for energy; Denver for aerospace; and Silicon
Valley for electronics and biotechnology. Denver also was
selected in part because it has a large number of veterans with
advanced degrees, and President  Barack Obama ’s administration
has a policy to hire more veterans, Kappos said.  The Silicon Valley area, which also includes Sunnyvale and
Santa Clara, is the top recipient of patents, with more than
10,000 issued in 2010, agency figures show. The region
comprising San Francisco, Oakland, and Fremont adds another
6,290 patents, the third-most behind the  New York  and northern
New Jersey region.  The Detroit office will add about 120 jobs to the region,
and the plan is for at least one of the other offices to be
online within two years, said Vikrum Aiyer, a spokesman for the
patent office. Michigan residents received 3,964 patents in
2011, the sixth-highest.  The agency is hiring 1,500 examiners this fiscal year, to
bring the total to 7,800 from 6,800 plus filling in for
turnover.  AVT Gets Patent for Managing Vending Machines, Will Enforce It  AVT Inc. (AVTC) , the Corona, California-based vending machine
company, received a patent that covers the technology for remote
control of multiple vending machines, and said it’s considering
enforcing the patent against possible infringers, the Vending
Times trade publication  reported .  Patent 8,191,779, which was issued June 5, covers “any
system that is managing multiple machines wirelessly via a
control center,” AVT Chairman Shannon Illingworth told Vending
Times.  AVT is in the process of sending out cease-and-desist
letters to companies it thinks may be infringing the patent,
according to Vending Times.  Illingworth said that it would prefer to license infringing
companies because “the more operators out there with multiple
machines using credit cards and being managed efficiently is
good for all of us,” Vending Times reported.  Samsung Requests Stay of Nexus Sales Ban in Apple Lawsuit  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) ’s request to stay a court order
barring sales of its Galaxy Nexus smartphone in the U.S. will be
ruled on “shortly,” a federal judge said yesterday at a court
hearing in  San Jose , California.  U.S. District Judge Lucy Koh wasn’t more specific about
when she’ll issue her ruling.  In granting the ban on Nexus sales, Koh ruled last week
that although Samsung will be harmed by the order, “the harm
faced by Apple absent an injunction is greater.” That decision
followed Koh’s June 26 order blocking U.S. sales of Samsung’s
Galaxy Tab 10.1 computer.  The world’s two biggest makers of high-end phones have
accused each other of copying designs and technology for mobile
devices and are fighting patent battles on four continents to
retain their dominance in the $219 billion global smartphone
market.  William Price , a lawyer for Samsung, told Koh in court
yesterday that Nexus sales represent 0.5 percent of the
smartphone market, and that the balance of hardships Koh must
weigh in deciding whether to stay her injunction tips in favor
of Samsung.  Under the injunction, “every sale to us is a lost sale,”
Price said. “Every sale of that phone in the market is not a
lost sale to Apple -- there’s no evidence of that. It impacts us
much more.”  Josh Krevitt, a lawyer for Cupertino, California-based
Apple, told Koh that there is “loads” of evidence proving
Apple is suffering direct harm from Nexus sales. In Samsung
documents shared in an exchange of pretrial evidence gathering,
the company shows the Nexus is “designed to take sales from the
iPhone,” Krevitt said.  Samsung accounts for 29.1 percent of global shipments of
smartphones, according to market research firm IDC. Apple is
second with 24.2 percent, IDC said.  Outside courtroom battles, Samsung and Apple have a close
business relationship. Samsung is one of Apple’s biggest
suppliers, making parts including semiconductors and screens.
About 7.6 percent of Samsung’s revenue comes from Apple,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., 12-
cv-00630, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose). The tablet case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics
Co. Ltd., 11-cv-1846, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
California (San Jose).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Google Outlines Proposals to EU to End Antitrust Probe  Google Inc. outlined proposals to European Union regulators
in an effort to end an antitrust investigation into allegations
that the operator of the world’s largest search engine
discriminates against rivals.  Google Executive Chairman  Eric Schmidt  sent EU antitrust
chief  Joaquin Almunia  a letter responding to the probe, the EU
said in a statement. The settlement offer addresses the “four
areas the European Commission described” as potential concerns,
Google spokesman Al Verney said in a separate e-mail. Details of
the proposals weren’t disclosed.  Almunia in May asked Google to make an offer to settle
concerns it promotes its own specialist search services, copies
rivals’ travel and restaurant reviews, and that agreements with
websites and software developers stifle competition in the
advertising industry. He said last month he would send Google an
antitrust complaint, that could lead to a fine or limits on
conduct, if the proposal was unsatisfactory.  “Three of the four areas are relatively easy to address,”
 Greg Sterling , a senior analyst at Opus Research, said in a
statement. “The ‘concern’ about placement of ‘Google content’
in search results is more problematic given that it goes to the
heart of Google’s ability to control its search experience and
algorithm.”  Google, based in Mountain View, California, is under
increasing pressure from global regulators probing whether the
company is thwarting competition in the market for Web searches.
The U.S. Federal Trade Commission and antitrust agencies in
Argentina and South Korea are also scrutinizing the company.  In 2010, regulators began investigating claims Google
discriminated against other services in its search results and
stopped some websites from accepting competitors’ ads.  While Microsoft Inc. and partner  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  have about a
quarter of the U.S. Web-search market, Google has almost 95
percent of the traffic in Europe, Microsoft said in a blog post
last year, citing data from regulators.  Microsoft, maker of the Bing search engine, Foundem, a U.K.
shopping website, and other companies filed complaints with the
EU that triggered the probe.  “We hope the proposals reflect a greater willingness to
end Google’s anti-competitive behavior than has its consistent
rejection of the concerns that Mr. Almunia identified after
collecting evidence for nearly two years,” said  Thomas Vinje , a
lawyer for the FairSearch Coalition, a group that represents
Microsoft,  Expedia Inc. (EXPE)  and Foundem.  Riverina Citrus Marks May Be Acquired by Commercial Entity  Although New South Wales’ regional citrus growers’ body is
in the process of liquidation, some commercial entities have
expressed interest in acquiring the  Riverina Citrus  trademarks,
Australia Broadcast Corp.  reports .  The State Primary Industries Minister will have the power
to decide what happens to the marks that had belonged to the
group that produces 30 percent of Australia’s citrus, according
to ABC.  A liquidator handling the Riverina Citrus windup told ABC
the growers’ group’s IP “has created a little bit of interest
out there in the market as to whether it is available for
purchase.”  Sustainable Palm Oil Group Seeks Wider Adaption of Trademark  The  Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil  is seeking to expand
the adoption of its trademark beyond the  61 licenses  already
issued to 13 countries, the Borneo Post  reported .  Those who use the mark certify that oil palm cultivation
doesn’t damage the tropical forests from which it is harvested
or the people who live in those regions, according to the Borneo
Post.  The growing demand for  palm oil , which is used in a wide
range of products including cosmetics, soap, margarine, cookies
and chocolate and, potentially, biofuels, has created risks to
habitat protection, according to the Borneo Post.  Darrel Webber, secretary general of the roundtable, said
the use of the trademark brings an awareness of the
environmental issues to consumers and can boost the demand for
the certified product, the Borneo Post  reported .  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  China Copyright Center Expands Offerings, Licenses Staged Works.  The  Beijing International Copyright Trade Center  has
expanded to provide copyright licensing and protection for
staged performances, the AsiaOne website  reported .  While Chinese older performers didn’t worry about the
protection of their work, younger performers have expressed
“irritation and frustration” when seeing their work copied
without authorization, according to AsiaOne.  The trade center lists plays on its website that are
available for licensing, as well as casts of performers and
crews, Asia One reported.  Directors of various Chinese performing arts groups told
AsiaOne they are now encouraging their members to seek copyright
protection for their work.  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 