-- Uralkali Plots Potash Growth as BHP Delayed: Commodities
-- B y   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a
-- 2012-07-04T15:51:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/uralkali-plots-potash-growth-as-bhp-delayed-commodities.html
OAO Uralkali, the potash producer
billionaire Suleiman Kerimov built into the world’s largest, is
increasing profit faster than its five largest competitors in
the $25 billion global market by curbing output costs.  The Russian supplier of the crop nutrient estimates its
2011 merger with rival OAO Silvinit will reap $300 million in
annual cost efficiencies. Earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortization will jump an estimated 30 percent
to $2.69 billion this year, the mean of 16 analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  Kerimov, who controls about 55.14 percent of Uralkali with
his partners, is among the few suppliers along with  Canada ’s
 Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc.  and  Mosaic Co. (MOS)  of the U.S.,
that are expanding without raising prices high enough to draw
new entrants into the market. BHP Billiton Ltd., the largest
mining company, in May delayed plans to begin any big projects.  “Uralkali has one of the lowest costs of production in the
industry,” Elena Sakhnova, a VTB Capital analyst, said by phone
in Moscow. “It will continue to benefit from stable potash
prices should new global start-up projects be delayed.”
Uralkali will charge an average $492 a metric ton in 2012 to
export the potassium-laced additive used to make crops more
resilient, while holding costs to $65, Sakhnova estimates.  The Russian miner said it achieved $137 million in savings
from the merger in 2011, helping margins at the Berezniki-based
company, whose trading arm supplies more than 40 percent of
global exports.  Shallower Mines  An even bigger advantage is its easier access to lucrative
mineral deposits. Uralkali’s deepest mine is 450 meters (1,500
feet), while only one of  Potash Corp. (POT) ’s has a mining depth of
400 to 700 meters, the Saskatoon, Canada-based company’s website
shows. Its deepest is 1,040 meters.  BHP failed in a hostile $40 billion bid for Potash Corp. in
2010 and then proposed building the world’s largest potash mine
in Saskatchewan. While Melbourne-based BHP said in January that
year that a final  investment decision  was expected in late 2011,
CEO Marius Kloppers said in May he won’t sign off on any major
projects before the end of 2012.  Potash Corp. is expected to increase Ebitda 6.2 percent to
$4.67 billion, based on 21 analyst estimates. Mosaic’s Ebitda is
projected to be little changed, while an 8.2 percent drop is
expected for K+S Group and a 4.7 percent slump for  Israel
Chemicals Ltd. (ICL)   Investors don’t recognize Uralkali’s full value, even as it
reports higher margins, said Mikhail Safin, an analyst at
 Renaissance Capital  in Moscow.  Best Margin  Uralkali’s 59 percent Ebitda margin last year beats the 50
percent posted at Potash Corp. and the 31 percent at Mosaic,
according to Bloomberg data. Incorporating Silvinit figures from
January pushes the margin to 69 percent, Uralkali said in April.  The stock has gained just 7 percent in Moscow this year,
trailing Mosaic’s 8.8 percent return and the 10 percent gain of
 Russia ’s benchmark Micex index.  “Uralkali is underestimated due to Russia-related risks,”
Safin said. They include potential increases in taxes and
tariffs that could hurt its bottom line, Safin said.  The euro-zone crisis is weighing on Uralkali’s share price
as investors prefer to have cash on hand rather than investing
in stock, Vladislav Baumgertner, Uralkali’s 39-year-old chief
executive officer, said in an interview in  St. Petersburg  on
June 22. “We still believe that our share price is hugely
undervalued in terms of the potential of the company.”  Potash producers are tapping the food demand of a swelling
global population. Food output will need to expand 70 percent by
2050, according to the  United Nations . The imperative for
farmers to improve their crop yields is what’s prompting BHP and
Vale SA to try to compete with established potash suppliers.  Food Security  “Our business is directly related to the  food security 
story and there are very strong fundamentals behind that,”
Baumgertner said.  Uralkali’s Ebitda is projected to almost double by 2015,
Bloomberg data show. By that year, the price of potash will rise
by about 32 percent to $560 a ton, according to VTB estimates.  Uralkali will retain its standing among the lowest-cost
producers even as its costs rise to $65 a ton this year from $55
in 2011 because of planned output cuts, VTB’s Sakhnova said.  Uralkali’s pro-forma Ebitda for 2011, assuming a full-year
of combination with Silvinit, was $2.46 billion. The projected
gain in 2012 earnings would still be largest among its biggest
rivals at 9.5 percent.  ‘Main Danger’  Should all proposed potash projects get built, the price
may slump 8.7 percent by 2015 and as much as 24 percent in 2020,
 UBS AG (UBSN)  said in December. Output would climb an average 4.1
percent a year to 2020, outstripping a 3.4 percent gain in
demand.  Uralkali sees such an outcome as unlikely.  “The main danger for the market comes from greenfield
projects such as BHP’s,” said Baumgertner. Market conditions
mean that for the next five or six years “Uralkali doesn’t
believe all such projects will be realized, as they require huge
investment and time.”  Vale (VALE) ’s $5.9 billion Rio Colorado project in  Argentina  may
be at risk because of potash prices, according to Konstantin Yuminov, an analyst at Raiffeisen Bank in Moscow.  Producers need long-term potash prices exceeding $500 a ton
to justify building new mines, UBS estimates.  “Brownfield projects are definitely the most beneficial
for the time being,” Yuminov said.  Jansen Project  Kerimov, 46, built his fortune investing in distressed
companies, and has personal wealth estimated at $6.5 billion by
Forbes magazine. He directly owns 17.16 percent of Uralkali,
with the rest in the hands of his partners. They bought control
of Uralkali from Russian billionaire Dmitry Rybolovlev in June
2010.  BHP has already spent $1.2 billion at its Jansen project in
Canada, where it intends to produce about 8 million metric tons
a year, with output possibly starting in 2016. Jansen may cost
as much as $10 billion,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  has estimated.  Vale targets 4.3 million tons of annual output from Rio
Colorado in Mendoza province. Vale has completed 30 percent of
the project, which was expected to be ready in the second half
of 2014. In May, Vale said it intends to review its plans.  “Greenfield projects are difficult everywhere, and for  BHP
Billiton  and Vale in particular,” Baumgertner, who holds an MBA
from the U.K.’s Kingston Business School and a financial
management degree from the University of  London , said in the
June 22 interview.  Farmers’ Yields  Potash Corp. has seen evidence of higher costs at rivals’
projects. “Based on reported capital numbers for competitor
brownfield projects, you can see brownfield projects started
today are significantly higher cost than than earlier
projects,” Chief Executive Officer Bill Doyle said at a May 15
investor conference. “We see this as a major advantage of our
expansion programs.”  Most start-up projects were announced before the 2008 world
economic crisis, when the average price of potash excluding
delivery peaked at about $500 a ton, said VTB’s Sakhnova. Prices
have since dropped to about $390, destroying the business case
for these ventures, she said.  In the longer term, companies are still likely to approve
new projects at the lower-end of the cost scale to gain from
forecast increased demand from farmers for crop nutrients as the
global population climbs and food consumption increases.  “Between 1990 and 2010, the population grew by 20
percent,” Baumgertner said, giving global estimates. “At the
same time, arable land per capita decreased also by 20 percent,
which means that farmers need an efficient agricultural business
to achieve high yields.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  