-- Murdoch’s Phone-Hacking Scandal Pain Won’t Go Away Soon
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-07-04T11:48:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/murdoch-s-scandal-on-dowler-anniversary-far-from-over.html
Thousands of  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s potential
phone-hacking victims still haven’t been notified by police, and
dozens of suspects may face drawn-out criminal trials, in a sign
the scandal that peaked a year ago isn’t going away soon.  News Corp. Chairman Rupert Murdoch shuttered the News of
the World tabloid at the center of the affair and paid more than
$258 million in legal fees and settlements. Yet 12 months later,
a police probe into bribery at his best-selling Sun title is
still triggering new arrests, including three more today, and a
related federal investigation in the U.S. hasn’t been resolved.  Murdoch, 81, will suffer “lasting reputational damage” as
the legal process drags on for as long as five more years, said
Claire Enders, a media analyst at London-based Enders Analysis,
who advises clients including the British government. “The
scandals will not be forgotten in his lifetime.”  News Corp.’s U.K. unit, News International, suppressed the
extent of phone hacking and avoided widespread public anger
until one year ago today when the  Guardian newspaper  revealed
the News of the World intercepted the mobile-phone messages of
murdered schoolgirl  Milly Dowler  in 2002. Murdoch closed the
168-year-old tabloid within weeks and dropped his New York-based
company’s bid for the rest of  British Sky Broadcasting Group
Plc (BSY) , the U.K.’s biggest pay-television provider.  Multiple Inquiries  The scandal triggered three police probes, scores of
lawsuits, as well as parliamentary and judicial inquiries. A
judge’s report on the state of media ethics that may be released
later this year also may contain damaging findings on Murdoch
and his company.  “This story will run and run,” said Niri Shan, who leads
the media practice at Taylor Wessing LLP in  London  and isn’t
involved in the cases. “Not only have you got more claims that
will come out of the woodwork, you’re going to have these
criminal trials that will come on well into next year.”  Police arrested three more people in the bribery probe
today, including a prison officer. The U.K. Supreme Court also
ruled today the tabloid’s ex-private investigator,  Glenn Mulcaire , must reveal detailed evidence about the information he
gleaned from hacking, rejecting his claim he would be
incriminating himself in a possible new criminal case.  Before the Dowler story a year ago, the public believed the
News of the World hacked only the phones of politicians and
celebrities, such as actor Jude Law. Dowler’s body wasn’t found
for six months after her murder. The case received widespread
media coverage at the time and again in June 2011 when her
killer, Levi Bellfield, was sentenced to  life imprisonment .  Victim Notification  The  Metropolitan Police Service  still needs to notify more
than 2,100 potential victims of phone hacking, including almost
400 people identified as “likely” targets, the department said
June 29. After searching thousands of pages of Mulcaire’s notes,
the Met said the tabloid had 4,775 possible victims, including
1,082 “likely” targets. Not all of the possible victims had
their voice mail accessed, police have said, and they may not
sue.  Criminal cases will be an even bigger source of unwanted
media attention due to the potential for prison terms, Shan
said.  Out of more than 50 people arrested in three probes, six
have been charged so far in London, including former News
International Chief Executive Officer Rebekah Brooks, who is
scheduled to enter a plea in the case in September. Former News
of the World editor  Andy Coulson  has been charged with perjury
in  Scotland  in a case linked to phone hacking. Both have denied
the claims.  Civil Case Accords  News International avoided the first civil trial of the
scandal by settling with Welsh singer  Charlotte  Church and
dozens of other victims by February. Since then, about 60 more
cases have been filed, and lawyers have said in court as many as
200 more victims are prepared to sue if they don’t settle first.
The most recent claim was filed June 28 by Kate Waddington, the
former public relations consultant for the Duchess of York,
 Sarah Ferguson . Waddington declined to comment.  In the U.S., the related bribery claims have led to an
investigation by the  Justice Department  into whether the illegal
payments violated the U.S.  Foreign Corrupt Practices Act , which
bars bribery of overseas companies for business reasons. Such
proceedings can take “many years,” Enders said.  Before victims started suing in 2010, News International
said phone hacking had been limited to Mulcaire and a “rogue”
reporter,  Clive Goodman , who were both jailed in 2007.  Judge’s Findings  A London judge later said the company engaged in a cover up
and destroyed evidence. Since then, News Corp. has been running
an extensive internal probe and cooperating with authorities,
the company and police have said. It also created an out-of-
court procedure for settling claims that is being overseen by a
former judge.  In the 12 months since the Dowler story broke, Murdoch has
apologized in person to her family, testified to Parliament,
appeared at the media-ethics probe triggered by the scandal and
watched his political influence evaporate as U.K. Prime Minister
 David Cameron  and other lawmakers distanced themselves from the
media mogul. A London protester threw a foam pie at him.  The anniversary of the Dowler story falls almost one week
after News Corp. said it plans to split into two publicly traded
companies to separate the U.K. newspaper business and its other
publishing entities from News Corp.’s entertainment businesses.
Murdoch said the decision had nothing to do with the phone-
hacking scandal.  ‘Changed Forever’  “The new structure is an acceptance by the Murdoch family
that things have changed forever as a result of the scandal,”
Enders said. “ Rupert Murdoch  seems to think most of that will
be behind the company when the publishing division floats in a
year; I think that’s very optimistic.”  Murdoch’s son  James Murdoch , News Corp.’s deputy chief
operating officer, stepped down as News International’s
executive chairman and resigned as chairman of London-based
BSkyB. He also stepped down from several boards related to News
Corp.’s U.K. unit, as well as from the boards of auction house
Sotheby’s and drugmaker GlaxoSmithKline Plc.  The “nepotistic passing of the baton” will be dropped by
the Murdoch family as a result of the scandal, said  Mark Lewis ,
the lawyer for the Dowler family and some of the company’s first
known phone-hacking victims.  News Corp. Response  Miranda Higham, a spokeswoman for News Corp. and  Daisy Dunlop , a spokeswoman for the U.K. unit, declined to comment on
the anniversary of the Dowler story or the future civil and
criminal cases.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  In the days after the Dowler story broke, News Corp.’s
 shares  fell almost 25 percent to $13.62 on Aug. 8. Since then,
the shares have soared 67 percent to $22.73 as of yesterday,
powered by a share repurchase plan and, in recent weeks, by the
decision to split the company.  “People are seeing the consequences of family control of
public companies” and too-cozy ties between media bosses and
politicians, said Lewis, the Dowler family lawyer. “Hopefully,
in times to come, people will see that News International became
out of control and politicians allowed it to do so.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London
at   elarson4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 