-- Turkey Inflation at 8.9 Percent Beats Estimates; Bonds Surge
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y   a n d   A l i   B e r a t   M e r i c
-- 2012-07-03T14:23:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/turkey-inflation-at-8-9-percent-beats-estimates-bonds-surge-2-.html
Turkish  inflation  accelerated at a
slower pace than expected last month, beating all economists’
expectations and prompting banks including Morgan Stanley to cut
their forecasts. Bonds jumped.  June inflation climbed to 8.9 percent from 8.3 percent in
May, the statistics agency in Ankara said on its website today.
The figure was less than all  estimates  in a Bloomberg survey of
nine economists and beat an average prediction of 9.5 percent.
Prices fell 0.9 percent in the month.  “The biggest uncertainty now is whether annual consumer
price inflation will rise back to double digits in the summer,
but we think the central bank will maintain its tight monetary
policy in order to avoid that,”  Ozgur Altug , chief economist at
BGC Partners in Istanbul, said in an e-mailed report to clients.  Central bank governor Erdem Basci has mixed funding to
banks between rates of 5.75 percent and 11.5 percent on a daily
basis since October to tame inflation and rein in the current-
account deficit, while keeping economic growth intact.  The
policy has helped Turkish bond yields fall 268 basis points this
year, making them the second best-performing bonds in  emerging
markets , trailing only  Brazil . The central bank’s  average
lending rate  was 8.74 percent yesterday.  Morgan Stanley  Recent data and lower  oil prices  prompted Morgan Stanley to
cut its estimate for inflation at the year-end to 6.6 percent
from 7.3 percent, economist  Tevfik Aksoy  said in an e-mailed
report today from London.  The central bank will probably maintain “tight funding”
to banks and lowering rates now “does not seem like a necessary
or effective move,” he said.  Two-year benchmark bonds  strengthened today, with yields
sliding 13 basis points to 8.31 percent in Istanbul, the lowest
level since September. The lira climbed 0.4 percent to 1.7978
per dollar at 5:00 a.m. The main  ISE National 100 (XU100)  share index
rose 1.2 percent to 62,688.96.  Lowering Estimate  The central bank may cut its 2012 inflation forecast of 6.5
percent toward its official target of five percent should the
downward trend in commodity and oil prices continue, Basci said
on June 28. The price of  Brent crude  has dropped 10 percent this
year to $97.5 per barrel.  “The likelihood of year-end inflation being closer to the
central bank’s forecast of 6.5 percent is now much higher than
before owing to the recent sharp declines in food prices,”
Ilker Domac, economist at Citigroup Inc. in Istanbul, said by
email. “Against this backdrop we expect inflation to fluctuate
between 8.5 percent and below 9.5 percent until October, before
declining to the 6.5 to 7 percent range in the last quarter.”  Two-year  interest-rate swaps  used to bet on borrowing costs
dropped as much as five basis points to 9.08 percent today,
heading for the lowest in eight months. The rate reached as high
as 11.45 percent in January.  Producer price inflation slowed to 6.4 percent in June from
8.1 percent the previous month, the statistics agency said. The
central bank’s favored measure of  core inflation  dropped to 7.4
percent from 7.7 percent.  Lira-Sensitive  The lira slumped 18 percent against the dollar last year,
the biggest depreciation worldwide, as inflation accelerated,
the current-account gap swelled to a record and oil prices rose
for a third year.  “The central bank will remain sensitive to currency
strength in order to prevent any deterioration in inflation
expectations,”  Inan Demir , chief economist at Finansbank AS,
the unit of National  Bank of Greece (TELL)  SA in Istanbul, said in an
e-mailed report to clients.  The bank’s ability to ease monetary policy will be limited
unless foreign inflows pick up, Domac said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net ;
Ali Berat Meric in Ankara at 
 americ@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  