-- Turkish Economic Growth Slows to 3.2% in First Quarter
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 2012-07-03T15:29:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/turkish-economic-growth-slows-to-3-2-in-first-quarter-correct-.html
(Corrects quarterly GDP data in the fifth paragraph after
statistics agency makes correction to show economic contraction,
in story dated yesterday.)  Turkey ’s economy expanded by an
annual 3.2 percent in the first quarter, the  slowest pace  since
2009.  Growth in the quarter was faster than expected. The median
estimate in a Bloomberg survey of nine economists was for an
expansion of three percent. The economy had grown 5.2 percent in
the fourth quarter, making Turkey the world’s third-fastest
expanding economy behind  China  and  Argentina  last year.  Turkey is seeking to ensure growth for the economy in the
face of a slowdown in the European Union, its biggest trading
partner, while putting the brakes on a domestic lending boom.
Central Bank Governor Erdem Basci began a dual interest rates
policy in October that allows him to respond to changing
economic conditions by mixing funding at the benchmark rate of
5.75 percent and a higher rate of 11.5 percent.  “First-quarter figures are supportive of the central
bank’s soft landing and re-balancing themes,”  Inan Demir , chief
economist at Finansbank AS in Istanbul, said in an e-mailed
report to clients. “We expect no policy impact after this
print. Net exports turned out to be the main growth engine. In
contrast domestic demand was markedly weaker in the first
quarter.”  Quarterly Growth  The economy contracted 0.4 percent on a quarterly basis in
the three months to March, the first shrinkage in three years,
according to seasonally adjusted figures. That compared with
revised 0.2 percent quarter-on-quarter growth in the last three
months of 2011.  Yields on two-year benchmark bonds rose one basis point to
8.48 percent at 11:41 a.m. The main ISE National 100 index
declined 0.3 percent to 62,376.35. The lira weakened less than
0.1 percent to 1.8096 per dollar.  Turkey’s economy appears to be close to attaining a soft
landing, though its current account deficit is expected to
remain high at $61 billion this year, leaving the country
vulnerable to volatility in the  euro zone ,  Fitch Ratings  said in
an e-mailed statement from  London  on June 28. Fitch rates Turkey
at one level below investment grade.  Moody’s Investors Service raised its rating one level to
Ba1, one step below investment grade, on June 20 citing an
improvement in Turkey’s “macroeconomic resilience.” Turkey is
rated two levels below investment grade at  Standard & Poor’s .  Turkish exports climbed an annual 13 percent to $35.4
billion in the first quarter, according to data on the Ankara-
based statistics agency website. Exports also rose 13 percent
annually in the first five months, the agency said.  The pace of growth in exports slowed to 3.6 percent in June
alone from a year ago, the Turkish Exporters’ Assembly said in
an e-mailed report today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  