-- Murray to Face Ferrer in Wimbledon Quarterfinal, Williams Wins
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-07-04T00:00:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/murray-defeats-cilic-drizzle-to-move-to-wimbledon-quarterfinals.html
Andy Murray ’s patience was tested as
he beat Croatia’s Marin Cilic in three sets over two days at
Wimbledon to advance to the quarterfinals. Four-time women’s
champion  Serena Williams  defeated title-holder  Petra Kvitova .  Murray got past the No. 16 seed from Croatia 7-5, 6-2, 6-3
on No. 1 Court, which doesn’t have a roof. Play on the outside
courts at the tennis Grand Slam tournament in London was halted
several times yesterday because of rain.  “It’s not easy,” Murray, who will face  David Ferrer  in
the last eight today, told reporters. “In matches you kind of
can build momentum and build leads, and then when you stop, once
you come back out again, you feel like you’re starting off from
square one. I came up with some big serves.”  Murray, who was 7-5, 3-1 up when rain halted the fourth-
round match two days ago, produced 16 aces, four times more than
his opponent. The No. 4 seed from Britain wasn’t happy that play
was again suspended yesterday for one hour after both players
had won a game in the drizzle.  “Who suspended it?” he asked the umpire, before being
rushed off the court after 15 minutes of play.  Murray’s main rivals for the title, six-time winner  Roger Federer  of Switzerland and defending champion Novak Djokovic of
Serbia, had yesterday off after both played their fourth-round
matches under Centre Court’s retractable roof.  Men’s Quarterfinals  Federer opens men’s quarterfinal action on the main arena
today against 26th-seeded  Mikhail Youzhny  of Russia before
Murray faces Ferrer, the No. 7 seed from Spain. Djokovic plays
 Florian Mayer , the No. 31 seed from  Germany , on No. 1 Court,
followed by fifth-seeded Jo-Wilfried Tsonga of  France  against
Philipp Kohlschreiber, the No. 27 seed from Germany.  Until the fourth round, all of Murray’s matches had been
played on Centre Court as he tries to end Britain’s 76-year
Grand Slam singles title drought in the men’s game.  “Honestly, I don’t care which court I play on,” Murray
said after beating Cilic with 35 winners. “It makes no
difference, but every player would like to play on Centre Court
because it has got a roof.”  The last British man to win one of the sport’s four major
titles was  Fred Perry , who captured the U.S. National
Championships in 1936 and also won Wimbledon the same year.
Murray has lost all three major finals he’s played, most
recently at the 2011 Australian Open to Djokovic.  On Centre Court yesterday, the roof opened shortly before
the noon start time, only for the covers to come on and the roof
to shut as rain started a few minutes later.  ‘More Pressure’  Ferrer then beat former U.S. Open champion Juan Martin del Potro of Argentina, 6-3, 6-2, 6-3 in a match that had been
postponed from the previous day. Ferrer and Murray are tied 5-5
in  career meetings , with the Spaniard having won the past two,
including a quarterfinal victory at last month’s  French Open .  “It’s very difficult to beat Andy in all surfaces, but on
grass court is more difficult,” Ferrer told reporters. “Maybe
he has more pressure than me.”  Tenth-seeded  Mardy Fish  and qualifier  Brian Baker , the last
two American men in the singles draw, lost yesterday. Tsonga
beat Fish 4-6, 7-6 (7-4), 6-4, 6-4, while Baker lost 6-1, 7-6
(7-4), 6-3 to Kohlschreiber.  Mayer defeated 18th-seeded  Richard Gasquet  of France 6-3,
6-1, 3-6, 6-2 in a match that was also played over two days.  Williams Wins  Women’s No. 6 seed Williams defeated Kvitova of the Czech
Republic 6-3, 7-5 under the roof to set up a semifinal tomorrow
against Australian Open champion  Victoria Azarenka  of Belarus,
who beat Austria’s Tamira Paszek 6-3, 7-6 (7-4) in a match that
moved from No. 1 to Centre Court.  “She’s playing unbelievable,” Williams said of the
second-seeded Azarenka. “She’s played so well this year.
Already having a Grand Slam under her belt is really great.”  In the top half of the women’s draw, No. 8 seed Angelique
Kerber defeated fellow German Sabine Lisicki 6-3, 6-7 (7-9), 7-5
to reach the final four at Wimbledon for the first time.  Kerber, who squandered three match points in the second set,
will play Agnieszka Radwanska for a place in the final after the
No. 3 seed from Poland defeated Russia’s Maria Kirilenko 7-5, 4-
6, 7-5. The match was completed on Centre Court following
repeated rain breaks on No. 1 Court.  “The day for me was like 40 hours,” Radwanska said after
reaching her first Grand Slam semifinal. “It was raining and
windy outside, then at the end we played under the roof. It’s
much better to finish it in the same day than to wait another
day.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in  London  at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  