-- Venezuela Inflation Slows for Seventh Month on Import Surge
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 2012-07-03T16:20:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/venezuela-inflation-slows-for-seventh-month-on-import-surge-1-.html
Venezuela ’s annual inflation rate
fell for a seventh consecutive month in June as the government
stepped up imports as part of an expansion in public spending
ahead of elections in October.  Inflation eased to 21.3 percent, the slowest pace since the
creation of the national  price index  in 2008, trailing the 21.8
percent median estimate of five economists in a Bloomberg
survey. Consumer prices rose 1.4 percent in June from May, the
central bank said today in an e-mailed statement.  President  Hugo Chavez  is expanding public spending as he
seeks to extend his 13 years in power at elections on Oct. 7.
Imports rose 48 percent in the first quarter, according to the
central bank, allowing the government to stock subsidized state-
run food markets with cheap goods ahead of the vote, said
 Francisco Rodriguez , a New York-based economist at Bank of
America Merrill Lynch.  “The government is bringing in goods that form a large
part of CPI and this is essentially allowing them to keep down
the increase in inflation,” Rodriguez said in a phone interview
from  New York . The policy “could go on for quite a long time
but sooner or later Venezuela is going to run out of dollars.”  Transport, restaurants and hotels, and health-care pushed
consumer prices higher in June, rising 4 percent, 2.7 percent
and 1.6 percent respectively, the bank said today. Food, which
has the most weight on prices in the inflation index, gained 0.8
percent.  Price Caps  Chavez said June 29 that the slowdown in inflation is a
result of his policies of promoting domestic production while
controlling prices of essential goods.  Consumer goods companies including  Procter & Gamble Co (PG) ,
 Colgate-Palmolive Co. (CL)  and Johnson & Johnson have had to reduce
prices by as much as 25 percent on products such as toothpaste,
toilet paper and bleach after Chavez installed price caps April
1 to slow inflation. The price caps are necessary to combat
“capitalist speculation,” Chavez says.  Venezuela has the fastest inflation after Belarus and  Iran 
of 96 economies tracked by Bloomberg.  “This indicates that inflation is continuing to slow
down,” Chavez, who insists he will overcome his battle with
cancer to contest the October election, said on state television
last week. “This is an important gain, a product of our
economic policies.”  EPS Impact  Procter & Gamble, the world’s largest consumer-products
company, estimated the price controls had a negative impact of
$0.03 per share in the first quarter, Chief Financial Officer
Jon Moeller said in a an April 27 earnings teleconference.
Oakland, California-based  Clorox Co. (CLX)  said about 25 percent of a
49 percent decline in international segment profitability is
attributable to price controls in Venezuela.  In January, Chavez threatened to nationalize companies that
fail to comply with the price controls. The government already
regulates the price of hundreds of basic food goods.  The central bank’s scarcity index, which measures the
availability of goods in stores, fell to 11.7 percent in June
from 14.4 percent in May.  While the government may be able to keep importing to
maintain lower prices, the strategy, coupled with a drop in
crude  oil prices , will require the government to devalue the
bolivar after the elections, Rodriguez said.  “There’s quite some space for them to run down their
assets and continue to have a high growth rate of imports, but
there’s a limit which gets nearer the lower that oil prices
are,” he said. “This picture ends in a substantial devaluation
and macro adjustment, but that’s something that will happen
after the elections.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 