-- Verso Paper Soars After Proposing Merger With NewPage
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2012-07-03T19:08:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/verso-paper-soars-after-proposing-merger-with-newpage.html
Verso Paper Corp. (VRS) , a U.S. maker of
coated paper used in magazines, jumped the most in almost four
months after saying it proposed a merger with NewPage Corp., a
rival that filed for bankruptcy in September.  The shares rose 48 percent to $1.73 at the close in  New
York , the biggest gain since March 8.  Verso has held discussions with some holders of closely
held NewPage’s 11.375 percent first-lien senior secured notes,
 Memphis , Tennessee-based Verso said today in a statement. Under
the terms of Verso’s proposed deal, the holders of the notes
would get $1.08 billion of new Verso notes, $150 million of new
Verso stock and $200 million in cash.  NewPage doesn’t support the bid, which poses “significant
downside risks” for its “stakeholders,” workers and business,
the Miamisburg, Ohio-based company said today in a separate
statement. NewPage said it doesn’t anticipate further
discussions about the proposal.  Verso and NewPage have struggled financially amid declining
demand for magazine paper while tablet computers such as Apple
Inc.’s iPad become increasingly popular. Verso has posted net
losses for nine consecutive quarters, according to  data  compiled
by Bloomberg.  “A combination with NewPage would create a stronger
business in the global coated and supercalendered paper industry
because of the material cost savings that would be achieved,”
Verso said in its statement.  Supercalendered paper is used for magazines, catalogs and
directories.  Verso’s bonds jumped to the highest level since they were
sold in May. The company’s $271.6 million of 11.75 percent bonds
due in January 2019 rose 5.5 cents to 81.5 cents on the dollar,
according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  