-- Vietnam’s Stocks Drop Most in Asia on Capital Flow Concern
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-07-03T06:21:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/vietnam-s-stocks-drop-most-in-asia-on-capital-flow-concern.html
Vietnam ’s stocks dropped, dragging
the benchmark index down the most in  Asia , on concern investment
in the nation’s equities may decline as economic growth slows.  The benchmark  VN Index (VNINDEX)  on the Ho Chi Minh City Stock
Exchange declined 1.5 percent to 413.01 at the 11:30 a.m. local-
time break, poised for the lowest close since Feb. 21. The gauge
slid 4.2 percent in the second quarter, the biggest decline
since the three months ended Dec. 30.  Joint-Stock Commercial
Bank for Foreign Trade of Vietnam , the country’s largest-listed
lender by market value, fell 2.7 percent to 28,500 dong, bound
the lowest close in a month.  The economy expanded 4.38 percent in the first half of the
year, down from 5.63 percent a year earlier, the Statistics
Office said on June 29. Growth this year may be 5.4 percent to
5.7 percent, according to Do Thuc, general director at the
office. That compares with a government forecast of 6 percent.  “Investors are very cautious, as prospects for the economy
still look gloomy, which may reduce cash flows into the
market,” Giang Trung Kien, Hanoi-based head of research at FPT
Securities Joint-Stock Co., a brokerage unit of Vietnam’s
biggest publicly traded telecommunications and software company,
said today. “Even though inflation is no longer a concern,
there are no positive surprises expected anymore.”  Vietnam has entered a period of sluggish growth, the  World
Bank  said in a report last month, citing the slow pace of
structural reforms and inefficiencies in state-owned companies,
banks and public investments.  Consumer prices rose 6.9 percent from a year earlier in
June, the slowest since December 2009.  Bao Viet Holdings (BVH) , the country’s largest listed insurer,
dropped 3 percent to 42,000 dong, heading for the lowest close
since Jan. 11.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nguyen Kieu Giang in Hanoi at 
 giang1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  