-- Vivendi Said to Seek External Candidate to Replace Levy
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d ,   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s   a n d   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2012-07-03T18:09:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/vivendi-said-to-seek-external-candidate-to-replace-levy.html
Vivendi SA (VIV)  has hired a headhunter to
find a successor to former Chief Executive Officer  Jean-Bernard Levy  and started identifying external candidates for the job,
according to people with knowledge of the matter.  Among potential candidates are Yoel Zaoui,  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS) ’s former co-head of global mergers and acquisitions,
and a senior  General Electric Co. (GE)  executive in  Europe , one of
the people said, asking not to be identified because the
discussions are confidential. The search is at an early stage,
and Vivendi may not appoint a new CEO before the end of this
year, another person said.  Triggered by a clash with the board over strategy, Levy’s
departure last week after seven years at the helm may accelerate
a reorganization at Vivendi, the owner of the largest music and
video-game companies. Levy’s successor will help Chairman Jean- Rene Fourtou, who now oversees strategy, overhaul the Paris-
based company’s structure and restore investor confidence after
its stock reached a nine-year low in April.  “The first step for Vivendi implementing any strategy is
for them to name a CEO,” said  Claudio Aspesi , an analyst at
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in  London . “Whatever they want to do
next, leaving it in limbo is not an option.”  A Vivendi official didn’t immediately return a phone call
and an e-mail seeking comment. Zaoui wasn’t available for
comment.  Goldman Veteran  Vivendi has been considering a change in its structure,
with scenarios ranging from assets sales to a breakup of the
company, people with knowledge of the matter have said. Options
also include a possible sale of all or part of its stake in
video-game publisher  Activision Blizzard Inc. (ATVI)  and a spinoff of
pay-TV unit Canal Plus, they have said. Other Vivendi units
include Universal Music Group and telecommunications providers
in  Morocco  and Brazil.  Vivendi rose 0.4 percent to 14.87 euros in Paris. The stock
has gained about 11 percent since Bloomberg News reported on
June 28 that Levy was preparing to step down, a decision the
company confirmed after the market close that day. Vivendi
shares touched a nine-year low in April.  Vivendi’s choice of CEO will give an indication whether
Chairman Fourtou prefers a financial expert or someone with the
experience of running a conglomerate.  Dealmaking Experience  Zaoui, 51, would bring to Vivendi years of expertise in
dealmaking. Born in Morocco, Zaoui received a master’s degree in
business administration from  Stanford University ’s Graduate
School of Business before joining Goldman Sachs in  New York  in
1988. He moved to London one year later, where he helped build
the company’s European mergers-and-acquisitions practice under
the leadership of  John Thornton .  Zaoui was promoted to co-head of European mergers in 1999,
the year Goldman Sachs became the region’s top adviser on
hostile takeovers, and in 2006 was promoted to run all of
European  investment banking . His departure from Goldman Sachs as
co-head of global M&A was announced in April, less than a year
after he took the position alongside Gene T. Sykes.  Goldman Sachs has advised Vivendi on 15 mergers or
acquisitions since 1997, including helping the French company
buy Activision in 2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Only Lazard has counseled Vivendi on a larger number of deals,
the data show. In Vivendi’s biggest transaction, the $43.9
billion takeover of Seagram Co., Goldman Sachs advised Seagram
and Lazard advised Vivendi.  EU Complaint  Following Levy’s removal last week, Vivendi has appointed
General Counsel Jean-Francois Dubos to lead the management
board. Until a new CEO is named, Dubos’ immediate challenges
will include dealing with regulators.  The company’s  Universal Music Group  was told by European
Union regulators that its bid for the recorded-music business of
EMI Group would remove a key rival and harm competition for
music sales, according to three people who have seen the EU
document.  The complaint spells out EU concerns that Universal and
EMI’s combined share of the retail music sales wouldn’t be
checked by competitors or the threat of illegal music downloads,
said the people who asked not to be identified because details
of the EU complaint aren’t public. The European Commission last
month sent Universal the list of potential competition problems.  Vivendi’s head of personnel, Stephane Roussel, was named
interim chief of SFR, the French mobile-phone business that is
Vivendi’s largest unit.  In his first meeting with unions as CEO of SFR, Roussel
said today that the unit will execute plans in November to
simplify its structure and cut jobs.  SFR, which accounted for 41 percent of Vivendi’s first-
quarter sales, has plans to reduce operating costs by about 350
million euros in 2013, on top of the 450 million euros budgeted
for this year, people with knowledge of the matter have said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jacqueline Simmons in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  