-- Vodafone Said to Talk to Hutchison Over Irish Network Merger
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g   a n d   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2012-07-04T08:31:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/vodafone-said-to-talk-with-hutchison-about-irish-network-merger.html
Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  and  Hutchison
Whampoa Ltd. (13)  are in talks to combine their phone networks in
Ireland, two people with knowledge of the matter said.  While no deal has been signed, the operators are close to
an agreement to pool their infrastructure in a joint venture,
the people said, declining to be identified because the
discussions aren’t public. The phone companies plan to keep
their separate brands and frequencies in Ireland, the people
said. Hutchison Whampoa, controlled by Hong Kong billionaire  Li Ka-shing , owns the Three Ireland operator.  A deal would follow a similar agreement between Vodafone,
the world’s second-biggest mobile-phone operator, and  Telefonica (TEF) 
SA’s O2 unit in the U.K., announced last month, as operators
seek ways to lower costs before deploying new high-speed
networks. In Ireland, former monopoly Eircom Group and O2 signed
a mobile network sharing partnership last year. Hutchison this
year unsuccessfully submitted two separate bids to buy Eircom.  “It’s a smart move to initiate savings while having a high
probability of receiving the green light from regulators,” said
Vincent Maulay, an analyst at Oddo & Cie. in Paris. Vodafone’s
Irish unit may be able to cut operating costs by 10 percent
through the infrastructure merger, he said.  Hans Leung, a spokesman at Hutchison in  Hong Kong , declined
to comment.  Hutchison Whampoa rose 3.9 percent to HK$70.60 in Hong
Kong. Vodafone added 0.8 percent to 181.05 pence on the London
exchange as of 9:23 a.m.  Competing Offerings  With more mobile phones than people in  Europe , the region’s
operators are increasingly relying on sharing and combining
networks to lower costs and offer faster data downloads after
regulators blocked some merger and takeover attempts such as a
combination of Vodafone’s Greek assets with a competitor.  In the U.K., Newbury, England-based Vodafone and Telefonica
are setting up a 50-50 venture with the companies operating and
managing a single network grid while running two competing
nationwide mobile Internet and voice networks.  The average European operator will spend about 2 billion
euros ($2.5 billion) to upgrade an existing network to fourth-
generation network technology to cover 75 percent of a country
with 50 million people, according to researcher Idate.  France Telecom SA (FTE)  merged its Orange network in the U.K.
with  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ’s T-Mobile in 2010, creating Everything
Everywhere in a bid to save more than a total of 4 billion euros
in network, marketing and administrative costs by 2014. That
deal, cutting the number of network operators in the country
from five to four, paved the way for joint procurement projects
and network sharing across all their markets.  Austrian Merger  Telefonica has similar network asset sharing arrangements
in various markets including with T-Mobile in the Czech Republic
and Vodafone in  Spain .  Hutchison has investments in industries including ports,
infrastructure, telecommunications, energy, property and retail
in more than 50 countries, according to its website. The company
 generated  55 percent of its revenue of HK$233.7 billion ($30
billion) last year from Europe, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Hutchison agreed to acquire Orange Austria in February in a
deal valued at 1.3 billion euros. Hutchison plans to merge its
Austrian Three unit with Orange, making it the country’s third-
biggest mobile provider after Telekom Austria AG and Deutsche
Telekom’s T-Mobile Austria. On June 29, the European Commission
opened a full antitrust probe of the deal.  Li, Hong Kong’s richest man, has a wealth of $23.3 billion,
ranking him 15th on the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index  of the
world’s richest individuals.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Browning in London at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net ;
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  