-- Volvo Faces $1.5 Million U.S. Fine for Not Baring Defects
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2012-07-03T17:40:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/volvo-car-fined-1-5-million-by-u-s-for-failing-to-flag-defects.html
--  Volvo Car Corp. (175) , the Swedish
carmaker owned by  China ’s Zhejiang Geely Holding Group Co., was
fined $1.5 million by U.S. auto-safety regulators for failing to
report safety defects.  Volvo, based in Gothenburg,  Sweden , didn’t disclose six
defects that led to recalls in 2010 and one this year within
five business days of determining that a safety flaw exists, as
required by U.S. law, the  National Highway Traffic Safety
Administration  said today in a statement posted on its website.  “It’s critical to the safety of everyone on our roadways
that automakers promptly report safety defects -- and take
immediate action to resolve the issue,” NHTSA Administrator
 David Strickland  said in the statement. “NHTSA expects all
manufacturers to obey the law and address automotive safety
concerns without delay.”  The recalls included tires that weren’t properly labeled,
gearshift levers that can become loose and air bags that may not
deploy in a crash.  “After several conversations with NHTSA about its
reporting rules, Volvo Car Corp. has taken steps to improve the
review process and analysis of potential quality and safety
issues with our vehicles,” Laura DiStefano, a U.S.-based
spokeswoman for Volvo, said in an e-mail.  “We are in agreement with NHTSA’s objective to communicate
with the agency and consumers in a timely manner,” DiStefano
said. “It’s important to note that, in each of the subject
cases, a voluntary recall had been conducted and no injuries,
fatalities or property damage claims were reported.”  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  paid record fines to NHTSA of $48.8
million in 2010 for failing to recall in a timely manner models
affected by defects related to unintended acceleration.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  