-- Wal-Mart’s Castro-Wright Retires Amid Mexico Bribery Probe
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h   a n d   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 2012-07-03T16:33:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/wal-mart-s-castro-wright-retires-amid-mexico-bribery-probe.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  Vice Chairman
Eduardo Castro-Wright, a key figure in a bribery probe at the
company’s Mexico operations, retired on July 1.  The  Justice Department  and U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission are probing allegations the Bentonville, Arkansas-
based retailer approved as much as $24 million in bribes as
recently as 2005, when Castro-Wright ran the Mexico business.
Castro-Wright retired on schedule,  David Tovar , a Wal-Mart
spokesman, said in an e-mail.  His departure marks the end of an 11-year career at the
world’s largest retailer. Besides presiding over rapid growth in
Mexico, where officials allegedly paid bribes to open stores
faster, Castro-Wright also started Project Impact in the U.S., a
failed plan to focus on fast-selling products while thinning the
assortment Wal-Mart was long known for.  “A lot of founder  Sam Walton ’s precepts were hard to find
under Eduardo,” Bernard Sosnick, an analyst with Gilford
Securities Inc. in New York, said today in a phone interview.
“Since he has gone, Sam’s maxims are at work again.”  Castro-Wright, 57, led Wal-Mart de Mexico SA from August
2001 until February 2005. He encouraged the use of bribes so the
retailer could grow in Mexico so quickly that rivals wouldn’t
have time to respond, The New York Times reported in April. The
company has about 2,088 stores in Mexico out of more than 10,000
locations worldwide, according to its annual report.  Castro-Wright was tapped to be chief operating officer of
Wal-Mart’s stores in the U.S. in February 2005, the number two
job at a division that then accounted for about two-thirds of
total revenue and three-quarters of operating profit.  Proven Leader  “Eduardo is a proven leader who has helped Wal-Mart Mexico
achieve outstanding results,”  Mike Duke , at the time head of
Wal-Mart International, said in a January 2005 statement
announcing Castro-Wright’s move to the U.S. In 2006, Fortune
magazine named Castro-Wright one of “Corporate America’s Next
Generation of Leaders,” alongside  Procter & Gamble Co .’s  Robert McDonald .  Castro-Wright was promoted to vice chairman in 2008,
putting him on a short list to succeed then-CEO  Lee Scott . Duke
was named chief executive officer the following year. In June
2010, after Project Impact coincided with falling same-store
sales and customer traffic, Castro-Wright moved to California to
run online operations and global sourcing.  Ecuador Born  Born in Ecuador into a family that operated a local retail
chain, Castro-Wright received a mechanical engineering degree
from  Texas A&M University  in 1975 and began his career at RJR
Nabisco Inc.’s Latin American and Asian units. He later moved to
Honeywell International Inc., where he was president of
Honeywell Transportation and Power Systems Worldwide.  Last year, Texas A&M University’s Center for Retailing
Studies at its Mays Business School awarded Castro-Wright its
“Visionary Merchant Award,” where he was honored for
“positioning the company well for the future.”  Wal-Mart shares rose 1.4 percent to $70.63 at 12:06 p.m. in
New York. The shares had risen 16 percent this year through July
2.  To contact the reporter on this story:  David Welch  in Detroit at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net   Matthew Boyle in London at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  