-- Wall Street Supporters in Congress Unmoved by Libor Probe
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2012-07-03T14:29:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/wall-street-supporters-in-congress-unmoved-by-libor-probe.html
In the U.K., a record fine for
 Barclays Plc (BARC)  has triggered outrage from lawmakers and forced
resignations from the bank’s top executives. In the U.S., Wall
Street’s defenders in Congress are sticking by the industry,
undaunted by the Barclays fine or trading losses of more than $2
billion at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   While the U.S. Senate and House of Representatives have
held hearings on JPMorgan and lawmakers have started to pay
attention to allegations that banks including Barclays may have
colluded to set interest rates, November’s presidential election
and partisan gridlock have left little opening for legislative
moves affecting banks including New York-based JPMorgan,  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Bank of America Corp.   “In terms of legislative calendar, it’s late in the clock
and there’s not a lot to be done here pre-election,” Mark Calabria, a former Republican Senate Banking Committee aide,
said in a telephone interview. “Regardless of what happens at
JPMorgan, Congress is leaving at the beginning of August barring
the financial system itself actually collapsing. And even then,
Congress would probably still take a recess.”  Through two high-profile hearings with JPMorgan Chairman
and Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon , lawmakers’ ideological
and policy fault lines remained bright and unmoved. Some House
and Senate Democrats, including Senator  Jeff Merkley  of Oregon
and Representative  Barney Frank  of Massachusetts, used the New
York-based bank’s $2 billion trading loss as ammunition in the
fight for tighter regulations on Wall Street and funding
increases for their federal overseers.  Parties Polarized  The 2010 Dodd-Frank Act polarizes the parties and the
presidential candidates. Former Massachusetts Governor  Mitt Romney , the presumptive Republican nominee, has pledged to
repeal Dodd-Frank. President  Barack Obama  cites the law as one
of the cornerstone achievements of his first term in office.  Republicans, meanwhile, have seized on losses by JPMorgan’s
chief investment office as evidence that Dodd-Frank puts too
much reliance on regulators who were unable to detect the risks
that led to the losses. They also argue that JPMorgan shouldn’t
serve as a whipping boy because, unlike the 2008 financial
crisis, the bank required no federal bailout after the losses
were disclosed in May.  “This is how the system is supposed to work,”
Representative  Spencer Bachus , the chairman of the House
Financial Services Committee, said in his opening statement of
the panel’s June 19 hearing with Dimon. “Those who take the
risks are the ones who suffer the loss or realize the gain.”  Legislative Options  That doesn’t mean lawmakers don’t have legislative options.
Members of both parties in the House and Senate have introduced
measures to make a broad spectrum of changes to how Wall Street
does business, from shrinking the largest banks and barring bank
officials from serving on the boards of regional Federal Reserve
banks, to repealing or loosening portions of the Dodd-Frank
Act’s restrictions on the trading of derivatives.  The Republican-led Financial Services panel has churned
bills to make changes to Dodd-Frank and has scheduled five
hearings in July to examine the impact of the law on various
sectors of the marketplace.  Still, in an election year with a looming “fiscal cliff”
-- a raft of expiring tax provisions paired with the beginning
of $1.2 trillion in automatic spending cuts over a decade --
proposed changes to Wall Street’s rules are expected to
languish, according to Edward Mills, a financial analyst at
Arlington, Virginia-based FBR Capital Markets.  Crisis, Deadline  “Congress responds to crisis and deadline,” Mills, a
former Democratic aide on banking and financial services issues
in the House and Senate, said in a telephone interview. “Absent
a crisis we’re not going to see anything and the only real
deadline on the horizon is the fiscal cliff issue at the end of
the year.”  Wall Street’s financial influence -- political action
committees from the securities and investment industry have
contributed $6.7 million to lawmakers in the 2012 cycle,
according to the Center for Responsive Politics -- may also play
a role as lawmakers on both sides of the aisle look for a
financial advantage in the final months of their campaigns, said
Calabria, who is now director of financial regulations studies
at the Washington-based Cato Institute, which promotes free
markets.  In the presidential race, Romney, the former head of Bain
Capital LLC, has swung the financial support from the securities
and investment industry heavily in his favor, according to the
Center for Responsive Politics. The Republican has collected
$9.4 million from the industry, while Obama, whose campaign has
focused in part on Romney’s career in private equity, has pulled
in $3.4 million.  One Vote  In the House Republican legislative agenda through August,
which Majority Leader  Eric Cantor  circulated to members in May,
a vote on a measure to audit the Federal Reserve was the lone
piece of legislation scheduled to be considered by the chamber.  In the Senate, Republicans  Mike Crapo  of Idaho and Mike Johanns of Nebraska have tried multiple times to push an
amendment that would bar regulators from imposing margin, or
collateral, requirements to manufacturers and commercial users
of swaps. Senate leaders did not bring the measure, which is
among seven bills making changes to Dodd-Frank already passed by
the House, up for a vote after it was filed as an amendment to
the recently passed farm bill.  That has left measures funding federal regulators like the
Securities and Exchange Commission and the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission as the last legislative vehicles. Frank, the
senior Democrat on the Financial Services panel, has used the
JPMorgan losses and Barclays Plc’s record $451 million fine
after the bank admitted it submitted false London and euro
interbank offering rates, to bolster his case for more funding.  Diamond Resigns  Political pressure from the probe cost Barclays’ chief
executive,  Robert Diamond , the architect of the company’s
banking expansion, his job today. Barclays, in a statement, said
Diamond will step down immediately. Diamond, 60, was followed by
Chief Operating Officer Jerry Del Missier, who also
also stepped down today. Marcus Agius, who said yesterday he
planned to resign as chairman, will lead the search for a new
CEO before leaving, the bank said.  Diamond resigned a day after the government announced a
parliamentary inquiry into the U.K. banking industry. He is due
to be questioned by British lawmakers on the Treasury Select
Committee tomorrow. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne 
welcomed Diamond’s resignation, telling BBC Radio 4 today he
hoped it would be the first step toward a “new culture of
responsibility” in British banking.  Record Fines  Barclays pledged to pay $200 million to the CFTC, $160
million to the Department of Justice, and 59.5 million pounds
($91 million) to the U.K.’s Financial Services Authority. The
fines were the largest in the history of the CFTC and FSA.  “The CFTC’s success in uncovering the outrageous
manipulation of the Libor, and the consequent settlement which
will bring to the U.S. Treasury hundreds of millions of dollars,
demonstrates the value of that agency,” Frank said in a June 29
statement.  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc ,  UBS AG (UBSN) ,
 ICAP Plc (IAP) ,  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  are
among the firms regulators are investigating. A total of 18
banks are surveyed as part of the process of determining Libor
and related rates.  U.S. Senate Democrats are seeking to increase the budget of
the main financial-markets regulators in spending plans that
clash with House Republicans’ efforts to cut funds and rein in
the reach of Obama’s financial regulation law.  Regulation Lag  For lawmakers out of legislative options, the nearest
avenue to have an impact on the rules may be the regulators, who
have fallen behind in drafting and implementing that hundreds of
rules required by Dodd-Frank, according to a recent  report  from
Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP.  Of the 221 rulemaking deadlines that have passed, 140, or
63 percent, have been missed. Regulators have not yet released
proposals for 19 of the 140 missed rules, the firm said in its
July 2 report. That has opened the door for lawmakers to put
pressure on regulators to move closer to their respective
visions of financial regulation.  Two subcommittee chairmen from the Financial Services
committee, Representatives Scott Garrett of New Jersey and  Randy Neugebauer  of Texas, pressed CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler  in a
June 20 letter to propose a rule on the international reach of
swaps regulations instead of the informal guidance the agency
eventually released on June 29. The lawmakers, who have pushed
for the CFTC to reduce the reach of the new regulations, asked
for a rule, which  would require cost-benefit analysis.  Volcker Rule  Merkley, the Oregon Democrat, has used the JPMorgan losses
as ammunition in his continued effort to tighten the
implementation of the pending ban on proprietary trading, or so-
called Volcker rule, included in Dodd-Frank. Merkley, a co-
author of the provision and member of the Senate Banking
Committee, has pressed Dimon and federal regulators on the rule
since the bank’s losses were first disclosed.  “It is high time that regulators put forward an airtight
Volcker Rule to give taxpayers, shareholders, and, frankly, the
banks themselves the certainty that banks are in the business of
extending credit to Main Street America, and not in the business
of making high-risk, hedge fund-like bets in London,” Merkley
said in a June 28 statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  