-- Wendel Sale of Materis Division Said to Stall After Bids Too Low
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y   a n d   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y
-- 2012-07-03T19:07:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/wendel-sale-of-materis-division-said-to-stall-after-bids-too-low.html
Wendel (MF) ’s sale of part of building
materials supplier Materis SA has stalled after bids didn’t meet
the company’s expectations, three people with knowledge of the
matter said.  Buyout firm Astorg Partners SAS submitted a bid for
aluminates maker Kerneos, while Axa Private Equity pulled out of
the sale process, said the people, who asked not to be named
because the information isn’t public.  Imerys SA (NK)  also expressed
an interest, they said.  Wendel aim to get as much as 700 million euros ($883
million) for Kerneos and it is also sounding interest in Chryso,
another Materis unit that makes cement-admixtures, people
familiar with the matter said in April. The bids for Kerneos
weren’t firm offers, and talks may resume at a later stage, one
of the people said today.  Concerns that  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis and volatile
financial markets are harming Europe’s economic recovery weighed
on Wendel’s attempt to exit the Materis businesses, acquired in
2006. Materis had planned to sell at least one of four divisions
to reduce its 1.9 billion-euro debt. Maturities were extended
last May in exchange for higher interest payments.  “Wendel and Materis pursue the strategic review of
Materis’ portfolio, with a view to selling a business in the
coming year if the numerous expressions of interest resulted in
an attractive offer under favorable financial and industrial
terms,” Wendel said today in a statement.  A spokeswoman for Wendel declined to comment further on the
sales.  Indicative Bids  Kerneos , which makes cement aluminates, had sales of 360
million euros last year, up 8 percent on a like-for-like basis.
Its products are used as binders for cement used in
construction, pipe anti-corrosion protection, refractories and
steel production.  Materis’ other three divisions make mortars, admixtures and
paints. Wendel has also received indicative bids from industrial
and financial buyers for cement admixtures maker  Chryso , two of
the people said. Chryso had sales of 234 million euros in 2011.  As part of the May agreement with Materis’s 199 lenders,
Wendel and its co-investors agreed to inject 25 million euros of
equity to finance Materis’ development. Wendel also agreed to
provide a 25 million-euro liquidity line which may be raised to
50 million euros in 2013, and would be canceled and repaid after
the sale of one of the company’s divisions.  Wendel, which is based in Paris, bought the company for
about 2 billion euros six years ago, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Wendel and Materis’s managers had to inject 45
million euros of cash in 2009 as part of a first debt
restructuring.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net ;
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in London at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  