-- Williams Finds Her Game Against Wimbledon Defending Champion
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-07-03T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/williams-finds-her-game-against-wimbledon-defending-champion.html
It took the defending champion to
help  Serena Williams  find her game at  Wimbledon .  Williams, the four-time title holder, beat Petra Kvitova of
the Czech Republic 6-3, 7-5 in her best match of the tournament
and reached the semifinals.  “You can’t play a defending Wimbledon champion or Grand
Slam champion and not elevate your game,” the 30-year-old
American said in a news conference after playing her first match
under the Centre Court roof. “I had to weed out the riffraff
and just get serious.”  Williams produced 27 winners by aggressively stepping in to
take the ball early, hit 13 aces and never had her serve broken.
Not over-hitting returns as she had in previous rounds, Williams
broke down the left-hander’s serve with well-placed backhand
returns deep into the corner. Known mostly for her power,
Williams used a touch forehand drop shot to hold for 5-2 in the
first set. She took the match with a service winner.  “That’s why she’s the great champion, because she knows
what she needs to play in the important points,” Kvitova, 22,
told reporters after losing her crown.  In men’s quarterfinal action today at Wimbledon, six-time
champion  Roger Federer  of  Switzerland  plays Russia’s  Mikhail Youzhny  and  Spain ’s David Ferrer faces Andy Murray, the No. 4
seed from Britain. Defending men’s champion Novak Djokovic of
 Serbia  plays  Germany ’s  Florian Mayer , while  France ’s Jo-Wilfried Tsonga meets another German, Philipp Kohlschreiber.  At 5-4 down in the second set, Williams saved a set point
with a service winner and held serve by drilling a forehand into
her opponent at the net. Williams broke serve in the next game
and then produced three aces in her final service game.  “I didn’t play badly, she just served very well,” Kvitova
said.  French Open  Five weeks ago in Paris, Williams was knocked out in the
opening round of the  French Open  by 111th-ranked Virginie Razzano, the first time in her career Williams had failed to win
her opening match at a major. Williams had been leading by a set
and 5-1 in the tiebreaker when the French player regained the
initiative and went on to win the match despite suffering from
cramps in the final games.  After struggling through three-set matches in her two
previous rounds at Wimbledon, a chat with her father, Richard,
sister and five-time champion Venus and coach Patrick
Mouratoglou gave Williams “calmness of mind,” she said.  “All three of those got me really motivated to do better
and be the player that I know I can be,” said Williams, who won
the last of her 13 major singles titles two years ago at
Wimbledon before missing almost a whole year with injuries and
surgery for blood clots.  Williams will face the second seed, Australian Open
champion  Victoria Azarenka , in the semifinals. Williams cast
herself in the role of underdog against the Belarussian.  ‘Really Relaxed’  “She’s had a better year than I have,” Williams told
reporters. “She’s been so successful already, winning a Grand
Slam. Going against a player like that, I feel like she almost
has an advantage. That makes me really relaxed and I can just
kind of hit.”  No woman older than 30 has won a major singles title since
 Martina Navratilova  took her ninth and final Wimbledon
championship in 1990.  “I still have hopefully two more matches to play and
win,” Williams said. “That’s my goal.”  Although Williams turned pro at the age of 14, she said her
desire to win Grand Slam titles hasn’t changed.  “I hate losing,” she said. “If I lose, I don’t keep the
trophy. So semifinal, it’s great in a way, but at the end of the
day if you’re not first, you’re last.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at Wimbledon through the London sports desk at
   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  