-- Worst Performer Usiminas Rallies on Report of Price Rise
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 2012-07-03T19:52:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/worst-performer-usiminas-rallies-on-report-of-price-rise.html
Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais
SA , the second worst-performer in  Brazil ’s main stock index this
year, surged on a report that the steelmaker is raising prices,
easing concern that demand from the  auto industry  is shrinking.  Preferred shares of Usiminas, as the  Belo Horizonte ,
Brazil-based company is known, jumped 8.8 percent to 6.80 reais
at 4:41 p.m. in  Sao Paulo , the biggest rise since August 12. The
preferred stock has lost 33 percent this year while the common
stock has tumbled 53 percent. The Bovespa index is down 1.8
percent over the same period.  Brazil’s second-largest steelmaker by output is increasing
prices for most products by 5 percent to 7 percent, Reuters
reported today, citing two people familiar with the matter that
it didn’t identify. Usiminas declined to comment when contacted
by Bloomberg.  “The share has suffered a lot, losses were very strong in
the first half and they also had poor earnings so news like this
is enough for them to rebound,” Aloisio Lemos, an analyst at
brokerage Agora Corretora, said by telephone from  Rio de
Janeiro . “The rise is linked to the strong previous drop.”  Usiminas led gains by commodity producers in Brazil as
global raw material prices reached a five-week high on
speculation that central banks in the U.S.,  Europe  and China
will ease monetary policy to spur their economies, boosting
demand for raw materials.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 raw materials
rose 3.4 percent to 617.52 and earlier reached 618.42, the
highest since May 25. Crude oil surged as much as 5.1 percent,
and industrial metals including aluminum jumped.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in Rio de Janeiro at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  