-- Xstrata Holder Knight Vinke Seeks Higher Glencore Offer
-- B y   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n
-- 2012-07-03T16:52:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/xstrata-holder-knight-vinke-seeks-higher-glencore-offer.html
Xstrata Plc shareholder  Knight Vinke 
Asset Management LLC joined Qatar Holding LLC in stepping up
pressure on  Glencore International Plc (GLEN)  to improve the terms of
the year’s biggest takeover.  Glencore needs to increase its bid by 16 percent to combine
with Xstrata, said Knight Vinke, which holds about 0.5 percent
of Xstrata according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “An exchange ratio of 3.25 would represent more
appropriate terms” as Glencore’s February offer of 2.8 of its
shares for each of Xstrata’s doesn’t represent fair value and
doesn’t include a premium to reflect the change of control,
Knight Vinke said in a letter today.  Knight Vinke unlocks “value by engaging both in private
and in public with the management, board and advisors,”
according to its website. In the past two years the New York-
based activist shareholder has written public letters to
management of the world’s second-largest retailer Carrefour SA
and Italian energy company  Eni SpA (ENI)  to push its views. It has
previously led campaigns to boost value at companies such as GDF
Suez SA, Electrabel SA,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , Kesa Electricals
Plc and HSBC Holdings Plc.  Standard Life Plc (SL/)  and  Schroders Plc (SDR)  have also called for
the initial bid to be sweetened. Knight Vinke’s stance takes
those opposed to the terms to more than 14 percent of Xstrata
shareholders.  Blocking Vote  Only 16.48 percent of shareholders’ votes are required to
block the 16.6 billion-pound ($26 billion) so-called merger of
equals as U.K. takeover rules prevent Glencore from voting its
34 percent stake in Xstrata.  Qatar, which spent $4 billion amassing an 11 percent
Xstrata stake, on June 26 asked Glencore to raise its bid from
2.8 to 3.25. Glencore and Qatar advisers are meeting over the
valuation, people familiar with the talks said. Disquiet among
some shareholders over the deal intensified after Xstrata said
it planned to pay top executives 172.8 million pounds in bonuses
for their loyalty.  “Our concerns were exacerbated by the proposed management
retention packages which, even as amended, represent a premium
being paid to Xstrata management which is unavailable to
shareholders,” Knight Vinke said. “We intend to vote against
the current proposals.”  Glencore and Xstrata declined to comment when contacted by
Bloomberg. Xstrata rose 0.3 percent to 805 pence at the close in
 London  while Glencore added 1.8 percent to 304.5 pence.  Bonuses Changed  Xstrata on June 27 tied bonuses for its most-senior
executives for staying on at the company to cost-savings targets
and made all bonuses payable in shares after some holders
attacked them as excessive.  “We wrote to the board of Xstrata outlining this view in
February 2012 and have met with management of both companies, as
well as Xstrata non-executive Board members and advisers,”
Knight Vinke said. “We have also spoken to a large number of
fellow shareholders and we believe that many share the view that
this transaction does, indeed, constitute a change of control.
It is our belief that any such change of control should be
accompanied by an appropriate premium being paid to shareholders
for that control.”  Both companies will set new dates for shareholder votes on
the transaction originally scheduled for July 11 and 12.  Xstrata (XTA) 
on June 27 said it expects the deal to be completed in early
October. The companies had originally targeted the third
quarter.  Proposed Split  Glencore, the commodity trader based in Baar,  Switzerland ,
is seeking to add Zug, Switzerland-based Xstrata’s copper, coal
and zinc operations to its businesses. The takeover is the
largest announced deal so far this year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  In a letter to the Financial Times last year, Knight Vinke
said Glencore should consider splitting its mining and trading
units ahead of a possible merger with Xstrata.  “A merger of Xstrata with Glencore’s mining business
(without its trading activities) would at least have the merit
of being easier to value and would create a true competitor for
the likes of  BHP Billiton ,  Rio Tinto  and Anglo American,” it
said. “It would also remove some of the issues concerning
management and governance.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Firat Kayakiran in London at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  