-- Yen Weakens on Prospects for Stimulus by Central Banks
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-07-03T16:00:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/yen-dollar-fall-as-asian-stocks-gain-aussie-advances.html
The yen weakened most of its major
counterparts as investors sought higher-yielding assets amid
speculation central banks will step up efforts to spur growth,
reducing demand for havens.  The Dollar Index fluctuated before jobs data this week that
lenders such as Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. said may add
to the case for more stimulus by the  Federal Reserve . The
 European Central Bank  will cut its key interest rate to a record
low, a Bloomberg News survey forecast.  South Africa ’s rand
climbed to a seven-week high as risk appetite grew, while
 Brazil ’s real tumbled as the nation’s industrial output fell.  “They’re expecting the ECB to cut rates, and they’re
expecting the Bank of England to announce more quantitative
easing,” or large-scale asset purchases, Adrian Schmidt, a
foreign-exchange strategist at Lloyds Banking Group Plc in
 London , said in a phone interview. “The inclination is maybe
it’s worth trying to put some risk on.”  Japan ’s currency weakened 0.7 percent to 100.72 per euro at
11:57 a.m.  New York  time. The yen slid 0.4 percent to 79.79 per
dollar. The greenback fell 0.4 percent against the 17-nation
currency to $1.2622.  The rand extended gains and the euro advanced after
Commerce Department data showed orders placed with U.S.
factories rose 0.7 percent in May, the first increase in three
months. The  median  forecast of economists in a Bloomberg News
survey called for a 0.1 percent advance. Stocks rose, with the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gaining 0.6 percent.  ECB, Fed  The ECB and BOE will announce policy decisions on July 5.
ECB officials will lower their  main interest rate  by a quarter-
percentage point to 0.75 percent on July 5, economists in a
Bloomberg survey forecast. Weak employment figures in the U.S.
may prompt the Fed to initiate fresh stimulus, BNP Paribas SA
said. Labor Department nonfarm payrolls data are due July 6.  “We’re looking for further dollar weakness, and a lot of
it has to do with the market starting to price in quantitative
easing,”  Mary Nicola , a currency strategist at BNP Paribas SA
in New York, said in a telephone interview. “It’s all going to
be data dependent. Nonfarm payroll on Friday is going to be
key.”  The South African rand reached its strongest level since
May 11 versus the greenback as speculation central banks will
ease monetary policy boosted demand for commodities that account
for almost half of the nation’s exports. The currency gained 1
percent to 8.0750 per dollar and touched 8.0619.  Canada’s Dollar  The Canadian dollar advanced against most of its major
counterparts as crude oil, the nation’s largest export, rose to
the strongest level against the U.S. currency since May 17. It
climbed as much as 0.5 percent to C$1.0121.  Crude for August delivery rose to as high as $88.04 a
barrel in New York, the highest since May 31.  Brazil’s real tumbled amid speculation the country’s
central bank will deepen interest-rate cuts after a report
showed industrial production fell more than forecast. The
currency dropped 0.7 percent to 1.9987 per dollar. It rallied
yesterday as much as 1.2 percent after the central bank
supported it with currency-swap auctions three times last week.  U.S. payrolls added 90,000 workers last month after gaining
69,000 in May, a Bloomberg survey forecast before the Labor
Department data this week. May’s increase was less than half the
150,000-job gain that economists had forecast, and the
 unemployment rate  rose to 8.2 percent, from 8.1 percent.  Fed Purchases  The Fed bought $2.3 trillion of bonds from December 2008 to
June 2011 in its first two rounds of quantitative easing,
seeking to reduce the unemployment rate, which has stayed above
8 percent since February 2009. It will increase asset purchases
in September, according to Bank of America Corp., one of the 21
primary dealers that trade directly with the Fed.  “With a 90,000 increase in nonfarm payrolls, the
unemployment rate will rise,” said Noriaki Murao, managing
director in New York at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ. “The U.S
labor market is flashing a red light, with the prospects of QE3
rising.”  The U.S. currency may face resistance at its June high of
80.62 yen, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Resistance
refers to an area on a price graph where analysts anticipate
orders to sell a security to be clustered.  Dollar Index  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six U.S.
trading partners, fell 0.2 percent to 81.724 after rising as
much as 0.2 percent.  The greenback fell 2.9 percent over the past month against
nine developed-nation counterparts tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The yen was the worst performer,
with a 5.2 percent decline, while the Aussie gained 3.7 percent.  Australia ’s dollar touched a two-month high today versus
the greenback as data showed the nation’s home building
approvals surged in May, adding to signs that the economy is
gaining momentum. It pared gains after the  Reserve Bank  of
Australia kept  interest rates  unchanged and said a subdued
international outlook meant the stance of monetary policy
remains appropriate.  The Aussie rose 0.4 percent to $1.0289 and touched $1.0291,
the highest level since May 3.  The pound weakened against a majority of its most-traded
peers after an index showed U.K. construction contracted in
June. The  Bank of England ’s Monetary Policy Committee will raise
its target for bond purchases by 50 billion pounds ($79 billion)
to 375 billion pounds on July 5, a Bloomberg survey forecast.  Sterling fell 0.3 percent to 80.36 pence per euro and was
little changed at $1.5676.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  