-- Euro Falls on German Services as Krona Hits 12-Year High
-- B y   D a v i d   G o o d m a n   a n d   N e a l   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-07-04T21:06:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/yen-remains-lower-on-speculation-central-banks-to-boost-stimulus.html
The euro weakened after German
services contracted last month, adding to speculation the
 European Central Bank  will reduce  interest rates  tomorrow.  The shared European currency dropped versus 12 of its 16
major counterparts as a report showed euro-area services and
manufacturing output shrank for a fifth month in June. Sweden’s
krona strengthened to the highest level against the euro since
December 2000 after the central bank kept rates unchanged, with
some economists predicting a cut. U.S. markets were shut for the
Independence Day holiday.  “The euro is weaker after the German services index fell
back below the 50 level,” said  Jeremy Stretch , head of currency
strategy at Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce in  London .
“Momentum in the German economy continues to dissipate and that
could have an impact on assumptions for the ECB rate decision
tomorrow when markets are already expecting a rate cut.”  The euro fell 0.5 percent to 100.07 yen as of 5 p.m.  New
York  time. The 17-nation currency declined 0.6 percent to
$1.2527. The yen dropped 0.1 percent to 79.86 per dollar.  The  Dollar Index , which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six U.S.
trading partners, rose 0.5 percent to 82.195.  The ECB will cut its  main refinancing rate  by a quarter-
percentage point to 0.75 percent tomorrow, according to the
median estimate in a survey of 63 economists by Bloomberg News.  German Services  A final reading on a German  services index  was 49.9 in
June, versus an earlier estimate of 50.3, according to London-
based Markit Economics. A reading below 50 indicates
contraction. Markit’s euro-area composite index of services and
manufacturing industries was 46.4 last month.  The euro rose the most this year against the dollar on June
29 after after European leaders at a Brussels summit eased terms
on loans to Spanish banks, taking a step toward resolving the
region’s debt crisis and boosting demand for the shared
currency. The euro has fallen 1 percent since then.  “A lot of fear had come out of the market after the
European Union summit, but now the feeling is that the problems
aren’t going to go away,”  Steve Butler , managing director in
Toronto at  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) ’s Scotia Capital unit, said in a
phone interview. “The market is scratching their heads
wondering, is there any good news?”  Krona Rises  Sweden’s currency gained for the sixth time in the past
seven days versus the euro as the Stockholm-based central bank
left the repo rate at 1.5 percent, after cutting it twice since
December. The decision was predicted by 15 of the 20 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. The rest forecast a reduction to 1.25
percent.  The krona appreciated 0.9 percent to 8.6578 per euro after
strengthening to 8.6490.  Implied volatility of three-month options for Group-of-
Seven currencies fell as low as 9.35 percent today, the least
since May 4, the JPMorgan G7  Volatility Index  showed.  The pound fell against the dollar for a third day after a
report showed U.K. services growth slowed more than forecast in
June.  The  Bank of England  will raise its target for bond
purchases by 50 billion pounds ($78 billion) to 375 billion
pounds tomorrow, according to the median estimate of analysts in
a Bloomberg News survey.  ‘Losing Momentum’  “Even the service sector is losing momentum and that’s not
good for growth,” said  Lee Hardman , a foreign-exchange
strategist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in London. “The
Bank of England’s focus is shifting toward supporting growth.
They will probably expand their gilt purchase program tomorrow
and the pound will continue to weaken.”  Sterling declined 0.6 percent to $1.5589. The pound will
depreciate to a two-year low of $1.50 over the next three
months, Hardman predicted.  A gauge of  services activity  based on a survey fell to an
eight-month low of 51.3 from 53.3 in May,  Markit Economics  and
the  Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply  said in London
today. The median forecast of 25 economists in a Bloomberg News
survey was a reading of 52.9. Markit said respondents noted
“fragile” demand.  The U.K. currency may find support at its June 1 low of
$1.5269, according to data compiled by Bloomberg based on
technical indicators.  Support refers to an area where analysts expect buy orders
to be clustered. The stronger the support, the more selling is
needed to break below it.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net ;
Neal Armstrong in London at 
 narmstrong8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  