-- Zell Said to Seek $1 Billion for New Private-Equity Fund
-- B y   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r
-- 2012-07-03T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-03/zell-said-to-seek-1-billion-for-new-private-equity-fund.html
Billionaire  Sam Zell ’s Equity Group
Investments LLC is seeking $1 billion for its next distressed
private-equity fund, said two people familiar with the matter.  Zell Opportunities Fund II LP will make distressed
investments including asset acquisitions, secondary-market
purchases and rescue capital for cash-strapped companies,
according to the people, who asked not to be identified because
the information isn’t public.  Terry Holt, a spokeswoman at Zell’s Chicago-based firm,
declined to comment.  Equity Group Investments is among a number of firms raising
money to take advantage of buying opportunities as economies
struggle. Oaktree Capital Group LLC, the world’s largest
distressed-debt investor, is seeking as much as $6 billion for
its latest distressed-debt fund. Avenue Capital Group LLC, co-
founded by  Marc Lasry , has raised more than $2 billion for its
second European distressed-debt fund.  Zell’s firm, which is committing $100 million to the new
pool, gathered its previous distressed private-equity fund in
2009 to take advantage of the credit crunch in the aftermath of
the Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. collapse.  The first fund, which has invested $666 million, was
generating 1.2 times capital and a 16 percent net internal rate
of return as of March 31, the people said. About 76 percent of
the fund was in corporate debt and the rest in real estate,
according to one of the people.  Fund I owns a stake in Texas utility Energy Future Holdings
Corp., the people said. The company, formerly known as TXU
Corp., was taken private by KKR & Co. and TPG Capital for $43.2
billion in 2007, the biggest leveraged buyout in history. Energy
Future has reported five consecutive quarterly losses.  Other investments include Blockbuster LLC, Domino’s Pizza
Inc., Hilton Hotels Holdings Corp. and Marriott International
Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sabrina Willmer in  New York  at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  