-- Four Questions for Barclays
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-07-05T23:24:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/-where-were-the-controls-is-the-question-for-barclays.html
If anyone could get  Robert Diamond ,
the former chief executive officer of Barclays Plc, to explain
the Libor-fixing  scandal  to a British parliamentary panel on
Wednesday, it was Andrea Leadsom, a Conservative member and a
former Barclays banker. Although their interchange generated
some heat, it didn’t yield enough light.  Yes, Diamond was contrite, repeatedly condemning the
conduct of the 14 traders involved. Yes, he lost his job. But
not once did he let Leadsom and her fellow MPs delve into the
bank’s internal operations, including its compliance process,
risk-management procedures and managerial oversight to
understand how Barclays staff could have falsified  interest
rates  used to price $800 trillion in derivatives and corporate
and consumer loans, with no one noticing.  Without these details, regulators and lawmakers will remain
at sea over how to prevent such behavior at  Barclays (BARC)  and the
dozen or so other banks about to get pulled into the dragnet.
Now that U.K. lawmakers have voted to conduct a parliamentary
probe, here’s what they should ask Diamond:  -- “Where were the controls?” In four short words, the MPs
should have demanded to know why various checks and balances,
which all banks must have, failed at every level. How could
bankers and traders, for almost five years, get away with
rigging Libor submissions to make sure their derivative bets
would pay off? As Diamond would have us believe, knowledge of
the rate-fixing never went beyond trading desk supervisors. If
that’s true, it reveals a lack of internal controls that borders
on malfeasance.  It’s especially curious that Diamond, who more than most
understood the culture of traders, having spent most of his long
banking career either on trading desks or overseeing them,
didn’t more closely monitor those at Barclays.  For example, Barclays has a compliance operation whose
staff has the ability to check books and records, including e-
mails and phone calls, most of which are archived for this very
purpose. They can and often make surprise spot checks. What
exactly did Diamond ask them to do? Other employees are
similarly empowered to look behind traders’ books to avoid
losses and keep liabilities in check. These include the risk-
management staff, outside auditors and legal counsel. Did any of
them conduct routine, or even occasional, inspections?  -- “When did you first learn about the falsifications?”
Actually, we know the answer to this one. Diamond claimed at the
hearing that he learned only in mid-June about e-mails showing
that his bank had made false submissions on interest rates used
to set the London interbank offered rate. (Libor is derived from
banks’ own estimates of what it would cost to borrow from one
another in various currencies and timeframes.) The e-mails, he
said, made him “physically sick.”  We have to take him at his word, though his answer
stretches credulity. The MPs could have asked more probing
questions about a telephone conversation Diamond had with  Paul Tucker , a senior Bank of England official, in October 2008,
during the financial crisis. Diamond at the time wrote a note to
himself that Tucker said it “did not always need to be the case
that we appeared as high as we have recently,” referring to
Barclays’ daily Libor submissions. Diamond said he thought
Tucker was giving him a heads-up that the U.K. government might
be thinking of nationalizing Barclays if it couldn’t fund
itself. He didn’t think the central bank was telling him to
fudge his numbers so the bank would look healthier.  Documents made public Tuesday, however, show that Jerry Del Missier, the then-president of Barclays’ investment bank
concluded the opposite -- that an instruction had come down from
the central bank to get quotes in line with those of other
banks. The next day, the borrowing rates submitted by Barclays
fell sharply. Here’s the question Diamond should have been
compelled to answer: If you knew your Libor submissions were
high enough to worry the government about Barclays’ viability,
didn’t you check to see what your submissions were the next day,
and every day thereafter? And when they suddenly dropped, didn’t
you ask why?  -- “Why didn’t you examine Barclays’ numbers?” After the
conversation with the  Bank of England  official, Diamond said he
asked Barclays’ then-CEO to relay to the government that other
banks were understating their borrowing costs. If he knew this,
why didn’t Diamond ask to see the calculations his staff had
been submitting? Or at the very least, why didn’t he ask the
head of compliance about it?  -- “Do you think you should forfeit the 14.8 million pounds
($23 million) in future share awards, or give back some of the
120 million pounds ($186 million) in salary, benefits and
bonuses you’ve received since 2005?” Diamond was asked about the
share awards he’s due to receive once he leaves. He deflected
the question by saying it was up to the board, not him.
Considering the extent of what he seems to have missed,
shouldn’t clawing back past compensation be on the table, too?
In the end, that may be the only way regulators, lawmakers and
taxpayers can ward off such behavior. In case the board needs
help with the answer, it’s “yes.”  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on the best outcome of  Libya’s
messy elections ;  Jonathan Weil  on  what else might be amiss  at
Barclays; Stephen L. Carter on the  uselessness of the vice
presidency ;  Noah Feldman  explains why  liberals should be happy 
with the  Supreme Court ;  Enrique Krauze  on  democracy and new
leadership  in  Mexico ; Vali Nasr on the U.S.  apology to Pakistan ;
William Pesek on  economic development in the Mekong River
region .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 