-- Who Should Be Romney’s Vice President? Wrong Question
-- B y   S t e p h e n   L .   C a r t e r
-- 2012-07-05T22:45:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/a-better-way-to-choose-a-vice-presidency.html
With  Mitt Romney , the presumptive
Republican presidential nominee, well into the process of
selecting a running mate, and pundits breathlessly speculating
on how this or that candidate might help or hurt the ticket,
it’s a good moment to pause and ask: Why do we have a vice
president in the first place?  The office, after all, is fairly useless, and  historians 
and  law professors  have long made strong cases for getting rid
of it. But consider the prospect of reforming it instead.
Perhaps we can change the constitutional status of the vice
president in ways that could improve our politics.  The vice president presides over the Senate and can cast a
vote to break a tie. Other than that, it’s hard to explain
exactly what the vice presidency is for, except for the unseemly
death watch implicit in the rules of presidential succession.
 John Adams , the first to hold the post,  called it  “the most
insignificant office that ever the invention of man contrived or
his imagination conceived.” John Nance Garner, who gave up his
role as speaker of the House to become  Franklin Roosevelt ’s
first vice president, famously observed that the office “isn’t
worth a bucket of warm spit” -- although “spit”  is probably not 
what he actually said.  Poorly Designed  As legal scholars have pointed out, the vice presidency is
an office so poorly thought out that should a vice president
ever be impeached, the presiding officer at the trial will be
... the vice president! Yet this “ glaring error ” may not even be
the biggest problem with the original design for the office. The
vice president also presides over the counting of the electoral
votes -- a role Thomas Jefferson seems  to have exploited  to his
own benefit.  We have come a long way. Our modern, activist vision of the
vice presidency is ascribed variously to President  Harry Truman 
(who insisted that the  National Security Act of 1947  make the
vice president a member of the National Security Council) and
President  Jimmy Carter , who relied heavily on Vice President
 Walter Mondale  and, for the first time, gave the vice president
an office in the West Wing. As Joel K. Goldstein has  pointed
out , this modern vice presidency is attractive to the
politically ambitious because of the ways it enhances the
reputation of its occupant. (About one in three U.S. presidents
were formerly vice presidents.)  Of course, if one accepts the Framers’ vision, in which the
vice president’s principal duties involve the Senate, then he is
an official of the legislative not the executive branch, a
possibility that has led to the mischievous but not entirely
unpersuasive  suggestion  that it is a violation of the separation
of powers for the vice president to perform executive duties
delegated by the president. ( Dick Cheney , while serving as
 George W. Bush ’s vice president, created a furor by trying to
avoid certain national security regulations by asserting that he
was indeed a member of the legislative branch.)  All of this matters only because we have a vice president.
It isn’t clear that we need one. After all, Congress is
empowered under the Constitution to provide for presidential
succession, meaning that in the absence of a vice president, the
House and Senate would specify who takes over should the
president die. (Indeed,  such statutes  already exist, explaining
what happens should both the president die or resign and the
vice president be unavailable to succeed him.)  On the other hand, should we decide that we like having a
vice president who is deeply involved in policy, let’s at least
improve the manner of his selection.  Separately Elected  Several  legal scholars  have proposed  over the years  that we
elect the vice president separately -- that is, that voters be
able to cast a ballot for a president and a separate ballot for
a vice president. This is an intriguing proposition that
certainly would enhance the attention we pay to the office, even
though it might have led to such anomalies as a Barack Obama-
Sarah Palin or a Bush-Joseph Lieberman administration.  Another possibility, one I happen to like, is that we
repeal, in pertinent part, the  12th Amendment , adopted in
response to the contested election of 1800. Before the
amendment, to oversimplify a bit, each member of the Electoral
College cast two votes, and the person who finished second
became vice president. Thus in 1796, Adams received the most
votes and became president. His opponent,  Thomas Jefferson ,
finished second in the balloting, because the Federalist
electors couldn’t agree on a vice president. Thus Jefferson
became vice president.  The crisis arose four years later when Jefferson and his
running mate, Aaron Burr, tied in the Electoral College, and
Burr then refused to yield, throwing the decision into the  House
of Representatives . Alarmed by this result, Congress swiftly
proposed, and the states immediately adopted, the 12th
Amendment, providing that the electors would vote separately for
president and vice president. This system is still in use today.  A better idea is to dump the model that has led to all the
confusion. Let’s give each elector one vote, not two, and return
to the rule that the person who receives the second-highest
number of votes becomes vice president. Nobody would run for
vice president; parties would nominate only a presidential
candidate. Under this system, Obama would still be president,
but  John McCain  would be vice president.  The advantages would be considerable. The losing party from
the general election would have representation of a sort in the
executive branch. It would not be wise for the president simply
to shunt his vice president aside, because the vice president
would retain the power to break ties in the Senate. In our
closely divided era, this power is considerable, and the
president would doubtless want to keep his vice president happy.  Enormously Difficult  Similarly, it would be in the interest of the vice
president to avoid partisanship and obstruction, lest he lose
all possibility of influence. This commonality of interests
might mean that each party gains a built-in emissary to the
other, someone able to carry messages and negotiate in a climate
so polarized that communication between the parties is
enormously difficult. A wise president would include his vice
president in his councils of policy (if not of politics), and,
by statute, the vice president would remain a member of the
National Security Council.  Thus the administration might be able to avoid the problem
that too often plagues the party in the White House:
deliberating in a bubble, in which every voice is an echo of
what everyone in the room already believes.  In  Washington  these days, partisan rigidity and the
resulting gridlock make our politics embarrassingly bad and our
governance painful to watch. Transforming the vice presidency
into an office whose institutionalized function is to bring the
opposition inside might help to break the logjam.  (Stephen L. Carter is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
professor of law at  Yale University . He is the author of “The
Violence of Peace: America’s Wars in the Age of Obama,” and his
latest novel is “The Impeachment of  Abraham Lincoln .” The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on the best outcome of  Libya’s
messy elections  and what ex-Barclays CEO  Robert Diamond   should
have been asked  by members of Parliament;  Jonathan Weil  on  what
else might be amiss  at Barclays;  Noah Feldman  explains why
 liberals should be happy  with the  Supreme Court ;  Enrique Krauze 
on  democracy and new leadership  in Mexico; Vali Nasr on the U.S.
 apology to Pakistan ; William Pesek on  economic development in
the Mekong River region .  To contact the writer of this article:
Stephen L. Carter at  stephen.carter@yale.edu  or @StepCarter on
Twitter.  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 