-- Activision Co-Chairman to Get $15 Million Bonus in Buyout
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s   a n d   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-07-06T12:19:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/activision-co-chairman-to-get-15-million-bonus-in-buyout.html
Activision Blizzard Inc., (ATVI)  the video-
game company put on the block by majority shareholder  Vivendi
SA (VIV) , gave Co-Chairman  Brian Kelly  a new contract that pays him a
bonus of $15 million or more if the company gets bought.  Kelly, who has helped run  Santa Monica , California-based
Activision since 1991, will be entitled to the cash bonus if
there’s a change in control or if he’s fired without cause up to
six months before, the company said in a regulatory filing
yesterday. Kelly stands to get a minimum of $15 million or 50
percent of a similar bonus paid to Chief Executive Officer Bobby Kotick, whichever is higher.  France’s Vivendi, which controls 61 percent of the company,
is seeking a buyer for its $8.2 billion stake, a person with
knowledge of the situation said last week. Activision is the
largest video-game publisher and created the “Call of Duty”
and “Prototype” series. The bonuses may encourage management
to go along with a sale, said  Claudio Aspesi , a London-based
analyst at  Sanford C. Bernstein .  “It incentivizes management not to get nervous and leave
while things play out, and it incentivizes management to avoid
boycotting” the process, Aspesi said in an interview. “This is
a step in the right direction because it even more clearly tilts
the balance of the assets toward making Vivendi a telco-only
company.”  Strategy Clash  Vivendi, whose biggest unit is French mobile-phone business
SFR, ousted Chief Executive Officer  Jean-Bernard Levy  last week
triggered by a clash with the board over strategy. Levy had been
criticized by shareholders asking for plans to tackle the low
valuation of Paris-based Vivendi, which also owns  Universal
Music Group  and phone businesses in Morocco and  Brazil , as the
company’s  stock price  hit a nine-year low in April.  Still, Vivendi shareholders may not see the benefits of an
Activision sale right away, Aspesi said. Most of the cash from a
divestiture would likely be used to reduce debt and maintain the
company’s credit ratings, he said.  All three major ratings company have warned Vivendi that
its debt rating could be threatened if it doesn’t reduce
liabilities. Vivendi’s net debt increased to about 12.5 billion
euros ($15.5 billion) at the end of March, nearing the level
reached a decade ago.  Should no buyer emerge for Activision, Vivendi will sell
shares on the market, one person with knowledge of the situation
has said.  Vivendi rose 0.2 percent to 14.87 euros in Paris trading as
of 1:31 p.m. Activision, the largest U.S. video-game publisher,
 fell  2.7 percent to $12.13 yesterday in  New York . The shares
have dropped 1.5 percent this year.  CEO Contract  In March, Activision’s board approved a four-year contract
for CEO Kotick, which also contains change-of-control
provisions. Kotick, 49, would receive up to $30 million if the
company gets bought. He would get $45 million if he were to be
fired without cause before a buyout, or if ownership were to
change hands after Dec. 31, 2012, according to a company filing.  Maryanne Lataif, a spokeswoman for Activision, said she
didn’t know details of change-of-control provisions of previous
executive employment contracts. Vivendi officials didn’t
immediately return a call seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net ;
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  