-- Made-in-London Scandals Risk City Reputation as Money Center
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y   a n d   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 2012-07-06T08:35:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/made-in-london-scandals-risk-city-s-reputation-as-finance-center.html
London risks losing its status as the
world’s top financial center as the $360 trillion interest-rate
fixing probe follows a series of market abuses by banks that
eroded trust in a city already shrinking faster than rivals.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s trading loss of at least $2 billion,
the alleged $2.3 billion fraud at  UBS AG (UBSN)  and the investigation
of at least a dozen banks including  Barclays Plc (BARC)  for rigging
global interest rates all happened in London in the last year.
The effect is taking a toll on the capital of a country enduring
its first double-dip recession since the 1970s, which fired more
financial-services workers than any other country in 2011 and
again this year.  “My heart sinks every time there is a scandal and the
perpetrators are in London, even if it is not always the U.K.’s
responsibility, it is under our noses,”  Sharon Bowles ,
chairwoman of the European Parliament’s economic and monetary
affairs committee, said in an interview. “There is an effect on
the U.K.’s reputation, and it reinforces the view that even
after all the apologies there is much to do.”  London, ranked as the world’s number one financial center
by research firm Z/Yen Group Ltd., was where  American
International Group Inc. (AIG)  and Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
booked transactions that helped lead to their downfall. This
week saw  Bank of England  and U.K. government officials tied to
the interest-rate fixing scandal that cost  Robert Diamond ,
London’s best-known banker, his job at Barclays. With the
European debt crisis on its doorstep, London now faces calls to
cull its bonus culture, rein in risk-taking and beef up a light-
touch regulatory system that fueled a decade-long boom.  Biggest Export  The danger for London is that Europe is preparing to set up
its own regulator for banks, which may exclude the U.K. or
disadvantage firms based in the city. Domestically, the industry
is losing longstanding political support from both Conservative
and Labour parties -- as well as the public.  Home to about 250 foreign banks, London is the world’s
biggest center for foreign-exchange trading and cross-border
bank lending and trades $1.4 trillion of interest derivatives
daily, according to the Bank for International Settlements.
Financial services are the U.K.’s largest export and pays 12
percent of the country’s tax receipts.  ‘Stark Reminder’  “It seems to be that every big trading disaster happens in
London, and I would like to know why,” Representative  Carolyn Maloney , a New York Democrat, said at a June 19 U.S. House
Financial Services Committee hearing into the JPMorgan’s loss
and the so-called London Whale trader.  AIG, Lehman Brothers and Bear Stearns & Co. all traded
swaps in London that led to their bankruptcies or bailouts,  Gary Gensler , chairman of the  Commodity Futures Trading Commission ,
which is pushing the Libor investigation, said at the hearing.  “I think in the JPMorgan chief investment office matter,
it’s really a stark reminder about how in derivatives trades
booked offshore, risk can be brought back here,” Gensler said
in a telephone interview yesterday. “And yes, they were booked
in London, specifically in the branch of JPMorgan Chase’s bank,
and those risks are very much a part of the bank here.”  Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  said change is needed.  “Everyone now understands that something went very wrong
with the U.K. banking industry,” he said at a news conference
in London on June 29. “From excessive levels of compensation,
to shoddy treatment of customers, to a deceitful manipulation of
one of the most important interest rates, we can see that we
need a real change in the culture of the industry.”  Expensive Bailout  The U.K. economy has suffered from losses made in its
financial-services industry. Of the country’s nine largest
banks, four were nationalized or forced to take state aid during
the financial crisis, costing the country more money than any
other project in history outside of world wars. The government
is imposing the biggest budget cuts since the 1945, and
unemployment is at 8.2 percent.  Barclays, having avoided a bailout along with  HSBC Holdings
Plc (HSBA)  and  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) , last week admitted manipulating
Libor and will pay a record $451 million fine.  U.K. lawmakers from the country’s two main political
parties united in their condemnation of Diamond’s failure to
prevent his bank’s manipulation of Libor at a Treasury Select
Committee hearing in London on July 4.  Diamond, who was Barclays’s chief executive officer until
July 3, ran a “rotten, thieving bank,”  John Mann  of Labour
said at a committee hearing a day later, while Conservative
Andrea Leadsom accused him of living in a “parallel universe.”  Diamond Apologizes  Diamond, 60, apologized for his bank’s actions and
described the behavior of “a small number” of traders as
“reprehensible” at the hearing. The Massachusetts-born banker
stepped down after earning about 120 million pounds ($186
million) since joining the board in 2005, according to proxy
voting agency Manifest Information Services Ltd.  The market abuses come four years after the financial
crisis in 2008, in which London played a key role. AIG’s
financial-products division, which insured subprime mortgage
bonds, was based in the city’s Mayfair district. Lehman booked
transactions to move debt off its balance sheet through its
London office in Canary Wharf, according to its bankruptcy
examiner Anton Valukas. Bear Stearns made similar trades in
London, Gensler said.  ‘Quite Arrogant’  The Libor settlement followed earlier mis-steps with
customers. U.K. banks including Barclays,  Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc  and  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  have set aside 6.4
billion pounds in compensation to customers who were mis-sold
insurance for loans. The banks last week agreed to repay small
and medium-sized businesses improperly sold interest-rate
derivatives following a probe by the U.K. financial regulator.  Diamond and JPMorgan CEO Jamie Dimon “are known to be
quite arrogant, and to have lectured politicians for not
understanding finance,” said  Philippe Lamberts , a Belgian
lawmaker in the European Parliament’s economic and monetary
affairs committee. “Well, I won’t take lectures from these
kinds of people any more. If there’s one thing they’ve
demonstrated it’s their inability to run their businesses.”  The Bank of England, which will take on additional
responsibility for regulation as well as being the country’s
central bank, was implicated in the Libor fixing scandal this
week when Barclays published an e-mail written by Diamond in
2008.  Paul Tucker , an official at the bank, told Diamond in an
October 2008 phone call the government perceived Barclays’s
Libor rates to be “high,” the e-mail said.  Libor Survey  Tucker didn’t tell Barclays to reduce its submissions to
the Libor rate-setting system, Diamond said July 4. The Bank of
England declined to comment. Tucker has asked to testify in
Parliament as soon as possible.  Eighteen banks are surveyed to determine Libor, a benchmark
for more than $360 trillion of financial products globally. It
is set by averaging out submissions in a poll of banks, who are
asked how much it would cost them to borrow from each other for
different periods of time.  U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  is dissolving the
 Financial Services Authority , which was created by  Tony Blair ’s
Labour government in 1997, and replacing it with two regulators
run by the Bank of England. The Labour government’s commitment
to light-touch regulation helped fuel the financial-services
bubble, he has said.  Corruption Index  “In New York they have attorneys general who are dead keen
on prosecuting people,” said  Paul Moore , who was fired from his
job as head of risk for HBOS Plc for warning the bank’s bosses
that its growth plans could threaten its stability. HBOS almost
collapsed in 2008 before it was bought by Lloyds.  “We never prosecute” in London, Moore said. “You can be
a rioter and steal a water bottle and get put in prison, but if
you are a director of a company that systematically mis-sells
payment-protection insurance to people you can monetize it.”  The latest revelations may influence the U.K.’s ranking in
the  Corruption Perceptions Index , according to Chandu Krishnan,
executive director at the U.K. arm of Transparency
International, which produces the measure. The U.K. was the
world’s 16th least corrupt nation in 2011, behind New Zealand at
number one and ahead of the U.S. at number 22.  “It seems we haven’t learned enough from the problems in
2007 and 2008,” he said. “It’s hurting London’s reputation as
a financial center.”  U.K. Cutbacks  The series of scandals haven’t yet impacted London’s
ranking as the world’s top financial center ahead of New York,
according to Mark Yeandle, senior consultant at  Z/Yen Group ,
which compiles the list.  “The events could easily have taken place elsewhere and
New York has not been free of scandal itself,” he said. “What
could affect the perception of London’s competitiveness is how
the regulators and legal authorities here deal with the guilty
parties.”  Banks based in the city, which is hosting the Olympic Games
this month, have fired 10,000 workers this year, almost half of
the global total, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. U.K.
banks cut almost a third of the 200,000 employees who lost their
jobs last year.  “There’s a mood of significant introspection,” said
Michael Kirkwood, 65, a board member of U.K. Financial
Investments Ltd., which oversees the government’s stake in RBS
and Lloyds and is former U.K. chairman of  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
“People no longer hold their head up high when they have to say
they are a banker.”  Banker Bonuses  The public aren’t sympathetic to the bankers’ plight.  “I understand talented people deserve bonuses,” said
Walter Philippson, 47, who works as a courier in London’s
financial district. “But we’ve seen that not everyone in the
City is that good. Some simply don’t deserve it.”  Barclays’s investment banking unit paid employees an
average of 203,750 pounds each in 2011, filings show. The figure
includes salary, bonuses and pensions. That’s almost eight times
the average U.K. salary of 26,000 pounds, according to the
 Office for National Statistics .  “The City is ruled by the elites, by people like  Bob
Diamond ,” said Rose Wynes, 53, a social worker and mother of
five in Westminster in Central London. “We’re being tricked,
conned and played by them. We’re sheep.”  To improve the city’s ethos of making a quick profit at the
expense of customers, investors and national economies, the U.K.
government needs to insulate retail banking from trading
activities, regulate derivatives and encourage banks to more
evenly distribute profits between employees and shareholders,
Kirkwood said.  More important than new rules is an attempt to change
London bankers’ attitudes, according to Moore. “There’s a
culture, not just in the investment banks, but also the retail
banks, that needs to end,” he said. “The boil is rancid, and
we need to lance it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net ;
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  