-- Aetna Suit by Doctors Escalates Out-of-Network Dispute
-- B y   P e t e r   W a l d m a n   a n d   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-07-05T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/aetna-suit-by-doctors-escalates-out-of-network-dispute.html
A group of California doctors and
medical groups accused  Aetna Inc. (AET)  of reneging on medical
benefits, escalating a dispute over payments for care in
facilities that don’t have discounted contracts with the
insurance provider.  More than six-dozen physicians, medical associations and
surgery centers sued Aetna in state court July 3. They alleged
that the Hartford, Connecticut-based company retaliated against
doctors and patients for using outpatient units that aren’t in
the company’s network of preferred providers. The plaintiffs
asked a court in  Los Angeles  to stop Aetna from terminating
doctors for referring patients to out-of-network facilities.  The complaint is part of a controversy over the out-of-
network medical centers, which charge more for procedures than
Aetna pays its contracted providers. Earlier this year, Aetna
sued six  California  surgery centers not in its network, alleging
they paid illegal kickbacks to doctors and charged too much for
health care.  In the new lawsuit against Aetna, the doctors and medical
groups allege that Aetna violates state fair-business and false-
advertising laws by selling insurance policies that allow for
out-of-network care, and then intimidating doctors and patients
to keep them from gaining access to the benefits.  “Aetna’s practice of forcing doctors to preclude Aetna
patients with out-of-network benefits from actually using those
benefits constitutes a clinical gag clause,” the plaintiffs
allege. The group suing Aetna includes 60 named doctors, nine
surgery centers, the California Medical Association and the
medical associations of Los Angeles,  Santa Clara  and Ventura
counties.  Self-Referral  Anjanette Coplin, an Aetna spokeswoman, said the provider
of medical benefits is aiming to reduce costs driven by so-
called physician self-referral -- the practice of sending
patients to facilities owned by the referring doctors. Aetna
filed its earlier complaint in state court and with the Medical
Board of California against six surgery centers in the Silicon
Valley, Coplin said.  Aetna accused those centers, managed by  Bay Area Surgical
Management LLC  of Saratoga, California, of gouging on rates and
paying illegal kickbacks to owner-doctors for self-referrals.
Bay Area Surgical and the six surgery centers it manages are
named as plaintiffs in the suit against Aetna.  The company says it paid those out-of-network centers
$52,880 for a bunion repair that usually costs $4,000 at in-
network facilities, and $120,000 for lower-back disk surgeries
that cost $6,000 at contracted centers.  Profits, Patients  “Doctors who entice patients to have procedures performed
at out-of-network facilities that they own without the patient’s
knowledge are putting profits over their patients,” Coplin said
in a statement.  The California doctors and medical groups allege in their
suit that Aetna discouraged patients from using their out-of-
network benefits by phoning and sending letters warning that a
planned procedure was out-of-network, urging patients to use in-
network facilities and withholding payments to non-contracted
units.  The suit alleges Aetna threatened physicians with network
termination for referring patients to non-contracted facilities,
and terminated at least 10 doctors for making such referrals.
One of the physicians dropped from Aetna’s network was Michael Dillingham of  Redwood City , California, the orthopedist for the
San Francisco Giants professional baseball team and the San
Francisco 49ers professional football team.  Transparency Demand  Doctors in Los Angeles County abide by their ethical and
legal obligation to inform patients when referring them to
facilities the doctors own, said Rockard Delgadillo, chief
executive officer of the Los Angeles County Medical Association
and the former city attorney of Los Angeles. The suit, which
Delgadillo called “historic” because he said it is the first
time the Los Angeles doctors’ group has sued a health insurer,
is aimed at forcing greater transparency by Aetna.  “Tell the world you’re not going to pay for something if
it goes over $10,000 or whatever; don’t say it’s not ’medically
necessary’ or out-of-network,” Delgadillo said. “We believe
Aetna is impairing the critical relationship of trust between
the patient and the physician in its relentless campaign to cut
costs and boost profits.”  The case is Los Angeles County Medical Association v. Aetna
Health of California Inc. BC487670, Los Angeles County Superior
Court.  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
Peter Waldman in  San Francisco  at 
 pwaldman@bloomberg.net ;
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gary Putka at   gputka@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 