-- Ai Weiwei, Snow White, Ice Sculptures: Hong Kong Weekend
-- B y   F r e d e r i k   B a l f o u r
-- 2012-07-05T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/ai-weiwei-snow-white-ravel-ice-sculptures-hong-kong-weekend.html
If you’re not traveling to  London  to
see this summer’s  Serpentine Gallery  underground pavilion co-
designed by Chinese dissident artist Ai Weiwei, then you may
prefer his Hong Kong photo exhibition at  Para/Site Art Space .  Taken by Ai while he was living in  New York  from 1983 to
1993, these black-and-white images offer a unique perspective on
the city seen through the lens of a Chinese expatriate artist.  The exhibition, “A History of Possible Encounters,” also
includes photographic documents from Hong Kong artist  Frog King
Kwok Man Ho ’s Free Tibet Performance curated by Ai and works by
Taiwanese artist  Tehching Hsieh , both of whom worked in New York
during the same period. (Through Aug. 12.)  Para/Site, G/F, Po Yan Street, Sheung Wan. Information:
+852-2517-4620 or  http://www.para-site.org.hk/   Classified Cafe, close to Para/Site on Hollywood Road,
boasts one of  Hong Kong ’s most extensive  cheese cellars , an
extensive wine list and excellent coffee with outdoor seating.
Information:  http://www.classifiedfoodshops.com.hk/eng/find-us/ 
or +852-2525-3454.  The creative urge gripped U.S. abstract painter Cy Twombly
until the very end. Twombly, who died at age 83 last July,
mistook the curtain around his hospital bed for a blank canvas
and called for paint and brushes. “The Last Paintings” at
Gagosian Gallery consists of eight works that display remarkable
energy for an artist of any age, let alone an octogenarian.  Giant looping strokes of orange and red suggest a personal
calligraphy of a man for whom these works serve as both a source
of liberation and a self-painted epitaph.  Gagosian Gallery , 7th Floor Pedder Building, 12 Pedder
Street, Central. Until Aug. 11. Information: +852-2151-0555 or
 http://bit.ly/LpKsx0   Friday Night  Not interested in joining the crowds to see  Kristen Stewart 
meet her Prince Charming at the movies? For a different take on
the fairy tale, catch “ Snow White  and the Seven Dwarfs,” where
members of the  Estonian National Ballet  leap and tumble in a
lighthearted performance with fireworks and video projections to
enhance the sense of wonderment. Thomas Edur is the artistic
director.  Friday, Saturday and Sunday at the Hong Kong Cultural
Centre Grand Theatre. Information: +852-2370-1044. Internet
bookings can be made at  http://www.urbtix.hk   Saturday  Also at the Cultural Centre, the  Hong Kong Philharmonic
Orchestra  performs its season finale featuring Turkish pianist
Huseyin Sermet. The program includes Brahms’s Variations on a
Theme by Joseph Haydn, Ravel’s Piano Concerto for the Left Hand
and Elgar’s Variations on an Original Theme (“Enigma”). Friday
and Saturday in the Concert Hall at 8 p.m. Information:
+852-2370-1044. Internet bookings at  http://www.urbtix.hk   If you can put aside concerns about global warming for a
couple of hours, then head over to Macau for  Ice World . Try not
to think how much energy is consumed to keep the 1,670 square-
meter CotaiExpo Hall at 8 degrees centigrade when it’s
sweltering outside and enjoy ice sculptures of Beijing’s Summer
Palace, a frozen pumpkin carriage and other ice renderings of
various heritage sites. Hooded jackets are provided at the door
to ticket holders. Hats and mittens may be purchased. The show
is open daily through Sept. 16. Tickets:  http://bit.ly/Lm3ZTx   Russian Wit  After you’ve shed your hoodie, head over to the  Macau
Museum of Art  to catch “Times of Great Ignorance,” an
exhibition by Macau, China-based Russian artist Konstantin
Bessmertny, who represented Macau at the International Venice
Biennale in 2007. He draws inspiration from opera, burlesque,
costume dramas,  Old Masters  and Russian icons, infusing his
sculptures and oil paintings with a mordant wit. Information:
+853-8791-9814 or  http://www.mam.gov.mo/main.asp?language=3   Nearby is the Robuchon au Dome in the Grand Lisboa Hotel,
formerly known as  Joel Robuchon ’s three-Michelin-starred
 Robuchon a Galera , before it moved across the street from the
Lisboa Hotel. The roasted guinea fowl and foie gras will set you
back HK$1,280 ($165) but you may spot casino kingpin  Stanley Ho ,
who’s a regular.  Make sure you purchase a return ferry ticket in advance to
make it back to Hong Kong in time for a screening of Wim Wenders’s 1976 classic, “Kings of the Road.” Wenders, one of
the greatest New German Cinema directors, was enthralled by
American films, which inspired him to make his own road movie
where two restless wanderers explore the country near the then-
East German border. Hong Kong Film Archive, 50 Lei King Road,
Sai Wan Ho, at 7:30 p.m. Information:  http://bit.ly/LRHcst   ( Frederik Balfour  is a Reporter-at-Large for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Zinta Lundborg’s  New York weekend,
 Craig Seligman  on the arts.  To contact the writer on the story:
Frederik Balfour, in Hong Kong, at 
 fbalfour@bloomberg.net  or on Twitter @frederikbalfour.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 