-- Air France Crash Probe Finds Pilots Lacked Proper Training
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n   a n d   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2012-07-05T15:43:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/air-france-447-crash-probe-finds-pilots-lacked-proper-training.html
The pilots of Air  France  flight 447
that crashed into the Atlantic Ocean three years ago lacked the
right training to respond to a surprise scenario, the French
aviation investigator said in its final report of the incident.  The investigation uncovered “profound loss of
understanding” in the cockpit in a moment of surprise, when the
aircraft went into a stall and lost lift, the report found. The
pilots lacked training for stall scenarios, and the authority
recommended that flight simulation training be reviewed.  “The dual failure of the expected procedural responses
shows the limits of the current safety model,” the French BEA
authority said in its report. “The crew, whose work was
becoming disrupted, likely never realized they were facing a
‘simple’ loss of all three airspeed sources.”  The crash of the Airbus SAS A330 wide-body prompted a two-
year search for the flight recorders to help determine why the
plane disappeared, killing all 228 people aboard. The recordings
revealed a state of confusion in the cockpit, with pilots not
responding to stall warnings, highlighting a pressure point in
modern aviation, where computers run most tasks and pilots are
less trained in rapid crisis reaction.  Confused Cockpit  Airbus, which helped fund the search for the recorders, has
said that the aircraft was responsive throughout its descent
into the Atlantic Ocean. The pilots were required to take over
the controls after the auto-pilot disengaged because of faulty
speed readings caused by iced-up sensors. That occurrence alone
could not explain a crash, Airbus has said.  “Airbus has already started working at industry level to
further reinforce the robustness of pitot probes requirements
and actively supports related activities,” the manufacturer,
based in Toulouse, France, said in a statement today.  The BEA is the latest accident investigation agency to call
for improved training for pilots in how to recognize a stall.
So-called loss-of-control accidents, which include stalls, are
the biggest cause of crashes and deaths around the world,
according to statistics from  Boeing Co. (BA)   Junior Pilots  The U.S. National Transportation Safety Board has issued
several recommendations on the subject during the past decade,
including a  Pinnacle Airlines Corp. (PNCLQ)  Colgan Air flight that
crashed Feb. 12, 2009, near Buffalo,  New York , killing all 49
people on the plane and a man on the ground.   Flight 447 crashed on June 1, 2009, en route to Paris from
 Rio de Janeiro . The disaster remained shrouded in mystery until
the recorders were retrieved. It is unusual for modern aircraft
to crash during their high-altitude cruise, as most accidents
occur on takeoff or landing. Air France has defended its pilots,
saying confusing cockpit readouts are partly to blame.  “The BEA report describes a crew who acted in line with
the information provided by the cockpit instruments and systems,
and the aircraft behaviour as it was perceptible in the
cockpit,” the airline said. “The reading of the various data
did not enable them to apply the appropriate action.”  Rapid Descent  The BEA raised several recommendations that indicate
shortcomings in how information is displayed to pilots on the
A330, in particular the so-called flight director pilots rely on
to fly the aircraft. When the autopilot disengaged, the flight
director disappeared and other warnings sounded. That led the
pilots to make wrong control inputs, although the BEA
also found a dozen instances where pilots reacted properly.  The flight-recorder readings revealed that Chief Pilot Marc
Dubois, 58, had been on a routine break when the autopilot
disengaged, and that he at no point until the crash took back
control of the jet. Instead, the two junior co-pilots, aged 37
and 32, shared the task of stabilizing the plane, with the
senior pilot giving occasional commands from the background.  Startled  “The occurrence of the failure in the context of flight in
cruise completely surprised the crew of flight AF447,” today’s
report said. “The apparent difficulties in handling the
aeroplane in turbulence in high altitude resulted in over-
handling in roll and a sharp nose-up input” by the co-pilot,
the report said.  Aviation safety specialists have said the trio were
probably bewildered by erratic instrument readings and may have
done the opposite of what was needed to keep the jet from
crashing. The pilots had only three and a half minutes to avert
disaster as the jet fell toward the ocean at a speed of 180 feet
(55 meters) a second.  “The startle effect played a major role in the
destabilization of the flight path and in the two pilots
understanding the situation,” today’s report found.  Averting Stalls  Pilots are trained to avert stalls, which occur when an
aircraft slows enough that its wings lose lift, by dropping the
nose to increase speed. Instead, the flight data showed that the
pilot at the controls for most of the last minutes consistently
angled the jet nose higher.  Air France (AF)  said today that it’s involved in “an ongoing
process of improving flight safety procedures.”  Airbus, which like Air France is partly owned by the French
state, has said the flight-recorder readings support the
technical flawlessness of the wide-body aircraft. Air France has
called “misleading” the fact that the stall warning alarm went
on and off repeatedly as the plane moved in and out of stall,
responding pilot directions in the cockpit.  Angle of Attack  Still, regulators should require specific pilot training on
high-speed stalls, which isn’t currently mandatory and which
neither of the Air France co-pilots had received, the previous
report said. That report also called for manufacturers to
consider making available a reading of the so-called angle of
attack, which defines the angle between air flow and the
longitudinal axis of the aircraft.  In the case of the crashed Airbus, the angle, which wasn’t
visible to the pilots, always remained above 35 degrees during
the descent.  “The problem is that one can’t always rely on automatic
functioning,” BEA Director Jean-Paul Troadec said at a press
conference in Paris.  “Be it a modern or a more traditional
plane, pilots need to know the situation they’re in to react the
proper way.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  