-- AirAsia, Jetstar Beat Singapore Air, Cathay in Brand Survey
-- B y   S h a r o n   C h e n
-- 2012-07-05T06:55:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/airasia-jetstar-beat-singapore-air-cathay-in-brand-survey.html
Asia-Pacific budget airlines  AirAsia
Bhd. (AIRA)  and  Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN) ’s Jetstar overtook full-service
carriers in a brand-reputation survey as more passengers in the
region turned to cheaper options amid a global economic slowdown.  Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA)  and  Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. (293) ,
among the world’s 10 biggest carriers by market value, were
ranked below the two low-cost air-travel operators, according to
the report compiled by  Nielsen Holdings NV (NLSN)  and Campaign Asia-
Pacific, a marketing industry magazine.  Global airline profits are set to fall in 2012 by more than
half to $3 billion from $7.9 billion last year, according to the
International Air Transport Association, as recessions in the
U.K., Spain and other European countries damp demand and erode
gains from lower fuel prices.  “It’s an economic reality,” Therese Glennon, managing
director of consumer insights for Asia Pacific,  Middle East  and
Africa at Nielsen, said in an interview yesterday. “As the
demand for budget travel increases, as the economic situation
deteriorates, you see a lot of these bigger airlines adjusting
their business models.”  Nielsen asked 400 respondents in each of 12 Asia-Pacific
countries where it conducted the survey to name the top two
brands they thought were most trusted or had the best reputation
in 14 categories, including travel and leisure, it said.  Shares Rise  AirAsia shares rose 0.3 percent to 3.71 ringgit as of 2:53
p.m. in  Kuala Lumpur , set for the highest close in almost five
months. Qantas climbed 0.9 percent to A$1.11 in Sydney.  Cathay in May predicted “disappointing” first-half
earnings. The company has pared passenger-capacity growth, cut
flights to North America and Europe this year, imposed a hiring
freeze on ground staff and offered cabin crew unpaid leave.  “While we cannot comment on the validity of this specific
survey, being unaware of its exact methodology, we can share
that for more than 65 years, Cathay Pacific has been serving
travelers from around the world,” the airline said in an e-
mailed response to questions.  Singapore Air, which posted an unexpected fourth-quarter
loss of S$38.2 million ($30 million), started a low-cost carrier
that completed its first flight last month.  Nicholas Ionides , a
spokesman for Singapore Air, declined to comment because he
hasn’t seen the report.  Other full-service airlines that were ranked lower include
Qantas, Australia’s largest carrier that forecast last month
annual profit may fall as much as 91 percent, and Korean Air
Lines Co., South Korea’s biggest flier that slumped to a
surprise first-quarter loss.  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , Apple Inc. and  Sony Corp. (6758)  were the
top three brands in the survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Chen in Singapore at 
 schen462@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net  