-- Airbus Yanks A400M off U.K. Flying Display on Gearbox Hitch
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n   a n d   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2012-07-05T11:50:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/airbus-yanks-a400m-off-u-k-flying-display-on-gearbox-hitch-1-.html
Airbus (EAD)  SAS said its A400M won’t
participate in daily flight demonstrations at the Farnborough
Air Show after it discovered a fault in the gearbox, the second
consecutive year a glitch has grounded the military airlifter.  “We found metallic chips in one of the gearboxes and the
origin is not yet identified,” said Maggie Bergsma, a
spokeswoman for  Airbus Military , which is building the plane.
“This adds an element of uncertainty to behavior of engines,
which is not compatible with the type of low-altitude, complex
maneuvers typical of flight displays.”  It’s the second year running when gearbox issues have
hobbled the plane. Last year at the  Paris Air Show , which
alternates with Farnborough in the U.K. as the aviation
industry’s biggest event, the plane flew just once on the first
day, with the French acrobatic flying team. The A400M will
instead be on static display at the show, which begins July 9.  The A400M is Europe’s largest defense program and about 5
billion euros ($6.2 billion) over budget at 25 billion euros.
Airbus has five A400Ms flying the test program and three planes
in the final assembly line, with the first delivery on schedule
for before the end of March 2013.  The aircraft’s turbo-propeller engine, the world’s biggest
of its kind, is built by Europrop, a company that include MTU
Aero Engines,  Rolls-Royce PLC (RR/)  and  Safran SA (SAF) ’s Snecma division.
The gearbox itself is made by Avio, in  Italy .  “Our engineering teams are working around-the-clock to
identify the cause and implement a solution,” Europrop said in
a statement today. “In the meantime we are continuing to
support the flight test program which is ongoing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Paris at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net  