-- Airbus Has Less Time to Spare as A400M Delivery Slips to 2013
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l   a n d   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2012-07-05T14:06:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/airbus-has-less-time-to-spare-as-a400m-delivery-slips-to-2013.html
Airbus SAS said the first delivery of
an A400M will probably slip into next year because of renewed
engine problems, eroding its margin to meet a March deadline to
deliver the military airlifter.  “We found metallic chips in one of the gearboxes and the
origin is not yet identified,” said Maggie Bergsma, a
spokeswoman for Airbus Military.  The discovery of shavings has interrupted testing, pushing
back a multi-week production trial required for the European
Aviation Safety Agency to certify the aircraft. Airbus, a unit
of European Aeronautics, Defence & Space Co., aimed to deliver
its first A400M to France this year.  Airbus already revised its delivery schedule to its lead
customer to the end of March after initial setbacks. The latest
gearbox problem arose on one of the four engines on the A400M
undergoing a 300-hour function and reliability endurance flight
test. Airbus has completed 160 hours of the program so far. The
troubled engine has been replaced, though the test can only
resume once the cause of the problem is determined.  A more public repercussion will be the absence of the A400M
in daily flight demonstrations at the Farnborough Air Show. It’s
the second year running when gearbox issues have hobbled the
plane. At the Paris Air Show in 2011, the plane flew just once
on the first day, with the French acrobatic flying team. The
A400M will be parked in a static display area at Farnborough,
which begins July 9.  “This adds an element of uncertainty to the behavior of
engines, which is not compatible with the type of low-altitude,
complex maneuvers typical of flight displays,” Bergsma said.  Over Budget  The A400M is Europe’s largest defense program and about 5
billion euros ($6.2 billion) over budget at 25 billion euros.
Airbus has five A400Ms flying the test program and three planes
in final assembly, with the first delivery scheduled for before
the end of March 2013. The aircraft’s turbo-propeller engine,
the TP400D-6, is built by Europrop International, a company that
includes MTU Aero Engines,  Rolls-Royce PLC (RR/)  and  Safran SA (SAF) ’s
Snecma division. The gearbox is made by Avio of Italy.  “Our engineering teams are working around-the-clock to
identify the cause and implement a solution,” Europrop said in
a statement today. “In the meantime we are continuing to
support the flight test program which is ongoing.”  Airbus and Europrop International also are still
investigating why an A400M suffered an engine shut-down earlier
this year. The repeated problems have raised concern at Airbus
about engine reliability. A third engine problem the A400M
suffered this year, when an aircraft experienced excessive
vibration, has been resolved.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  