-- Announced U.S. Job Cuts Fall 9.4% From Year Ago, Challenger Says
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   F a i r c h i l d
-- 2012-07-05T11:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/announced-u-s-job-cuts-fall-9-4-from-year-ago-challenger-says.html
Employers in the U.S announced fewer
job cuts in June than a year earlier as companies retained more
skilled workers.  Planned firings fell by 9.4 percent from June 2011 to a 13-
month low of 37,551, according to figures released today by
Chicago-based Challenger, Gray & Christmas Inc. Manufacturers
including makers of industrial goods, consumer products and
motor vehicles saw job cuts decline, the report showed.  “Employers appear reluctant to shed too many workers,”
John A. Challenger, chief executive officer of Challenger, Gray
and Christmas, said in a statement. “While it does not take
long to shrink payrolls, it can take a significant amount of
time to rebuild them, particularly as reports of a growing
skills gap become more widespread,” he said.  Compared with May, job-cut announcements fell 39 percent.
The figures are not adjusted for season effects and economists
prefer to focus on year-over-year changes rather than monthly
numbers.  Education led all industry firings with 6,569 planned cuts
in June, almost double the 3,536 jobs cut announced in May.
Telecommunications saw a reduction of 3,838 positions.  New York  led all states with 8,836 announced job cuts last
month, followed by  Nevada  with 3,199 dismissals.  Hiring Plans  The report also showed that employers announced plans to
take on 12,314 workers in June compared with 7,722 the prior
month. Aerospace and defense was the industry that showed the
largest increase in hiring plans announced last month, with
2,700 additional workers.  The Labor Department tomorrow may report that payrolls
climbed by about 90,000 workers last month after a 69,000
increase in May, according to the median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. The  unemployment rate  probably held
at 8.2 percent.  Challenger’s data do not always correlate with figures on
payrolls or first-time jobless claims as reported by the
government. Many job cuts are carried out through attrition or
early retirement. Some employees whose jobs are eliminated find
work elsewhere in their companies and many announced staff
reductions never take place because business improves. The
totals also include foreign affiliates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Fairchild in New York at 
 cfairchild2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  