-- Argentina Forces Banks to Lend at Least 15 Billion Pesos
-- B y   C a m i l a   R u s s o
-- 2012-07-05T20:55:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/argentina-forces-banks-to-lend-at-least-15-billion-pesos-1-.html
Argentina  is forcing the country’s
biggest banks to lend companies at least 15 billion pesos ($3.3
billion) at rates that are less than inflation to shore up
production as the economy slows.  Measures announced by the central bank today obligate all
banks whose deposits exceed 1 percent of the country’s total
deposits to provide credits for three years or more to finance
investments that will enable businesses to boost output of goods
and services.  The banks will charge a fixed rate of 400 basis points
above the average benchmark deposit rate in June for the loans,
the bank said in an e-mailed press release. The average rate
private banks paid last month for 30-day deposits of more than1
million pesos, known as the  badlar , was 12.1 percent.  “At the rates banks are charging now, nobody asks for
loans,” President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  said yesterday
in a speech that outlined the measures. “The central bank will
establish conditions that will make borrowing accessible.”  Growth of  South America ’s second-biggest economy will slow
to 2.75 percent this year, according to the median estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg, down from 8.9 percent last
year and 9.1 percent in 2010.  The lending rate of about 16 percent compares with annual
inflation estimated at 24 percent in a survey of economists
released by opposition lawmakers. Argentina’s national
statistics agency, whose data has been questioned by the
 International Monetary Fund , said  consumer prices  rose 9.9
percent in the 12 months through May.  Under the new rules, banks will be required to lend 5
percent of their deposits as of June. In May, deposits totaled
434 billion pesos, according to latest central bank data.  A change to the central bank charter announced in March
allows the institution to set lending rates for commercial
banks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Camila Russo in  Buenos Aires  at 
 crusso15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  