-- Retailers’ June Sales Little Changed While Luxury Gains
-- B y   K e l l y   B l e s s i n g   a n d   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2012-07-05T20:26:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/target-macy-s-sales-trail-estimates-amid-weak-confidence.html
U.S. retailers’ June same-store sales
about matched analysts’ estimates, with luxury chains such as
 Saks Inc. (SKS)  and discounters like  TJX Cos. (TJX)  topping expectations and
stores targeting middle-income consumers trailing projections.  Same-store sales at the more than 20 companies tracked by
Retail Metrics Inc. rose 0.3 percent, compared with the 1
percent average estimate of analysts surveyed by the research
firm. The results follow a 7.2 percent increase last year.  Consumers have been spooked by the  unemployment  rate
staying above 8 percent, sending many to discount chains such as
TJX, which posted a 7 percent sales gain. At the same time,
luxury consumers have continued to spend with the stock market
still up for the year. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Retailing Index
gained as the broader index declined.  “The high-end consumer has faired particularly well
throughout this recovery,”  Ken Perkins , president of
Swampscott, Massachusetts-based Retail Metrics, said in an
interview. “On the low end, a lot of middle-income consumers
have traded down.”  TJX, which owns discount stores T.J. Maxx and Marshalls,
beat analysts’ average estimate for a 3.7 percent sales
increase. The Framingham, Massachusetts-based company said
profit this year may be as much as $2.39 a share, up from a
previous forecast for a maximum of $2.37. The shares rose 3.7
percent to $44.09 at the close in New York.  Limited Sales  Same-store sales at  Limited Brands Inc. (LTD) , the parent company
of Victoria’s Secret, gained 7 percent, beating the average
estimate of 2.6 percent. Sales at New York-based Saks rose 6
percent, topping the 4.2 percent average estimate.  Columbus, Ohio-based Limited’s shares rose 4.5 percent to
$46.12, while Saks gained 2.5 percent to $11.19. The S&P retail
index climbed 1 percent. The  S&P 500  slid 0.5 percent and has
gained 8.7 percent this year.  Sales at  Target Corp. (TGT)  rose 2.1 percent, falling short of
the average projection for a 2.8 percent gain from analysts
surveyed by Retail Metrics.  Macy’s Inc. (M) , the second-biggest U.S.
department-store chain, posted a 1.2 percent increase in same-
store sales, missing the 2.3 percent estimate.  Macy’s said in a statement today that the “stagnant”
economy and reduced spending from tourists hurt sales.  “ Consumer confidence  and other macroeconomic indicators
have been falling,” Keith Jelinek, a director in the retail
practice at AlixPartners LLP, said in a telephone interview.
“This consumer’s psyche says, ‘I’m not going to spend.’”  Target shares fell 1.1 percent to $57.15, and Macy’s rose
2.7 percent to $34.27.  Back-to-School  Most chains count locations open at least a year to
tabulate same-store sales. The revenue is a key indicator of a
retailer’s growth because new and closed sites are excluded.  June’s results may be a sign that retailers will have to
discount more than expected to draw shoppers for the important
back-to-school shopping season, Perkins said.  “They have to have a reason to spend,” Perkins said. “If
they are given a reason to spend, they do come out and buy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kelly Blessing in  New York  at 
 kblessing@bloomberg.net ;
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  