-- Argentina Plans Biggest Wind Project With Loan From China
-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 2012-07-05T17:20:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/argentina-plans-biggest-wind-project-with-loan-from-china.html
An Argentinean renewable-energy
developer is planning  Latin America ’s biggest wind-power
project, saying it expects to obtain $3 billion in financing
from  China  Development Bank Corp.  Generadora Eolica Argentina del Sur SA said it will receive
the funds to install 1,350 megawatts of Chinese turbines across
45,000 hectares (111,200 acres) in the Chubut province in the
nation’s south, Eduardo Restuccia, executive vice president of
the Buenos Aires-based company known as Geassa, said in a
telephone interview today.  Latin American developers are buying Chinese  wind turbines 
that are packaged with financing that’s less expensive and
easier to arrange than loans from local banks, which aren’t
familiar with the economics of wind farms. Such deal are
especially attractive in Argentina, which has been blocked from
international bond markets since it defaulted on $95 billion of
debt during a financial crisis in 2001 and 2002.  “ Argentina  can’t get finance from  Europe  or the U.S.,”
Restuccia said. “That gives the Chinese a unique exclusivity
tool” for financing energy projects in the region.  The 12-year loan will have an annual interest rate of 6.25
percent above Libor, the  London  Interbank Offer Rate, and a two-
year grace period, he said. Other than some government credit
programs for housing, long-term debt loans are rarely offered in
Argentina and commercial rates for short-term debt exceed 20
percent.  “We not only hope, but have good grounds to believe that
the financial closing will be around December this year,”
Restuccia said in an e-mail yesterday.  China’s Beijing Construction Engineering Group, which will
build the project, and the Chinese turbine supplier, which
hasn’t been identified, will jointly own 25 percent.  Financing Unavailable  “There are very few financing lines for large
infrastructure projects” in the region, Eduardo Tabbush, an
analyst at Bloomberg New Energy Finance in London, said in a
telephone interview. Lenders including the Washington-based
 Inter-American Development Bank  and International Finance Corp.
are still reluctant to lend to Argentina following the default.  The $3.5 billion wind project will furnish 4 percent of the
nation’s power once fully operational in 2017, Restuccia said.
The first 150 megawatts is expected to start producing power in
February 2015, he said. It will be larger than a 306-megawatt
cluster of wind farms in  Mexico  that’s currently Latin America’s
biggest wind-energy cluster, according to New Energy Finance.  Geassa expects to receive an initial $1 billion tranche in
January 2013 to build the first 300 megawatts and a 295-
kilometer (183-mile) transmission line linking it to the grid,
he said.  Corporacion Andina de Fomento , the Caracas-based
development lender, is helping to structure the debt, which will
be guaranteed by China’s state-owned export credit insurance
owner Sinosure.  ‘Tremendous Project’  Geassa expects to sign this month a 15-year contract to
sell power from the project to the wholesale energy
administrator Cia. Administradora del Mercado Mayorista
Electrico SA, he said. The company was created in 2008 to
develop the project and then shelved it after the global banking
crisis.  Located 400 kilometers from the nearest port, it will be a
“tremendous project,” Restuccia said. “There’s no
infrastructure nearby. A city will have to be built at the
site” to cater for the workers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in  Sao Paulo  at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  