-- Arsenal’s Usmanov Criticizes Board Over Finances, Van Persie
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-07-05T16:20:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/arsenal-shareholder-usmanov-criticises-board-for-van-persie-move.html
Arsenal’s second-largest shareholder
criticized the  London  soccer club’s board over the direction of
the team following captain  Robin van Persie ’s decision not to
extend his contract.  Red and White Securities Ltd., headed by Russian
billionaire  Alisher Usmanov  and Farhad Moshiri, released an open
letter to the board saying the team can’t compete and keep its
best players with its current financial model. Van Persie, the
Premier League’s top scorer last season, announced yesterday he
wouldn’t seek an extension when his contract ends next year.  “Yet again we are faced with losing our true marquee
player at the club because we cannot assure him of the future
direction and give confidence that we can win trophies,” said
Red and White, which owns almost 30 percent of the club’s
equity. “Where are the safeguards to ensure that this doesn’t
happen again and again in the future?”  Stan Kroenke , the U.S. owner of the  National Basketball
Association ’s Denver Nuggets and  National Hockey League ’s Denver
Avalanche, took control of Arsenal in 2011 and Red and White
says it’s sought and been refused meetings with the American
billionaire.  Red and White said it’s invested about 200 million pounds
($311 million) in the club and does not have representation on
the board. The group maintains Arsenal Chief Executive  Ivan Gazidis  has created the impression of a “bitter standoff”
between the parties that may “destabilize” the club.  Trophy Drought  “In our view it is clear that you are trying to distract
attention from the more fundamental issues facing the club,”
the letter read. “These are the financial model, the lack of
investment and the club’s future strategic direction.”  Arsenal said it had received the letter and was reviewing
its contents.  Van Persie  said on his  website  yesterday that his decision
was based on disagreeing with Gazidis and manager  Arsene Wenger 
over the club’s future. Arsenal finished third in the Premier
League last season but hasn’t won a trophy since 2005, the
season before it moved into the 60,000-seat Emirates Stadium.  Prior to last season, the Gunners sold captain Cesc
Fabregas to Barcelona, while midfielder Samir Nasri and defender
 Gael Clichy  joined  Manchester City , which went on to win the
Premier League. Fans have been critical of management’s lack of
spending to strengthen the squad over the past few years.  ‘Tight Finances’  “As a consequence of this policy, which is dressed up as
prudent financial planning, it is down to our manager, and not
the shareholders, to have to deal with the club’s tight
finances, carry the burden of repaying the stadium debt by
selling his best players and having to continue to find cheaper
replacements,” the Red and White letter read. “All of that,
naturally, comes at the expense of performance on the pitch.”  Red and White says it will continue to purchase more
Arsenal shares from “anyone who wants to sell them to us.” It
also set out its vision for the team.  “It is simple,” the letter read. “A debt-free club, with
a big enough war chest to buy top talent players who can hit the
ground running and who can complement the club’s long tradition
of developing young players and homegrown talent. Together they
can help the club win the most prestigious trophies, because it
is the trophies which are the crowning achievement for everybody
at the club.”  Annual Revenue  Arsenal’s board has previously rejected Usmanov’s call for
a rights issue of shares to raise funds. Last September,  Arsenal
Holdings Plc (AFC)  posted annual revenue of 255.7 million pounds, down
by a third on lower property sales at its former ground. Net
income was 13 million pounds, while net debt was reduced by 28
percent to 97.8 million pounds.  Usmanov and Moshiri wished Kroenke “every success” in
running the club, even though they said they had reservations
about the policies of the management team and board.  “We, as the co-owners of Red and White, will proudly
retain our holding in the club as a long-term investment for
ourselves and our family members to benefit for generations to
come,” the duo said in closing their letter. “We want the
absolute best for the club and will do what is necessary to
ensure the success of the club that we all love.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 