-- Aussie Falls on Bets ECB Rate-Cut Not Enough to End Woes
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 2012-07-06T06:39:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/aussie-heads-for-5th-weekly-gain-as-global-easing-boosts-demand.html
Australia’s dollar fell along with
Asian stocks amid concern the  European Central Bank ’s cut in
 interest rates  yesterday won’t be enough to stem the region’s
debt crisis, damping demand for riskier assets.  The so-called Aussie dollar trimmed its weekly gains versus
the greenback and yen even after  China  yesterday cut its key
interest rate for the second time in a month and the  Bank of
England  expanded asset purchases in efforts to bolster growth.
Losses in New Zealand’s kiwi dollar were limited after the
government said its deficit was narrower than forecast.  “The ECB didn’t announce extraordinary measures yesterday,
such as possible bond purchases,” said  Junya Tanase , chief
currency strategist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  Tokyo . “The
market is jittery about the status quo in terms of the ECB’s
handling of sovereign risks. The Aussie and kiwi are trading
softer in such a risk-averse environment.”  The Aussie lost 0.2 percent to $1.0263 as of 4:25 p.m. in
Sydney, paring its weekly gain to 0.3 percent. The currency
fetched 81.96 yen from 82.22, having gained 0.3 percent since
June 29. New Zealand’s dollar slipped 0.1 percent to 80.30 U.S.
cents after touching 80.76 yesterday, the highest since May 3.
It bought 64.11 yen from 64.22.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  of regional shares slipped 0.5
percent. The 10-year yield on  Australia ’s government bonds added
one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 3.10 percent. New
Zealand’s two-year swap rate, a fixed payment made to receive
floating rates, fell three basis points to 2.77 percent.  ECB Decision  Spanish and Italian bonds slumped yesterday after ECB
policy makers refrained from announcing any additional steps to
cap borrowing costs in the debt-strapped nations. The central
bank lowered the benchmark rate to a record 0.75 percent.  The yield on Spain’s  10-year debt  rose as much as 43 basis
points yesterday to 6.84 percent, the highest since June 29, and
near the 7 percent level that spurred Greece, Ireland and
 Portugal  to seek bailouts. Italy’s 10-year bond yield increased
21 basis points to 5.98 percent.  “The ECB gave no indication that it would pursue
unconventional measures in the future which did come as a
disappointment to the markets,” currency strategists at BNP
Paribas SA wrote in a note to clients yesterday.  The one-year lending rate in China will fall by 31 basis
points and the one-year deposit rate will drop by 25 basis
points effective today, the People’s Bank of China said
yesterday. The BOE expanded its asset-purchase stimulus program
by 50 billion pounds ($78 billion) to 375 billion pounds.  ‘Ammunition Left’  The PBOC “has plenty of ammunition left” in terms of
stimulus, Yale University professor  Stephen Roach  said today in
an interview with Bloomberg Television. China is “on a soft-
landing and not a hard-landing trajectory,” said Roach, a
former non-executive chairman for Morgan Stanley in  Asia .  Morgan Stanley lowered its forecasts for the Aussie and
kiwi, citing the challenging environment for risk appetite amid
poor growth prospects for the global economy.  Australia’s dollar will finish the third quarter at $1
compared with an earlier projection of $1.03, and New Zealand’s
currency will decline to 79 U.S. cents over the same period from
an earlier forecast for 81 cents, Morgan Stanley said in a note
yesterday. Global growth indicators are moving to new cycle lows
while the worldwide policy response remains more muted than seen
previously, it said.  New Zealand’s budget deficit was NZ$1.13 billion ($907
million) narrower than forecast in the 11 months through May as
 tax revenue  exceeded expectations, according to a Treasury
Department report released today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  