-- Australia Posts Fifth Straight Trade Deficit as Imports Rise
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-07-05T03:00:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/australia-posts-fifth-straight-trade-deficit-as-imports-rise-1-.html
Australia’s trade deficit widened in
May for a fifth monthly shortfall as stronger imports of
industrial equipment and fuel reflected a mining-investment boom
that’s helping sustain economic growth.  Imports outpaced exports by A$285 million ($292 million),
from a revised A$26 million deficit in April, the Bureau of
Statistics said in a report in Sydney today. It was the longest
streak of monthly deficits since a 12-month run ended in 2010.
The median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 23 economists
was for a shortfall of A$500 million.  The data add to pressure on  Reserve Bank  of Australia
Governor  Glenn Stevens  to extend interest-rate cuts as  Europe ’s
fiscal crisis and slower growth in  China  threaten the trade that
drives the nation’s economy. Stevens kept borrowing costs
unchanged this week after lowering the nation’s benchmark by 75
points in May and June to 3.5 percent to aid non-resource
industries in the economy.  “Continued signs of slowing in  China’s economy  could weigh
on Australia’s exports in the forward period,” said Celeste Tay, a Singapore-based economist at 4cast Ltd. “Growth in steel
production in China has stalled more recently, a headwind for
Australia  iron ore  exports.”  The Australian dollar was little changed after the data,
trading at $1.0259 at 12:24 p.m. in Sydney.  Import Rise  Imports advanced 3 percent to a record A$27.1 billion on a
12 percent rise in industrial transport equipment and a 16
percent increase in fuels and lubricants, today’s report showed.
Exports climbed 2 percent to A$26.8 billion, the highest since
December, led by a 16 percent gain in metals, the report showed.  The value of shipments abroad of coal, Australia’s biggest
commodity export after iron ore, were little changed at A$3.6
billion, the report showed. Iron-ore exports rose in May to
A$5.5 billion, the most since October, it showed.  China is Australia’s largest trading partner, with exports
and imports between the two nations totaling A$11.1 billion in
May compared with A$9.7 billion a month earlier, according to
the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  