-- Aviva to Exit a Third of Business as Insurer Boosts Capital
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2012-07-05T16:09:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/aviva-to-exit-a-third-of-business-as-insurer-boosts-capital-1-.html
Aviva Plc (AV/) , the U.K.’s second-biggest
insurer by market value, plans to exit almost a third of its
units to bolster capital reserves and limit the impact of
further turmoil in the euro region.  The insurer plans to sell 16 non-core divisions including
U.K. bulk-purchase annuities, its South Korean unit and some
partnerships in  Italy , the London-based firm said today in a
statement. Aviva today started selling a 275 million-euro ($341
million) stake in  Delta Lloyd NV (DL) , the Dutch unit it spun off
last year.  Chairman John McFarlane began the strategic review on May
8, the same day that Chief Executive Officer  Andrew Moss  stepped
down following a shareholder protest over pay. The 65-year-old
inherited a company with 18 billion pounds ($28 billion) of
European government debt, more than any other U.K. insurer,
lower and more volatile capital reserves than competitors, and a
share price that fell 60 percent under Moss’s five-year tenure.  “The scale of the task ahead is significant and will take
time,” said  James Shuck , a London-based analyst at Jefferies
International Ltd. with a hold rating on the stock. “This is at
least a two-year turnaround story with economic capital likely
to remain below target during a volatile macro period.”  The company is aiming to bring its capital levels in line
with other insurers to between 160 percent and 170 percent of
reserves required by regulators from 140 percent today.  The stock  rose  1.1 percent to 284.60 pence in London
trading today, valuing the firm at about 8.3 billion pounds.  Dividend Payments  McFarlane said the insurer doesn’t need to cut the dividend
for now, though turmoil in the euro area may make it harder to
meet future payments, he added. The insurer has no plans to
raise equity, he said.  A sale of Aviva’s U.S. unit and its stake in Dutch insurer
 Delta Lloyd  NV could boost capital to the targeted 170 percent
level, according to Oliver Steel, an analyst with a buy rating
on the stock at Deutsche Bank AG in London.  The insurer is selling as many as 25 million shares of
Delta Lloyd, equal to a 14 percent stake in the Dutch company.
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Morgan Stanley are offering the
shares for 10.5 euros to 11 euros each, compared with today’s
11.6 euros closing price. The sale could reduce Aviva’s holding
in Delta Lloyd to as little as 27 percent.  McFarlane said today the U.S operation isn’t one of the
firm’s core “performing” units. On a call with reporters
today, he declined to comment on whether it’s one of the 16
units earmarked for sale.  “There is 6 billion pounds of capital in that category and
therefore it is reasonably significant,” he said, referring to
those business put up for sale. “Obviously it can’t be just
tiny little pieces of the organization.”  Cost-Cutting  Aviva will reduce its 2011 costs by 400 million pounds by
cutting management layers within the organization to five from
nine, it said in the statement. The cost-cutting program should
be complete by 2014, McFarlane said.  The firm also reduced its holdings of Italian sovereign
debt to 5 billion euros ($6.3 billion) in June from 6 billion
euros in May, Finance Director Pat Regan said on the call.  The insurer hired two investment banks to help conduct the
strategic review and they considered whether breaking up the
firm either by geography or by splitting its life and non-life
insurance divisions would boost the share price.  “We considered for 10 seconds that we should do that and
it became perfectly obvious that that was (a) not attractive and
(b) couldn’t be executed,” McFarlane said. “The investment
bankers looked at it as well. I think they took 20 seconds.”  The firm expects to announce a replacement CEO at the start
of next year, McFarlane said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in  London  at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  