-- Balls Slams ‘Baseless’ Osborne Libor Allegation, Seeks Probe
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a   a n d   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2012-07-05T15:25:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/balls-slams-baseless-osborne-libor-allegations-demands-probe.html
Ed Balls, the U.K. Labour Party’s top
Treasury spokesman, demanded Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  withdraw allegations linking him to manipulation of the
London interbank offered rate and called for a full judge-led
inquiry into the scandal.  Balls said allegations made by Osborne in this week’s
Spectator magazine that he leaned on the Bank of England to
pressure  Barclays Plc (BARC)  to lower their submissions to set Libor in
2008 were “baseless.” He said only a judicial probe would
“persuade the public” it was not partisan, rather than the
parliamentary inquiry the government is proposing.  “We need the inquiry to be thorough and genuinely
cathartic or else we will be here again,” Balls told the House
of Commons in London today.  Lawmakers vote this afternoon on the type of inquiry to be
held into Barclays’s Libor-rigging, determining how deeply to
examine the issue and how quickly changes to the law may follow.
The battle to set the terms of the inquiry underscores the
political effort to assign blame between the two main parties.  The Commons is debating two motions, one seeking the judge-
led inquiry into the banking industry sought by opposition
 Labour Party  leader  Ed Miliband  and the other backing the six-
month-long lawmaker-led probe focused on Libor favored by Prime
Minister  David Cameron . Voting is scheduled for around 5 p.m. in
London.  ‘Clearly Involved’  Osborne said in the Spectator that people close to former
Prime Minister  Gordon Brown , for whom Balls worked as an aide
before becoming a minister in the previous administration,
“were clearly involved” in the Libor affair and that “we just
haven’t heard the full facts.”  “My opposite number, who was the City minister for part of
this period and Gordon Brown’s right-hand man for all of it, so
he has questions to answer,” Osborne told the magazine. “That’s
 Ed Balls  by the way.”  Osborne “cannot defend here what he whispers to the
Spectator,” Balls said of the allegations. “He has no evidence
and he knows it.” The Labour lawmaker said Osborne “should
either present the evidence or withdraw the allegation against
me right now.”  Miliband’s party is likely to lose the vote, as the
Conservatives’ junior coalition partners, the Liberal Democrats,
vote with Cameron’s Tories. If he loses, Miliband must decide if
he will refuse to participate in the lawmaker-led inquiry.  “Will the Labour Party take part in it?” Osborne asked
opposition lawmakers today. “If not, you will be blocking any
inquiry into this banking scandal.”  Tyrie Proposed  Cameron has named Conservative lawmaker  Andrew Tyrie  to
lead the probe he has proposed. Seeking to avoid the appearance
of an establishment whitewash, Tyrie said he would not proceed
without Labour support.  “Confidence in banking is very low,” Tyrie told
Parliament, defending the case for a rapid parliamentary probe.
“This is bad for Britain.”  Tyrie, a former adviser to  John Major  and  Nigel Lawson  when
they were chancellors and a lawmaker since 1997, described the
Libor scandal as “the worst case of City malpractice I can
recall.”  Barclays, the U.K.’s second-largest bank by assets, was
fined a record 290 million pounds ($453 million) on June 25 for
rigging Libor, a global benchmark. Chairman Marcus Agius, Chief
Executive Officer  Robert Diamond  and Chief Operating Officer
Jerry Del Missier subsequently resigned. Agius is staying on
while a successor to Diamond is found.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net ;
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  