-- Banks Pad Profits as U.S. Prolongs Refinancing Boom: Mortgages
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   M .   H o w l e y   a n d   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-07-05T16:54:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/banks-pad-profits-as-u-s-prolongs-refinancing-boom-mortgages.html
The biggest U.S. mortgage lenders,
whose first-quarter earnings were buoyed by gains on home-loan
 refinancings , are raking in more profits as record-low  interest
rates  and government efforts prolong the boom.  Revised federal programs making it easier for homeowners to
lock in lower rates helped push the  Mortgage Bankers Association 
refinancing index to a three-year high last month. That signals
a windfall for banks including  Wells Fargo (WFC)  & Co. that renewed
about 5 million loans in 2011 amid the  Federal Reserve ’s drive
to keep borrowing costs near zero. Wells Fargo is the nation’s
largest home lender.  Refinancings probably rose 4.2 percent to $275 billion in
the quarter ended last week, the bankers group forecast, three
months after saying the boom was over. About 5.6 million loans
will be refinanced this year, said  Keith Gumbinger , vice
president of HSH Associates, a mortgage-research firm in Pompton
Plains,  New Jersey .  “We keep refinancing and coming up with new programs to
get to the bottom of the housing market,” said  Nancy Bush , an
analyst and contributing editor at SNL Financial, a bank-
research firm in Charlottesville, Virginia. “This fits into the
general narrative that we are not yet out of the market
aberrations from 2008 and 2009.” Government efforts are
“pushing revenue” to the banks, she said.  Wells Fargo, based in San Francisco, posted $2.87 billion
in mortgage-banking income in the three months ended March 31,
the most since the final quarter of 2009, according to the
bank’s statements.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  set a record for home-
loan production income amid gains from the federal Home
Affordable Refinance Program, or HARP.  ‘Best Idea’  JPMorgan analysts led by Vivek Juneja said in a July 2
report that Wells Fargo stock is their “best idea” among the
largest U.S. banks, in part because of its “strong mortgage-
origination revenues.” Its shares fell 1.1 percent to $33.11 at
12:51 p.m. in  New York , paring this year’s gain to 20 percent.  While a boon for banks, the Obama administration’s housing
policies and Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s cheap
cash also are giving consumers the chance to save as much as $14
billion a year. The average borrower saves about $2,500 a year
in a loan renewal, said  Mark Zandi , chief economist at Moody’s
Analytics Inc. in West Chester, Pennsylvania.  The government last year eased standards for HARP, giving
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac borrowers an opportunity to refinance
no matter how little equity they have in their homes. During a
conference call with analysts in May, Wells Fargo Chief
Executive Officer  John Stumpf  said the lender’s origination
volume has been helped by HARP.  “I suspect there will be continued volume there,” Stumpf
said.  Federal Initiative  A federal program that went into effect June 11 attempts to
bolster refinancing of FHA mortgages. The so-called Streamline
program allows people with existing FHA mortgages to refinance
without credit checks, home appraisals or minimum income
requirements.  The government refinancing  index  more than doubled in the
week ended June 15. While the measure dropped 21.5 percent for
the period ended June 29, it “continues to be at an elevated
level,” Morgan Stanley analyst Janaki Rao said a note today.  “We expect high customer demand for this product,” Vickee Adams, a Wells Fargo spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed statement.
The bank started accepting FHA Streamline applications on June
19 and has more than 500,000 customers who may qualify, she
said.  Higher Margins  Banks are profiting on the spread between the price at
which they fund the loan and what they sell it for to Fannie Mae
and Freddie Mac -- the so-called gain on sale -- according to
analysts including  Paul Miller , managing director at FBR Capital
Markets Corp. in Arlington, Virginia. The gain on sale that
accrues when a loan is sold to a third party for more than its
previous value was 2.36 percent for Wells Fargo in the first
quarter, compared with 1.9 percent in the fourth quarter, Chief
Financial Officer Timothy J. Sloan said April 1  Gain-on-sale margins may be in line with the first quarter,
if not higher, Miller wrote in a June 18 report, based on the
firm’s industry contacts.  “We look for strong gain-on-sale margins to be carried
into 3Q12 given high volumes and the lack of capacity in the
market today,” he said.  Lenders are being helped by a June 21 Federal Reserve
pledge to extend by $267 billion a bond-buying program to
replace short-term securities with longer-term debt -- a $267
billion bid to sustain the cheapest home-loan rates on record.  A deepening of the  European debt crisis  also will keep
international “panic money” invested in U.S. mortgage bonds at
least through September, said Gumbinger of HSH.  Europe Crisis  The average rate for a 30-year fixed  mortgage  fell to 3.62
percent in the week ended today from 4.08 percent in March,
according to  Freddie Mac . It’s the lowest in the McLean,
Virginia-based mortgage-finance company’s records dating to
1971, as investor concern grew that Europe’s debt crisis was
worsening, which bolstered demand for U.S. government bonds.  Homeowner refinancing damages investors in mortgage bonds
trading for more than face value by returning their principal
faster at par and curbing interest. Still, the pace has failed
to exceed the levels that holders braced for last year, and the
same demand for safe assets from Europe’s sovereign fiscal
crisis has benefited government-backed mortgage securities.  The debt returned 1.11 percent last quarter, bringing gains
for the first half to 1.72 percent, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch’s Mortgage Master index. The quarterly returns
were the best since the third period of last year, when the debt
produced 2.32 percent.  Deficient Loans  Despite the additional revenue banks are getting as
middlemen in the government’s housing programs, they are at risk
if  Fannie Mae , Freddie Mac and the  Federal Housing
Administration  later seek to force lenders to buy back deficient
or soured loans, Christopher Kotowski, an analyst at Oppenheimer
& Co. in New York, said in a telephone interview.  “You’re asking the banks to be the feet on the street to
distribute this government-subsidized product,” he said. “The
whole business is more trouble than it’s worth.”  Banks have responded by tightening lending standards.
Properties being refinanced typically need to be valued at a
level that gives homeowners 20 percent equity, or else borrowers
need to purchase costly  mortgage insurance . Credit-score
standards are strict, and debt levels usually are capped at the
most conservative levels in more than a decade.  “It’s incredible trying to get a refi -- they put you
through the wringer,” said Joanne Lee, a nutritionist in
Weymouth,  Massachusetts , who has refinanced her home loan three
times in the past three years to catch lower rates, without
using a federal program. “We’ve had to provide a stack of
paperwork, and fax and re-fax documents again and again.”  Mixed Results  Government programs to bolster the mortgage market so far
have had mixed results. When President  Barack Obama  announced
the Home Affordable Modification Program, or HAMP, in 2009 he
set a goal of 3 million to 4 million renewed loans by the end of
2012. Only 801,538 have been permanently modified, and more than
half of one-year-old modified loans have re-defaulted, according
to government data. The program pays servicers bonuses of about
$2,000 to modify loans.  Still, the U.S. housing market is showing signs of
recovery. While home values in 20 U.S. cities fell to the lowest
level in a decade in March, the decrease from the prior month
was the smallest since the beginning of the housing boom,
according to the  S&P/Case-Shiller index . Pending home resales
climbed 5.9 percent in May, matching a two-year high reached in
March, the National Association of Realtors said. Sales of new
houses rose a seasonally adjusted 7.6 percent in the same month,
according to the Commerce Department.  “The government is trying to stuff everyone they possibly
can through some sort of refinance program because it puts
families on firmer footing financially, and that’s a boost to
the economy when people can spend,” said Gumbinger of HSH.
“Whether it works remains to be seen.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen M. Howley in Boston at 
 kmhowley@bloomberg.net ;
Dakin Campbell in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  