-- Bank of England MPC Comments After July Rate Decision (Text)
-- B y   M a r k   E v a n s
-- 2012-07-05T11:05:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/bank-of-england-mpc-comments-after-july-rate-decision-text-.html
The following is the text of the
 Bank of England  Monetary Policy Committee comments following
the July rate decision:  The  Bank of England ’s Monetary Policy Committee today voted to
maintain the official Bank Rate paid on commercial bank reserves
at 0.5%.  The Committee also voted to increase the size of its
asset purchase programme, financed by the issuance of central
bank reserves, by GBP50 billion to a total of GBP375 billion.  UK output has barely grown for a year and a half and is
estimated to have fallen in both of the past two quarters.  The
pace of expansion in most of the  United Kingdom ’s main export
markets also appears to have slowed.  Business indicators point
to a continuation of that weakness in the near term, both at
home and abroad.  In spite of the progress made at the latest
European Council, concerns remain about the indebtedness and
competitiveness of several euro-area economies, and that is
weighing on confidence here.  The correspondingly weaker outlook
for UK output growth means that the margin of economic slack is
likely to be greater and more persistent.  CPI inflation fell to 2.8% in May and is likely to edge down
further in the near term.  Commodity prices have fallen, which
should help to moderate external price pressures.  And pay
growth remains subdued. Given the continuing drag from economic
slack, that should ensure inflation continues to ease into the
medium term.  At its meeting today, the Committee agreed that the Funding for
Lending Scheme, which would be launched shortly, was a welcome
initiative.  It also noted recent and prospective actions to
ease liquidity constraints within the banking system.  Taken
together with reduced pressure on household real incomes, on the
back of lower commodity prices, and the continued stimulus from
past monetary policy actions, that should sustain a gradual
strengthening of output growth.  But against the background of continuing tight credit conditions
and fiscal consolidation, the increased drag from the heightened
tensions within the euro area meant that, without additional
monetary stimulus, it was more likely than not that inflation
would undershoot the target in the medium term.  The Committee
therefore voted to increase the size of its programme of asset
purchases, financed by the issuance of central bank reserves, by
GBP50 billion to a total of GBP375 billion.  The Committee also
voted to maintain  Bank Rate  at 0.5%. The Committee expects the
announced programme of asset purchases to take four months to
complete.  The scale of the programme will be kept under review.  The minutes of the meeting will be published at 9.30am on
Wednesday 18 July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Evans   in London at 
 mevans8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  