-- Barclays Corrupts Libor and Maybe a Lot More
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 2012-07-05T22:30:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/barclays-corrupts-libor-and-maybe-a-lot-more.html
If  Barclays Plc (BARC)  would lie about its
borrowing costs, what else would it lie about?  That question gets to the heart of the damage Barclays did
to itself by submitting false numbers for years to the British
Bankers’ Association as part of the surveys used to set the
London interbank offered rate, the benchmark for $360 trillion
of financial instruments globally. The most important asset any
bank has is trust -- especially when it comes to the figures on
its own financial statements. Whatever credibility Barclays had,
it’s been poured down the drain like last night’s suds.  Andrea Leadsom, a member of the U.K. parliamentary
committee that grilled former Barclays Chief Executive Officer
 Robert Diamond  at a hearing two days ago, framed the issue well
when she asked Diamond: “In light of the fact that your audit
failed to notice for several years that there was fraud and
corruption going on under your noses and very openly, have you
now looked at other areas of the bank to see whether something
like that has been going on there for years, too?”  Diamond, who resigned July 3, replied: “Of course.” His
terse response came off as less than credible. Later he said:
“The way to do that is to start by going through our processes
and our controls and our audit reports. And if someone wasn’t
happy with those and made suggestions that there were other
places to look, of course we would do it.” So, perhaps Barclays
made such an inquiry. Or maybe it would, if someone became
unhappy. It’s hard to tell.  Trust Deficit  The trust deficit is evident in Barclays’s market value. At
20.6 billion pounds ($32 billion), Barclays trades for a mere 37
percent of its common shareholder  equity , which shows that
investors believe most of its 55.6 billion pounds of book value
is fictional. The price-to-book discount also can be explained
partly by the soft nature of some of the bank’s assets.  Barclays showed 7.8 billion pounds of intangibles as of
Dec. 31 -- things like goodwill and customer lists -- as well as
3 billion pounds of deferred tax assets. Such items would be
useless in a crisis. (Barclays discloses full financial
statements twice a year and has yet to provide results for the
first half of 2012.)  Additionally, in the footnotes to its  annual report , the
company said the fair market value of its loans was 14.6 billion
pounds less than their carrying value on its books. The bank
also said about 32 billion pounds of its financial assets were
of the Level 3 variety, which means their values depended on
data that weren’t observable in the marketplace, making them
easy to fudge. The less investors trust Barclays, the less they
will trust these kinds of subjective estimates.  Barclays shares fell 16 percent after news broke last week
that the company had been fined $453 million by U.S. and U.K.
authorities. Clearly, Diamond and Barclays’s outgoing chairman,
Marcus Agius, who will leave after helping find Diamond’s
successor, had to step aside to show the company cared about its
reputation. (The company’s chief operating officer, Jerry Del Missier, also resigned.)  It must do more. For instance, the head of Barclays’s audit
committee, Michael Rake, was the  chairman  of the accounting
giant KPMG International when its U.S. affiliate, KPMG LLP, was
caught selling fraudulent tax shelters to hundreds of wealthy
Americans. That resulted in $456 million of fines by the  Justice
Department  in 2005 and an admission of criminal wrongdoing by
the U.S. firm. Although Rake wasn’t implicated in any way, his
promotion this week to deputy chairman of Barclays looks like an
obvious case of the wrong person for the job at a time when
appearances are everything.  Gaffe Effect  Barclays’s auditor, PricewaterhouseCoopers, looks more like
a public-relations firm than a skeptical watchdog. Last year, as
part of its annual “ Building Public Trust Awards ,” it gave
Barclays two runner-up accolades, including one in the category
of “tax reporting,” according to the firm’s website.  Talk about a gaffe: Last month a Milan judge ordered 20
bankers and former managers of Barclays and the Italian bank
UniCredit SpA to  stand trial  on tax-fraud charges. The tax probe
was linked to a complex investment plan arranged by Barclays
known as Brontos, where interest payments on deposit accounts
allegedly were made to look like dividends, which were taxed at
lower rates, according to a June 5 article by Bloomberg News.  Barclays in a statement last month said it didn’t violate
any laws. Members of Parliament at this week’s hearing also
noted that Barclays’s accounting practices have come under
regulatory scrutiny before -- particularly the bank’s use of a
Cayman Islands  company  called  Protium  in 2009 to transfer
several billion pounds of troubled assets off its balance sheet.  What’s truly depressing is the thought that Barclays is
only the first bank to settle with regulators over the Libor
affair. Eventually, when others reach their own accords, similar
inquiries will be made of their top officers.  Enforcing the law may be destabilizing at times. It also is
necessary. Hopefully banking regulators now are waking up to
this realization for good. A proper reckoning for the industry
has been a long time coming.  ( Jonathan Weil  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on the best outcome of  Libya’s
messy elections  and what ex-Barclays CEO Robert Diamond  should
have been asked  by members of Parliament; Stephen L. Carter on
the  uselessness of the vice presidency ;  Noah Feldman  explains
why  liberals should be happy  with the  Supreme Court ;  Enrique
Krauze  on  democracy and new leadership  in  Mexico ; Vali Nasr on
the U.S.  apology to Pakistan ; William Pesek on  economic
development in the Mekong River region .  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Weil in  New York  at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  