-- Barclays Demands $1.3 Billion in Lehman Brokerage Appeal
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-07-05T17:21:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/barclays-demands-1-3-billion-in-lehman-brokerage-appeal.html
Barclays Plc (BARC)  challenged a ruling in
its court fight with defunct brokerage  Lehman Brothers Inc .,
saying it has an “unconditional” right to $769 million that a
federal judge denied and wants an additional $507 million in
margin assets delivered immediately.  The London-based bank, which bought Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc.’s North American business during the 2008 credit
crisis, won as much as $5.5 billion in last month’s ruling. U.S.
District Judge Katherine Forrest ordered brokerage liquidator
James Giddens to pay money owed to Barclays and renounce his
claim to margin assets that backed trading operations the bank
took over from Lehman.  Barclays now wants all of the remaining $1.3 billion in
assets that are in dispute, according to an appeal to the  U.S.
Court of Appeals  in Manhattan. A notice of appeal reached the
district court today.  Barclays, the U.K.’s second-largest bank by assets, was
fined a record 290 million pounds ($453 million) on June 25 for
rigging Libor, a global benchmark  interest rate . In the U.S., it
successfully defeated an $11 billion lawsuit by Lehman Brothers
Holdings.  Giddens Appeal  The bank continues to fight Giddens over the remains of the
$7 billion he originally demanded from Barclays. The trustee
said he didn’t read last-minute changes to the sale contract in
the chaos after the Lehman parent filed the biggest bankruptcy
in U.S. history, with $613 billion in debt.  Giddens also has appealed Forrest’s ruling, saying he needs
money to pay  hedge funds  and other customers. Elliott Management
Corp. last week demanded that Giddens make an initial $3.2
billion payment to creditors.  The Lehman parent, based in New York, is still buying and
selling assets after exiting bankruptcy, with plans to pay
creditors an average of about 18 cents on the dollar.  The district court case is Giddens v. Barclays Capital
Inc., 11-cv-06052, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  