-- Billionaire Del Valle Tries 87-Fold Return Plan on Pochteca
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n
-- 2012-07-05T20:52:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/billionaire-del-valle-tries-87-fold-return-strategy-on-pochteca.html
Antonio del Valle, the billionaire
investor behind chemical maker Mexichem SAB’s 87-fold stock
rally over the past decade, said he can turn around the biggest
loser in his holdings by buying companies in the fragmented
chemical distribution  market .  Pochteca SAB (POCHTECB) , the Mexico City-based distributor of
industrial greases and solvents that lost 47 percent since 2005,
will pursue acquisition-driven growth, emulating the plan that
made Mexichem the second best-performing stock in  Latin America 
over the past decade, del Valle said. He invested in a 300
million peso ($22.5 million) capital increase, equal to 20
percent of Pochteca’s market value, in April after placing ex-
Mexichem executives in key posts last year to strengthen the
company.  “I don’t just think it; I’m doing it,” del Valle, 73,
said in a June 21 telephone interview from Mexico City. “We
went all in with the capital increase,” buying the maximum
allowed to bring his family’s personal stake to about 28
percent, he said. “It has a big future ahead of it on the
Mexican stock exchange.”  Pochteca has underperformed 65 percent of stocks on the
nation’s main  small-capitalization  index over the past seven
years.  Del Valle  said hidden liabilities including debts to
suppliers and unpaid taxes plagued the chemicals distributor
until last year, when it produced its first annual profit under
the new ownership.  Share Rally  The stock has gained 53 percent since Oct. 21, when the
company named Ricardo Gutierrez, an ex-Mexichem chief executive
officer, as chairman of the board. The company also hired
Armando Vallejo, a former head of finance at Mexichem, as chief
financial officer reporting to Chief Executive Officer Armando Santacruz, who is del Valle’s son-in-law.  The shares surged 13 percent to 2.69 pesos today, the
biggest jump since May 2009.  With del Valle’s backing, Pochteca is poised to benefit
from a consolidation in  Mexico ’s chemical distribution industry,
where no company holds more than 5 percent of the market, said
Fernando Perez Lizardi, an analyst with Corporativo GBM SAB, the
country’s largest brokerage by transactions.  “They want Pochteca to be a repeat of the Mexichem success
story,” Perez Lizardi said in a telephone interview from Mexico
City. “The chemical distribution market is very fragmented.
That gives them a great opportunity to consolidate the market
and buy different things.”  Family Empire  Mexichem, whose decade-long rally has only been topped in
the region by Sao Paulo-based Raia Drogasil SA, used
acquisitions to spark 17-fold revenue growth and a near doubling
in profitability over the past decade, buying more than 15
companies since 2007. This year, it forecasts revenue will grow
by another 30 percent.  The del Valle family, led by patriarch Antonio, owned 48
percent of Mexichem as of Dec. 31, worth $3.9 billion at today’s
closing  price  of 58.34 pesos. Family members and their in-laws
hold about 63 percent of Pochteca.  Del Valle got his start in banking. He served as CEO of
Grupo Financiero Bital SA before HSBC Holdings Plc purchased it
in 2002. HSBC made part of the payment for the bank by turning
over shares in Mexichem, then known as Grupo Industrial Camesa,
giving del Valle his start in the company.  Del Valle also owns closely held lender Grupo Financiero Ve
Por Mas SA and Elementia SA, which makes copper and aluminum
products and is part-owned by  Carlos Slim , the world’s richest
man according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index . Del Valle
controls all three stakes through his holding company, Grupo
Empresarial Kaluz SA. He said Elementia will sell shares in an
initial public offering as soon as this year.  Low Priority  Optimism that del Valle can turn any company he acquires
into a winner has been blunted by the seven years it’s taken him
to prop up Pochteca shares, said  Gerardo Copca , an analyst with
Metanalisis SA.  “Seven years is a long time,” Copca said in a telephone
interview from Mexico City. “When you buy something you have to
set a time goal for when you’re going to see a return on your
investment.”  The company sold 167 million pesos of shares in April in
part to bolster trading in the company and lure more investors.
Average daily  volume  was about 450,000 shares in June, double
the average in April, while the portion of Pochteca’s stock
available to the market climbed to about 27 percent from 18
percent.  The company’s 1.7 billion peso market capitalization equals
1.6 percent that of Mexichem, which had a value of 1.1 billion
pesos when del Valle took over in 2002. Pochteca’s sales were
about 8.5 percent of Mexichem’s in 2011.  Aztec Merchants  The stock’s five-year slump compares with a 24 percent
rally for Mexico’s  benchmark  index in the period. The  IRT Small
Capitalization (IRTSMALL)  index of Mexican equities added 22 percent.  Pochteca, named after a group of traveling merchants during
the Aztec Empire in the 15th century, started as a paper company
in 1988. In 2005, closely held Pochteca bought the publicly
traded chemical distributor Dermet de Mexico and moved both
businesses under the same name, eventually dropping the Dermet
brand altogether.  “Dermet was a mess in every single sense of the word,”
Pochteca’s CEO Santacruz said in an April 16 interview at the
company’s headquarters in Mexico City. “We had quite a learning
process there. We now have a pretty well-developed methodology
to be able to incorporate new companies in the firm without
major turbulence.”  Santacruz, 50, who earned an MBA at  Harvard Business School 
in Cambridge, Mass., said smaller competitors are struggling to
keep pace with increasing safety standards required for chemical
distribution.  Kraft, Bombardier  Pochteca acquired Alcoholes Desnaturalizados y Diluentes,
known as Adydsa, including its two solvent plants and 21
distribution centers, in 2008, and bought the exclusive rights
to distribute Shell brand lubricants in Mexico in 2010. In
April, Pochteca bought a plant to manufacture coolants and
cleaning liquids under the Shell brand, and plans to buy more
companies in the next year to expand its offerings and
geographic reach, Santacruz said.  The company supplies chemicals to businesses including
Bombardier Inc., the world’s biggest maker of  business jets , and
 Kraft Foods Inc. (KFT) , the second-largest food producer. Pochteca has
distribution in more than 500 Mexican cities, which Santacruz
says gives it “the deepest penetration” in the market.  Pochteca’s earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization, a measure known as Ebitda, climbed 12 percent
to 59 million pesos in the second quarter, according to
preliminary results sent to the Mexican bourse on June 29. Sales
rose 4 percent to 1 billion pesos while net debt dropped 53
percent to 260 million pesos, or 1.25 times trailing 12-month
Ebitda, a record low.  “All they have to do is focus on growth, on making the
business better,” del Valle said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  