-- BOE Restarts QE as Euro Crisis Threatens to Prolong Slump
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-07-05T13:18:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/boe-restarts-stimulus-as-euro-crisis-threatens-to-prolong-slump.html
The  Bank of England  restarted bond
purchases two months after halting its expansion of stimulus as
the deteriorating outlook spurred policy makers to ramp up
efforts to kick start a recovery.  The Monetary Policy Committee led by Governor  Mervyn King 
raised its asset-purchase target by 50 billion pounds ($78
billion) to 375 billion pounds and said the purchases will take
four months to complete. Separately, the  European Central Bank 
cut its  key interest rate  below 1 percent for the first time and
 China  lowered benchmark rates for the second time in a month.  The Bank of England’s resumption of quantitative easing is
a part of a twin-pronged effort that includes a new credit-
boosting program by the central bank to pull Britain out of a
 recession . With inflation easing and reports this week showing
that factory,  services  and construction activity weakened in
June, policy makers were spurred to act by continued concerns
about the threat from the euro-area debt crisis.  “It’s a good decision and they need to do it because the
recovery is taking so long,” said  George Buckley , an economist
at Deutsche Bank AG in London. “This is as much a decision to
offset the future downside risks from the euro area as it is to
try and support the rather flagging recovery.”  U.K. 10-year government bonds pared their advance after the
announcement. Ten-year gilt yields were down 2 basis points at
1.7 percent as of 2:13 p.m., after falling as much as five basis
points before the decision. The pound traded at $1.5520, down
0.4 percent on the day.  Rate Cuts  The ECB cut its main rate to 0.75 percent from 1 percent
and its overnight deposit rate to zero. The People’s Bank of
China said its one-year lending rate will fall by 31 basis
points and the one-year deposit rate will drop by 25 basis
points effective tomorrow.  Some “downside risks to the euro-area economic outlook
have materialized,” ECB President  Mario Draghi  said at a press
conference in  Frankfurt . ‘‘Economic growth in the euro area
continues to remain weak.’’  Explaining its decision, the Bank of England said it
expects  inflation  will continue to ease and that without more
stimulus, it was ‘‘more likely than not’’ to undershoot the 2
percent target in the medium term. The economy has contracted
for the past two quarters and indicators ‘‘point to a
continuation of that weakness in the near term, both at home and
abroad,’’ it said.  ‘‘In spite of the progress made at the latest European
Council, concerns remain about the indebtedness and
competitiveness of several euro-area economies, and that is
weighing on confidence here,’’ the central bank said.  BOE Survey  Thirty one of 41 economists in a Bloomberg News  survey 
correctly forecast the Bank of England’s expansion. Two forecast
no change, one forecast a 25 billion-pound increase and seven
predicted an addition of 75 billion pounds.  Policy makers also left their  benchmark rate  at a record
low of 0.5 percent today. The central bank will publish the
minutes of today’s meeting on July 18.  Vicky Redwood, an economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in
 London , said today’s QE expansion is unlikely to be the last and
forecast another loosening in November.  ‘‘We think that the MPC will give the economy even more
support in the coming months in order to get the recovery back
on track and prevent a significant undershoot of the inflation
target,” she said in an e-mailed note.  While inflation has held above the central bank’s 2 percent
target since December 2009, it slowed to the weakest in 2 1/2
years in May. The central bank forecast in May that consumer
price growth will ease to about 1.6 percent in two years.  Bank Funding  Reports this week showed U.K.  manufacturing  and building
output dropped in June and services expanded at the slowest pace
in eight months as the government’s fiscal squeeze and the euro-
area debt crisis hampered demand. King said on June 26 that the
global economic outlook has deteriorated since the central bank
published forecasts on May 16.  In addition to weighing on export demand and confidence,
the euro crisis is pushing up banks’ funding costs and
curtailing lending. The Bank of England’s response includes a
program to boost credit to companies and households and a
sterling liquidity facility for banks.  European leaders took a step toward resolving the turmoil
last week, easing the terms on loans to Spanish banks and paving
the way for cash-strapped lenders to tap their bailout fund
directly.  Still, the impact of the euro crisis is being compounded by
signs of slowing growth in the U.S. and in  Asia . The
 International Monetary Fund  cut its 2012 and 2013 U.S. growth
forecasts this week and said the world’s largest economy remains
“subject to elevated downside risks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  