-- BOE’s Tucker to Give Evidence to Lawmakers on Libor on July 9
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n   a n d   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-07-05T15:08:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/boe-s-tucker-to-give-evidence-to-lawmakers-on-libor-on-july-9.html
Bank of England Deputy Governor Paul Tucker will appear before Parliament on July 9 after lawmakers
agreed to hear his version of a 2008 phone call with former
Barclays’ Plc chief  Robert Diamond  on Libor rates.  Tucker will give evidence “on issues relating to the
penalties levied against Barclays by authorities in the U.K. and
the U.S. following an investigation into the submission of
various interbank offered rates,” the Treasury Select Committee
said in an e-mailed statement today. The panel also rescheduled
a hearing with Barclays Chairman Marcus Agius for July 10.  Tucker made a request to appear before the cross-party
panel of lawmakers yesterday, 90 minutes before Diamond started
his testimony on the Libor scandal. Diamond, who quit this week,
was ordered to testify after Barclays agreed to pay a record
$455 million fine for rigging the  London  interbank offered rate.  Tucker will begin giving evidence at 4:30 p.m. on July 10
in London. Agius will appear the following day at 10 a.m.  The  Bank of England  policy maker was drawn into the furor
after Barclays published two days ago Diamond’s notes on a 2008
phone call about Barclays’ Libor submissions. The memo said
Tucker, at the time markets director at the central bank, told
Diamond that “senior” Whitehall officials asked why the
submissions were always at the “top end,” and that “it did
not always need to be the case that we appeared as high as we
have recently.”  Diamond Testimony  Diamond told lawmakers yesterday that he had asked Tucker
to tell the officials that not all banks were providing quotes
that represented the true level at which they could borrow money
and that he was concerned the lender could have been
nationalized if officials believed it was having difficulties
obtaining funding. He also said he didn’t interpret the
conversation as a request to change Barclays’s Libor
submissions.  “My reaction to that note was appreciation of  Paul Tucker 
in doing his job,” Diamond said. “What he was trying to tell
me is, ‘Bob, there are ministers in Whitehall who are hearing
that Barclays are always high. That could lead to the impression
that you’re not funding yourself.’”  Testimony from Agius, Barclays’ chairman, was originally
scheduled for yesterday. He said this week he planned to resign,
though he will now remain to oversee the search for Diamond’s
successor before leaving.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  