-- BOJ Raises Economic View of All Regions, First Time Since 2009
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 2012-07-05T07:09:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/boj-raises-economic-view-of-all-regions-first-time-since-2009.html
The  Bank of Japan  raised its economic
evaluation of all regions for the first time in more than two
years, citing improvements in  consumer spending  and rebuilding
demand from last year’s earthquake.  This is the first time the bank has raised the evaluation
of all 9 regions since October 2009, the central bank said in a
briefing after it released its quarterly Sakura Report, the
equivalent of the U.S. Federal Reserve’s Beige Book, in  Tokyo 
today. The report groups the nation’s 47 prefectures into nine
geographic regions.  Governor Masaaki Shirakawa said earlier today the economy
is starting to pick up, pledging to pursue appropriate policy as
the bank promotes powerful monetary easing. The bank will review
its forecasts for growth and inflation for the 2012 and 2013
fiscal years at the policy meeting next week.  “It’s difficult to see any need for urgent additional
easing, considering the soundness of the domestic economy at
this point,” said Akio Makabe, an economics professor at
 Shinshu University  in central  Japan . At the meeting next week,
“the BOJ will probably gauge the effect of stimulus measures
already implemented while it will keep paying close attention”
to developments abroad, he said.  Seven of the nine regions cited personal spending supported
by government incentives to buy automobiles as well as
rebuilding demand as reasons for improvement, according to
today’s report.  “Many regions noted that the economy had been recovering
moderately or picking up, while some regions noted that the
economy continued to pause generally although there were signs
of picking up,” the report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  