-- Bradesco Is No. 1 in Brazil M&A for First Time in 9 Years
-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i
-- 2012-07-05T03:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/bradesco-is-no-1-in-brazil-m-a-for-first-time-in-9-years.html
Banco Bradesco SA (BBDC4)  was  Brazil ’s top
merger-and-acquisition adviser last quarter for the first time
in more than nine years.  The lender’s investment bank, Bradesco BBI, advised on 10
deals totaling $5.95 billion announced during the period,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Total volume decreased
28 percent from the first quarter to $16 billion, giving the
Osasco-based company a 37 percent market share.  Bradesco pushed Banco Itau BBA SA from the top of the
rankings after it was picked for the largest deal announced in
the quarter, advising Cosan SA Industria & Comercio on its
planned purchase of a stake in Cia. de Gas de Sao Paulo for 3.4
billion reais ($1.7 billion). Local banks such as Bradesco and
Sao Paulo-based Itau are expanding in the M&A market by hiring
away dealmakers and squeezing out foreign firms grappling with
stricter  capital requirements  in their home markets.  “We are just starting to reap the gains of our long-term
investments,” Sergio Clemente, an  executive director  at
Bradesco, said in an interview. The company hired 30 people in
the past two years for investment banking, Clemente said, and
rose to No. 2 in equity underwriting in Brazil in the first half
of 2012 from third for all of last year.  Clemente, who was responsible for Bradesco’s corporate,
mid-size companies and international areas, added the broker-
dealer, investment banking, asset management and private-banking
to his list of responsibilities in January. Alessandro Decio Farkuh is Bradesco’s head of M&A.  Strategic Decisions  “We were already in on companies’ day-to-day decisions and
now we have an  investment-banking  platform that allows us to
participate more and more on the strategic ones,” Clemente said
in an interview. Bradesco has more than 18,000 corporate clients
with about 220 billion reais in outstanding loans, according to
Clemente.  Bradesco also advised cement maker Camargo Correa SA in the
second-biggest takeover announced this year, a $5.43 billion
buyout of Cimpor-Cimentos de Portugal SGPS shares. After the
transaction, Sao Paulo-based Camargo Correa owns more than 90 
percent of the Portuguese cement company.  “We are by far the biggest in acquisition financing in
Brazil,” Farkuh said.  Itau fell to fourth place among M&A advisers in the second
quarter, behind Sao Paulo-based  Banco BTG Pactual SA (BBTG11)  and  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC) , based in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina .  The number of M&A transactions in the second quarter
increased to 208 from 161 in the first three months of the year,
the data show.  Antitrust Rules  “A lot of companies rushed to close their deals before the
change in the antitrust rules in Brazil, on May 29, took
place,” said Marcos Goncalves, head of M&A for BTG Pactual,
referring to new regulations that force companies to obtain pre-
approval for acquisitions from the nation’s antitrust regulator,
known as Cade. BTG Pactual ranked first for all of last year and
was fifth in the first quarter.  Some companies postponed deals to gauge the impact of the
new regulations and  Europe ’s debt crisis, Goncalves said. “We
have a very strong pipeline in the second half of the year,” he
said.  The biggest announced transaction for the year is the
proposed buyout of  Redecard SA (RDCD3)  by  Itau Unibanco Holding SA (ITUB)  for
about $6.8 billion. The transaction helped Banco Itau BBA,
Itau’s wholesale banking arm, reach the top ranking for the
first half of 2012.  Citigroup Inc. (C)  ranked third for the first half of 2012, up
from 16th in the same period of last year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Cross Border  “Our global platform has helped us leverage our top
Brazilian team and work on cross-border deals like the Camargo
Correa one,” said David Panico, managing-director of
Citigroup’s investment bank in Brazil. New York-based Citigroup
helped advise Camargo Correa on the transaction.  In March 2011, Citigroup hired Itau’s former head of
investment banking, Andre Kok, to lead global banking for
Brazil. Kok hired Renato Polizzi from Itau and David Panico from
Bank of America as managing directors for Brazil investment
banking.  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  ranked second for the first half of
2012, the same spot the Zurich-based bank held in the first six
months of last year.  “We had some big transactions this year, and I believe the
second half can be better for M&A activity than the first,”
said Fabio Mourão, a Credit Suisse managing director responsible
for M&A.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  