-- California Assembly Approves Spending on High-Speed Rail
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2012-07-05T23:55:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/california-assembly-approves-spending-on-high-speed-rail.html
California’s Assembly gave
preliminary approval to begin construction of a $68 billion
high-speed passenger rail line down the spine of the most
populous U.S. state, even as polls show waning public support.  The  bill  advances to the Senate and Governor  Jerry Brown ,
an advocate of the bullet-train to link  San Francisco  and Los
Angeles. It authorizes the state to begin selling $2.6 billion
of bonds already approved by voters. The federal government has
promised $3.3 billion in matching funds.  “We’ve spent two years talking about if and how this
project should be built,” said Bob Blumenfield, a Van Nuys
Democrat who chairs the Assembly budget committee. “It’s time
we move forward with this project.”  California is the only U.S. state working to lay tracks for
trains running as fast as 220 miles an hour (354 kilometers an
hour), after Congress cut off 2012 funds for such projects. The
plan has been criticized for its cost, choice of routes and the
wisdom of spending on high-speed rail when deficits have led to
deep cuts to schools and the poor.  While 53 percent of voters approved bonds for the project
in 2008, 59 percent would now oppose the plan if given another
chance to vote, according to a USC Dornsife/Los Angeles Times
 poll  released June 3 . In a  Field Poll  released today, one in
three likely voters said they’d be less inclined to support
Brown’s proposal for a tax increase if lawmakers approved the
rail funding.  Lower Price  The  California  High-Speed Rail Authority in April chopped
$30 billion off a price tag that had ballooned to $98.5 billion
for the system. When voters approved the the bonds, the state
was estimating the cost at $43 billion.  “This is absolutely nuts,” said Assemblyman Tim Donnelly,
a Republican from San Bernardino. “We’re going to build a train
we don’t need, with money we don’t have. I can’t believe we are
even having this conversation.”  If bond sales go ahead, the state will start construction
on the first 130-mile stretch of rail down California’s Central
Valley. It’s that initial route, connecting the least populated
portion of the state, that has spurred opposition to the plan.  The route runs from Merced, about 120 miles south of
Sacramento, the capital, to the San Fernando Valley, north of
 Los Angeles . To connect with the population centers of Los
Angeles and San Francisco, the bill authorizes $2 billion of
bond funds to upgrade existing commuter and freight lines to
handle high-speed traffic.  California is already the most indebted U.S. state, with
$73.2 billion of general-obligation bonds outstanding and the
authority to sell another $33.1 billion.  Bond Offerings  The high-speed rail debt won’t be sold as a separate
offering. Instead, it’s to be part of multiple general-
obligation bond offerings from which the proceeds are used for
various purposes such as schools, roads and bridges.  An initiative on the November ballot, sponsored by Brown
and a teacher’s union, will ask voters to temporarily raise the
 state sales tax , already the highest in the U.S., to 7.5 percent
from 7.25 percent and to boost taxes on income starting at
$250,000. The rate for those making $1 million or more a year,
now 10.3 percent, would rise to 13.3 percent.  If voters reject the tax increase, it will trigger $6.1
billion of cuts -- $5.5 billion coming from schools, enough to
pay for three weeks of classes.  A California bond maturing in February 2022 traded June 28
at an average yield of almost 2.7 percent, or about 0.73
percentage point more than an  index  of top-rated muni debt with
a similar maturity, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
securities were issued in March at a yield of 2.78 percent, or
0.88 percentage point above the benchmark.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in  Sacramento  at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  