-- California Lawmakers Vote to Scrap Ballot on Water Bond
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2012-07-05T22:23:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/california-senate-delays-11-billion-water-bond-measure.html
California  lawmakers passed a bill
removing an $11 billion water-bond proposition from the November
ballot on concern that too many high-cost measures might
jeopardize Governor  Jerry Brown ’s proposed tax increase.  The measure, which passed the Senate 34-2 and the Assembly
69-6, would delay the water bonds until 2014. The bill advances
to Brown, a Democrat, for his signature. It would be the second
time the measure has been pushed back since it was first
approved by his predecessor, Republican Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger, and lawmakers in 2009.  “It is critically important that we focus on the revenue
measure,” said Assemblywoman Joan Buchanan, a Democrat from  San
Ramon , referring to Brown’s ballot initiative.  Brown and a teachers’ union collected signatures asking
voters in November to temporarily raise the state sales tax and
income taxes on the wealthy to erase a $15.7 billion deficit and
eliminate a recurring shortfall that has plagued the most
populous U.S. state for the last decade. The revenue already is
calculated into the fiscal 2013 budget. If voters say no, it
would trigger a $5.5 billion cut from schools, the equivalent to
three weeks off the academic year.  The water-bond delay would be the second time in as many
weeks that Democrats who control the Legislature approved a bill
aimed at giving Brown’s initiative an upper hand at the polls.
Even with the bond measure dropped, voters will still face 11
ballot questions.  Adding Language  Lawmakers inserted language into one of the  budget  bills
they passed June 27 that requires bond measures and
constitutional amendments to get top billing on statewide ballot
pamphlets. That pushed Brown’s tax proposal to the top of the
pamphlet from ninth.  While the language has nothing to do with the budget, they
were able to add it to the spending plan by appropriating $1,000
to the Secretary of State’s office, which handles elections.
Because budgets in California can now be approved by a simple
majority vote, the appropriation also let Democrats make the
change without the two-thirds vote needed to amend election
rules.  Proponents of another income tax-increase initiative on the
ballot, championed by  Molly Munger , the daughter of  Berkshire
Hathaway (BRK/A)  Inc. Vice Chairman Charles Munger, sued to block the
move, calling it “an abuse of the political process and
legislative power.” The change would leave her measure in the
ninth slot on the ballot pamphlet because hers doesn’t amend the
constitution.  A Sacramento County superior court June 29 temporarily
blocked the state from numbering the initiatives while Munger’s
complaint is reviewed.  The bond money would finance an overhaul of the state’s
aging public-water works, which depends on aqueducts, reservoirs
and pipelines, some almost 100 years old. The improvements are
needed for drinking water and to supply California’s $37.5
billion-a-year  agriculture industry .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  