-- California’s Harris Favors State, Madoff Trustee Says
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-07-05T19:15:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/california-s-harris-favors-state-madoff-trustee-says.html
California Attorney General  Kamala Harris  would wind up helping her home state or “a select
group” of investors if she is allowed to recoup illegal profits
from the Bernard Madoff  Ponzi scheme , the liquidator of the con
man’s brokerage said.  Trustee Irving Picard is trying to stop Harris’s suit,
saying she is breaking the law by suing former investment
adviser  Stanley Chais ’s estate to recoup $270 million in illegal
profits. Harris, like  New York  Attorney General Eric Schneiderman in asserting a right to pursue local wrongdoing,
has said her suit is legal because she is exercising her
policing power under state law.  Under bankruptcy law, Harris’s suit might be barred if it
had a monetary goal that conflicted with Picard’s effort to
recoup money for people with claims he had validated. Harris has
said she is using  California ’s consumer protection and
securities laws to impose penalties that will deter other
wrongdoers. Picard contends she has a hidden financial agenda.  “Her action serves no deterrent purpose and seeks to
further private parties’ interests in obtaining a pecuniary
advantage over BLMIS customers with valid claims to the
estate,” he said in a July 3 filing in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in
 Manhattan , referring to Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities
LLC by its initials. It “will inure to the financial benefit of
either the  State of California  or a select group of indirect
investors in BLMIS through feeder funds operated by the Chais
defendants.”  New York last month settled a $410 million lawsuit against
J. Ezra Merkin over claims that Merkin funds secretly placed
client money with Madoff. The agreement will help charities and
other investors who entrusted Madoff with their savings,
Schneiderman said. Massachusetts investors benefited in 2009
when that state’s Commonwealth Secretary  William Galvin  fined
Fairfield Greenwich Advisors LLP $500,000 and made it return
$7.5 million to Massachusetts investors.  Harris, a Democrat, wants to press a 2009 complaint in
state court in  Los Angeles  that alleges Chais passed himself off
as an “investment wizard” and earned $270 million in fees from
1995 to 2008 for “doing nothing more than funneling all of his
investors’ capital into an epic Ponzi scheme” without their
knowledge or authorization. She is seeking to recover illegal
profits and other penalties.  Picard Suit  Picard’s 2009 suit against Chais and related entities
demanded $1 billion allegedly withdrawn fraudulently from the
Ponzi scheme. The  money manager  died in 2010. Picard sued Harris
Jan. 4 in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in Manhattan, alleging her
lawsuit interferes with the collection of assets needed to help
compensate Madoff victims.  The clash between federal and state powers in Picard’s suit
against Harris might eventually go to the U.S. Supreme Court and
make new law, said Michael Clark, a former federal prosecutor
who has handled financial-fraud cases.  Much of the $9 billion that Picard has raised from
settlements has been tied up in court challenges and unavailable
for distribution to customers who lost money.  Madoff, 72, is serving a 150-year prison term after
pleading guilty to orchestrating the fraud that destroyed his
New York-based firm, which collapsed in December 2008. Picard
and his  law firm , Baker & Hostetler LLP, have charged about $273
million for liquidating the estate, while returning $333 million
to customers.  The Harris case is Picard v. Hall, 12-01001, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan). The
main case is Securities Investor Protection Corp. v. Bernard L.
Madoff Investment Securities LLC, 08-ap-1789, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  