-- Canada Dollar Reaches 2-Year High Versus Euro After ECB Rate Cut
-- B y   L i n d s e y   R u p p
-- 2012-07-05T21:09:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/canada-dollar-reaches-2-year-high-versus-euro-after-ecb-rate-cut.html
The Canadian dollar strengthened to a
two-year high against the euro after the  European Central Bank 
cut interest rates to stimulate the bloc’s economies.  The loonie, as the currency is nicknamed, reached a seven-
week high against the greenback, as reports indicated faster-
than-forecast jobs growth in the U.S., the nation’s largest
trading partner. China cut interest rates for the second time in
a month and the  Bank of England  said it would extend its asset-
purchase program.  “There is a commitment from central bankers to protect the
stability of financial markets and maintain loose policy,” said
 Camilla Sutton , head of currency strategy in Toronto at  Bank of
Nova Scotia (BNS) , in a phone interview. “That’s somewhat supportive
of growth, and also important for growth are commodity
currencies like Australia and Canada.”  Canada’s currency gained 1 percent to C$1.2569 per euro at
5 p.m. in Toronto, touching the strongest level since June 2010.
The loonie was little changed against the greenback at C$1.0142
per  U.S. dollar , after reaching the highest level since May 16.
One Canadian dollar buys 98.60 U.S cents.  Implied volatility for one-month options on the Canadian
dollar versus the euro fell to 7.92 percent, down from 9.53
percent June 6. The five-year average is 11.7 percent. Implied
volatility, which traders quote and use to set option prices,
signals the expected pace of currency swings.  Price Swings  Lower volatility is “highly encouraging” that high  risk
aversion  trading in May will likely continue to lessen, Sutton
said, adding that the euro will trade more on “fundamentals as
opposed to fear of what could be.”  Government bonds  rose, with the yield on the nation’s 10-
year benchmark bonds trading at 1.82 percent. The  Bank of Canada 
announced it will sell C$3.4 billion five-year notes on July 11.
The bonds mature Sept. 9, 2017 and carry a coupon of 1.5
percent.  Pacific Investment Management Co.’s Ed Devlin said Canadian
bonds don’t provide much value for investors as low yields limit
scope for  capital gains  and global uncertainty prompts the
world’s largest bond fund manager to take “defensive”
positions.  Devlin, executive vice president and head of the Canadian
portfolio management team at Pimco, said he’s underweight on
Canadian short-term fixed income and has recently preferred
bonds that allow investors to hedge against consumer-price
gains.  Market View  “We’re not particularly long the Canadian market,”
Devlin, a London-based portfolio manager, said in a telephone
interview from Toronto. “I’m pretty defensive on the front end.
There is not a lot to like about interest rates down here.”  The ECB cut its key  interest rate  by 25 basis points to a
record 0.75 percent and reduced its deposit rate to zero for the
first time. The shared currency weakened against 14 of its 16
major peers as ECB President  Mario Draghi  said some risks to
growth have “materialized.” The pound dropped against the
Canadian dollar as the Bank of England extended its asset-
purchase program.  Canada’s central bank has kept its  benchmark rate  unchanged
at 1 percent since September 2010.  Canada’s jobless rate is forecast to stay unchanged from
May at 7.3 percent, according to a Bloomberg survey of
economists before Statistics Canada agency release data
tomorrow. The country is projected to have added 5,000 jobs in
June, compared with a gain of 7,700 the month before.  Jobs Data  Roseland, New Jersey-based ADP Employer Services showed
U.S. companies added 176,000 workers this month. The median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called for a
100,000 advance.  “The employment situation in Canada does look relatively
stronger than the U.S.,” said  Shaun Osborne , chief currency
strategist at  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) ’s TD Securities unit, in an
interview. “It’s still a very slow job recovery situation in
the U.S.”  A U.S. government report this week is projected to show
employers added fewer than 100,000 workers for a third month in
June. U.S. payrolls added 95,000 workers last month after a
69,000 gain in May, a Bloomberg survey showed before the Labor
Department data on July 6.  The loonie has gained 1.9 percent this year among 10
developed-nation currencies in Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Indexes, with the U.S. dollar adding 1.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsey Rupp in  New York  at 
 lrupp2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  