-- Carlyle Buys Controlling Stake in China’s Mandarin Hotel Chain
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-07-05T07:13:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/carlyle-buys-controlling-stake-in-china-s-mandarin-hotel-chain.html
Carlyle Group LP (CG) , the world’s second-
largest private-equity firm, acquired a controlling stake of 49
percent in  China ’s  Mandarin Hotel Holdings Ltd.  to tap the
country’s mid-tier hotel market.  Carlyle Asia Partners III, a buyout fund with $2.6 billion,
will be the largest shareholder of the closely held hotel chain,
it said in a statement today. The Washington-based firm didn’t
give the amount of the investment.  “We see good potential in the mid-tier hotel sector, which
is less volatile, as luxury travelers tend to trend down when
the economy isn’t good,”  Eric Zhang , managing director of the
Carlyle fund, said in a phone interview from  Hong Kong  today.
“We are now one of the first movers in the mid-end hotel sector,
and we are very confident it will be the leader of the sector in
the future.”  International five-star hotel operators, including Marriott
International Inc. and Hilton Worldwide Inc., have been
expanding in China, the world’s third-largest tourism
destination.  Carlyle has spent about $4 billion in more than 60 deals in
China. In 2007 it invested in  New Century , China’s second-
largest hotel group that develops luxury hotels in less affluent
cities, Zhang said.  Zhang said revenue growth of China’s mid-tier hotels is
expected to be in the mid-teens in the next three to five years.  Mandarin, which operates 25 hotels in six Chinese cities,
owns the Crystal Orange Hotel and Orange Hotel brands. It plans
to open its  first hotel (2706)  in  Shanghai  by the end of the year, said
Wu Hai, founder and chief executive officer of Mandarin, in a
phone interview.  “With this kind of fund, we can expand to other cities,
especially those well-developed,” Wu said. The hotel doesn’t
have a plan to go public, according to Wu. Occupancy rates of
Mandarin’s hotels have stayed “far above” the industry average,
he said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  