-- Carstens Says Mexico Inflation to Slow Below 4% This Quarter
-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n   a n d   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2012-07-05T14:09:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/carstens-says-mexican-inflation-to-slow-to-target-this-quarter.html
Mexico ’s central bank Governor
Agustin Carstens predicted  inflation  will slow this quarter to
within policy makers’ targeted range and said 2012 economic
growth probably will fall short of the high end of the bank’s
projection.  Consumer price increases likely will slow to an annual rate
of less than 4 percent this quarter after rains ended a drought
that had caused a spike in agricultural prices, Carstens said in
an interview yesterday. While a bird flu outbreak detected in
western Mexico may cause a “blip” in egg prices, the rise
won’t last, he said. The central bank targets inflation between
2 percent and 4 percent.  “During this quarter it is very likely that inflation will
come back to our range,” Carstens said at his office in Mexico
City’s old colonial center.  Mexico’s peso bond yields fell to a record low today after
European and Chinese policy makers cut benchmark borrowing costs
to spur growth, fueling a rally in higher-yielding assets. The
yield on local-currency bonds due in 2024 dropped nine basis
points, or 0.09 percentage point, to 5.30 percent at 9:08 a.m.
in Mexico City, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The pace of gross domestic product growth in  Latin
America ’s second-largest economy this year “depends mostly on
the  U.S. economy ” and probably will be between 3.5 percent and
4 percent, he said. He later added it appears “less likely”
GDP expansion will reach the 4.25 percent that is the upper
limit of the central bank’s May forecast.  ‘Quite Well’  “Our economy has been performing quite well,” he said.
“In the main areas so far the figures that are being produced
are very good. Growth seemed to continue even in June.”  The peso’s weakness in the second quarter was caused by
global investors’ aversion to riskier, higher-yielding assets
amid concern Europe’s debt crisis would worsen, he said.
Improvement in the U.S. and Europe, combined with Mexican
economic expansion, could push the currency to near 12 per
dollar, a level it held for much of the first half of 2011, he
said.  “I wouldn’t be surprised if certain scenarios present
themselves, we could see exchange rates close to that level,”
he said, specifying it was not an official forecast. “Given
that we have no structural problems in the financial system, you
would think the peso has room to appreciate.”  Mexico’s GDP  After weakening to 14.3755 per dollar on May 31, the peso
has since climbed 7.8 percent, the most among 16 major
currencies, to 13.3337 yesterday.  Europe ’s crisis and slow
growth in the U.S., which buys 80 percent of Mexico’s exports,
helped make the peso Latin America’s worst-performing major
currency last year with an 11.5 percent drop.  Mexico’s economy grew 4.6 percent in the first three months
of 2012 from a year earlier, the  fastest pace  in six quarters,
helping fuel a consumer price increase of 4.3 percent in the 12
months through mid-June. The U.S. economy expanded 1.9 percent
in the first quarter, compared with 3 percent in the prior
period. U.S. unemployment has exceeded 8 percent since February
2009, the longest stretch in monthly records dating to 1948.  Banco de Mexico  has maintained the nation’s benchmark
lending rate at a record low 4.5 percent for  27 straight
meetings . The next policy decision of the five-member board is
July 20.  “We believe that a neutral stance is adequate,” he said,
citing strong domestic growth coupled with international
volatility.  Carstens, 54, said Mexico hasn’t yet made a decision on
whether to seek renewal of its flexible credit line from the
 International Monetary Fund , which expires in January. That
choice will be made with incoming President Enrique Pena Nieto’s
government, he said.  Flexible Credit  In 2009, Mexico was the first nation to receive a flexible
credit line from the IMF, a mechanism to help support economies
deemed to have strong fundamentals. Mexico’s original $47
billion credit line was boosted to $72 billion in January 2011.  The country has never tapped the loan. Colombia and  Poland 
are the only other nations with similar IMF agreements.  Carstens, a former finance minister and IMF deputy managing
director who sought the fund’s top job in 2011, said it’s
important that the multilateral lender continue to offer
flexible credit lines even as it concentrates on bolstering the
European economy. Europe’s crisis shouldn’t hinder the IMF’s
ability to offer the lines, he said.  Christine Lagarde  prevailed over Carstens to become IMF
managing director last year.  The IMF, based in  Washington , should strive for crisis
prevention in addition to crisis resolution “and also to give
clear incentives to good performers,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Martin in Mexico City at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net ;
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  