-- Cenovus Taps World Price With ‘Bordeaux’ of Canadian Oils
-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n
-- 2012-07-05T15:37:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/cenovus-taps-world-price-with-bordeaux-of-canadian-crude-oils.html
Cenovus Energy Inc. (CVE)  says it’s selling
Canadian oil sands crude near world prices by exporting through
Vancouver’s port as Canada’s fourth-largest oil producer by
market value lines up buyers ahead of a surge in production.  The company is selling “small” volumes of Western Canada
Select blend to buyers in markets such as Asia and  California  to
help them understand how to refine it, said Paul Reimer, senior
vice president of marketing, transportation and power, in an
interview yesterday at the company’s Calgary headquarters.  “WCS is our Bordeaux blend,” said Reimer in a reference
to the French blended wine. “People like our crude and are
prepared to pay international prices for it.”  Prices for the Canadian crude sold through  Vancouver  are
closer to those paid for oil from Dubai and for Brent, the
benchmark used in  Europe , and at a premium to West Texas
Intermediate, he said, without providing specific figures. WCS
has been selling at a steep discount to WTI in the U.S. market.  Cenovus plans to expand production at its oil sands
operations in northern  Alberta  to 400,000 barrels a day by 2021
from 82,000 in the first quarter. The company is counting on
proposed new pipelines, including Enbridge Inc.’s Northern
Gateway to Canada’s Pacific coast and TransCanada Corp.’s
Keystone XL route to the U.S.  Gulf Coast , to help it attract new
buyers and higher prices, Reimer said.  Western Canada Select traded at $57.27 a barrel, a discount
of $30 a barrel to West Texas Intermediate, the U.S. benchmark,
at 9:06 a.m. today. WTI fell 0.2 percent to $87.48 at 11:26 a.m.
on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , while Brent rose 1.3
percent to $101.09 in  London .  Vancouver Shipments  The company is currently shipping about 11,000 barrels a
day to Vancouver on Kinder Morgan Inc.’s Trans-Mountain pipeline.
The oil is then sold at the port to international shippers,
Reimer said.  Cenovus is also shipping almost 5,000 barrels a day of oil
by rail to move oil to the Gulf Coast where the company also
captures higher prices, Reimer said. The company is also
shipping unspecified amounts of oil to the East coast, Reimer
said without providing details.  “Our market development is all about trying to sell to
different counterparties so that we understand what the
different markets are going to do for us,” he said. “In time,
when there’s full volume, we’ll sell to anybody at the highest
price.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  