-- Central Bankers Have ‘Ammunition,’ UBS’s Harris Says: Tom Keene
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-07-05T15:35:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/central-bankers-have-ammunition-ubs-s-harris-says-tom-keene.html
Central banks still have “some
ammunition” as they seek to boost economic expansion, according
to  Maury Harris  of UBS AG.  Policy makers around the world are cutting interest rates
and increasing bond buying. The  European Central Bank  and
People’s Bank of  China  cut their benchmark borrowing costs
today, while the  Bank of England  raised the size of its asset-
purchase program. They acted two weeks after the  Federal Reserve 
expanded a program lengthening the maturity of bonds it holds.  “We hope that we’re seeing something that’s effectively
coordinated,” Harris, chief economist at UBS Securities in  New
York , said in a radio interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance”
with Tom Keene, Ken Prewitt and Sara Eisen. “People see
problems and forget that the central bank still has some
ammunition left.”  UBS forecasts China’s gross domestic product will grow 7
percent this year, Harris said. That compares with 8.2 percent
in the median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg,
after the nation’s GDP expanded 9.2 percent in 2011.  China cut benchmark  interest rates  for the second time in a
month and allowed banks to offer bigger discounts on their
borrowing costs, stepping up efforts to reverse a slowdown in
the world’s second-biggest economy.  “The advantage you have in China is that there’s more
leverage over the banking system,” Harris said. “There is an
impact on the real economy from these policy moves that stems
importantly from what it does for business confidence.”  ECB, BOE  The ECB cut its  benchmark rate  by a quarter-percentage
point and said it will no longer pay anything on overnight
deposits. The BOE raised its asset-purchase target by 50 billion
pounds ($78 billion) to 375 billion pounds.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  signaled last month U.S.
policy makers may add stimulus if the economy fails to make
sufficient progress in creating jobs. The Labor Department will
report tomorrow that U.S. payrolls expanded by 93,000 positions
in June, the third straight month below 100,000, and the jobless
rate stayed at 8.2 percent, according to Bloomberg surveys.  UBS forecasts that employers added 85,000 to their payrolls
last month.  “It’s probably a level of job formation where the
 unemployment rate  stabilizes, but we need to do better than that
to bring it down,” Harris said. “Given the number of job
openings we have in this country, we probably should have lower
unemployment if the labor market were working better.”  Harris estimated the U.S.  unemployment  rate will decline to
7.8 percent by the end of the year and to 7.3 percent at the end
of 2013. The median forecast of economists in a Bloomberg survey
estimates the rate will fall to 8.1 percent in 2012 and to 7.8
percent next year.  “What I would be watching over the summer is what happens
to the public-confidence gauges,” Harris said. “That’s the
intangible that’s very important with policy right now.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  