-- Central Banks Deliver 45-Minute Salvo as Growth Weakens
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2012-07-05T15:15:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/central-banks-deliver-45-minute-salvo-as-growth-weakens.html
Global central banks went on the
offensive against the faltering world economy, cutting interest
rates and increasing bond buying as a round of international
stimulus gathers pace.  In a 45-minute span, the  European Central Bank  and People’s
Bank of  China  cut their benchmark borrowing costs, while the
 Bank of England  raised the size of its  asset-purchase program .
Two weeks ago, the  Federal Reserve  expanded a program
lengthening the maturity of bonds it holds and Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  indicated more measures will be taken if needed.  “The actions had the look and feel of a coordinated global
easing campaign,” said  Nick Kounis , head of macro research at
ABN Amro Bank NV in Amsterdam. “The central banks are trying to
arrest the synchronized slowdown in global economic growth that
has taken shape.”  Almost five years since the financial crisis first forced
them into action, policy makers are reacting anew as Europe’s
debt crisis persists, U.S. hiring slows and  emerging markets 
soften. The jury is out on whether the additional monetary
medicine will work or if even more will be needed.  The steps by the U.K. and euro area pushed  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM) ’s average  interest rate  for developed economies to a crisis-
era low of 0.48 percent and will add to the balance sheets of
major central banks, which have already swelled 40 percent since
mid-2007.  “Some policy makers may be at the limits of their
influence,”  UBS AG (UBSN)  economist  Paul Donovan  wrote in a research
report today.  First Push  The Bank of England began today’s stimulus push, announcing
it would restart buying bonds two months after stopping.
Governor  Mervyn King  and colleagues raised their asset-purchase
target by 50 billion pounds ($78 billion) to 375 billion pounds,
meeting the forecast of most economists, in a bid to pull its
economy from recession. They said output will likely remain
sluggish after contracting in the past two quarters.  Within a minute of that decision, the People’s Bank of
China cut its key interest rate for the second time in a month
and allowed banks to offer bigger discounts on their own lending
costs. The one-year lending rate will fall by 31 basis points to
6 percent and the one-year deposit rate will drop by 25 basis
points to 3 percent effective tomorrow. Banks can offer loans of
as much as 30 percent less than benchmark rates.  Chinese Data  The world’s largest emerging market is acting more
aggressively to spur growth that may have decelerated for a
sixth quarter. Officials responded after two manufacturing
indexes fell in June and ahead of a report on second-quarter
gross domestic product, due on July 13.  “Policy makers have had an early look at the June data and
didn’t like what they saw, suggesting the economy is weaker than
they previously thought,” said  Mark Williams , Asia economist at
Capital Economics Ltd. in  London .  At 1:45 p.m. in Frankfurt, the ECB then cut its  main rate 
by 25 basis points to a record low of 0.75 percent and said it
will no longer pay anything on overnight deposits as sovereign
debt turmoil threatens to drive the 17-nation euro economy into
recession. Both actions were anticipated by economists.  While ECB President  Mario Draghi  again questioned the
economic impact of lower interest rates, they could make it
easier for banks to borrow and lend as well as build on the
confidence boost euro-area governments delivered last week when
they moved toward a deeper economic union. He said today that
the central bank is not “running low on policy options,”
without elaborating on what else it may do.  Kenya’s Cut  Elsewhere, Kenya’s central bank cut its benchmark lending
rate for the first time in 18 months and Denmark’s lowered its
main borrowing costs to record lows.  U.S. and European stocks retreated as optimism over U.S.
jobless claims data fizzled after Draghi said economic risks
remain. The  S&P 500  declined 0.8 percent as of 10:07 a.m. in New
York, while the Stoxx Europe 600 Index fell 0.7 percent.
Treasuries rose, with the 10-year yield falling 4 basis points
to 1.587 percent.  Draghi told reporters that risks to the outlook remain “on
the downside” and that heightened uncertainty is hurting
confidence. Asked if there was any coordination with other
central banks before today’s announcements, he said there
“wasn’t any communication beyond the normal exchange of
views.”  Operation Twist  Today’s shifts come after the Fed expanded its Operation
Twist program on June 20 to lower longer-term interest rates in
financial markets. Data tomorrow is forecast to confirm the
weakest quarter for U.S. employment in more than two years,
evidence the world’s biggest economy has lost momentum.  The central banks of Australia, the Czech Republic,
 Kazakhstan , Vietnam and Israel also cut rates in June, while the
 Swiss National Bank  is buying euros to defend its franc ceiling.  Bank of Japan  officials meet next week to review their
forecasts with Governor Masaaki Shirakawa today pledging to
pursue appropriate policy as the bank promotes powerful easing.  Forcing central bankers’ hands is the weakest patch of
global growth since the end of the 2009 recession, which has
been mainly caused by Europe’s debt woes. All but three of the
26 economies monitored by JPMorgan will see inflation
undershooting their central banks’ targets by the end of the
year, according to New York-based economist Joseph Lupton.  Policy Coordination  Monetary policy makers have been at the forefront of
efforts to insulate economies from the crises that began to rage
in August 2007. They have sometimes acted together, most
famously in October 2008 when they cut interest rates in unison.
Last year they intervened to check a soaring yen and six of them
made it cheaper for banks to borrow dollars in emergencies.  It remains to be seen whether the additional measures can
bolster growth. UBS’s Donovan said the crisis has damaged so-
called monetary transmission mechanisms such as the ability of
banks to pass on easier central bank policy.  The ECB cut will have little impact on its economy and
officials may have to consider quantitative easing if growth
fails to improve in the second half of the year, said  Julian Callow , chief international economist at  Barclays Plc. (BARC)   Joy Yang, chief economist for greater China research at
Mirae Asset Securities (HK) Ltd., said lower interest rates
won’t support Chinese demand much and investors would prefer to
see fiscal stimulus and economic reforms.  As for the Bank of England, Tom Vosa, director of economic
research at National Australia Bank, said the U.K. economy is so
stressed that 90 percent of the money the central bank is
injecting could end up in risk-free assets or reserves.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  