-- Champ to Succeed Rominger as SEC Investment Management Chief
-- B y   G r e g o r y   M o t t
-- 2012-07-05T21:27:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/champ-will-succeed-rominger-as-sec-investment-management-chief.html
Norm Champ, a former general counsel
to hedge-fund manager Chilton Investment Co., has been appointed
director of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission’s
Investment Management unit, the agency said today.  Champ, who joined the SEC in 2010 as associate regional
director for examinations in its  New York  office, will succeed
former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  executive Eileen Rominger, who
is retiring, the agency said in an e-mail statement. Champ will
assume his new duties on July 9, the SEC said.  “Norm has proven himself to be a natural leader and an
expert at managing programs that bolster our financial markets
and protect investors,” SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  said in the
agency’s statement. “His breadth of experience and deep insight
into so many aspects of the securities industry will well serve
investors and the agency.”  The office Champ will lead is responsible for promoting
capital formation through oversight and regulation of the multi-
trillion dollar investment management industry, the SEC said in
its  statement . Rominger stepped down after less than two years
on the job amid divisions among commissioners over whether
tougher rules are needed for money-market funds.  “Capable and effective leadership of the division is of
critical importance to mutual funds and their 90 million
shareholders,” Paul Schott Stevens, president of the  Investment
Company Institute , said in a statement. “Mr. Champ’s knowledge
of our industry, developed through his rich professional
experience, including his regulatory experience overseeing
 investment company  and investment adviser examinations, make him
extraordinarily well-equipped to serve the commission in this
vital role.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Mott in Washington at 
 gmott1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  