-- Chilean Traders’ June Price Drop Call Conflicts With Economists
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2012-07-05T20:39:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/chilean-traders-june-price-drop-call-conflicts-with-economists.html
Traders in  Chile ’s forwards market
are betting economists are  wrong  in forecasting that consumer
prices rose in the Andean nation last month.  Trading in  forwards  for unidades de fomento, the country’s
inflation-linked accounting unit, indicated there was a 0.13
percent price decline in June, while the median forecast of 13
economists in a Bloomberg survey is that prices rose 0.1 percent
last month. The National Statistics Institute will publish the
data at 8 a.m. tomorrow in Santiago.  “This often happens in the days before the data are
announced,” said Felipe Alarcon, an economist at Banco de
Credito e Inversiones. “The fundamentals don’t justify such a
selloff.”  BCI forecasts that prices fell 0.1 percent last month,
matching the projections of Banchile Inversiones and Celfin
Capital. The other forecasts in Bloomberg’s survey are that
prices were unchanged or rose.  Chile’s peso advanced after the central bank reported that
economic activity increased 5.3 percent in May from a year
earlier. The median forecast of 14 analysts in a Bloomberg
survey was for an increase of 4.5 percent. The currency
appreciated 0.3 percent to 495.55 per  U.S. dollar .  “Chilean economic activity was surprisingly high,” said
Alejandro Araya, a trader at Banco Santander Chile in Santiago.
“It’s slightly surprising that the dollar hasn’t fallen
further, but the market seems to be on standby.”  International investors in the Chilean peso forwards market
had a $9.7 billion bet against the currency on July 3, little
changed from June 29, according to data published today by the
central bank. Local investors, led by pension funds and
excluding banks and brokers, had a $17.5 billion long peso
position, the highest since June 5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  