-- Chile Economic Surge in May Reduces Chances of Key Rate Cut
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 2012-07-05T17:25:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/chile-economic-surge-in-may-reduces-chances-of-key-rate-cut-2-.html
Chile ’s economy expanded 5.3 percent
in May from the year earlier, beating economist estimates and
reducing the likelihood that policy makers will cut interest
rates to stimulate growth in the Andean nation.  The median estimate of 14 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
was for the economy to climb 4.5 percent over the period. The
economy, as measured by the Imacec index that is a proxy for
gross domestic product, increased 0.4 percent in May from April
on a seasonally-adjusted basis on gains in retail, services and
manufacturing, the central bank said in a report today.  Growth has exceeded economist forecasts from Bloomberg
surveys in two of the past three months as retail sales climb at
more than twice the speed of manufacturing. The persistence of
Chile’s internal demand at a time when  Europe ’s debt crisis
threatens the world economy increases the odds policy makers
will refrain from changing rates, economist Matias  Madrid  said.  “This complicates the outlook for cuts because internal
demand remains strong and we have a current account deficit,
meaning we can’t stimulate demand further,” Banco Penta’s
Madrid said by telephone from Santiago. “The base scenario is
they’ll maintain rates, and it’s much more likely they’d cut
rates than raise them -- which is very, very unlikely.”  Policy makers have kept their  benchmark lending rate  at 5
percent since February following a surprise quarter-point
reduction in January.  Analysts vs Traders  Traders and economists surveyed by the central bank
disagree on the next move in  interest rates . Economists in a
June 11 poll estimate policy makers will raise rates within 17
months while traders and investors in a June 26 survey forecast
a quarter-point cut by October 2012.  One-year interest rate swaps, which reflect traders’ views
of average borrowing costs, fell 2 basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 4.72 percent at 12:03 p.m. local time.  Chile’s economic growth rate will moderate in the second
and third quarters this year before expanding in the fourth on a
possible recovery abroad and increased mining output at home,
Madrid said. Chile is the world’s top producer of copper, whose
price has increased 0.9 percent since the end of last year to
$3.491 a pound at 11:52 a.m.  Chile’s economic growth will ease to 4.3 percent for all of
2012 after expanding 5.6 percent in the first quarter, while
still exceeding the expansion in  Latin America  of 3.7 percent,
according to forecasts made by the Washington-based
 International Monetary Fund  in April.  Regional Peers  “ Brazil  practically has stopped growing and  Argentina  is
slowing very strongly, so it’s positive that our country has a
healthy economy that is able to resist,” President Sebastian Pinera, a Harvard University-trained economist, said in images
transmitted live on state-owned television channel TVN today.
“But nobody is bullet-proof.”  GDP in  South America ’s two largest economies, Brazil and
Argentina, expanded 0.8 percent and 5.2 percent in the first
quarter from last year respectively. The IMF forecasts Brazil’s
economy will expand 3 percent this year and Argentina 4.2
percent.  Manufacturing in South America’s fifth-largest economy
expanded 2.8 percent in May from the previous year, compared
with the median economist estimate of 1.8 percent, while retail
sales grew 5.6 percent, the National Statistics Institute said
in a report published on June 29. Chile posted a current account
deficit of $346 million in the first quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  