-- China Beige Book Shows Pickup Unseen in Official Data
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-07-05T07:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/china-beige-book-shows-pickup-unseen-in-official-data.html
China ’s official  statistics  may be
lagging behind independent data that show a pickup in the
world’s second-biggest economy last quarter, according to a new
private survey modeled on the U.S. Federal Reserve’s Beige Book.  The China Beige Book, through interviews of about 2,000
company executives and bankers, found  retail sales  and
manufacturing strengthened while property sales increased and
shortages of unskilled labor failed to abate. CBB International
LLC, the New York-based researcher that conducted the survey,
provided a summary to Bloomberg News via e-mail yesterday.  The report said four of every five retailers see higher
sales in six months, a bigger proportion than in the first
quarter, contrasting with government data showing the weakest
non-holiday sales  growth  since 2006 in May. Bankers foresee
growing availability of loans and 46 percent of companies intend
to borrow, “suggesting a fairly stable rise in credit demand.”  “These findings diverge considerably from the current
‘gloom and doom’ narratives,” CBB President Leland R. Miller
and Craig Charney, director of research and polling, said in a
statement to Bloomberg. The official statistics probably lag
CBB’s data by one to three months and may reflect a pickup by
“mid- to late summer,” they said.  The survey suggests China’s measures to reverse the deepest
slowdown since 2008 may be boosting growth even as  Europe ’s
sovereign debt crisis crimps  exports . Authorities lowered
 interest rates  last month for the first time in more than three
years and have cut  reserve requirements  for banks three times
since November while speeding approvals for investment projects.  At BNP Paribas SA in Beijing, economistKen Peng said that
while it’s helpful to have competing views of the Chinese
economy, he can’t judge the value of the research because he
hasn’t read it and doesn’t know its methodology.  Growth Evident  “The economy as a whole is now strengthening modestly”
and credit is “fairly loose,” Miller said in an e-mailed
response to questions. “Quarter-on-quarter growth was
particularly evident by June in  consumer spending  and real
estate, while agriculture and mining also showed improvement.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of stocks fell 0.4 percent as
of 1:18 p.m. in  Tokyo . Separately today, China’s proposed rules
for banks will continue limiting loans to 75 percent of deposits
and include new requirements that may constrain credit growth, a
senior official at the banking regulator said.  CBB said its findings are based on interviews with 1,783
company managers, face-to-face interviews with 138 senior
corporate executives and telephone interviews with 160  bank loan 
officers and branch managers. The survey was conducted from May
14 to June 8.  Fed’s Methodology  The survey uses methodology adapted from the Fed’s Beige
Book survey, according to CBB. The central bank is not involved
in the China survey, CBB said. The U.S. Beige Book is published
eight times a year, or two weeks before each meeting of Fed
policy makers, giving anecdotal data to inform interest-rate
decisions.  CBB provided Bloomberg with a full copy of the inaugural
first-quarter report running 58 pages. It contains chapters on
each region with anecdotes from companies it didn’t identify.  Examples included a toilet maker countering labor shortages
by moving to northern  Guangdong province  and hiring local
workers at higher wages instead of migrants from inland
provinces. The president of a food-store chain said banks were
very strict in examining and verifying loans, according to the
report.  The China Beige Book’s second quarterly survey showed
property agents reporting higher second-quarter revenue doubled
to almost 60 percent, manufacturers recording rising sales
increased 3 percentage points to 63 percent and retailers with
increased sales climbed 5 percentage points to 68 percent.  Higher Revenue  Retailers expect spending to strengthen further and 71
percent of manufacturers foresee higher revenue in six months,
the survey said, indicating a reduced need for further stimulus
measures.  Higher spending may help vendors including  Chow Tai Fook
Jewellery Group Ltd. (1929)  of  Hong Kong , which said June 27 that
profit jumped 79 percent last fiscal year.  The data contrast with another private survey watched by
investors, the manufacturing  purchasing managers’ index  released
monthly by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics. That gauge
fell in June to the lowest level since November, showing a
contraction for an eighth straight month. The survey covers
executives at more than 400 companies.  Some parts of the economy may have slowed further in June,
based on preliminary results of analyst surveys by Bloomberg
News. Growth in exports may have fallen to 10.5 percent in June
from a year earlier compared with 15.3 percent in May, while
expansion in retail sales weakened by 0.3 percentage point to
13.5 percent, according to median estimates.  Loan Estimate  New  yuan   loans  probably climbed to 900 billion yuan ($142
billion) in June from 793 billion yuan in May, according to
Bloomberg’s analyst survey.  The key drivers of an “upswing” in the real estate market
were increasing sales volumes that were reported by 54 percent
of residential property agents and 57 percent of commercial
property agents, the China Beige Book said.  China’s new  home prices  in June increased for the first
time in 10 months, according to a survey of 100 cities by  SouFun
Holdings Ltd. (SFUN) , the nation’s biggest real estate website owner.  Not all the data in the China Beige Book showed a pickup.
Manufacturers that principally export are “hurting,” with 28
percent reporting sales declines, double that for firms that
also rely on domestic markets, the report said. More than a
fifth of residential property developers and 18 percent of
commercial developers had declining revenue in the quarter.  Shipping Expectations  Shipping companies’ expectations also deteriorated with
the proportion expecting higher revenue in six months falling 15
percentage points to 52 percent and those anticipating drops
tripling to 21 percent, the survey found.  Elsewhere in the Asia-Pacific region today,  Malaysia ’s
central bank is forecast to leave its benchmark interest rate
unchanged at 3 percent, where it’s been for more than a year.
Taiwan’s consumer prices rose 1.77 percent in June from a year
earlier, the fourth straight acceleration.  The  European Central Bank  meets in  Frankfurt , where
analysts anticipate officials will lower the benchmark interest
rate to a record low of 0.75 percent. The U.S. may say
applications for jobless benefits declined to a four-week low of
385,000 in the period ended June 30.  The China Beige Book divides China’s 31 provinces,
municipalities and autonomous regions into eight geographic
areas and covers industries including manufacturing, retail,
service, transportation, property, farming and mining.  Gathering Data  The project’s backers say they are first to gather this
much independent data across China’s regions and industries to
provide a regular snapshot of the economy akin to the Fed’s in
the U.S. The company is charging a “premium” price for the
quarterly reports that Miller declined to specify.  “The Chinese economy has become too complex to simply
accept the old standby data sources,” Miller, 35, said in an
interview.  CBB was formed by people from New York-based Charney
Research and consultant Avascent International of  Washington .
Craig Charney, president of Charney Research, has conducted
polls in more than 35 countries including India and  Indonesia 
and worked for political figures such as U.S. President  Bill
Clinton , according to a biography from CBB.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Hamlin in Beijing at 
 khamlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  