-- China Cuts Benchmark Rates for Second Time in Month
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-07-05T15:05:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/china-cuts-benchmark-rates-for-second-time-in-month.html
China  cut benchmark interest rates
for the second time in a month and allowed banks to offer bigger
discounts on their borrowing costs, stepping up efforts to
reverse a slowdown in the world’s second-biggest economy.  The one-year lending rate will fall by 31 basis points and
the one-year deposit rate will drop by 25 basis points effective
tomorrow, the People’s Bank of China said on its website today.
The discount banks can offer on loans was widened to 30 percent
from 20 percent, according to the statement.  China is moving more aggressively to promote  growth  as
 Europe ’s turmoil crimps  exports  and domestic property
restrictions curb the housing market. Today’s cuts coincided
with decisions by the  European Central Bank  and  Bank of England 
to increase monetary stimulus and preceded government data next
week that may show expansion decelerated for a sixth quarter.  “Although most people were expecting further cuts, very
few were expecting the second one to come so soon,” said  Mark Williams , Asia economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in  London .
One possible reason for today’s action is that “policy makers
have had an early look at the June data and didn’t like what
they saw, suggesting the economy is weaker than they previously
thought.”  Asset Purchases  China announced the  interest-rate  move at the same time as
the BOE raised its asset-purchase target by 50 billion pounds
($78 billion) to 375 billion pounds, restarting its expansion of
stimulus. Forty-five minutes later, the ECB cut its benchmark
interest rate by a quarter percentage point to 0.75 percent and
lowered its deposit rate to zero from 0.25 percent.  Oil and copper rose following China’s action, then
retreated after the ECB disappointed investors anticipating a
more aggressive effort to fight the debt crisis.  Another potential reason for China’s move is that
government officials wanted to “get more bang for their buck by
coordinating their action with the ECB,” Williams said.  Citigroup Inc. economists forecast the central bank will
cut interest rates one more time by the end of the year and make
two more reductions to banks’ reserve requirements. China has
yet to build on three reductions in the reserve ratio that began
in November.  The PBOC signaled the government isn’t relaxing
restrictions on the  property market . “All financial
institutions must continue to strictly implement a
differentiated housing credit policy to continue curbing
property buying for speculation and investment purposes,” the
central bank said in its interest-rate statement.  Lending Rate  The benchmark one-year lending rate will be 6 percent and
deposit rate 3 percent after today’s cuts. The central bank
reduced longer-term deposit rates by as much as 40 basis points,
while other lending maturities were lowered by 25 basis points,
according to economists including Bank of America Corp.’s Lu Ting. The floor on lending was widened to 20 percent from 10
percent when interest rates were cut in June.  Officials in China moved after two June manufacturing
indexes fell and before a report on second-quarter gross
domestic product, due to be released on July 13. The government
will say July 9 that consumer prices rose 2.3 percent in June
from a year earlier, a 29-month low, according to the median
forecast of economists in a Bloomberg News survey. It would be
the fifth straight month below the 2012 target of 4 percent set
by Premier  Wen Jiabao  in March.  The PBOC cut both benchmark lending and deposit rates by
0.25 percentage point on June 7, the first reduction since 2008.
Authorities also allowed banks to offer higher rates on deposits.
The central bank said on June 29 it will keep fine-tuning policy
even as economic growth was within a “targeted zone.”  Slower Expansion  The economy expanded 8.1 percent in the first quarter of
2012 from a year earlier, the least in almost three years. Bank
of America estimated growth slid to around 7.5 percent in the
second quarter while Credit Agricole CIB projected a drop to as
low as 7 percent.  The government reduced its official target this year for
economic growth to 7.5 percent from 8 percent.  The ruling Communist Party is preparing for a once-a-decade
leadership transition later this year, which probably puts more
pressure on officials to prevent growth from slowing too much,
said Nathan Sheets, former head of the U.S. Federal Reserve’s
international-finance division.  “In a year of leadership transition, I think it’s just
absolutely unacceptable to them to see a significant slowing,”
Sheets, now Citigroup’s global head of international economics
in  New York , said in a Bloomberg Television interview.  Nike Effects  Companies from  Nike Inc. (NKE)  to McDonald’s Corp. and
Caterpillar Inc. are feeling the effects of a Chinese slowdown.
Nike has said it has too much inventory in the nation.  Anhui Conch Cement Co., China’s biggest maker of the
construction material, said last month that first-half profit
may fall by more than 50 percent, and  Procter & Gamble Co ., the
world’s biggest consumer goods company, has reported a slowdown
in the Asian nation.  Credit Suisse Group AG has reduced its estimate for China’s
economic expansion this year to 7.7 percent, which would be the
slowest pace in 13 years, on weakness in exports, investment and
corporate profits. Deutsche Bank AG lowered its forecast to 7.9
percent. The predictions compare with 9.2 percent growth last
year.  In efforts to support the economy, the National Development
and Reform Commission is speeding approvals for investment
projects, the Ministry of Commerce announced incentives for
purchases of energy-efficient household appliances and the
banking regulator delayed tightening lenders’  capital
requirements .  Narrower Margin  Today’s decision will narrow banks’ interest-rate margin.
Institutions that offer the maximum discount on borrowing costs
and the ceiling on deposits would have a margin of 0.9
percentage point, down from 1.47 points before the decision.  “In the short-term, it’s negative to bank stocks,” said
Liu Li-Gang, Hong Kong-based head of Greater China economics at
Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. “To enterprises,
it’s very positive. But my concern is whether banks are willing
to offer the 30 percent discount to enterprises as their margins
already begin to narrow. If the big banks aren’t willing to do
so, small ones won’t do that, either.”  Industrial & Commercial  Bank of China  Ltd. and China
Construction Bank Corp. posted the slowest earnings growth in
more than two years in the first quarter. Bank of China Ltd.
said profit growth decelerated to 10 percent, compared with 28
percent in the year-earlier period.  Share Decline  ICBC’s A-shares have dropped 5.7 percent since the June 7
rate cut and Bank of China has declined 6.3 percent compared
with a 4 percent fall in the benchmark  Shanghai  Composite Index.  Even with the narrower margin, lower borrowing costs may
stimulate demand, which would help the economy, said  Qu Hongbin ,
chief China economist at HSBC Holdings Plc in  Hong Kong .  “The quick succession of rate cuts points to rising
concerns that the government’s growth target of 7.5 percent for
the year may be at risk,” said Ramin Toloui, Pacific Investment
Management Co.’s co-head of  emerging markets  portfolio
management in  Singapore .  “While these actions provide a cushion, do not count on a
robust bounce,” because the economy and financial industry are
“still digesting the large investments made in recent years,”
Toloui said.  --Zhou Xin. With assistance from Kevin Hamlin and Zheng Lifei in
Beijing,  Helen Sun  in Shanghai and Scarlet Fu in New York.
Editors: Scott Lanman, Nerys Avery  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhou Xin in Beijing at   xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at   ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  