-- China’s Stocks Decline Most in Week on Property, Bank Concerns
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2012-07-05T10:10:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/china-s-stock-futures-fall-on-europe-economic-slowdown-concerns.html
China’s stocks  fell, dragging the
benchmark index down by the most in a week, on concern proposed
rules for banks may curb credit growth and speculation
intensified the government won’t loosen property restrictions.  China Citic Bank Corp. led declines for lenders after a
China Banking Regulatory Commission official said the nation
plans to retain a cap on loans at 75 percent of deposits and may
add further requirements that constrain credit growth under
draft rules. Sany Heavy Industry Co. extended the biggest
machinery maker’s losses to a fourth day amid concern demand may
falter. China’s recent increase in  home prices  was the result of
a “misinterpretation” of the nation’s economic policies, a
government think tank researcher said.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  fell 26 points, or 1.2
percent, to 2,201.35 at the close, the biggest drop since June
25. The  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  slid 1.4 percent to 2,430.37. U.S.
financial markets were closed yesterday for a national holiday.  “Investors are concerned about company earnings in the
second quarter and there are expectations of further cuts in
profit forecasts,” said Chen Liqiu, a strategist at Jianghai
Securities Co. in  Shanghai . “They are expecting property curbs
to ease and it turns out it may be quite the opposite so this is
dragging on sentiment.”  The Shanghai gauge has fallen 1.1 percent this month,
adding to a June plunge of 6.2 percent, on concern the
government isn’t doing enough to stem an economic slowdown. The
gauge, which has advanced 0.1 percent this year,  trades  at 9.6
times estimated profit, compared with the average of 17.5 since
Bloomberg began compiling the data in 2006.  Property Outlook  China’s proposed rules for banks will include an existing
75 percent cap on deposits that can be used for lending as well
as new requirements that may constrain credit growth, a senior
official at the banking regulator said, asking not to be named
because the discussions aren’t public.  China Citic Bank declined 0.5 percent to 4.02  yuan , while
Industrial Bank Ltd. slid 1 percent to 13.01 yuan. A gauge of
financial stocks in the CSI 300 that includes banks and property
companies has climbed 8.7 percent this year, the second most
among 10 industry groups, on speculation the government would
loosen lending controls and reverse property curbs as  Europe ’s
debt crisis deepens the economic slowdown.  Of the 24 property companies in Shanghai’s property gauge,
18 fell today even as the measure rose 0.1 percent. China Vanke
Co., the largest developer, jumped 3.5 percent to 9.29 yuan
after it reported increased sales in June. China’s new home
prices rose for the first time in 10 months as the government
eased its monetary policies to bolster the economy, SouFun
Holdings Ltd., the nation’s biggest real estate website owner,
said this week.  Sany Heavy Drops  “The current rise in  house prices  has to a large extent
been a result of misinterpretation of the government’s policies
to stimulate the economy, an increase in real estate speculation
and excessive concerns among ordinary homebuyers that prices
will continue to rise,”  Yi Xianrong , a researcher with the
Institute of Finance and Banking under the  Chinese Academy of
Social Sciences , wrote in a commentary in the  China Daily  today.  The government shouldn’t relax property controls as the
task of ensuring long-term stable, healthy development of the
real estate market hasn’t been achieved, according to a
commentary in the People’s Daily written by Wang Wei, who wasn’t
identified.  Sany Heavy dropped 1 percent to 12.72 yuan. Company
management told Credit Suisse Group AG it had reduced headcount,
though not by the 30 percent as reported in local media, analyst
Yang Y. Song wrote in a note dated yesterday.  Economic Data  “Sany’s layoffs are a signal that demand is weakening and
the economy is softening,” said Jianghai’s Chen. Employee
turnover hasn’t increased from the usual rate, Sany Heavy’s
board secretary Xiao Youliang said by phone, denying it cut
stuff because of the slowdown. Zoomlion Heavy Industry Science
and Technology Co., the second-largest machinery maker, lost 2.6
percent to 9.24 yuan.  UBS AG said there are downside risks to its economic growth
forecasts for China. June economic data will show second-quarter
growth of below 7 percent quarter-on-quarter and 7.6 percent
year-on-year, the lowest since the first quarter of 2009,  Tao Wang , an economist at UBS, said in report. China’s GDP data is
scheduled to be released on July 13.  With parts of the Chinese economy showing signs of
stabilizing such as the property industry, the government will
not conduct major new policy easing and will instead continue
existing measures such as another cut in reserve-requirement
ratios for banks “soon” and reduction in  interest rates  in the
third quarter, UBS said.  The central bank announced its first cut in rates in three
years on June 7 and lowered reserve-requirement ratios three
times since November.  Jianghai’s Chen said selling before Citic Heavy Industries
Co. starts trading in Shanghai tomorrow, was also hurting the
stock market. The heavy machinery unit of  China ’s largest
conglomerate issued up to 685 million shares at a price of 4.67
yuan each.  “In prepping for the big IPO tomorrow, some investors are
selling today to buy Citic Heavy tomorrow,” Chen said.  -- Editors: Allen Wan, Richard Frost  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  