-- China’s New Rules May Curb Credit Growth, CBRC Official Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-07-05T09:27:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/china-s-draft-rules-may-curb-credit-growth-cbrc-official-says.html
China  plans to retain a cap on loans
at 75 percent of deposits and may add further requirements that
constrain credit growth under draft rules, a senior official at
the banking regulator said.  The liquidity-risk management regulations may be more
stringent than the loan-to-deposit ratio set by the nation’s
commercial bank laws, the China Banking Regulatory Commission
official said, asking not to be named because the discussions
aren’t public. The comments refute a report in the Economic
Information Daily, which said today that the ratio won’t be
included in the new rules and may be scrapped.  Shares of banks fell in Shanghai on concern that the limits
may curtail loan growth. The regulator is imposing controls to
reduce the risk of defaults as policy makers cut  interest rates 
and lower lenders’  reserve requirements  to arrest a slowdown in
the world’s second-biggest  economy .  “The loan-to-deposit ratio has proved to be the most
effective tool in reining in lending and preventing liquidity
risks at Chinese banks,” said Luo Yi, a Shenzhen-based analyst
at China Merchants Securities Co. “The government won’t let it
go easily. All it needs to do is to not tightly enforce the
ratio when the regulator really wants to ease credit.”  Industrial Bank Co. (601166)  slid 1 percent to 13.01 yuan and China
Citic Bank Corp. fell 0.5 percent to 4.02 yuan, leading declines
among lenders in Shanghai trading. The reaction in  Hong Kong  was
mixed, with shares of  Bank of China Ltd . falling 1 percent to
HK$2.91 while  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China (1398)  Ltd. rose
0.2 percent to HK$4.29.  Slower Growth  Economic  growth  has slowed for five straight quarters, with
gross domestic product expanding 8.1 percent in the three months
ended March 31. That’s the weakest in almost three years. The
central bank in June cut interest rates for the first time since
2008, and the government is accelerating approvals for
investment projects.  The new rules will include a so-called liquidity coverage
ratio, aimed at ensuring an adequate level of cash and near-cash
assets to meet funding needs for 30 days, as well as a net
stable funding ratio to support credit growth and other
operations, the CBRC official said.  The proposed rules, being drafted to implement
international Basel III capital guidelines, haven’t been
submitted to the cabinet yet, the official said.  Lending Slowdown  New lending in May was 793.2 billion  yuan  ($125 billion),
compared with the 700 billion-yuan median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey of 29 economists and the 681.8 billion
yuan advanced by banks in April. Still, new loans in 2012 may be
as low as 7.3 trillion yuan to 7.5 trillion yuan, short of a
target of 8 trillion yuan to 8.5 trillion yuan, Jim Antos, a
Hong Kong-based analyst at Mizuho Securities  Asia , wrote in a
note yesterday.  Policy makers have refrained from introducing stimulus on
the scale unleashed during the global financial crisis,
according to the state-run Xinhua News Agency. China’s 4
trillion yuan stimulus package unveiled in 2008 led to an
unprecedented 17.5 trillion yuan of loans in the following two
years, pushing up property prices and inflation while raising
concerns over banks’ asset quality.  The banks’ average loan-to-deposit ratio stood at 64.5
percent at the end of first quarter, according to the watchdog’s
data. The largest four lenders have been assigned limits below
75 percent, officials at the banks with knowledge of the matter
said in March. Those banks have about 40 percent of yuan-
denominated loans outstanding in the country, central bank data
show.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jun Luo in  Shanghai  at 
 jluo6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  