-- China Policy ‘Misinterpretation’ Fueled Home Prices, Yi Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-07-05T03:07:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/china-policy-misinterpretation-fueled-home-prices-yi-says.html
China ’s home price increase was the
result of a “misinterpretation” of the nation’s economic
policies, a government think tank researcher wrote today.  China’s new home prices rose for the first time in 10
months as the government eased its monetary policies to bolster
the economy, SouFun Holdings Ltd., the nation’s biggest real
estate website owner, said this week.  The country has helped ease funding by lenders and vowed to
support first-time home buyers. The central bank cut the
benchmark one-year lending rate last month for the first time
since 2008, after imposing curbs in the past two years that
included higher  mortgage rates  and down payments.  “The current rise in house prices has to a large extent
been a result of misinterpretation of the government’s policies
to stimulate the economy, an increase in real estate speculation
and excessive concerns among ordinary homebuyers that prices
will continue to rise,”  Yi Xianrong , a researcher with the
Institute of Finance and Banking under the Chinese Academy of
Social Sciences, wrote in a commentary in the China Daily today.  China Vanke Co., (000002)  the biggest developer by market value on
mainland exchanges, said yesterday its contracted sales were
13.3 billion yuan ($2.1 billion) last month, a 24 percent jump
from May.  Longfor Properties Co. (960)  reported today that June sales
rose 36 percent from May.  “To reverse the rising trend in house prices, the central
government should make further efforts to convince people that
they can expect prices to fall and pay close attention to the
risk of real estate bubbles,” Yi wrote.  The comments followed a commentary in the state-run
People’s Daily yesterday that said the country shouldn’t relax
property controls as the task of ensuring long-term stable,
healthy development of the  property market  hasn’t been achieved.  --Bonnie Cao Editors: Linus Chua, Tomoko Yamazaki  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  