-- China Repo Climbs as Banks Hoard Cash for Reserve Requirements
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2012-07-05T08:38:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/china-repo-climbs-as-banks-hoard-cash-for-reserve-requirements.html
China’s benchmark money-market rate
rose, following yesterday’s biggest decline in two months, as
banks hoard cash to meet  reserve requirements  due today.  The People’s Bank of China conducted 40 billion  yuan  ($6.3
billion) of 14-day reverse repurchase agreements at a yield of 4
percent and 5 billion yuan of seven-day contracts at a yield of
3.8 percent today, according to a trader at a primary dealer
required to bid at the auctions. The central bank  pumped  225
billion yuan into the financial system this week, the biggest
injection since January, data compiled by Bloomberg shows.  “The seven-day repo rate remains elevated before today’s
reserve-requirement payment,” said  Ju Wang , a Barclays Capital
strategist in  Singapore . “There are also some negative factors
for liquidity at the beginning of July such as fiscal revenue
collection and large companies’ dividend payouts. We expect
liquidity to gradually improve.”  The  seven-day repurchase rate , a gauge of funding
availability in the financial system, rose 15 basis points to
4.02 percent in Shanghai, according to a weighted average
compiled by the National Interbank Funding Center.  China’s economy  is still weak and the central bank will cut
banks’ reserve requirements “soon,” UBS AG wrote in a report
yesterday. The China Banking Regulatory Commission may scrap a
75 percent loan-to-deposit ratio requirement in its new bank
liquidity risk management rules yet to be released, Economic
Information Daily reported today, citing an unidentified person
close to the regulator.  The one-year swap rate, the fixed cost to receive the
seven-day repurchase rate, added five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 2.61 percent in Shanghai, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The yield on five-year  government bonds 
dropped two basis points to 2.80 percent, according to the
Interbank Funding Center.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net ; 