-- Commercial Paper Falls by Most Since December 2010, Fed Says
-- B y   J o h n   P a r r y
-- 2012-07-05T18:30:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/commercial-paper-falls-by-most-since-december-2010-fed-says-1-.html
The market for U.S. corporate
borrowing via  commercial paper  contracted by the most in 19
months, led by a plunge in the amount of issuance from non-
financial companies, amid signs economic growth is slowing.  The seasonally adjusted amount of U.S. commercial paper
slid $35.8 billion to $972.5 billion outstanding in the week
ended yesterday, the  Federal Reserve  said today on its website.
It’s the biggest drop since a $44.3 billion contraction for the
period ended Dec. 1, 2010, and the lowest level since $966.4
billion for the week ended May 9, according to Fed data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Industrial firms may have chosen to reduce their reliance
on short-term funding for reporting purposes at the close of the
second quarter, according to Anthony Carfang, a partner at
Treasury Strategies. Investors in the commercial paper market
are concerned that  Europe ’s debt crisis may spread, degrading
corporate creditworthiness worldwide. The  European Central Bank 
cut  interest rates  to a record low today and said it won’t pay
anything on overnight deposits as fiscal upheaval threatens to
drive the euro region into recession.  “A company reaching quarter end may be interested in
showing less cash on its balance sheet,” said Carfang of
Chicago-based Treasury Strategies, a firm that advises corporate
treasurers . “They could achieve that by deferring their
commercial-paper issuance to after the end of the quarter.”  Funding Reliance  The  non-financial commercial paper  segment also contracted
at the close of 2011 and at the end of the first quarter.  “Showing a dependence on short-term funding whether in the
repo market or in the commercial-paper market will signal
investors you would be vulnerable to a loss of that funding or a
higher rate on that funding,”  Howard Simons , strategist at
Bianco Research LLC in  Chicago , wrote in an e-mail.  A repurchase, or repo, agreement typically involves the
sale of U.S. government securities in exchange for cash, with
the debt held as collateral for the loan.  “If a non-financial corporation can fund operations out of
its own Treasury for the end-of-quarter reporting and show lower
reliance on external funding, it may want to do so,” he said.  Commercial paper sold by non-financial companies fell $28.8
billion to $176.8 billion outstanding in the biggest drop since
a $44.3 billion contraction in the period ended June 24, 2009.
In the week ended Jan. 4, this category dropped $25.8 billion,
Fed data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Corporations sell commercial paper, typically maturing in
270 days or less, to fund everyday activities such as rent and
salaries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Parry  in  New York  at 
 jparry5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  