-- Congo Mines Ministry Says Revised Mining Code Ready Year-End
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 2012-07-05T18:11:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/congo-mines-ministry-says-revised-mining-code-ready-year-end-1-.html
The government of the  Democratic
Republic  of Congo expects to pass a revised mining code before
the end of the year, Valery Mukasa, Mines Minister  Martin
Kabwelulu ’s chief of staff, said.  The ministry will present proposed changes to the
government this month, Mukasa said today in an interview in the
capital, Kinshasa. None of the amendments will require
renegotiation of old contracts, he said. He declined to give
further details.  “If we do renegotiation after renegotiation and revision
after revision, our business climate will keep being
criticized,” he told reporters in the capital. “At some point
it has to stop.”  Congo in 2010 announced the end of a three-year process of
revisiting all mining contracts. The renegotiations resulted in
the cancellation of several contracts including  First Quantum
Mineral Ltd. (FM) ’s Kolwezi project and were criticized by
organizations including the Carter Center and Global Witness for
a lack of transparency.  The  World Bank  ranked Congo the 178th most difficult place
in the world to do business out of 183 countries surveyed last
year. The  International Monetary Fund  is delaying disbursement
of about $160 million in loans to Congo, citing a series of
secretive asset sales last year by state-controlled mining
companies and asking for improved governance in the  mining
industry .  Under a joint program launched today by the World Bank, the
Mines Ministry and the U.K.’s Department for International
Development, or DFID, $90 million will be spent to improve
management of Congo’s mining industry.  “To realize its potential, Congo needs to attract more
investment from companies with a global reach,” Christopher
Pycroft, the head of DFID in Congo, told reporters today in
Kinshasa. “At the moment the business climate is not attractive
for these companies.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Kavanagh in Kinshasa at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bryson Hull at 
 bhull5@bloomberg.net  