-- Congress Keeps Free Mail While Pushing U.S. Postal Cuts
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2012-07-05T21:56:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/congress-keeps-free-mail-while-pushing-u-s-postal-cuts.html
Lawmakers intent on dictating how the
U.S. Postal Service cuts billions from its spending are among
those helping themselves to a favorite congressional perk: free
mail.  U.S. House members sent more than $45 million worth of such
mail in 2010 and 2011 even while switching much of their
communication to e-mail in recent years. Three of the 10 largest
users last year were Republican members of the Tea Party  caucus ,
which advocates for less  government spending , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg from House  reports .  The Postal Service, which has more employees than any U.S.-
based publicly traded company other than  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ,
lost $3.2 billion in the quarter ended March 31 and has said it
expects to temporarily run out of cash in October. It has asked
Congress to let it make changes, including slowing required
payments for future retirees’ health benefits.  “There’s a certain amount of hypocrisy, but then again,
when you’re the head of the plantation, you can pretty much do
what you want,”  said Gene Del Polito, president of the
Association for Postal Commerce, whose members include  Williams-
Sonoma Inc. (WSM)  and Publishers Clearing House LLC. “Obviously they
should be leading by example. Instead, they do quite the
opposite.”  Top Frankers  The privilege known as franking, dating to the Continental
Congress in 1775, allows lawmakers to send mail to constituents
at no cost using their signatures. Franking doesn’t deprive the
 Postal Service , which reported $65.7 billion in revenue in its
2011 fiscal year, of income. It does cost U.S. taxpayers who
reimburse the Postal Service at rates similar to those paid by
other bulk mailers.  Of the top 50 frankers by spending, 38 -- or 76 percent --
are Republicans, who are 56 percent of House members. Franking
typically is used more in election years; for example, House
members spent $34.1 million in 2010 and $11.3 million in 2011,
according to a Congressional Research Service report.  The top franker, Representative Joe Heck, is a first-term
Nevada Republican elected with the support of Tea Party voters.
Heck sent mass mailings worth $430,680 from the beginning of
2011 through March 31, 14.2 percent more than the next largest
franker, according to House records. He sent letters about
Medicare, the national debt and balancing the budget.  Heck, through spokesman Greg Lemon, declined multiple
requests to comment.  Campaign Materials  Heck’s re-election race in November is rated a “toss-up”
by the Cook Political Report newsletter.  “This is something that lawmakers have been using and
abusing for a long time,” said  Steve Ellis , vice president of
Taxpayers for Common Sense, a Washington-based group that
advocates more efficient government spending. “It’s one of
several different incumbency-protection rackets that they’ve got
going on. They can send some periodic updates to their
constituents that, even though they’re approved by a committee,
are pretty thinly veiled campaign materials.”  While senators can send franked mail, their rules give them
less to spend than House members. The Senate spent $1.5 million
in 2011, according to the CRS report.  The second-largest franker since 2011, Representative Vern Buchanan, a Florida Republican, asked constituents in a
September online poll whether they’d support a Postal Service
“bailout.” He spoke in favor of keeping a mail-processing
plant that the Postal Service tried to close to cut costs and
decided last year to keep open.  Keeping Contact  Buchanan, whom the Cook report doesn’t expect to face a
serious re-election challenge, has sent franked newsletters with
surveys about gun rights and veterans’ issues. He sent $377,111
worth of mass mail from the beginning of 2011 through March 31,
according to House records.  “Staying in touch” is a priority of the third-term
lawmaker, Max Goodman, a spokesman, said. “A big reason why
 Washington  is broken is that too many aren’t listening.”  The Postal Service, an independent U.S. agency since 1971,
doesn’t get direct taxpayer support and is supposed to be self-
sustaining.  “Franking from our perspective is good because it puts
mail in the system and it gives the House and Senate an
opportunity to reach out to constituents,” U.S. Postmaster
General Patrick Donahoe said in an interview.  Franking Costs  The franking totals include costs for mail from individual
offices, congressional committees and leadership offices. House
members and delegates sent an average of $25,682 per person last
year and $77,500 the year before.  Nine of the top 10 frankers have been in Congress for less
than a decade. The other, Representative  Brad Sherman , a
California Democrat, is a 16-year House veteran.  “The fact that Congress still sends out so much
unsolicited mail must mean that it’s motivated for some
reason,” National Taxpayers Union Executive Vice President Pete Sepp, a critic of franking, said. “Cynical taxpayers would say
that it involves self-promotion.”  Sherman and Representative Howard Berman, another
California Democrat who’s finishing his 15th term, were put into
the same congressional district and are running against each
other this year.  Berman and Sherman spent $5.5 million combined through May
16, making their race the nation’s most expensive pitting one
incumbent against another, according to the Center for
Responsive Politics, a Washington-based group that tracks
campaign spending.  Sherman said he uses franked mailings to let constituents
know about the 160 town-hall meetings he’s had during his
tenure.  ‘Critical Service’  “It’s important for everyone in my district to know they
could come to a town hall,” Sherman said in an interview,
noting Los Angeles-area media don’t cover town-hall meetings.
“Knowing that their member of Congress is that accessible is a
critical service I provide.”  Berman primarily sends calendars bearing his signature and
pictures of Washington to constituents at the end of the year,
Adam Sharon, a spokesman, said.  “Howard’s constituents enjoy receiving responses to policy
concerns from their congressman, invitation letters to community
meetings he hosts, or U.S. Historical Society calendars sent at
year’s end,” Sharon said. “These are not glossy or self-
promotional campaign-style mailers sent as franked mail.”  Avoiding Appearances  Franking’s  history  includes abuses such as a committee
chairman sending mail to districts far from his own. In 1996,
Illinois Representative Dan Rostenkowski pleaded guilty to mail
fraud charges stemming from an investigation into misuse of
House mailing privileges and was sentenced to 19 months in
prison.  Not all lawmakers frank. Those who spent nothing during
this session of Congress include Democratic and Republican
leaders, some retiring members and Representative Steven LaTourette, an  Ohio Republican .  “I don’t do it,” LaTourette said in an interview, saying
he criticized his first opponent for his House seat in 1994 for
abusing the frank. “I think it would be hypocritical for me to
do it while having campaigned against it.”  Representative  Dennis Ross , a Florida Republican who is
chairman of the subcommittee overseeing the Postal Service and a
member of the Tea Party Caucus, sent $69,772 of franked mail in
the past five quarters, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Control Board  Ross is a sponsor, along with Representative  Darrell Issa ,
a California Republican, of a postal measure that House Majority
Leader  Eric Cantor  has said will be considered between this
month. The measure would put the Postal Service under a control
board if it defaults on payments to the U.S. government, allow
it to cut Saturday delivery and create a commission to decide
which facilities to close.  Ross’s unsolicited mass mailings rank 212th among House
members, almost at the median.  “Over the last two years, congressional office budgets
have been cut by 11 percent in real dollars,” Fredrick Piccolo,
a Ross spokesman, said.  Franked mail ranges from calendars bearing lawmakers’ names
and images of the U.S. Capitol to mailings targeted at groups of
constituents opposing gun-control legislation or interested in
job fairs.  One Photograph  House members can’t send franked mail in the 90 days before
elections. They’re instructed to have no more than one picture
of themselves alone in a mailed piece and aren’t supposed to
reference themselves more than an average of eight times per
page.  The pieces provide the name recognition that helps drive
votes, said  Craig Holman , government affairs lobbyist at  Public
Citizen  in Washington.  “Franked mail tends to be praising of the member of
Congress, perhaps even the political party that they work for,”
Holman said. “This is campaign material. Very, very rarely have
I seen franked mail that’s just information to constituents
about what Congress is doing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  