-- Consumer Comfort in U.S. Declined Last Week From Two-Month High
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2012-07-05T13:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/consumer-comfort-in-u-s-declined-last-week-from-two-month-high.html
Consumer confidence  dropped last week
from a two-month high as fewer Americans considered it a good
time to spend and their views of the economy languished.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index decreased to minus
37.5 in the week ended July 1 from minus 36.1 in the previous
period. Even with the drop, the measure averaged minus 37.6 in
the second quarter, the best showing since the first three
months of 2008, helped in part by lower gasoline prices.  Slower job growth and an unemployment rate that’s exceeded
8 percent for 40 straight months is restraining sentiment and
making it difficult for spending to pick up. Confidence waned
among Americans earning $50,000 a year or more as  Europe ’s debt
crisis took a toll on investments.  “The decline in consumer comfort is consistent with the
soft spending data observed over the past two months and does
pose a risk to the growth path of the economy,” said  Joseph Brusuelas , a senior economist at Bloomberg LP in New York. It’s
“reversing three months of improvement of sentiment among
upper-end households that have been the main drivers of the
modest pickup in overall household spending in 2012.”  Other data today indicate the  U.S. economy  is avoiding
further deterioration in the labor market.  Fewer Americans than forecast filed  first-time claims  for
unemployment insurance payments last week. Applications for
jobless benefits decreased 14,000 in the week ended June 30 to
374,000, the fewest since the middle of May, Labor Department
figures showed.  ADP Data  Companies added more workers than forecast in June,
according to a report from Roseland, New Jersey-based ADP
Employer Services. The 176,000 gain last month followed a
136,000 rise the prior month that was higher than initially
estimated.  Stocks dropped as concern over the outlook for global
growth outweighed the better labor market data. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index declined 0.3 percent to 1,370.07 at 9:41 a.m.
in  New York .  Other measures of confidence have declined as the labor
market weakened. The Conference Board’s sentiment reading fell
in June to a five-month low, the New York-based group said last
week. The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan’s measure
dropped last month to the lowest level this year.  Payrolls climbed by 69,000 in May, less than the most-
pessimistic forecast in a Bloomberg survey, after a revised
77,000 gain in April that was smaller than initially estimated,
Labor Department figures showed June 1. The jobless rate rose to
8.2 percent from 8.1 percent.  Payroll Forecast  The jobs tally in June probably capped the weakest quarter
for employment in more than two years, a Labor Department report
tomorrow is projected to show. Employers added 90,000 workers to
payrolls, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg
survey.  The Bloomberg index of whether consumers consider it a good
time to buy declined to minus 42.4 after minus 40.9 the prior
week. The gauge of personal finances fell to 1.8 from 4.4.  The index of the state of the national economy was little
changed at minus 71.7 after minus 71.9.  Sentiment for higher-income respondents was negative for
the second straight week, while confidence among households
earning $50,000 or more was the weakest in a month.  “As a general rule, when the index is negative among
better-off Americans, consumer sentiment is in trouble
overall,”  Gary Langer , president of Langer Research Associates
in New York, which compiles the index for Bloomberg, said in a
statement.  Cheaper Gasoline  Cheaper gasoline failed to spur confidence last week. The
 average cost  of a gallon of regular unleaded reached $3.33 a
gallon on July 1, down 61 cents from a high this year reached in
April, according to AAA, the nation’s largest auto group.  Target Corp. and Macy’s Inc. posted June same-store sales
that trailed analysts’ estimates, a report today showed.
Purchases at Target, the second-largest U.S. discount chain,
rose 2.1 percent, falling short of the average projection for a
2.8 percent gain from analysts surveyed by researcher Retail
Metrics Inc. Macy’s, the second-biggest U.S. department-store
chain, posted a 1.2 percent increase in same-store sales,
missing the 2.3 percent estimate.  “Consumers continue to face difficult economic
headwinds,”  Howard Levine , chairman and chief executive officer
of Matthews, North Carolina-based Family Dollar Stores, Inc.,
said on a June 28 earnings call. “While consumer expectations
for inflation have moderated recently, unemployment rates have
given up gains and consumer confidence is deteriorating.”  Today’s figures also showed Democrats registering  higher
sentiment  than Republicans for a record 15th consecutive week,
while independents were at their second-lowest reading of the
year at minus 46.8.  Survey Details  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index is based on responses
to telephone interviews with a random sample of 1,000 consumers
18 years old and older. Each week, 250 respondents are asked for
their views on the economy, personal finances and buying
climate; the percentage of negative responses is subtracted from
the share of positive views and divided by three. The most
recent reading is based on the average of responses over the
previous four weeks.  The latest reading for the first time included mobile phone
and Spanish-language interviews as a transition toward expanding
the survey’s reach.  The comfort index can range from 100, indicating every
participant in the survey had a positive response to all three
components, to minus 100, signaling all views were negative. The
margin of error for the headline reading is 3 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  