-- Credit Swaps in U.S. Rise as ECB Cuts Main Rate to Record Low
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2012-07-05T21:18:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/credit-swaps-in-u-s-rise-as-ecb-cuts-main-rate-to-record-low.html
A gauge of U.S. company credit risk
increased for the first time in a week as European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  said today’s cut in  interest rates  to a
record low would have a “muted” effect on the economy.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark used to hedge against losses on
corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness, climbed 2.5
basis points to a mid-price of 109 basis points at 4:44 p.m. in
New York, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. Contracts
tied to  Limited Brands Inc. (LTD)  declined after June sales beat
estimates.  Policy makers meeting in  Frankfurt  today lowered the ECB’s
main refinancing rate to a record low of 0.75 percent from 1
percent, as predicted by 49 of 64 economists in a Bloomberg News
survey. The central bank also cut its deposit rate to zero from
0.25 percent as the sovereign-debt crisis threatens to push the
euro region into recession and pressure the global economy.  “The reality is, after you’ve done this for year after
year, do you really think that a 25-basis point cut in  Europe  is
going to stimulate the economy?” Robert Grimm, a trader at
broker-dealer Odeon Capital Group LLC in Greenwich,  Connecticut ,
said in a telephone interview. “It’s symbolic more than it’s
real.”  The 17-nation euro economy will shrink 0.3 percent this
year, according to the European Commission, and unemployment
rose to a record 11.1 percent in May.  ‘Price Signals’  “It’s clear that when demand is weak the transmission of
price signals to the aggregated economy is muted,” Draghi said
at a press conference today.  China ’s central bank also reduced its rates today, cutting
the one-year lending rate by 31 basis points and the one-year
deposit rate by 25 basis points starting tomorrow, according to
a statement posted on the People’s Bank of China’s website.
China is seeking to boost growth after the world’s second-
largest economy expanded 8.1 percent in the first quarter from a
year earlier, the least in almost three years and the fifth
quarterly slowdown.  Concern that economic conditions in China and Europe may
worsen “overshadowed” reports that showed fewer Americans than
forecast filed for  unemployment benefits  last week and U.S.
companies hired more workers in June than economists had
estimated, Grimm said.  Jobless Claims  First-time applications for  unemployment insurance  fell by
14,000 in the week ended June 30 to 374,000, Labor Department
data showed today. That’s less than the median forecast of
385,000 claims called for by 46 economists in a Bloomberg News
Survey. Private payrolls grew by 176,000 in June, following a
revised gain of 136,000 in May, according to Roseland, New
Jersey-based ADP Employer Services. The median estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News forecast a 100,000
advance.  Same-store sales at Limited, the parent company of
Victoria’s Secret, increased 7 percent in June, beating the 2.6
percent average estimate of analysts surveyed by Retail Metrics
Inc. The research firm said today that same-store sales at the
more than 20 retailers it tracks rose 0.3 percent, compared with
an average estimate of 1 percent.  The cost to guard against losses on Limited’s debt for five
years decreased 10.9 basis points to a mid-price of 235.4 basis
points at 4:04 p.m. in  New York , Bloomberg prices show.  The swaps gauge typically rises as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves. Credit swaps pay the
buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations,
less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in New York at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  