-- Credit Agricole Says China Rate Move to Assure 2nd-Half Recovery
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-07-05T11:58:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/credit-agricole-says-china-rate-move-to-assure-2nd-half-recovery.html
Dariusz Kowalczyk, a Hong Kong-based
senior economist and strategist at  Credit Agricole  CIB, comments
on China’s second interest-rate cut in a month.  The People’s Bank of China said today the one-year lending
rate will fall by 31 basis points and the one-year deposit rate
will drop by 25 basis points effective tomorrow. Banks can offer
loans of as much as 30 percent less than benchmark rates, the
central bank said on its website.  “The rate cut is in line with our expectation of reduction
in the third quarter, but comes sooner in the quarter than we
had anticipated and -- in the case of one-year lending -- is
larger than the 25 basis points we expected.”  “Combined with further interest rate liberalization
(maximum lending rate discount was widened to 30 percent from 20
percent), this amounts to a huge reduction of the cost of
lending, which will be a boost to the economy.”  “The aggressive cuts over the past month suggest serious
concern about growth slowdown in the second quarter, and may
mean that June and second-quarter data will prove really weak,
amid a sharp drop in inflation.”  “It seems that policy makers are trying to get ahead
of the curve, and today’s move has allowed them to do so.
Combined with other stimulus measures introduced in the past
several weeks, this will assure growth recovery in the second
half.”  “We keep our 8 percent GDP growth forecast for 2012 and
believe that this is likely the end of the rate-cutting cycle,
with RRR cuts to follow.”  “We expect  yuan  interest-rate swap rates to fall, and the
yuan to rise on the move. However, any gain in the yuan will be
limited by a sense that the PBOC may view economic conditions as
pretty poor to make such a sudden move.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bloomberg News in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shiyin Chen at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net  