-- Dangote Flour Rises to Month-High on Tiger Pact: Lagos Mover
-- B y   V i n c e n t   N w a n m a
-- 2012-07-05T12:12:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/dangote-flour-rises-to-month-high-on-tiger-pact-lagos-mover.html
Dangote Flour Mills Plc (DANGFLOU) , a Nigerian
producer, headed for its highest in more than a month after
 Tiger Brands Ltd. (TBS)  of  South Africa  agreed to take a majority
stake in the miller.  The stock rose 4.9 percent to 6.24 naira as of 12:15 p.m.
in Lagos, the commercial capital, set for the strongest close
since May 30.  Tiger Brands, South Africa’s largest food company, has
reached agreement in principle to buy a 63.4 percent stake in
Dangote Flour from Dangote Industries Ltd. the Johannesburg-
based company said yesterday. The proposed deal has been
submitted to  Nigeria ’s Securities and Exchange Commission for
approval, according to a joint statement to South Africa’s
bourse, where Tiger Brands is listed.  “The deal will give Dangote Flour an edge in terms of
product acceptance and a wider business horizon,” Eugene
Ezenwa, chief operating officer of PAC Securities Ltd., a Lagos-
based brokerage, said by phone today. “It will help guarantee
some level of foreign funding when the need arises, and also
standardize the company’s processes, and that’s why investors
are scrambling for the stock.”  Dangote Flour Mills is listed on the  Nigerian Stock
Exchange , with 73.4 percent of the stock held by Dangote
Industries, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Dangote
Industries is closely held by Nigerian billionaire  Aliko Dangote , who is also president of the Lagos-based Nigerian Stock
Exchange.  Tiger Brands wants to expand into Africa to increase
revenue from its operations outside South Africa to 30 percent
of total sales over the next five to 10 years as the home market
slows, Chief Executive Officer Peter Matlare said on May 22  Dangote Flour shares have risen 25 percent this year,
compared with a 6 percent gain in the Nigerian Stock Exchange
All-Share Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vincent Nwanma in Lagos at 
 vnwanma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dulue Mbachu at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net  