-- Danish Battle to Weaken Krone Risks Undermining Bank Recovery
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2012-07-05T06:36:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/danish-battle-to-weaken-krone-risks-undermining-bank-recovery.html
The Danish central bank’s battle to
maintain the krone’s peg to the euro may be undermining a
recovery in the Nordic country’s banking industry.  Nationalbanken probably will follow the  European Central
Bank  today in cutting  interest rates  by a quarter of a
percentage point to defend the krone’s peg to the euro,
according to  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE) , the country’s largest lender. That
would bring  Denmark ’s benchmark lending rate to 0.2 percent,
while the rate Nationalbanken offers on  certificates of deposit 
may drop as low as minus 0.2 percent, Danske Bank said.  Governor Nils Bernstein has warned there’s no limit to the
scope for deploying currency interventions and rate cuts to
defend the krone’s peg to the euro. Fiscal restraint and a
current account surplus have turned Denmark into a haven from
 Europe ’s debt crisis, triggering a capital influx that Bernstein
is fighting to stem. That means that banks depositing funds with
the central bank now face having to pay for that privilege.  “It’s a major challenge for the financial sector,” Jan
Stoerup Nielsen, a senior analyst at Nordea Bank AB, said in an
interview. “It’s hard to imagine a situation where the deposit
rate for households would be zero,” or one in which “you have
to pay to have your money in the bank,” he said.  Burst Bubble  Denmark’s banks, which had 186 billion kroner ($31.3
billion) in deposits at the central bank as of yesterday, are
struggling to emerge from a burst real estate bubble that has
sent  house prices  plunging 25 percent since their 2007 peak.
More than a dozen banks have failed since then and two thirds of
the country’s regional lenders reported losses last year,
leaving the industry reluctant to withdraw funds from safe
central bank accounts and channel them into the economy.  Record-low central bank rates are also dragging down bank
rates. While households are benefitting, lenders are struggling
to make a profit. Denmark’s financial industry reported
aggregate profit before tax of 3.6 billion kroner last year,
compared with 39.7 billion kroner in 2007, according to figures
from the Danish Financial Supervisory Authority.  “It’s a core business of the banks to attract deposits and
try to make a margin on it, and that’s becoming increasingly
difficult, if not impossible,” Thomas Hovard, head of credit
research at Danske Bank, said in an interview.  The industry has raised fees on loans to counter declining
central bank rates, raising protests among customers, Hovard
said. Still, banks don’t have many options given increased
regulatory demands to raise capital levels, he said.  Hammered Margins  “Building up the necessary capital buffers could be
difficult,” Hovard said. “One of the ways out of the crisis is
to be more profitable, and one of the ways to do that is to
increase lending margins, especially when deposit margins are
getting hammered.”  Alternately, banks will have to issue new shares or
deleverage, Hovard said. “But from a societal point of view,
deleveraging is not a good thing,” he said.  Denmark’s banks are already asking customers to convert
their loans into mortgages as they look for ways to reduce
capital and financing burdens. The 100 banks that offer home
loans through Copenhagen-based Nykredit A/S’s subsidiary
Totalkredit A/S are tapping customers’ equity to issue bonds and
replace loans, said Soeren Holm, group managing director of
finance at Europe’s biggest issuer of covered bonds back by home
loans.  Krone Swings  Denmark’s  foreign reserves  climbed to a record high in June
after the central bank tapped the  currency market  to weaken the
krone. Reserves rose by 9.2 billion kroner last month to 511.6
billion kroner, the central bank said.  Denmark has an agreement with the European Central Bank to
let the krone swing no more than 2.25 percent around a central
rate of 7.46038, though it maintains a tighter trading band in
practice.  To help cushion the impact of a rate cut on its
certificates of deposit, the central bank may raise the amount
that banks can hold in current accounts from 23 billion kroner
to as much as 200 billion kroner, Nielsen at Nordea said. The
rate can’t drop below zero.  “It’s a huge challenge,” he said. “It’s all going back
to the fact that we have a peg to the euro, and we have a
central bank that’s very up on defending the very narrow band.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at   tbrogger@bloomberg.net  