-- Unknown Disease Killing Children Across Cambodia, WHO Says
-- B y   J a s o n   G a l e
-- 2012-07-06T07:26:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/deadly-disease-claims-child-victims-across-cambodia-who-says.html
Victims of a  disease  that’s killed
dozens of children in  Cambodia  were from more than half the
country’s provinces, a World Health Organization official said.  The first 57 patients were from 14 of Cambodia’s 24
provinces, with most coming from the southeastern provinces of
Kampong Cham, Kampong Speu and Prey Veng, said Joy Rivaca
Caminade, a technical officer with WHO’s Regional Office for the
Western Pacific in  Manila . The Ministry of Health was first
alerted to the cases by  Kantha Bopha Children’s Hospital  in the
capital, Phnom Penh, Caminade said in an e-mail today.  Health officials are searching for the cause of the deaths,
which may be the result of a combination of different diseases,
according to Caminade. Surveillance in the Southeast Asian
nation hasn’t picked up anything of this scale in recent years,
she said. So far, there is no evidence of clustering of cases
that could indicate that it’s spreading from person to person.  The undiagnosed syndrome has been reported in 67 hospital
patients since April, 66 of whom have died, said Aphaluck
Bhatiasevi, a WHO spokeswoman, in a telephone interview from
 Phnom Penh  today. It’s unlikely influenza is the cause, she
said.  No Autopsies  “No autopsy was done on any of the cases,” said Nima
Asgari, the leader of the WHO’s emerging disease surveillance
and response team in Cambodia.  Health officials are reviewing hospital records and
treatments provided, as well as surveying relatives of patients,
to understand the events that occurred from when the children
fell ill to their hospitalization. The information is then being
matched with laboratory data, he said.  “As you can imagine, this will take time and we are still
at the data analysis part,” Asgari said in an e-mail today.  Children admitted to the hospital with symptoms including
high fever, breathing difficulty and neurological problems saw
their respiratory function worsen quickly, Caminade said
yesterday. A review of 57 cases found 46 of them died within 24
hours of admission, with the rest suffering the same fate within
three days, she said. The stricken children were aged three
months to seven years.  The United Nations health agency is working with Cambodia’s
health ministry and has offered support and access to
international experts in areas such as epidemiology, she said.
The WHO is on standby to provide support for clinical management
and supplies of medicines if requested.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Gale in Melbourne at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  