-- Deere Made-in-America Tractors Plow Brazil Soil as Farms Upgrade
-- B y   B r y a n   G r u l e y   a n d   S h r u t i   S i n g h
-- 2012-07-05T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/deere-made-in-america-tractors-plow-brazil-soil-as-farms-upgrade.html
On a scorching afternoon in the
savanna of eastern Brazil, Wilson Horita is 8 feet above the
ground, bouncing on the driver’s seat of the new green-and-
yellow tractor parked on his family’s farm.  “It’s totally pneumatic,” he tells a visitor. Horita
doesn’t drive tractors, he buys them. “Let’s talk about
comfort,” he says, speaking in Portuguese as another Brazilian,
perched on the ladder to the cab, translates.  “There’s totally acoustic insulation,” Horita says,
meaning the cab dulls the roar of the 270-horsepower engine and
the clank of row-crop planters slicing through soil. “And,” he
continues, sounding more like a car salesman than the farmer he
is, “there’s air conditioning.”  The cab’s interior could pass for a BMW’s,  Bloomberg
Businessweek  reports in its July 9 issue, only with storefront-
size windows and a console crowded with buttons, knobs, and
levers that control hands-free steering, a rear hitch, and the
planter or grain cart being towed. A color touchscreen tracks
hourly fuel use, area covered, engine oil pressure, and a bunch
of other measures. Another screen linked to a yellow-domed GPS
receiver on the roof lets the driver watch a digital version of
his tractor trundle through digital fields. The GPS keeps the
tractor from rolling over more than 2 1/2 centimeters (1 inch) 
of the same ground twice. Horita taps an orange pedal with his 
right foot.  “The accelerator,” he says. “You don’t use that.”
That’s because the tractor can drive itself, controlling its own
speed and direction.  Iowa Factory  Horita, a slight 52-year-old of Japanese descent, is
wearing patterned dress slacks and a blue pinstriped shirt open
at the collar. A gold chain glints on his sun-browned neck, and
a pack of Dunhill cigarettes nests in his shirt pocket. On his
feet are two-toned shoes bearing the leaping stag logo of  Deere
& Co. (DE) , the U.S. company that made this tractor and more than 160
others on his farm. Horita glances over his shoulder through a
window that was glued into place by a robot in an Iowa factory.
A driver must see well, he says, to make sure whatever he’s
pulling is working properly.  He’s heard Deere is working on a new technology that will
enable one tractor to control six others trailing behind,
reducing the need for drivers from seven to one. He likes the
sound of that, though he does wonder how a single operator would
be able to keep an eye on everything the tractors are towing.  “Technology is ahead of our expectations,” he says,
shrugging.  Cotton-Pickers  Horita and his family have placed a big bet on Deere’s
technology to help them farm their 212,000 acres (86,000
hectares), which is more land area than the city of Chicago. The
model  8270R tractor  in which Horita sits cost $170,000. It’s
part of Deere’s new 8R line (the 270 denotes horsepower).  The farm’s fleet also counts 33 Deere cotton-pickers that
run about $600,000 apiece, eight Deere combines that can cost
$350,000 each, and dozens of sprayers and planters, for a total
investment of $40 million.  Most of the Deere gear was purchased in the last few years,
as the family switched from  CNH Global NV (CNH)  and other makers.
Horita says it wasn’t so much the high-tech gadgetry that
persuaded them to go with Deere.  “The main difference is the durability,” he says. Deere’s
tractors are pricier than others, but they’ve paid off in
productivity and reliability. The Horitas can’t afford
breakdowns. There’s simply too much money to be made.  Ditching Plows  An industrial revolution of sorts is sweeping across the
developing world’s corn, rice, soybean, wheat, and sugarcane
fields. Some farmers in China and  India  are finally ditching
horse- and ox-drawn plows to buy their first-ever tractors.
Others are upgrading to bigger tractors and combines with more
power and advanced technology that helps farmers plant and
harvest faster and more precisely with fewer workers.  Both trends benefit Deere, the Moline, Illinois-based
company founded in 1837 by John Deere, a blacksmith who
developed a polished-steel plow and figured out how to mass-
produce it. After 175 years and eight more chief executive
officers (the Roman Catholic Church has had 12 popes in the same
span), Deere remains the world’s largest maker of  farm
equipment .  “Deere is quintessential made-in-America,” says Andy Kaplowitz, an analyst with Barclays Plc in New York.  Most Americans know the John Deere riding mowers at Home
Depot or those green-and-yellow caps sported by urbanites who’ve
never ventured near a farm. But the bulk of Deere’s revenue
comes from machinery that would barely fit in a typical
backyard.  Few Acquisitions  From its low-slung headquarters tucked into woods near the
Mississippi River, Deere dominates the $23 billion U.S.-Canada
market for farm equipment with a 60 percent share, according to
William Blair & Co. That helped the company post a record  net
income  of $2.8 billion on record sales of $32 billion for the
fiscal year ended Oct. 31.  Deere’s strategy is to couple state-of-the-art machines
with dealers who work so closely with farmers that they become
virtual partners, often locking in customers over several
generations. The company makes few acquisitions, preferring to
develop products internally. Its biggest shareholder, with a 6.2
percent stake, is Cascade Investment LLC,  Bill Gates ’s personal
money-management firm.  Unsuitable Tractors  Replicating its domestic success overseas hasn’t been easy
for Deere. For years, tractors it designed for the Great Plains
were too big or otherwise unsuitable for overseas growers, who
have to contend with smaller plots, roadway driving, and uneven
terrain.  “You can’t go with a German tractor and conquer the world
or a U.S. tractor and conquer the world,” says Markwart von Pentz, who manages Deere’s sales outside the U.S. “You have to
design to the requirements of the market.”  European farmers tend to want more speed and turning
ability, while rice growers in India prefer compact vehicles
that won’t sink in paddies.  David Victor Makin, CEO of Brazilian cane grower Agro-
Pecuaria CFM, says he’s happy with his 300 tractors made by  Agco
Corp. (AGCO) , the Duluth, Georgia-based manufacturer that, as one of
Deere’s main competitors, builds Valtra and Massey Ferguson
tractors. He says some of Deere’s high-tech options are
“frills” that are prone to break and that his 185-horsepower
tractors have plenty of muscle and are more versatile on hilly
sugarcane fields.  Global Ambitions  “If you want somebody to get from home to office, you
don’t buy a Harley-Davidson, you buy a little scooter,” he
says.  Deere’s global ambitions are important not just to the
company and its shareholders but also to the world. To feed a
population expected to hit 9 billion by 2050,  food production 
must increase by 60 percent, according to the  United Nations ’
 Food and Agriculture Organization .  With arable land available, Brazil, Russia, India, and
China have emerged as new agricultural powers. But even they
lack enough acres to meet demand. Advances in seed, fertilizer,
and pesticide technology must work hand-in-hand with tractors
and other equipment to help farmers squeeze every last bushel of
yield from their fields.  World tractor unit sales are expected to grow about 1.8
percent a year through 2015, to about 1.4 million; higher prices
and the mix of products may push revenue up about 5 percent,
says consulting firm AlixPartners. While China and India are
buying the most tractors, many customers there favor smaller,
cheaper models, made by domestic companies -- Foton Lovol
International Heavy Industry Co. in China and  Mahindra &
Mahindra Ltd. (MM)  in India.  New Products  Deere CEO  Samuel Allen  aims to increase total sales to $50
billion by 2018, with half from outside the U.S. and Canada, up
from 39 percent today. In the last few years the company has
finally begun to make significant gains in Brazil and other
countries where its rivals -- mainly Agco and CNH of Amsterdam,
which makes Case and New Holland machinery -- have deeper roots.
Twenty years ago, Deere had two tractor factories outside the
U.S. Today it has nine, in Germany, India, China, Mexico, and
Brazil.  Last year in Europe, Deere introduced more than 100
products. Nearly half of Deere’s 61,300 full-time  employees  work
outside the U.S. The company is recruiting dealers native to the
countries, such as Olmiro Flores de Oliveira, who sold the
Horitas their tractors and other machines.  Large Farms  It’s no surprise that Deere has moved deliberately. A
company as old as Deere “almost by definition is methodical,”
says Allen, a genial 59-year-old who graduated from  Purdue
University  hoping to become a golf pro. He’s sipping red wine
over dinner at a single table set up in a common area at Deere
headquarters.  “We’re normally not the first to market,” he says.
“We’re normally followers, but we do it better.”  One key to Deere’s global expansion is the 8R tractor line,
the first the company designed for farmers worldwide. The 8R is
still too big for some places -- India, for example -- but it’s
suited to the growing number of large farms outside  North
America .  A base 8R is about 20 feet long, with a narrow snout
jutting from a boxy, 11-foot-high cab. Depending on which
attachments it carries, an 8R can weigh more than 30,000 pounds
(13,608 kilograms). Allen likes to boast that its technology has
more lines of software code than a space shuttle.  Ford Anxiety  It’s manufactured in Waterloo, Iowa, a town of 68,000 that
straddles the Cedar River, cheers for the Waterloo Black Hawks
amateur hockey team, and is about one-fifth the size of the
Horitas’ farm.  The 8R’s  ancestors  were born here nearly a century ago. In
1918, Deere was 81 years old, the founder was long dead, and the
company that was built on plows faced a crisis: Competition from
motorized tractors.  Deere’s board of directors met that January amid worries
that the mighty Ford Motor Co. was getting into the tractor
business. Director Willard Velie gave the board a letter saying,
“I think it is safe to eliminate the horse, the mule, the bull
team and the woman, so far as generally furnishing motive power
is concerned.”  Waterloo Gasoline Engine, maker of the Waterloo Boy
tractor, was for sale. The Deere board debated buying it.  Waterloo Foundry  “I am not particularly enthusiastic over the tractor
business,” director William Morgan said, according to minutes
of the meeting. “But if it is coming, and I believe you cannot
stop it, we should get into it in some way.”  Deere bought the tractor maker for $2.35 million, about $36
million in today’s dollars.  Today 5,600 people work in Deere’s Waterloo complex. With
its own foundry, engine factory, engineering center, and
assembly plant, it recalls  Henry Ford ’s vertically integrated
car-building facility near Detroit in the early 1900s.  Deere has invested $1.1 billion in Waterloo in the last
decade and added 850 jobs in the past two years. The company
won’t say how many tractors it produces, but Waterloo ships
thousands each year to more than 130 countries. Deere makes most
of its high-horsepower tractors there, from the 6R line, with
horsepower ranging from 170 to 210, to the monster 9Rs, which
can reach 560 horsepower.  Farmer Interviews  Deere started developing the 8R in 2006. After interviewing
growers around the world, the company in 2009 introduced the 8R
with bigger cabs and easier-to-use displays. Even as the 8R made
its debut, Deere was working on the next version, in part to
meet stricter emissions standards in some countries.  The company interviewed 1,500 customers. Many spoke of a
 labor shortage  as the world’s population shifts to urban areas,
putting a bigger premium on automated machinery. With crop
prices high and costs for seeds and fertilizer also rising,
farmers with limited windows for planting and harvesting can’t
abide equipment breakdowns.  On the Horita farm, a single day of downtime during
planting can cost $1,200 per tractor -- which can add up fast on
a farm with 200-plus machines.  “The farm is basically a factory in the middle of
nowhere,” says Sanjay Sarma, an engineering professor at the
 Massachusetts Institute of Technology . “If your machine breaks,
you are up a creek.”  Many farmers wanted the next 8R to be more powerful than
the original but just as agile and fuel-efficient. Growers in
Russia and parts of Brazil in particular desired tractors that
could haul wider planters and other implements so fewer tractors
-- and workers -- would be needed.  Tractor Frames  Esa Laensitalo, Deere’s marketing director for global
tractors, visited a roughly 123,500-acre farm in Brazil’s Mato
Grosso region in January. Reviewing notes he scrawled in a
pocket-size journal, Laensitalo says the farmer had long used 11
tractors to pull 15-row planters. He now has three 8Rs pulling
30-row planters.  The latest version of the 8R was introduced last year.
Manufacturing began in the Waterloo foundry where Deere, unlike
some major rivals, makes its own metal tractor frames.
Executives say this is a competitive advantage because Deere’s
frames are constructed from “thin-wall castings,” pieces less
than half-an-inch thick.  Because these pieces are so thin, they can be bent, or
articulated, while remaining strong enough that the frame is
narrower between the tires. That helps the tractor make tighter
turns and maneuver better on roads. Deere executives like to
brag about the 8R making a figure-eight within the turning
radius of a rival machine.  Reconfigured Plant  Last year, Deere reconfigured the Waterloo tractor assembly
line to be less linear. Major modules -- engines and front axles
in the northeast corner of the plant, transmissions and rear
axles in the northwest -- are put together separately so that a
mistake in either area won’t halt assembly altogether. Cabs are
built in another area and dropped onto frames near the end of
the line. Deere says this has reduced the time it takes to move
a machine from frame to finished, lowering costs.  Near the south end of the factory, a queue of cab-less
tractors shuttles toward the paint shop, a steel-and-glass
tunnel the length of a football field where robots like giant
octopi spray the machines in Deere’s signature green. Humans in
bulky white protective suits add dabs of yellow to wheel wells.  “We can paint in any color,” factory manager Thad Nevitt
says. “But we don’t.”  Customer Options  Yet few 8Rs are identical, because the company offers a
vast array of options. Imagine sitting down at a Chrysler Group
LLC dealership and choosing among -- instead of two or three
option packages -- six different front axles, five
transmissions, 13 rear hitches, and 54 configurations of front
wheels and tires. Not to mention a menu of radio, mirror, cold-
weather start, and fender packages.  A farmer or dealer shopping for an 8R can flip through 358
option codes for the base tractor and an additional 114 codes
for attachments. The choices aren’t cheap: The most expensive of
the four lighting options, a 29-lamp array that creates virtual
daylight for farmers working at night, runs $3,442.  There are various versions of AutoTrac, the GPS-linked
system that lets the tractor do the driving itself, and of
JDLink, which allows farmers and dealers to monitor tractors
remotely.  Precision Farming  Used along with onboard sensors that track crop yields,
these tools can help a farmer decide, for instance, which parts
of a field need more or less fertilizer -- so-called precision
farming. And JDLink can save farmers money by using cellular
technology that alerts Deere dealers about equipment problems
before they become costly.  From March 2011 to March 2012, Deere says, customers
ordered more than 7,800 different configurations of the 8R. On
average, each configuration was built only 1.5 times. More than
half the 8Rs were built just once, for a single customer. Thus,
the global tractor: One size does not fit all, from Kansas to
Kazakhstan.  In Brazil, a lack of good roads and other infrastructure
can add as much as $3 to the cost of producing a bushel of
soybeans. So owners of large farms tend to focus on cost and
performance, as opposed to the higher-end options that U.S.
farmers crave, says Nevitt, who recently visited the country.
The Horitas especially liked the 8R’s ability to adjust the
level of horsepower depending on what the tractor is pulling,
which conserves fuel. Even the paint job impressed them.  Heated Mirrors  “There is no way you can have a product with so much
technology without a good finish,” Horita says.  Sometime last year, a shipment of 8Rs left Waterloo bound
for the Horita farm. A single machine probably would have cost
more than $200,000, but the Horitas got a deal because they
bought in bulk. Some tractors came with two tires on the front
and two pairs flanking the cab, with hundreds of pounds of
ballast bolted to the rims so the tires won’t slip in the sandy
soil. There was little need, however, for the heated side
mirrors a North Dakota grower might like.  From a twin-prop plane, the Bahia farmlands are a
checkerboard of green, gold, and brown ribboned by rivers and
red clay roads. The Horita farm stretches in all directions to
the horizon. Bahia and states to the west and north, along with
the more developed Mato Grosso further west, hold great
potential for feeding the world.  Dormitory Housing  Even now, only the U.S. and the European Union rank ahead
of Brazil in overall farm exports, says the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture . Brazil is the largest exporter of sugar, coffee,
orange juice, soybeans, and poultry.  “We all need Brazil,” says  David Nelson , a global
strategist for agricultural lender Rabobank International.
“Brazil is one of the few places where land can be put into
production.”  In the past decade the country has converted 32.5 million
acres from pasture to cropland, and Deere expects it to bring an
additional 49 million into production over the next 10 years.
While most farms remain small, newer ones in Bahia and bordering
states are so large and so far from towns that growers must
house and feed hired help. The Horitas maintain dormitory-style
housing, playgrounds, and soccer fields for hundreds of workers.  Deere entered Brazil by buying a 20 percent stake in a
local machinery maker in 1979. It bought the rest of that
company in 1999 and established John Deere Brazil. In the 2000s
its new cotton-pickers with automatic baling mechanisms became
big sellers. Only recently has its tractor business started to
take off. Agco’s tractor share in Brazil fell to 50 percent last
year from 64 percent in 2005 as Deere’s rose to 20 percent from
9 percent.  ‘Tougher Times’  “They are giving us some tougher times for sure,” says
Andre Carioba, Agco’s senior vice president and general manager
for  South America .  The Horitas’ dealer, Oliveira, says his business has more
than doubled, on average, each year since 2001. Last year he
counted revenue of nearly $180 million at five outlets and sold
441 tractors, up from 221 in 2010. At his dealership in the town
of Luis Eduardo Magalhaes, the burly, jovial Oliveira, who goes
by “Chico,” ushers visitors into a cavernous garage where
mechanics are working on two Deere tractors.  “If there is a broken machine, either we send another or
we take an engine from another machine and give them that,” he
says. This is where the Horitas’ new 8Rs arrived from Waterloo.  Soybean Crop  Deere had just posted $100 million in annual revenue for
the first time when Kitaru Horita and his family boarded a boat
from Japan to Brazil in 1938. They planned to farm, which was
apt, since their surname translates to “dig the land.” They
eventually bought property in Bahia. Their first soybean crop
yielded about 12 bushels per acre.  “Today, when we have below 55 bushels per acre, we are
sad, really,” says Walter Horita, Wilson’s 49-year-old brother
and Kitaru’s grandson.  The Horitas’ average yield is 180 bushels per acre of corn
and 57 bushels per acre of soybeans -- both higher than the
average 2012 U.S. yields forecast by the U.S. Department of
Agriculture. The Horitas expect revenue of $175 million this
year from their six Bahia farming units. They sell soybeans and
corn to Cargill Inc. and other processors; cotton goes to Asia.  Single Supplier  A whitewashed main building at one production unit sits
amid palm and ficus trees and looks like a resort hotel.
Eucalyptus windbreaks line a private airstrip where the Deere
plane landed. A black Mercedes-Benz SUV stands on a gravel
driveway, its tires striped red with the dust of the fields. A
few feet away gleams an 8270R tractor, all cleaned up for the
U.S. visitors.  Five years ago the Horitas’ fleet was dominated by Case
tractors. Like other Brazilians, the Horitas balked at buying
Deere because its prices were higher.  “Nobody wants to pay more,” says Paulo Herrmann, Deere’s
director of agricultural sales for  Latin America .  But “there’s a difference between price and value,”
Walter Horita says. “If you have a machine that can harvest
more hectares a day, you are reducing cost.”  At a trade show a few years ago, Herrmann offered Horita a
deal: If he tried a Deere sprayer and didn’t like it, Deere
would buy it back. A year later, Horita bought some tractors.
Then planters and more sprayers. The family has bought 62 8Rs
and will probably buy more.  Some growers might say it’s risky to depend on a single
supplier, that today’s friendly equipment dealer could someday
jack up prices. Horita says he’s not worried about Deere: “They
don’t want to lose a customer like us.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bryan Gruley in Chicago at 
 bgruley@bloomberg.net ;
Shruti Singh in Chicago at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jim Aley at 
 jaley@bloomberg.net  