-- Delaware Company to Pay $500,000 for Campaign Violations
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2012-07-05T19:09:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/delaware-company-to-pay-500-000-for-campaign-violations.html
Delaware ’s exclusive contractor for
 Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI)  products, N.K.S. Distributors, agreed to
pay $500,000 in lieu of criminal prosecution after being accused
of reimbursing employees for campaign contributions.  The New Castle-based distributor admitted no wrongdoing and
agreed to corporate governance reforms to guard against future
abuses, according to a non-prosecution agreement approved today
by Superior Court Judge Calvin L. Scott Jr. in Wilmington.  N.K.S., once headed by jailed felon  Christopher J. Tigani ,
is paying “so that it can continue as a going concern” and
“viable employer” of 127 workers in the state, according to
the agreement, brokered by E. Norman Veasey, a special
prosecutor and former Delaware Supreme Court chief justice.  “Defendant is in a very difficult financial condition, in
part as a result of Christopher Tigani’s acts,” according to
the agreement.  Tigani, 41, now incarcerated in the  Brooklyn , New York,
Metropolitan Detention Center, according to the  Federal Bureau
of Prisons , was sentenced March 6 to two years for breaking U.S.
tax and campaign-contribution laws and has filed for U.S.
Bankruptcy Court protection.  He admitted last year that he illegally reimbursed his
employees for contributions he ordered them to make in 2007. The
contributions included $70,400 to a presidential campaign
committee for Vice President  Joe Biden , then a senator from
Delaware, according to court filings.  State, County Offices  Today’s settlement involves reimbursed “contributions to
various candidates for state and county public office.” The
candidates weren’t named. Veasey said in an e-mailed statement
that he hopes to provide a complete report by early fall.  “We thank Independent Counsel Veasey for his service to
Delaware and look forward to his final report,”  Jason Miller , a
spokesman for Delaware Attorney General  Beau Biden , Joe Biden’s
son, said in an e-mailed statement.  The agreement concludes the investigation, and N.K.S.
employees “have taken steps necessary for the business to
succeed,” Timothy A. Donnelly, the current N.K.S. president and
chief executive officer, said in an e-mailed statement.  AB InBev wasn’t involved in the case. The company, based in
Leuven,  Belgium , fell 4 cents to 62.94 euros today in trading in
Brussels.  The federal criminal case is U.S. v. Tigani, 11-cr-42, U.S.
District Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington). Tigani’s
bankruptcy case is In re Christopher J. Tigani, 10-11855,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   pmilford@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  