-- Delek Drilling Tumbles as Clal Lowers Rating: Tel Aviv Mover
-- B y   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 2012-07-05T11:29:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/delek-drilling-tumbles-as-clal-lowers-rating-tel-aviv-mover.html
Delek Drilling-LP (DEDRL)  dropped to the
lowest in almost nine months after Clal Finance Brokerage Ltd.
lowered the rating on the oil and gas exploration company to
market perform from buy on corporate tax-rate concerns.  Delek Drilling  dropped  4.1 percent to 10.73 shekels, the
lowest level since Oct. 10, at 1:32 p.m. in Tel Aviv. The
recommendations on  Avner Oil Exploration LLP (AVNRL)  and  Isramco Negev 2
LP (ISRAL)  were also reduced to market perform from buy.  A series of natural gas discoveries off the country’s
shores has given Israel the opportunity to become a gas
exporter. The Tamar and Dalit gas fields are due to start output
next year and are big enough to supply the country with gas for
two decades. The larger Leviathan field holds more than the
U.K.’s reserves. Israel may need foreign investors to finance
the development of its natural-gas fields, Standard & Poor’s
Maalot said at a conference yesterday.  “There is uncertainty regarding the  tax rate  that
provident and pension funds will have to pay on gas partnership
profits,” Clal analyst Yaron Zer wrote in an e-mailed note
today. “As a result we believe it appropriate to value the gas
partnerships as if corporation tax is paid on their earnings.”  There are 12 Israeli oil and gas explorers structured as
limited partnerships as opposed to corporations, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The LP structure has made it difficult for the
partnerships to raise funds from foreign investors and as a
result some have begun work on turning themselves into
companies,” Zer wrote, a transition that would also impact
corporate tax rates.  Avner  fell  4.5 percent to 1.956 shekels, while Isramco
 decreased  3.1 percent to 0.442 shekel.  Ratio Oil Exploration
1992 LP (RATIL) , whose rating was lowered to underperform from market
perform,  dropped  5.8 percent to 0.262 shekel.  The share-price estimates for the companies are under
review, Clal said in an e-mailed statement today.  Delek Group Ltd. (DLEKG) , which has stakes in Delek Drilling and
Avner, dropped 2.5 percent to 568.7 shekels.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shoshanna Solomon in  Tel Aviv  at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  