-- Denmark Cuts Rates to Record Lows as Zero Threshold Breached
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2012-07-05T14:38:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/denmark-cuts-rates-to-record-lows-as-zero-threshold-breached.html
Denmark’s central bank cut its main
borrowing costs to record lows and brought the rate it offers on
certificates of deposit below zero, as policy makers test
uncharted territory to fight a capital influx.  The  benchmark lending rate  was cut to 0.2 percent from 0.45
percent, while the deposit rate was reduced to minus 0.2 percent
from 0.05 percent, Copenhagen-based Nationalbanken said in a
statement today. The move followed a quarter of a percentage
point cut in the  European Central Bank ’s main rate to 0.75
percent. Nationalbanken doesn’t hold scheduled meetings and only
adjusts rates to defend the krone’s peg to the euro.  “There’s no experience of how negative deposit rates will
affect the financial markets and the krone,” Jacob Graven,
chief economist at Sydbank A/S, said in a phone interview today
before the decision was announced. “It’s a sign of the strong
Danish economy. This is good. The opposite situation would be
far worse, if the central bank would have to hike rates to
defend the krone. We have a luxury problem.”  Denmark has stepped up its battle to prevent the krone from
strengthening beyond its currency band as the nation’s haven
status attracts investors.  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE) , the country’s
biggest lender, said last week it now has a risk scenario that
envisages  Denmark  abandoning the peg should the cost of fighting
currency appreciation grow too high. The bank doesn’t view this
as a likely outcome, it said.  ‘Absurd Scenario’  Negative rates were “until recently an absurd scenario,”
said Christian H. Heinig, an economist at Realkredit Danmark
A/S, the mortgage unit of Danske Bank. “Mortgage loan rates are
already at record lows, and today’s rate announcement won’t have
more than a limited effect here.”  The rate cut sent the krone to its weakest level since
April 16 at 7.4427 against the euro. The currency was trading at
7.4396 as of 4:26 p.m. local time, compared with 7.4367
yesterday, according to prices available on Bloomberg.  Denmark has an agreement with the ECB to let the krone
swing no more than 2.25 percent from central rate of 7.46038,
though it maintains a tighter band in practice. Denmark’s
 foreign reserves  climbed to a record high in June after the
central bank tapped the  currency market  to weaken the krone.
Reserves rose by 9.2 billion kroner last month to 511.6 billion
kroner ($85 billion), the central bank said on July 3.  House Bubble  The central bank’s battle to curb the krone risks
undermining a recovery in the banking industry from a burst real
estate bubble. Low  interest rates  are making it “increasingly
difficult, if not impossible” for banks to earn money on
deposits, Thomas Hovard, head of credit research at Danske Bank
A/S, said before the rate cut.  Denmark’s banks, which had 186 billion kroner in deposits
at the central bank as of yesterday, are struggling to emerge
from a burst real estate bubble that has sent  house prices 
plunging 25 percent since their 2007 peak. More than a dozen
banks have failed since then and two thirds of the country’s
regional lenders reported losses last year, leaving the industry
reluctant to withdraw funds from safe central bank accounts and
channel them into the economy.  The central bank on July 3 issued two-year notes at a
negative yield for the second time in as many weeks as investors
gave up returns for the safety of the Nordic country’s AAA
rating. Denmark is among the dozen countries that still maintain
top grades at  Fitch Ratings , Moody’s Investors Service, and
 Standard & Poor’s .  Debt Sales  The central bank’s debt management department, which
handles bond issuance on behalf of the government, last month
raised its 2012 debt sale target by 33 percent to 100 billion
kroner to take advantage of falling yields.  Mortgage rates  have also fallen to record lows. That’s
failed to revive the housing market and prices hit a seven-year
low in the first quarter as properties stayed on the market for
a record number of days, the Association of Danish Mortgage
Banks said June 20.  The government in May cut its budget deficit estimate for
this year, and said the shortfall will shrink to 1.7 percent of
gross domestic product next year, within the European Union’s 3
percent threshold.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  