-- Deutsche Bank, Anschutz End Auction-Rate Securities Suit
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-07-05T22:51:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/deutsche-bank-anschutz-end-auction-rate-securities-suit.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  settled claims
brought by Anschutz Corp. alleging the bank manipulated the
market for auction-rate securities.  U.S. District Judge Susan Illston in San Francisco
dismissed the claims against Deutsche Bank as well as those
against Fitch Inc. and  Fitch Ratings  Ltd., as the companies
requested. Terms of the settlement weren’t disclosed in the
court order posted today on its online docket.  Banks running periodic auctions abandoned the $330 billion
market for the securities in 2008 amid the fallout from the
subprime market slump. Investors were stuck with the products.
Denver-based Anschutz claimed it bought $59 million of the
securities in 2006 and 2007, thinking they were safe and liquid,
and was unable to sell them.  Illston last year denied a request to dismiss the claims
against Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank’s Deutsche Bank Securities
unit and  Standard & Poor’s , another defendant.  Anschutz, controlled by Colorado billionaire Philip F. Anschutz, said in a 2009 lawsuit that Deutsche Bank and Bank of
America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch, the claims against which were
sent to New York, deceived investors about the risks of the
securities and that the ratings services erroneously promoted
the products as safe by giving them high credit ratings.  Jim Monaghan, a spokesman for Anschutz, declined to comment
on the settlement and said the claims against Standard & Poor’s
are still pending. Sigalit Grego, a spokeswoman for Deutsche
Bank, declined to comment, and Sandro Scenga, a spokesman for
Fitch Ratings, had no immediate comment.  The case is Anschutz v. Merrill Lynch, 09-3780, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of California ( San Francisco .)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles 
at   epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 