-- Di Modica’s Bull Statue Placed Near Amsterdam’s Exchange
-- B y   M a r t i j n   v a n   d e r   S t a r r e
-- 2012-07-05T16:11:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/di-modica-s-bull-statue-placed-in-front-of-amsterdam-exchange.html
A bronze statue of a bull by sculptor
Arturo Di Modica, similar to his work near the New York Stock
Exchange, was placed in front of  NYSE Euronext (NYX) ’s Amsterdam
bourse overnight as an antidote to  Europe ’s debt crisis.  “Europe is in an economic crisis. Think positive! Together
we will go up!” read leaflets handed out at the square in front
of the bourse by Jan-Willem Loor, a spokesman for Di Modica.  Di Modica, 71, placed his 3.5 ton ’‘Charging Bull” in  New
York City  on Broad Street on Dec. 15, 1989, and saw the
sculpture as the perfect response to the Wall Street crash,
according to his  website . The work was removed the same day and
is now located at the intersections of Broadway and Morris
Street.  “It would be good for everybody in Europe to have some
kind of kick from the mascot,” Di Modica said in an interview
with Bloomberg News today. “I would prefer it to stay here,
like in  New York , near the stock market,” he said.  Di Modica, who made the sculpture in  Wyoming , shipped it to
Sicily and then moved it by truck to Amsterdam, said it took 10
minutes to put the 2.5-ton bull in front of the exchange, using
a crane.  The sculpture in Amsterdam was brought to the city with the
support of a Dutch family, said Loor, adding Di Modica wants to
symbolically donate the bronze bull.  The family saw the bull in New York and loved it, Di Modica
said.  Muse highlights include  Scott Reyburn  on the auction
market,  Jorg von Uthmann  on Paris art,  Warwick Thompson  on
London theater and  Jason Harper  on cars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Martijn van der Starre in Amsterdam at 
 vanderstarre@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 