-- Draghi Move to Zero Rates Fuels Talk of QE in ECB Armory
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o c k e t t   a n d   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2012-07-06T10:07:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/draghi-move-to-zero-rates-fuels-talk-of-qe-in-ecb-armory.html
The  European Central Bank ’s step into
the world of zero  interest rates  is fueling speculation it may
eventually be forced to follow the  Federal Reserve  and the  Bank
of England  with large-scale asset purchases.  The ECB yesterday reduced its  benchmark rate  to a record
low of 0.75 percent and took its deposit rate to zero, with
President  Mario Draghi  saying the cuts may have only a “muted”
economic impact. While deflecting questions about further
measures such as quantitative easing, Draghi said “there is no
feeling that we are running short of policy options” and “we
still have all our artillery ready to contain inflationary
risks” in either direction.  “They have practically exhausted their conventional
armory,” said  Julian Callow , chief European economist at
 Barclay Plc (BARC)  in London. “Cutting the deposit rate to zero has
practically brought them to the door of QE, even though that is
not what they may have intended.”  The ECB’s rate cuts came within 45 minutes of  China 
lowering borrowing costs and the Bank of  England  restarting its
asset purchases, adding to a new round of global monetary
stimulus. With  Europe ’s debt crisis curbing growth across the
continent and damping the outlook for the world economy, the ECB
was under pressure to ease policy even though Draghi last month
voiced misgivings about the effectiveness of a rate reduction.  ‘Muted’ Impact  “It’s clear that when demand is weak, the transmission of
price signals to the aggregated economy is muted,” Draghi said.
The rate cuts will reduce the cost of the more than 1 trillion
euros ($1.24 trillion) in ECB loans to banks, he said.  The euro fell more than a cent to a one-month low after
Draghi spoke and traded at $1.2375 at noon in Frankfurt today.
European stocks declined. The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP) , which
closed 0.2 percent lower yesterday, fell a further 0.2 percent
today.  Unlike the Fed and the Bank of England, the ECB has never
engaged in QE. When it bought  government bonds  in its
comparatively modest program, it sterilized the purchases to
avoid fueling inflation. That measure was shelved earlier this
year, and Dutch council member Klaas Knot said in a magazine
interview published this week that it will remain “fast
asleep.”  ‘There Are Limits’  Some ECB policy makers opposed the purchases, arguing they
blur the line between monetary and fiscal policy by reducing
borrowing costs for specific governments. If the ECB were to
engage in QE to expand its balance sheet and swell the  money
supply , it would likely involve buying a wider range of assets
across all euro-area debt markets.  “There are limits to what we can do,” ECB Executive Board
member Joerg Asmussen said in a speech in Brussels today.
“There should be no illusion that the ECB can single-handedly
ensure a plain sailing for our economies and the markets. The
ECB cannot compensate for what others -- notably political
authorities -- fail to do.”  Draghi said there was “no discussion of further
unconventional measures” at yesterday’s policy meeting. “I
can’t see that there are measures that are effective in a highly
fragmented market,” he said.  Yields on Spanish 10-year bonds, which fell after euro-area
governments last week took steps toward a closer economic union,
jumped more than 30 basis points to 6.77 percent as Draghi spoke
and rose to 6.98 percent today. The Italian equivalent increased
to 6.05 percent. That compares with 10-year borrowing costs of
1.37 percent for  Germany .  ‘Disappointing Response’  “The euro area is sliding deeper into recession, the bond
markets are panicking again, but the ECB feels no particular
urgency to act,” said Marchel Alexandrovich, an economist at
Jefferies International Ltd. in  London . “A further cut in the
main refinancing rate seems likely next month, but overall,
another disappointing response from the ECB.”  By cutting its deposit rate to zero, the ECB may encourage
banks to lend to other institutions, companies or households
instead of parking excess cash in its  overnight deposit
facility . About 800 billion euros is currently being deposited
with the ECB each day.  Still, “it is difficult to foresee what banks will do,”
Draghi said. “I don’t expect banks’ behavior to change
dramatically in any way.”  Recession Looms  Latest data suggest the euro economy is heading for a
recession. Unemployment rose to a record 11.1 percent in May,
economic confidence slumped to the lowest in more than 2 1/2
years in June, and services and manufacturing output contracted
for a fifth month. The 17-nation economy will shrink 0.3 percent
this year, according to the European Commission.  “We still expect a gradual, slow recovery around the end
of the year,” Draghi said. “The baseline scenario hasn’t
changed, although the downside risks are now materializing.”
Inflation may drop below the ECB’s 2 percent before the end of
the year, sooner than previously expected, he said.  ABN Amro economists said in a note to clients that
speculation may now build on a QE program. Elwin de Groot,
senior market economist at Rabobank Nederland in Utrecht,
suggested that such a policy is a logical possibility in a
worsening economic environment if the inflation rate does fall
faster than the ECB forecasts.  “With its conventional toolbox largely exhausted, this
raises the question what the ECB would do if it were suddenly to
see downside risks to inflation in future,” said de Groot. “It
surely must be some form of QE then.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Brockett in  Frankfurt  at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net ;
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  