-- Draghi Says Rate Cuts May Have ‘Muted’ Impact on Economy
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2012-07-05T14:54:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/draghi-says-rate-cuts-may-have-muted-impact-on-economy.html
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said today’s cut in  interest rates  to a record low may
have only a limited impact on the euro-area economy as it slides
toward recession.  “It’s clear that when demand is weak the transmission of
price signals to the aggregated economy is muted,” Draghi said
at a press conference in Frankfurt after lowering the  benchmark 
and deposit rates by 25 basis points to 0.75 percent and zero
respectively. The cuts will reduce the cost of central bank
loans for struggling banks, Draghi said.  China also lowered rates today and the  Bank of England 
restarted its asset purchases, adding to a new round of global
monetary stimulus. With  Europe ’s debt crisis curbing growth
across the continent and damping the outlook for the world
economy, the ECB was under pressure to ease monetary conditions,
even though Draghi last month voiced misgivings about the
effectiveness of a rate reduction.  “The impact of today’s decision on the euro area will not
be large” and “there is now little left for the ECB to do in
terms of lowering interest rates,” said  Julian Callow , chief
European economist at Barclay’s Capital in  London . “If the
economy does not turn around during the second half, the
Governing Council will have to address the case for outright
large-scale asset purchases.”  Stocks Drop  The euro fell more than half a cent to a one-month low and
traded at $1.2381 at 4:40 p.m. in Frankfurt. European stocks
declined. The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  fell 0.3 percent after
earlier rallying as much as 0.8 percent.  Germany ’s DAX Index was
down 0.4 percent.  The 17-nation euro economy is heading for recession.
Unemployment rose to a record 11.1 percent in May, economic
confidence slumped to the lowest in more than 2 1/2 years in
June, and data yesterday confirmed that services and
manufacturing output contracted for a fifth month. The economy
will shrink 0.3 percent this year, according to the European
Commission.  “We still expect a gradual, slow recovery around the end
of the year,” Draghi said. “The baseline scenario hasn’t
changed, although the downside risks are now materializing.”
Inflation may drop below the ECB’s 2 percent before the end of
the year, sooner than previously expected, he said.  Third Cut  Today’s rate cut, predicted by 49 of 64 economists in a
Bloomberg News  survey , is the first since December and the third
since Draghi took office on Nov. 1. Twelve of 22 forecasters in
another survey predicted the ECB would lower the deposit rate to
zero.  Cutting the benchmark rate will reduce the cost of ECB
loans. The ECB has lent banks more than 1 trillion euros ($1.24
trillion) for three years in its so-called Longer Term
Refinancing Operations, with the interest determined by the
average of the benchmark rate over the period of the loans.  The deposit-rate move may encourage banks to lend to other
institutions, companies or households instead of parking excess
cash in the ECB’s  overnight deposit facility . About 800 billion
euros is currently being deposited with the ECB each day.  “It is difficult to foresee what banks will do,” Draghi
said. “I don’t expect banks’ behavior to change dramatically in
any way.”  The deposit rate has steered market borrowing costs since
the ECB started to provide banks with unlimited liquidity after
the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008. That
policy removed the need for banks to lend to each other to meet
their  reserve requirements , pushing down interest rates. Today’s
cut may therefore lower the euro overnight index average, or
Eonia, which currently stands at 0.33 percent.  What Next?  “The ECB’s decision effectively implements a zero-rate
policy in the euro zone,” ABN Amro economists wrote in a note
to clients. “Speculation may build that the central bank will
follow” the  Federal Reserve  and the Bank of  England  “with a
quantitative easing program.”  Central Banks around the globe are easing policy in
response to Europe’s debt crisis, which has pushed at least
seven euro nations into recession and forced five of them to
seek bailouts.  The Bank of England, which has been drawn into the scandal
over Barclays Plc’s rigging of Libor rates, today raised its
target for bond purchases by 50 billion pounds ($78 billion) to
375 billion pounds. China cut rates today and the U.S. and
Australian central banks eased monetary policy last month.  No Coordination  Draghi said there was no ECB coordination with the Bank of
England or People’s Bank of  China  on today’s policy decisions
“beyond the normal exchange of views.”  In Europe, bond and equity markets rallied last week after
euro-area leaders opened the way to recapitalizing banks
directly with bailout funds once a single banking supervisor is
established. They also dropped the requirement that taxpayers
get preferred creditor status on aid to  Spain ’s crippled
lenders.  Yields on Spanish 10-year bonds fell to 6.25 percent
yesterday from 6.94 percent on June 28. They rose to 6.77
percent after Draghi’s press conference, and the Italian
equivalent jumped to 5.96 percent.  “Although the euro zone is the epicentre of the current
global uncertainties, the ECB is still reacting less forcefully
to the European risks than many other central banks,” said
 Holger Schmieding , chief economist at Berenberg Bank in London.  ‘Cycle of Fear’  “The ECB neither announced new liquidity initiatives nor
dropped any hint that it may intervene again in sovereign bond
markets to break the cycle of fear that is engulfing Spain and
 Italy ,” Schmieding said.  Asked if the ECB may implement more non-standard measures,
Draghi said: “I can’t see that there are measures that are
effective in a highly fragmented market.”  Today’s ECB easing “amounts to little more than a tweaking
at the edges as far as the euro zone’s ailing peripheral
economies are concerned,” said Nicholas Spiro, head of Spiro
Sovereign Strategy in London. “The most salutary effect of the
ECB’s rate cuts lies in its impact on the single currency
itself. A weaker euro is just what the doctor ordered to help
the sickly euro-zone economy in the absence of bolder measures
to help stimulate activity.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Black in  Frankfurt  at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  