-- Draghi Says Risks to Euro-Area Economic Outlook on Downside
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2012-07-05T13:44:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/draghi-says-risks-to-euro-area-economic-outlook-are-on-downside.html
European Central Bank President Mario Draghi comments on monetary policy and the euro-area’s
sovereign-debt crisis.  He made the remarks at a press conference in Frankfurt
today after the ECB cut  interest rates  to a record-low 0.75
percent from 1 percent.  On monetary policy:  “Inflationary pressure over the policy relevant horizon
have been damped further. The underlying pace of monetary
expansion remains subdued.  Some ‘‘downside risks to the euro-area economic outlook
have materialized. The downside risks also relate to possibly
renewed pressures on energy prices. The main downside risks
relate to weaker-than-expected economic activity.  ‘‘The lowering of the short-term and the lowering of the
rate on deposit facility have several effects. The immediate
effect on pricing on 1 trillion euros.’’ Another effect ‘‘has to
do more with expectations more generally with bringing the
deposit rate to zero.  ‘‘When we were discussing it a month ago, we couldn’t say
we had the same picture for the whole euro area as we have it
today. Now we can generally say this measure is addressed to the
whole of the euro area.  ‘‘The reason why this price signal has a more powerful
effect than before is that it has been accompanied by a
reduction in the rate on the deposit facility. There wasn’t any
communication beyond the normal exchange of views.  ‘‘What we said is that downside risks are materializing for
the economic outlook and this would damp price behavior for the
medium term.  ‘‘The third effect’’ of the rate cut ‘‘has to do more with
expectations more generally by having moved to zero the rate on
the deposit facility. Expectations of further easing of monetary
policy in case price stability considerations were to warrant
it. This by itself has a positive effect, a stimulus effect.  ‘‘The idea that the ECB could channel funds through the
bank lending channel to a specific category of firms or
households, is as wrong as the idea that the ECB should make
sure the banks don’t buy  government bonds  otherwise its
government financing. We have to remember that their decisions
are basically business decisions.  ‘‘We broadened the eligibility rules of collateral so as to
attract the broadest number of banks. We broadened the
collateral eligibility so that banks can actually use the assets
they create in lending to the real economy in lending by the
ECB. The risk for the ECB balance sheet is very, very low.  ‘‘Our mandate is the pursuit of price stability in the
medium term. We will use any tool within that mandate. We stand
ready and we are very, very aware that this is an essential
requirement that comes together with more powers, even more so
us being an non-elected institution.  ‘‘We are awaiting from the euro group, the commission, the
parliament, for the citizens of the union how we can comply with
being even more democratically accountable than in the past.’’  Today’s decision to cut the interest rate ‘‘was unanimous
on all grounds and this by itself carries a special strength to
this decision. There are no really divergent views on the
governing council, on the principles the governing council is
absolutely compact.’’ Regarding the supervisory mandate, ‘‘We
are working together to find the right parameter for this.  ‘‘One of the reasons we took the decision we took today is
we don’t see risks for inflationary expectations, on either
side, certainly not on the upside in the short or medium term.
That has a lot to do with the weakening of the economy. The rest
of the economy doesn’t seem to be inclined to generate upward
pressures on inflation. It does show that a process that was
considered fair and pivotal for the functioning of financial
markets wasn’t fair.’’  On inflation:  ‘‘Inflation expectations continue to be anchored.  ‘‘On the basis of current futures prices for oil, inflation
rates should decline further in the course of 2012 and be again
below 2 percent in 2013. In an environment of modest growth in
the euro area, underlying price pressures should remain
moderate.  ‘‘Risks to price developments should be broadly balanced.  ‘‘Price developments should remain in line with price
stability over the medium term.  ‘‘People are reading too much into this. Whenever the bank
pursues the objective of price stability in the medium term,
that has a positive efect on the economy.’’  On deflation:  ‘‘Let’s define, what is deflation. Deflation is a
protracted and generalized fall in the price level. So
protracted and strong and so general that it would disanchor
inflation expectations. It has to be generalized across
countries, and products and sectors, we see no sign of this in
any country.  ‘‘We have to distinguish between movements in the price
level and movements in some prices. What happens if everyone
needs it? It’s a big question.’’  On growth:  ‘‘Economic growth in the euro area continues to remain weak
with heightened uncertainty weighing on both confidence and
sentiment. We maintain our full capacity to ensure medium-term
price stability.  ‘‘Indications for the second quarter of 2012 point to a
renewed weakening of economic growth and heightened uncertainty.
We expect the euro-area economy to recover gradually although
with momentum damped by a number of factors, in particular
tensions in a number of euro-area sovereign-debt markets. Risks
surrounding the economic outlook for the euro area continue to
be on the downside.’’  The potential exists for a ‘‘spillover to the euro-area
real economy.’’  Regarding 2009, ‘‘We are not there at all. Growth is
hovering around zero. We still expect a gradual, slow recovery
around the end of the year. The baseline scenario of the ECB
hasn’t changed, although the downside risks are now
materializing.  ‘‘We shouldn’t forget that nominal are very, very low and
real rates are negative. And certainly the expectations of a
recovery is based on an improvement of general sentiment and an
abating of the sovereign-debt crisis.’’  On European leaders’ summit:  ‘‘We welcome the European Council conclusions of June 29.
We agree that economic and monetary union needs to be put on a
more sustainable basis for the future. We welcome the decision
to develop a specific time-bound road map for the achievements
of a genuine economic and monetary union.  ‘‘The ECB is ready to serve as an agent of the EFSF and ESM
in conducting market operations.  ‘‘The European Council, with the decision on banking
supervision, has made a very very important step toward the
creation of a financial market union. The leaders have committed
substantial political capital into this decision. This is the
competence of the commission.  ‘‘The proposal will be as strong as the commitment the
leaders have placed in making this decision. Whatever the
proposal is going to be, the ECB should be placed in a way to
carry out the future tasks in an effective, rigorous and
independent way without risks to its reputation.  ‘‘Any new tasks in the supervisory area should be
rigorously separated from monetary policy. We will certainly
find ways to ensure that this is so. The ECB should remain
independent in carrying out this task. We will work with the
national supervisors; this is very important, this is essential.  ‘‘I have been a supervisor for six years. I know only too
well that the knowledge the competence the skills and the
tradition are at a national level. New tasks will imply a higher
level of democratic eligibility. We are basically all unanimous
about the principles. We stand ready to higher standards of
democratic legitimacy.  ‘‘How big is enough? We know what we have, and so we have
to make it do. Right now I think the ESM and the EFSF with the
new modalities are enough, adequate to cope with the risk, the
contingencies we can envisage now.  ‘‘We are certainly supporting the euro-area economy with
the achievement of price stability over the medium term.  ‘‘We want to behave with the limits of the mandate. I don’t
think there’s anything to be gained by asking an institution to
destroy its credibility by acting outside its mandate.’’  On credit flows:  ‘‘A few months have passed and we see that credit flows
remain weak. The second reason is that this lack of transmission
and further enhancement of credit flows is not the same in all
countries. There are countries like  France  where credit flows
are moderately sustainable, and there are others where credit
growth is decreasing, so the transmission mechanism is also
linked to national factors.  ‘‘Credit is now led dominantly by demand. In a highly
fragmented economy, price changes have a more limited effect
than selected quantity changes.’’  On banks and collateral:  ‘‘The situation on collateral changes country by country.
We have several countries that have nowadays plenty of funding,
so they need less collateral. There are some local situations
where they are short of collateral and they need funding. You
can see where the funding strains in  Europe , and then in one
country, and you can imagine they need collateral.  ‘‘In a highly fragmented situation, they only have to go to
the ECB. The ECB will keep all liquidity lines alive to solvent
banks and the ECB will provide them with all they need if they
are solvent.  ‘‘We don’t precommit. We think the collateral framework
needs to be revisited. It’s not something we can come out with
soon because it is highly complicateed. We should present again
a well-thought-out, organized collateral framework. It’s clear
that when demand is weak, the transmission of price signals to
the aggregated economy is muted. It should make entrepreneurs
think their tradeoffs are better.  ‘‘Very much of this depends on demand for credit. It’s a
Ralph Atkins Mini Me!’’  On Libor:  ‘‘Libor is an inquiry that’s unfolding as we are speaking
today it does show that a process considered fair and pivotal
for the functioning of financial markets was not fair. A lot of
action ought to be undertaken to improve the governance of this
process.  ‘‘It’s quite clear the governance at these two levels was
weak, if not faulty. I don’t know what the ECB would have done.
but I hope it would have done better.’’  On non-standard measures:  ‘‘We didn’t discuss any other non-standard measures Because
we had to have non-standard measures which are effective. I’ll
also tell you why: we have to have non-standard measures which
are effective. They have to be effective in an area that is
fragmented.  ‘‘I would say this point in time we are not really
elaborate thinking on various non-standard situations in which
we may find ourselves. There is not such a feeling we are
running low on policy options. We still have all our artillery
to contain inflation risks.  ‘‘When I say pursue the objective of price stability, I
mean in both directions. I don’t think I want to elaborate on
further non-standard measures.’’  On outflows:  ‘‘We have not seen signs of outflows from the euro area.
This is quite important. One of the reasons that euro summit has
been a success is that leaders showed this is a monetary union
that’s meant to last. ’’  On m3 money supply and banks:  ‘‘The increase in the annual growth rate of m3 to 2.9
percent in May mainly reflected a reversal of the outflows in
April of overnight deposits.’’ There are ‘‘negative monthly loan
flows to non-financial corporations. To a large extent this
reflects the current cyclical situation and ongoing  risk
aversion .  ‘‘It essential for banks to continue to strengthen their
resilience where needed.’’  On Ireland:  ‘‘Ireland is a member country that through extraordianry
efforts has run a program which is on track so much that Ireland
returned to the market today, much earlier than anyone expected
even two or three months ago. This must be a success which
should be properly celebrated. It is so important that an event
like this that are making the financial environment today a
little less tense than it was a month ago.’’  On ECB staff, resources:  ‘‘We are all especially impressed by the extraordinary
commitment that our staff show every day. It’s not a surprise
that they see themselves as overworked. In the undertaking of
tasks that have become more numerous, difficult and
psychologically hard.  ‘‘Executive board have discussed increasing the resources
of ECB in a very moderate way. We don’t have a date here because
the final proposal is a commission proposal.  ‘‘I am sure it will be done as speedily as possible. I
would not dramatize too much the need for doing things fast. It
is important that things are done well. It’s not going to be a
drama if it is two or three months late. Everything is subject
to conditionality. Conditionality is what gives credibility to
these measures.’’  On banks:  ‘‘It is difficult to foresee what banks will do. I don’t
expect banks’ behavior to change dramatically in any way. Banks
could have an incentive to return what they have in the deposit
facility earlier if they were sure that they don’t need that
liqudiity any time soon. How this is going to affect their
business decisions, it’s very hard to predict. We haven’t
discussed this and we don’t precommit to any further measure, as
usual. We don’t think we are in that situation.  ‘‘This point in time we are not really elaborate, thinking
on various non-standard situations in which we might find
ourselves.’’  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in  Frankfurt  at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  