-- Draghi Says ECB Supervisory Must Not Endanger Indepence
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2012-07-05T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/draghi-says-ecb-supervisory-role-must-not-endanger-independence.html
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said any future role the institution might play in
supervising euro-area banks must not endanger its independence.  “The European Council, with the decision on unified
banking supervision in the euro area, has made a very, very
important step toward the creation of what one would call a
financial markets union,” Draghi said at the ECB’s monthly
press conference in Frankfurt yesterday. “Whatever the proposal
is going to be, the ECB should be placed in a way to carry out
the future tasks in an effective, rigorous and independent way -
- without risks for its reputation.”  Europe ’s political leaders, meeting in Brussels last week,
 agreed  to design a blueprint for the future of monetary union by
the end of the year that could include better controls on
national budgets and moves toward joint borrowing as well as
centralized bank oversight in which the ECB would play a role.
The treaty governing the euro already foresees the ECB
supervising banks, should all members of the area agree.  “Any new tasks in the supervisory area should be
rigorously separated from monetary policy tasks,” Draghi said.
“There should be no contamination between the two areas and
we’ll certainly find ways to make sure that this is so.”  Draghi said the ECB’s Governing Council started discussions
about the future role, which would imply higher levels of
democratic accountability, and that it is “essential” that
national regulators form part of the supervisory structure.  “I myself have been a supervisor for six years, being the
governor of Banca d’Italia, where supervision is within the
bank,” Draghi said. “So I know only too well that the
knowledge, the skills, the competence, the history, and the
traditions are at national level.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in  Frankfurt  at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  