-- Draghi Faults Libor in Hope ECB Would Have Done Better
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2012-07-06T15:08:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/draghi-faults-libor-regime-in-hope-ecb-would-have-done-better.html
(Corrects date of fine in third paragraph in story
published yesterday. See EXT2 for more Barclays coverage.)  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said the scandal over rigged interest rates shows
evidence of “faulty” management, and suggested his institution
might have done a better job of it.  “It does show that a process that was considered fair and
pivotal for the functioning of financial markets was not fair,”
Draghi said at a briefing in Frankfurt today, commenting on
 Barclay Plc (BARC) ’s admission that it manipulated the London interbank
offered rate. “Frankly, I don’t know what the ECB would have
done, but I hope we would have done better.”  Draghi’s remarks underscore concern that Libor, the
benchmark for more than $360 trillion of global securities, has
stopped being an accurate reflection of banks’ borrowing costs.
Barclays, the U.K.’s second-largest bank by assets, was fined a
record 290 million pounds ($453 million) on June 27 for rigging
the Libor, a global benchmark, as well as Euribor, its
equivalent in euros, starting as early as 2005.  “A lot of action ought to be undertaken to improve the
governance of this process at both levels -- the level that
contributes to the figures and the data, and the level that
produces the benchmark,” Draghi said. “It’s quite clear that
governance at these two levels was weak, if not faulty.”  Regulators are continuing inquiries into the manipulations.
 Bank of America  Corp.,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc  and  UBS AG (UBSN)  are among lenders who also under
investigation.  The ECB today lowered its benchmark  interest rate  by 25
basis points to 0.75 percent, a fresh record, to bolster the
euro-area economy and stimulate lending. The  Bank of England ,
which has been drawn into the Libor scandal, raised its target
for bond purchases by 50 billion pounds to 375 billion pounds.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  