-- Dubai’s Stocks Complete Biggest Weekly Gain Since March on Emaar
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2012-07-05T10:50:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/dubai-s-stocks-complete-biggest-weekly-gain-since-march-on-emaar.html
Dubai’s benchmark stock index
completed the biggest weekly gain since March on optimism  Emaar
Properties PJSC (EMAAR) ’s unit will benefit from  Saudi Arabia ’s approval
of a mortgage law and second-quarter earnings will double.  Emaar, developer of the world’s tallest skyscraper, rallied
1.7 percent today, taking this week’s gain to 10 percent.  Gulf
General Investment Co. (GGICO) , which signed restructuring agreements
this week with its lenders, advanced 7.8 percent. The  DFM
General Index (DFMGI)  climbed 1 percent to 1,504.70 at the close in the
emirate, the highest since May 10. The measure gained to 3.6
percent this week, the most since the five days ended March 15.
The  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index (BGCC200)  rose 0.1 percent today. Oman’s  MSM30
Index (MSM30)  snapped a four-day decline, gaining 0.4 percent.  Saudi Arabia (SABIC)  this week said its cabinet approved the
kingdom’s first mortgage law, which will overhaul the home-
financing market. Emaar, which with other investors manages
Jeddah-based real-estate consortium  Emaar Economic City (EMAAR) , said
the legislation “will energize the property sector of the
kingdom by increasing the affordability of real estate units.”  The market’s rally this week was driven by Emaar “as the
Saudi news boosted prospects,” said Waleed Al Khateeb, the
senior finance manager at Daman Securities LLC in Dubai. “There
are also positive expectations for the company’s second-quarter
results.”  Earnings Boost  The Saudi legislation stipulates regulations to establish
mortgage companies and their activities. The kingdom’s mortgage
market is the least developed among the six Gulf Cooperation
Council states,  CBRE Group Inc. (CBG)  said in March. The move could
potentially encourage banks to offer home financing to a wider
segment of the population. Emaar Economic surged 12 percent this
week and closed at 9.75 riyals yesterday.  Emaar Properties rose to 3.08 dirhams today. The company’s
 second-quarter net income  may  more than double  to 503 million
dirhams ($137 million), according to the median estimate of
three analysts compiled on Bloomberg. The company with the
 biggest weighting  on Dubai’s index has been making a push to get
more revenue from abroad. Its operations in Turkey, Pakistan,
Egypt, Syria and Saudi Arabia contributed 22 percent to  fourth-
quarter revenue,  up from 8 percent a year earlier.  Gulf General rose to 34.7 fils today, taking its advance
this week to 2.4 percent.  About 80  million shares  were traded in Dubai today,
compared with the 12-month daily average of 137 million shares.  Elsewhere in the Persian Gulf,  Abu Dhabi ’s  ADX General
Index (ADSMI) , Bahrain’s  BB All Share Index (BHSEASI)  and  Kuwait’s Stock Exchange
Price Index (KWSEIDX)  were little changed. Qatar’s QE Index gained 0.2
percent. Saudi Arabia’s market was closed for the weekend.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  