-- ECB Cuts Main Rate to Record Low, Deposit Rate to Zero
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2012-07-05T13:09:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/ecb-cuts-benchmark-rate-to-record-low-of-0-75-deposit-to-zero.html
The  European Central Bank  cut
interest rates to a record low and said it won’t pay anything on
overnight deposits as the sovereign debt crisis threatens to
drive the euro region into recession.  Some “downside risks to the euro-area economic outlook
have materialized,” ECB President  Mario Draghi  said at a press
conference in  Frankfurt  after lowering the  main refinancing rate 
and the deposit rate by 25 basis points to 0.75 percent and zero
respectively. “Economic growth in the euro area continues to
remain weak with heightened uncertainty weighing on both
confidence and sentiment,” Draghi said.  With  Europe ’s debt crisis curbing growth across the
continent and damping the global outlook, the ECB was under
pressure to ease monetary conditions, even though Draghi last
month voiced misgivings about the effectiveness of a rate
reduction. While today’s moves may not stimulate demand, they
will lower borrowing costs for struggling banks and could build
on the confidence boost euro-area governments delivered last
week when they took steps toward a deeper economic union.  ‘New Territory’  “The benchmark rate doesn’t really matter at the moment,
but cutting the deposit rate all the way to zero takes the ECB
into new territory,” said  James Nixon , chief European economist
at Societe Generale SA in London. “If you can kick-start the
money market you go a long way to addressing some of the funding
problems that banks face. That may free banks to lend to the
economy.”  Today’s rate cut, predicted by 49 of 64 economists in a
Bloomberg News  survey , is the first since December and the third
since Draghi took office on Nov. 1. Twelve of 22 forecasters in
another survey predicted the ECB would lower the deposit rate to
zero. The euro fell more than half a cent to $1.2402 at 3 p.m.
in Frankfurt.  Central banks around the globe are easing policy in
response to Europe’s debt crisis, which has pushed at least
seven euro nations into recession and forced five of them to
seek bailouts.  Bank of England  The  Bank of England , which has been drawn into the scandal
over Barclays Plc’s rigging of Libor rates, today raised its
target for bond purchases by 50 billion pounds ($78 billion) to
375 billion pounds.  China  cut rates today and the U.S. and
Australian central banks eased monetary policy last month.  Draghi said there was no ECB coordination with the Bank of
 England  or People’s Bank of China on today’s policy decisions
“beyond the normal exchange of views.”  In Europe, bond and equity markets rallied last week after
euro-area leaders opened the way to recapitalizing banks
directly with bailout funds once a single banking supervisor is
established. They also dropped the requirement that taxpayers
get preferred creditor status on aid to  Spain ’s crippled
lenders.  Yields on Spanish 10-year bonds fell to 6.25 percent
yesterday from 6.94 percent on June 28. They rose to 6.53
percent this morning.  A deposit rate of zero may encourage banks to lend to other
institutions, companies or households instead of parking excess
cash in the ECB’s  overnight deposit facility . About 800 billion
euros ($1 trillion) is currently being deposited with the ECB
each day.  Market Rates  The deposit rate has steered market borrowing costs since
the ECB started to provide banks with unlimited liquidity after
the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008. That
policy removed the need for banks to lend to each other to meet
their  reserve requirements , pushing down  interest rates . Today’s
move may therefore lower the euro overnight index average, or
Eonia, which stood at 0.33 percent yesterday.  “Cutting the deposit rate reduces bank lending rates, and
indirectly it helps the economy,” said Martin Van Vliet, senior
euro-area economist at ING Bank in Amsterdam. “It’s not a
silver bullet, but everything helps.”  Draghi said now that the deposit rate is at zero,
“expectations of further easing of monetary policy in case
price stability considerations were to warrant it” in itself
“has a positive effect, a stimulus effect.”  ECB Loans  Cutting the benchmark rate will lower the cost of ECB
loans. The ECB has lent banks more than 1 trillion euros for
three years in its so-called Longer Term Refinancing Operations,
with the interest determined by the average of the benchmark
rate over the period of the loans.  Draghi last month questioned the effectiveness of cutting
rates, arguing that “price signals” have a “relatively
limited immediate effect” amid financial-market tensions.  Today he said policy makers have more information and “we
see that credit flows remain weak.”  “We still expect a gradual, slow recovery around the end
of the year,” Draghi said. “The baseline scenario hasn’t
changed, although the downside risks are now materializing.”  Unemployment rose to a record 11.1 percent in May, economic
confidence slumped to the lowest in more than two and a half
years in June, and data yesterday confirmed that services and
manufacturing output contracted for a fifth month. The euro
economy will shrink 0.3 percent this year, according to the
European Commission.  “It does look like it is going to be a somewhat rocky 2012
for the euro-area economy,” said Richard Barwell, senior
European economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in
 London . “At the same time, I don’t think the ECB are convinced
that conventional policy has that much of an impact.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  