-- Egypt Pound Set for First Weekly Gain in Five; Dollar Bonds Gain
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2012-07-05T11:21:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/egypt-pound-set-for-first-weekly-gain-in-five-dollar-bonds-gain.html
The Egyptian pound is headed for the
first weekly gain in five after stocks climbed and on signals
there won’t be a change in the country’s currency policy. The
dollar bonds rose.  The currency, subject to a managed float, strengthened 0.1
percent this week after reaching 6.0623 intraday on June 27, the
weakest level since December 2004. It was unchanged at 6.056 at
11:33 a.m. in Cairo, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Twelve-month non-deliverable pound forwards, which provide
guidance to expectations, retreated from a record low.  President Mohamed Mursi met with central bank governor
Farouk El-Okdah twice this week, discussing the banking
industry, foreign exchange and the economy, the official Middle
East  News Agency  reported. The central bank is due to release
foreign reserves data for June this week.  “The currency is taking cue from the stock market’s gains
and the president’s meetings with Okdah, which were widely seen
signaling there won’t be a change in the central bank’s policy
of maintaining the value of the pound,” said Moustafa Assal,
managing director of Bondlink Advisory, a Cairo-based financial
advisory firm that mostly trades  government securities .  Mursi was on June 24 declared the winner of  Egypt ’s first
free presidential contest, sending the benchmark  EGX 30 Index (EGX30)  on
a 20-percent surge in six days. In speeches following his
victory, he praised the North African nation’s military leaders
and promised to build a “civil, modern state.” Talks are
continuing to replace the government of Prime Minister Kamal el-
Ganzouri.  Egypt will probably reach a $3.2 billion loan agreement
with the  International Monetary Fund  after Mursi forms a
government, Abdallah Shehata, a member of the economic committee
at the Islamist Freedom and Justice Party, said July 1. Recovery
in tourism and economic activity will help support the  exchange
rate , he said, adding “there is no need for devaluation.”  The pound’s 12-month forwards strengthened to 7.45 a dollar
from 7.95 on June 26, the lowest level since Bloomberg started
tracking them in 2007. That reflects expectations for the
currency to lose 19 percent over the life of the contracts.  The yield on the Egypt’s 5.75 percent dollar bonds due in
2020 declined a fifth day, losing four basis points, or 0.04 of
a percentage point, to 6.23 percent at 11:41 a.m. in Cairo,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the lowest level
on a closing basis since November.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  