-- Lehman Seeks to Cancel Billions in JPMorgan Claims
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-07-05T21:10:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/lehman-seeks-to-cancel-billions-in-jpmorgan-claims.html
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., which
seeks to cancel billions of dollars in payment claims by
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , asked a judge to help by reconsidering
parts of an $8.6 billion lawsuit against the biggest U.S. bank.  JPMorgan, a key lender to Lehman in the 2008 credit crisis,
says it is owed $6.3 billion by the defunct investment bank.
Lehman, as part of an effort cut creditors’ claims to
$300 billion to meet its target of repaying at the rate of
18 cents on the dollar, is fighting JPMorgan in a lawsuit and a
separate challenge in court.  A revised ruling by the judge who dismissed part of the
lawsuit in April might bring “significant relief,” Lehman said
in a filing. While it won’t try to “relitigate” his decision
on the law, he could reinstate part of the lawsuit “based on
other theories, such as fraud,” the defunct firm said in the
July 3 filing in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in  Manhattan .  Separately, JPMorgan is struggling to maintain its image as
risk-averse and well-managed after reporting a $2 billion loss
in a London unit that Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  said
“violated common sense.” Dimon said the loss may grow to
$3 billion or more. Analysts including Charles Peabody at
Portales Partners LLC in  New York  estimate it at about
$5 billion.  Joe Evangelisti , a JPMorgan spokesman, declined to comment
on Lehman’s filing.  Safe Harbor  In its suit, Lehman, once the fourth-largest investment
bank, accused New York-based JPMorgan of helping to cause its
2008 collapse by demanding $8.6 billion in collateral as backing
for loans. JPMorgan, saying it lent Lehman $70 billion around
the time of its 2008 collapse, sued back, saying it was deceived
into making the loans.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge James Peck told Lehman in April that
it cannot sue JPMorgan over transactions governed by so-called
safe harbor law, devised to protect banks dealing with weak
companies. Doing so, he took away Lehman’s easy way of getting
money from the bank or canceling its claims, leaving it “to
pursue the remaining ‘‘complex and fact driven causes of
action,’’ according to a written decision.  Lehman has twice asked Peck to reconsider. JPMorgan said in
February it would give Lehman almost $700 million to settle part
of the lawsuit, though it continues to fight for most of its
claims.  Dismissal ‘Premature’  Peck said this week it would be ‘‘premature’’ to throw out
objections to the claims by Lehman and its creditors committee,
as the bank asked.  Lehman, which exited bankruptcy in March, intends to pay
creditors $53 billion in six years or so. Lehman filed the
biggest bankruptcy in U.S. history in September 2008, listing
$613 billion in debt.  The main case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.,
08-13555,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York
(Manhattan). The lawsuit is Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. v.
JPMorgan Chase Bank NA, 10-03266, U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  