-- Telefonica Sees Digital Revenue of 5 Billion Euros by 2015
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2012-07-05T13:05:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/telefonica-sees-annual-digital-sales-of-5-billion-euros-by-2015.html
Telefonica SA (TEF) , the Spanish phone
company reeling from declining revenue at home and competition
from discounters, forecasts its digital business will generate
annual sales of about 5 billion euros ($6.2 billion) by 2015.  Sales from Telefonica Digital, created in September 2011 by
combining digital assets on three continents, including social-
networking site Tuenti and Web-phone platform Jajah, will
increase 20 percent a year from 2.4 billion euros in 2011, the
Madrid-based company said in a statement today.  “The forecast for digital isn’t easy but I think we can
get it,” Chief Executive Officer Cesar Alierta said today on
the sidelines of an investor event in  London . In February,
Alierta said the unit “will see significant growth as we take
new projects next year.”  Telefonica is using its digital unit to gain revenue from
additional services and stem the defection of users switching to
competitors. The company doesn’t plan to dispose of any digital
assets, said Matthew Key, Telefonica’s digital chief.  Alierta and Key were at the event to present forecasts for
digital assets for the first time. Key ran Telefonica’s European
mobile-phone operations before Alierta put him in charge of the
digital businesses, which include Terra, a Sao Paulo-based
Internet portal offering free and subscription-based videos in
 Latin America  and the U.S.  Latin America  Digital-services growth will be helped by Telefonica’s
presence in 25 countries, especially its position in Latin
America, and its 309 million customers, as well as partnerships
with companies including  Telecom Italia SpA (TIT)  and China Unicom
( Hong Kong ) Ltd., according to a Telefonica presentation.  The digital services are “already delivering growth levels
well in excess of market norms,” Key said in the statement.  Telefonica’s digital push includes machine-to-machine
services, which it predicts will add 500 million euros to 800
million euros in sales by 2015. Other areas of the digital
business include financial services and advertising in Latin
America and  Europe , which Telefonica forecasts will generate 800
million euros to 1.1 billion euros in sales by 2015.  Telefonica’s digital assets will have a “tremendous
positive impact” on earnings and will help improve user loyalty
and market share, Alierta said at today’s event.  Telefonica shares fell 1.1 percent to 10.36 euros as of
3:03 p.m. in  Madrid , valuing the company at 47.2 billion euros.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Browning in London at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  