-- Temasek Spends More on Investments, Adds Energy Holdings
-- B y   J o y c e   K o h   a n d   S a n a t   V a l l i k a p p e n
-- 2012-07-05T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/temasek-assets-rise-to-record-s-198-billion-on-new-holdings-1-.html
Temasek Holdings Pte,  Singapore ’s
state-owned investment company, said it spent the most on new
holdings in four years as it added more energy and resources
producers to its portfolio.  The company said it made S$22 billion ($17 billion) of
investments in the year to March 31, boosting assets to a record
S$198 billion. It invested S$2 billion in FTS International, a
U.S. shale energy production service provider which it has a 40
percent stake in, and S$1.3 billion in The Mosaic Co., a U.S.
fertilizer producer.  The deals helped Temasek weather Europe’s debt crisis and a
lackluster U.S. economic recovery that roiled markets. Total
shareholder return, which includes changes in asset values and
dividends, gained 1.5 percent in a year when  market volatility 
reached the highest level since the 2008-2009 crisis, while the
 MSCI World Index (MXWO)  lost 1.7 percent.  “My sense is that Temasek’s modus operandi in difficult
years is actually to be even more aggressive in terms of its
acquisitions,” said Eugene Tan, an assistant law professor at
 Singapore Management University  and a nominated member of
Parliament who’s not affiliated with a political party. “They
have the bandwidth to go into many investments, which many
others may be somewhat hesitant. It reflects their confidence of
what they feel will work out for them in the medium to long
term.”  The company said yesterday profit declined 16 percent as
contributions from units fell amid the global slowdown. Net
income dropped to S$10.7 billion from S$12.7 billion a year
earlier, it said in its  annual report . Total shareholder return
narrowed from 4.6 percent in the previous year.  ‘Contagion Risks’  “We see contagion risks from Europe as potentially
significant,” Chia Song Hwee, Temasek’s head of strategy and
credit portfolio, and co-head of  portfolio management , China and
Singapore, said in a briefing yesterday. “While the environment
is going to be very challenging, our financial flexibility and
long-term investment stance will allow us to capture and address
opportunities.”  New investments increased 69 percent from S$13 billion in
the previous year, boosting holdings in  North America  and Europe
to 11 percent of Temasek’s portfolio from 8 percent last year,
and doubling the energy holdings to 6 percent of its assets.  “We believe that energy and resources will continue to be
a growth segment, and has got great long-term potential,” said
Chia. “We continue to look at opportunities, the values, in
this space and invest in them accordingly.”  More Divestments  Divestments totaled S$15 billion, the most in three years,
including shares of  Avago Technologies Ltd. (AVGO) , PT Chandra Asri
Petrochemical, Hutchison Port Holdings Trust,  ICICI Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC) 
and  Kaisa Group Holdings Ltd. (1638) , it said. In the previous year,
the company sold S$9 billion of its holdings, it said.  Temasek’s total shareholder return averaged 17 percent
since its inception in 1974. The company had a negative
shareholder return of 30 percent in the year ended March 2009
after losses tied to the sale of its stake in  Bank of America
Corp.  and  Barclays Plc. (BARC)  It then posted a 42 percent increase the
following year. The average return was 15 percent over a three-
year period, and 10 percent over 10 years, it said.  “Given the market conditions in the last fiscal year were
very choppy, the fact that they increased their assets by a few
billion is decent,” said Vasu Menon, vice president for  wealth
management  at Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp. in Singapore.  Singapore Assets  Assets in Singapore slid to 30 percent from 32 percent of
holdings. The benchmark  Straits Times Index (FSSTI)  declined 3.1 percent
in the year ended March. The firm is the biggest shareholder in
half of the 10 biggest companies by market value in the city-
state, including  DBS Group Holdings Ltd. (DBS)  and  Singapore
Telecommunications Ltd. (ST)  The phone operator, Southeast Asia’s
biggest, was the only one among the five that gained in the past
fiscal year.  Holdings in Asia excluding Singapore fell to 42 percent of
its portfolio from 45 percent a year earlier, the company said
in the report. Investments in Australia and  New Zealand  made up
14 percent of Temasek’s assets from 12 percent a year earlier.  Banks remained the biggest part of the company’s holdings
even as they made up a smaller portion of the portfolio.
Financial services accounted for 31 percent of holdings, down
from 36 percent a year earlier, it said. Transport and
industrial companies were 21 percent of assets, and those in
technology and telecommunications made up 24 percent.  Temasek’s returns compare with the mixed performance among
the world’s biggest companies with investments in various
industries. Shares of General Electric Co. gained 0.1 percent in
the year ended March, while  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. (BRK/A)  fell 2.7 percent. In Asia, Hong Kong billionaire Li Ka- shing’s  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) , with investments in ports to
real estate, slumped 16 percent.  Management Changes  The state investor has faced changes at the top since the
middle of 2009, when it parted ways with former BHP Billiton Ltd.
head Charles “Chip” Goodyear, who was going to replace  Ho Ching  as chief executive officer, over differences in strategy.
 Simon Israel , a former Temasek executive director and president,
retired from his executive and board roles in July 2011, while
former President Hsieh Fu Hua stepped down in October.  The company named Lee Theng Kiat, head of its Singapore
Technologies Telemedia Pte unit, as president and general
counsel on April 1. Boon Sim, former global head of mergers and
acquisitions at Credit Suisse Group AG, joined as president for
North America on June 1. In January, it hired John Cryan, the
former chief financial officer of UBS AG, as president for
Europe. Gregory Curl, once a candidate for CEO of  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC) , is its fourth president.  Temasek is  ranked  ninth among sovereign investors by the
SWF Institute, trailing behind funds including those in the
United Arab Emirates, Norway and China.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sanat Vallikappen in Singapore at 
 vallikappen@bloomberg.net ’
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  