-- Merck KGaA Says Erbitux Fails in Stomach Cancer Trial
-- B y   P h i l   S e r a f i n o
-- 2012-07-05T16:37:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/merck-kgaa-says-erbitux-fails-in-stomach-cancer-trial.html
Merck KGaA (MRK) ’s Erbitux cancer treatment
failed to help patients with advanced stomach tumors in a late-
stage clinical trial, dealing the company a setback in the
effort to expand sales of its second-biggest-selling medicine.  The drug, combined with two other medicines, didn’t extend
the length of time that patients lived without their disease
getting worse, the Darmstadt, Germany-based company said in a
statement today.  The results are the second disappointment this year for
Erbitux. The company said May 9 the drug failed to show a
benefit for stage-three colon cancer patients when given with
chemotherapy as a way to prevent the cancer’s return following
tumor removal. Merck’s forecast in May for company revenue to
reach as much as 10.7 billion euros ($13 billion) in 2014 didn’t
include approval of Erbitux for use in additional cancer types.  “These disappointing results remove a potential upside to
Merck’s 2014 guidance,” said Richard Vosser, an analyst at
JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  London  who has an underweight rating on
Merck stock. “We now see limited growth for Erbitux going
forward.”  Shares Decline  Merck declined 2.3 percent to 78.14 euros in  Frankfurt . The
stock has returned 5.7 percent including reinvested dividends in
the past year,  compared with  20 percent for the Bloomberg Europe
Pharmaceutical Index.  Patients in the trial, dubbed Expand, had inoperable cancer
of the stomach or gastro-esophageal junction and hadn’t received
prior chemotherapy or radiation, Merck said. They got Erbitux
along with cisplatin, a standard chemotherapy, and the
capecitabine cancer drug. Typically, they would receive only
palliative chemotherapy, according to Merck.  “We are disappointed that the Expand trial did not show a
benefit for patients,” the lead investigator in the study,
Florian Lordick of  Hannover Medical School  in  Germany , said in
the statement. “Patients with advanced gastric cancer currently
have few treatment choices and a poor prognosis, and we will
continue to investigate other treatment options for these
patients in the hope of being able to offer improved outcomes.”  Erbitux Sales  Merck got 855 million euros in Erbitux sales last year,
making it the company’s second-biggest-selling product after
Rebif for multiple sclerosis. It’s approved for colorectal
cancer as well as head and neck tumors, and Merck said in May it
expected growth in Erbitux sales.  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  and
 Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY)  market the drug in the U.S. and  Canada , while
Merck promotes it and sells it elsewhere.  Merck has applied to sell the drug for  lung cancer  in the
European Union. The chances of Merck winning approval in lung
cancer are “essentially zero,”  Martin Voegtli , an analyst at
Kepler Capital Markets, wrote in a report today.  In February, the company said chances of approval were less
than 50 percent after a committee of the European Medicines
Agency sent the company questions about the application.  “This brings us exactly back to the roots of Merck’s
current problems: Slow or declining key drug franchises and weak
pipeline to offset future sales declines,” wrote Voegtli, who
has a reduce rating on the stock.  The study included 904 patients in 25 countries, Merck
said. Gastric cancer is the second leading cause of cancer-
related death worldwide, leading to more than 700,000 deaths a
year, Merck said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Serafino in Paris at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino in Paris at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  