-- Eskom to Gain From Lower Coal Prices, Chairman Tsotsi Says
-- B y   M a t t h e w   H i l l
-- 2012-07-06T06:24:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/eskom-to-benefit-from-lower-coal-prices-chairman-says.html
Eskom Holdings SOC Ltd., which
supplies 95 percent of  South Africa ’s power, said it supports
the government’s proposal to declare coal a strategic resource
and should benefit from slumping prices for the fuel.  “We think companies are likely to move to single-digit
price” increases in the next few years, Chairman Zola Tsotsi
said in an interview in  Pretoria , South Africa’s capital,
yesterday.  State-owned Eskom, which depends on the fuel for more than
80 percent of power generation, paid 17 percent more for coal in
the year through March and is building the world’s third- and
fourth-biggest coal-fired plants at about 4,800 megawatts each.
Public Enterprises Minister  Malusi Gigaba  on June 14 said the
nation may consider export quotas and legislating the quality of
coal allowed after shipments.  South Africa has traditionally supplied high-quality coal
to European  power plants  and kept lower-quality fuel for Eskom’s
specially designed facilities. In recent years, rising demand
from  India  for low-quality coal has created competition for
Eskom.  Coal prices at  Richards Bay , South Africa’s biggest export
terminal for the commodity, have fallen 25 percent in the past
12 months to $75.17 a metric ton in the week through June 29,
according to IHS McCloskey data on Bloomberg. Shipments from the
terminal climbed 14 percent to 5.45 million tons in June from a
year earlier, it said on July 2.  “We will likely benefit from the trend of declining
international prices,” Tsotsi said.  Price Increases  Eskom’s biggest cost is coal, and the Johannesburg-based
company’s largest suppliers of the fuel include Johannesburg-
listed  Exxaro Resources Ltd. (EXX) , London-based  Anglo American Plc (AAL) 
and  BHP Billiton , the world’s biggest miner.  Power prices have risen an average of 27 percent in each of
the past four years to help Eskom fund a 340 billion-rand ($42
billion) expansion plan to overcome a scarcity that temporarily
idled mines of companies including Anglo in 2008.  Africa’s biggest power utility last month completed a draft
of its price application that will determine what it charges for
electricity for each of the five years starting April 1, Eskom
said on June 22.  The South African Local Government Association, which
represents municipalities, and the National Treasury have 40
days to comment on the draft before Eskom submits a final
pricing application to the National Energy Regulator.  ‘Single-Digit’ Advances  “One of the assumptions going into the next tariff
framework is that over the next five years we would be able to
keep coal-price” increases to “single digits,” Gigaba, who
has to table the pricing decision in parliament by March 15,
said in a separate interview yesterday.  Gigaba met with Mineral Resources Minister Susan Shabangu
this week to discuss coal supply security for Eskom, as well as
the impact of rising prices of the fuel on South Africa’s
electricity tariffs, he said.  The ministers asked their directors-general to draw up a
plan to secure affordable coal supplies for Eskom. It will take
two months for the officials to compile “a detailed program”
together with the  Department of Energy  and the government-owned
Council for Geoscience, Gigaba said.  Dollar-based borrowing costs for Eskom, which plans to
raise 60 billion rand through bond sales in the next five years,
have declined 166 basis points, or 1.66 percentage points, to
4.26 percent, the lowest since the company sold its first
dollar-denominated debt in January last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Hill in Johannesburg at 
 mhill58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  