-- European Stocks Drop as Draghi Sees Risks; Banks Retreat
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2012-07-05T15:56:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/european-stock-futures-little-changed-before-ecb-decision.html
European stocks  retreated as European
Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said downside risks to the
economy remain, offsetting monetary policy easing by countries
from  China  to the U.K.  Spanish and Italian banks fell as bond yields climbed after
the ECB refrained from announcing new measures to support
growth.  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  jumped 5.1 percent after reaching an
agreement with Germany’s tax authorities to buy the 50.1 stake
in Porsche SE that it doesn’t already own. GKN Plc jumped 13
percent after buying  Volvo AB (VOLVB) ’s aircraft-engine unit.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  lost 0.2 percent to 256.93 at
the close in London after earlier falling as much as 0.8 percent
and rising as much as 0.8 percent. The equity benchmark is still
headed for a fifth-straight week of gains, which would be its
longest winning streak since January. The Stoxx 600 has  climbed
9.9 percent from this year’s low  on June 4 amid speculation that
central banks would ease monetary policy.  “A lot of today’s announcements were largely
anticipated,” said  Edmund Shing , an equity strategist at
 Barclays Capital  in London. “You could argue that over the last
few days, markets have been pricing in increasing expectation of
central-bank action.”  The ECB cut  interest rates  to a record low and said it
won’t pay anything on overnight deposits. The central bank
reduced its main refinancing rate to 0.75 percent from 1 percent
and cut its deposit rate to zero from 0.25 percent.  Draghi, the central bank’s president, said some “downside
risks to the euro-area economic outlook have materialized. The
main downside risks relate to weaker-than-expected economic
activity.”  Rates Decision  The Stoxx 600 earlier climbed as China cut its  interest
rates  for the second time in a month and allowed banks to offer
bigger discounts on their lending costs. The one-year lending
rate will fall by 31 basis points and the one-year deposit rate
will drop by 25 basis points with effect from tomorrow, the
People’s Bank of China said. Lenders can offer 30 percent
discounts on loans, the central bank said.  In the U.K, the  Bank of England  restarted  bond buying  two
months after halting its asset-purchase program. The Monetary
Policy Committee led by Governor  Mervyn King  raised its target
by 50 billion pounds ($78 billion) to 375 billion pounds,
matching the estimates of the  majority of economists  in a
Bloomberg News survey.  National benchmark indexes fell in 14 of the 18 western-
European markets. Germany’s DAX declined 0.5 percent and
France’s CAC 40 retreated 1.2 percent. The U.K.’s FTSE 100
gained 0.1 percent.  Lenders Retreat  European banks posted the biggest slide of the 19
industries in the Stoxx 600 as Spanish and Italian bonds dropped
after the ECB refrained from announcing more measures to cap
borrowing costs in so-called peripheral nations. Spanish
securities also declined after the nation’s borrowing costs
increased at a debt sale today.  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) , Italy’s largest
banks, slumped 5.1 percent to 2.81 euros and 4.4 percent to 1.04
euros, respectively. Italy’s 10-year government bonds extended
their decline, pushing the  yield on the securities  above 6
percent earlier today. Yields on two-year notes advanced 27
basis points to 3.70 percent.  In Spain,  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA)  plunged 4.8
percent to 5.46 euros and  Banco Santander SA (SAN) , the country’s
largest lender, fell 3.9 percent to 5.10 euros.  Volkswagen Gains  VW climbed 5.1 percent to 134.50 euros after  Europe’s
largest carmaker  agreed to buy the controlling stake in
Porsche’s automotive business for 4.46 billion euros ($5.5
billion), ending a seven-year takeover saga that has divided two
of Germany’s most powerful families.  The transaction  enables VW to fully incorporate Porsche’s
automotive business into its stable of brands. The cash deal has
an equity value of 3.88 billion euros and also includes what
Porsche’s holding company would have received in dividend
payments and half of the forecast synergies from the
combination. Porsche slipped 1.2 percent to 41.46 euros.  GKN (GKN)  rallied 13 percent to 211 pence, its biggest rally in
more than three years. The British maker of parts for Airbus SAS
airplanes agreed to buy the Volvo unit for 633 million pounds.
GKN said it will raise 140 million pounds in a share sale to
help pay for the purchase. For Volvo, the deal marks its biggest
structural shift since the company split off its car unit in
1999. The shares slid 0.4 percent to 81.25 kronor.  Robert Walters Plc (RWA)  led a selloff by U.K. recruitment
companies, tumbling 6.9 percent to 194.5 pence. The business
reported a 3 percent decline in second-quarter net fee income,
missing some analysts’ estimates. Shore Capital had predicted
total net fee income to increase 11.1 percent.  Michael Page International Plc (MPI)  dropped 4.5 percent to 363
pence after Bank of America Corp. reduced its earnings-per-share
estimate for the company, citing the risk of a relative
derating.  Hays Plc (HAS)  slid 3.5 percent to 73.7 pence, even as the
brokerage reiterated its buy recommendation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  