-- Euro Money Market to Get Little Stress Relief From ECB Rate Cuts
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2012-07-05T16:06:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/euro-money-market-to-get-little-stress-relief-from-ecb-rate-cuts.html
Estimates of future interbank euro
borrowing costs fell to a record after today’s  European Central
Bank  rate cuts, heightening concerns that ultra-low returns will
further dissuade banks from lending to their peers.  Three-month swaps linked to the euro overnight index
average, or Eonia, fell to as low as 12.6 basis points after the
ECB lowered its deposit rate by 25 basis points to zero percent.
The measure of overnight unsecured lending transactions, the so-
called Eonia-OIS swap, has fallen from 39 basis points at the
start of the year.  “The Eonia-OIS is likely to fall lower, and that may kill
the  interbank market  because you’re taking such a large credit
risk relative to the revenue you’re getting,” said Robin Belec,
chief operating officer at In Touch Capital Markets Ltd. in
 London . “Banks that are short of liquidity may become more
dependent on the ECB despite the zero deposit rate.”  The decline in Eonia-OIS has accompanied a drop in the
volume of  overnight lending  as measured by the European Banking
Federation in Brussels as part of its daily survey of interbank
activity. About 22.4 billion euros ($28 billion) of transactions
were recorded in the Eonia market yesterday, compared with a
five-year daily average of 36 billion euros.  The Eonia-OIS swap was 13.7 basis points at 5 p.m. in
London, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The rate was 22
basis points before the ECB’s announcement.  ECB policy makers also cut the main benchmark rate by 25
basis points to 0.75 percent at today’s meeting, which took
place six days after European leaders’ latest summit to resolve
the sovereign crisis.  Basis Swap  The cost for European banks to borrow in dollars rose to
the highest in four months. The three-month cross-currency  basis
swap , the rate banks pay to convert euro interest payments into
dollars, was 69 basis points below the euro interbank offered
rate, the highest cost since March 5, from 58 yesterday.  The one-year basis swap was 55 basis points below Euribor
from minus 52 yesterday. Euribor is the rate  banks  say they see
each other lending in euros and is derived from a survey by the
European Banking Federation.  Prices in the forward market for three-month Euribor
relative to overnight indexed swaps -- known as the FRA/OIS
spread -- rose to 30 basis points from 28. An increase signals
banks are less willing to lend.  Three-month Euribor fell to 0.641 percent from 0.645 the
day before. The rate reached a record low of 0.634 percent on
March 31, 2010. One-week Euribor fell to 0.313 percent from
0.317 percent.  The London interbank offered rate, or Libor, for three-
month dollar loans was unchanged at 0.460. Libor, which acts as
a benchmark for about $360 trillion of financial instruments
worldwide, is published by the British Bankers’ Association.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in London at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  