-- European Stock Gains Prove Reliable After EU Summit Deal
-- B y   A n d r e w   R u m m e r ,   A d r i a   C i m i n o   a n d   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2012-07-05T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/european-stock-gains-prove-reliable-after-eu-summit-deal.html
For the first time in more than a
year, crisis-fighting measures announced at a European Summit
are leading to consistent gains in the region’s stocks.  As the CHART OF THE DAY shows, European stocks have rallied
on the day following the past five meetings, only to give up
most or all of the gains within a week as investor optimism
faded. The blue bars indicate the Stoxx Europe 600 Index’s gains
in the day after an agreement was announced, while the red and
green bars show the movement five trading days after the summit.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s comments two days before
the June 28-29 gathering that she doesn’t foresee any shared
liability for euro-region debt in her lifetime helped to lower
expectations of a compromise between borrowers and creditors,
according to Philippe Gijsels, a market research analyst at BNP
Paribas Fortis Capital Markets in Brussels.  “The market wasn’t expecting anything and something did
come out of this meeting,” Gijsels said. “ Germany  made some
major steps toward the other countries and that explains why the
market rose and rallied for a longer period of time.”  Leaders of the 17 euro nations dropped the requirement that
governments get preferred-creditor status on crisis loans to
 Spain ’s banks and opened the door to recapitalizing lenders
directly with bailout funds once  Europe  sets up a single banking
supervisor. The leaders also discussed reducing the market
pressure on Italy and Spain by allowing them to access rescue
loans without relinquishing control of their economies.  “We see the rally lasting longer as investors feel that a
fundamental improvement was made,” said Anja Hochberg, head of
investment strategy at Credit Suisse Group AG in Zurich.
“Before the last summit, investors felt like we were at 45
percent of the solution-finding process -- and now maybe at
around 55 percent. Passing that 50 percent line was very
important for sentiment.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Rummer in London at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net ;
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net ;
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  