-- Mexico’s New Leaders Must Preserve Its Democratic Gains
-- B y   E n r i q u e   K r a u z e
-- 2012-07-05T16:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/mexico-s-new-leaders-must-preserve-its-democratic-gains.html
In the stock market of international
prestige,  Mexico ’s shares are rated quite low. And it is
understandable.  For years we have been hearing of corruption scandals, and
now the newspapers are full of  violent crime . But this bad
opinion (shared by many Mexicans) is really unfair. In the past
15 years, there has been extraordinary progress in the country’s
political life. If we ignore these achievements, we can only
descend into confusion, unreality and despair.  For almost seven decades, Mexico was the country of an
imperial presidency, ruled by a party that rarely had to use
open coercion, and bought obedience and goodwill with public
money. The country showed a measure of stability and growth, but
developed no political maturity. As a nation, the people lived
as clients, willing or unwilling, of the PRI, a party that
functioned as a  well-oiled machine  for electoral control and
social mobility.  Let’s look at a few facts of the past. In the 1940s, voting
booths were seized like the spoils of war, and there were
instances of army colonels turning machine guns on opposition
voters. In the 1950s, a president disparaged the center-right
party of the  PAN  (the only genuinely independent opposition
party) as “mystics of the vote.” In the 1960s, the government
massacred a peaceful group of student demonstrators. In the
1970s, a president maneuvered a successful takeover of the only
independent newspaper.  Deplorable Past  In the 1980s, a president used his extremely broad powers
to plunge the country, for a time, into billions of dollars of
debt. In the same decade, a minister of the interior
orchestrated a scandalous fraud in a presidential election. Only
as a result of the assassination of their presidential candidate
in March 1994 -- a crime never really solved -- were the leaders
of the PRI, the effective masters of Mexico, convinced that the
advent of democracy was inevitable. When President  Ernesto Zedillo  decided, in 1995, to open up the system, democracy
arrived for Mexico through a wide-open gate. And it came to
stay.  “The perfect dictatorship” -- as the novelist Mario Vargas Llosa called the PRI state -- died, unmourned, on July 1, 2000.
From then on, the president was restricted to his specified
constitutional powers. Congress became pluralist, independent
and combative, and the  Supreme Court ’s decisions became
universally respected. Local authorities, such as governors and
mayors, use and abuse their new degree of independence, but
Mexicans now have full civil liberties, including a free press.
It is criminals, rather than local governments, who are most
concerned with limiting freedom of expression.  After a difficult apprenticeship through the economic
crises of 1976, 1982 and 1994, Mexico has finally developed a
financial professional class of world caliber. The  Bank of
Mexico  is fully autonomous, and this is reflected in the
relatively healthy condition of the nation’s public finances.
Annual economic growth of about 4 percent needs improvement, but
it isn’t to be scorned at a time of international recession. In
a country with a high rate of poverty, Mexico’s social programs
are still insufficient but they have been strengthened, not
through the favor of a president (as was once the case) but
because of institutional continuity.  Democracy Evolves  The changes have been profound, and the return to power of
the PRI with the presidential victory of Enrique Pena Nieto
should not endanger those achievements. But the issue is whether
the new government will continue to build on Mexican democracy.  The newly elected president has insisted on the “renovation”
of the PRI and the need to avoid a return to the past. Assuming
that he is sincere, he faces two significant obstacles.  The first consists of the famous  PRI  “dinosaurs” who have
taken refuge in the “Jurassic Park” of state government, where
there are corrupt governors, often linked to drug traffickers.
Some still play a role in gigantic public unions created by the
PRI, such as the oil workers, whose leaders are practically the
private proprietors of a public industry. Mexico needs a
conjunction of structural reforms that, among other things, will
broaden the tax base, open the oil industry to foreign
investment and deregulate the labor market. Many of these needed
changes conflict with the commitment to patronage of the
traditional PRI.  Only a true reformer can break down this lingering
corporate edifice constructed by the PRI, with its antiquated
ideas, its manufactured interests and its connections with
crime. It isn’t certain that Pena Nieto and his young entourage
have the historical will to carry out this task.  The other obstacle is the unfortunate reaction of  Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador , the center-left candidate, to his
electoral defeat. He has disappointed many of his own supporters
by refusing to accept his electoral loss -- by more than 3
million votes. He did the same six years ago, responding to a
razor-thin electoral defeat, and his actions then, almost
closing down Mexico City, damaged the possibilities of a modern
left.  Opposition Threat  Lopez Obrador seems to be looking backward, to an autarchic
economic and social arcadia inspired by the nationalism of the
Mexican Revolution. Had he won the election, there might have
been a retreat from democracy, with the elevation of a redeemer
connected with the masses and much too careless with laws and
institutions. Although it is unlikely he can legally reverse the
electoral results, the political mobilization he created
(especially among students) will affect the course of Pena
Nieto’s term of office. He will oppose some needed reforms in
Congress and in the streets, especially the opening of the
 petroleum industry  to private investment.  A sector of the Mexican public, especially well-educated
urban residents, is furious at the defeat of  Lopez Obrador .
Let’s hope their anger won’t lead to an eruption of political
violence. That would only throw wood on the fire of criminal
violence, which is a threat to the entire nation.  Mexico’s society is working, growing and participating in
politics. Forty-nine million people voted on July 1, a million
of their fellow citizens counted the votes, and another million
supervised the electoral process. The “perfect dictatorship” is
over and done with. Mexico is a democracy under construction,
and its rating in the stock market of international respect
should soon be on the rise.  (Enrique Krauze is a historian and author of “Mexico: A
Biography of Power” and of “Redeemers: Ideas and Power in  Latin
America .” The opinions expressed are his own. This article was
translated from the Spanish by Hank Heifetz.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  To contact the writer of this article:
 Enrique Krauze  at  ekrauze@prodigy.net.mx .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at  kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 