-- Fewer Americans Than Forecast File Unemployment Claims
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i   a n d   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2012-07-05T20:09:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/fewer-americans-than-forecast-filed-jobless-claims-last-week.html
Fewer Americans filed first-time
claims for unemployment insurance payments and companies added
more workers than forecast, easing concern the labor market is
faltering further.  Applications for  jobless benefits  fell 14,000 in the week
ended June 30 to 374,000, Labor Department figures showed today.
Private employers expanded payrolls by 176,000 last month,
according to figures released today by Roseland, New Jersey-
based ADP Employer Services, exceeding the most optimistic
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of economists.  “Before today it was pretty clear the labor market had
softened over the past few months,” said Daniel Silver, an
economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  New York . “Today’s reports
show a little bright spot. The fear of a much weaker payroll
number has been reduced.”  Labor Department data tomorrow may show the pace of hiring
accelerated in June while remaining at less than half the
average for the first quarter of the year. The report covers
both private and government employers. Other figures today
showed  service industries  expanded at a slower pace in June,
underscoring Federal Reserve concern that economic growth isn’t
strong enough to reduce unemployment.  U.S. stocks fell, snapping a three-day advance for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, as disappointment over the  European
Central Bank ’s efforts to tame the debt crisis overshadowed
improving American employment data.  The  S&P 500  declined 0.5 percent to 1,367.58 at the 4 p.m.
close in New York. Treasuries gained, pushing the yield on the
10-year note down to 1.60 percent from 1.63 percent late on
July 3.  Central Banks  The ECB today cut its  benchmark  interest rates to a record
low, joining counterparts in the U.K. and  China  in taking action
against a global economic slowdown. The ECB lowered the
benchmark and deposit rates by 25 basis points to 0.75 percent
and zero respectively.  ECB President  Mario Draghi  said the cuts may have only a
limited impact on the euro-area economy as it slides toward
recession.  “It’s clear that when demand is weak the transmission of
price signals to the aggregated economy is muted,” Draghi said
at a press conference in  Frankfurt .  The  Bank of England  began today’s stimulus push, announcing
it would restart buying bonds two months after stopping. The
People’s Bank of China cut its key  interest rate  for the second
time in a month and allowed banks to offer bigger discounts on
their own lending costs.  Global Growth  Slowing global growth is curbing demand for U.S. exports
and rippling through the rest of the economy, limiting sales at
companies from  Family Dollar (FDO)  Stores Inc. to FedEx Corp. and
restraining hiring.  The  Institute for Supply Management  said its non-
manufacturing  index  dropped to 52.1, less than projected, from
53.7 in May, according to a report from the Tempe, Arizona-based
group today. The median forecast of 70 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News called for 53. Readings above 50 signal
expansion.  The report follows July 2 data that showed the ISM factory
index fell to 49.7 in June, the first contraction in almost
three years and worse than the most-pessimistic forecast in a
Bloomberg survey.  Family Dollar, the owner of more than 7,200 discount shops
in the U.S., narrowed its profit forecast for fiscal 2012 after
third-quarter sales trailed analysts’ average estimate.  ‘Economic Headwinds’  “It is clear that consumers continue to face difficult
economic headwinds,” Chief Executive Officer  Howard Levine  said
on a June 28 conference call with analysts. Discretionary
purchases like home goods and apparel continue to be
“challenged,” he said.  Demand remains soft, according to FedEx, which is
considered an economic bellwether because it carries everything
from mobile devices to pharmaceuticals. The  Memphis , Tennessee-
based company, operator of the world’s largest cargo airline,
pledged “significant cost reductions” as slowing economic
growth pressures profits.  “We now realize we’ve got to adjust the networks that we
built for higher gross domestic product growth than we’re
actually seeing,” Chief Financial Officer Alan Graf said on an
earnings call last month.  Fewer firings help pave the way for faster  job creation  when
companies grow more confident about the economic outlook.
Tomorrow’s Labor Department report may show employers added
100,000 jobs in June, up from 69,000 the prior month that was
the least in a year. The  unemployment rate  is forecast to be
unchanged at 8.2 percent.  Goldman Estimate  Economists at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. raised their
forecast for June payrolls growth to 125,000 from 75,000, citing
data including today’s ADP figures and jobless claims.  Retailers’ June same-store sales about matched analysts’
estimates, with luxury chains such as Saks Inc. and discounters
like TJX Cos. topping expectations and stores targeting middle-
income consumers trailing projections, according to another
report today.  Same-store sales at the more than 20 companies tracked by
Retail Metrics Inc. rose 0.3 percent, compared with the 1
percent average estimate of analysts surveyed by the research
firm. The results follow a 7.2 percent increase last year.  Slower job growth and unemployment that’s exceeded 8
percent for 40 straight months are damping sentiment.  Consumer
confidence  dropped last week from a two-month high as fewer
Americans considered it a good time to spend and their views of
the economy languished.  Consumer Confidence  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index decreased to minus
37.5 in the week ended July 1 from minus 36.1 in the previous
period. Even with the drop, the measure averaged minus 37.6 in
the second quarter, the best showing since the first three
months of 2008, helped in part by lower gasoline prices.  Jobless claims were forecast at 385,000, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 46 economists.
Projections ranged from 371,000 to 400,000. The Labor Department
revised the prior week’s figure to 388,000 from an initially
reported 386,000.  “Claims offer some encouragement on the labor market
front,” said  Millan Mulraine , a senior U.S. strategist at TD
Securities in New York, who forecast a drop in jobless
applications. “I would caution by saying this series is
notoriously volatile. We would hope this is sustained for the
coming months.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alexander Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net ;
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  