-- Finmeccanica Says Radios to Syria Ended as Revolt Began
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2012-07-05T20:53:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/finmeccanica-says-radios-to-syria-ended-as-revolt-began.html
Finmeccanica SpA (FNC)  said the supply of
its Tetra radio equipment to the Syrian regime was for non-
military use, didn’t violate any existing sanctions and ended
with the outbreak of civil unrest in the country.  Anti-secrecy group WikiLeaks today published on its  website 
correspondence that showed Selex Elsag, a division of
Finmeccanica, delivered 500 radio sets to Syrian police in May
2011 in the Damascus suburb of Muadamia. Protests began in  Syria 
in March 2011.  L’Espresso, the Italian news magazine that first reported
the leaked documents, said Finmeccanica entered into a 2008
contract for 40 million euros ($49.6 million) to sell the radio
equipment to the Syrian authorities.  Finmeccanica responded to the report in an e-mailed
statement. The Rome-based company, which said it’s still owed
“some millions of euros” by the Syrian regime, said the
equipment was strictly for civilian use.  “Once the unrest began in Syria, and following the stances
taken by the international community, no further supply was
authorized and therefore executed,” according to the statement.  Wikileaks today published on its website the first tranche
of what it said will be the release of about 2.5 million
documents from “Syrian political figures, ministries and
associated companies” covering August 2006 to March 2012.  “This extraordinary data set derives from 680 Syria-
related entities or domain names, including those of the
Ministries of Presidential Affairs,  Foreign Affairs , Finance,
Information, Transport and Culture,” the group said on its
website.  Syria’s government led by President Bashar al-Assad is
fighting a growing insurrection in which more than 10,000 people
have died, according to United Nations estimates.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  