-- Fletcher Sues to Block Cayman Liquidation of Hedge Fund
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r   a n d   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2012-07-05T17:34:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/fletcher-sues-to-block-cayman-liquidation-of-hedge-fund.html
Fletcher International Ltd., a
bankrupt hedge fund managed by the investment firm of Alphonse “Buddy” Fletcher, sued some of its own Cayman Islands-based
funds to block liquidators from selling its assets.  The lawsuit, filed in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in  Manhattan 
July 2, days after the fund’s own Chapter 11 bankruptcy, seeks
to stop Ernst & Young, the official liquidators winding down
related funds in the  Cayman Islands . The liquidations come after
three  Louisiana  pension funds sued to get their money back.  Fletcher has “been the target of a relentless legal
assault as part of a coordinated scheme that has left two of its
related funds in liquidation in the Cayman Islands and now
threatens to drag the debtor itself into liquidation,” the
company’s president, Floyd Saunders, said in a court filing.  The lawsuit seeks to block the funds, already in
liquidation, from disrupting Fletcher International’s
bankruptcy. Fletcher International has appealed the Cayman
court’s April decision to appoint Ernst & Young to liquidate the
funds, and expects its appeal to be heard July 31 or Aug. 1.  One of the Cayman funds in liquidation, Fletcher Income
Arbitrage Fund, owns 83 percent of Fletcher International.  ‘Illiquid Investments’  Fletcher International said the Cayman liquidators have
“neither the time, nor the specific knowledge” of its assets
to sell them in a way that will maximize value for creditors.
The company’s current management team is uniquely situated to
liquidate assets, which mostly consist of “long-term, illiquid
investments” including lawsuits that have arisen from its
complex financial positions, the company said in court papers.  The fund, founded in 1991, began trading debt and equity
and is now a specialist in arbitrage, using “master funds” and
“feeder funds,” according to court papers. Bermuda-based
Fletcher International is the “master fund” in the structure.  A probe was opened into its financial statements by the
Securities and Exchange Commission, according to a 2011  Wall
Street  Journal article. SEC spokesman  John Nester  declined to
confirm the probe.  Fletcher International filed for  bankruptcy protection  in
Manhattan on June 29, listing assets of about $52.5 million and
liabilities of about $23.8 million. The numbers are uncertain,
according to the bankruptcy filing, because there is no active
trading market for some of the assets and some of the
liabilities may be disputed.  Multiple Lawsuits  Alphonse Fletcher, a former Kidder Peabody & Co. equity
trader, brought multiple lawsuits against his former employer in
the 1990s. He won an arbitration proceeding accusing the
brokerage of giving him just half the compensation he deserved
when he left the firm, according to a 1994 Bloomberg News story.
Fletcher, who is black, lost a lawsuit alleging racial
discrimination, the Wall Street Journal reported in 1996.  Fletcher also has himself been sued for the sexual
harassment of two men and lived with a male partner in  New
York ’s famous Dakota building, which he also sued for racial
bias, according to a June 2012 article by Bloomberg. The June
article was about a lawsuit Fletcher’s wife, Ellen Pao, brought
against venture-capital firm Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers
for sex-discrimination.  The Dakota, where Alphonse Fletcher served as president
from 2007 to 2009, was the home of  John Lennon .  Alphonse Fletcher gained prominence on Wall Street in 2003
when his firm reported 300 percent-a-year returns, according to
the Wall Street Journal, which first reported the bankruptcy of
Fletcher International.  Credit Suisse  The hedge fund also claimed  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ’s
securities units are refusing to return about $1.66 million
belonging to Fletcher International. Credit Suisse withheld the
money, claiming it’s to offset debts of Fletcher International
and that other parties may claim rights to the hedge fund’s
assets, according to the filing.  Credit Suisse, which has served as a counter-party in swap
transactions and and prime broker for Fletcher International,
ended its relationship with the company in June, according to
court papers.  Katherine Herring , a spokeswoman for Zurich-based
Credit Suisse, declined to comment.  A Cayman Islands judge ordered the liquidation of two
feeder funds, including the FIA Leveraged Fund, or FIAL, after
the Firefighters’ Retirement System, the New Orleans Fire
Fighters’ Pension & Relief Fund and the Municipal Employees’
Retirement System of Louisiana, who had bought $100 million of
shares in FIAL in 2008, sought to have the investment returned.  The filing in Cayman Islands by the Louisiana pension funds
in January, seeking to have the funds liquidated, was made after
almost a year of negotiations over the redemption of the
investments, according to the bankruptcy filing.  The case is Fletcher International Ltd. v. Fletcher Income
Arbitrage Fund in Voluntary Liquidation. 12-01740. U.S.
 Bankruptcy Court  Southern District of New York (Manhattan.) The
bankruptcy is In re Fletcher International Ltd.,U.S. Bankruptcy
Court; Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net ;
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  