-- Baidu Hits 2-Week High as Rate Cut Spurs Rally
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o   a n d   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2012-07-05T20:37:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/focus-media-leads-most-chinese-adrs-lower-after-pboc-cuts-rates.html
Chinese stocks  traded in the U.S.
gained as  Baidu Inc. (BIDU) , the nation’s largest online search engine,
rose to a two-week high after policy makers cut  interest rates 
for a second time in a month to bolster growth.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese companies in the U.S. rose 0.8 percent to 92.49 by the
close of trading in  New York , the highest level since June 20.
Baidu advanced 2.2 percent while  Sina Corp. (SINA) , operator of the
Twitter-like Weibo service, extended the longest stretch of
gains in two weeks.  China Unicom (Hong Kong) Ltd. (CHU)  jumped the
most in two years after HSBC Holdings Plc raised its
recommendation on the shares of the nation’s second-largest
wireless carrier.  Stocks increased after the People’s Bank of  China  yesterday
lowered the benchmark one-year lending rate by 0.31 percentage
point and one-year deposit rate by 0.25 percentage point,
effective today. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg expect the
world’s second-largest economy grew 7.8 percent in the second
quarter, the slowest pace since 2009. The central bank has room
to further ease the supply of cash as the inflation rate
probably fell to a 29-month low last month.  “The Chinese authorities are trying to help stem the
slowdown in global growth, and that’s a good thing,” said
Audrey Kaplan, who helps manage $2 billion as head of
international equities at Federated Global Investment Management
in New York. “We see this as a great entry point for Chinese
stocks. Inflation is low, companies are growing, and the
government is acting to stimulate.”  ‘Surprise’ Cut  The Shanghai Composite Index has dropped 4 percent since
the central bank cut rates on June 7, the biggest retreat among
benchmark indexes in the 45 countries identified as emerging or
developed by  MSCI Inc. (MSCI)  The only other time the China measure led
declines among global benchmark indexes in the four weeks after
an interest-rate cut was the period ended Nov. 5, 2008, the
first day of a  bull market  that sent the Chinese gauge up 83
percent in 12 months.  The PBOC cut was followed by the  European Central Bank 
which reduced its  main rate  by 25 basis points to a record low
of 0.75 percent and said it will no longer pay anything on
overnight deposits as sovereign debt turmoil threatens to drive
the 17-nation euro economy into recession. Earlier in the day,
the  Bank of England  raised the size of its asset-purchase
program.  China ETF Slips  “The ECB rate cut was expected, but the surprise was in
China as the consensus wasn’t looking for another cut so soon
after the last one,” Jose Morales, who oversees $1.6 billion in
emerging market equities at Mirae Asset Global Investment in New
York, said in a phone interview yesterday. “The Chinese cut
does more to help equities as it gives a sign to the markets
that authorities there are monitoring the situation very closely
and will respond as it becomes necessary.”  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., slid 0.3 percent to $34.09.
The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  of mainland stocks closed down 1.2
percent to 2,201.35, before China’s rate cut was announced. The
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  of U.S. shares fell 0.5 percent to
1,367.58.  Beijing-based Baidu gained for a second day, rising to
$117.21. Shares have added 0.6 percent this year. Sina, which
had not advanced for two consecutive days since June 19, climbed
1.4 percent to $51.21. Shares have fallen 1.5 percent in 2012.  American depositary receipts of China Unicom surged 6.8
percent to $13.65, the biggest advance since February 2010,
after HSBC increased its recommendation on the shares on July 4
to neutral from underweight.  VanceInfo Technologies Inc. (VIT) , an information technology
company that counts  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  among
its  customers , jumped the most in seven months, climbing 11
percent to $11.49. Shares fell 20 percent in the second quarter.  Ambow Education Holding Ltd. (AMBO)  fell to the lowest on record
in New York after the Beijing-based education service provider’s
Chief Financial Officer resigned and the company reported a
first-quarter net loss. Ambow Education tumbled 20 percent to
$3.73, the lowest since the ADR started trading in August 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net ;
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  