-- Fukushima Disaster Was Man-Made, Investigation Finds
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a ,   J a c o b   A d e l m a n   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 2012-07-06T03:48:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/fukushima-nuclear-disaster-was-man-made-investigation-rules.html
The Fukushima nuclear disaster was
the result of “man-made” failures before and after last year’s
earthquake, according to a report from an independent
parliamentary investigation.  The breakdowns involved regulators working with the plant
operator  Tokyo  Electric Power Co. to avoid implementing safety
measures as well as a government lacking commitment to protect
the public, the Fukushima Nuclear Accident Independent
Investigation Commission said in the report.  The March 11 accident, which set off a wave of reactor
safety investigations around the world, “cannot be regarded as
a natural disaster,” the commission’s chairman, Tokyo
University professor emeritus Kiyoshi Kurokawa, wrote in the
report released yesterday in Tokyo. It “could and should have
been foreseen and prevented. And its effects could have been
mitigated by a more effective human response.”  The report dealt the harshest critique yet to  Tokyo
Electric (9501)  and the government. The findings couldn’t rule out the
possibility that the magnitude-9 earthquake damaged the
Fukushima Dai-Ichi No. 1 reactor and safety equipment. This is a
departure from other reports that concluded the reactors
withstood the earthquake, only to be disabled when the ensuing
tsunami slammed into the plant.  This finding may have implications for all  Japan ’s atomic
plant operators if it leads to tougher earthquake-resistance
standards. The operators reported combined losses of 1.6
trillion yen ($20 billion) in the year ended March owing to
safety shutdowns of the country’s 50 reactors and higher fuel
bills when they started up gas and oil-fired plants.  Earthquake’s Effect Disputed  If the Fukushima reactor had already been crippled by the
quake when the tsunami hit, it would force regulators to
reconsider the seismic criteria that all Japan’s plants need to
follow, their so-called design basis, said Najmedin Meshkati, a
professor of civil engineering at the University of  Southern
California  who has researched nuclear safety in Japan.  “This finding basically puts into question some of the
design basis assumptions that we have,” Meshkati said in a
phone interview. “If this reactor got some damage because of
the earthquake, we really need to go back and revisit some of
our assumptions that we have for the design basis of other
reactors.”  Two reactors run by Kansai Electric Power Co. won approval
to restart this month, despite protests outside the prime
minister’s office in Tokyo that drew as many as 20,000 people on
June 29,  Kyodo News  reported, citing police estimates. A
Mainichi newspaper poll on June 4 showed as many as 71 percent
of Japanese opposed the restarts.  Ignorance, Arrogance  The report said the commission found evidence of
“collusion” between Tokyo Electric and regulator, the Nuclear
and Industrial Safety Agency, to avoid implementing new safety
regulations.  Tokyo Electric also exploited its cozy relationship with
regulators to take the teeth out of regulations. “Across the
board, the Commission found ignorance and arrogance unforgivable
for anyone or any organization that deals with nuclear power,”
the report said.  The six-month independent investigation, the first of its
kind with wide-ranging subpoena powers in Japan’s constitutional
history, held public hearings with former Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  and Tokyo Electric’s ex-President Masataka Shimizu, who gave
conflicting accounts of the disaster response.  Kan said he agreed with the finding that the disaster was
man-made, though he differed with the reports findings on the
government response, according to a posting on his official blog
last night.  Contrary Finding  Three other investigations led by the government, the
utility and a private foundation said in earlier reports that
they found no evidence of major damage to reactor buildings and
equipment at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear station from last
year’s quake. They concluded the plant was swamped by a 13-meter
(43 foot) tsunami that followed the quake, knocking out backup
power generation and causing the meltdown of three reactors.  Radiation fallout from the reactors forced the evacuation
of about 160,000 people and left land in the area uninhabitable
for decades.  The Commission has 10 members, including Kurokawa. The
group comprises a seismologist and a former nuclear engineer who
has warned of safety risks at atomic plants and criticized the
government’s nuclear energy policy.  Lacking Information  Mutsuhito Tanaka, a former nuclear equipment engineer at a
unit of  Hitachi Ltd. (6501)  and a member of the commission, and Hiroaki
Koide, an assistant professor at Kyoto University’s Research
Reactor Institute, are among those who have said the quake may
have caused more damage to the Fukushima plant than so far
reported.  The commission’s report said the Fukushima situation was
worsened by government mismanagement. The utility known as Tepco
can’t use the government as a scapegoat as its own information
disclosure through the disaster was lacking, the report said.  Japan’s parliament in December appointed Kurokawa, a doctor
of medicine, to head the investigative panel.  Kurokawa clashed with the government when Prime Minister
 Yoshihiko Noda  and his cabinet approved a bill on Jan. 31 to
create a new nuclear regulatory agency.  “It is very hard to understand how the cabinet decision
has been made” before the panel finishes its investigation,
Kurokawa said in the  statement . One of the panel’s missions is
to make recommendations including the reexamination of Japan’s
nuclear policy and administrative organizations to prevent a
future atomic accident, Kurokawa said.  ‘Regulatory Capture’  After amending the bill on the new regulator to give it
more independence, the parliament passed the legislation on June
20. The new watchdog to be established as early as September,
will replace the Nuclear Industrial Safety Agency and the
Nuclear Safety Commission, two regulatory bodies criticized for
their poor handling of the Fukushima disaster.  The Kurokawa report says the collusion between nuclear
regulators and atomic plant operators led to what it called
“regulatory capture,” a state in which oversight of the
nuclear industry effectively ended.  “Outside Japan, some people will try to misuse this report
to say it can’t happen here. The fact is that it can,” Arnie
Gundersen, a U.S.-based former nuclear engineer and licensed
reactor operator, said in an e-mail response.  “Here in the U.S., the industry basically forced out
 Gregory Jaczko  as chair of the  Nuclear Regulatory Commission ,”
Gundersen said, referring to the commission chairman who
resigned amid criticism from the industry for pushing a faster
agenda to toughen safety regulations after Fukushima.  “And of course, The  International Atomic Energy Agency  was
in Japan for decades and never found these problems,” Gundersen
said. “It’s a world-wide problem: the nuclear industry has
taken control of the regulators.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Jacob Adelman in Tokyo at 
 jadelman1@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  