-- Gamesa Expects to Recall Furloughed Workers by Year-End
-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 2012-07-05T21:43:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/gamesa-expects-to-recall-furloughed-workers-by-year-end.html
Gamesa Corp. Tecnologica SA (GAM) ,  Spain ’s
largest wind-turbine company, expects to recall by the end of
this year some furloughed workers from two Pennsylvania
factories as orders from  South America  offset lower demand in
the U.S., where a tax credit is due to expire Dec. 31.  The company gave 165 workers 60 days notice of the
impending furlough this week and expects to recall a portion of
them after about 10 weeks,  David Rosenberg , a spokesman for
Zamudio, Spain-based Gamesa, said today in an interview.  Gamesa expects Congress to renew the Production Tax Credit
after the November election. Wind farms take years to plan and
build, and developers are trimming orders now. Total 2013
installations may fall to 4.9 gigawatts from an estimated 10.5
gigawatts this year if the credit is renewed this year after the
election, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance. That’s
prompted Gamesa to cut its workforce, Rosenberg said.  “The lack of a PTC is the cause for this action,” he
said. “We are dealing with an industry issue, not a Gamesa
issue.”  The furloughed workers will continue to receive benefits
and other aid, he said. Gamesa plans to recall some when it
begins production to meet a 50-megawatt order from Uruguay.
Rosenberg wouldn’t say how many people will be recalled.  Some developers are already eliminating jobs.  Vestas Wind
Systems A/S (VWS) , the biggest turbine maker, said in February it will
fire about 1,600 U.S. workers if the tax credit isn’t renewed.
“We see this hurting everybody,” Rosenberg said.  The Production Tax Credit provides wind-farm owners a 2.2-
cent-a-kilowatt-hour tax credit for electricity produced. Gamesa
expects it to be extended for two years, Rosenburg said. “We
see a lot of bipartisan support in Congress for the PTC.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ehren Goossens in  New York  at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  