-- Spanish, Italian Bonds Slump as ECB Refrains From Extra Measures
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2012-07-05T16:24:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/german-notes-advance-after-ecb-cuts-benchmark-rate-to-record-low.html
Spanish and Italian bonds tumbled as
the  European Central Bank  refrained from announcing any
additional steps to cap debt yields in the two nations after
cutting its benchmark  interest rate  to a record low.  Spain ’s 10-year yields climbed the most in the euro era
after the nation’s borrowing costs increased at an auction amid
concern the debt crisis is worsening. German two-year notes rose
as the ECB also cut its deposit rate to zero to revive the
region’s economy. Speaking in  Frankfurt  after the decision, ECB
President  Mario Draghi  said the council didn’t discuss other
non-standard tools. Spanish and Italian bonds jumped last week
after euro-area leaders expanded steps to combat the turmoil.  “The market was slightly disappointed as it hoped for the
ECB to announce further steps to address the crisis,” said Lyn Graham-Taylor, a fixed-income strategist at Rabobank
International in London. “The ECB may want to keep pressure on
politicians to do their jobs. Our preference remains on core
bonds as we expect the situation in the peripheral markets to
deteriorate in the next few months.”  The Spanish  10-year yield  climbed 37 basis points, or 0.37
percentage point, to 6.78 percent at 5 p.m. in  London  after
rising 43 basis points, the biggest increase since August 1994.
The 5.85 percent bond due in January 2022 dropped 2.45, or 24.50
euros per 1,000-euro ($1,240) face amount, to 93.59.  Italy’s  10-year bond yield  increased 21 basis points to
5.98 percent. It earlier climbed to 6.04 percent, the first time
it has breached the 6 percent level since June 29.  Wider Spread  The extra yield investors demand to hold Spanish 10-year
bonds instead of similar-maturity German bunds widened 44 basis
points to 539 basis points. The spread for Italy expanded 28
basis points to 460 basis points.  The ECB lowered its main  refinancing rate  by 25 basis
points to a record 0.75 percent, as forecast by 49 of 64
economists in a Bloomberg News  survey . Ten predicted no change,
and five forecast a decline to 0.5 percent.  “Downside risks to the euro-area economic outlook have
materialized,” Draghi told reporters. “Economic growth in the
euro area continues to remain weak with heightened uncertainty
weighing on both confidence and sentiment.”  Draghi said he couldn’t see any other measures that would
be effective in a “highly fragmented market.”  Spain sold its benchmark 10-year bond at an average yield
of 6.43 percent, compared with 6.044 percent when the securities
were last auctioned on June 7. The nation also sold debt
maturing in July 2015 and October 2016. Demand for the three-
year notes was 2.28 times the amount sold, down from 3.18 times
in June.  Peripheral Bonds  “There’s still a lot of uncertainty for peripheral bonds
and Draghi made that clear today,” said  Ciaran O’Hagan , head of
European rate strategy at Societe Generale SA in Paris.
“Draghi’s comments illustrate that the economic outlook has
worsened and that details of last week’s summit accord still
need to be worked out between sovereigns.”  Germany ’s two-year note  yield  dropped six basis points to
0.02 percent. The 10-year yield fell seven basis points to 1.38
percent, the lowest level since June 12.  German bonds have returned 2.7 percent this year, according
to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. Spanish securities declined 3.6
percent, and Italian debt gained 9.3 percent.  “Draghi made it very clear the ECB is concerned about the
downside risk in the euro-zone economy,” said Michiel de Bruin,
who oversees $30 billion as head of euro  government bonds  at F&C
Netherlands in Amsterdam. “This should continue to underpin
demand for safety, and benefit core bonds like German bunds.”  The case for lower interest rates was buoyed by a report
from the European Union’s statistics office on July 2 showing
euro-area unemployment reached the highest on record. Retail
 sales  in Germany,  Europe ’s biggest economy, fell 0.3 percent in
May from the previous month, the Federal Statistics Office in
Wiesbaden said June 29.  Euribor interest-rate futures rose, with implied yields on
the December contract falling four basis points to 0.42 percent,
as traders added to bets borrowing costs will fall further.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  