-- German Stocks Fall For Second Day as Dragi Points to Risk
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2012-07-05T16:00:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/german-stocks-fall-for-second-day-as-dragi-points-to-risk.html
German stocks declined after European
Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said risks to the euro area
economy are on the downside, offsetting optimism about  interest
rate  cuts in  Europe  and  China .  Merck KgaA (MRK)  dropped 2.3 percent after its Erbitux cancer
treatment failed to help patients with advanced stomach tumors.
 Commerzbank AG (CBK)  led financial shares lower as Spanish and Italian
bonds dropped.  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  gained 5.1 percent after reaching
an agreement with Germany’s tax authorities to buy a 50.1
percent stake in Porsche SE.  The  DAX Index (DAX)  declined 0.5 percent to 6,535.56 at the close
in Frankfurt. The gauge has still climbed 9.5 percent from its
2012 low on June 5 as  Greece  formed a new government and
European leaders agreed to address flaws in their bailout
programs. The broader HDAX Index also fell 0.5 percent today.  “The ECB cutting the lending rate to zero is good news in
the short term, but shows the bank is running out of weapons to
fight the crisis,” said Witold Bahrke, a senior strategist at
PFA Pension A/S in Copenhagen, where he helps oversee $55
billion. “ Monetary policy  is no longer the game changer we
need. Politicians in China, the U.S. and Europe must address
fiscal policy imbalances to get economies back on track.”  The ECB lowered its  benchmark interest rate  below 1 percent
for the first time, cutting it by 25 basis points to a record
low of 0.75 percent, and reduced its deposit rate to zero,
matching the mean forecast of a  Bloomberg News survey  of
economists.  Downside Risks  Some “downside risks to the euro-area economic outlook
have materialized,” Draghi said at a press conference in
Frankfurt today. “Economic growth in the euro area continues to
remain weak with heightened uncertainty weighing on both
confidence and sentiment.”  China cut interest rates and allowed banks to offer bigger
discounts on their lending costs, stepping up efforts to reverse
a slowdown in its economy. China’s one-year lending rate will
fall by 31 basis points and the one-year deposit rate will drop
by 25 basis points effective tomorrow, the People’s Bank of
China said.  The  Bank of England  restarted bond purchases two months
after halting its expansion of stimulus as the deteriorating
outlook spurred policy makers to ramp up efforts to kick start a
recovery.  The Monetary Policy Committee led by Governor  Mervyn King 
raised its asset-purchase target by 50 billion pounds ($78
billion) to 375 billion pounds and said it expects the purchases
to take four months to complete. Thirty of 41 economists had
forecast the move in a Bloomberg News  survey .  Policy makers also left their  benchmark rate  at a record
low of 0.5 percent today, a move forecast by all but one of 50
economists in a Bloomberg survey.  Factory Orders  Factory orders in  Germany  unexpectedly rebounded in May,
driven by demand from the euro region.  Orders, adjusted for seasonal swings and inflation, rose
0.6 percent from April, when they declined a revised 1.4
percent, the Economy Ministry in Berlin said today. Economists
forecast orders would hold steady in May, according to the
median of 36 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  Companies in the U.S. added 176,000 workers in June,
according to figures from Roseland, New Jersey-based ADP
Employer Services.  The median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News called for a 100,000 advance. Estimates of the 35
economists ranged from gains of 50,000 to 150,000.  Merck Slides  Merck, the Darmstadt, Germany-based drugmaker, slid 2.3
percent to 78.14 euros. Its Erbitux cancer treatment failed to
help patients with advanced stomach tumors in a late-stage
clinical trial, as the drug, combined with two other medicines,
didn’t extend the length of time that patients lived without
their disease, the company said in a statement today.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and Commerzbank, the  biggest German
lenders , dropped 1.6 percent to 28.73 euros and 2.4 percent to
1.29 euros, respectively. A gauge of banks made the biggest
contribution to the  Stoxx 600 Index’s (SXXP)  drop today as Spanish and
Italian bonds slid after the ECB refrained from announcing more
measures to cap borrowing costs in so-called peripheral nations.  Daimler AG, the maker of Mercedes luxury coupes and trucks,
fell 1.3 percent to 36.55 euros.  VW climbed 5 percent to 134.50 euros after Europe’s largest
carmaker agreed to buy the controlling stake in Porsche’s
automotive business for 4.46 billion euros, ending a seven-year
takeover saga that has divided two of Germany’s most powerful
families. Porsche slid 1.2 percent to 41.46 euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  