-- Germany’s Factory Orders Unexpectedly Rebounded in May: Economy
-- B y   J o s e p h   d e   W e c k
-- 2012-07-05T11:13:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/german-factory-orders-unexpectedly-rose-on-euro-area-demand-1-.html
German factory orders unexpectedly
rebounded in May, suggesting  Europe ’s largest economy maintained
some growth momentum into the second quarter.  Orders, adjusted for seasonal swings and inflation, rose
0.6 percent from April, when they declined a revised 1.4
percent, the Economy Ministry in Berlin said today. Economists
forecast orders would hold steady in May, according to the
median of 36 estimates in a  Bloomberg News survey . From a year
earlier, orders fell 5.4 percent when adjusted for work days.  German exports and record-low unemployment have helped
insulate the economy from the euro area’s debt crisis and fueled
an expansion of 0.5 percent in the first quarter. Still, with at
least seven euro nations in recession and governments struggling
to contain the turmoil, German business confidence fell in June.
The  European Central Bank  may cut  interest rates  today in an
effort to stimulate growth and lending.  “So far, the German economy was clearly outperforming its
euro-zone neighbors, giving the impression that it’s nearly
immune to the stress elsewhere,” said Evelyn Herrmann, an
economist at BNP Paribas SA in  London . “Given the recent
development in orders, production is likely to stabilize only
slowly over the next months.”  The euro was little changed after the release, trading at
$1.2506 at 1:08 p.m. in  Frankfurt , down 0.2 percent on the day.
 Germany ’s benchmark  DAX Index (DAX)  advanced 0.8 percent.  ‘Stronger Impulses’  Orders from the euro region jumped 7.7 percent in May after
dropping 1.3 percent in April, today’s report showed. Domestic
orders fell 1.3 percent in the month and demand from non euro-
region nations slipped 0.8 percent.  “Industrial orders continue to point upward,” the
ministry said in the statement. “With some big swings due to
orders of big-ticket items in some months, the slightly stronger
impulses come from abroad. There’s also a solid order dynamic at
home.”  German  industrial production  probably rose 0.2 percent in
May from the previous month, when it fell 2.2 percent, according
to a Bloomberg survey. The ministry will release the report
tomorrow at noon.  Rising wages and unemployment at a two-decade low have
helped support domestic demand. The Bundesbank last month raised
its 2012 growth forecast to 1 percent from 0.6 percent, citing
domestic consumption. That compares with a European Commission
forecast for a 0.3 percent economic contraction in the euro area
as a whole.  ECB Cut  The ECB will probably lower the benchmark interest rate by
25 basis points to 0.75 percent, matching a fresh record, when
council members meet in Frankfurt, according to a Bloomberg
survey. The central bank will announce its decision at 1:30 p.m.  Since the central bank’s last rate decision, euro-area
economic confidence has slumped to the lowest in more than 2 1/2
years in June, services and manufacturing output contracted for
a fifth month and unemployment rose to a record in May.  “The foundations for an ECB rate cut at today’s meeting
look to be firmly in place,” said Michael Derks, chief
strategist at FXPro Financial Services Ltd. in London. “The
recent run of data since the last meeting, both within the  euro
zone  and beyond, has strengthened the case for lower rates, with
the global economy looking less assured.”  China , U.S.  In China, some parts of the economy may have slowed further
in June, based on preliminary results of analyst surveys by
Bloomberg. Growth in exports may have fallen to 10.5 percent in
June from a year earlier compared with 15.3 percent in May,
while expansion in retail sales weakened by 0.3 percentage point
to 13.5 percent, median estimates show.  U.S. service industries probably grew in June at a slower
pace, a sign the world’s largest economy is struggling to
maintain momentum, a Bloomberg survey shows. The  Institute for
Supply Management ’s index of non-manufacturing businesses,
covering about 90 percent of the economy, fell to 53 from 53.7
in May, the survey showed ahead of a report later today.  Still, the  Bank of Japan  today raised its economic
evaluation of all regions for the first time in more than two
years, citing improvements in  consumer spending  and rebuilding
demand from last year’s earthquake. Governor Masaaki Shirakawa
said the economy is starting to pick up, pledging to pursue
appropriate policy. It will review its forecasts for growth and
inflation for the 2012 and 2013 fiscal years at the policy
meeting next week.  Global Uncertainty  With the global economy showing some signs of slowdown,
exporters may struggle to maintain their sales growth.  Infineon
Technologies AG (IFX) , Europe’s second-largest semiconductor maker,
said last month that revenue declined in the three months
through June amid global economic uncertainty. Bayerische
Motoren Werke AG’s head of sales and marketing in Germany,
Karsten Engel, said on May 31 that Germany’s car market won’t
grow in 2012 as the crisis curbs spending.  “Sentiment in the German economy has deteriorated
massively,” said Rainer Sartoris, an economist at  HSBC Trinkaus
& Burkhardt AG (TUB)  in Dusseldorf. “German exporters are suffering
as the economies of Spain and  Italy  plummet and the global
economy loses momentum.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph de Weck in Frankfurt at 
 jdeweck@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  