-- Glaxo Pleads Guilty, Fined $1 Billion in Drug-Marketing Case
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2012-07-05T20:18:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/glaxo-pleads-guilty-fined-1-billion-in-drug-marketing-case-1-.html
GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  pleaded guilty to
illegal promotion of two drugs and failure to provide clinical
data on another as part of a $3 billion settlement announced
earlier with the U.S., the  Justice Department  said.  U.S. District Judge Rya A. Zobel in  Boston  orderd Glaxo to
pay a criminal fine of $956.8 million and forfeit $43 million,
the DOJ said today. Glaxo and the U.S. reported July 2 that the
company had agreed to plead guilty and pay $1 billion in a
criminal fine and forfeiture.  The $3 billion settlement, the largest-ever in a health-
care fraud case in the U.S., includes $2 billion in civil
payments to the U.S. and the states. The settlement also
requires Glaxo to abolish incentive compensation for its sales
force and publish all GSK human research studies, not just those
with positive outcomes for the company’s drugs, the DOJ said.  “With these groundbreaking changes, GSK has committed to
putting patients before profits; science before sales,” Carmen Ortiz, U.S. attorney for the District of  Massachusetts , said in
a statement today. “We hope the rest of the pharmaceutical
industry follows suit.”  GSK pleaded guilty to marketing the depression medications
Paxil and Wellbutrin for uses not approved by the U.S. Food and
Drug Administration and for failing to report clinical data on
Avandia, a diabetes drug, federal prosecutors said.  Unapproved Uses  Under federal law, while doctors are allowed to prescribe
medications for unapproved uses, drug companies are barred from
promoting such sales. Promotion by a manufacturer for off-label
uses renders the product misbranded, the U.S. said July 2. GSK
pleaded guilty to misbranding Paxil and Wellbutrin, the U.S.
said.  The $3 billion total settlement surpasses the previous
record, a $2.3 billion accord that Pfizer Inc. entered in 2009
over marketing of the painkiller Bextra and other drugs.  Glaxo, the U.K.’s largest drugmaker, last year set aside
2.2 billion pounds ($3.4 billion) to cover the cost of the
settlement, which resolves a seven-year investigation of the
company’s marketing practices for the three drugs. The reserve
brought to $6.4 billion the amount the drugmaker has set aside
for legal costs tied to Avandia and the other medicines.  Federal prosecutors began an investigation in  Colorado  in
2004, later taken over by the U.S. attorney in Massachusetts,
into whether Glaxo promoted drugs for unapproved uses and into
ways Glaxo potentially influenced doctors. The probe concerned
nine of the company’s best-selling products from 1997 to 2004,
including the Advair lung treatment, Glaxo said in its annual
report.  The case is U.S. v. GlaxoSmithKline LLC, 12-10206, U.S.
District Court, District of Massachusetts (Boston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield,  Michigan , at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 