-- Goldman Adds Structured Note Value Disclosure After SEC Request
-- B y   M a t t   R o b i n s o n
-- 2012-07-05T17:56:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/goldman-adds-structured-note-value-disclosure-after-sec-request.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  has begun
disclosing its own valuations for structured notes in offering
prospectuses, after the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
recommended that banks include such an estimate.  The U.S. regulator advised banks to add “fair value”
disclosures in a  letter  to lenders it didn’t identify that was
posted on its website April 13.  “We believe issuers should consider prominently disclosing
the difference between the public offering price of the note”
and the fair value estimated by the issuer or its affiliate, the
SEC said in its April letter.  In a May 15 offering from Goldman Sachs of “Absolute
Return Knock-Out Notes,” the bank wrote that the securities are
“equal to approximately  $960 per $1,000 ” note issued. A
similar May 4 deal lacked such details, instead using language
that the price received for the notes may be “significantly
less than the  original issue price ,” according to prospectuses
filed with the SEC.  The bank’s earliest use of valuation estimates was in mid-
May, according to a search of SEC records online.  Tiffany Galvin, a New York-based spokeswoman, declined to
comment.  The U.S. structured-note industry has come under scrutiny
from regulators for the securities’ complexity and lack of
 transparency . Banks sold $45.9 billion of SEC-registered
securities in 2011, down from a record $49.5 billion a year
earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The SEC, which requested a written reply to its letter
within 10 days, also asked the issuers to explain how they set
up a secondary market for the notes, how they use the proceeds
raised from sales and how important the business is to their
funding needs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matt Robinson  in  New York  at 
 mrobinson55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 