-- Greece Must Push Reforms for Investment, UN Institution Says
-- B y   E l e n i   C h r e p a
-- 2012-07-05T15:08:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/greece-must-push-reforms-for-investment-un-institution-says.html
Greece ’s government and its lenders
should stop focusing on cuts to labor costs as the main avenue
to attract foreign investment and redouble efforts to improve
the country’s infrastructure and bureaucracy, according to
speakers at a United Nations Conference on Trade and Development
press conference in  Athens  today.  “Labor-cost cuts is not a sustainable policy to attract
foreign investment to the country,” Marina Papanastasiou, an
UNCTAD representative for Greece said during a presentation of
the Switzerland-based organization’s world investment report for
2011. Greece needs a “targeted, integrated policy that will
focus on exports, foreign investment, small and medium size
businesses and privatizations,” she said.  Frequent changes to laws and tax policies, in part under
pressure from international lenders to implement structural
reforms since the country’s first bailout in May 2010 have
created an unattractive and unstable environment for foreign
investors, speakers at the press conference said. Greece’s
potential to attract foreign investment lies in a high quality
labor force at a relatively low cost along with natural
resources.  Greece’s investment attraction ranked 142 out of 181
countries, according to UNCTAD’s report, below that of Pakistan
and Macedonia. Its potential boosted it to 59th place of 177,
based on the country’s combination of market attractiveness,
labor force cost and skills ratio, natural resources and
infrastructure.  The country attracted just $1.8 million in foreign direct
investment last year, most of which came from recapitalizations
of companies based in Greece through their parent companies
abroad, from $373 million in 2010, according to UNCTAD. Foreign
direct investment deposits fell to $27.4 million in 2011, from
$35 million the year before.  The  United Nations Conference on Trade and Development ,
founded in 1964, is an institution which works together with the
governments of 194 member-countries to promote the  integration
of  developing countries  into the world economy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eleni Chrepa in Athens at 
 echrepa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  