-- Li Ning Founder, TPG Executive to Lead as CEO Leaves
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n   a n d   J u s t i n a   L e e
-- 2012-07-05T10:54:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/li-ning-s-olympic-gymnast-founder-to-run-retailer-as-ceo-quits.html
Li Ning Co. (2331)  surged in Hong Kong
trading after its chief executive officer stepped down and
private-equity firm TPG Capital said it could boost investment
in the sportswear retailer if needed.  Founder and Olympic gymnast Li Ning will help run the
company while it searches for a new CEO to replace Zhang Zhi Yong, according to a statement from the company. Kim Jin Goon, a
partner at TPG Capital that invested in the retailer this year,
will be executive vice chairman.  “We will make that decision when the company needs
capital,” Kim said today at a press conference in Hong Kong
when asked about TPG’s investment. “If it makes sense for the
company and TPG, we’ll be very happy to do that.”  Li Ning ’s  profit  plunged 65 percent last year amid
escalating competition from  Nike Inc. (NKE) ,  Adidas AG (ADS) , and  Anta
Sports Products Ltd. (2020)  The company said in January that it would
sell 750 million yuan ($118 million) of convertible bonds to TPG
Capital and  Singapore ’s sovereign fund to raise money for more
stores and product development.  The stock rose 7.3 percent to HK$5.03, the most since Feb.
9, at the close of Hong Kong trading. It is down 18.5 percent
this year compared with a 7.5 percent gain for the benchmark
 Hang Seng Index .  “Investors have expectations that with the resignation of
the former CEO, the company can do better next year,” said
Jerry Peng, an analyst at Guotai Junan Securities Co. in
Shenzhen. “TPG has quite strong retail experience and now
they’re playing a bigger role, so the market has high
expectations for next year.”  Clearing Inventory  The retailer said it will seek to improve results through
marketing investments, and clearing its inventory. Li Ning won’t
rule out raising capital although it currently doesn’t have
plans to do so, Kim said.  “The sportswear industry in  China  has suffered from over
expansion,” Kim said. “Growth in supply exceeded the pace in
demand, leading to a short-term saturation.”  Adidas’s Greater China sales  jumped  23 percent to 1.2
billion euros ($1.5 billion) in 2011, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Nike’s Greater China revenue climbed 23 percent to
$2.5 billion in the year ended May.  “I think Li Ning’s brand positioning is not quite clear,”
said Peng. “Li Ning is actually trying to increase retail
prices to be close to Nike and Adidas in the past several years,
but domestic customers still prefer international brands if the
price is similar.”  Falling Profit  Hong Kong-traded Anta reported a 20 percent sales increase
in 2011 even as Li Ning’s sales dropped 5.8 percent to 8.9
billion  yuan .  Li Ning’s profit for the year ended Dec. 31 fell to 386
million yuan from 1.1 billion yuan a year earlier. Profit will
have a “rather substantial decline” this year amid higher
marketing expenses and an impairment loss on a brand licensing
business, the company said in a June statement.  Founder Li Ning was the  final torchbearer  at the opening
ceremony of the 2008 Beijing  Olympic Games . He won three gold,
two silver and one bronze medals in the 23rd Los Angeles Olympic
Games in 1984, and founded the company after retiring from
athletics, according to the company’s annual report.  Zhang will continue as an executive director of the company
and will act as the chief adviser to the executive committee of
the board to “ensure a smooth transition” until a replacement
is found, the company said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Vinicy Chan in  Hong Kong  at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net ;
Justina Lee in Hong Kong at 
 jlee1245@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  