-- Libor Probe, SIPC Suit, Bank Resolution Plans: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-07-05T12:20:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/libor-probe-sipc-suit-bank-resolution-plans-compliance.html
Barclays Plc (BCS)  saved itself 25.5
million pounds ($40 million) in fines by moving first to settle
a probe over the rigging of global interest rates. In return, it
has lost three top executives,  $5 billion  of market value and
sparked a government inquiry.  Barclays, the U.K’s second-largest lender by assets, is one
of at least 12 banks including  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and HSBC Holdings
Plc under investigation for manipulating the London interbank
offered rate. The decision to cooperate with regulators before
its competitors in exchange for more lenient treatment has
backfired, analysts and investors say.  Chief Executive Officer  Robert Diamond , under pressure from
policy makers and investors, resigned July 3 after the bank was
fined a record 290 million pounds last week for rigging Libor as
well as Euribor, its equivalent in euros, starting as early as
2005. Diamond, 60, faced questions from lawmakers at a Treasury
Select Committee hearing July 3 on how the bank failed to
prevent the abuse of a benchmark used to set interest payments
on $500 trillion of securities from mortgages to swaps.  Libor and Euribor are calculated by a survey of banks’
daily estimates of how much it would cost them to borrow from
one another for different time frames and in different
currencies. Because submissions aren’t based on real trades, the
potential exists for the benchmark to be manipulated by traders
hoping to profit on where the rate is set. Barclays’s executives
also were downplaying their borrowing costs by making low
submissions to avoid the perception they were in trouble,
according to regulators.  For more, click here and click here, and click here.  Separately, the penalty imposed by regulators on a bank
involved in the daily setting of the London interbank offered
rate may foreshadow changes that might trigger a rate increase,
according to  Credit Suisse Group AG. (CSGN)   Barclays Plc (BARC)  was fined a record 290 million pounds ($451.4
million) last week after admitting it submitted false London and
euro interbank offered rates. Robert Diamond resigned July 3 as
chief executive officer, succumbing to political pressure to go
after the bank admitted to rigging global interest rates.  The process guiding submissions for the daily Libor rate,
the benchmark rate for $360 trillion of securities, is likely to
be altered given the regulatory issues and legal challenges
associated with the setting, Credit Suisse strategists say.  The Commodity Futures Trading Commission, among the
regulators that levied the fine against Barclays, has laid out a
hierarchy of transactions or instruments that panel member banks
should consider when deciding on what rate to submit in the
daily Libor fixing.  A possible change in the daily fixing process could include
the British Banking Association increasing the number of banks
in the survey, Credit Suisse wrote in a separate report
published on June 28.  For more, click here.  Separately, Barclays’s settlement with regulators offered
the first glimpse of what banks may have to pay to resolve a
global probe of interest-rate manipulation. The question now is
who’s next.  The two-year investigation, which involves regulators on
three continents, has touched as many as 18 financial
institutions that help set London and Tokyo interbank offered
rates for dollars, euros and yen. That number includes as many
as 12 firms that have fired or suspended traders in connection
with related internal probes of whether their employees tried to
manipulate the rates known as Libor and Tibor.  The span of the investigation has prompted at least one
regulator to ask for more time, according to a person with
knowledge of the matter. The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission recently sent out so-called tolling agreements in
which the banks would waive their right to claim a lawsuit
should be thrown out if a five-year statute of limitations has
elapsed, said the person, who asked not to be identified because
the agreements aren’t public.  CFTC spokesman  Steven Adamske  declined to comment.  Regulators including the U.K. Financial Services Authority
and U.S. Justice Department have signaled more claims are on the
way. Along with the regulatory scrutiny, many of the banks face
private lawsuits related to the alleged conduct.  For more, click here.  Diamond’s Own Words on Quitting Barclays, Libor Rigging  Robert Diamond, who quit July 3 as chief executive officer
of Barclays Plc, spoke before the U.K. Treasury Select Committee
in the House of Commons in London about the lender’s involvement
in rigging interest rates. He sought to blame other banks for
misleading markets about their ability to borrow and regulators
for turning a blind eye.  Ordered to testify to British lawmakers after Barclays
agreed to pay a record 290-million-pound ($455 million) fine for
rigging the London interbank offered rate, Diamond said
yesterday he was “disappointed” regulators failed to act on
repeated warnings from Barclays that competitors had lowballed
their submissions. Legislators challenged him on why he took so
long to uncover his own firm’s attempts to manipulate the rate.  For part one of the video, click here.  For part two of the video, click here.  Osborne, Lecocq, Bove, Magnus Own Words on Robert Diamond  U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne , Deutsche
Bank Private Wealth Management Chief Investment Officer Kevin
Lecocq, Rochdale Securities analyst Richard Bove and  UBS AG (UBSN) 
senior economic adviser George Magnus discussed Robert Diamond’s
resignation as Chief Executive Officer of Barclays Plc.  Axa Framlington Investment Management senior fund manager
Mark Hargraves, SVM Asset Management CEO Colin McLean,  Cenkos
Securities Plc (CNKS)  banking analyst Sandy Chen and former U.K.
Financial Services Authority Chairman Howard Davies also spoke.  For the video, click here.  Hoban Says Bank Leadership Not a Matter for Government  U.K.  Treasury  Minister Mark Hoban discussed Robert
Diamond’s move to step down as chief executive officer of
Barclays Plc and possible criminal sanctions against those who
breach further regulations on the Libor rate.  He spoke with  Guy Johnson  on Bloomberg Television’s “City
Central.”  For the video, click here.  Chen Says Barclays Should Replace Diamond With Outsider  Sandy Chen, a banking analyst at Cenkos Securities Plc,
talked about the process of replacing Robert Diamond, who
stepped down as Barclays Plc’s chief executive officer July 3.  He spoke with Maryam Nemazee on Bloomberg Television’s
“The Pulse.”  For the video, click here.  Compliance Policy  Global Anti-Counterfeiting Treaty Voted Down by EU Parliament  European Union lawmakers rejected a global anti-piracy
treaty, stalling the bloc’s approval for the accord aimed at
preventing counterfeiting worldwide.  The European Parliament voted 478-39 with 165 abstentions
yesterday to reject the treaty, the parliament’s press service
said.  The agreement, known as ACTA, is intended to set global
rules for cracking down on the pirating of copyrighted
materials, including illegal file sharing on the Internet.
Protesters in European countries including Germany have
complained that the treaty may harm freedom of expression and
information sharing online.  Some 2.8 million people signed a petition asking the
parliament to vote against the treaty, the parliament’s press
service said, describing a campaign of “unprecedented direct
lobbying.”  The European Commission, the bloc’s executive arm, tried to
soothe concerns that the accord may alter EU law on punishing
copyright infringements by asking the EU courts to rule on
whether it violates fundamental rights, including freedom of
speech.  In addition to the EU, signatories include the U.S., Japan
and South Korea. The accord must be ratified by all 27 EU
governments before it can come into effect.  Compliance Action  Japan’s DPJ Urges Insider-Trading Probe of 20 Offerings  Japan’s ruling party urged regulators to pursue a wider
investigation of insider trading after finding spikes in
transaction volumes of 20 stocks before public offerings.  The  Democratic Party of Japan  asked the Tokyo Stock
Exchange to provide a list of the 10 investors who sold the most
shares the day before the companies announced issuances between
July 2009 and July 2011, said  Tsutomu Okubo , head of a party
panel studying the issue.  Lawmakers are examining whether insider trading before
stock sales is more widespread than the cases involving four
offerings uncovered by regulators since March. The crackdown has
centered on short-selling based on tips provided by underwriters
including  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) , which last week suspended some
businesses and cut top executives’ pay over the scandal.  The lawmakers distributed a document compiled by the
exchange showing the transaction volume for companies including
 All Nippon Airways Co. (9202) , which announced a share sale in July
2009, and  Resona Holdings Inc. (8308) , which unveiled an offering in
January 2011. The list also includes Senshu Ikeda Holdings Inc.,
Nippon Yusen KK, Shinsei Bank Ltd. and Hitachi Ltd.  Nomura last month acknowledged its employees leaked
information before issuances by  Inpex Corp. (1605) , Mizuho Financial
Group Inc. and Tokyo Electric Power Co. in 2010.  Financial Services Minister Tadahiro Matsushita this week
called on 12 local brokerages to review how they handle
confidential data. The Tokyo Stock Exchange plans to inspect
about 30 Japanese and foreign brokerages to determine how they
guard information, a senior bourse official said last month.  Nomura last week pledged to improve how it handles private
information after completing an internal probe headed by a team
of outside lawyers.  Big Banks’ ‘Living Wills’ Promise Bankruptcy Instead of Bailouts  U.S. regulators, seeking to prevent a repeat of taxpayer-
funded bailouts of the financial system, released summaries of
plans for breaking up nine of the world’s largest banks in the
event of an emergency.  The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. posted the public
portions of so-called living wills on its  website  July 3 as
required by the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act. The documents outline more
detailed proposals submitted privately to regulators describing
how the companies can be dismantled if they fail.  The banks required to file are  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Bank
of America Corp. (BAC) , Citigroup Inc.,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,
 Morgan Stanley (MS) , Barclays Plc,  Deutsche Bank AG (DB) ,  Credit Suisse
Group AG (CS)  and  UBS AG. (UBS)   The aim of the living wills is to give regulators a plan
for shutting down complex financial firms without taxpayer
bailouts or the turmoil that followed the 2008 collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  Banks with more than $250 billion in nonbank assets were
the first of an eventual 125 firms required to produce
liquidation plans.  Spain Court to Probe Bankia on Events Leading to Bank Rescue  A Spanish judge will investigate the  Bankia (BKIA)  group and its
former Chairman  Rodrigo Rato  after the lender needed a record
government bailout.  Fernando Andreu, a judge at the National Court in Madrid,
agreed to investigate a complaint made by  Union, Progreso y
Democracia , a left-wing party, over allegations including
deception, false accounting and fraudulent administration,
according to a ruling distributed by the court today. The judge
will probe Bankia, its parent and 33 board members including the
63-year-old Rato.  The judge will look into the initial public offering of
Bankia SA in July of last year, the restatement of its  earnings 
that turned up 2.79 billion euros ($3.5 billion) of losses, and
Spain’s takeover and rescue of the Bankia group with 23.5
billion euros of state support. Spain nationalized the parent
company last week after experts appointed by the country’s bank
rescue fund said it had a negative value of 13.6 billion euros.  A Bankia official declined to comment when reached by
phone. A call to Caja Madrid, where Rato is chairman, went
unanswered. The decision made public yesterday can still be
appealed, the judge said in his ruling.  The Bankia group was formed in 2010 from the merger of
seven savings banks, including Caja Madrid and Bancaja. The
shares of Bankia SA have lost three-quarters of their value
since the IPO.  ASIC Says It’s Examining Proposed Offer for David Jones  The Australian  Securities & Investments Commission  says it
has been “monitoring developments closely” since an offer for
 David Jones Ltd. (DJS)  was made public on June 29 and its withdrawal
on July 2, according to statement on regulator’s website.  David Jones is an Australian department-store retailer and
credit-card operator.  Consistent with its usual practice, ASIC is looking at
potential issues regarding disclosure and trading in David Jones
stock both by domestic and international parties.  ASIC said its priority is to ensure market integrity is
maintained and markets are fair, orderly and transparent. It
will also take care that in the event there has been a breach of
the law, those responsible are held to account, according to the
statement on its website.  Courts  Banks Ask New York Judge to Throw Out Libor Antitrust Lawsuits  More than a dozen banks including Citigroup Inc. and Bank
of America Corp. asked a U.S. judge to dismiss a group of
lawsuits in which they are accused of trying to manipulate the
London interbank offered rate.  Plaintiffs including the City of Baltimore and New Britain
Firefighters’ Benefit Fund sued the banks in 2011, contending
they “suppressed” the Libor.  Lawyers for UBS AG wrote in court papers filed June 30 in
U.S. District Court in New York that the allegations don’t
support the legal claim.  In an amended consolidated complaint filed this year,
plaintiffs claim an analysis by outside consultants found Libor
was suppressed from 2007 to 2008, allowing the banks to mask
their level of risk during a period of financial crisis.  The consolidated case is In re Libor-Based Financial
Instruments Antitrust Litigation, 11-MD-2262, Southern District
of New York (Manhattan).  For more, see Libor Probe special section, above.  SEC Loses Bid to Force SIPC Coverage for Stanford Investors  The  Securities Investor Protection Corp.  isn’t required to
begin a claims process in Texas for the victims of R. Allen
Stanford’s $7 billion investment fraud, a federal judge ruled.  U.S. District Judge Robert Wilkins in Washington July 3
said that regulators failed to show that the 7,000 brokerage
clients who invested in the Ponzi scheme are entitled to have
their losses covered by SIPC, a nonprofit corporation funded by
the brokerage industry.  Wilkins, while expressing sympathy for the victims,
declined to order the relief.  The Securities and Exchange Commission told SIPC on June
15, 2001, to start a process that could grant as much as
$500,000 for each Stanford client -- the same maximum amount it
offers in any case. After SIPC balked, the SEC for the first
time sued the congressionally chartered group.  SIPC argued in court there’s no basis to require it to
guarantee investments with an entity that isn’t a member, such
as Antigua-based Stanford International Bank Ltd.  A federal jury in Houston convicted Stanford on March 8 on
13 of 14 charges brought in connection with the Ponzi scheme. He
was sentenced on June 14 to 110 years in prison.  John Nester, an SEC spokesman, didn’t immediately respond
to a telephone message seeking comment on the ruling.  The case is Securities and Exchange Commission v.
Securities Investor Protection Corp., 11-mc-00678, U.S. District
Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  Comings and Goings  Wal-Mart’s Castro-Wright Retires Amid Mexico Bribery Probe  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  Vice Chairman Eduardo Castro-Wright, a
key figure in a bribery probe at the company’s Mexico
operations, retired on July 1.  The Justice Department and U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission are probing allegations the Bentonville, Arkansas-
based retailer approved as much as $24 million in bribes as
recently as 2005, when Castro-Wright ran the Mexico business.
Castro-Wright retired on schedule, David Tovar, a Wal-Mart
spokesman, said in an e-mail.  His departure marks the end of an 11-year career at the
world’s largest retailer. Besides presiding over rapid growth in
Mexico, Castro-Wright also started Project Impact in the U.S., a
failed plan to focus on fast-selling products while thinning the
assortment Wal-Mart was long known for.  Castro-Wright, 57, led Wal-Mart de Mexico SA from August
2001 until February 2005.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New York at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  