-- A Guide to the Libyan Elections
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-07-05T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/libyan-election-needs-to-be-followed-by-smart-investments.html
Libya holds its first free elections
in almost 50 years on Saturday. Prepare to be confused, and try
not to be too dismayed by the results.  The vote has been delayed once already, from June 19;
federalists in the oil-rich east of the country have called for
a boycott and stormed election commission centers; Islamist
militants recently attacked Western targets, including the U.S.
and British consuls; and international monitoring will be light,
limited to a few dozen people from the  European Union , the U.S.
 Carter Center  and the  Arab League .  In other words, this will be at best a  messy  process --
less than what  Barack Obama ’s administration and other Western
governments might have wished to see from their showcase
military intervention in the  Middle East .  Still, many of Libya’s problems are due to the lack of
legitimacy of the National Transitional Council, the self-
appointed body that has run the country since last year’s
uprising, and that’s something Saturday’s elections  can help  to
fix. A successful vote is a vital prerequisite for addressing
Libya’s fundamental weakness: the lack of effective, trusted
institutions left behind after 42 years of arbitrary rule by
Colonel  Muammar Qaddafi .  There are some  causes  for hope. First,  Libya  has already
had successful municipal elections in Misrata and Benghazi.
Second, the national vote is part of a sound plan. The 200-seat
parliament that’s chosen will replace the council, appoint a
prime minister and select a 60-member constituent assembly to
draft a constitution, which will then be put to a referendum.
Third, the council’s members pushed hard to keep on schedule an
election that will eliminate their jobs. All good news,
particularly when compared with, say, the behavior of Egypt’s
transitional rulers.  Another point: The mere fact that Libya’s ruling council
succeeded in registering 80 percent of the potential electorate
from a standing start is a sign of the enthusiasm among Libyans
for governing themselves.  On the economic side, Libya has oil. Production was back to
about 1.45 million barrels a day in May, according to the
 International Energy Agency , compared with about 1.77 million
barrels before the uprising. Full recovery is expected by the
end of the year. With a population of less than 7 million, Libya
was one of Africa’s wealthiest nations per capita, but little
oil money reached ordinary citizens under Qaddafi. As much as
oil revenue can trigger disputes and destabilize Libya, it can
also be a powerful tool for any new government that chooses to
be less rapacious.  So what about the Islamists? As in Egypt and Tunisia, they
are Libya’s best-organized political force and likely to do
well. Libya’s Islamists, however, are a comparatively heterodox
and divided bunch. Libya’s tensions are more local, in some
areas tribal, than religious.  Libya’s future will be made or broken by the ability of the
dominant Tripoli region to compromise with the rest of the
country over the distribution of power and control of oil
resources. The transitional council already made some
concessions, including an agreement that the new constitutional
assembly be drawn equally from the three regions. One has to
take this as an encouraging sign.  France , the U.K., the U.S. and others involved are rightly
keeping a low profile ahead of the vote. After the election,
however, Libya will need more concerted help in institution
building. In particular, it will need technical support from
model oil exporters such as  Norway  and institutions such as the
 World Bank  to ensure that oil revenue is accounted for and well
used. Any new government should make an early priority of
joining international efforts such as the  Extractive Industries
Transparency Initiative , aimed at opening the sector to public
scrutiny.  Turkey , the U.S. and others should also step up
support for retraining an estimated 125,000 militia members and
absorbing some of them into the police and the armed forces.  As the  International Monetary Fund   has said , Libya’s
transitional government responded to halted oil production and
mass (armed) unemployment by handing out public-sector jobs and
wages as a form of welfare. The policy was understandable, but
it’s unsustainable. Fortunately, Libya has the resources to
invest in diversifying its economy and creating private sector
jobs beyond those in hydrocarbons.  If Saturday’s elections are messy, but largely free and
with wide participation, they should be seen as a starting point
to accelerate efforts to build institutions in Libya. That’s the
best way to ensure that the country, and by extension its
neighbors, are spared the biggest pitfalls of the Arab Spring.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on what ex-Barclays CEO  Robert
Diamond   should have been asked  by members of Parliament;
 Jonathan Weil  on  what else might be amiss  at Barclays; Stephen
L. Carter on the  uselessness of the vice presidency ;  Noah
Feldman  explains why  liberals should be happy  with the  Supreme
Court ;  Enrique Krauze  on  democracy and new leadership  in  Mexico ;
Vali Nasr on the U.S.  apology to Pakistan ; William Pesek on
 economic development in the Mekong River region .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 