-- Tim’s Cheap Phones Make It Americas’ Top Pick: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   L u c i a   K a s s a i   a n d   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2012-07-05T13:42:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/tim-s-cheap-phones-make-it-americas-top-pick-corporate-brazil.html
Tim Participacoes SA (TIMP3) ’s strategy to
focus its mobile-phone sales on  Brazil ’s lower-income families
is making the stock the industry’s top pick in the Americas.  Tim, the Brazilian unit of  Italy ’s largest phone company,
has a consensus analyst rating of 4.45, the highest among the
biggest 40 telephone companies by revenue in the Americas,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The figure, which is
the average within a range of one to five, with five being the
highest, compares with a 4.36 and 4.33 rating for runners-up
Telefonica Brasil SA and U.S.-based  CenturyLink Inc. (CTL) ,
respectively.  Tim, Brazil’s second-largest wireless carrier after
Telefonica’s mobile unit Vivo, is gaining market share as it
boosts sales to consumers who don’t spend a lot of time surfing
the Internet or watching videos on their phones, according to
Richard Dineen, an analyst with HSBC Holdings Plc.  “Tim focused more on supplying customers with voice and
cheaper phones that are really more suitable to more limited
data usage, like browsing social networks,” Dineen, who has the
equivalent of a buy rating on the stock, said in a July 2
telephone interview from  New York . “They have the right
handsets, the right marketing messages. They designed the right
voice and data packages.”  Telefonos de Mexico SAB , the fixed-line unit of America
Movil SAB, has an analyst rating of 1.67, the lowest in the
Americas among major companies, according to Bloomberg data.
America Movil SAB is delisting Telefonos de Mexico shares.  Tim has  advanced  21 percent this year, the best performer
on the MSCI Brazil/Telecommunications Services  index , which slid
1.2 percent. The company trades at 19.5 times its reported
earnings, compared with a 9.2 ratio for Telefonica Brasil.  Market Share  Rio de Janeiro-based Tim operated 26.9 percent of all
mobile phones in Brazil as of May, up from 25.3 percent a year
earlier, making it the second-biggest carrier in Brazil,
according to telecommunications regulator Anatel. Vivo’s market
share of 29.6 percent was little changed from 29.5 percent a
year earlier.  Oi SA (OIBR4) ’s share fell to 18.6 percent from 19.4
percent.  Tim’s focus on the faster-growing market of mobile phones
makes it a more appealing stock than Oi and Telefonica Brasil,
which also offer landlines, said Luis Fernando Azevedo, an
analyst at Banco Bradesco SA’s brokerage.  “Tim is a wireless carrier and has been benefiting
tremendously from this fast-growing segment,” Azevedo, who
rates the stock outperform, said in a telephone interview from
Sao Paulo. “While others operate fixed lines, which dilute
earnings because the segment has been shrinking in recent years,
Tim is almost a pure wireless player.”  Expanding GDP  Bradesco’s outperform rating, which is the equivalent of
buy, means that the stock’s return is expected to exceed the
benchmark Bovespa index’s gain by 10 percent in the next 12
months.  Demand for mobile phones in Brazil, the world’s second-
largest emerging economy, is increasing even as growth is
forecast by analysts in a central bank survey to slow to 2.05
percent this year. Gross domestic product expanded 2.7 percent
in 2011, down from 7.5 percent in 2010, while the number of
wireless-service subscribers rose 19  percent  to 242 million in
the period, according to Anatel.  Tim’s plan to increase investments in broadband Internet
may erode its earnings outlook, said Alex Pardellas, an analyst
at CGD Securities in  Sao Paulo .  Tim said in a statement in December it plans to invest 7.5
billion reais ($3.7 billion) through 2013 to double its fiber-
optic network in Brazil. It aims to provide high-speed Internet
to 1 million residential customers in Sao Paulo and Rio de
Janeiro states.  Swelling Middle Class  “Tim has engaged in an ambitious plan to offer fixed
broadband services,” Pardellas, who rates the stock the
equivalent of hold, said in a June 29 telephone interview. “I
am a bit cautious as to how they plan to roll this out. They are
arriving late compared with peers.”  Growth in the mobile-phone industry has led to a worsening
in quality of the services provided because carriers weren’t
ready for a sudden increase in demand, Communications Minister
 Paulo Bernardo  said on June 14 in an interview with a pool of
 radio stations . Bernardo didn’t name any particular carrier.  Tim declined to comment, according to a press official who
asked not to be identified by name, citing company policy.  Tim will likely benefit further as more consumers buy
mobile phones, said Augusto Lange, who helps manage 1.5 billion
reais, including Tim shares, at Neo Investimentos in Sao Paulo.
Brazil’s middle class, defined as households with annual incomes
of at least 12,000 reais, swelled by 31 million in the past
decade, according to a study from the country’s Strategic
Affairs Ministry.  “Mobiles are in demand in Brazil,” Lange said. “Tim is
the company best positioned to capture the growth.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lucia Kassai in Sao Paulo at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net ;
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  