-- Index of Turkey Open to Strategic Partners, to Grow Sales 5%
-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y
-- 2012-07-05T13:43:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/index-of-turkey-open-to-strategic-partners-to-grow-sales-5-1-.html
Index Grup of  Turkey , an importer and
distributor of information technology equipment, is “open to
strategic partners” for its units and halved its sales growth
target to five percent this year, chief executive Erol Bilecik
said.  Index Grup, also involved in technology equipment logistics
and after-sale services, will sign agreements this year with two
telecommunications companies in Turkey to offer them outsourcing
services, Bilecik said in an interview in Istanbul today.  Index Grup, whose units include listed  Indeks Bilgisayar
Sistemleri Muhendislik Sanayi & Ticaret AS (INDES) ,  Datagate Bilgisayar
Malzemeleri Ticaret AS (DGATE)  and  Despec Bilgisayar Pazarlama & Ticaret
AS (DESPC) , is importing and distributing more than 200 brands including
Hewlett-Packard, Lenovo, Apple, Asus, Microsoft, IBM, Sony,
Cisco and Epson in personal computers, smart devices,  computer
hardware  and other equipment to dealers in Turkey.  “We have a strong financial position and therefore aren’t
in urgent need of cash,” Bilecik said. “But we are open to
partnership talks with an international strategic distributor of
technology equipment which can help us expand know-how.”  Index
doesn’t want a private equity firm as partner, he said.  Index Grup foresees about 5 percent expansion in sales this
year, in line with its growth forecast for the domestic market
and less than a 10 percent forecast at the beginning of the
year, Bilecik said. “Consumer decisions on transition from
notebooks to tablets aren’t fully established and this is
affecting the market adversely this year,” he said.  “We want to focus on value-added services including cloud
computing and offer after-sales services to companies which buy
equipment from us,” Bilecik said. “The market was flat in the
first half of the year. We expect a pickup in the second half,
especially in the last four months.”  Real Estate  Index Grup, which has headquarters and logistics warehouses
in Istanbul’s central Ayazaga district, plans to agree with a
building group within three months for a real estate project on
its 40-acre land under a revenue-sharing deal, Bilecik said.  The company will move its headquarters to another location
in Istanbul in 2013, and will invest $20 million to build
warehouses on a 30-acre land it is looking for between Tuzla and
Izmit towns, to the east of Istanbul, he said. “Income from the
real estate project will be spread to our financials over the
coming years,” he said.  Bilecik and his family, founders of the group, bought back
35.6 percent stake in Indeks Bilgisayar from five Greek banks
including  EFG Eurobank Ergasias SA (EUROB)  in May for 48 million liras
($27 million), Bilecik said.  Index may buy companies in Turkey should there be
opportunities after its purchase of a 55 percent stake in Alkim
Bilgisayar, a after-sales services company in Turkey, for $3.3
million in May, he said.  Indeks Bilgisayar rose 0.3 percent to 3.2 liras at 4:40
p.m. in Istanbul while Datagate Bilgisayar fell 0.7 percent to
2.93 liras and Despec declined 0.9 percent to 2.1 liras. The
main share index dropped 1.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  