-- India’s Nifty Stock Futures Drop on Signs Europe Slowing
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2012-07-05T10:16:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/india-s-nifty-stock-futures-drop-on-signs-europe-slowing.html
Indian stocks climbed for the third
day on expectation the  European Central Bank  will cut  interest
rate , and as a key adviser to the Prime Minister said tax rules
for foreign investors should not be changed.  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT) , the owner of Jaguar Land Rover, rose for
the first time this week.  ICICI Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC) , the second-biggest
lender, gained to its highest price since March. The BSE India
 Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  added 0.4 percent to 17,530.30, according to
preliminary closing prices at 3:30 p.m. in Mumbai.  The ECB may reduce its key  borrowing cost  to a record-low
0.75 percent today to boost growth in the region, India’s top
trading partner, according to a Bloomberg survey. India should
“clarify” that it does not intend to alter the way overseas
investments in local stocks and bonds are taxed, as the nation
prepares rules to clamp down on tax avoidance,  Montek Singh Ahluwalia , deputy chairman of the Planning Commission, said in
an interview to Bloomberg UTV today.  “Sentiments have turned, both globally and locally, and
investors are thinking it’s better to stay invested rather than
stay out,” D.K. Aggarwal, the New Delhi-based chairman of SMC
Investments & Advisors Ltd., said in an interview today. “The
expectation is that policy makers will announce steps to boost
growth. No one wants to be left behind.”  The Sensex has risen 3.7 percent since June 26 when Prime
Minister  Manmohan Singh  decided to lead the country’s finance
ministry after  Pranab Mukherjee  quit to vie for the presidency.
Mukherjee outlined steps to tackle tax avoidance, the so-called
General Anti-Avoidance Rule, in his budget speech on March 16,
before retreating on the plan in May by delaying implementation
until 2013 to salvage investor confidence.  “I hope they will clarify it in a way in which foreign
institutional investors will be reassured that their investment
is welcome,” Ahluwalia said.  Singh has made reviving investment in India a priority,
with growth at a nine-year low. Ahluwalia also said he hopes the
government will “very soon” allow foreign companies to open
supermarkets selling multiple brands, an industry closed off to
foreigners and one that Singh is trying to open up.  The Sensex has gained 13.5 percent this year and trades at
13.8 times estimated earnings, compared with 10.2 times on the
MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index. Valuations have rebounded from a
three-year low of 12.4 times set on May 23.  Overseas  funds  bought a net $102 million of Indian stocks
on July 3, raising their investment this year to $9.3 billion,
according to the nation’s market regulator. That’s a record for
the period, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  