-- India Said to Pay in Euros for Iran Oil Due to Rupee Hurdles
-- B y   P r a t i s h   N a r a y a n a n   a n d   A n t o   A n t o n y
-- 2012-07-05T07:39:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/india-said-to-pay-in-euros-for-iranian-oil-due-to-rupee-hurdles.html
India is using euros to clear most of
its purchases of Iranian oil through a Turkish bank because of
hurdles in making rupee payments, according to three people with
knowledge of the transactions.  While some payments have been made in rupees, they are more
difficult after India barred Tehran-based Parsian Bank from
opening a branch in  Mumbai  and because the rupee can’t be
directly converted overseas to other currencies, the people
said, asking not to be identified because the information is
confidential.  The euro payments are continuing even as the U.S. and the
European Union seek to limit oil revenue in  Iran , which they say
is developing nuclear weapons. The payments also mean Iran won’t
be handicapped by difficulties in converting rupees, the worst
performer among Asian currencies over the past 12 months.  “If the Indian companies need to buy the euro, then this
would be a negative for the rupee, especially if the payments
are large,” said Chin Loo Thio, a senior analyst at BNP Paribas
SA in  Singapore .  India  imported about $9.4 billion worth of oil
from Iran in the year ended March 2011, according to data from
India’s Department of Commerce.  The Indian rupee weakened 0.9 percent to 54.98 per dollar
as of 12:37 p.m. in Mumbai, the biggest drop in almost two
weeks, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Global Sanctions  The international measures against Iran include an EU ban
on its crude exports, which became effective on July 1. A law
enacted Dec. 31 cuts off international banks from the U.S.
financial system if they settle Iranian oil trades.  India and  Turkey  received exemptions from the U.S.
financial restrictions after they cut crude imports from Iran.
That allowed the South Asian nation to continue routing payments
through Ankara-based  Turkiye Halk Bankasi AS (HALKB) , the people said.
Before getting the exemptions, the Turkish lender told Indian
refiners it may no longer be able to act as an intermediary when
European sanctions take effect, four people with knowledge of
the matter said Jan. 10.  Officials at Halk Bank in Ankara declined to comment. R.C.
Joshi, a New Delhi-based spokesman for India’s oil ministry,
didn’t return two calls to his mobile phone. Mohsen Qamsari, the
head of international affairs for National Iranian Oil Co.,
didn’t immediately return a phone call to his office in Tehran.  Import Cuts  India will cut crude purchases from Iran by 11 percent in
the year that began April 1 to 15.5 million metric tons as the
nation seeks to diversify its supply sources, Junior Oil
Minister R.P.N. Singh said on May 15. The planned reduction
followed U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton’s visit to  New
Delhi  earlier in the month. She urged India to cut oil imports
from Iran and said U.S. officials will help the nation find
alternative sources.  Indian processors using the Islamic Republic’s crude are
receiving shipments through Iranian tankers on a cost-insurance-
and-freight basis, two of the people said. This means Iran is
responsible for delivering the crude to the South Asian nation.  The EU ban on the purchase, transportation, financing and
insurance of Iranian oil affects Asian importers because 95
percent of the world’s tankers are insured by the 13 members of
the London-based  International Group  of P&I Clubs. That means
fewer ships may be available to load the cargoes from the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries’ second-largest
producer.  Rupee Difficulties  India’s rupee has weakened 19 percent against the  U.S.
dollar  in the past year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It is also the only Asian currency to drop against
the euro in the same period, sliding 7 percent.  UCO Bank (UCO) , an Indian government-run lender, has been
approved for taking deposits of as much as 45 percent of
refiners’ crude payments in rupees, which will then be
transferred to Iran.  A Mumbai branch for Iran’s Parsian Bank would have made
such transactions easier, two people with knowledge of the
matter said May 7. India barred the lender from opening a branch
in the country because of U.S. pressure, they said.  While India proposed paying for oil in rupees, Iranian
officials sought partial payment in yen because they are
concerned that they may not get sufficient value from the
currency, three people with knowledge of the talks said Jan. 23.  Iran’s economy has deteriorated as international measures
against the nation were announced. Its currency has weakened,
pushing up costs that were already surging after the government
started removing energy and food subsidies a year and a half
ago. Inflation accelerated to 22.2 percent in the 12 months
ended May 20, the central bank said June 9.  Oil for August delivery slid as much as $1.16 to $86.50 a
barrel in electronic trading today on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . Prices are down 12 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pratish Narayanan in Mumbai at 
 pnarayanan9@bloomberg.net ;
Anto Antony in Mumbai at 
 aantony1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  