-- Indonesia’s Tin Exports to Drop as Low Prices Curb Output
-- B y   Y o g a   R u s m a n a   a n d   E k o   L i s t i y o r i n i
-- 2012-07-06T07:57:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/indonesia-s-tin-exports-set-to-decline-as-low-prices-curb-output.html
Refined-tin  shipments  from  Indonesia ,
the largest exporter, probably dropped to the lowest level in
five months in June as miners reduced production because of
lower prices and bad weather disrupted ore supplies to smelters.  Exports fell 7.2 percent to 7,300 metric tons last month
from 7,866 tons in May, according to the median estimate of four
smelter executives and an analyst in a Bloomberg survey. That’s
the least since shipments of 5,380 tons in January and compares
with sales of 10,875 tons in June 2011. The Trade Ministry is
expected to release the data next week.  Prices have plunged 27 percent from a six-month high in
February on concern the debt crisis in  Europe  and slower growth
in  China  may erode demand for the metal used in soldering and
packaging. Falling supplies may limit the slump, helping boost
revenues at producers including  Malaysia Smelting Corp. (SMELT)  and  PT
Timah (TINS) , the world’s second and third-largest producers. Prices
below $20,000 ton have some adverse impact on small-scale
production in Indonesia, according to ITRI Ltd.  Last month’s shipments may be as low as 7,000 tons, Peter Kettle, research manager at the  St. Albans , England-based ITRI,
said by e-mail July 2. “My reason is lower prices resulting in
lower volumes through the independent smelters.”  Three-month tin fell 0.5 percent to $18,800 a ton on the
London Metal Exchange at 3:52 p.m. in  Singapore . The metal
dropped 4.2 percent in June for the fifth straight monthly loss.
The price peaked this year at $25,880 a ton on Feb. 8.  Top Supplier  Indonesia represents about 40 percent of global tin exports,
according to ITRI. The country has 39 registered exporters,
mostly based in Bangka Belitung province, the main producing
region, including PT Koba Tin, unit of Malaysia Smelting.  Shipments in the first five months of the year declined 4
percent from a year ago to 37,668 tons, according to data from
the Trade Ministry compiled by Bloomberg.  Stormy weather reduced ore supplies from offshore tin mines,
cutting exports, Johan Murod, commissioner of Belitung-based
smelter PT Tommy Utama.  “Traditional tin dredgers have to stop production on the
east coast of Bangka because the southeast wind is very
strong,” Murod said July 2. “Miners are reluctant to work
because of low prices.”  Indonesia’s production may drop this year from about 90,000
tons last year if prices remain low and as the  European debt
crisis  hurts demand, Hidayat Arsani, president of the Indonesian
Tin Mining Association, said June 12.  Producers in Bangka Belitung agreed to suspend spot
shipments in the final quarter of last year to try boost prices
to $25,000. The voluntary curb, which didn’t cover contractual
sales, was dropped Dec. 31.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoga Rusmana in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net ;
Eko Listiyorini in Jakarta at 
 elistiyorini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jake Lloyd-Smith at 
 jlloydsmith@bloomberg.net  