-- Iron Ore-Ship Rates Extend Rally as Owners Idle Vessels
-- B y   R o b   S h e r i d a n
-- 2012-07-05T14:52:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/iron-ore-ship-rates-extend-rally-as-owners-idle-vessels.html
Earnings for Capesize ships that haul
 iron ore  increased amid speculation owners idled vessels and
Chinese demand for cargoes gained.  Daily average returns for the largest commodity carriers
increased 13 percent to $7,569, figures from the London-based
 Baltic Exchange  showed today. Capesize rates have advanced 90
percent this week, the data showed.  Owners have idled vessels on some routes, as rates in June
plunged to the lowest level so far this year, according to
 Jeffrey Landsberg , president of Commodore Research, a  New York- 
based consultant to ship owners. Demand to ship steel-making raw
materials including iron ore to  China  has strengthened this
week, he said, supporting rates for Capesizes, the largest
vessels tracked by the Baltic Dry Index, a broader gauge of
costs to transport raw materials.  “The increase in Capesize rates has more than anything
come from owners idling vessels,” Landsberg said by phone
today. “There’s also increased iron ore demand from China. This
is likely to continue for a few days, but the ceiling is not too
far away.”  Chinese  steel production  climbed to a record 61.58 million
tons in March, according to data from the National Bureau of
Statistics.  The Baltic Dry Index added 3.2 percent to 1,138 as earnings
climbed for three of the four vessel types it tracks. Panamaxes,
the biggest ships to navigate the Panama Canal, gained 3.7
percent to $8,689 as Supramaxes that are about 25 percent
smaller rose 0.7 percent to $13,517, the highest price in almost
seven months. Handysizes, the smallest ships tracked by the
index, fell 0.1 percent to $10,336, exchange data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Sheridan in London at 
 rsheridan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  