-- Service Industries in U.S. Grew Less Than Forecast in June
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-07-05T16:27:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/ism-services-index-in-u-s-fell-to-52-1-in-june-from-53-7.html
Service industries  in the U.S.
expanded in June at the slowest pace since January 2010, a sign
the biggest part of the economy is struggling to gain momentum.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s non-manufacturing
index dropped to 52.1, less than projected, from 53.7 in May,
the Tempe, Arizona-based group said today. The  median  forecast
of 70 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called for 53.
Readings above 50 signal expansion.  Companies from  Family Dollar Stores Inc. (FDO)  to  FedEx Corp. (FDX)  are
seeing waning demand, underscoring concern about  Europe ’s debt
crisis, cooling global markets and an absence of U.S. fiscal
policy clarity that’s also hurting manufacturing. Limited hiring
and income growth indicate households will be reluctant to step
up purchases, which account for about 70 percent of the economy.  “Business activity in the services, construction and
government sectors of the economy decelerated in June but is
still growing at a modest pace,”  Steven Wood , principal
economist at Insight Economics LLC in Danville,  California , said
in an e-mail to clients. “A cyclical economic expansion is
currently in place but it has softened in the past three
months.”  Economists’ estimates in the Bloomberg survey ranged from
51.5 to 54.2. Before the latest numbers, the index averaged 53.4
since the recession ended in June 2009.  Stocks fell, snapping a three-day advance for the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index, as optimism with jobless claims data fizzled
on concern over the outlook for global growth. The  S&P 500 
dropped 0.3 percent to 1,369.34 at 12:26 p.m. in  New York .  Jobless Claims  Fewer Americans than forecast filed  first-time claims  for
unemployment insurance payments last week, Labor Department
figures showed. Applications for jobless benefits decreased
14,000 in the week ended June 30 to 374,000, the fewest since
the middle of May.  Companies added more workers than forecast in June,
according to a report from Roseland, New Jersey-based ADP
Employer Services. The 176,000 gain last month followed a
136,000 rise the prior month that was higher than initially
estimated.  The ISM non-manufacturing survey’s measure of business
activity dropped to 51.7, the lowest since November 2009, from
55.6. The gauge of new orders decreased to an eight-month low of
53.3 from 55.5. An index of prices paid decreased to 48.9, the
weakest since July 2009, from 49.8.  The employment gauge climbed to 52.3 from 50.8 in the prior
month.  The ISM services survey covers industries ranging from
utilities and retailing to health care and finance.  Manufacturing Slows  The report follows July 2 data that showed a slowdown in
overseas markets including  China  is limiting American exports
and damping prospects for manufacturers. The ISM factory index
fell to 49.7 in June, the first contraction in almost three
years and worse than the most-pessimistic forecast in a
Bloomberg survey.  Sales are also softening in part because of the lack of
progress in the labor market. The payrolls tally in June
probably crowned the weakest quarter for employment in more than
two years, economists in the Bloomberg survey forecast ahead of
a Labor Department report due tomorrow. The jobless rate, which
has exceeded 8 percent for 40 consecutive months, may have held
at 8.2 percent in June.  Family Dollar, the owner of more than 7,200 discount shops
in the U.S., narrowed its profit forecast for fiscal 2012 after
third-quarter sales trailed analysts’ average estimate.  ‘Economic Headwinds’  “It is clear that consumers continue to face difficult
economic headwinds,” Chief Executive Officer  Howard Levine  said
on a June 28 conference call with analysts. Discretionary
purchases like home goods and apparel continue to be
“challenged,” he said.  Demand remains soft, according to FedEx, which is
considered an economic bellwether because it carries everything
from mobile devices to pharmaceuticals. The  Memphis , Tennessee-
based company, operator of the world’s largest cargo airline,
pledged “significant cost reductions” as slowing economic
growth pressures profits.  “We now realize we’ve got to adjust the networks that we
built for higher gross domestic product growth than we’re
actually seeing,” Chief Financial Officer Alan Graf said on an
earnings call last month.  To combat flagging growth, Federal Reserve policy makers
said they are ready to take more steps should the U.S. expansion
slacken. Fed officials said in a policy statement on June 20
that they expect “economic growth to remain moderate over
coming quarters and then to pick up very gradually.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  