-- Japan’s Independent Probe Into Fukushima Releases Report Today
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a
-- 2012-07-05T03:31:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/japan-s-independent-probe-into-fukushima-releases-report-today.html
Japan ’s parliamentary-sanctioned
investigation into the Fukushima nuclear disaster will submit
recommendations today on the future of the country’s atomic
power industry, which posted combined losses of 1.6 trillion yen
($20 billion) in the year ended March.  The six-month independent investigation, the first of its
kind with wide-ranging subpoena powers in Japan’s constitutional
history, held public hearings with former Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  and  Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501) ’s ex-president Masataka Shimizu, who gave conflicting accounts of the disaster response.  One question the report may address is what was the extent
of the damage to the six reactor buildings in Fukushima from the
magnitude-9 earthquake before the tsunami hit the plant. If the
investigation finds earthquake-resistance standards at nuclear
plants are insufficient, it would raise safety questions about
all of Japan’s 50 reactors.  “Power utilities, as listed companies, would find it
difficult to justify maintaining nuclear power generation if
they cannot recover additional costs to raise quake-resistant
levels,” Hirofumi Kawachi, a utilities analyst at Mizuho
Investors Securities Co., said July 4 by phone.  Three other investigations led by the government, the
utility and a private foundation said in reports published
earlier that they found no evidence of major damage to reactor
buildings and equipment at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear
station from last year’s March 11 quake. They concluded the
plant was swamped by a 13-meter tsunami that followed the quake,
knocking out backup power generation and causing the meltdown of
three reactors.  Quake Damage  The commission, which will release its report today at 2
p.m. in  Tokyo , has 10 members, including its chairman Tokyo
University professor emeritus Kiyoshi Kurokawa. The group
includes a seismologist and a former nuclear engineer who have
warned of safety risks at atomic plants and have criticized the
government and utilities in promoting a nuclear  energy policy .  Mitsuhiko Tanaka, a former nuclear equipment engineer at a
unit of  Hitachi Ltd. (6501)  and a member of the commission, and Hiroaki
Koide, an assistant professor at Kyoto University’s Research
Reactor Institute, are among those who have said the quake may
have caused more damage to the Fukushima plant than so far
reported.  Tadashi Narabayashi, a former reactor safety researcher at
 Toshiba Corp. (6502)  and now a nuclear engineering professor at
 Hokkaido University , disagrees.  Already Assessed  “I’m not expecting technically new findings from the panel
as it doesn’t have many experts,” said Narabayashi, one of the
members who assessed the effects of the March 11 quake on the
Fukushima plant at a panel under the Nuclear and Industrial
Safety Agency. “It already became clear by our assessment that
important facilities and equipment weren’t damaged.”  On another point in dispute between the government and the
utility known as Tepco, the commission is likely to support the
plant operator’s claim that they were not planning to completely
evacuate and abandon the Fukushima Dai-Ichi station in the early
days of the disaster as stated by former prime minister Kan.  “There is no evidence that Tepco decided on a so-called
full withdrawal,” the commission said in a summary of issues
released June 9, noting it was not a final conclusion.
“Therefore, it cannot be said that Premier Kan prevented
Tepco’s full withdrawal.”  It was the “sense of duty” among workers at the site that
prompted them to stay and deal with the nuclear accident, it
said in the statement.  Government Clash  Japan’s parliament in December appointed Kurokawa, a doctor
of medicine, to head the investigative panel.  Kurokawa clashed with the government when Prime Minister
 Yoshihiko Noda  and his cabinet approved a bill on Jan. 31 to
create a new nuclear regulatory agency.  “It is very hard to understand how the cabinet decision
has been made” before the panel finishes its investigation,
Kurokawa said in the  statement . One of the panel’s missions is
to make recommendations including the reexamination of Japan’s
nuclear policy and administrative organizations to prevent a
future nuclear accident, Kurokawa said.  After amending the bill on the new regulator to give it
more independence, the parliament passed the legislation on June
20. The new watchdog to be established as early as September,
will replace the Nuclear Industrial Safety Agency and the
Nuclear Safety Commission, two regulatory bodies criticized for
their poor handling of the Fukushima disaster.  “It is ethically and politically difficult for lawmakers
to completely ignore the panel’s recommendations” on how the
new regulatory agency should work, Kawachi at Mizuho said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  