-- JPMorgan Rises to Challenge HSBC as Asia’s Top Bond Arranger
-- B y   R a c h e l   E v a n s   a n d   T a n y a   A n g e r e r
-- 2012-07-05T02:30:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/jpmorgan-rises-to-challenge-hsbc-as-asia-s-top-bond-underwriter.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the largest
underwriter of corporate bonds worldwide, jumped eight spots to
number two in  Asia  as  Li Ka-shing ’s  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) 
picked the bank to manage its return to the market.  JPMorgan moved past  Citigroup Inc. (C) , Deutsche Bank AG and
UBS AG to challenge HSBC Holdings Plc at the top of Asia’s
dollar, euro and yen league table. The largest U.S. bank by
assets was credited with arranging $7.4 billion of note sales in
the region outside  Japan  in the first six months of 2012, up
from $3.2 billion for the same period last year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. It boosted its market share to 10.6
percent, versus HSBC’s 15.5 percent.  Bond sales in Asia surged 45 percent to a record $70.1
billion in the first half, helping the area’s economy expand 6.3
percent in the three months through March. Sales of corporate
bonds globally fell. Hutchison Whampoa is the region’s biggest
issuer with JPMorgan arranging five of its eight deals. The Hong
Kong-based conglomerate sold no debt in the three major
currencies last year.  “We had a lot of clients that were ready to issue at the
beginning of this year after we suggested to them to wait out
2011,” said Murlidhar Maiya, the Hong Kong-based head of debt
capital markets for Asia ex-Japan at JPMorgan. “Credit is in
our DNA, we have risk appetite and we have a growing corporate
bank.”  Beating Peers  The New York-based bank was in 10th place in 2011, after
ranking fifth for the first half of that year. This year it
helped 26 issuers in the region sell 40 notes, including helping
to arrange $4.27 billion of bonds for Hutchison Whampoa, the
data show. The lender is also the top choice for companies
issuing in the global corporate bond market in any currency, a
position it’s held since 2008.  Citigroup fell from second place to third position, while
Deutsche Bank dropped from third to seventh, the Bloomberg
compiled data show. Barclays Plc slipped two spots to sixth
place and UBS lost four places to the ninth slot, the data show.  James Griffiths , a Hong Kong-based spokesman for Citigroup,
declined to comment on the bank’s position in the league tables.
Deutsche Bank said it was confident that by end of the year the
rankings would look different.  Deutsche Bank, UBS  “There is an element of rotation, luck and a deliberate
league table grab by some of our competitors that distorts the
standings,” said Herman Van Den Wall Bake, the head of fixed-
income capital markets for Asia at the Frankfurt-based lender.
“If you look at the number of our deals and the breadth of our
business, our platform is in very good shape.”  UBS attributed its drop to banks’ ability to extend credit.  “The ability to lend is increasingly affecting bond league
tables over the years,” said Hong Kong-based Paul Au, the head
of syndicate at UBS. He added that high-yield bond table
rankings offer “a better barometer of skill.”  Standard Chartered  Plc climbed two places to fourth,
handing it an 8.8 percent market share, while Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. rose three spots to fifth, arranging 8.2 percent of
sales, the data show. Citigroup fell from second to third.  Investors are shifting funds into higher-yielding asset
classes to counter near-zero  interest rates  in Europe and the
U.S. About $6.73 billion was added to emerging-market debt funds
in the second quarter, according to research company EPFR Global
which is based in the U.S.  Derivative Loss  Yields on Asian dollar debt fell by 78 basis points, or
0.78 percentage points, to a low in the first half of 4.37
percent on June 29, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
indexes. The yield on global notes fell 39 basis points to a
first-half low of 1.87 percent on June 1.  JPMorgan increased its share of the bond market even as
Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  said on May 10 the bank lost
about $2 billion from derivatives tied to corporate credit
markets. The company’s stock has tumbled 12 percent since to
$35.88 a share as of July 3.  The cost of insuring the lender’s five-year debt from non-
payment climbed 27 basis points to 133.6 basis points the day
after Dimon’s revelation, the biggest one-day jump since May
2010, according to data provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-
Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market. Credit-default swap prices typically rise as
investor confidence deteriorates and fall as it improves.  Moody’s Investors Service  downgraded  JPMorgan by two
notches to A2 on June 21. The bank is now facing a new
investigation by U.S. regulators into alleged energy-market
manipulation.  Indonesia, Philippines  JPMorgan helped to arrange three note sales for  Indonesia 
this year totaling $4.25 billion and was one of eight lenders
that helped the  Philippines  open the dollar- bond market  for 2012
in January. It’s arranged a total of $5.75 billion in sales for
the two Southeast Asian sovereigns this year.  State Bank of India (SBIN)  earlier this week hired JPMorgan to
arrange a dollar bond alongside Barclays Plc, Bank of America
Corp., Citigroup, Deutsche Bank and UBS.  JPMorgan is also one of four banks arranging a  U.S. dollar 
subordinated note for Standard Chartered, which is being
marketed today at a yield of 360 basis points over similar-
maturity Treasuries.  “We’re not willing to extend capital at unreasonable rates
to win business,” JPMorgan’s Maiya said. “If the financial
crisis has taught us one thing, it’s that careless deployment of
capital will bite us back.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rachel Evans in  Hong Kong  at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net ;
Tanya Angerer in Singapore at 
 tangerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  