-- JPMorgan Told to Explain Withholding Energy-Probe E-Mails
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-07-05T18:21:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/jpmorgan-told-to-explain-withholding-energy-probe-e-mails.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  was ordered by a
federal judge to explain why it shouldn’t be compelled to turn
over e-mails sought by U.S. regulators in a probe of potential
energy-market manipulation.  U.S. District Judge Colleen Kollar-Kotelly in  Washington 
today gave JPMorgan until the end of the day on July 13 to
respond. The U.S.  Federal Energy Regulatory Commission  sued
JPMorgan on July 2 to release 25 e-mails in an investigation of
possible manipulation of power markets in California and the
Midwest by J.P. Morgan Ventures Energy Corp.  “JPMorgan shall address why it should not be required to
produce the 25 at-issue e-mails in unredacted form or to submit
them to the court for in camera review,” Kollar-Kotelly said in
the three-page order. “JPMorgan must present declarations or
other competent evidence to support each of the essential
elements of any claimed privilege.”  FERC opened the probe in August after complaints from
California and Midwest grid operators that JPMorgan’s bidding
practices were abusive, according to the agency’s initial court
filing.  “We believe we have complied in all respects with the law,
as well as FERC rules and applicable tariffs, governing this
market,”  Jennifer Zuccarelli , a JPMorgan spokeswoman, said in
an e-mail. “We stress that this investigation is ongoing and
that no conclusions have been reached or findings adjudicated.”  ‘Court’s Assistance’  She said “we welcome the court’s assistance in resolving
this dispute over documents.”  FERC, which has pledged to combat manipulation of prices,
said JPMorgan’s bidding techniques in California and the Midwest
resulted in at least $73 million in improper payments. It
accused the bank of improperly using attorney-client privilege
to withhold or redact 53 e-mails subpoenaed in April.  The company has since released 28 of the e-mails.  The regulator is examining efforts by Houston-based J.P.
Morgan Ventures to extract excessive payments or above-market
prices from and Midwest Independent Transmission System Operator
Inc. and  California  ISO, Thomas Olson, a lawyer in the FERC
investigating division, said in a court document. The probe
focuses on winning inflated “make-whole” payments, he said.  Grid Operators  The California and Midwest grid operators solicit bids
from electricity suppliers each day to meet expected demand.
Typically, 90 percent or more power consumed is secured in what
is known as the day-ahead market. Any supply shortfalls because
of weather or unexpected plant shutdowns are met through bids
placed in real-time.  In today’s order, the judge said the parties should meet
and file a brief on July 10 advising whether they would consent
to having the case handled by a magistrate judge with any
appeals taken directly to the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in
Washington. She said such an arrangement might result in a
quicker decision.  The case is Federal Energy Regulatory Commission v. J.P.
Morgan Ventures Energy Corp., 12-mc-352, U.S. District Court,
 District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 