-- Kansai Electric Plans First Bond Since Quake as Nuclear Restarts
-- B y   Y u s u k e   M i y a z a w a   a n d   T a k u   K a t o
-- 2012-07-05T06:49:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/kansai-electric-plans-first-bond-since-quake-as-nuclear-restarts.html
Kansai Electric Power Co. (9503)  is planning
to sell its first bonds since December 2010, as the utility
today became the only Japanese company to re-start a nuclear
reactor since the Fukushima disaster last year.  Kansai Electric, Japan’s second-biggest generator, hired
Mizuho Financial Group Inc. and Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley
Securities Co. for a sale of five-year notes planned for this
month, according to a faxed statement from Mizuho today. The
company resumed electricity generation and transmission at its
Ohi No. 3 nuclear reactor in central Japan today.  The utility is set to follow Tohoku Electric Power Co. in
returning to the  bond market  after offerings by nuclear
operators dried up following the worst atomic accident since
Chernobyl. Issuance by Japan’s power companies plunged 92
percent last year to 95 billion yen ($1.19 billion), and was 125
billion yen this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The restart of the Ohi reactor is a huge step forward in
being able to predict income and expenditure for the industry,”
Takao Matsuzaka, a credit analyst at Daiwa Securities Co., said
in a telephone interview from  Tokyo  today. “The other power
companies will also resume bond sales after the summer.”  Kansai Electric  ended a two-month period when all the
country’s 50 reactors were off-line for safety checks following
the earthquake and tsunami in March 2011.  The utilities powering the world’s third-biggest economy
have been forced to use coal, oil and gas-fired plants to keep
factories, offices and homes supplied with electricity. Buying
and importing those fuels is driving up costs, potentially
leading to higher bills and further weakening the economy.  Bond Demand  Kansai raised 30 billion yen from a sale of 10-year, 1.285
percent bonds in December 2010. The notes were priced to yield 9
basis points more than similar-maturity government debt,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The spread widened to
as much as 60.5 basis points June 11, and was quoted at 59.5
yesterday, according to  Japan  Securities Dealers Association
prices on Bloomberg.  “After checking the issuance environment, we understand
there is demand for our bonds,” Kansai Electric spokesman
Akihiro Aoike said in a telephone interview from  Osaka  today.
Aoike declined to elaborate on the details of the plan.  Kansai Electric postponed a sale of 10-year bonds in June
2011 due to market conditions, according to an e-mailed
statement then from Nomura Securities Co., which was arranging
the offering with Daiwa, Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley, Mizuho
and SMBC Nikko Securities Inc.  The utility has 80 billion yen of bonds  due  this year, and
220 billion yen in 2013, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yusuke Miyazawa in Tokyo at 
 ymiyazawa3@bloomberg.net ;
Taku Kato in Tokyo at 
 tkato6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  