-- Kodak, Budweiser, Caesar’s, Oracle: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-07-05T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/kodak-budweiser-caesar-s-oracle-intellectual-property.html
Eastman Kodak Co. (EKDKQ) , the photography
pioneer that seeks to sell digital-imaging patents, won court
approval to auction the assets as part of its bankruptcy
restructuring.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Allan Gropper in Manhattan said at a
hearing July 2 that he would approve an order allowing a sale
process for more than 1,100 patents.  Kodak is selling its digital-imaging patents as part of a
plan to shrink the company and focus on printing rather than
photography.  The 124-year-old company, based in Rochester, New York, is
moving ahead with the sale amid a fight with  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  over
ownership of 10 of the patents being sold. Kodak sued Apple to
block ownership claims by Apple, while Apple has filed
counterclaims against Kodak over the patents.  Timothy Lynch, Kodak’s chief  intellectual property  officer,
said in a statement that the sale of the patents can proceed
even if the dispute with Apple isn’t resolved by the time any
deal is completed.  Kristin Huguet, an Apple spokeswoman, declined to comment.
The Cupertino, California-based company said in a court filing
that Kodak “unlawfully” used confidential disclosures by Apple
to obtain patents and claimed Apple’s technology as its own.  Kodak said in June that 20 parties had signed
confidentiality agreements and had been given access to an
electronic data room. Kodak, which filed for bankruptcy in
January, hired  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)  to help find a buyer for the assets.  Kodak has generated more than $3 billion since 2001 from
licensing the digital-imaging patents to users, including
 Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) ,  LG Electronics Inc. (066570)  and  Nokia Oyj (NOK) , the
company said.  Under the sale process, interested buyers must submit bids
by July 30, and if there’s more than one qualified bid, Kodak
may conduct an auction Aug. 8, according to rules outlined in
court papers.  The identities of unsuccessful bidders will be kept secret
from other bidders and the public, Kodak said. Only the winning
bidder and the amount of the bid will be announced.  The case is In re Eastman Kodak Co., 12-10202,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Czech Brewer’s Budweiser Trademark Upheld by U.K. Appeals Court  A U.K. appeals court refused an attempt by  Anheuser-Busch
InBev NV (ABI)  to invalidate a trademark held by Czech competitor
Budejovicky Budvar NP over use of the name Budweiser for its
beers.  Three appellate judges ruled in the latest round of the
three-decade-old legal battle that an earlier Budvar appeal was
valid and the company could continue to use the Budweiser
trademark in the U.K.  “This litigation has gone on quite long enough,” Judge
Robin Jacob said handing down the ruling in London July 2.  Budvar and AB InBev began selling Budweiser in Britain in
the 1970s and have since made numerous challenges to each
other’s right to use the brand. The European Union’s top court
said in September that both firms could continue to use the name
because consumers were aware of the difference between the
products.  The July 2 decision won’t have any effect on AB InBev’s use
of the Budweiser name or its business in the U.K., the Leuven,
Belgium-based company said in an e-mailed statement. AB InBev
can still appeal the matter to the U.K. Supreme Court.  The judgment “allows the trademark register to reflect the
reality of the situation in the marketplace -- that both brands
co-exist with minimal consumer confusion, and have done so for
many years,” Mark Blair, a lawyer for Budvar, said in an e-
mail.  Caesar’s Entertainment Settles ‘Octavius Tower’ Dispute  Caesar’s Entertainment Corp. (CZR) , the Las Vegas-based casino
company, settled a trademark dispute with an entertainment
company owner over the “Octavius Tower” mark, according to
court papers.  The casino company sued Marcel July of Bornheim-Hersel,
Germany, and his Octavius Tower LLC in federal court in Las
Vegas in April 2011, claiming he had applied to register the
“Octavius Tower” mark two days after the company announced
plans to expand its hotel in Nevada with an “Octavius Tower”
addition.  In October, the court denied July’s request for an order
barring Caesar’s use of his trademark. He failed to demonstrate
that he was entitled to the order, the court said, adding that
Caesar’s had made “strong arguments” against July’s use of the
mark.  On July 2, the court granted the parties’ request to
dismiss the case, ordering that each side pay its own costs
related to the dispute. Other terms of the settlement weren’t
disclosed.  According to the database of the U.S. Patent and  Trademark
Office , the two “Octavius Tower” trademarks registered to July
were canceled June 21. Caesar’s World has one pending “Octavius
World” application that was filed in December 2010.  The case is Caesar’s World Inc., v. July, 11-cv-00536, U.S.
District Court, District of Nevada (Las Vegas).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Oracle Can’t Stop Software License Resales, EU Court Says  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) , the largest maker of  database software ,
should lose a court challenge seeking to prevent a German
company from reselling Oracle software licenses, the European
Union’s top court said.  Software copyright owners can’t oppose the resale of
“used” licenses that enable the use of software downloaded
from the Internet, the  European Court  of Justice said July 2.
Oracle is trying to prevent Munich-based UsedSoft GmbH from
selling computer software and licenses no longer used by the
original buyer.  “Even if the license agreement prohibits a further
transfer the rightholder can no longer oppose the resale of that
copy,” the court in Luxembourg said in a statement advising the
German judges who will ultimately rule on the matter.  Oracle said the ruling ignored the value of innovation and
intellectual property to Europe’s economy. The  Redwood City ,
California-based company said in an e-mailed statement that
customers faced unnecessary risks by buying second-hand software
licenses without knowing if the originals were purchased
legally.  UsedSoft said the ruling also applied to computer programs
sold by Microsoft Corp. and  Adobe Systems Inc. (ADBE)   “This decision is a milestone for free trade in Europe,”
said Peter Schneider, the managing director of UsedSoft. “This
is particularly good news for customers who can finally benefit
from low software prices without restrictions.”  The court judgment set limits on software resales, saying
the original buyer must make his own copy unusable when he sells
it. Resellers also aren’t authorized to divide a license for
several users and to sell them separately, the court said in the
statement.  The case is  C-128/11  Axel W. Bierbach (liquidator of
UsedSoft GmbH) v Oracle International Corp.  Canada Denies Bid to Charge Copyright Fees on Memory Drives  Canada will exempt certain memory cards from a levy charged
to consumers to compensate copyright holders, Industry Minister
Christian Paradis said, denying an industry group’s request.  The federal government won’t impose levies on microSD
memory cards, which are removable devices that can be used to
store music on mobile phones, Paradis said July 3 in an e-mailed
statement.  “Placing a new fee on devices with removable memory cards,
such as BlackBerrys and smart phones, would increase costs for
Canadian families and impact the adoption of the latest
technologies,” Paradis said in the statement.  Canadian consumers pay a levy on blank audio recording
media such as compact discs, and the money is distributed to
music-rights holders.  The Canadian Private Copying Collective, an industry
organization that collects the fee and distributes it to rights
holders, had proposed that the levy be extended to microSD
memory drives.  Dish Tells Judge TV-Ad-Skipping Case Should Be Tried in New York  Dish Network Corp. (DISH) , the third-largest pay-television
provider, told a judge that lawsuits over its service allowing
viewers to watch ad-free TV should be heard in New York instead
of  Los Angeles , where the major broadcast networks filed their
complaints.  U.S. District Judge Laura Taylor Swain in Manhattan heard
arguments July 2 on whether the lawsuit by Dish, filed in New
York against the television networks, should continue. In May,
Swain ordered a temporary halt to the networks’ suits filed in
California.  “This controversy belongs in New York,” Peter Bicks, a
lawyer for Dish, told the judge. Dish said the cases should be
in New York because its complaint was the first filed and its
contracts with the networks require litigation to be heard
there.  TV broadcasters including  CBS Corp. (CBS) ,  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC
and  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox sued Dish in May, claiming that its new
Auto Hop digital video-recording feature, which allows viewers
to automatically skip through commercials on recorded programs,
infringes their copyrights and breaches Dish’s contracts with
them. At issue is the broadcasters’ advertising revenue.  “Dish admitted it filed its declaratory judgment suit
because it was operating under the threat of imminent
litigation,” Richard Stone, a lawyer for Fox, told the judge.  Paul LiCalsi, a lawyer for CBS and NBC, said in court that
Dish’s complaint “serves no useful purpose” and should be
dismissed. “It misses crucial issues,” he said.  The networks are trying to stifle innovation, Dish said in
its complaint. Auto Hop “complies with Dish’s bargained-for
contractual rights,” it said. Dish added that it pays the
networks “hundreds of millions of dollars per year in
retransmission fees, collected from its subscriber base, for the
right to rebroadcast these signals.”  It seeks a judicial ruling that it didn’t violate contracts
or copyrights.  The fourth major broadcast network,  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ABC,
didn’t sue in Los Angeles. It is a defendant in Dish’s complaint
in New York. Kevin Baine, a lawyer for ABC, told the judge that
the company doesn’t object to litigating in Los Angeles.  The Los Angeles cases are Fox Broadcasting v. Dish Network
LLC, 12-4529; NBC Studios LLC v. Dish Network Corp., 12-4536;
and CBS Broadcasting Inc. v. Dish Network Corp., 12-4551, U.S.
District Court, Central District of California (Los Angeles).
The New York case is Dish Network LLC v. American Broadcasting
Cos., 12-04155, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan).  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 