-- South Korean Bonds Advance on Signs Europe Is Slowing; Won Gains
-- B y   J i y e u n   L e e
-- 2012-07-05T07:59:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/korean-won-retreats-from-two-month-high-on-europe-slowdown-signs.html
South Korea ’s government bonds
advanced after data indicated an economic slump is deepening in
 Europe . The won traded near a two-month high.  Services and manufacturing output shrank in June for a
fifth month in the euro area and services unexpectedly
contracted in  Germany , reports showed yesterday. The  European
Central Bank  will cut its benchmark  rate  by at least a quarter
of a percentage point today, according to 52 of 63 economists in
a Bloomberg survey. South Korea will focus policy efforts on
stabilizing prices and sustaining growth as it continues to face
headwinds from Europe and a slowdown in the U.S., the  Finance
Ministry  said in an e-mailed statement today.  “Demand for bonds was supported by weak data from Europe,
and there seems to be plenty of money in the market with
investors yet reluctant to opt for riskier assets,” said Huh Kwan, a Seoul-based fixed-income trader for Korea Investment &
Securities Co.  The yield on the government’s 3.5 percent bonds due March
2017 slipped two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 3.37
percent, Korea Exchange Inc. prices show. Three-year debt
futures advanced 0.02 to 104.81 and the one-year interest-rate
swap climbed one basis point to 3.36 percent.  The  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  of shares closed at a two-week high as
overseas funds bought $174.6 million more of the nation’s shares
than they sold this week through yesterday, exchange data shows.  The won advanced 0.1 percent to 1,135.15 per dollar at the
close in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It
touched 1,132.79 yesterday, the strongest since May 4. The
currency’s one-month implied volatility, a measure of exchange-
rate swings used to price options, increased 10 basis points, or
0.10 percentage point, to 7.28 percent.  “Currency movements weren’t big today with the ECB meeting
coming up, and the won gained in the afternoon on speculation
overseas investors are selling the dollar to buy Korean stocks
and bonds,” said Han Sung Min, a Seoul-based currency trader at
Busan Bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jiyeun Lee in  Seoul  at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  