-- N.Y. Judge Says Bloomberg Lacked Power on Prevailing Wage
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n   a n d   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-07-05T22:35:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/n-y-judge-says-bloomberg-lacked-power-on-prevailing-wage.html
New York  Mayor  Michael Bloomberg 
exceeded his authority when he usurped a long-standing practice
of the  city comptroller  to set so-called prevailing wages for
workers without collective bargaining agreements, a judge said.  State Supreme Court Justice Manuel Mendez said in a ruling
today that the Bloomberg administration’s reclassification of
city job titles to levels that offer less pay and time off
didn’t “have a rational basis,” is “arbitrary and
capricious,” and occurred without notice or a hearing by the
state  Civil Service Commission .  Previous contracts through agreements between unions and
the city comptroller, based on prevailing wages in business and
government, were valid, he said.  The judge annulled the Bloomberg administration changes and
reinstated the contracts that existed before the city’s April 11
personnel order that led to the new job titles and salary and
benefit levels.  “We’re very pleased the judge agreed that the city
overreached by stripping workers of prevailing wage
protections,” said Vincent Alvarez, president of the city
 Central Labor Council , which supported the lawsuit. “It was an
inappropriate action from the get-go, and would have hurt
thousands of workers and their families.”  Michael A. Cardozo, an attorney with the city's Law
Department, said the administration disagrees with the decision
and plans to appeal.  “The administrative change the city made seeks to undo an
expensive anomaly in New York City government, and was
implemented by other major jurisdictions in the state years
ago,” Cardozo said in a statement. “These workers should bargain
for their wages and benefits like other city employees.”  Skilled Tradesmen  The judge’s ruling affects about 10,000, or about
3 percent, of the city’s employees, most of them skilled
tradesmen such as carpenters, blacksmiths and plumbers.  The mayor had criticized as a “back-door political thing”
the old practice of setting the workers’ pay and time off
through negotiations with the comptroller.  Michael Loughran, spokesman for city Comptroller  John Liu ,
said, “This office has set prevailing wages for more than a
century and the mayor’s current labor strategy has resulted in
200,000 men and women working without a contract.”  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  The case is Murphy v. City of New York, 102636/2012, New
York State Supreme Court ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 