-- Nanoparticles Bust Heart Attack-Causing Clots in Study
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2012-07-05T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/nanoparticles-bust-heart-attack-causing-clots-in-study.html
Scientists found a way to use the
body’s natural clot-producing mechanisms to deliver targeted
medicine in a study that may have implications for treatments of
heart attacks and stroke.  Obstructions in blood vessels lead to a force called  shear
stress , attracting platelets that form blood clots. Researchers
designed a drug-delivery method that activates only in those
conditions, potentially enabling more targeted delivery of clot-
busting medicines in lower doses that can be given before a
patient gets to a hospital, they wrote in a paper published
online today in the journal  Science .  Heart disease and stroke are some of the leading causes of
death in the U.S., with about 785,000 Americans a year having
their first coronary attack, according to the Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention. Medicines designed to eliminate
clots in those events often need to be given in a hospital and
in doses that can lead to side effects such as excessive
bleeding, limiting the number of patients who can take them,
said  Donald Ingber , a professor of vascular biology at  Harvard
Medical School  in  Boston  and an author of the study.  “People have wanted to figure out targeting, but they
haven’t come up with a way,” Ingber, who is also director of
the  Wyss Institute for Biologically Inspired Engineering  at
Harvard, said in a telephone interview. “We knew platelets can
somehow go to narrowing vessels, and thought if biology can do
it, somehow we can do it.”  Shear Stress  The delivery system, called shear-activated
nanotherapeutics, is a bundle of tiny drug-coated particles that
travel together until they reach the obstruction, when the shear
stress causes them to break apart and attack clots. The study,
done in mice, used an approved clot-targeting therapy called
 tissue plasminogen activator , or tPA, and found that the system
allowed for use of less than one-fiftieth the normal dose to
dissolve clots, Ingber said.  The technique is years away from testing in humans, and the
scientists have plans to improve some of the chemistry involved,
Ingber said. While the technology isn’t backed by a company,
there are discussions about it, he said.  “This is a great startup opportunity because the same
delivery system could be used to deliver any drug,” Ingber
said, citing anti-inflammatories for atherosclerotic plaques, as
well as therapies for sickle cell anemia and coronary spasm.
“This clot-busting application alone -- the diseases it targets
in myocardial infarction, pulmonary embolism and stroke -- those
are the big killers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in  New York  at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  