-- Neo-Nazi Terrorists Went Camping After Murder Spree
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2012-07-05T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/neo-nazi-terrorists-went-camping-after-murder-spree-review.html
They murdered in cold blood, shooting
eight Turkish shopkeepers, a Greek businessman and a policewoman
in the head at brutally close range. They got away with racist
hate crimes for more than a decade.  Three middle-class kids from Jena, a pleasant university
city in eastern  Germany , terrorized immigrant communities from
Hamburg to Munich between 2000 and 2007. Security forces
displayed an unspeakable mix of incompetence and blindness to
the threat of neo-Nazi terror, failing to communicate, dropping
important leads, and -- most unforgivably -- criminalizing the
victims by suggesting they had links to drug mafias.  “Die Zelle”  (The Cell) by journalists Christian Fuchs and
John Goetz is the first book to tell the story of the trio’s
crimes. It is detailed and offers valuable context, yet comes
too soon to be definitive.  Just seven months have passed since the spectacular camper-
van suicides of two of the neo-Nazis, Uwe Boehnhardt and Uwe
Mundlos, an act of desperation as the police net finally
tightened around them after a bank holdup. The surviving member
of the group, Beate Zschaepe, has not even been charged yet.  The case, called “a disgrace for this country” by
 Chancellor Angela Merkel , still makes daily news. On July 2,
Heinz Fromm, the head of the Federal Office for the Protection
of the Constitution, resigned following revelations that his
office had destroyed files relating to the terrorist incidents.  Murder, Raids  A parliamentary inquiry seeks to expose the weaknesses in
the investigation and explore how the three terrorists, who
called their cell the National Socialist Underground, managed to
murder, raid banks and live under false identities for more than
10 years without being caught. As stones are turned over one by
one, we can expect more nasties to crawl out.  A strength of “Die Zelle” is in showing how the
environment in which the trio grew up and the turbulence of the
era fostered their loathsome ideology. During the communist era,
“the antifascist rituals didn’t turn every teenager in East
Germany into an antifascist,” the authors note drily.  It was only in the years after communism collapsed that
these convictions could be expressed. A wave of racist violence
rolled over Germany -- mostly engulfing the east, though not
exclusively. In one particularly horrific incident in 1992, a
home for asylum-seekers in Rostock was besieged and attacked by
right-wing extremists wielding Molotov cocktails and baseball
bats over a period of four days.  Hitler Image  Mundlos, Boehnhardt and Zschaepe were drawn into Jena’s
burgeoning right-wing scene. Mundlos, whose father has a
doctorate in mathematics, idolized Rudolf Hess and carried
business cards bearing an image of Hitler in his wallet.  Weapons-nut Boehnhardt, the son of an engineer and a
teacher, had already committed a number of offenses as a
teenager before he teamed up with Mundlos in 1992.  Zschaepe -- who Fuchs and Goetz reveal was half-Romanian --
helped plan the murders and bank robberies, though the men
carried them out. Devoted to her two cats, she managed the
group’s finances and cooked and kept house. It was she who set
their shared apartment on fire the day her accomplices died.  She also posted DVDs of a chilling, sick film, featuring
footage of the crime scenes, Nazi slogans and the  Pink Panther ,
to selected organizations. In the DVD, the group claimed
responsibility for the murders and a bombing in Cologne.  Camping, Boating  The contrast the book draws between their apparently
bourgeois lifestyle and terrible crimes is bizarre. During a
vacation -- weeks after shooting a policewoman -- the trio
played cards with their campsite neighbors and took their son
boating, the authors say.  Contradictions abound: Zschaepe was on great terms with her
Greek neighbors in Zwickau, who remembered her little gifts and
called her “a very friendly woman,” the authors report.  Careful selection of locations for their crimes helped the
terrorists evade capture. They murdered in different western
German cities, while the bank holdups -- at least 14 of them,
the authors say -- took place in the east. That confounded the
fragmented German security authorities, because regional police
and secret services failed to communicate.  Fuchs and Goetz catalog the authorities’ refusal to
recognize the possible existence of right-wing terror. Weeks
before the murderers shot themselves and their racist motives
were discovered, Der Spiegel magazine cited investigators saying
the shootings were “payback for debts from criminal deals or
revenge for betrayals.”  As the recently resigned Fromm put it in November last
year: “We should have known better: After all, the historic
role models for these people are known to us.”  Plenty of questions remain. Why did the group change tack
to shoot a German policewoman when the other victims were all
from immigrant backgrounds and male? And why did they stop the
killing there? Four years elapsed between that last murder and
the last bank raid.  These are all subjects for a future book.  “Die Zelle” is published by  Rowohlt Verlag  (272 pages,
14.95 euros). There are no plans as yet to translate the book
into English.  Muse highlights include  Zinta Lundborg’s   New York  weekend,
 Craig Seligman  on the arts.  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley, in Berlin, at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 