-- Netflix Advances Most Since January as Viewing Exceeds Cable
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2012-07-05T20:15:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/netflix-rises-most-in-five-months-as-online-viewing-beats-cable.html
Netflix Inc. (NFLX) , the largest video-
subscription service, rose for a second day, gaining the most
since January after an analyst said the company’s online
audience exceeds cable and TV networks.  Netflix, based in  Los Gatos , California, soared 13 percent
to $81.72 at the close in New York, the biggest  gain  since Jan.
26. The shares advanced 6.2 percent on July 3, erasing a decline
for the year and are now up 18 percent in 2012.  The Los Gatos, California-based company’s estimated 24
million domestic subscribers probably watched an average of 40
hours of programming online last month, analyst  Rich Greenfield 
of BTIG Research wrote in a July 3 report. He based his estimate
on a posting by Chief Executive Officer  Reed Hastings .  “Among households with Netflix, Netflix would have been
the No. 1 watched network overall, including broadcast and
cable,” Greenfield wrote.  Netflix has been acquiring exclusive content to increase
its offerings in the face of competition from Amazon.com Inc.,
Hulu LLC and other streaming services.  Hastings posted the viewing total in a note on his Facebook
page praising  Ted Sarandos , chief content officer at Netflix,
saying new programs will drive the totals higher.  “When ‘House of Cards’ and ‘Arrested Development’ debut,
we’ll blow these records away,” Hastings wrote.  Last month, Netflix said it is testing a redesign of its
website that separates movie viewing options from its growing
television catalog.  By splitting off films from television shows, and offering
subcategories of each, the new look may improve viewers’ ability
to find programs in specific genres. The company hasn’t decided
yet whether to implement the design later this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  