-- NYC Board Can’t Declare Rangel Winner Until Judge Agrees
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h   a n d   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-07-05T22:53:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/new-york-can-t-make-rangel-win-official-until-approved-by-judge.html
New York  City’s Board of Elections
was ordered not to send the results of last month’s Democratic
primary for the U.S. Congress seat held by Representative
Charles Rangel to the state until a judge approves it.  State Supreme Court Judge John W. Carter in the Bronx today
told the  Board of Elections  it can certify the results of the
election but can’t report them to the state -- which would make
them official -- until they are approved by the court, according
to a copy of the judge’s orders. Rangel’s top challenger,
Adriano Espaillat, two days ago asked the court to order a
review of the primary that could include a recount and testing
and inspection of voting machines.  “It just started court proceedings to review the whole
election,”  Martin Connor , an attorney representing Espaillat,
said of today’s order in a telephone interview. “You have to
bring this proceeding by tomorrow or you can’t bring it
forever.”  Elections officials counted about 25 percent of the more
than 2,000 paper absentee and affidavit ballots today, with
Rangel collecting 143 more votes than Espaillat. That increased
Rangel’s lead to about 945 votes over Espaillat with about 1,500
votes yet to be counted, board spokesman Valerie Vazquez said.  During the June 26 primary, Rangel declared victory and
Espaillat conceded defeat after results showed the incumbent
ahead by 45.2 percent to 39.8 percent with 84 percent of polling
places unofficially counted. The  Associated Press , which reports
the vote count, called the race for Rangel.  House Censure  Rangel, 82, has represented  New York City ’s Harlem
neighborhood in the House for more than 41 years and once served
as chairman of the tax-writing Ways and Means Committee.
Democrats make up almost 97 percent of the district in northern
 Manhattan  and the Bronx, so winning the primary almost ensures
victory in the November general election.  It was Rangel’s first campaign since the House censured him
in December 2010 for 11 ethics violations, including failure to
disclose and pay taxes on rental income from a house he owned in
the  Dominican Republic .  Espaillat, 57, seeks to become the first Dominican-born
member of Congress. During the campaign, he said Rangel’s
censure had reduced the congressman’s effectiveness and made him
a “poster child for dysfunction in  Washington .”  The vote margin had narrowed to 2 percentage points by June
30, and the Board of Elections is still counting absentee and
affidavit ballots from several Assembly Districts in Manhattan
and the Bronx, a process that may take several days, Vazquez
said.  In the event the margin shrinks to within 0.5 percentage
point, the law requires a machine-by-machine recount of the
election, which would take weeks, she said.  The case is In the Matter of the Application of Adriano
Espaillat v. The Board of Elections in the City of New York,
260496/2012, New York State Supreme Court (Bronx).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 