-- NFL Players’ Union Sues Over Bounty-Related Suspensions
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-07-05T17:14:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/nfl-players-union-sues-to-overturn-bounty-related-suspensions.html
The  National Football League  Players
Association sued the league on behalf of three members who were
suspended for allegedly participating in a bounty program that
paid players for violent hits on opponents.  Scott Fujita , Anthony Hargrove and  Will Smith , who played
for the New Orleans Saints during the alleged bounty program,
were suspended by NFL Commissioner  Roger Goodell  after being
accused of accepting payments from a Saints coach for injuring
other players.  The union, in a filing today in federal court in New
Orleans, denied any such bounty program existed. The association
said Goodell, who issued the suspensions and on July 3 rejected
the players’ appeals, was biased and it asked the court to
overturn the bans.  “The investigation and arbitration process that the
commissioner’s public relations machinery touted as ‘thorough
and fair’ has, in reality, been a sham,” the association said.  The 32-team league in March said 22 to 27 Saints players
had been involved in a plot over the course of three seasons to
pay bonuses for hits that hurt opposing players, including Pro
Bowl quarterbacks  Brett Favre  and Kurt Warner.  Hargrove, now with the  Green Bay Packers , was suspended in
May for the first eight games of the next NFL season. Smith got
a four-game suspension, and Fujita, now with the  Cleveland
Browns , was suspended for three games.  Jonathan Vilma  The league also suspended linebacker Jonathan Vilma for the
entire season. Vilma filed his own suit on June 30 in the same
court, seeking a judge’s order compelling Goodell to rule on an
appeal of his punishment. Vilma’s case was consolidated with an
earlier defamation lawsuit he had brought against Goodell. The
league today asked the court to dismiss the case.  “There is no basis for asking a federal court to put its
judgment in place of the procedures agreed upon with the NFLPA
in collective bargaining,”  Greg Aiello , a league spokesman,
said in an e-mailed statement today, commenting on the
association’s lawsuit. “These procedures have been in place,
and have served the game and players well, for many decades.”  In its filing, the association called the arbitration
“legally invalid,” arguing that the players were deprived of a
process that was “transparent, credible and fair.”  Goodell, the union said, made public statements about the
players’ guilt before serving as an arbitrator in the hearing at
which their culpability was to be determined.  The commissioner on July 3 issued an eight-page ruling,
included with today’s NFLPA court submission, denying the
players’ appeals of his punishments.  Saints coach  Sean Payton  was suspended for the year over
the bounty allegations, while the team’s former defensive
coordinator  Gregg Williams , now a member of the St. Louis Rams
organization, was banned indefinitely for administering the
program.  The union case is National Football League Players
Association v. National Football League, 12-cv-1744; the Vilma
case is Vilma v. National Football League, 12-cv-1718, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New Orleans).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  