-- Norway Oil Fund Buys $341 Million of Real Estate in Paris
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2012-07-05T16:34:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/norway-s-wealth-fund-acquires-real-estate-in-paris-correct-.html
Norway’s $600 billion sovereign
wealth fund agreed to buy stakes in five properties in Paris
from  Italy ’s Generali Group as it expands its real estate
portfolio in the French capital.  The wealth fund, known as the Government Pension Fund
Global, will buy 50 percent stakes in five properties for 275
million euros ($341 million), it said in a statement today. The
Oslo-based fund will also form a joint venture with Generali
Real Estate, a unit of the Trieste-based insurance company, for
property investments in central Paris, it said.  “The transaction will increase our exposure to high-
quality properties in central Paris,” said Karsten Kallevig,
Norges Bank Investment Management’s chief investment officer for
real estate. Generali will own the other 50 percent stakes in
the buildings on completion of the deal, giving the joint
venture initial assets valued at 550 million euros.  The Norwegian sovereign wealth fund in 2010 got approval
from the government to invest 5 percent of its capital in real
estate. The fund gets its revenue from taxes on oil and gas,
ownership of petroleum fields and dividends from  Norway ’s 67
percent stake in Statoil ASA, the nation’s largest energy group.  Long Term  The five Paris properties, which are used as office and
retail premises and have a total surface area of about 38,600
square meters, are located at 100 Avenue des Champs Elysees, 3-5
Boulevard Malesherbes, 15-17 Rue Scribe, 11/13/15 Rue Pasquier,
and 183-185 Avenue Daumesnil.  Kallevig said the fund isn’t in a hurry to make further
purchases, though it’s ready to step in should an opportunity
present itself. The fund considers the Paris property purchase a
long-term investment, he said.  The joint venture with Generali is the fund’s third such
agreement in two years after deals with the U.K.’s Crown Estate
in 2011 in  London  and  France ’s  Axa SA (CS)  in Paris. The transaction
is the fund’s third investment in Paris after it last year
bought stakes in seven Paris buildings from Axa for 702 million
euros and then in November acquired another 290 million euros
worth of Paris property, together with Axa.  The partnership with Generali will have a long-term
investment strategy focused on central Paris and may over time
be extended to other European markets, the fund said.  “Like with our previous partners, I really like the
strategic part of this transaction,” Kallevig said by phone
from Paris. “Certainly with Generali as with Axa, I would hope
we could do more with them, whether it’s in Paris or
elsewhere.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 Jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  