-- Obama Awaits Jobs Report on Bus Tour of Swing States
-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r   a n d   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 2012-07-06T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/obama-to-hammer-romney-s-bain-record-on-campaign-bus-trip.html
Jobs growth returns to the forefront
of the U.S. presidential campaign today as the Labor Department
releases a report on unemployment and President  Barack Obama 
wraps up a bus tour through two battleground states.  The monthly jobs report, due at 8:30 a.m.  New York  time,
has taken on so much political significance amid voter
discontent with the economy that it amounts to a regular
“referendum” on the president, said Kathleen Hall Jamieson, a
professor at the  University of Pennsylvania ’s Annenberg School
for Communication in Philadelphia.  “Once every month the public sees it as a signal of either
the competence of the president or his failures,” Jamieson
said. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDU)  and “the  unemployment
rate  are among the few things that voters can see over time as a
continuing indicator that they understand.”  Private forecasters expect the Labor Department report will
show employers added 100,000 new jobs last month, an improvement
from 69,000 in May though still a slower pace than earlier this
year, according to the median estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News.  Economists anticipate the  unemployment rate  will hold
steady at 8.2 percent, according to the survey. Joblessness has
exceeded 8 percent since February 2009, the longest such stretch
since monthly records began in 1948.  Bus Tour  Obama has sought to use his two-day “Betting on America”
tour through  Ohio  and  Pennsylvania  to draw a contrast with
Republican challenger  Mitt Romney , a former private-equity
executive whose business made investments overseas.  Romney’s experience “has been in owning companies that
were called ‘pioneers of outsourcing,’” Obama said yesterday
while campaigning in Maumee, Ohio. “My experience has been in
saving the American auto industry, and as long as I’m president,
that’s what I’m going to be doing.”  Shortly before the president’s arrival in Ohio yesterday,
his administration announced that it had filed a complaint with
the  World Trade Organization  accusing  China  of levying unfair
tariffs on U.S. autos.  The duties cited in the WTO claim cover more than 80
percent of U.S. auto exports to China, including cars made in
the Ohio cities of Toledo and Marysville, White House press
secretary  Jay Carney  told reporters during the flight to Ohio
from  Washington  yesterday.  Carney said the WTO claim, the seventh such action against
China taken by the administration, was “in development for
quite a long time,” and not politically driven.  Health-Care ‘Misinformation’  Obama also spoke about the health-care overhaul upheld last
week by the  Supreme Court , saying there’s been much
“misinformation” about the law. The court’s decision means
it’s time to abandon acrimony and focus on the measure’s
benefits and protections, he said.  “In America, nobody should go bankrupt because they get
sick,” he said. “The law I passed is here to stay.”  During his final stop last night, the president told about
1,000 people gathered at a park in northeast Ohio that his
administration has “been working 24/7” for the past three-and
a-half years to rebuild the economy.  Obama repeated a frequent campaign theme that he and
Romney, the presumed Republican nominee, have very different
visions for the country. The president said Romney wants to
return to the Republican economic policies that culminated in
the worst recession since the Great Depression.  “I don’t think we grow the economy from the top down. I
think we grow the economy from the middle class out,” he said.  Swing States  Polls show that linking Romney to the outsourcing of U.S.
jobs when he was at Boston-based  Bain Capital  LLC, which he co-
founded, is an effective approach with voters in the swing
states of Ohio and Pennsylvania, where Obama will end the trip.  “If the election’s about Romney and Bain, then the
president’s going to win,” said Stu Rothenberg, editor of the
nonpartisan Rothenberg Political Report in Washington. “For
Romney, it has to be about Obama: Obama and jobs, Obama and
leadership, Obama and the economy, and Obama and health-care.”  Ohio and Pennsylvania, both of which Obama won in 2008,
have a combined 38 electoral votes in this year’s election.
Since filing for re-election in April 2011, Obama has visited
Ohio nine times and Pennsylvania eight times.  Obama led Romney by nine percentage points in Ohio and six
in Pennsylvania, according to a “Swing State Poll” conducted
June 19-25 by Hamden, Connecticut-based  Quinnipiac University .
The poll of 1,237 Ohio voters and 1,252 Pennsylvania voters had
a margin of error of plus or minus 2.8 percent. In 2008, Obama
beat Republican  John McCain  in Ohio by five percentage points
and in Pennsylvania by 11.  Focus on Romney  Still, Obama lost the 2008 Democratic primaries to  Hillary Clinton  in Ohio and Pennsylvania, and Republican  George W. Bush 
won Ohio in 2000 and 2004.  If the economic data “is suggesting economic problems
ahead and slowdown, the harder it will be to keep the focus on
Romney,” putting Ohio at risk for Obama, Rothenberg said.  Ohio has been recovering faster than most of the country.
It ranks sixth in improving economic health in the Bloomberg
Economic Evaluation of States from the first quarter of 2011
through the first quarter of this year, the most recent data
available. The  unemployment rate  in Ohio was 7.3 percent in May,
lower than the national rate of 8.2 percent for that month and
down from a high of 10.6 percent from July 2009 through January
2010.  Television Campaign  The Obama campaign started airing a television ad July 3 in
nine states including Ohio and Pennsylvania that says Romney’s
team at Bain “were pioneers in outsourcing U.S. jobs to low-
wage countries.” The ad says Obama “believes in insourcing”
and “fought to save the U.S.  auto industry .”  Through July 2, the campaign aired two ads 504 times on
stations that reach Ohio voters, blaming Romney and Bain Capital
for job losses at a steel company. Another ad from the Obama
campaign, citing a Washington Post article that Bain sent jobs
overseas, was run 247 times on stations that reach Ohio voters
beginning June 27 through July 2, according to data from Kantar
Media’s CMAG, which tracks campaign advertising.  Priorities USA Action, the super-political action committee
backing Obama, has produced four television ads that have run
2,357 times in Ohio; three of those ads also either ran or are
running in Pennsylvania 2,591 times.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  