-- Obama Court Win Proves Lifeline for Health Bonds: Credit Markets
-- B y   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2012-07-05T15:35:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/obama-court-win-proves-lifeline-for-health-bonds-credit-markets.html
Junk bonds of health-care providers
are beating the high-yield market after underperforming in the
first five months of the year, as a U.S.  Supreme Court  ruling
boosts investors’ optimism for the industry.  Speculative-grade debt of borrowers from HCA Holdings Inc.,
the biggest U.S. hospital chain, to Canonsburg, Pennsylvania-
based Mylan Inc. have returned 3.2 percent since the end of May,
compared with 2.4 percent for the Bank of America Merrill Lynch
U.S. High Yield Master II Index. In January through May, the 4.6
percent gain for health companies trailed the 4.9 percent for
the broader index.  The court decision last week, which left President  Barack Obama ’s transformation of the U.S. health system substantially
intact, benefits bond buyers as it reduces the risk that health
providers will be stuck with unpaid bills. The justices ruled
that Congress has the power to make Americans get insurance or
pay a penalty.  “The ruling was better than what most people expected and
when it came about, there was follow-through buying,” Brian Tanquilut, an analyst at Jefferies & Co. said in a telephone
interview. “The run-up ahead of that was in anticipation of the
ruling. There was thinking that if the law was blown out, there
would be renewed uncertainty.”  Bad Debts  Bad-debt expenses exceed 10 percent of revenue at major
acute-care hospital operators, Moody’s Investors Service said in
a June 5 report.  LifePoint Hospitals Inc. (LPNT)  recorded the highest
expense from unpaid bills as a percentage of revenue at 14.6
percent in 2011. The Brentwood, Tennessee-based chain has about
$1.2 billion of  bonds  outstanding, Bloomberg data show.  “Healthcare has a lot of different sub sectors but the
dominant one is hospitals,” said  Michael Anderson , a U.S. high-
yield strategist at Citigroup Inc. in New York. “The hope with
the bill is that you would have extra demand for healthcare
services and fewer bad debt write-downs.”  Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost of protecting
corporate debt from default in the U.S. rose for the first time
in a week, with the Markit CDX North America Investment Grade
Index, which investors use to hedge against losses or to
speculate on creditworthiness, adding 2.9 basis points to a mid-
price of 109.4 basis points as of 11:31 a.m. in New York,
according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  That’s the first increase since June 28 for the measure,
which typically rises as investor confidence deteriorates and
falls as it improves. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face
value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Bank of America  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
bond market stress, declined 1.6 basis points to 23.4 basis
points as of 11:32 a.m. in  New York . The gauge narrows when
investors favor assets such as corporate bonds and widens when
they seek the perceived safety of  government securities .  Bonds of Bank of America Corp. are the most actively traded
dollar-denominated corporate securities by dealers today, with
28 trades of $1 million or more as of 11:33 a.m. in New York,
according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  The Supreme Court’s decision on the Patient Protection and
Affordable Care Act, the biggest change to the U.S. health
system since Medicare and Medicaid were established in 1965,
marked the climax to a legal fight that featured the longest
courtroom arguments in 44 years and a record number of briefs.  Chief Justice  John Roberts , a Republican appointee, joined
four Democratic-selected justices to vote 5-4 in favor of the
overhaul that would require every American to carry health
insurance.  ‘Biggest Winners’  “The biggest winners are the providers with the highest
levels of uncompensated care,” said Fitch Ratings analyst Megan Neuburger. “Investors are also starting to see some of the
positive things going on in terms of operating conditions being
improved.”  The number of people without health insurance swelled to
49.9 million in 2010, or 16 percent of the  U.S. population , from
36.6 million or 13 percent in 2000, according to Census Bureau
data. The law may add coverage for 32 million people by decade’s
end, according to Congressional Budget Office estimates.  The extra yield investors demand to own junk-rated
healthcare debt instead of Treasuries shrank to 561 basis points
from last month’s high of 673 basis points on June 5, according
to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S. High Yield, Healthcare
index. The gauge tracks 160 bonds with a market value of about
$84.4 billion.  Mylan Bonds  Bonds of Nashville, Tennessee-based  HCA (HCA)  have gained 0.5
percent this month following a 2.9 percent return in June. The
company, which KKR & Co.,  Bain Capital  and Merrill Lynch & Co.
helped to take private in a $33 billion leveraged buyout in
2006, has $18.2 billion of bonds outstanding. That accounts for
more than 22 percent of the $80.7 billion of securities in Bank
of America Merrill Lynch’s healthcare bond index.  Mylan, the maker of generic and specialty pharmaceuticals
with $2.9 billion of bonds, has returned 1.1 percent in July
after a 2.2 percent gain last month, Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index data show.  “The ruling was a big overhang for healthcare,”
Citigroup’s Anderson said. “You have to have conviction to
trade. And if there is no conviction one way or the other,
people were probably waiting for the ruling to transact.”  Healthcare bonds, which account for 8.4 percent of the
high-yield index’s market weight, are trading more since the
court decision after being illiquid this year, according to
Trace data compiled by Citigroup. The debt represented 10.9
percent of block trades from June 28 to July 2, compared with
6.1 percent before the ruling.  The industry has benefited from “systemic changes in
healthcare delivery,” said Fitch’s Neuburger. “The ruling has
also helped in removing immediate uncertainty surrounding the
sector.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sridhar Natarajan in New York at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  