-- Obama Widens China Trade Fight in Auto Levy Complaint
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n   a n d   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n
-- 2012-07-06T05:48:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/obama-says-u-s-to-complain-at-wto-over-china-car-duties.html
President  Barack Obama  expanded U.S.
trade complaints against China, accusing the nation of imposing
unfair taxes on American vehicles, mostly from  General Motors
Co. (GM)  and Chrysler Group LLC.  Duties on more than $3 billion in exports cover more than
80 percent of U.S. auto shipments, including Jeep’s Wrangler and
Grand Cherokee, both made by Chrysler, and GM’s Buick Enclave
and Cadillac CTS, according to a White House statement on a
complaint it filed yesterday at the  World Trade Organization .  “Americans aren’t afraid to compete; we believe in
competition,” President Barack Obama said in Maumee,  Ohio , near
a Jeep factory at the start of a two-day campaign bus tour
yesterday. “As long as we’re competing on a fair playing field,
instead of an unfair playing field, we’ll do just fine.”  The U.S. complaint adds to an expanding list of grievances
between the nations. Disputes over issues such as rare-earth
minerals, solar panels and  wind turbines  by China and the U.S.
in recent months have led some analysts to speculate the nations
are headed for a trade war. The U.S. has complained about lack
of access in China for products including poultry, tires and
music.  China Duties  China, the world’s biggest car market, said on Dec. 14 it
planned to impose anti-dumping duties as high as 12.9 percent on
GM autos and 8.8 percent for Chrysler vehicles. China said U.S.
taxpayer support of the two carmakers amounted to a government
subsidy that was illegal under WTO rules, an allegation the
Obama administration rejects.  The U.S., which provided aid to the companies in 2008 in
return for stock, holds a 32 percent stake in GM. It sold its
Chrysler holdings to  Italy ’s  Fiat Spa (F)  a year ago.  The Chinese levies, which cover about 92,000 vehicles, also
were applied to vehicles produced by the U.S. units of
 Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  and  Daimler AG (DAI) , which pay 2 percent
and 2.7 percent respectively.  China Response  China will “appropriately” deal with the latest U.S.
complaint according to the WTO’s dispute settlement procedures,
the Chinese commerce ministry said in a statement on its
website.  Kevin Frazier, a spokesman for Chrysler, declined to
comment on the complaint. A GM spokesman didn’t return calls.  The complaint at the Geneva-based WTO is meant to remind
voters of Obama’s steps after taking office to rescue GM and
Chrysler and blunt criticism from presumptive Republican
presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  that Obama has been too soft
on China. Obama began his bus tour of northern Ohio and western
 Pennsylvania , areas hit by declining U.S. manufacturing, in a
suburb of Toledo, Ohio, that is home to a Jeep Wrangler plant.  “The deck in China is stacked against American automakers
and workers, and this case will help to level the playing
field,”  Scott Paul , executive director of the Washington-based
Alliance for American Manufacturing, said in a statement. Of 18
million vehicles sold in China, less than 1 percent were made in
the U.S. “despite the fact that the Detroit Three brands are
growing more popular every day,” Paul said.  Auto Helps Revival  China is Ohio’s third-largest export market, with shipments
to the Asian nation valued at $2.7 billion. Ohio’s exports to
China have climbed more than eightfold since 2000 while exports
from the state to the rest of the world only grew 68 percent.  When China imposed the duties, its car sales were rising at
the slowest pace in 13 years, putting pressure on domestic
producers to consolidate as GM and other foreign carmakers
posted gains.  “The  auto industry  is helping turn our economy around by
reviving manufacturing facilities across the nation,” Senator
 Sherrod Brown , an Ohio Democrat, said in a statement yesterday.
“We’re at risk of this progress being undercut if we allow
China to continue to cheat and break trade laws.”  Senator  Rob Portman , an  Ohio Republican , joined Brown in
December asking Kirk to investigate China’s duties on autos.
Kirk was asked to use “all available tools” to insist China
competes fairly, Portman and Brown wrote in a Dec. 19 letter.  Representative Mike Michaud, a Maine Democrat and chairman
of the House Trade Working Group, and 26 colleagues in February
urged Obama to combat China’s trade policies they said blocked
U.S. cars from China’s market.  “China has been violating international trade laws for 10
years, and Americans are paying the price for it,” Michaud said
yesterday in a statement praising the administration action.  Import Tariffs  On May 17, the Commerce Department announced tariffs of 31
to 250 percent on imports of Chinese solar cells. On May 30 the
agency proposed duties as high as 26 percent on imports of wind-
towers from  China , and the U.S. International Trade Commission
determined that imports of high-pressure steel cylinders from
China harm American producers.  On June 17, the WTO determined that China unfairly imposed
anti-dumping and anti-subsidy duties on more than $200 million
worth of U.S. steel products.  Obama and Romney, a former Massachusetts governor, have
positioned themselves to take a tough stance on China this
election year.  “That’s why my administration brought trade cases against
China at a faster pace than the previous administration -- and
we’ve won those cases,” Obama said yesterday.  Romney has said that on his first day in office, he will
issue an executive order labeling China a currency manipulator.  Yesterday’s request for consultations is the first step in
WTO dispute proceedings and means the governments must now hold
talks for at least two months in a bid to resolve the dispute.
If the talks fail, the U.S. can ask WTO judges to rule.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net ;
William McQuillen in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  