-- Oil Drops as ECB’s Draghi Says Economic Risks Remain
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2012-07-05T19:46:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/oil-falls-as-ecb-s-draghi-says-risks-remain-after-rate-cu.html
Crude dropped in  New York  after the
dollar rose against the euro as European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  said economic risks remain after the bank cut rates
to a record low.  Futures fell 0.5 percent as the dollar reached a one-month
high against the common currency. Draghi said there were
“downside risks” to the euro-area’s economic outlook. Prices
briefly advanced after an Energy Department report showed that
U.S.  crude supplies  fell 4.27 million barrels to 382.9 million
last week, the biggest decrease since December.  “The dollar is the only place to be,” said Marshall Berol, co-portfolio manager of the Encompass Fund in  San
Francisco , which has about $300 million in assets. “The ECB is
trying to stimulate the economy, and there are a lot of doubts
about their ability to turn things around. The dollar is strong
while just about every other market is weak.”  Crude for August delivery fell 44 cents to settle at $87.22
a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Prices are down 12
percent this year.  There was no floor trading yesterday because of the U.S.
Independence Day holiday. Transactions since the last close were
booked with today’s trades for settlement purposes.  Some “downside risks to the euro-area economic outlook
have materialized,” Draghi said at a press conference in
 Frankfurt  after lowering the main refinancing rate and the
deposit rate by 25 basis points to 0.75 percent and zero
respectively. “Economic growth in the euro area continues to
remain weak with heightened uncertainty weighing on both
confidence and sentiment,” he said.  Dollar’s Move  “We’re keying off the dollar,” said Bill O’Grady, chief
market strategist at Confluence Investment Management in  St.
Louis , which oversees $1.4 billion. “The ECB interest-rate cut
should be good for oil, but its impact on the dollar is
overwhelming any positive impact it will have on the economy.”  The dollar rose as much as 1.3 percent against the euro. An
increasing U.S. currency reduces the appeal of raw materials as
an investment.  Service industries  in the U.S. expanded in June at the
slowest pace since January 2010, a sign the biggest part of the
economy is struggling to gain momentum. The  Institute for Supply
Management ’s non-manufacturing index fell to 52.1 from 53.7 in
May, the Tempe, Arizona-based group said today. The  median 
forecast of 70 economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for 53.  Supply Projection  The decline in U.S. crude oil inventories was almost twice
the 2.3 million-barrel median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of
nine analysts.  “We got a bid from the draw in crude stocks,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and broker at Tradition Energy in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut . “We were down earlier because of the
dollar and will probably end lower unless the financial markets
turn around.”  Stockpiles of  distillate fuel , a category that includes
heating oil and diesel, fell 1.05 million barrels to 117.8
million last week, the report showed.  Gasoline supplies  rose
151,000 barrels to 205 million in the seven days ended June 29,
the Energy Department said.  Brent oil in  London  rose as  Statoil ASA (STL) ,  Norway ’s largest
crude producer, prepared to halt output. The Norwegian Oil
Industry Association, which represents employers, will ban all
members of three labor unions who are covered by offshore pay
agreements from midnight on July 9, Statoil said.  Brent Rises  Brent oil for August settlement advanced 93 cents, or 0.9
percent, to end the session at $100.70 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures Europe exchange. It was the highest settle
since May 31.  The planned lockout of oil workers in Norway will halt the
nation’s entire offshore production, which totals about 2
million barrels a day of oil equivalent, Bard Glad Pedersen, a
spokesman for Statoil ASA, said by phone today from Oslo.  “This strike and potential shutdown negatively impacts
North Sea supply, as such the price of the Brent benchmark;
that’s why this is significant,” said  Harry Tchilinguirian ,
head of commodity markets strategy at BNP Paribas SA in London.
“The government has the legal right to end the strike and
prevent the shutdown. The question is when they’ll use it.”  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 615,547
contracts as of 3:16 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 648,233
contracts July 3, 14 percent above the three-month average. Open
interest was 1.44 million.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  