-- Oil Drops in New York as Growth Concern Weighs on Demand Outlook
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-07-06T07:33:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/oil-drops-in-new-york-as-europe-concern-weighs-on-demand-outlook.html
Oil fell a second day in New York,
trimming a weekly gain, after interest-rate cuts in  Europe  and
 China  failed to assure investors the moves will be enough to
boost economic growth and support demand.  Futures slid as much as 1.6 percent, extending yesterday’s
0.5 percent drop, after European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said some “downside risks to the euro-area economic
outlook have materialized” as the ECB cut rates to a record
low. The People’s Bank of China also reduced borrowing costs.
Data today may show the pace of hiring in the U.S. accelerated
in June while unemployment was unchanged.  London ’s Brent crude
slipped amid speculation Norway’s government will stop a strike
by energy workers.  “From here on, the market will be settling down and
looking for evidence of improvement in demand,” said Ric Spooner, a chief market analyst at CMC Markets in Sydney. “We
will probably have to wait through to August or September to
really start assessing whether we’re getting any sort of a
bounce in world economies. Non-farm payrolls tonight loom as
potentially a significant short-term factor.”  Oil for August delivery decreased as much as $1.35 to
$85.87 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  and was at $86.24 at 8:25 a.m. London time. Prices are
1.5 percent higher this week and are heading for a second weekly
gain, the longest winning streak since April. Crude is down 13
percent this year.  West Texas Intermediate settled at $87.22 yesterday after
slipping 44 cents. Floor trading was closed July 4 for the U.S.
Independence Day holiday and transactions since the July 3 close
were booked with yesterday’s trades for settlement purposes.  Norway Strike  Brent oil for August settlement fell 94 cents, or 0.9
percent, to $99.76 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. The European benchmark’s  premium  to West Texas
Intermediate was at $13.52, compared with $13.48 yesterday.  A lockout planned for July 9 by the Norwegian Oil Industry
Association, which includes Exxon Mobil Corp. and BP Plc, will
probably force the government to intervene to end the walkout as
it did in 1997, 2000 and 2004, according to analysts including
Teodor Sveen Nilsen from Swedbank AB in Oslo.  Norway  produces
about 12 percent of Europe’s oil, according to BP’s Statistical
Review of World Energy.  Energy workers have been on strike since June 24 in a
dispute over pensions. The action has led to the loss of 2.58
million barrels of crude, costing the government and companies
2.25 billion Norwegian kroner ($375 million), Jan Hodneland,
chief negotiator of the industry association, said by phone
yesterday from Stavanger.  Oil Stockpiles  U.S. payrolls increased by 100,000 workers last month after
a 69,000 gain in May, according to the median forecast of 84
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News ahead of Labor Department
figures today. The  unemployment rate  probably remained at 8.2
percent.  U.S. oil stockpiles slipped  4.3 million barrels  last week,
a report from the Energy Department showed yesterday. They were
forecast to decline 2.3 million barrels, according to a
Bloomberg survey of analysts. Gasoline inventories rose 151,000
barrels, the report showed. They were projected to gain 1
million barrels. Distillate supplies, a category that includes
heating oil and diesel, fell 1.1 million barrels compared with
an estimated 1 million barrel increase.  Oil in  New York  may increase next week on signs of an
economic recovery in the U.S. and as inventories fell the most
in six months, a Bloomberg survey showed. Thirteen of 27
analysts, or 48 percent, forecast crude will rise through July
13. Eleven respondents, or 41 percent, predicted that futures
will decline and three said there will be little change in
prices. Last week, 38 percent of analysts projected a gain.  CME Group Inc. boosted margins on crude and natural-gas
futures contracts on Nymex as of the close of business July 9,
according to an e-mailed statement yesterday. The initial margin
for speculators in oil futures for the month nearest to
expiration will increase to $6,885 per contract from $6,210, the
notice shows.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  