-- Oil Rises to One-Month High as Strike Halts Norway Output
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2012-07-05T12:27:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/oil-advances-before-ecb-decision-u-s-crude-supply-data.html
Oil rose to its highest in a month in
 London  as  China  reduced  interest rates  for the second time in
four weeks, while a strike prompted  Norway ’s largest oil
producer to announce it would halt production.  Brent futures gained as much as 2.6 percent. China’s one-
year lending rate will fall by 31 basis points and the one-year
deposit rate will drop by 25 basis points effective tomorrow,
the People’s Bank of China said on its website today. About 2
million barrels a day of oil equivalent may be affected if a
planned lockout of Norwegian oil workers goes ahead, according
to  Statoil ASA. (STL)  Oil pared gains as the dollar strengthened after
the  European Central Bank  cut interest rates.  “This strike and potential shutdown negatively impacts
North Sea supply, as such the price of the Brent benchmark;
that’s why this is significant,” said  Harry Tchilinguirian ,
head of commodity markets strategy at BNP Paribas SA in London.
“The government has the legal right to end the strike and
prevent the shutdown. The question is when they’ll use it.”  Brent oil for August settlement rallied as much as $2.57 to
$102.34 a barrel, its highest price since June 7 on the London-
based ICE Futures Europe exchange. It was at $101.37 at 1:09
p.m. local time. The European benchmark’s premium to the U.S.
benchmark, West Texas Intermediate, rose to $13.14 from $12.11
yesterday.  All Offshore Output  Oil for August delivery on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange
was at $88.23, up 0.7 percent from its July 3 close. There was
no floor trading yesterday because of the U.S. Independence Day
holiday. Transactions since the last close will be booked with
today’s trades for settlement purposes. Prices are down 11
percent this year.  The Norwegian Oil Industry Association, which represents
employers, will ban all members of the Industri Energi, SAFE and
Lederne labor unions who are covered by offshore pay agreements
from midnight on July 9, Statoil said today on its website. The
lockout will halt the nation’s entire offshore production, which
totals about 2 million barrels a day of oil equivalent, Bard
Glad Pedersen, a spokesman for Statoil ASA, said by phone today
from Oslo.  “Keep in mind that this is exactly what the unions were
trying to avoid, as it should force intervention from the
government to force the workers back to work,” said  Olivier Jakob , managing director at consultants Petromatrix GmbH in Zug,
 Switzerland .  U.S. Stockpiles  The ECB cut interest rates to a record low and said it
won’t pay anything on overnight deposits as the sovereign debt
crisis threatens to drive the euro region into recession.  U.S. crude stockpiles probably  decreased  by 2.3 million
barrels last week, according to a Bloomberg survey before an
Energy Department report today. Inventories may have dropped as
Tropical Storm Debby delayed tanker arrivals and reduced output
at Gulf of Mexico platforms, the survey respondents said.  The industry-funded  American Petroleum Institute  stated
July 3 that crude supplies dropped by 3 million barrels to 382.6
million. Gasoline inventories declined by 1.4 million barrels,
according to data from the API.  The API collects stockpile information on a voluntary basis
from operators of refineries, bulk terminals and pipelines. The
government requires that reports be filed with the Energy
Department for its weekly survey.  U.S. employers increased payrolls by 90,000 workers last
month after a 69,000 gain in May, according to the median
forecast of 59 economists surveyed by Bloomberg ahead of Labor
Department figures due tomorrow. Excluding government agencies,
private hiring may have climbed by 100,000, concluding the
smallest quarterly rise since the first three months of 2010.  “Price action over today and tomorrow will be heavily
influenced by the outcome of the ECB meeting and the non-farm
payrolls report,” said BNP’s Tchilinguirian. “In the case of
the U.S. data, this will be key in shaping expectations around
whether or not the  Federal Reserve  implements a third round of
quantitative easing.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  