-- Police Arrest Three in News Corp. Phone Hacking, Bribery Probes
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y   a n d   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2012-07-05T10:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/london-police-arrest-man-in-news-corp-phone-hacking-probe.html
London police arrested a 26-year-old
News Corp. employee and two former health workers as part of
related probes into phone hacking and bribery at News Corp.’s
U.K. newspapers.  The 26-year-old man was arrested at an address in Surrey on
suspicion of conspiracy to pervert the course of justice in the
phone hacking probe known as Operation Weeting, the  Metropolitan
Police Service  said in a statement today. The man works at News
Corp.’s U.K. unit in a non-editorial role,  Daisy Dunlop , a
spokeswoman at News International, said by phone.  More than 50 people have been arrested in probes that are
under way as New York-based News Corp. plans to split the
company into separate entertainment and publishing arms.
Revelations a year ago that journalists at the News of the World
hacked the phone of a murdered schoolgirl led the company to
close the tabloid.  Rebekah Brooks, the former chief executive officer of News
Corp.’s U.K. unit, was charged in May with perverting the course
of justice in the probe. She denies the claims.  A 46-year-old man and a 42-year-old woman, both former
employees of the  National Health Service , were arrested in
Somerset in the Operation Elveden bribery probe. They are being
questioned by police.  Police said in a statement the Somerset arrests were as a
result of information handed over by New Corp.’s Management
Standards Committee, which is investigating misconduct within
the company. Dunlop declined to comment on the bribery probe.  Trinity Mirror  London police, who have arrested 37 people in the Elveden
probe, made their first arrest of a non- News Corp. (NWSA)  journalist
yesterday in the investigation. Greig Box Turnbull, a former
Trinity Mirror Plc reporter, was detained along with a 46-year-
old former prison officer and a 50-year-old woman.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  News Corp. has said it will split its entertainment
business from its publishing unit, including the subsidiary that
published the now-defunct News of the World.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in Brussels at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net ;
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  