-- Monti Uses Summit Success to Push Italy Overhaul: Euro Credit
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2012-07-05T08:58:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/monti-uses-summit-success-to-push-italy-overhaul-euro-credit.html
Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  is
trying to parlay his success last week in winning concessions
from European partners to shore up the country’s debt and
bolster efforts to revive the domestic economy.  Monti’s government plans to approve as soon as today more
than 4 billion euros ($5 billion) of spending cuts this year to
trim the size of the public administration and stave off further
tax increases. The initiative marks a renewed effort by Monti to
boost  growth  and competitiveness before his term ends in April.  The expense reductions come after German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  was persuaded at a June 28-29 meeting of euro-area
leaders to allow the region’s bailout funds to be used more
flexibly to help nations like  Italy  and  Spain  reverse surging
borrowing costs. Italy’s 10-year bond yield has fallen 37 basis
points to 5.83 percent since the meeting and Monti’s approval
rating rose in the first opinion poll since the summit in
Brussels.  “Monti will try to use his renewed strength to sell his
reforms at home,” said Mario Spreafico, who manages 1.5 billion
euros as chief investment officer at Schroders Private Banking
for Italy in Milan. “It’s important for him to keep an active
role in the European scene. Being incisive on the domestic side
doesn’t count that much when your spread is sinking the real
economy just because Italy is mistakenly compared to Spain.”  Blocking Merkel  At the meeting, Monti threatened to scuttle a 120 billion-
euro plan for growth favored by Merkel without concessions on
granting more flexibility to the region’s rescue funds to buy
bonds of countries completing their deficit pledges. Merkel
eventually agreed to language supporting Monti’s so-called
spread shield that seeks to bring down borrowing costs for
countries meeting their fiscal commitments.  Italian newspapers compared Monti’s performance to that of
 Mario Balotelli , the Italian soccer player who scored two goals
to beat  Germany  in the European Cup semi-final. The game took
place on June 28 when European leaders were well into a 13-hour
marathon meeting to find ways to contain the debt crisis.  In the run-up to the meeting, Italy’s 10-year bond yield
climbed to more than 6 percent after Spain requested aid for its
ailing banks on June 9, fueling concern Italy would be next. The
jump in rates occurred even as Italy was working to bring down
this year’s deficit to within the EU’s 3 percent of gross
domestic product ceiling. The government will have a so-called
primary surplus to reduce the debt level in 2013.  Borrowing Costs  The post-summit drop in yields will ease financing costs
for a country that needs to sell about 35 billion euros of debt
per month on average. The outcome of the meeting also eased
unrest among supporters of Monti’s unelected government, some of
whom had raised the possibility of early elections unless the
premier secured backing in Brussels.  “The positive outcome put an end to the tiresome debate
over the duration of the government,” Franco Marini, a senator
for the  Democratic Party  that backs Monti, said on July 3 after
Monti testified to Parliament. “The tough situation of our
economy imposes upon the government and the majority supporting
it an extraordinary commitment until the end of the legislature
to stop the recession and support a recovery.”  Monti is now trying to renew efforts to revamp an economy
burdened by the euro-region’s second-biggest debt and where
growth has trailed the euro-area average for more than a decade.
Upon being appointed to replace  Silvio Berlusconi  in November,
Monti passed an overhaul of the pension system, a 20 billion-
euro austerity package to shore up public finances and a plan to
boost competitiveness by opening up closed professions.  Job Cuts  The premier then moved to overhaul the labor market by
expanding  unemployment benefits  and easing rules around the
termination of workers. Opposition from unions and the
Democratic Party forced Monti to water down changes to firing
rules, prompting criticism that his reform agenda had stalled.  To show European allies he could still deliver, he called
confidence votes on the labor market plan to get parliament to
approve it a day before the start of the summit.  Monti, 69, is keeping up the pressure by passing the
spending review by decree, meaning it will take effect
immediately even before parliament votes on it. The multi-year
plan will cut transfers to regional governments, limit the scope
of the public health-care system, reduce the size of the civil
service, and force government ministries to scale back spending.  More than 200,000 civil servants and regional officials may
eventually lose their jobs and hundreds of hospitals will be
shut,  Corriere della Sera  reported today.  Tax Increase  Part of the savings will be used to put off a planned
increase in the value-added tax due in October as the government
seeks to avoid further damping consumer demand with Italy mired
in its  fourth recession  since 2001.  Monti has opposition from Italy’s two biggest unions, which
have threatened to strike. Democratic Party leader Pier Luigi Bersani has said touching health-care and education spending
would be unacceptable.  With nine months left in his term, Monti should focus on
curtailing “ tax havens , the spending review and the growth
plan,” said Peter Ceretti, an analyst at Eurasia Group in  New
York . “These are the fronts where the Monti’s government can
make some progress.”  Monti also needs to do more in terms of selling state-owned
assets, Ceretti said. The government has direct stakes worth
about 10 billion euros in  Eni SpA (ENI)  and  Enel SpA (ENEL) , the country’s
two biggest energy companies, and controls real estate that the
previous government estimated at more 300 billion euros.  “We don’t think last week’s EU summit was a game-
changer,” said Thomas Costerg, an economist at Standard
Chartered Bank in  London . “Some progress was made, and European
leaders showed their readiness to compromise, but the bigger
picture remains broadly unchanged: Growth is collapsing,
particularly in the south, and the bailout funds aren’t big
enough to cope should stress intensify.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chiara Vasarri at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net  