-- Top Rank on Line as Federer Plays Djokovic for Wimbledon Final
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-07-05T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/top-rank-on-line-as-federer-plays-djokovic-for-wimbledon-final.html
Even for  Roger Federer , winner of a
men’s record 16 Grand Slam singles titles, today’s meeting with
defending champion Novak Djokovic for a spot in the final at
Wimbledon is something special.  Federer will be contesting his first semifinal at the All
England Club in London in three years, and his 32nd in a Grand
Slam event. The oldest semifinalist at 30, the Swiss right-
hander hasn’t won a major title since the 2010 Australian Open.  Federer also is aiming to regain the top spot in the ATP
World Tour rankings, where he’s one week short of tying  Pete Sampras ’s record of 286 weeks at No. 1. He must beat Djokovic
and win Wimbledon to do it.  “It’s a big deal,” Federer, a quarterfinalist the past
two years who lost his No. 1 ranking in 2010, said in a news
conference. “No denying.  Obviously it feels great being back
in the semis.”  The winner of the match between Federer and Djokovic will
play a first-time Wimbledon finalist -- Britain’s  Andy Murray  or
France’s Jo-Wilfried Tsonga. No British man has taken a Grand
Slam singles title since  Fred Perry  won in London in 1936.  The women’s final will be played tomorrow between four-time
champion  Serena Williams  of the U.S. and Agnieszka Radwanska of
Poland.  Ace Record  Williams served a Wimbledon-record 24 aces in beating
Victoria Azarenka 6-3, 7-6 (8-6) yesterday. Radwanska became the
first Polish woman to reach the Wimbledon championship match in
75 years by defeating Angelique Kerber 6-3, 6-4.  Djokovic knocked  Rafael Nadal  off the top spot a year ago
when he beat the left-hander from Spain in the Wimbledon final.
The right-hander from  Serbia  said he’s not thinking about his
ranking.  “When you’re playing at this stage of a Grand Slam against
one of your biggest rivals, there is a lot of things involved, a
lot of things on the line,” Djokovic said after he ousted
 Florian Mayer  of Germany in straight sets in the quarterfinals.
“It’s not the first time that I’m playing to win or lose a
ranking. It’s not something that I think about too much. I
really just want to focus on the match.”  Grass First  Although it will be their 27th meeting, and a record 11th
in one of the four majors, Federer and Djokovic have never met
before on a grass court. Federer leads 14-12, losing their past
three matches. Djokovic came back from match points down at the
U.S. Open semifinals in 2010 and 2011, and beat Federer in
straight set in the semifinals of last month’s  French Open .  Federer said he’s not trying to think about winning his
seventh Wimbledon championship, which would tie the record held
by Sampras and  William Renshaw .  “Once I get to the semis, I’m playing some of my best
tennis usually,” said Federer, who beat  Mikhail Youzhny  in the
quarterfinals. “I’m aware that Novak is the defending champion
and the world No. 1. That’s not going to make it easy to come
through. That’s the focus now instead of taking it two steps at
a time where I know I’m holding the trophy.”  Djokovic said to expect a close encounter.  “Very few points decide the winner,” he said. “I won two
years in a row against him with match points down, so I can’t
really say I’ve been winning comfortably those matches. That’s
what I expect in the next one, as well. We never played on grass,
so I think it’s going to be interesting for both of us to see
what happens.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at Wimbledon through the  London  sports desk at
   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  