-- OraSure Rises to Highest Price Since 2005 on HIV Test
-- B y   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k   a n d   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-07-05T20:10:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/orasure-rises-to-highest-price-since-2005-on-hiv-test.html
OraSure Technologies Inc. (OSUR)  rose to its
highest value in almost seven years after the company won U.S.
regulatory approval for the first at-home HIV test that lets
people get results without using a doctor or laboratory.  OraSure gained 10 percent to $13.36 at the close in New
York, following the  Food and Drug Administration ’s  decision  on
July 3 to allow sales of the nonprescription saliva test. U.S.
markets were closed yesterday for the Fourth of July. The shares
reached $13.65, their highest price since Dec. 5, 2005.  About 250,000 people at risk of HIV aren’t tested, a number
that the device may reduce, said advisers to the FDA who
supported approval. Bethlehem, Pennsylvania-based OraSure may
become a takeover target and its shares could rise to $17 in the
next year, said Spencer Nam, an analyst with ThinkEquity LLC.  “I see these guys really cornering the market for a
while,” said Nam, who is based in  Boston  and has a buy rating
on OraSure shares. “There are a few companies that have HIV
tests, but none that have oral fluid tests.”  It’s too soon to say what companies might be interested in
buying OraSure, Nam said. Douglas Michels, OraSure president and
chief executive officer, declined to comment on whether the
company had been approached as an acquisition target.  “Our objective is to build a very large, healthy and
profitable business and that’s our sole focus,” Michels said in
a telephone interview.  Product Pricing  Johnson & Johnson, which tried and failed to market its own
over-the-counter HIV test kit in the late 1990s, may be a
potential buyer, said Scott Gleason, a  Little Rock , Arkansas-
based analyst with Stephens Inc. Gleason, who has an overweight
rating on OraSure, said he expects the shares to climb to $15
within the next year.  “We do not comment on market speculation,” said Al Wasilewski, a spokesman for  New Brunswick , New Jersey-based J&J.  The OraQuick In-Home HIV Test offers results within 20 to
40 minutes and can be sold without a prescription. If the price
for the product is set at $40, sales may reach $20 million next
year, said Caroline Corner, a senior analyst with McNicoll,
Lewis & Vlak in New York, before the agency’s announcement.  The retail market potential will total more than $500
million, Michels said. While OraSure hasn’t disclosed how much
it will charge for the test, Michels said the company
anticipates a price of less than $60. Retailers typically
receive as much as a 35 percent discount, he said.  The test should be available by October in 30,000 stores,
such as  Walgreen Co. (WAG)  locations, and online, Michels said.  Targeted Customers  About 1.2 million people in the U.S. have HIV, the virus
that causes AIDS, and 20 percent of those people are unaware
they are infected, according to the Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention.  OraSure expects its product to be bought by people who
don’t test themselves now and by people seeing a doctor for
screenings who want to test more frequently, according to a
transcript of a company conference call with analysts today.  OraSure also markets the only FDA-approved rapid test that
detects HIV antibodies in oral fluid and provides results in a
clinic or doctor’s office. Other at-home kits, such as Home
Access Health Corp.’s Express HIV Test System, require users to
send blood samples to a laboratory.  More than 16,000 people with AIDS were estimated to have
died in 2008, the CDC said. About 50,000 new U.S. cases are
reported a year, according to the CDC.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net ;
Jeanna Smialek in  New York  at 
 jsmialek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  