-- Morgan Stanley Sees Philippine Stocks Rallying
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-07-06T08:01:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/morgan-stanley-sees-philippine-stocks-rallying-southeast-asia.html
Philippine (PASHR)  stocks,  Asia ’s most
expensive equities, may rise a further 25 percent this year as
the economy grows, according to  Jonathan Garner , Morgan
Stanley’s chief Asia and emerging-market strategist.  The  Philippine Stock Exchange Index (PCOMP)  rallied 23 percent in
2012 to a record yesterday, the world’s fifth-best performer,
amid government plans to boost spending while narrowing the
 budget deficit . The gauge’s  valuation  of 16.4 times estimated
earnings is the highest of 15 Asian Pacific markets tracked by
Bloomberg and is approaching the biggest premium to the MSCI
Emerging Markets Index since November 2006.  Standard & Poor’s  increased the country’s debt rating on
July 4 to BB+, the highest level since 2003 and one step below
investment grade. The endorsement helps President  Benigno Aquino 
as he boosts spending to a record this year and seeks $16
billion of investment in roads, bridges and airports.  JG Summit
Holdings Inc. (JGS)  and Ayala Corp. have led stock  advances  this year
on speculation the government’s investment plans will boost
consumer demand.  “The  Philippines  has a strong economic story and
considerable external balance strength,” Hong Kong-based Garner
said in an e-mail yesterday. “We expect Philippine equities to
continue to perform well.”  Aquino plans to narrow the budget shortfall to 2 percent of
 gross domestic product  by 2013 from a target of 2.6 percent this
year. The government has stepped up efforts to catch tax evaders
and smugglers, and has drawn up bills aimed at increasing
revenue to narrow the fiscal deficit.  Growth Forecast  The $200 billion economy grew 6.4 percent in the first
quarter, the fastest pace since 2010. Aquino is aiming for an
expansion of as much as 8 percent annually to cut poverty.
That’s more than double the International Monetary Fund’s 3.5
percent growth forecast for the global economy this year.  Shares of JG Summit, owner of the nation’s biggest budget
airline, climbed 38 percent this year, and  Ayala (AC) , owner of the
largest homebuilder, jumped 54 percent. JG trades at 16.5 times
estimated profit, while Ayala is valued at a multiple of 23,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The Philippines has a lot of things going for it: a
reform-minded government, good GDP growth,” Herald Van Der Linde, Hong Kong-based head of Asia Pacific equity strategy at
HSBC Holdings Plc, said in e-mailed comments yesterday. “This
allows the market to remain at elevated valuation levels for
some time. But it is also Asia’s most expensive market. The
rally might cool.”  HSBC has an underweight rating on Philippine equities with
a year-end target for the  benchmark index  of 5,350. The gauge
fell 0.1 percent to 5,362.68 at today’s close after rising to a
record yesterday.  Investment Grade  S&P’s move to raise the Southeast Asian nation’s debt
rating to BB+ follows that of Moody’s Investors Service which
upgraded the nation’s rating outlook in May to positive, citing
improving debt levels. Moody’s still ranks the $200 billion
economy at the second-highest junk level.  Fitch Ratings  raised
its assessment to one step below investment grade last year.  Standard Chartered Plc recommended in a report last month
that clients buy the peso via the non-deliverable forwards
market, saying it expects the Philippines to achieve an
investment-grade rating by 2014.  The peso is up about 5 percent against the dollar in 2012,
the best performer in a basket of 11 major Asian currencies
tracked by Bloomberg, as foreign investors purchased $1.78
billion of Philippine shares this year.  “There are funds who invest taking into account a
country’s credit rating status,” said Allan Yu, who helps
manage about $9.39 billion at Manila-based Metropolitan Bank &
Trust Co. “Some funds move ahead before a market reaches
investment grade status, which could happen for the country next
year, so we could see more foreign inflows.”  Bond Sale  A higher investment grade reduces the cost of borrowing for
the country and its companies, Yu said.  The Philippines plans to boost global bond sales to $3
billion in 2013 from this year’s $2.25 billion target to fund
spending on roads, airports and social services, Finance
Undersecretary Rosalia de Leon said in an interview yesterday.  The Philippine index’s estimated price-to-earnings ratio of
16.4 times is 19 percent higher than the average since Bloomberg
began tracking the data in 2006. The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP) ,
the largest emerging-market gauge by value, trades at 9.6 times
earnings, about half its historical average, the  data  show. The
MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index is valued at 10.2 times.  Morgan Stanley has the equivalent of a hold recommendation
on Philippine stocks because valuations are above long-term
average levels at a time when some other markets trade at
discounts.  “We are equal weight, which, given there is 25 percent
upside to our year-end target price of 1,210 for the MSCI EM
index, means we should see something similar for the
Philippines,” said Morgan Stanley’s Garner.  --Zhang Shidong. With assistance by Ian Sayson in  Manila .
Editors: Richard Frost, Darren Boey  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  