-- Most Governors Won’t Commit to U.S. Medicaid Expansion
-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e   a n d   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2012-07-05T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/most-governors-won-t-commit-to-u-s-medicaid-expansion.html
Governors in five states say they
oppose expanding their Medicaid programs under President  Barack Obama ’s health-care overhaul, and another 26 haven’t decided, an
option created by a U.S. Supreme Court ruling that may prevent
millions of low-income Americans from obtaining insurance.  Governors of Florida, Louisiana, Iowa,  South Carolina  and
Mississippi object, saying they’re concerned rising health-care
costs may force tax increases or cuts to services, even as the
federal government is promising to cover all the added Medicaid
costs in the first three years and 90 percent after that. The
federal reimbursement is about 59 percent now, on average.  Most of the governors resisting the Medicaid expansion are
Republicans who objected to the health-care law as
unconstitutional or too costly. If all 31 states don’t go along,
as many as 11.4 million Americans who would otherwise be
eligible for expanded Medicaid may be left without the coverage
that Obama and Congress intended to offer, according to the
 Urban Institute , a Washington-based research group.  Without Medicaid, states are unlikely to have the resources
to fill the gap, said Genevieve Kenney, a researcher at the
institute.  “I don’t see a way for these folks to get coverage,”
Kenney said.  Supreme Court  A U.S.  Supreme Court  ruling on June 28 upheld the heart of
Obama’s health-care law, requiring most people to obtain
insurance or pay a fine, an idea originally embraced by
Republicans. The justices also ruled that the federal government
can’t threaten to withhold existing Medicaid money from states
that don’t fully comply, as the law said, allowing states to opt
out.  Obama’s health-care law, called the Patient Protection and
Affordable Care Act, was designed to open the state-run program
to an estimated 17 million low-income Americans by admitting
people earning as much as 133 percent of the federal poverty
level, or about $30,657 for a family of four this year.  The five Republican governors said they are opposed to the
expansion in public statements or in interviews with their
spokesmen.  Governors in at least 26 states -- 23 Republicans and three
Democrats -- said they’re reviewing the decision or are waiting
for the outcome of the November presidential election because
 Mitt Romney , the presumptive Republican nominee, has called for
repealing the health law.  Democratic Governors  The three Democrats are Jay Nixon in  Missouri , John Hickenlooper in Colorado and Earl Ray Tomblin in West Virginia.
Republican governors include  Rick Perry  of Texas and  Scott Walker  of Wisconsin.  Indiana Governor  Mitch Daniels , who leaves office in
January, said the next governor and Legislature will need to
decide how to proceed.  Florida Governor Rick Scott said July 1 that implementation
of the Medicaid expansion alone would cost the state about $1.9
billion. Scott said in a statement that “the burden
increasingly shifts to Florida taxpayers.”  From 2014 to 2019, Florida would have to pay $1.23 billion
in state money and would receive $20.1 billion in federal funds,
according to the  Kaiser Family Foundation , a health-research
group in Menlo Park, California.  Bobby Jindal  of Louisiana said he isn’t implementing the
health-care law and wants Romney to defeat Obama and help undo
the measure. Mississippi Governor Phil Bryant doesn’t plan to
expand Medicaid even if Obama wins, said Mick Bullock, a
spokesman, in an e-mail.  Providing Care  While Republican Governor Terry Branstad of Iowa hasn’t
made an announcement, it’s “highly unlikely” the state will
expand Medicaid because the governor doesn’t trust the federal
government to keep its promises, said Tim Albrecht, a spokesman.  Iowa will be able to provide coverage to “a significant
number” of 150,000 uninsured residents with state health-care
initiatives, Albrecht said.  Republican Governor Dave Heineman of Nebraska also said in
a June 28 statement that he would oppose efforts to raise taxes
or cut education funding to pay for a Medicaid expansion.  Governor  Chris Christie , a  New Jersey  Republican, said
previous Democratic governors expanded Medicaid about as far as
the state can afford.  “We’re taking a hard look at it,” Christie said July 3 on
Fox Business Network. “I doubt that we could expand Medicaid in
New Jersey a whole lot more.”  Rejecting Expansion  Governors will have difficulty rejecting Medicaid expansion
as they face pressure from constituents, said I. Glenn Cohen, a
professor at  Harvard Law School  in Cambridge, Massachusetts, who
specializes in health issues.  “It’s a very hard thing for a governor, as a matter of
principle, to turn down funding and basically keep a number of
his constituents who are poor basically without health care,”
Cohen said in a telephone interview.  Even if a governor supports the expansion, legislatures
could still decline to authorize the funding, said Ray Scheppach, the former executive director of the  National
Governors Association  who is now a professor of public policy at
the  University of Virginia  in Charlottesville.  “The state fiscal situation continues to be pretty bad,
and this is going to make it worse,” Scheppach said.  States’ decisions will affect providers.  Hospital Impact  Hospitals, especially those that treat many poor people,
have warned that failing to expand Medicaid could put them in
financial jeopardy. Managed-care companies that focus on
Medicaid, including Virginia Beach, Virginia-based  Amerigroup
Corp. (AGP)  and  Saint Louis , Missouri-based  Centene Corp. (CNC) , won’t see
as many customers as they had expected if governors opt out of
the expansion.  The Medicaid expansion would cost states $21 billion
through 2019, according to Kaiser. The federal government would
contribute $444 billion, the group said in the report.  States whose Medicaid programs now have the lowest
eligibility standards stand to gain the most.  Texas, for example, where working-age adults with children
are ineligible for Medicaid if they make more than a quarter of
the poverty level -- and childless adults aren’t eligible at all
-- would be turning down $52.5 billion from 2014 to 2019, or 20
times the amount it would spend on the expansion itself,
according to Kaiser.  Perry, the Texas governor, on June 28 called the Supreme
Court decision “a stomach punch to the American economy,” and
said he would consult with state officials.  U.S. Contribution  Congress may reduce the federal government’s contribution,
said Dean Clancy, legislative counsel and vice president for
health policy at FreedomWorks, a Washington nonprofit that
supports  Tea Party  groups.  “It’s a trap,” Clancy said. “It’s free money today that
won’t be free tomorrow.”  States should instead lobby Congress to convert their
Medicaid funding into a “block grant,” which would give
greater flexibility, he said. Governors would have more freedom
to run the program, and could stop covering some services or use
the money to subsidize private health insurance for the poor,
Clancy said.  Georgia Governor Nathan Deal said it may be in Georgians’
best interests to participate in the expansion despite his
personal opposition. The Republican has said he’s concerned that
Georgians, as federal taxpayers, will be paying for expansions
in other states even if the state opts out.  “That’s certainly a question we would have to ask, if
that’s prudent,” he said at a June 28 news conference at the
state Capitol.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Niquette in Columbus  at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  