-- Power Restoration Efforts Complicated by Heat, Storms
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a a s
-- 2012-07-06T14:21:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/thousands-of-americans-lacking-power-amid-heat-wave.html
Heat and a new series of storms have
complicated utility crew efforts to restore electricity to
thousands of customers in the Midwest and mid-Atlantic who are
entering a seventh day without power.  Exelon Corp.’s (EXC)  Baltimore Gas & Electric said 90,000 more
customers lost power after triple-digit temperatures and
overnight storms. That’s in addition to the 25,935 BG&E
customers that remain without electricity after a June 29 storm
brought rain, lightning and wind gusts of 91 miles per hour
across 10 states and the  District of Columbia .  “Restoration of these new outages may be delayed due to
the company’s continued priority focus on outages related to
last Friday’s storm,” Chicago-based Exelon said in a  statement 
today.  More than  416,000 homes and businesses  lacked electricity
as of 9 a.m.  New York  time, according to the U.S. Energy
Department. Known as a derecho, the storm disrupted electricity
for as many as 4.3 million customers from North Carolina to New
Jersey, causing the most widespread blackouts since  Hurricane
Irene  struck in August.  High temperatures and the possibility of another round of
damaging thunderstorms are forecast for the mid-Atlantic this
weekend, according to the Storm Prediction Center in Norman,
Oklahoma. Baltimore reached 101 degrees Fahrenheit (38 Celsius)
yesterday, with a forecast high of 104 tomorrow, according to
the  National Weather Service . Washington is expected to reach
101 today and 103 tomorrow.  Ohio Customers  American Electric Power Co. (AEP) , which serves customers in
Ohio, West Virginia, Virginia and Kentucky, restored power to
most of the more than 11,000 customers in Ohio affected by
storms last night, according to a  statement  today. More than 1.4
million of the Columbus, Ohio-based company’s customers were
affected by a storm, the most since Hurricane Ike in 2008.  FirstEnergy Corp. (FE)  has 81,000 customers without electricity
in West Virginia and expects to restore power to the majority by
July 9, the company said in a statement yesterday.  Pepco Holdings Inc. (POM) , which delivers power in the Washington
area, has 1,792 customer blackouts. Bringing electricity back to
the last homes and businesses may take until July 9.  “The extensive damage associated with the remaining
outages makes restoring service to these customers especially
challenging,” the company said in a  statement  yesterday.  Virginia Power  Dominion Resources Inc. (D) , the largest utility in Virginia,
has restored service to more than 98 percent of the 1 million
customers that lost power from the storm, according to its
website.  Almost all of the company’s customers in Northern Virginia
and the Richmond metropolitan area will have power restored by
tonight. The June 29 storm was “the largest non-hurricane event
in the company’s history,” Richmond, Virginia-based Dominion
said in a July 4 statement.  On July 1, President  Barack Obama  declared West Virginia
and Ohio federal disaster areas. Other states affected were
Virginia, Kentucky, Indiana, Pennsylvania, Delaware and New
Jersey, according to the Edison Electric Institute, a
Washington-based group that represents utilities.  “Very intense hot weather continues in the short range for
the Midwest, Deep South, and East with more record high
temperatures probably in many spots into this weekend,” said
 Matt Rogers , president of Commodity Weather Group LLC in
Bethesda, Maryland.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Haas in New York at 
 bhaas7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tina Davis at 
 tinadavis@bloomberg.net  