-- How Gay Americans Went From Criminals to Brides, Grooms
-- B y   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 2012-07-05T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/how-gay-americans-went-from-criminals-to-brides-grooms.html
Linda Hirshman’s “ Victory: The
Triumphant Gay Revolution ” is harder-headed than its giddy
title suggests.  Most Americans over 40 have experienced the forward march
of gay rights as the product of a gradual change in the social
air. Hirshman, a retired professor and labor lawyer with a Ph.D.
in philosophy, is more interested in the movement’s legislative
and judicial ups and downs, and she’s got an opinion about every
one of them.  She flays the obvious villains (Lewis Powell, Sam Nunn) and
a few surprising ones (Tom Hayden). She goes after some of the
heroes, too, for making strategic decisions she considers inept.  Nor does she get misty about the otherwise courageous men
who laid the foundations of the movement in the frightening days
before Stonewall but were tone-deaf to feminism and, in some
cases, just plain didn’t like women.  Her style is breezy (sometimes gratingly so), but her
research is very solid; most of her best material comes from the
more than 100 interviews she conducted. Her analysis of what
makes social movements succeed is always thoughtful and
sometimes profound.  No Pleading  Hirshman, who is straight, doesn’t insult the reader by
“defending” homosexuality or making an argument for equal
rights; the day for that kind of pleading, her approach implies,
is over. Anyway, she doesn’t have time.  She’s writing for a general audience, not an academic one,
and she refuses to plod, covering a century of struggle in less
than 350 pages of text. The result is always entertaining and
frequently exhilarating.  As a lawyer, Hirshman is especially lucid on the  Supreme
Court  -- more lucid, sometimes, than the court itself. In the
notorious 1986 Bowers v. Hardwick, it upheld  Georgia ’s right to
criminalize sodomy, dismissing gay claims to equal protection as
“facetious.”  The decision had the paradoxical but predictable effect of
electrifying a movement dispirited at that point by thousands of
AIDS deaths and the Reagan Administration’s indifference to
them. A year later, the furiously inventive AIDS protest group
ACT UP initiated a new phase in the fight for rights.  The antigay forces eventually went too far. In the 1996
Romer v. Evans, the court overturned an outrageous initiative
that Colorado voters had passed depriving homosexuals of a whole
gamut of legal protections that, it held, were “taken for
granted by most people ... in a free society.”  Clinton Years  That decision led the way to the 2003 Lawrence v.  Texas , in
which the court finally (if belatedly) overturned the repulsive
Bowers v. Hardwick.  Hirshman chronicles the gloomy origins of Don’t Ask Don’t
Tell early in the Clinton administration and the tortuous path
to its abolition last year.  She shows how the Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA),
restricting marriage to opposite-sex partners, “sailed through
Congress” in 1996 and was signed into law by a cowardly  Bill
Clinton  during “full campaign season.”  After considerable squirming, the Obama administration
backed away from the law; at the end of May, a federal appeals
court ruled it unconstitutional.  Approaching Victory  Although Hirshman acknowledges that “Victory” is a title
open to misinterpretation, her rationale for using it is clear.
Her book demonstrates that the reversal in social attitudes
toward gay men and lesbians, despite various (but always
temporary) political and judicial setbacks, is itself
irreversible.  When the question of marriage lands before the Supreme
Court, it could disgrace itself with a repeat of Bowers v.
Hardwick. But Hirshman very skillfully shows that, even if it
does, down the road a court drawn from a less bigoted generation
will inevitably send such a warped decision into the dustbin of
history.  “Victory” is published by Harper (443 pages, $27.99). To
buy this book in  North America , click  here .  ( Craig Seligman  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on  cars  and  Peter
Rainer  on  film .  To contact the writer on the story:
Craig Seligman at  cseligman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 