-- Pena Nieto Rejects Vote-Buying Charges After Stores Shuttered
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2012-07-05T22:26:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/pena-nieto-rejects-vote-buying-charges-after-stores-shuttered.html
Mexico ’s incoming president Enrique Pena Nieto pushed back against charges that his party paid for
votes as authorities finish a recount confirming his victory.  Pena Nieto, in an interview with  CNN , questioned the
accuracy of images purportedly showing shoppers mobbing
supermarkets to use gift cards provided by his  Institutional
Revolutionary Party , or PRI, in exchange for vote promises.  “There’s no grounds” for much of these allegations, Pena
Nieto said. “Let’s give the electoral tribunal a chance to
weigh the evidence presented regarding these statements which,
as I repeat, have no grounds.”  Presidential candidate  Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador  has
challenged preliminary results showing him finishing 6.5
percentage points behind Pena Nieto, calling the contest “a
national embarrassment” and accusing the PRI of spending
“billions of pesos” to buy votes after being out of power for
12 years. His coalition said it had detected irregularities at
more than half of polling stations, though foreign observers
have praised authorities’ handling of the vote.  Mexico City officials shuttered two supermarkets belonging
to the Organizacion Soriana SAB chain following the July 1
election after they were mobbed by shoppers cashing in gift
cards, citing safety concerns.  Standing outside a closed Soriana store in Mexico City,
Rogelio Garcia said people wearing PRI T-shirts came to his home
last week and put a party sticker on his front door in exchange
for two gift cards worth a total of 2,300 pesos ($172). The
retailer has denied any involvement in the card distribution,
and the PRI has denied any vote-buying.  “The woman said she came on behalf of the PRI,” Garcia
said. “People said, ‘don’t take it,’ but why not? I voted for
whomever I wanted in the end.”  Vote Recount  A recount of votes by the Federal Electoral Institute, or
IFE, gave Pena Nieto 38.3 percent, compared with 31.5 percent
for  Lopez Obrador  and 25.5 percent for Josefina Vazquez Mota of
the  National Action Party , or PAN. The figures are similar to
those in the preliminary count challenged by Lopez Obrador.  While saying she would respect the election’s results,
Vazquez Mota called on electoral authorities today to “review,
with great detail, campaign spending that evidently was greater
than the limit established by law, and which in addition has
been associated with buying and forcing votes.”  The number of cards involved in the allegations, at least
9,000, “could make it more probable to formulate that a crime
of buying or forcing votes was committed,” said Ricardo
Becerra, a coordinator for IFE’s advisers.  Widespread Practice  “We’re not asking for any favors, we’re asking for the law
to be respected,” Lopez Obrador told reporters July 3 at his
campaign headquarters in Mexico City.  The practice of giving out electoral paraphernalia is
widespread, said Roderic Ai Camp, a Mexico specialist and
government professor at  Claremont McKenna College  in Claremont,
 California .  “It’s true of all parties,” he said by phone. “Militants
at the local level are still using these techniques from years
ago. And of course there’s not empirical data that it actually
affects people’s behavior.”  The practice is only illegal if it is meant to directly
affect how you’re going to vote, “and of course that’s a pretty
vague notion,” Ai Camp said.  Preliminary  results  from the IFE had shown Pena Nieto
captured 38.2 percent of votes, compared with 31.6 percent for
Lopez Obrador. Pena Nieto received 3.19 million votes more than
Lopez Obrador, the data show.  Transparent  Mexican authorities are calling the July 1 vote the most-
transparent in the country’s history and a mission of foreign
observers led by former Colombian President Cesar Gaviria also
gave their approval, saying that whatever irregularities were
detected don’t take away from what was a well-run election.  Still, dozens of protesters gathered July 3 outside IFE’s
main office in Mexico City, shouting anti-PRI and anti-Pena
Nieto chants. They were separated from the complex’s gates by a
two-deep cordon of at least 100 police officers clad in green
reflective jackets.  Lopez Obrador, 58, lost the 2006 election to current
President  Felipe Calderon  by less than a percentage point. To
protest the result, which he said was fraudulent, he occupied
Mexico City’s central plaza and main business avenue for weeks
with encampments.  The candidate has given no indication he will follow a
similar strategy this time round, instead saying complaints
about the election will be filed to the electoral institute.  “The irony is that if he hadn’t behaved the way he did six
years ago in not recognizing the election results he would have
very likely won this election,” Ai Camp said.  Market Reaction  Mexico’s peso depreciated 0.65 percent today to 13.4205
against the  U.S. dollar  from 13.3337 yesterday. Yields on
benchmark peso bonds maturing in 2024 fell 7 basis points, or
0.07 percentage point, to 5.324 percent.  In 2006, the peso lost 6.3 percent in the six months
leading up to the election. This year, it gained 4.3 percent
over the same period, making it the best performer among major
currencies.  Pena Nieto has pledged initiatives to increase Mexico’s tax
collection, boost formal employment and allow greater private
investment in the oil industry.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Eric Martin  in Mexico City at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net ;
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 