-- Pentagon Freeing $1.1 Billion Withheld From Pakistan
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-07-05T18:28:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/pentagon-freeing-1-1-billion-withheld-from-pakistan.html
The Pentagon is preparing to release
about $1.1 billion withheld from  Pakistan ’s military after that
nation agreed this week to reopen supply routes into
Afghanistan.  The withheld dollars are part of the U.S. Coalition Support
Fund to reimburse Pakistan for its support of U.S. counter-
insurgency operations, Pentagon spokesman Navy Captain John Kirby told reporters today.  Payments were suspended last year amid increased U.S.-
Pakistan tensions even before Pakistan closed the land routes
into Afghanistan in November as a result of an accidental U.S.
attack that killed 24 Pakistani soldiers. Pakistan, which had
demanded a U.S. apology for the deaths, agreed to reopen the
lines after Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said “we are
sorry” in a statement on June 3.  “Several trucks have gone through and this will
continue,” Kirby told reporters today. “The traffic is
starting to flow,” he said.  Asked if Defense Secretary Leon Panetta agreed with
Clinton’s statement of “deepest regrets,” Kirby said Panetta
“fully supports the approach that was taken.”  While the apology, supply line reopenings and funds
transfer were important developments, “it would be a mistake to
believe that US-Pak relations are now ‘back on track,’” Alan
Kronstadt, a South Asia analyst for the nonpartisan
 Congressional Research Service , said today.  Drone Disputes  “Disputes over drone strikes, intelligence
sharing/cooperation, and the role of the Haqqani Network remain
serious and unresolved,” Kronstadt said.  Haqqani Network extremists launch attacks on coalition
forces  and civilians in Afghanistan from Pakistani safe havens.  Using northern routes as an alternative means to ship
supplies into Afghanistan was costing the U.S. about $100
million a month, Panetta said last month. The Pakistan routes
were shut for seven months.  Kirby said he didn’t expect the Pentagon to substantially
modify a request to shift about $2.1 billion in Pentagon funding
into Army and Air Force accounts to pay for the actual and
anticipated costs of using the costlier northern land and air
routes to move supplies in and out of  Afghanistan . Kirby said he
didn’t have a breakdown of the costs.  The request is contained in an $8.6 billion Pentagon
“reprogramming” that was sent Congress.  “We do not believe there will be major changes as a result
of the opening,” Kirby said of the $2.1 billion potential
shift.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  