-- Perry Capital Sued by Solus in Madoff Claims Dispute
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-07-06T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/perry-capital-sued-by-solus-over-195-million-madoff-claims-1-.html
Perry Capital LLC was sued by Solus
Alternative Asset Management LP over allegations the hedge fund
firm made a “willful breach of its obligations” to sell its
share of $195 million in claims in Bernard Madoff’s estate.  Perry agreed to the trade over the telephone and with
“instant messages” that are part of Bloomberg LP’s
communications systems for clients, Solus said in a complaint in
 New York  state court in  Manhattan . Solus is seeking $20 million
in damages.  Perry bought a participation in the claims from a unit of
Deutsche Bank AG, Solus said in its complaint. With the unit’s
help, the two hedge fund firms were ready to close the trade by
early June, Solus said.  “Despite repeated demands by Solus since early June, Perry
Capital has refused to honor the binding contract,” Solus said
in its July 3 filing. “Suffering a case of seller’s remorse,
Perry Capital went radio silent and told its lawyers to put pens
down.”  Mike Neus, general counsel at New York-based Perry, didn’t
immediately return messages yesterday seeking comment on the
lawsuit.  The fight between the hedge fund firms comes as prices for
claims on the con man’s estate have climbed to as much as 68
cents on the dollar, from the low 60s. Traders have “a sense
that things are being resolved” in the long-running case, said
 Joseph Sarachek , managing director of claims trading at CRT
Capital Group LLC, which buys and sells distressed debt,
including that of the Madoff brokerage.  $9 billion Raised  Court challenges had been tying up most of the $9 billion
that trustee Irving Picard has raised to pay claims, mostly
through settlements. Last month, a lawyer said his client, Adele
Fox, wouldn’t continue to challenge the Jeffry Picower estate’s
forfeiture of $5 billion to Madoff’s estate and more than $2
billion to the U.S., and the U.S.  Supreme Court  refused to hear
an appeal over Picard’s payment formula, freeing up a $2.3
billion customer fund.  Richard Perry  founded his hedge fund firm in November 1988,
after previously working at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  A so-called
event-driven manager, he trades stocks and debt of companies
involved in mergers and spinoffs and those emerging from
bankruptcy.  Solus, led by Christopher Pucillo, also specializes in
“event and credit-related” investments and manages
$2.5 billion in assets, the New York-based firm said in a
February statement.  Picard has paid investors about $333 million in the 3 1/2
years since Madoff’s 2008 arrest while charging $273 million for
his firm’s work. Madoff is serving a 150-year prison sentence.  The Solus case is Solus v. Perry Corp., 652341/2012,
Supreme Court of New York (Manhattan.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  