-- Philippine Stocks Climb With Peso as S&P Raises Rating
-- B y   I a n   C .   S a y s o n   a n d   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2012-07-05T08:56:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/philippine-stocks-climb-with-peso-as-s-p-raises-credit-rating.html
Philippine stocks, the peso and
government bonds gained after the nation’s debt rating was
raised to its highest level since 2003 by  Standard & Poor’s .  The  Philippine Stock Exchange Index (PCOMP)  advanced 0.3 percent to
a record close of 5,369.98 in Manila, extending this year’s gain
to 23 percent. The peso climbed 0.4 percent to 41.68 per dollar,
near a four-year high of 41.60. The long-term foreign currency-
denominated debt ranking was increased one level to BB+ from BB,
S&P said in a statement yesterday. That’s one step below
investment grade and on a par with neighboring  Indonesia .  The endorsement will help President  Benigno Aquino  as he
boosts  government spending  to a record this year and seeks $16
billion of investment in roads, bridges and airports to shield
the economy from  Europe ’s debt crisis. Developing nations from
 Brazil  to Indonesia have won upgrades in the past year as
governments reined in budget deficits.  “It’s a confirmation of what the market expected,” said
Rajeev De Mello, the Singapore-based head of Asian fixed-income
assets at Schroder Investment Management Ltd. “It would be
positive for the currency as well as external and domestic
bonds.”  The yield on the  Philippines ’ 4 percent dollar bond due
January 2021 fell five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point,
to 2.77 percent, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The
notes gained for a seventh day. That on the 6.5 percent peso
bonds due April 2021 declined five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 5.13 percent, according to Tradition
Financial Services. The rate was the lowest since March 12.  Following Fitch  S&P’s move comes after Moody’s Investors Service raised its
outlook on the nation’s rating to positive in May, citing
improving debt levels. Moody’s still ranks the $200 billion
economy at the second-highest junk level.  Fitch Ratings  raised
its assessment to one step below investment grade last year.  “We can now clearly make our case for an investment-grade
status,” Finance Secretary Cesar Purisima said yesterday.  The cost of insuring  Philippine (PASHR)  debt against default
dropped four basis points to 150 basis points yesterday, the
seventh decline in a row, according to data provider CMA. The
contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a nation or
company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi Ltd. forecasts the peso will
weaken to 42.00 per dollar in one month, 42.40 in three months
and 42.80 in six months.  Declines Forecast  “At such levels, and in the midst of a slow moving global
economic cycle, we’re reluctant to shift our forecasts of the
peso too strongly,” Leong Sook Mei, Singapore-based regional
head of global currency research at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ
Ltd., wrote in a research note today. “Official rhetoric is
coming in more cautious.”  The peso is up 5.1 percent against the dollar in 2012, the
best performance among  Asia ’s 11 most-used currencies. Central
bank Governor Amando Tetangco said on July 4 that the monetary
authority is “watchful for signs the speculative part is not
overtaking the fundamental flows.”  Aquino plans to narrow the budget shortfall to 2 percent of
gross domestic product by 2013 from a target of 2.6 percent this
year. The government has stepped up efforts to catch tax evaders
and smugglers, and has drawn up bills aimed at increasing
revenue to narrow the fiscal deficit. The $200 billion economy
grew 6.4 percent in the first quarter, the fastest pace since
2010. Aquino is aiming for an expansion of as much as 8 percent
annually to cut poverty.  S&P’s move is “very positive because it promotes the
country’s macroeconomic and fiscal context,” said Fitz Aclan,
who helps manage 850 billion pesos ($20.4 billion) at Manila-
based BDO Unibank Inc. “There could be some upward movement for
our sovereign bonds, even our local bonds. This will also be
positive for equities.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Sayson in  Manila  at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net ;
Lilian Karunungan in  Singapore  at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net ;
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 