-- Philadelphia Fed Gauge Points to Soft Payrolls: Chart of the Day
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2012-07-05T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/philadelphia-fed-gauge-points-to-soft-payrolls-chart-of-the-day.html
Stagnant hiring by manufacturers in
the Philadelphia region is signaling June U.S. payrolls will be
weaker than projected, according to  Jack Ablin .  The CHART OF THE DAY shows the Federal Reserve Bank of
Philadelphia’s employment index plunged to a 23-month low of
minus 1.3 in May from 17.9 the prior month. It registered a
reading of 1.8 in June and averaged 6.7 over the past 12 months.
Readings of zero are the dividing line between expanding and
contracting workforces.  The relationship between the Philadelphia Fed’s measure and
the Labor Department’s jobs count implies payrolls in the U.S.
climbed by 43,000 workers in June, according to an analysis by
Ablin and Jeff Weniger of Harris Private Bank. The median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News calls for a
90,000 increase. The report is due tomorrow at 8:30 a.m. in
Washington.  “It’s showing more disappointment on this continued
downtrend in jobs,” said Ablin, who oversees $60 billion as
chief investment officer at Chicago-based Harris. “This is a
longer and more persistent problem.”  Fed policy makers may be forced to do more to boost
employment growth and shore up the world’s largest economy, even
after expanding their Operation Twist program on June 20 to
extend the maturities of assets on its balance sheet. The
economy added 69,000 jobs in May, the fewest in a year, and the
 unemployment rate  unexpectedly climbed to 8.2 percent from 8.1
percent, its first increase in 11 months.  If confirmed by tomorrow’s report, the Philadelphia Fed’s
measure would prove to be a more useful gauge of the current
labor market than the  Institute for Supply Management ’s national
index. The Tempe, Arizona-based group said this week its factory
index fell to 49.7, worse than the most-pessimistic forecast in
a Bloomberg News survey, from 53.5 in May, the Tempe, Arizona-
based group’s report showed today. Figures less than 50 signal
contraction.  The ISM’s measures of orders, production and export demand
dropped to three-year lows. Its employment gauge has been little
changed over the past two months, hovering near April’s 10-month
high.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kearns in  Washington  at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  