-- Piech Crowns 20-Year VW Turnaround With Porsche Takeover
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2012-07-05T13:23:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/piech-crowns-20-year-vw-turnaround-with-porsche-takeover-cars.html
When  Ferdinand Piech  took charge of
 Volkswagen AG (VOW)  20 years ago, the carmaker was losing almost 1
billion euros ($1.24 billion) with its sales tied to the
fortunes of the European economy.  Yesterday, the 75-year-old VW chairman capped a spurt of
dealmaking with a 4.46-billion euro agreement to buy the rest of
Porsche SE’s automaking business, a transaction that will extend
the German company’s lead as the world’s most profitable
automaker. VW generated a record 11.3 billion euros in operating
profit in 2011.  Piech, whose goal is to surpass  General Motors Co. (GM)  as the
world’s largest automaker, has transformed VW into a global
carmaker of 12 nameplates, ranging from heavy trucks at MAN SE
and  Scania AB (SCVB)  to Audi sedans and Ducati luxury motorcyles. After
an early charge into China orchestrated by the Austrian native,
the Wolfsburg-based company now generates more sales from the
Asian nation than any other market.  Piech is “at the peak of his working career,” said Stefan Bauknecht, a Frankfurt-based  fund manager  for Deutsche Bank AG
investment vehicle DWS. “However, I don’t think he will sit
down now and let everything be. To bring both MAN-Scania and
Porsche under the whole VW umbrella means that the daily work
now has to start.”  Volkswagen shares rose as much as 7 percent in Frankfurt
today in response to the Porsche pact, the structure of which
allowed VW to lower a tax bill of 1 billion euros to about 100
million euros. The stock has advanced 51 percent over the past
five years, compared with a 57 percent decline for  Toyota Motor
Corp. (7203)  and a 70 percent slump in  Renault SA (RNO)  stock. General Motors
Co. during that period went through bankruptcy to restructure.  Chasing GM  After overtaking Toyota as the world’s second-largest
carmaker last year, Piech has his sights set on GM. His plan is
to sell more cars than the Detroit-based company by 2018.  “Porsche and Volkswagen belong together,” Chief Executive
Officer  Martin Winterkorn  said at a press conference today at VW
headquarters in Wolfsburg. “By working with one another we will
raise the company to a new level. We are on the way to being
number one.”  The grandson of  Ferdinand Porsche  and a member of the
sports-car maker’s board, Piech sat on both sides during a
seven-year battle for control between VW and Porsche. He drew
criticism from some VW shareholders for remaining silent about
Porsche’s 2005 strategy to build up a VW stake despite being
aware of the plans weeks before it was publicly announced.  Family Feud  At the time, Piech said that he kept quiet because the VW
share price was rising on the market purchases by the then
unknown buyer and he didn’t want to inflate the shares more by
having information leaks.  Piech backed that strategy, which was being pursued by
then-CEO Wendelin Wiedeking, until the 2008 financial crisis
pushed Porsche to the brink of bankruptcy. He then helped devise
the plan for VW to step in and take control of Porsche instead,
crossing his cousin Wolfgang Porsche, the chairman of the
sports-car maker’s board.  Piech’s career at Volkswagen began in 1972, when he moved
to Audi from Porsche after the family decided to end its active
role in the Stuttgart-based manufacturer’s operations. At Audi,
he pushed the development of the Quattro all-wheel-drive system,
helping establish the brand as an innovator.  The acquisition of Porsche and accelerated integration of
Scania with VW brands brings profitable units into the group,
with first-quarter profit margins of 18 percent and 12 percent,
respectively.  Integration Challenge  VW management now faces the challenge of integrating
 Porsche SE (PAH3) ’s carmaking operations, folding Ducati into its
operations, fashioning a truck alliance with affiliates Scania
and MAN and thwarting  Suzuki Motor Corp. (7269) ’s efforts to force it
to return a 19.9 percent stake after their partnership failed.  “The more brands they acquire, the more hard work there is
to manage them all,” said investor Bauknecht. Deutsche Bank
holds less than 1 percent of Volkswagen stock, according to
Bloomberg data. “You need three to five years to see how it
worked out and then maybe you can say he was quite successful in
bringing all these different brands together.”  VW’s diversification and accumulation of new brands under
Piech counters the strategy at its biggest competitors.  Fiat SpA (F) 
last year spun off its Iveco truck operations into  Fiat
Industrial SpA (FI)  to push its integration with Chrysler Group LLC.
 Ford Motor Co. (F)  unloaded Volvo, Jaguar and  Land Rover  to become
leaner. General Motors Co. shuttered the Hummer, Pontiac and
Saturn brands and sold Saab as part of its bankruptcy
reorganization.  Even Stronger  Europe’s second-biggest carmaker,  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) , is
meanwhile cutting its workforce and selling assets in its Gefco
trucking business as it seeks to cut costs. Chief Executive
Officer Philippe Varin told unions last week the carmaker will
need to raise its 2012 savings target of 1 billion euros ($1.26
billion), according to Franck Don, a CFTC union representative.  While Volkswagen is able to invest in new brands and
products, “Peugeot is in a process of searching for
opportunities to ease and improve the net cash position, or
improve the net debt position by disposing,” said  Marc-Rene Tonn , a Hamburg, Germany-based Warburg Research analyst who
rates VW “buy” and Peugeot “hold”. “This shows that VW is
in a position to become even stronger in the future.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Webb  in Frankfurt at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  