-- Poker Bluff Opens Window to Brain’s Effect on Decisions
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2012-07-05T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/poker-bluff-opens-window-to-brain-s-effect-on-decisions.html
By studying how poker players bluff,
scientists say they’ve uncovered new information on a brain
region that may drive human decision-making in social settings.  Duke University researchers hooked 20 people to scanners
and watched the brain’s reaction as they played a one-card
version of poker against either another person, or a computer.  The study, reported today in the journal  Science , found the
brain’s  temporal parietal junction  was more reactive when the
player faced a human opponent, and that activity in the region
predicted whether the subject would bluff. This suggests that
part of the brain may help coordinate our relationships with
other people, said study author  Scott Huettel .  “When you engage with another person and detect they’re
relevant for your behavior, this is the region that detects
it,” said Huettel, a professor of psychology and neuroscience
at the Durham,  North Carolina , university.  The research used a  variety of poker  simplified down to one
card. The card was either high, and would win if the participant
chose to bet, or low, indicating a loss if the research subject
bet and was called. Participants won money with a high card or
by bluffing with the low card.  Participants in the trial bluffed 54 percent of the time on
average, according to the study, which was funded by the
 National Institutes of Health  in Bethesda,  Maryland .  The 20 subjects had their brains scanned with fMRI, or
functional magnetic resonance imaging, a system used in
hospitals that traces blood flow to produce detailed pictures of
brain activity.  ‘Independent Role’  The findings “identify a unique and independent role” for
the temporal parietal junction “in representing information
predictable of behavioral actions during social interactions,”
according to the study.  The TPJ region was most active when a player faced a person
whose actions could be modeled, and thus relevant for guiding
future decisions, as opposed to a computer’s more random
response, the researchers wrote.  The difference in how the region reacted when the players
faced another person rather than a computer showed a “unique
sensitivity of this region to perceived behavioral relevance of
other agents,” according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 