-- Progress CEO Johnson May Get as Much as $44.7 Million After Exit
-- B y   M a r k   C h e d i a k
-- 2012-07-05T19:44:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/progress-ceo-johnson-may-get-as-much-as-44-7-million-after-exit.html
Progress Energy Inc. Chief Executive
Officer  Bill Johnson , who unexpectedly resigned after  Duke
Energy Corp. (DUK)  completed its takeover of the company, may collect
as much as $44.7 million after his exit.  The total includes $12.7 million for pension benefits and
deferred compensation, $14.3 million for vested stock awards, a
possible $7.4 million payment for taxes and as much as $10.3
million for severance, bonus and lump sum payments, according to
regulatory filings and  Tom Williams , a spokesman for Duke
Energy.  Johnson, who the companies had said would take over as CEO,
will get as much as $10.3 million in severance, bonus and non-
disparagement payments, according to a July 3 filing by Duke
Energy with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Johnson, 58, was already or eventually entitled to some of
the total compensation, Williams said. Johnson will get $12.7
million for his accrued and unpaid benefits under  Progress
Energy ’s retirement and deferred compensation plans, the amounts
of which were disclosed in a Progress proxy filing with the SEC
on June 29.  Johnson, who has been the chairman and CEO of Raleigh,
North Carolina-based Progress since 2007, will receive as much
as $14.3 million in accelerated vesting of his restricted and
performance stock awards, according to regulatory filings.  Johnson may be eligible for a $7.4 million payment for
excise and gross-up taxes although that has yet to be
determined, said Williams.  On July 3, Duke said  James Rogers  will continue as chairman
and chief executive officer of the combined companies. Rogers,
64, had agreed to become executive chairman when the deal was
announced 18 months ago.  The plan for Johnson to take over as president and CEO was
scrapped under a “mutual agreement” between Johnson and Duke,
according to a statement by Duke, which is based in Charlotte,
 North Carolina . The deal created the largest U.S. utility owner.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Chediak in San Francisco at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tina Davis at   tinadavis@bloomberg.net . 