-- Quants Post Worst Month Since October as Winton Falls 3.2%
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o w n   a n d   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2012-07-06T11:40:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/quants-post-worst-month-since-october-as-winton-slumps-3-2-.html
Hedge funds that use quantitative
strategies executed by computers suffered their biggest losses
since October last month after being whipsawed by  Europe ’s
sovereign debt crisis.  The Newedge CTA Index, which tracks some of the largest
systematic funds, lost 3.1 percent in June, erasing this year’s
gains. David Harding’s $10.2 billion Winton Futures Fund Ltd.
slumped 3.2 percent, extending this year’s loss to 4.1 percent,
according to a person familiar with the performance.  Man Group
Plc (EMG) ’s AHL Diversified fund lost 3.4 percent, while the Bluecrest
BlueTrend Fund dropped 5.4 percent in June, an investor said.  Trend followers, which make up the majority of quantitative
funds, have struggled to make money in the last two years as
sentiment lurched from optimism to pessimism in response to
speculation about the outcome of Europe’s debt crisis. Newedge’s
CTA index is little changed this year and slumped in 2011,
contrasting with a 13 percent gain in 2008 as the global
financial crisis gave markets a clear direction.  “Last Friday was a killer for CTAs,” said Gabriel Garcin,
a portfolio manager at Europanel Research and Alternative Asset
Management, a $550 million fund of  hedge funds . “Most trend
followers are on the same side of the trades, so when we get a
risk-on environment, they get hammered hard.”  Euro-Region Optimism  Ed Orlebar, a spokesman for BlueCrest, declined to comment
on the fund’s returns. David Waller, Man Group’s spokesman, also
declined to comment, as did an executive at Winton. The
investors providing returns data on BlueCrest and Winton asked
not to be named because the information is private.  The euro’s four-day decline against the dollar through June
28 was its longest streak last month, and was followed the next
day by the biggest gain since October as euro-area leaders
surprised markets by agreeing to relax conditions on emergency
loans for Spanish banks and possible help for  Italy .  Global stocks and the euro jumped the most this year on
June 29, and oil posted its biggest gain since 2009 on the news,
sending the Newedge index down 1.4 percent, the most since
August. Its trend-following  sub-index  dropped 3.7 percent in
June, capped with a 2.2 percent slide on June 29, the largest
decline since May 2011.  Trend followers employ strategies that aim to take
advantage of momentum in prices, whether rising or falling. They
look for signals that a trend will continue or is about to end,
often using technical indicators, such as moving averages,
Bollinger bands and price envelopes.  Trading Algorithms  Quantitative funds use mathematical algorithms to decide
when to buy and sell, and use computers to respond to price
signals in fractions of seconds. CTA stands for commodity
trading advisor, referring to fund managers who have to register
with the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission, yet managers
carrying that moniker today are mostly systematic traders of
foreign exchange, equities and bonds, as well as raw materials.  “The advantage of these sophisticated systems is that, by
removing the influence of human emotions, all investment
decisions can be effectively back-tested,” Man Group says on
its  website . “This has been particularly prominent in times of
crises, where the strategy has demonstrated its strength to
diversify risk.”  That was the case in 2008 when AHL returned 33 percent,
compared with a 19 percent loss for the Bloomberg global hedge
fund  index . Since then it has lost money, falling 17 percent in
2009 and 5.9 percent last year, interspersed with a 15 percent
gain in 2010. It has fallen 4 percent this year through June.  Crisis Returns  Losses at AHL have contributed to the 75 percent plunge in
Man Group’s shares over the past year, a decline that cost the
world’s largest publicly traded hedge-fund company its place in
the FTSE 100 Index of the U.K.’s biggest firms. It also prompted
analysts to question whether the stock is so cheap that the
company is a takeover target. AHL accounts for almost a third of
Man Group’s $59 billion of assets under management.  Societe Generale analyst Michael Sanderson cut his estimate
on Man Group to hold from buy today, citing “further AHL
weakness” in the second quarter.  BlueTrend (BBTS)  performed even better than AHL in 2008, returning
43 percent in the year that Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. filed
for bankruptcy and the U.S. government rescued American
International Group Inc., formerly the world’s biggest insurer,
and investment bank Bear Stearns & Co. It has yet to post an
annual loss after rising 0.3 percent last year. Winton gained
6.3 percent in 2011 and 14.5 percent in 2010.  Fund Inflows  Even as they struggled to turn a profit in recent years,
CTA funds have attracted new money.  Assets  under management at
systematic funds were steady at $260 billion in the first
quarter of this year after surging 15 percent in 2011 and almost
200 percent since 2005, according to data from Fairfield, Iowa-
based BarclayHedge Ltd.  Winton has been one of the most popular hedge funds among
investors in the past 18 months. The firm now manages $29
billion compared with about $19 billion at the end of 2010. That
means Winton itself accounts for about 12 percent of the $86.9
billion of assets the hedge-fund industry has added since 2010,
according to Chicago-based Hedge Fund Research Inc.  Biggest Firms  The biggest firms have had success raising money in recent
years, in part, because pension funds and endowments have been
making more investments in trend followers, said Alex Allen, a
senior portfolio manager in  London  at Sciens Capital Ltd.  “The attraction of a big CTA is exactly that -- its
size,” said Allen, whose firm invests in hedge funds. “I know
of only a handful of CTA programs that manage more than $1
billion, so if you are an institutional investor and have $20
million to $30 million to allocate and you can’t be more than 10
percent of a program’s assets, you have to invest in a program
that has more than $300 million.”  While trend followers experienced a poor month in June, it
would have been much worse if they hadn’t pulled back from more
aggressive positions, according to James Skeggs, head of
research at Newedge Group in London, whose automated trend model
was 9.2 percent lower last month.  “Where markets are becoming more volatile or more
correlated they will have smaller position sizes, typically, as
a way of reducing risk,” Skeggs said.  Markets were roiled in June by concern that the euro-region
debt crisis will stunt the economy, with  commodities  entering a
 bear market  on June 21, only to rally on speculation central
banks would act to stimulate growth.  Current choppy market conditions, should they endure, may
prove better for CTAs than for so-called discretionary funds,
Garcin said.  “It’s an awful environment for CTAs at the moment, but
also for discretionary managers,” said Garcin. “The edge you
have with this type of algorithmic trading systems is that they
don’t get tired. They keep cool and can take the same amount of
risk no matter how much draw down they’ve had.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Matthew Brown  in London at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  