-- Radwanska Is First Polish Woman in Wimbledon Final Since 1937
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2012-07-05T14:58:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/radwanska-is-first-polish-woman-in-wimbledon-final-since-1937.html
Agnieszka Radwanska beat Angelique
Kerber 6-3, 6-4 to become the first Polish woman to reach the
Wimbledon tennis final since 1937.  Radwanska, who recovered from a break down in the first
set, jumped up and down when she clinched victory as her German
opponent hit a shot wide on Centre Court.  Radwanska, the third seed, will play the winner of the
other semifinal between four-time champion  Serena Williams  and
 Victoria Azarenka .  “This has been a dream since I was a kid,” Radwanska, 23,
said in a televised interview. “We both were a bit nervous in
the beginning. After a couple of games, I relaxed a little
bit.”  The last Polish woman to reach the Wimbledon final was
Jadwiga Jedrzejowska, who lost to the U.K.’s Dorothy Round 75
years ago when female players of the era played in long white
dresses.  With some Centre Court seats empty at lunchtime, No. 8 seed
Kerber broke Radwanska’s serve to lead the first set 2-1 as the
Pole skewed a drop shot wide. Radwanska steadied her nerves,
went on the offensive and rallied with a break of serve to make
it 3-3 when Kerber hit into the net.  The Pole, a former  Wimbledon junior champion , broke again
to make it 5-3 on a mistake by Kerber and took the first set
with an ace.  Unforced Errors  After the first four games of the second set went with
serve, Radwanska broke when Kerber hit into the net. Kerber had
14 unforced errors in all, to the Pole’s six.  Kerber, a U.S. Open semifinalist last year, clenched her
fist after winning a 16-shot tally on Radwanska’s serve. She
failed to take advantage of two break points.  She was trying to become the first German woman to reach a
Grand Slam final since  Steffi Graf  in 1999.  Radwanska, who turned professional in 2005, closed out the
match in 1 hour, 10 minutes. She made 78 percent of her first
serves -- to Kerber’s 56 percent -- and converted all three of
her break points.  “I played really good today, I’m very happy,” Radwanska
said. “This is the best two weeks of my career.”  Kerber said she’d met Graf for the first time yesterday and
the seven-time Wimbledon champion had told her to enjoy the
semifinal and not worry about the result.  Kerber found it “really tough” to be consistent and hit
winners, she said.  “I was maybe one, two steps slower today,” she told a
news conference. “That makes the difference.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff in  Madrid   at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  