-- Railroads Appeal Class Certification in Price-Fixing Suit
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-07-05T21:57:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/railroads-appeal-class-certification-in-price-fixing-suit.html
Four U.S. railroad companies appealed
a ruling that turned a price-fixing lawsuit against them into a
class action of as many as 30,000 shippers, arguing it could
unfairly push them into settlements.  Union Pacific Corp. (UNP) , the largest U.S. carrier,  CSX Corp. (CSX) ;
the third largest,  Norfolk Southern Corp. (NSC) ; and Burlington
Northern Santa Fe, a unit of Warren Buffett’s  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. (BRK/A) , today asked the U.S. Court of Appeals in Washington to
reverse the June 21 ruling, saying it exposes the companies to
$10 billion or more in potential damages.  “Such massive potential exposures create ‘hydraulic’ and
‘unwarranted pressure’ to settle non-meritorious claims,”
 Carter Phillips , a lawyer for the railroads, said in the 32-page
filing.  The lawsuit, brought in 2007 by Olin Corp. and seven other
companies that ship goods by rail, alleges the railroad
companies colluded at an industry meeting in 2003 to impose a
surcharge tied to overall transportation costs rather than to
actual fuel prices over a 3-1/2-year period.  More than two dozen customers have filed lawsuits, which
were consolidated before U.S. District Judge Paul Friedman in
Washington. Archer Daniels Midland Co., the world’s largest
grain processor, filed a separate complaint on March 26, 2008.  Price Index  Lawyers for the railroad companies have argued the case
should be thrown out for lack of evidence that the railroads
broke any laws in creating a  price index  to pass on surging fuel
costs to customers.  Union Pacific, based in Omaha, Nebraska, and the other
railroads deny they colluded on fuel surcharges.  Today’s filing asks the appellate court to consider the
class certification challenge before a trial is held.  The companies “have very strong defenses to plaintiffs’
claims, based on the absence of evidence of any actionable
conspiracy and railroad-specific evidentiary protections,”
Phillips of Sidley Austin LLP in Washington, said in the filing.  He said waiting to review the class certification until
after a trial “may mean that this crucial ruling entirely
evades appellate review.”  The case is In re: Rail Freight Fuel Surcharge Antitrust
Litigation, 12-08008,  U.S. Court of Appeals ,  District of
Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 