-- RBS Markets Mansions to Salvage $47 Billion of Loans
-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 2012-07-06T15:49:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/rbs-markets-mansions-to-salvage-47-billion-of-loans-mortgages.html
Less than a mile from  Buckingham
Palace  in  London , among a row of 19th century luxury homes,
 Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  is seeking to recover some of
the 30 billion pounds ($47 billion) of commercial property loans
it got stuck with when borrowers defaulted.  RBS, Britain’s largest publicly held lender following its
2008 bailout, is midway through selling 15 residences on
Grosvenor Crescent, three years after seizing the properties
from an insolvent developer and taking on the unfinished
project. RBS, which is offering one apartment for 45 million
pounds, is confident it can recover 140 million pounds.  “We are certainly looking to get all our money back,”
said Aubrey Adams, head of property in the bank’s global
restructuring group, which handles RBS’s defaulted loans.  The group is central to RBS Chief Executive Officer  Stephen Hester ’s plan to scale back lending and bolster the Edinburgh-
based bank’s balance sheet before the government sells its 82
percent stake. While RBS is benefiting from rising demand for
London’s most expensive properties, success may hinge on no
significant further deterioration in the U.K. and Irish
commercial real estate markets, which make up the bulk of the
distressed debt.  The values of offices, stores and other commercial
buildings in the U.K. have stagnated during the past two years,
according to a monthly benchmark  index  compiled by London-based
Investment Property Databank Ltd. This has limited investor
gains to rental income, with U.K. commercial real estate
returning 5.4 percent in the 12 months ended May, according to
IPD’s total return index, which investors can bet on with
derivatives.  Lloyds Comparison  RBS cut its “non-core” loans to 83 billion pounds in the
first quarter from 258 billion pounds at the end of 2008. Loans
secured by commercial property make up 44 percent of lending
identified by the bank as peripheral to its lending plans and
form the majority of cases handled by the restructuring group.  Non-core assets represent 9 percent of the balance sheet
that RBS has to fund, compared with 21 percent in 2008,
according to research firm Liberum Capital Ltd. In comparison,
 Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  has cut its peripheral loan book to 22
percent from 43 percent over the same period, said Cormac Leech,
a Liberum analyst. The firm has a hold rating on RBS shares.  “RBS has shrunk its balance sheet more quickly than
Lloyds,” he said. This has been overshadowed by weak earnings,
in part because of non-core loans and the risk of being caught
up in  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis through its 39 billion
pounds of Irish assets, he said.  RBS  shares  fell 2.9 percent to 201.3 pence at 4:30 p.m. in
London. They’re little changed this year after falling 48
percent in 2011.  Hotel Default  Adams, 62, retired as CEO of broker  Savills Plc (SVS)  in 2008. He
joined RBS in November to oversee the defaulted commercial
loans. Adams isn’t involved with RBS’s 143.2 billion-pound
residential mortgage-loan book.  Most of the real estate backing debt managed by Adams’s
group is in Ireland, the U.K. and  Germany . RBS is seeking a
buyer for 42 U.K. hotels managed by Marriott International Inc.
to recover 700 million pounds after the borrowers defaulted a
year ago.  Grosvenor Crescent is an example of the role of West
Register, a unit of the global restructuring group that takes
over or buys properties in foreclosure, then makes investments
to facilitate sales.  Foreclosed Properties  West Register manages about 5 billion pounds of assets and
seeks to ensure the bank gets a fair price for foreclosed
properties in the recovery process, Adams said. The unit wins
about 40 percent of the property bids it makes, allowing the
bank to convert a liability into an asset, which is a “more
capital efficient way” of managing distressed loans, he said.  Investors, particularly private-equity firms, have
inundated RBS with bids for assets, Adams said. The bank has
been reluctant to sell to them because offers are often so low
that it would spark further writedowns and losses, he said.  RBS has booked 48.2 billion pounds of shortfalls and
writedowns since the third quarter of 2007 after losses on
commercial and residential loans surged, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. It needed the world’s biggest bank
bailout after U.K. taxpayers provided 45.5 billion pounds in
2008 and 2009. RBS said on May 4 it was poised to repay loans
received in its rescue, removing an obstacle to its return to
private ownership.  Grosvenor Crescent  The lender took over Grosvenor Crescent, a row of white
stucco-fronted townhouses built in the early 19th century, when
owner Zegna III was placed into administration in July 2009 with
work partially completed.  It hired Grosvenor Group Ltd., owner of the freehold to the
land, in April 2010 to manage the project to convert the
buildings -- formerly used as the London headquarters of the  Red
Cross  -- back to residential use. Neither disclosed their
profit-sharing arrangement.  Prices of the apartments and  houses  start from 9 million
pounds. The most expensive, at 45 million pounds, is an 11,000
square-foot home with five bedrooms, an indoor pool and staff
accommodation.  The Belgravia location appeals to international investors
seeking a haven for their wealth or a base in the British
capital, said Stuart Bailey, head of Knight Frank LLP’s office
in the area, who is handling the sale. Buyers have been a
“cross section of the globally wealthy,” he said.  International Buyers  Savills, the other sale agent, estimates that 49 percent of
prime residential purchases in London by value during the past
18 months have been by international buyers, compared with 37
percent in 2007.  Adams said Grosvenor Crescent is one of a few prime
residential developments in central London owned by West
Register. It’s also assembling a portfolio of 1,400 newly built
rental homes across the U.K. valued at more than 200 million
pounds.  It’s acquiring more properties in foreclosure sales by
RBS’s business recovery unit as residential landlords default,
seeking to sell them as a single portfolio to a pension fund or
life insurance company, he said.  Adams said his biggest problem is in Ireland, reflecting
the “realization that there’s a hard core that almost cannot be
sold currently.”  Ulster Bank , RBS’s main Irish lending arm, is saddled with
loans secured by real estate valued at a fraction of what it was
when the lender advanced money to borrowers.  Property values 
have fallen by about 65 percent since the third quarter of 2007,
when the financial crisis burst Ireland’s investment bubble,
Investment Property Databank said in January.  Ulster Bank  By the end of March, Dublin-based Ulster Bank had set aside
6.42 billion pounds to cover 39 percent of the value of its
loans secured by development land, shops and offices. The scale
of Ireland’s problems leaves RBS’s global restructuring group
with a more difficult task of shrinking a  balance sheet  through
peripheral asset and loan sales.  While some land backing Ulster Bank loans may have initial
planning consent, it’s unlikely some sites will ever be
developed because they’re economically unviable or not suitable
for projects, he said.  The slide in Irish real estate has attracted bargain-
seeking investors and enabled RBS to start recovering money by
selling foreclosed properties or by assembling portfolios of
buildings.  Last month, the  Alliance Building , a 210-unit apartment
complex in Dublin backing a loan from Ulster Bank, was acquired
by  Kennedy-Wilson Holdings Inc. (KW)  and Fairfax Financial for 40
million euros.  While RBS aims to eliminate its non-core loan book by the
end of 2013, Adams said some of the debt is so underwater the
deadline may be missed.  “As we get further and further into the portfolio there
will be a rump that’s harder and harder to sell and that’s an
issue,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Packard in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  