-- Treasuries Little Changed as Central Banks Act to Growth
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-07-05T21:23:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/treasuries-rise-before-u-s-employment-data.html
Treasuries gained as European Central
Bank President  Mario Draghi  said economic risks remain after
policy makers in the region cut  interest rates  to a record low,
underscoring the refuge appeal of  U.S. government debt .  Longer-maturity securities led the gains as the ECB joined
the People’s Bank of  China  and the  Bank of England  in increasing
stimulus during a 45-minute span to bolster a faltering world
economy. A report tomorrow is forecast to show the U.S. added
fewer than 100,000 jobs for a third month.  “The central-bank actions were certainly reason enough”
for Treasuries to gain, said James Collins, an interest-rate
strategist in the futures group in  Chicago  at Citigroup Inc.’s
Global Markets unit, one of 21 primary dealers that trade with
the Fed. “We continue to get economic news that’s a little bit
underwhelming.”  The 10-year  yield  fell three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 1.60 percent at 5 p.m. in  New York ,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The record low of
1.44 percent was set June 1.  Thirty-year  bond yields  declined two basis points to 2.72
percent. Trading of Treasuries resumed today after being  shut 
worldwide yesterday for the U.S. July 4 holiday.  The  Federal Reserve  purchased $4.714 billion of U.S.
government securities as part of its effort to reduce long-term
interest rates.  The Treasury said that it will sell $66 billion of longer-
term debt next week, including $32 billion of three-year notes
on July 10, $21 billion of 10-year securities July 11 and $13
billion of 30-year bonds July 12.  Market ‘Pessimism’  “There’s still a great deal of pessimism about the
strength of any recovery,” said Aaron Kohli, an interest-rate
strategist in New York at BNP Paribas SA, a primary dealer.
“People still believe the malaise in the global economy is much
greater than most policy makers realize.”  Applications for  jobless benefits  decreased by 14,000 in
the week ended June 30 to 374,000, the fewest since mid May,
Labor Department figures showed today. Economists forecast
385,000 claims, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg
News survey.  The  U.S. economy  added 100,000 jobs in June, according to
the median forecast of 84 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.
The  unemployment rate  will remain at 8.2 percent, the median
projection in a separate survey of 80 economists shows.  Central Banks  A private payrolls report showed companies added more
workers than forecast in June. U.S. businesses added 176,000
positions last month, up from a revised 136,000 in May, higher
than initially estimated, according to figures from Roseland,
New Jersey-based ADP Employer Services. The median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a 100,000 advance.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s index of U.S.  non-
manufacturing  businesses, which covers about 90 percent of the
economy, fell to 52.1 in June from the prior month’s 53.7, the
Tempe, Arizona-based group said today. The median forecast of 70
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News projected 53. Readings
above 50 signal expansion.  The ECB and China’s central bank cut their benchmark
borrowing costs, while the BOE raised the size of its asset-
purchase program. The central banks acted two weeks after the
Fed expanded a program lengthening the maturity of bonds it
holds and Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  indicated more measures will
be taken if needed.  ‘Quite Bearish’  “We’ve seen a bounce off comments from Draghi -- he’s
reiterating what we all know, but he sounds quite bearish,”
said Jason Rogan, director of U.S. government trading at
Guggenheim Partners LLC, a New York-based brokerage for
institutional investors. “It’s his comments saying the risks to
the economic outlook are still on the downside. It’s nothing
new, but it’s a reason for us to bounce.”  Treasuries yields are at levels making them near the most
overpriced ever, according to a model created by Federal Reserve
economists know as the  term premium . The gauge was negative 0.91
today after falling to a record negative 0.94 on June 1. A
negative reading indicates investors are willing to accept
yields below what is considered fair value.  Treasury trading volume reported today by ICAP Plc, the
largest inter-dealer broker of U.S. government debt, was $203.3
billion. Trading averaged $178.8 billion on July 2 and 3 before
the July 4 holiday in the U.S., compared with a $246 billion
average for the prior six months.  The gains in Treasuries are “a manifestation of the risk-
off trade, but I wouldn’t read too much into it on a low-volume
day,” said  Jay Mueller , who manages about $3 billion of bonds
at Wells Capital Management in  Milwaukee .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  