-- Regulator Approves Merger of Japan’s Biggest Bourses
-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a   a n d   T o s h i r o   H a s e g a w a
-- 2012-07-05T02:37:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/regulator-approves-merger-of-japan-s-biggest-bourses.html
Japanese regulators approved a merger
between the nation’s two biggest stock exchanges, paving the way
for the first tie-up of major bourses after $32 billion of
global deals failed since last February.  The merger is not expected to substantially restrain
competition, Japan Fair Trade Commission said in a  statement 
today.  Tokyo  Stock Exchange Group Inc. will proceed with its
480,000 yen-per-share takeover of  Osaka  Securities Exchange Co.,
aimed at completing the tie-up on Jan. 1, the bourses said.  “Considering the international competition in the
industry, it was appropriate for the regulator to approve
this,” said Sadakazu Osaki, head of research at Nomura Research
Institute Ltd. in Tokyo.  The deal was cleared six months after the regulator began
its review on Jan. 4. The commission last year streamlined rules
to increase transparency, speed decision-making, and clarify
merger and acquisition guidelines. It emphasized that a
geographical market can be defined as worldwide or regional, not
just Japanese, in judging whether a company would have a
monopoly.  TSE’s bid, which values the Osaka bourse at 129.6 billion
yen ($1.6 billion), would create the world’s third-largest
exchange based on turnover, according to data compiled by
Deutsche Bank AG.  Failed Deals  Global regulators scuttled $32 billion in exchange
takeovers since  Singapore Exchange Ltd. (SGX)  made a bid for  ASX Ltd. (ASX) 
in October 2010 amid calls from the Australian public to
maintain domestic control of  stock trading , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd. (388) ,
Asia’s largest bourse by market value, last month announced a
$2.2 billion bid for the London Metal Exchange and is waiting on
LME shareholders and U.K. regulators for approval.  Osaka Securities rose 0.7 percent to 457,500 yen at the
11:30 a.m. trading break on Osaka’s Jasdaq market today. The
 Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  fell 0.1 percent.  The bourses will hold shareholder meetings this fall or
near the end of the year to vote on the merger, OSE President
 Michio Yoneda  told reporters on May 28 in Osaka. The Tokyo
bourse, home to Sony Corp. and Toyota Motor Corp., will buy 50
percent to 66.67 percent of Osaka’s outstanding stock.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in  Hong Kong  at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net ;
Toshiro Hasegawa in Tokyo at 
 thasegawa6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 