-- Rihanna Rocks the Park, Hirst Birds: London Weekend
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2012-07-05T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/rihanna-rocks-the-park-hirst-birds-stasi-mole-london-weekend.html
Rihanna brings her raunchy R&B, Drake
his clean-cut rap and  Deadmau5  his illuminated mouse ears to
 London  for the three-day Wireless Festival.  Hyde Park’s summer season gets into top gear tonight with
the pulsating dance beats from Deadmau5, the producer known for
his dazzling light shows. The weekend roster also includes
Santigold, Jessie J and Calvin Harris.  Information:  http://www.wirelessfestival.co.uk .  Roti Chai, an Indian kitchen serving street food, is a
short walk from the Wireless Festival. Dishes are first class
and service friendly. Best of all for festival times, Roti Chai
is hidden away on a back street and unlikely to draw crowds.
(There’s a restaurant in the basement if you want a full meal.)
Information:  http://www.rotichai.co.uk/  or +44-20-7408-0101.  Saturday  It’s your last chance to see Damien Hirst’s new work. It’ll
remind you somewhat of his old work.  The 47-year-old artist -- whose blockbuster show at Tate
Modern is replete with studio-produced art -- has painted with
his own hand, for once. Three dozen canvases hang in  White
Cube ’s sprawling new space near  London Bridge .  Parrots are the new leitmotiv. Yet the old leitmotivs are
never very far: Butterflies and shark jawbones pop up
everywhere, dispelling any doubts about their creator. Like
logos, they scream out the name of the man who made them.  The show, worth seeing to find out what Hirst is up to now,
ends Sunday at White Cube, 144-152 Bermondsey Street, London SE1
3TQ. Information:  http://www.whitecube.com  or +44-207-930-5373.  Bermondsey Street, home of White Cube, is a destination for
food lovers, drawn by venues such as Jose. One unmissable place
is Zucca, a low-key and inexpensive restaurant serving fine
Italian food. It also has one of London’s best Italian wine
lists. Booking essential. Information:
 http://www.zuccalondon.com/  or +44-20-7378-6809.  Saturday Night  One of  Angela Merkel ’s predecessors had an East German mole
in his inner circle.  The double agent that West German Chancellor Willy Brandt
unwittingly employed in the 1970s is portrayed in “Democracy,”
(now in an Old Vic restaging). At first, Guenther Guillaume
looks to Brandt “like the manager of a pornographic bookshop.”
The Stasi spy soon makes himself indispensable, dropping his
family to serve Brandt’s interests -- and his spymaster’s.  It’s a long time since there were two Germanies, and Cold
War discussions by an all-male, gray-suited cast can be taxing.
Yet writer Michael Frayn and director  Paul Miller  make the play
feel current: an ageless parable about politics, and a
reflection on how betrayal is not always all that clear cut.  At the Old Vic Theatre, The Cut, London SE1 8NB.
Information:  http://www.oldvictheatre.com  or +44-844-871-7628.  Sunday  The City of London Festival brings its yearly burst of
creativity to the capital’s financial heartland.  On Sunday, Tower Bridge and the Monument to the Great Fire
of London will ring out with tailor-made compositions by Samuel
Bordoli. At Monument, musicians will perform in the alcoves of
the spiral staircase, and at Tower Bridge, they will play all
along the high-level west walkway.  There are plenty of other musical highlights between now
and the festival’s July 27 end. See  http://www.colf.org  for more
information.  To contact the writer of this story:
Farah Nayeri in London  at
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 