-- Roberts Faces Shot at Republican Redemption in Race Cases
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2012-07-05T04:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/roberts-faces-shot-at-republican-redemption-in-race-cases.html
Chief Justice  John Roberts , whose
deciding vote upheld President  Barack Obama ’s health-care law,
won’t have to wait long for a chance to reassert his
conservative credentials.  In the nine-month term that starts in October, the U.S.
 Supreme Court  will consider rolling back university affirmative
action and may take up same-sex marriage and the Voting Rights
Act, the 1965 law that protects minorities at the polling place.  On the race issues in particular, Roberts is a good bet to
rejoin the wing of the court that has been his ideological home
since he became chief justice in 2005. He has taken a leading
role on such questions, pushing for a color-blind Constitution.  “With respect to race, I don’t think Chief Justice Roberts
will have the same hesitation to advance a conservative
agenda,” said Kermit Roosevelt, a constitutional law professor
at the University of Pennsylvania Law School in Philadelphia.  Opponents of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act
criticized Roberts for joining with the court’s four Democratic
appointees to uphold the health-care law. Roberts, 57, was
accused of “arrogance” by columnist Michael Gerson and
“judicial betrayal” by economist Thomas Sowell. The Wall
Street Journal said in an editorial that the chief justice
“behaved like a politician.”  Outside Pressure  The criticism escalated after  CBS News , citing two unnamed
people, said Roberts originally voted to strike down the part of
the law that requires Americans to get insurance -- an idea once
championed by the  Heritage Foundation  and leading Republicans --
then  switched  sides during the court’s internal deliberations.  That led to speculation among some Republicans that the
chief justice had buckled under pressure from supporters of the
law, which is intended to expand coverage to at least 30 million
uninsured Americans.  Some commentators, including Charles Krauthammer and  George Will , praised Roberts for parts of his opinion that may limit
Congress’ power in the future.  Even so, the ruling has left some legal conservatives
questioning Roberts’ reliability on other issues. The decision
came three days after he joined a 5-3 majority to strike down
most of an  Arizona  law designed to crack down on illegal
immigrants.  “If the political winds pick up to a certain high-storm
level, his views on the law or on the constitutionality seem to
get second billing,” said  John Eastman , a constitutional law
professor at Chapman University School of Law in Orange,
 California . After health care, “it’s hard to predict where he
comes down on any given case.”  Steady on Race  Roberts, who is in Malta on a two-week teaching trip,
didn’t respond to a request for comment.  The justices also will consider shielding multinational
companies, including  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , from lawsuits
accusing them of complicity in human-rights abuses. They’ll
determine whether the Alien Tort Statute, a 223-year-old law,
can be invoked for wrongdoing that occurs beyond U.S. borders.  Nowhere has Roberts been steadier than on issues of race.
He has consistently allied with other Republican-appointed
members -- Justices Antonin Scalia,  Clarence Thomas  and  Samuel Alito  -- leaving Justice  Anthony Kennedy , another Republican
appointee, to determine how far the nine-member court will go in
curbing racial preferences by the government.  ‘Stop Discriminating’  In the affirmative action case, the court may scale back,
or even overturn, past rulings that say universities can
consider the race of their applicants to help ensure campus
diversity. The justices are considering an appeal from Abigail
Noel Fisher, a white student who was rejected when she applied
to the University of Texas’ flagship Austin campus.  For Roberts, the decision may be straightforward. In a 2007
case involving school integration at the kindergarten-to-grade-
12 level, he made clear he had no use for racial preferences in
education.  “The way to stop discrimination on the basis of race is to
stop discriminating on the basis of race,” he wrote.  On the Voting Rights Act, Roberts has suggested he would
invalidate the provision that makes some states get federal
clearance before changing their voting rules. In 2009, he
pointed to “serious constitutional questions” about the
preclearance requirement, one of the central provisions in the
landmark civil rights law.  The court in that case stopped short of invalidating the
law, instead striking a compromise that let more jurisdictions
change their election procedures without federal approval.  Foreshadowing Result  The issue is now back at the court’s doorstep. A federal
appeals court upheld the law in May, rejecting a challenge by
Shelby County,  Alabama . The Supreme Court may say in late
September or early October whether it will take up Shelby
County’s appeal.  “I expect the Voting Rights Act to go down,” said
Roosevelt, who served as a law clerk to now-retired Justice
David Souter. “The court has foreshadowed that result, and
Roberts seems to want it.”  The court probably will have its choice of cases concerning
gay marriage.  House Republicans  led by Speaker  John Boehner  last
month asked the justices to uphold the Defense of Marriage Act,
the 1996 federal law that defines marriage as being between a
man and a woman. The Obama administration is also asking the
court to intervene, arguing that the law is unconstitutional.  A federal appeals court in May ruled the measure violated
the constitutional guarantee of equal protection. The law, known
as DOMA, bars legally married same-sex couples from claiming
federal benefits, including the right to file joint tax returns
and collect Social Security survivor benefits.  Swing Vote  The Supreme Court also will have a chance to review
California’s Proposition 8, which bars same-sex marriage. A
federal appeals court struck down the measure.  As with the race cases, past rulings suggest that Kennedy
will serve as the court’s swing vote on marriage. Should Kennedy
back same-sex nuptials, Roberts would be left to decide whether
to take the same position, and potentially write the court’s
opinion, or to dissent.  What Roberts does in that and future cases may depend on
the lessons he takes from the health-care ruling and his
reaction to becoming a pariah among people who were once his
supporters.  Blackmun Defiant  Almost 40 years ago, another Republican appointee, Justice
Harry Blackmun, found himself in a similar position after
writing the landmark Roe v. Wade abortion rights decision -- and
receiving hate mail and death threats. The criticism only
solidified Blackmun’s views, and he became one of the court’s
most liberal members, eventually calling for the abolition of
the death penalty.  How Roberts will react is “ultimately unknowable,” said
Michael Dorf, a constitutional law professor at Cornell Law
School in Ithaca,  New York .  “It’s going to be very hard to predict whether this
experience makes him want to prove that he’s really still a
conservative, or whether it makes him feel liberated or angry at
his fellow conservatives,” Dorf said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in  Washington  at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net . 