-- Romanian Power Struggle Peaks as President Faces Suspension
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2012-07-06T12:41:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/romanian-power-struggle-peaks-as-premier-moves-to-oust-president.html
Romanian Prime Minister Victor Ponta’s ruling coalition is set to take the first step toward
ousting President Traian Basescu as the jockeying for power
between the country’s rival political camps intensifies.  Lawmakers will vote today on a motion to suspend Basescu,
which would lead to a referendum on his removal within 30 days.
Parliament is controlled by Ponta’s Social Liberal Union, or
USL, which says Basescu overstepped his duties when announcing
budget cuts in 2010 and making other economic decisions since.  Ponta, riding public anger over austerity measures, is
looking for the decisive blow against Basescu two months after
becoming the third premier this year in the country preparing
for parliamentary elections in November or December. The
impeachment attempt is fueling political turmoil, which pushed
the leu to a record low today.  “The notoriously turbulent Romanian politics tend to be
ignored as background noise, but this time, the power grab by
the ruling USL is serious enough to provide for a more lasting
weakness” in the leu,  Mateusz Szczurek ,  ING Groep NV (INGA) ’s chief
economist for central and eastern  Europe , wrote in a note to
clients yesterday.  The leu has weakened 1.9 percent against the euro this
week, the world’s second-worst performance behind the Sudanese
pound. It sank to a record-low 4.5365 against Europe’s common
currency today and traded at 4.5358 at 3:20 p.m. in Bucharest,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  ‘Many Reasons’  The ruling coalition  needs  217 votes to suspend Basescu and
will seek support from outside its caucus of 212 lawmakers.
There are “many reasons” to suspend Basescu, Hunor Kelemen,
who heads the Democratic Union of Hungarians that commands 27
votes, told reporters on July 4.  The two sides, which trace their origins to the National
Salvation Front that ruled the country after the collapse of
communism in 1989, have been jostling over budget measures and
control of the judiciary.  Ponta’s coalition was emboldened by its victory in June 10
local elections, when it garnered almost 50 percent of the vote
against almost 16 percent for Basescu’s Democrat-Liberal party.
The ruling alliance would get 60 percent in a parliamentary vote
to 14.5 percent for the Democrat-Liberals, according to a May
9-15 survey of 1,038 Romanians by the polling company IMAS. The
results have a margin of error of 3 percentage points.  Suicide Attempt  The struggle worsened on June 19 after Ponta blamed Basescu
for spreading accusations that he plagiarized his doctoral
thesis. Two days later, Ponta’s mentor and former Prime Minister
Adrian Nastase was sentenced to two-years in prison in a
corruption case. A subsequent suicide attempt by Nastase
prompted Ponta to say “I hope Basescu is happy now.”  The two leaders also argued over who should represent
 Romania  at a meeting of European Union leaders and expanded
their dispute to the  Constitutional Court .  The European Commission said today in a statement that the
recent developments in Romania “may be putting at risk the
progress done by the country in the past years under a
Cooperation and Verification Mechanism,” for a judicial
overhaul and the fight against corruption.  The Cabinet is determined to meet all the pledges under the
country’s precautionary agreement with the  International
Monetary Fund  and the EU, Ponta said today.  “The concerns of our European and international partners
are legitimate but we want to assure them that the government
will secure the country’s stability,” Ponta said in a speech
from Romania’s government palace in Bucharest. “The political
conflict won’t affect the state institutions as the government
will respect all the decisions of the Constitutional Court and
the rule of law.”  Political Maneuvering  Today’s vote is the culmination of maneuvering by the
 Social Democrats  and Liberals to strengthen their power after
spending the past three years in opposition.  They have pushed through several changes to ease the
impeachment procedure and on July 4 limited the powers of the
Constitutional Court by decree to prevent it from impeding a
suspension procedure. The coalition changed the heads of the two
chambers of parliament, who are the next in line in case the
president is removed. The Democrat-Liberal Party challenged the
changes at the Constitutional Court.  One of the nine justices on the court was threatened before
the panel started debating the legality of a parliamentary
motion to suspend Basescu, the court said today. The judges sent
an advisory notice to Parliament, allowing lawmakers to continue
the suspension debate.  ‘Being Honest’  The government yesterday approved a change in the law
governing referenda, making a balloting for impeachment valid
with a majority of participants, rather than with more than 50
percent of eligible voters.  Basescu said he accepts lawmakers’ right to suspend him and
urged them to respect the law and the procedures.  “In times of crisis I wanted for the government and the
parliamentary majority to know that I’m their partner,” Basescu
told lawmakers yesterday, adding that the suspension isn’t based
on facts. “It was my obligation to inform the citizens about
the situation of the country’s finances and the referendum might
prove me right in being honest with the people.”  Basescu’s Democrat-Liberal party cut state wages by 25
percent and raised taxes to narrow a  budget deficit  and meet
pledges to the IMF and the EU. Former Prime Minister Emil Boc
stepped down Feb. 6 to ease political and social pressure
stemming from nationwide anti-austerity protests.  His successor, Mihai-Razvan Ungureanu, lost an April 27 no-
confidence vote in parliament as the Social Democrats and
Liberals gathered 235 votes to topple his government.  EU Mission  Starting at the end of this month, a joint mission of the
IMF, the EU and the  World Bank  will review the country’s
progress under the 5 billion-euro ($6.2 billion) precautionary
accord secured last year as a safeguard against the European
sovereign-debt crisis.  The cost of insuring against a Romanian default for five
years using credit-default swaps rose to 420 basis points from
407 basis points yesterday, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “What makes me uncomfortable with the whole situation in
Romania now is the fact that this process can take a long
time,”  Luis Costa , an emerging-market strategist at  Citigroup
Inc. (C)  said yesterday. “Funding costs are rising, and under the
current scenario the central bank will probably have limited
power to flood the market with liquidity given fears of
potential leu weakness.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net ;
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  