-- Romney Calls Health-Care Mandate Tax Rather Than Penalty
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2012-07-05T16:20:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/romney-calls-health-care-mandate-tax-rather-than-penalty.html
Republican  Mitt Romney  said that
requiring Americans to obtain health insurance is a tax,
breaking with previous descriptions of President  Barack Obama ’s
mandate by his campaign and aligning with his party’s message.  “The fact that the majority of the court said it’s a tax
and, therefore, it is a tax,” Romney said in an interview aired
by  CBS News  today. “You can try and say you wish they had
decided a different way, but they didn’t.”  Romney’s comments marked a shift for his campaign, sparking
criticism that he had changed his views for political gain.
Senior campaign adviser  Eric Fehrnstrom  said on July 2 that
Romney didn’t view the mandate as a tax, contradicting the
message of Republican congressional leaders on the issue.  The U.S.  Supreme Court  ruled last week that the federal
requirement to obtain health insurance or pay a fee -- included
in the 2010 Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act pushed by
Obama -- is constitutional because it can be considered a tax.
Party officials and leaders in Congress jumped on the June 28
decision to mount a fresh attack on Obama, charging the
president with imposing a new tax on middle-class Americans.  Romney and Mandate  A similar requirement to buy insurance was part of a state
health-care law Romney enacted as governor of  Massachusetts .  However, Romney insisted in the CBS interview that the
Supreme Court’s ruling didn’t mean he had raised taxes as
governor. He said the opinion written by Chief Justice  John Roberts  said that states have the power to constitutionally
mandate purchases using government mechanisms other than taxes.  “States have the power to put in place mandates,” Romney
said. “They don’t need to require them to be called taxes in
order for them to be constitutional,” he said. “As a result,
Massachusetts’ mandate was a mandate, was a penalty, was
described that way by the legislature and by me.”  The change in position within the campaign illustrates the
political challenge Romney faces on health care.  Fehrnstrom, in an interview on  MSNBC ’s “Daily Rundown,”
had said:  “The governor disagreed with the ruling of the
court. He agreed with the dissent written by Justice Scalia
which very clearly stated that the mandate was not a tax.”  “The governor does not believe the mandate is a tax?”
host Chuck Todd asked. “That is what you’re saying?”  ’A Penalty’  “The governor believes that what we put in place in
Massachusetts was a penalty and he disagrees with the court’s
ruling that the mandate was a tax,” the Romney adviser said.  The Obama campaign seized today on Romney’s own remarks,
using the interview to brand its opponent as a flip-flopper.  “Mitt: Fed freerider penalty is ‘‘tax,’’ identical MA law
is not. If he were in WH, parsley would be official veg:
Twister, national pastime,” senior Obama adviser  David Axelrod 
wrote in a Twitter message.  Obama spokeswoman  Jen Psaki  told reporters today that
Romney spent “years” defending the mandate included in his
Massachusetts plan as a penalty, not a tax.  “It is clear that he is being impacted by the push from
the right, the Rush Limbaughs of the world, congressional
Republicans, pushing him to go back on a decision and a defense
that he’s had in place for years,” she said  Emphasizing his disagreement with the court’s 5-4 decision,
Romney also said in the interview that Roberts “took a
departure” from sound reasoning.  “It gives the impression that the decision was made not
based upon a constitutional foundation but instead a political
consideration about the relationship between the branches of
government,” Romney said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  