-- Russia Stocks Drop First Day in Five as Oil Falls on Europe Woes
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2012-07-05T15:21:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/russia-stocks-drop-first-day-in-five-as-oil-retreats-on-concern.html
Russian stocks tumbled for the first
day in five as oil dropped and European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  said downside risks to the economy remained,
outweighing monetary easing from  China  and the U.K.  The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  declined 0.6 percent to 1,435.76 by the
close in Moscow after gaining as much as 1 percent earlier. OAO
 Tatneft (TATN) , a Russian oil producer based in the Tatarstan region,
rallied to a three-month high, adding 2 percent, after Moody’s
Investors Service raised its  credit rating  to one step below
investment grade. VTB Group, the country’s second-largest
lender, fell 3.1 percent after posting a net income drop.  Crude oil retreated as much as 1.3 percent in  New York . Oil
and gas contribute about 50 percent of Russia’s state revenue.
Draghi said “heightened uncertainty” was weighing on
confidence, pushing the ECB to cut  interest rates  to a record
low. The  Bank of England  restarted bond purchases two months
after halting its expansion of stimulus, and China cut benchmark
interest rates for the second time in a month.  “The policy easing helps with some of the symptoms but
there is still weak economic data around the globe, which easing
can’t resolve,”  Neil Shearing , chief emerging-markets economist
at Capital Economics Ltd. in London, said by phone. “The cut in
the Chinese interest rate wasn’t anticipated, it suggests a
deeper level of concern.”  RTS Falls  Russian stocks rallied earlier as China unexpectedly cut
rates and allowed banks to offer bigger discounts on their
lending costs, stepping up efforts to reverse a slowdown.  VTB slipped after reporting net income dropped 13 percent
in the first quarter to 22.7 billion rubles ($700 million).  The  dollar-denominated RTS Index  slid 1.4 percent to
1,388.07. MSCI Inc.’s emerging-market gauge traded little
changed.  Russia’s benchmark index, which has added 2.4 percent this
year, trades at 5.3 times  estimated earnings . That compares with
9.7 times projected earnings for MSCI’s emerging-market gauge,
which has gained 4.3 percent this year.  Russia’s equities  trade  at the cheapest valuations among 21
 emerging markets  tracked by Bloomberg, reflecting concern the
country is too reliant on energy exports.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  