-- Russian Banker Fights Extradition as Asset Hunt Begins
-- B y   M i l d a   S e p u t y t e   a n d   A a r o n   E g l i t i s
-- 2012-07-06T14:12:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/russian-banker-fights-extradition-as-global-asset-hunt-begins.html
One of the first things Neil Cooper
did in his hunt for more than $600 million missing from Bankas
Snoras AB was look at the defunct Baltic lender’s deleted files.  Tracing assets in 40 jurisdictions from  Switzerland  to the
 Cayman Islands  is like “a 3-D jigsaw,” according to bankruptcy
administrator Cooper, who’s searching for entities linked to
Snoras’s two former owners.  “You look at one piece and you can’t tell what it is at
all,” Cooper said June 27 in an interview at the bank’s
headquarters in Vilnius, Lithuania’s capital. “But you put a
number of pieces together and a picture starts to emerge.”  Vladimir Antonov , the Russian banker whose holding company
claimed in 2011 to have $7 billion of assets, and his Lithuanian
business partner Raimondas Baranauskas face extradition to the
Baltic country. Snoras was the nation’s third-biggest deposit
bank until regulators seized it on suspicion cash had been
siphoned off to pay for high-end property, luxury cars and a
U.K. soccer club.  The two men, who deny any wrongdoing, were released on bail
in November after being detained in London for fraud and
embezzlement under a European arrest warrant issued by
Lithuanian prosecutors. They were rearrested today in the U.K.
capital under a new warrant with  increased claims  against them
and granted bail immediately afterwards.  ‘Going Back’  Antonov, 37, and Baranauskas, 54, appeared in  London ’s
Westminster Magistrate’s Court, where Judge John Zani scheduled
another hearing on their extradition for July 27.  “These men need to know if they are going back to
Lithuania or not” so they can “get on with their lives,” he
said.  The Baltic nation’s central bank took Snoras over after
discovering about 20 percent of its gross assets were missing.
Prosecutors estimate the pair stole about 1.7 billion litai
($610 million) by forging documents and fixing accounts. Snoras
unit Latvijas Krajbanka AS, once neighboring  Latvia ’s sixth-
biggest deposit bank, was also declared insolvent in December
after 167 million lati ($297 million) of assets disappeared.  “Our position is that the renewed arrest is unlawful and
without grounds,”  Gytis Kaminskas , a lawyer representing
Antonov in Vilnius, said July 3 by phone.  Political Defense  Kevin Gold , a lawyer from Mishcon de Reya in London, where
it’s representing Antonov, didn’t return calls for comment on
July 3 and yesterday.  Allegations the men pushed the bank into insolvency are
reminiscent of tactics allegedly used by  Russia ’s leaders to
seize assets of political foes,  James Lewis , another Antonov
lawyer, told a Dec. 16 hearing in London. They call the case
against them politically motivated revenge after Antonov’s media
company published articles criticizing the government.  The  Vilnius District Court  will rule on an appeal against
the European arrest warrant July 9. Should Antonov be extradited
from his London home and convicted in Lithuania, he faces as
long as 10 years in prison, according to prosecutors.  Cooper, a partner at  Zolfo Cooper LLP  in London, was
appointed by the Vilnius court in December and represents
creditors from 53 countries including Russia,  Israel ,
 Kazakhstan , the U.S., Aruba and the Bahamas. In all, they’re
seeking 6.3 billion litai.  Asset Freeze  Antonov’s assets around the globe were frozen in May by a
London court after Snoras filed a separate civil lawsuit against
its former owners, seeking 395.5 million pounds ($614 million)
in compensation and damages. Cooper said the holdings Antonov is
obliged to declare under the freezing order may only be part of
what he’s after.  “By any standards this is an international case,” said
Cooper, who’s written two  books  on asset recovery and cross-
border bankruptcy. “This is an international insolvency
domiciled in Lithuania, as opposed to a Lithuanian bankruptcy
with some international aspects.”  Snoras used deposits to buy securities that were later
transferred to Swiss bank accounts belonging to people related
to Antonov and other former shareholders, according to
Lithuania’s central bank. The securities were then used as
collateral for loans, which were transferred to the offshore
accounts of other related parties, it alleges.  The outflow of funds continued for several years in “a
really quite complex web of associations,” according to Cooper.
“Without any shadow of a doubt,” the withdrawals pushed Snoras
into insolvency.  Sports Cars  During that time, Antonov acquired a stake in Dutch sports
carmaker  Spyker Cars NV (SWAN) , which bought  Sweden ’s Saab Automobile
AB in 2010 after the Russian banker had sold his shares.  He also took control of English soccer club  Portsmouth
F.C. , which went into administration following his arrest and
was later relegated to the country’s third division after
receiving a points penalty because of its financial position.  The latest victim of Antonov’s crumbling empire is
Dominica-based  Banco Trasatlantico Ltd ., which is undergoing
liquidation according to a June 29 e-mail from Deloitte
Consulting Ltd. in Barbados.  The sale of Snoras assets including  Bank Finasta AB , a
leasing business and a network of 230 banking kiosks should
happen “very soon” as several interested buyers are carrying
out due diligence, Cooper said.  Prosecutors in Vilnius seized personal assets valued at 300
million litai from former Snoras shareholders last year. Latvian
police took possession of 14 cars and one house registered to
Antonov in Jurmala, a wealthy town about 20 kilometers (12
miles) from Riga, the capital.  Jets, Yachts  Depositors who held 100,000 euros ($124,000) or less at
Snoras were reimbursed by  Lithuania ’s government through a
deposit-insurance program after Snoras’s bankruptcy in December.  Alleged fraud and illegal actions at Snoras should have
been scrutinized by authorities at an earlier stage, Lithuanian
parliamentary investigations concluded. The central bank fired
its head of banking supervision and auditing authorities
canceled a license for an Ernst & Young Baltic UAB employee
after reviewing his reports on the lender.  Based on the yachts, jets and a mansion in Nice accumulated
by Antonov and his associates, Cooper said he’s surprised that
people assumed Snoras and Krajbanka were simply engaged in
everyday banking.  “There isn’t the margin in retail banking to be able to
have offices like these, to run sports cars,” Cooper said. “So
how much was being done with smoke and mirrors?”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Milda Seputyte in Vilnius at 
 mseputyte@bloomberg.net 
Aaron Eglitis in Riga at 
 aeglitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  