-- Russian Weather Seen Below Average for Crops in July by Center
-- B y   M a r i n a   S y s o y e v a
-- 2012-07-05T14:08:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/russian-weather-seen-below-average-for-crops-in-july-by-center.html
Climate conditions for crop
development in parts of Russia’s Volga and Southern federal
districts and portions of West Siberia will be worse than the
multiyear average this month, the national weather center said.  The areas include the eastern Volga district, the Southern
district’s northeast and the southernmost part of West Siberia,
the Moscow-based  Federal Hydrometeorological Center  said on its
website. Conditions will be near average elsewhere in the
country, it said.  Weather was dry and hot in most parts of the Southern and
North Caucasus federal districts in the June 9-27 period, the
center said. Some grain in fields there was lowered to feed
quality, it said.  While drought in the Volga district that persisted in May
and June’s first half was stopped by rains in the region’s east,
other local areas continued to suffer from a lack of moisture
last month, according to the center. In West Siberia, weather
was unfavorable for crop development in the western part of the
Altai region and southern Omsk in June because of dryness, the
center said.  The Southern, Volga and North Caucasus federal districts
accounted for 57.3 percent of  Russia ’s national grain crop last
year with a combined harvest of 54 million metric tons,
according to government statistics. Siberia’s Altai and Omsk
regions were among the country’s top 10 grain-growing areas last
year after respectively reaping 3.9 million and 3.4 million tons
of cereals, the figures show.  Russia will harvest 85 million tons of grains this year,
down from 94 million tons in 2011, Agriculture Minister Nikolai
Fedorov said June 25.  Wheat for September delivery closed at $7.9925 a bushel on
the Chicago Board of Trade on July 3. Trading was shut yesterday
for the Independence Day holiday and will resume today at 9:30
a.m. local time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marina Sysoyeva in Moscow at 
 msysoyeva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  