-- S. African Airways Should Fly to All of Africa’s Capitals
-- B y   M a t t h e w   H i l l
-- 2012-07-06T07:34:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/s-african-air-should-fly-to-all-african-capitals-gigaba-says.html
South African Airways , the state-
owned airline, needs to start flights to every African capital
city and cut routes to destinations on other continents, Public
Enterprises Minister  Malusi Gigaba  said.  “The African routes are profitable, but they are being
undercut, undone by the unprofitable international routes,” he
said in an interview in Pretoria, South  Africa ’s capital,
yesterday.  The airline will add flights to Ivory Coast and Congo
Republic in August and September, it said June 27 and has begun
flying to six new African destinations since October. The
airline serves 20 African destinations, it said in its 2011
annual report.  South African Airways has this year stopped flights between
Cape Town and London as it competes with Virgin Atlantic Airways
Ltd. and  British Airways (IAG) , a unit of International Consolidated
Airline Group SA. Gigaba said in May that the company will need
government money to fund aircraft purchases. No immediate
assistance is planned, he said yesterday  The airline was in talks with the Department of Public
Enterprises and the National Treasury for funding of between 4
billion rand ($490 million) and 6 billion rand, Johannesburg’s
Business Day newspaper said on Feb. 15, citing Chief Financial
Officer Wolf Meyer.  SAA needs a new strategy and to prioritize flights to
Africa, Gigaba said.  “It needs a whole new re-think,” he said.  While the state recognizes the strategic importance of the
airline for  South Africa , it cannot keep approaching government
for financial assistance, he said.  National Treasury and the Department of Public Enterprises
are discussing re-capitalizing SAA “for the medium to long
term,” needed more information from the carrier, commented
Gigaba.  SAA, which is based in Johannesburg, competes with airlines
including Nairobi-based  Kenya Airways Ltd. (KNAL)  and Ethiopian
Airlines in servicing African routes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Hill in Johannesburg at 
 mhill58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  