-- Samsung Shares Fall After Quarterly Sales Miss Estimates
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 2012-07-06T06:21:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/samsung-2nd-quarter-profit-beats-estimates-on-galaxy-phone-sales.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , the world’s
largest maker of televisions and mobile phones, fell in Seoul
trading after second-quarter sales missed estimates, fanning
concern that  Europe ’s debt crisis is dragging on demand.  Samsung dropped 2 percent to 1,161,000 won at the close of
trading in Seoul, compared with a 0.9 percent decline in the
benchmark Kospi index. The South Korean company was the biggest
contributor to the decline on the MSCI Asia-Pacific Index today.  Sales of 47 trillion won ($41 billion) trailed the 49.8
trillion-won average of 35 analyst  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg, overshadowing operating profit that rose to a record.
The  European Central Bank  cut its benchmark interest rate to a
record low yesterday and  China  also reduced borrowing costs,
adding to signs that global electronics demand may weaken.  “Samsung’s earnings will likely peak in the third
quarter,” Lim Dori, an analyst at Shinyoung Securities Co. in
Seoul, said today. “There are concerns about the macro
economy.”  Asian stocks fell for a second day, paring this week’s gain
on the regional benchmark index, as the  interest-rate  cuts in
Europe and China failed to assure investors the moves will be
enough to boost economic growth.  Samsung’s second-quarter operating profit rose 79 percent
from a year earlier to 6.7 trillion won, the Suwon-based company
said in a statement today. The  average  of 32 analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg was 6.58 trillion won.  Smartphone Shipments  Operating profit may be 200 billion won higher or lower
than today’s preliminary estimate when audited results are
announced later this month, Samsung said. The company didn’t
provide net income for the quarter or divisional earnings.  Earnings at the  telecommunications business  more than
doubled to 4.42 trillion won from 1.67 trillion won, according
to the median of six analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg
News. Sales probably almost doubled to 24.1 trillion won,
according to the survey.  Samsung likely shipped 50 million smartphones in the second
quarter, Matt Evans, a Seoul-based analyst at CLSA Asia-Pacific
Markets, said in a June 20 report. He cut his estimate from 53.4
million units, citing lower-than-expected sales of cheaper
models in  emerging markets , and competition from Huawei
Technologies Co. and ZTE Corp.  Galaxy S III  Shipments of the Galaxy S III, the latest version of
Samsung’s best-selling smartphone line-up, probably totaled 7
million units by the end of June since the model went on sale
the previous month, Song Myung Sup, a Seoul-based analyst at HI
Investment & Securities Co., said in a June 27 report.  That was fewer than expected as production was hampered by
a shortage of components such as chips and cases, he wrote.  Samsung is unable to keep up with demand for the new phone
and doesn’t have trouble sourcing parts, the company said in an
e-mailed statement on June 28. A delay in shipments in the U.S.
is a “temporary situation,” according to the statement.  The Korean company overtook  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  as the world’s
largest handset maker for the first time and regained the lead
in smartphones from  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  in the first quarter.  Samsung has been fighting patent battles related to mobile-
phone technology and design for more than a year with Apple,
also the South Korean company’s largest customer. Apple won a
U.S. court order on June 29 to block sales of Samsung’s Galaxy
Nexus smartphone, the first smartphone to use  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s
Android 4.0 operating system.  Chip Prices  Profit at the semiconductor division fell 29 percent to 1.3
trillion won amid a decline in global personal-computer demand,
according to the Bloomberg News survey.  The price of the benchmark DDR3 2-gigabit DRAM averaged
$1.03 in the last quarter, compared with $1.82 a year earlier,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The price drop pushed Elpida Memory Inc. to file for
 Japan ’s biggest bankruptcy in two years in February. Earlier
this week,  Micron Technology Inc. (MU)  agreed to buy the bankrupt
chipmaker to double its market share after four consecutive
quarters of losses.  Manufacturers of DRAM, used in PCs to help multiple
applications run smoothly, may slow output increases in the
third quarter, helping boost prices, HI’s Song said in his June
27 report.  New Plant  Samsung, the exclusive manufacturer of Apple-designed chips
powering the iPhone and the iPad, has been diversifying away
from PC DRAM to more profitable semiconductor products used in
mobile devices and servers to beat downturns in the computer-
memory industry.  Last month, the company said it plans to spend 2.25
trillion won to build a new plant making mobile-phone
processors. Samsung plans to  spend  15 trillion won on the
semiconductor business this year.  Samsung’s display business had an operating profit of 525
billion won, compared with a loss of 210 billion won a year
earlier, according to the survey.  While flat-screen TV sales aren’t picking up, the company
is benefiting from demand for displays used in mobile devices.
Operating profit at the unit making panels for smartphones
including Samsung’s own Galaxy models more than tripled in the
second quarter, accounting for 86 percent of earnings at the
display business, according to IBK Securities Co. estimates.  Global TV Shipments  Global TV shipments fell for the first time since 2004 last
year, according to DisplaySearch, part of NPD Group. Worldwide
TV shipments fell about 8 percent in the first quarter as sales
of liquid-crystal-display models dropped on an annual basis for
the first time, the research company said on June 20.  Samsung’s consumer-electronics business, which includes TV
operations, probably boosted operating profit to 580 billion won
from 510 billion won a year earlier, according to the survey.  “Chips and display businesses will also recover,” said
Park Jong Min, a portfolio manager at ING Investment Management
Korea Ltd., which oversees about $17 billion. “It will be more
gradual because demand growth is limited with the global economy
slowing down.”  Following is a table showing median operating-profit
estimates for the four main business divisions of Samsung. The
estimates are in billions of won and (-) indicates a loss.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in  Seoul  at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  