-- Sanofi to End Toulouse, Montpellier Research, Union Says
-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 2012-07-05T12:52:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/sanofi-to-end-toulouse-montpellier-research-union-says-2-.html
Sanofi (SAN)  plans to end research in
Toulouse, where the blockbuster Plavix blood thinner was
developed, and Montpellier, further downsizing French
operations, a union representative at the company said.  About 600 jobs are at risk in Toulouse and 200 in
Montpellier, Thierry Bodin, a representative of the CGT union,
told reporters in Gentilly, outside of Paris, after a meeting
with managers today.  Europe ’s third-biggest drugmaker wants to
regroup its research in the Paris region and around Lyon, he
said. The company also plans to eliminate support functions and
cut jobs at its Pasteur vaccine division, Bodin said.  While Sanofi hasn’t given an exact figure for the number of
jobs to be cut, an estimate of about 2,000 is “probably close
to reality,” Bodin told reporters. Paris-based Sanofi may seek
to sell the Toulouse site, he said.  Chief Executive Officer  Chris Viehbacher  began an overhaul
of Sanofi’s research in 2009, reducing headcount, closing plants
and dropping the least promising projects. At the same time, he
stepped up acquisitions and partnerships to gain new products,
including the $20.1 billion purchase of U.S. biotechnology
company Genzyme Corp., the world’s largest maker of treatments
for rare genetic diseases, last year. Sanofi said in September
it was targeting 2 billion euros ($2.5 billion) of cost cuts
through 2015.  September Plan  At today’s meeting, Sanofi laid out areas it wants to
discuss with unions, with the goal of coming up with a plan in
September, Jean-Marc Podvin, a spokesman for the company, said
in a telephone interview. No job cut figures were given and all
options remain open for Toulouse, he said. Montpellier could
become a center focused on clinical development, he added.  Sanofi has five centers for pharmaceutical research in
 France  -- in Toulouse, Vitry-Alfortville, Montpellier,
Strasbourg and Chilly-Mazarin, according to Bodin.  “I have no idea about what they want to do with Vitry, for
example,” Pascal Collemine, another CGT representative at the
company, said in an interview in Gentilly. “They are tearing it
all down, almost a building torn down each month. It does raise
questions. These successive waves of job cuts are highly de-
motivating. It’s certainly not the right way to boost research
productivity. Research takes time, and some stability.”  The French drugmaker is considering boosting research in
Vitry and Chilly-Mazarin, Podvin said during the interview.  Strasbourg, Lyon  According to the plan being considered, the Strasbourg
center would become a “platform for collaboration” with
academia and biotech companies, Podvin said. Lyon, where
Sanofi’s Pasteur division is based, would become a research
center for infectious diseases, he added.  The aim would be for Sanofi to build “research
ecosystems” in the Paris region, Lyon and Strasbourg, Podvin
said.  Unions want Sanofi to “freeze” the overhaul until the
plan can be properly negotiated, Bodin told reporters today.  Sanofi’s “strategy is to reduce internal research and to
have other actors, such as small biotechs, academic research, as
a sort of panacea to find new molecules, new vaccines,” Bodin
said. “This may look pretty on paper but we all know that for
collaboration to work, strong internal expertise is needed.
Sanofi’s management is destroying this today.”  The maker of the Lantus diabetes medicine and Lovenox
blood-thinner said in November it would eliminate jobs in the
U.S. and Europe after buying Cambridge, Massachusetts-based
Genzyme.  Viehbacher and Christian Lajoux, the head of Sanofi’s
French unit, had a meeting scheduled with French Productive
Recovery Minister  Arnaud Montebourg  on July 2, according to
Montebourg’s  agenda , available on the ministry’s website.  In November, Sanofi told unions it planned to eliminate 555
research jobs in  Italy , Hungary and  Germany , 900 in the U.S.,
and to begin negotiations for cuts in other countries, Bodin had
said at the time.  The company has already slashed about 4,000 jobs in France
over the past three years, according to the unions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  