-- HSBC Millionaire Client Fined for Swiss Bank Tax Evasion
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 2012-07-05T14:52:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/hsbc-millionaire-client-fined-after-hiding-funds-in-geneva-bank.html
Michael Shanly, a millionaire British
property developer, was ordered to pay 830,000 pounds ($1.3
million) by a London court after failing to disclose offshore
funds at  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ’s Swiss private bank.  “Mr. Shanly -- like others -- took advantage of his
offshore account to hide money that was owed to the public
purse,”  Chris Martin , an official at the U.K. revenue and
customs agency, known as HMRC, said today in a  statement 
published on the department’s website.  Shanly, 67, who features at number 480 on the Sunday Times
U.K. rich list, evaded 430,000 pounds of inheritance tax when
his mother died, after he closed a Swiss account that held some
of her money, according to HMRC. He was convicted yesterday of
cheating the public revenue at Wood Green Crown Court.  The case is the first to come before a court using data
obtained by HMRC from  France  in 2010 after Herve Falciani, a
former software technician at HSBC in Geneva, stole data on at
least 24,000 accounts. Investigations resulting from the
Falciani data may lead to more than 100 criminal prosecutions, a
person with knowledge of the matter said May 15, after HMRC
reported that it was acting on information on about 6,000
individuals, companies, trusts and other bodies.  Increasing Wealth  “Individuals are responsible for their own tax affairs,”
said Medard Schoenmaeckers, a Zurich-based spokesman for HSBC.
“HSBC does not condone or assist  tax evasion .”  The unpaid tax on his mother’s estate was overlooked at the
time of her death, Shanly’s lawyer said in an e-mailed
statement, which was forwarded by Tamra Booth at U.K. property
company Shanly Group.  “As a result of the investigation by HMRC, Mr. Shanly
accepted that he did have an obligation, as administrator of his
mother’s estate, to include the capital sum and accrued
interest, in her estate,” the statement from the lawyer said.  Shanly increased his wealth by 25 million pounds to 157
million pounds, according to the Sunday Times 2012 ranking
published in April.  At the time of the  data theft  by Falciani, HSBC’s Swiss
private bank had no more than 1,500 clients in any one country,
a Geneva-based official, who declined to be named in line with
company policy, said in May.  The U.K. and  Switzerland  completed an agreement in March to
settle a dispute over tax evasion by wealthy Britons holding
offshore accounts with Swiss private banks. Under the agreement,
customers must either make a declaration to HMRC or pay a
withholding tax that also covers their past failure to disclose
undeclared assets.  The U.K. is targeting residents with bank accounts held
outside the country as it seeks to plug a 35 billion-pound  tax
gap  and help reduce the nation’s fiscal deficit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at   gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  