-- Seagate Fourth-Quarter Sales, Gross Margin Miss Forecasts
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2012-07-06T20:04:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/seagate-says-fourth-quarter-sales-gross-margin-missed-forecasts.html
Seagate Technology Plc (STX)  said fiscal
fourth-quarter sales and profit margin would miss the company’s
previous forecast, citing reduced hard-drive shipments and a
“supplier quality issue” that affected some products.  Seagate, the world’s  largest maker  of computer disk drives,
expects to report fiscal fourth-quarter sales of $4.5 billion
and gross margin, excluding certain items, of 33.6 percent --
lower than its previous forecast for sales of at least $5
billion and gross margin of 34.5 percent. The  average estimate 
of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was for $4.88 billion in sales
and 34.7 percent gross margin.  The company in a statement cited reduced shipments in
response to competitors’ faster-than-expected recovery from
supply-chain disruptions and “an isolated supplier quality
issue” that affected about 1.5 million of its enterprise
storage products.  Seagate spokesman Brian Ziel said in an e-mail that the
reduction in shipments was related to last year’s flooding in
 Thailand . The floods affected suppliers to Seagate’s factories
in the country, and rival  Western Digital Corp. (WDC)  suspended
production for a time because of the floods.  Ziel declined to specify the quality problem or the
supplier in question, saying the issue “is behind us now.”  Seagate Chief Executive Officer Steve Luczo said in the
statement that the company is “approaching the September
quarter conservatively” and planning for “relatively flat”
demand in the period.  Shares of Dublin-based Seagate fell 0.5 percent to $24.96
at the close in  New York . The stock has gained 52 percent this
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  