-- NYSE Brokerage Plan That Doesn’t Display Orders Approved by SEC
-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 2012-07-06T04:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/sec-approves-nyse-s-program-to-attract-orders-from-individuals.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission approved a pilot plan that will allow some orders to
go undisplayed on the New York Stock Exchange as a way for the
biggest stock trading venue to attract individual investors.  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  said in a statement yesterday the program
will begin Aug. 1. The company  sought permission  in October to
create a new class of retail liquidity providers that would be
allowed to reserve and keep hidden bids and offers for smaller
investors with prices that beat those in the rest of the market.  The NYSE’s share of trading in  companies  it lists fell
below 25 percent in May from 82 percent in 2003 as more
transactions were handled by brokers through a process known as
internalization, data compiled by Barclays Plc show. While the
new arrangement has been labeled a “dark pool” by some
analysts, exchange executives say it’s not the same thing.  “The big difference in the program is it’s still operated
in the exchange framework,” Joseph Mecane, executive vice
president and chief administrative officer for U.S. markets at
NYSE Euronext, said yesterday in a phone interview. “While we
are able to segment retail customers, all the rules about how we
treat retail customers differently are filed and standardized
and submitted to the SEC,” he said. “Dark pools can
discriminate with complete discretion.”  Wholesale Orders  Dark pools, unlike exchanges, are private venues that
execute orders without displaying bids and offers in advance.
They also aren’t required to seek regulatory approval every time
they change a rule.  Most orders from individual investors who trade through
retail brokers are sent to wholesalers such as  Knight Capital
Group Inc. (KCG)  and Citadel LLC, who pay the brokers for sending
them. The wholesalers can then execute the orders internally,
instead of going to an exchange, as long as they provide prices
that match or improve upon levels in the public markets.  Orders from individual investors are attractive to market
makers and asset managers because the senders, unlike
professional traders, aren’t expected to know more about short-
term price  movements  than the firm on the other side of the
trade. Soliciting the orders could lure more trading volume to
NYSE, Mecane said.  Under the exchange’s program, two new categories of brokers
would be created: retail member organizations and retail
 liquidity  providers. Orders from a firm in the first group or a
broker acting on its behalf could trade against hidden orders at
the exchange intended only for retail clients.  Wholesaler Competition  “The NYSE is responding to competition from wholesalers
and dark pools,” James Angel, a finance professor at  Georgetown
University ’s business school in  Washington , said in an e-mail
yesterday. “They are doing the, ‘If you can’t beat ’em join
’em,’ thing.”  NYSE Euronext’s plan may provide an incentive to retail
brokers such as  E*Trade Financial Corp. (ETFC)  and TD Ameritrade
Holding Corp. to send orders directly to the exchange. As more
retail orders come in, the institutional investors who trade on
the exchange would see more retail orders, attracting
institutional investors and more business to NYSE Euronext.  Knight, one of the main market makers on the NYSE, said in
December that the plan could disrupt trading by dismantling a
ban on quote increments of less than 1 cent. That, in turn,
could require technology upgrades and changes to trading rules,
according to Leonard Amoruso, Knight’s general counsel.  Dark Pool  “Retail orders are going to be executed basically within a
dark pool within the exchange,”  Larry Tabb , chief executive
officer of research firm Tabb Group LLC in New York, said in a
phone interview yesterday. “You won’t be able to see those
orders because they’re going to get a better execution price
than the displayed price. You’re going to wind up creating a
subpenny market within the market that won’t be displayed.”  About 10 percent of U.S. equities volume comes from
individual traders, according to NYSE’s Mecane. Discount and
other brokers that cater to those clients often turn to
wholesalers for orders that can be traded at the market’s
prevailing price.  Charles Schwab Corp. sent 99 percent of its orders to UBS
AG in the second quarter of 2011. TD Ameritrade sent 74 percent
of its market orders in NYSE-listed stocks to Citadel and 21
percent to UBS in the third quarter last year.  NYSE Euronext  executives  have argued that the increase in
orders traded away from exchanges erodes the ability of buyers
and sellers to interact and yield prices that are deemed
reliable. About 30 percent of equities trading takes place over-
the-counter, with those transactions based on prices established
on exchanges, according to data from Bats Global Markets Inc.  Fee Structure  The pricing reverses the traditional fee structure on the
biggest U.S. exchanges, which normally pay firms adding
liquidity and charge as much as 30 cents per 100 shares for
those trading against existing orders. Exchanges pocket the
difference. The 30-cent cap was set by the SEC.  NYSE’s designated market makers, which include units of
Barclays Plc, Getco LLC, Knight and Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,
along with the exchange’s so-called supplemental liquidity
providers, such as automated firms Virtu Financial LLC and
Hudson River Trading LLC, could supply orders for retail brokers
through the program. Mutual funds and other investors could
furnish orders for individual traders, although their fee would
be higher than what NYSE’s liquidity providers pay.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney Kisling in  New York  at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at   lthomasson@bloomberg.net . 