-- Service Industries in U.S. Probably Grew at Slower Pace
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-07-05T13:16:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/service-industries-in-u-s-probably-expanded-at-slower-pace.html
Service industries  in the U.S.
probably grew in June at a slower pace, a sign the world’s
largest economy is struggling to maintain momentum, economists
said before a report today.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s index of non-
manufacturing businesses, covering about 90 percent of the
economy, fell to 53 from 53.7 in May, according to the  median 
forecast of 63 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Readings
above 50 signal expansion. Initial  jobless claims  last week
stayed close to the highest level of 2012, other data may show.  Companies from  Family Dollar Stores Inc. (FDO)  to  FedEx Corp. (FDX)  are
seeing waning demand, underscoring concern about  Europe ’s debt
crisis, cooling global markets and an absence of U.S. fiscal
policy clarity that’s also hurting manufacturing. Limited hiring
and income growth indicate households will be reluctant to step
up purchases, which account for about 70 percent of the economy.  “The outlook for  consumer spending  stays pretty soft,”
said Ellen Zentner, a senior economist at Nomura Securities
International Inc. in  New York . “There is slow to no wage
growth. Economic growth is still frustratingly slow.”  The Tempe, Arizona-based ISM’s non-manufacturing report is
due at 10 a.m. Bloomberg survey estimates ranged from 51.5 to
54.2.  Fewer Americans than forecast filed first-time claims for
unemployment insurance payments last week. Applications for
jobless benefits decreased by 14,000 in the week ended June 30
to 374,000, the fewest since mid-May, Labor Department figures
showed today. Economists forecast 385,000 claims, according to
the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.  The ISM services survey covers industries that range from
utilities and retailing to health care, housing and finance.  Manufacturing Decline  The report follows July 2 data that showed a slowdown in
overseas markets including  China  is limiting American exports
and damping prospects for manufacturers. The ISM factory index
fell to 49.7 in June, the first contraction in almost three
years and worse than the most-pessimistic forecast in a
Bloomberg survey.  Sales are also softening in part because of the lack of
progress in the labor market. The payrolls tally in June
probably crowned the weakest quarter for employment in more than
two years, economists in the Bloomberg survey forecast ahead of
a Labor Department report due tomorrow. The jobless rate, which
has exceeded 8 percent for 40 consecutive months, may have held
at 8.2 percent in June.  Family Dollar, the owner of more than 7,200 discount shops
in the U.S., narrowed its profit forecast for fiscal 2012 after
third-quarter sales trailed analysts’ average estimate.  ‘Economic Headwinds’  “It is clear that consumers continue to face difficult
economic headwinds,” Chief Executive Officer  Howard Levine  said
on a June 28 conference call with analysts. Discretionary
purchases like home goods and apparel continue to be
“challenged,” he said.  Retail shares have weakened more than the broader market.
The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Retailing Index of 92
companies is down 5.3 percent since the end of April compared
with a 1.7 percent drop in the  S&P 500 (SPX)  Index.  Demand remains soft, according to FedEx, which is
considered an economic bellwether because it carries everything
from mobile devices to pharmaceuticals. The  Memphis , Tennessee-
based company, operator of the world’s largest cargo airline,
pledged “significant cost reductions” as slowing economic
growth pressures profits.  “We now realize we’ve got to adjust the networks that we
built for higher gross domestic product growth than we’re
actually seeing,” Chief Financial Officer Alan Graf said on an
earnings call last month.  To combat flagging growth, Federal Reserve policy makers
said they are ready to take more steps should the U.S. expansion
slacken. Fed officials said in a policy statement on June 20
that they expect “economic growth to remain moderate over
coming quarters and then to pick up very gradually.”  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  