-- Deutsche Telekom Said to Win Extension of Shell Data Deal
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2012-07-06T08:06:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/shell-said-to-renew-1-billion-euro-deutsche-telekom-data-deal.html
Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ’s T-Systems unit
won an extension of a 1 billion-euro ($1.2 billion) contract to
manage  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ’s data centers, two people familiar
with the matter said.  The initial outsourcing deal, signed in March 2008, will be
extended by at least another five years, the people said, asking
not to be identified as the agreement hasn’t been announced.
Under the new pact, T-Systems is moving data into a cloud-
computing infrastructure, meaning Shell can access information
and services remotely, without having to maintain its own
servers, one of the people said.  T-Systems, whose  sales  of 9.2 billion euros accounted for
about 16 percent of Bonn-based Deutsche Telekom’s revenue last
year, is using cloud services as a way to help clients cut
technology spending and facilitate data access. The unit is
trying to standardize and speed up its processes, meaning
employees won’t have to start from scratch on new projects,
after the division’s profitability dropped last year.  “The larger the deal, the larger the prestige, and that
usually means harsher competition and lower margins,” said
Joeri Sels, an analyst at DZ Bank AG in Frankfurt, who
recommends investors sell Deutsche Telekom shares. T-Systems’s
earnings before interest and taxes dropped to 2.7 percent of
sales last year from 3.7 in 2010.  Old Mutual  Deutsche Telekom  shares  fell 0.4 percent to 8.62 euros in
Frankfurt, compared with a 0.2 percent decline in the 19-member
Bloomberg Europe Telecommunication Services Index. The shares
have fallen about 18 percent in the past 12 months, valuing the
company at 37.3 billion euros.  T-Systems, whose competitors include  International Business
Machines Corp. (IBM) ,  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  and  Accenture Plc. (ACN) , this
year announced outsourcing contracts with companies such as U.K.
insurer  Old Mutual Plc (OML)  and  British American Tobacco Plc. (BATS)  When T-
Systems announced the Shell deal in 2008, it said it would take
on about 900 employees of the  oil company  and five data centers
and turn the data center in Malaysia into its operational hub
for the Asia-Pacific region.  Shell last year asked the Deutsche Telekom unit to host
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s SharePoint software, which lets Shell
employees communicate and collaborate via the Web.  Stefan Koenig, a spokesman for T-Systems, declined to
comment.  T-Systems, Europe’s largest provider of cloud-computing
services, is also taking over the management of its parent’s
internal computer and communications systems.  The Deutsche Telekom unit, whose European operations
include sites in Debrecen, Hungary, and St. Petersburg as well
as in the Czech Republic, partnered with  Cognizant Technology
Solutions Corp. (CTSH)  in 2008 to expand its reach and cut costs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  