-- Simpson Thacher, Dechert, Buchanan: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-07-05T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/simpson-thacher-dechert-buchanan-business-of-law.html
MModal Inc. (MODL) , the largest provider of
medical transcription services, said it agreed to be bought by a
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  unit for about $1.1 billion.  One Equity Partners, JPMorgan’s private investment arm, will
pay $14 a share in cash for MModal, or 8.3 percent more than the
stock’s July 2 closing price, the Franklin, Tennessee-based
company said in a statement July 3. MModal’s board accepted the
offer, to be made in a tender on or before July 17 and expected
to be completed by September, the company said.  Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP is acting as legal counsel
to MModal, which is getting financial advice from the Macquarie
Group Ltd. and by  RBC Capital Markets . One Equity, which has
obtained equity and debt financing for the transaction, was
advised by Bank of America Corp. and RBC Capital Markets.
Dechert LLP is providing legal counsel. Davis Polk & Wardwell
LLP is advising  Macquarie Capital .  The Simpson Thacher team for the transaction includes
Daniel Clivner, mergers and acquisitions; Arman Oruc, antitrust;
Tristan Brown, executive compensation and employee benefits; and
Lori Lesser, intellectual property.  Dechert partners Derek Winokur, corporate, and Scott
Zimmerman, finance, are providing legal counsel to One Equity
Partners in this transaction.  The Davis Polk corporate team included  New York  partner
William L. Taylor.  MModal’s speech recognition and document processing
technologies will be in demand as hospitals race to become more
efficient after the U.S. Supreme Court upheld the health-care
overhaul, said Leo Carpio, an analyst with Caris & Co. in New
York. The company has 12,000 employees in five countries, and
more than 140 patents and licenses for speech recognition and
understanding technology, according to its website.  “Altogether, it’s an attractive asset,” Carpio said.
“This allows physicians to be productive, while still capturing
the data they need.”  The acquisition values MModal, which had an enterprise
value of $978.2 million as of March 31, at 18.8 times earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and goodwill amortization,
compared with a median of 33 times among 10 comparable deals,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  One Equity manages about $11 billion of assets, according
to the statement. It has invested about $9 billion since 2001
buying more than 60 companies across the chemicals, health care,
technology, travel and manufacturing industries, the New York-
based group said on its  website .  For more, click here.  Carlyle Takes Over Operations of Sunoco Refinery  Carlyle Group , the Washington-based private-equity firm
that went public this year, is taking over operations of a
 Sunoco Inc. (SUN)  refinery on a bet that revived U.S. oil and natural-
gas output can restore to profit the oldest continually
operating refinery on the U.S. East Coast.  Sunoco received legal advice from Kirkland & Ellis LLP and
financial advice from Credit Suisse AG. The Carlyle Group got
legal advice from Vinson & Elkins LLP and Buchanan Ingersoll &
Rooney LLP.  The Kirkland team included partners William Sorabella,
Daniel Michaels and David Feirstein.  Buchanan Ingersoll partners included: Thomas Paese, Thomas
Giotto, Fred D’Angelo, James Forsyth and James O’Toole, Dave
Sweet and Scott Baker. Vinson & Elkins declined to provide
information about their firm’s involvement.  Carlyle will invest an undisclosed amount in Sunoco’s
330,000-barrel-a-day Philadelphia refinery as part of a joint
venture, the companies said July 2 in a statement. Sunoco will
retain a minority stake.  Carlyle plans to process oil delivered by rail from  North
Dakota ’s Bakken formation where production has risen fourfold in
the last three years. It will also use gas from the Marcellus
Shale in  Pennsylvania , where output doubled last year, to run
the refinery.  Oil from the Bakken and the Eagle Ford deposit in  Texas 
will displace almost half the more costly imported oil used by
the refinery by early next year, Phil Rinaldi, chief executive
officer of the venture, Philadelphia Energy Solutions, said June
2 on a conference call.  The agreement means that two of three Pennsylvania
refineries that faced shutdown will keep operating. The Carlyle
joint venture follows Delta Air Lines Inc.’s decision to buy a
ConocoPhillips refinery south of Philadelphia in April for
$150 million. Pennsylvania lawmakers have opposed plans to close
the three refineries, saying the shutdowns would reduce jobs and
raise gasoline prices.  The state will contribute $10 million toward the rail
terminal, capable of unloading 140,000 barrels per day by early
2013. That’s part of a $25 million package that includes
$15 million to overhaul the plant. The refinery will also be
eligible for tax abatements and tax-free bond sales, Governor
Tom Corbett, a Republican, said on the conference call.  For more, click here.  Moves  Litigation Partners Join Gibson Dunn in Leadership Roles  Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP hired Thad Davis and Michael
Li-Ming Wong in the firm’s  San Francisco  office as partners.
Both were previously with Ropes & Gray LLP. Davis joins Gibson
Dunn as co-chair of the securities litigation practice group,
and Wong will serve as co-chair of the firm’s securities
enforcement group and also be a member of the white collar
defense and investigations group.  Davis focuses on complex business litigation, including
trial practice in securities, regulatory, mergers and
acquisitions, antitrust, data privacy and trade secret matters.  Wong, a former chief of the white collar crimes section for
the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Northern District of
 California , focuses on securities enforcement, white-collar
defense matters and courtroom litigation, the firm said.  “Thad and Mike are terrific additions to the firm,” said
Ken Doran, chairman and managing partner of  Gibson Dunn . “They
both have significant trial experience and will expand the
capabilities of our Northern California offices and increase the
bench strength of the firm’s white collar, civil and
investigations practices.”  Gibson Dunn has more than 1,000 lawyers in 17 offices in
the U.S.,  Europe , South American and  Asia .  Hunton & Williams Hires Patton Boggs Bankruptcy Chair  Hunton & Williams LLP hired Michael P. Richman as a partner
in its bankruptcy, restructuring and creditors’ rights practice
group. Richman, who has 25 years of experience in Chapter 11
bankruptcy, was the chair of Patton Boggs LLP’s bankruptcy
practice, the firm said.  “Michael is an accomplished bankruptcy lawyer and his move
to Hunton & Williams is another step in our strategy to further
enhance our national practice,” said Tyler P. Brown, global
head of the firm’s bankruptcy, restructuring and creditors’
rights practice group.  Hunton & Williams has more than 800 lawyers in 19 offices
in the U.S., Europe and Asia.  Paul Hastings Hires Finance Partner in London  Paul Hastings  LLP announced that Ugo Giordano has joined
the firm as a partner in the finance practice in the  London 
office. Giordano has practiced in the U.K. since 1996, and
leaves Ashurst, the firm said.  Giordano qualified in  Rome  and has experience in  capital
markets , securitization, structured finance, structured
products, banking and securities regulation.  “The Paul Hastings finance and capital markets practice in
London has established an impressive reputation in recent years.
Ugo is a high class addition to this team who brings a vast
amount of experience and energy to our practice and adds further
to our Italian finance offering in London and in Milan,” said
Ronan O’Sullivan, chair of the London office.  Paul Hastings has 19 offices in Asia, Europe, and the U.S.  Firm News  Hughes Hubbard Appoints Fellas Arbitration Co-Chair  New York-based partner John Fellas has been appointed co-
chair of the Hughes Hubbard & Reed LLP’s arbitration and
alternative dispute resolution practice group. Fellas will co-
chair the practice with Washington-based partner John Townsend
and Paris-based partner José Rosell.  “The promotion of John Fellas to co-chair of Hughes
Hubbard’s Arbitration and ADR practice group constitutes a
recognition of the high profile that John has achieved outside
of the firm and of the leadership that he has been providing for
some time within our arbitration practice,” Townsend said in a
statement.  Hughes Hubbard’s arbitration and ADR group has more than 50
lawyers serving as arbitrator or counsel in international
arbitrations in all parts of the world. The firm’s arbitration
and ADR practice represents sovereign states and private sector
clients in a range of public international law matters,
including international arbitration.  Hughes Hubbard has eight offices in the U.S., Europe and
Asia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in  Brooklyn , New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 