-- Sinatra Haunt Renovation Plans Lifting ICA Bonds: Mexico Credit
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n   a n d   B r e n d a n   C a s e
-- 2012-07-05T12:19:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/sinatra-haunt-renovation-plans-lifting-ica-bonds-mexico-credit.html
Incoming Mexican President Enrique Pena Nieto’s vow to improve the country’s highways, ports and
plazas is making builder  Empresas ICA SAB (ICA*) ’s bonds a buy to Grupo
Financiero Interacciones SA and Corp. Actinver SAB.  Pena Nieto signed and notarized more than 200 pledges in
cities across Mexico during the campaign, with about 75 percent
of the promises focusing on infrastructure. The program, which
includes plans to renovate a stretch of Acapulco, the Pacific
beach resort once frequented by  Frank Sinatra , will boost a
 construction industry  already benefiting from quickening
economic growth, said  Alejandro Hernandez , who helps manage
about $1 billion of assets at Interacciones.  Dollar bonds issued by ICA, Mexico’s largest construction
company, have rallied in the past month. Yields on the company’s
notes due 2021 dropped 73 basis points in that period to 9.78
percent, compared with a decline of 60 basis points for
 similarly rated  corporate debt in the region, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg and Credit Suisse Group AG.  “The infrastructure industry is going to grow under the
new administration,” Hernandez said in a phone interview from
Mexico City. “ICA is a solid, strong company.”  ICA’s bonds due 2021 have returned 5.2 percent in the past
month, extending this year’s gain to 11.5 percent. The bonds
yield 726 basis points, or 7.26 percentage points, more than
similar-maturity Mexican government debt, down from 749 a month
earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Standard &
Poor’s  rates the construction company BB-, three levels below
investment grade and four levels below Mexico.  Veracruz Highway  ICA stock has rallied 23 percent in the past month to 24.78
pesos yesterday, while rival  OHL Mexico SAB (OHLMEX*)  added 17 percent.
Promotora y Operadora de Infraestructura SAB, a Mexican toll
highway operator, rallied 20 percent in the period.  Pena Nieto rolled to victory in the July 1 vote, bringing
the  Institutional Revolutionary Party , or PRI, back into power
for the first time since its 71-year rule was broken in 2000.
Preliminary results from the Federal Electoral Institute show
Pena Nieto captured 38.2 percent of votes, compared with 31.6
percent for second-place finisher  Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador ,
of the Democratic Revolution Party, or PRD.  In addition to fixing up Acapulco, where Sinatra and his
Rat Pack hung out during the 1950s, Pena Nieto’s pledges include
building a passenger port in Puerto Vallarta, highways in the
state of Veracruz and a dam in the state of San Luis Potosi.
With a government debt burden that’s less than half that of the
U.S. and  Germany , Pena Nieto has room in the budget to carry out
his plans, according to Hernandez.  Europe’s Crisis  Pena Nieto, a 45-year-old former governor of the state of
Mexico, also promised during the campaign to increase tax
collection, boost formal employment and allow more private
investment in the oil industry.  Eduardo Sanchez, a party spokesman, didn’t respond to a
phone call seeking comment.  The Mexican economy expanded 4.6 percent in the first
quarter from a year earlier, the fastest pace since the third
quarter of 2010.  ICA bonds are also gaining as investors move money back
into higher-yielding assets after European leaders reached an
agreement on June 29 that alleviated concern the region’s banks
will fail and deepen the debt crisis, said  Guillermo Rodriguez ,
who helps manage $5.5 billion of debt at Corp. Actinver SAB.  “I’ve seen more demand,” Rodriguez said in a telephone
interview from Mexico City.  ICA’s Debt  ICA’s potential gains from increased spending by Pena Nieto
are in part offset by a projected slide in expenditures under
President  Felipe Calderon  until he hands over power in December,
said Nuria Jorba, a credit analyst at Union Bancaire Privee. The
company’s rising debt levels will also limit gains in the bonds,
she said.  “It will continue to have significant leverage,” Jorba
said in a telephone interview from Zurich. “If the government
has this program of increasing the infrastructure expansion, the
company will not benefit until next year.”  ICA, based in  Mexico  City, said in its first-quarter report
that revenue growth would slow in the second half of the year
because there will only be “a moderate level of new contract
awards” during the period.  The company’s debt increased 2 percent in the first quarter
to 50.9 billion pesos ($3.8 billion) compared with the end of
2011. Net debt, or total debt minus cash, rose 4 percent as
total cash fell 7 percent to 10.1 billion pesos.  Yield Spread  The extra yield investors demand to own Mexican government
dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries rose three basis points
to 201 basis points at 7:10 a.m. in Mexico City, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global index.  The peso appreciated 0.2 percent to 13.3062 per  U.S.
dollar . It’s up 4.7 percent this year, the most among the 16
most-traded currencies.  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years rose one basis point to 126 basis points yesterday,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Credit-default swaps
pay the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying
securities or cash equivalent if the issuer fails to comply with
debt agreements.  Yields on Mexican interbank rate futures contracts due in
December, known as TIIE, were little changed at 4.75 percent.  Infrastructure Law  Mexico’s infrastructure spending rose to an estimated 5
percent of gross domestic product last year from 3.2 percent in
2000, according to Federico Patino, the investment banking
director of Banobras, a government development bank. He said a
public-private partnership law, signed by Calderon earlier this
year in a bid to provide greater legal security for investment,
will help push infrastructure spending to at least 6 percent of
GDP in the coming years.  “The trend will continue,” Patino, whose bank specializes
in financing infrastructure projects, said in a telephone
interview from Mexico City. “We’ll see more spending by the
government, but above all, we’ll see more private sector
participation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  