-- Singh Adviser Warns Against Foreign Investor Tax Changes
-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 2012-07-06T04:47:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/singh-adviser-warns-against-portfolio-investor-tax-changes-1-.html
India  should refrain from changing
the way foreign investors in stocks and bonds are taxed, a key
adviser to Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  said, as the nation
prepares rules to clamp down on  tax avoidance .  “We should clarify that it is not the intention to change
the tax treatment of bona fide foreign institutional
investors,”  Montek Singh Ahluwalia , 68, deputy chairman of
India’s Planning Commission, said in an interview in New Delhi
yesterday. “I hope they will clarify it in a way in which FIIs
will be reassured that their investment is welcome.”  Prime Minister Singh has made reviving investment in India
a priority after taking charge of the finance ministry on June
26 with  growth  at a nine-year low. Ahluwalia also said he hopes
India will “very soon” allow foreign companies to open
supermarkets selling multiple brands, an industry closed off to
overseas businesses and one that Singh is trying to open up.  The prime minister decided to lead the finance ministry
after  Pranab Mukherjee  resigned to vie for the presidency.
Mukherjee outlined steps to tackle tax avoidance, the so-called
General Anti-Avoidance Rule, or GAAR, in the budget in March,
before retreating on the proposals in May by delaying
implementation until 2013 to salvage investor confidence.  The  BSE India Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  of stocks extended gains
yesterday after Ahluwalia’s comments before ending up 0.4
percent. It fell 0.4 percent as of 10:00 a.m. in Mumbai today,
while the rupee weakened 0.9 percent to 55.43 per dollar. The
currency has declined 19.7 percent against the dollar in the
past 12 months.  Assuaging Investors  Ahluwalia is seeking to “to assuage foreign investors,”
said  Jagannadham Thunuguntla , a strategist at SMC  Global
Securities Ltd. (GLBS)  in New Delhi. “It is an effort to find a middle
ground while introducing the tax rules.”  India plans to issue a clarification this month keeping
overseas investors of equity and bond derivative instruments out
of the purview of Indian taxes, two government officials with
direct knowledge of the matter said, declining to be identified
citing rules. The so-called participatory notes are derivatives
that allow foreigners not registered with the nation’s market
regulator to invest in local stocks and bonds.  The government aims to revive plans to allow companies
including  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  to set up retail stores after
protests from allies and opposition parties prompted it to defer
the rules in December, Ahluwalia said. Singh may allow state
governments to decide whether to implement the rule, he said.  ‘Consensus Building’  “We have done some consensus building since” December,
said Ahluwalia, one of the top bureaucrats in the  finance
ministry  when Singh opened up  India’s economy  in 1991 as finance
minister. Under India’s federal structure, states are
responsible for issuing licenses for retail stores.  Ahluwalia said the government had set up monitoring
mechanisms to ensure faster implementation of road, port and
power projects. The measures will help boost economic growth and
increase foreign investment flows, he said.  Gross domestic  product  rose 5.3 percent in the three months
to March 31 from a year earlier, the least since 2003. Ahluwalia,
who last year set a 9 percent target for economic growth in the
next five years, estimates GDP to expand 8 percent to 8.5
percent as the global recovery falters.  Inflation accelerated to 7.55 percent in May, the fastest
pace in the BRIC group of largest  emerging markets  that also
includes Brazil, Russia and  China . Higher food prices and more
expensive imports because of the weaker rupee have contributed
to  jumps in living costs .  Rupee Drop  Ahluwalia said the rupee had corrected after over
depreciating and a “little” fall in the currency should be
positive. The rupee has climbed about 3 percent since Singh took
charge of the finance ministry.  India’s current  account , the broadest measure of trade,
widened to a record $21.7 billion in the three months ended
March. The widening of the deficit was due to a surge in gold
imports, which have slowed after the government imposed an
additional tax on shipments, Ahluwalia said.  “India’s economic prospects will support foreign capital
inflow needed in order to finance the deficit, without putting
pressure on the rupee,” Ahluwalia said. “The current account
deficit this year won’t be as bad as last year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Unni Krishnan in  New Delhi  at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  