-- Skating Rinks to Yoga Are Latest Ploys for Hotel Revenue
-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 2012-07-05T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/skating-rinks-to-yoga-are-latest-ploys-for-hotel-revenue.html
A new high-end hotel in  Manhattan ’s
Union Square will have either an art gallery, doctor’s office or
yoga center, part of a plan to generate more than 10 percent of
the property’s revenue through sources beyond its 175 rooms.  “We’ve done as much as we could on the cost-cutting
side,” said Neil Shah, president and chief operating officer of
 Hersha Hospitality Trust (HT) , which will own and manage the hotel.
“Now it’s time to use our real estate and our position to help
create profits.”  As development of new properties climbs, hotel companies
are building spaces that will bring in new streams of revenue.
Lodging owners such as Hersha and  Hyatt Hotels Corp. (H)  are
building meeting rooms that can be repurposed for nighttime
cooking parties, locating lobbies on higher levels to
accommodate ground-floor retail and flooding lawns to create ice
rinks that charge for skate rentals.  Growth in lodging construction is expected to outpace
building in other commercial real estate sectors through the end
of next year. Hotel development is likely to increase 10 percent
this year and almost 20 percent in 2013, the  American Institute
of Architects  said earlier this year. The group will publish an
updated report later this month.  While hotels have long been home to bars and conference
space, milking every inch of real estate to increase earnings at
new projects is increasingly important as owners move away from
the expense-slashing of the last three years to focus on revenue
not directly dependent upon room rentals, according to  David Loeb , a Robert W. Baird & Co. analyst in  Milwaukee .  ‘More Significant’  Hersha, based in Harrisburg,  Pennsylvania , has about a half
dozen hotels under development. Non-room revenue at hotels the
real estate investment trust owns, including such  New York 
properties as Hotel 373 Fifth Avenue and Duane Street Hotel
Tribeca, has risen to about 7 percent of total revenue from
about 2 percent three years ago, according to Shah. That will
probably climb to about 10 percent when Hersha’s hotels under
construction open -- and an even “more significant” increase
in profits, he said.  Hersha agreed a year ago to buy the Hyatt Union Square,
being built at 13th Street and Fourth Avenue, for $104.1
million, or $595,000 a key. The REIT expects to complete the
purchase of the hotel, with three dining venues and a rooftop
lounge, when construction is finished later this year. It plans
to choose retail tenants closer to the opening, basing its
decisions on rental income and neighborhood demands, Shah said.  Artist’s Salon  In  Washington , Hersha is completing the redevelopment of
Capitol Hill Hotel, including the addition of 6,000 square feet
(560 square meters) of salon and club space for guests as well
as local residents, businesses and government officials,
according to Shah. The hotel also rents space in the property’s
salon to a local artist.  In March, Hersha completed the purchase of Philadelphia’s
Rittenhouse Hotel, where the company plans to convert the
“underperforming” bar into a venue that locals will be able to
rent for special events, Shah said.  During and in the immediate aftermath of the U.S.
recession, hotel operators focused on cutting costs as  travel
demand  declined. Revenue per available room, an industry measure
of occupancies and rates, slumped 24 percent in 2009 at luxury
hotels, which were hurt the worst of any industry segment.  Reductions spanned from spending less on buffets to
lowering swimming-pool temperatures, Andrew Cosslett, former
chief executive officer of  InterContinental Hotels Group Plc (IHG) ,
said in an August 2009 interview. Now, lodging companies are
focused again on increasing revenue.  Starwood Renovation  Last month,  Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide Inc. (HOT) 
announced plans for the $100 million renovation of 10 W hotels
in  North America , including locations in New York and  San
Francisco . The revamp will entail the reworking of public spaces
such as lobbies, bars and nightclubs, with a focus on “drawing
in locals,” the hotelier said in a June 4 statement.  “Maximizing every piece of real estate, especially at new
hotels, is a growing trend as institutional and public ownership
of hotels in major urban markets is on the rise,” Loeb, the
Baird analyst, said in a telephone interview.  For new, full-service hotels in the midscale to high-end
categories that opened from 2001 to 2005, “other income,” such
as sales from retail shops and other businesses not operated by
the hotel, was almost 36 percent higher last year than for
hotels built from 1980 to 1999, according to Boulder, Colorado-
based STR Analytics, a unit of hotel-data provider  STR Global .  ‘Revenue Efficiency’  “Newer hotels were built with more revenue efficiency in
mind, and space that might have been wasted in earlier-
constructed hotels was replaced in newer hotels by additional
outlets and revenue-creating facilities,”  Carter Wilson , a
director at STR Analytics, said in a telephone interview.  While rooftop bars have been around for decades, they only
recently have become a significant source of additional income,
particularly at urban hotels in such cities as New York,
according to a December study by  Jones Lang  LaSalle Hotels, part
of Chicago-based broker  Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. (JLL)   In  New York City , there are 35 properties ranging from
midscale to luxury with a rooftop venue, many of which were
recently added, Jones Lang said. Such businesses may produce
revenue of as much as $120 per square foot in a month with high
demand and “tend to be profitable venues,” Jones Lang said in
the report. That compares to $40 a square foot of room revenue
during a peak-season month at an upscale hotel in a large city,
according to Amelia Lim, a Jones Lang executive vice president.  ‘Under-Used’  “What we’ve been seeing in rooftop bars and other
additional revenue-producing venues is the use of under-used
real estate,” she said in a telephone interview.  Hyatt’s  Andaz 5th Avenue  boutique hotel at Bryant Park
features a meeting venue on the second floor, called Apartment
2E, that resembles residential space with a fully equipped open
kitchen in its center, a bar and an outdoor courtyard. During
the day, its individual rooms are used for business meetings,
and in the evening the entire space can be rented for private
cooking parties.  Strategic Hotels & Resorts Inc. (BEE) , a REIT with stakes in
luxury properties, has a goal of getting as much as 50 percent
of revenue from sources other than rooms at each of its hotels,
Chief Executive Officer Laurence Geller said.  The Chicago-based company has gone so far as to flood
outdoor lawns and convert them into ice rinks at a couple of its
hotels, allowing it to charge for skate rentals and lure more
diners to its food venues. The REIT, whose assets include  Hotel
del Coronado  in  San Diego , also leases walls inside and outside
its hotels for advertising and rents unused space on rooftops to
telecommunications companies for antennas and other equipment.  Higher Returns  “We look at our real estate as a mixed-use development,
where rooms have become merely an anchor tenant, like in
shopping malls,” Geller said in a telephone interview. “It’s
been increasing across the industry as people realize they need
higher returns on their hotels because hotels are expensive to
run and not as profitable as they used to be.”  Of Strategic’s 20 hotels, five are back to pre-recession
profitability levels, he said.  “Today you have to justify why you have a garden instead
of something else that could make money,” Geller said.  While additional revenue streams tend to boost the bottom
line, owners need to be careful to not disrupt the look of a
hotel, according to Bruce Baltin, a Los Angeles-based senior
vice president at PKF Consulting USA, which advises hotel owners
and investors on management, acquisitions and dispositions.  ‘Brand Recognition’  “What you don’t want to do is put a Burger King into a
luxury hotel,” he said. “So coherency is probably the main
challenge. You don’t want your hotel to feel like a giant food
court, but still make sure it has brand recognition.”  Given that the hotel industry’s recovery is likely to slow,
the focus on additional sources of revenue will only intensify,
Baltin said. Growth of average quarterly revenue per available
room, an industry measure of occupancies and rates, is expected
to decline to 4.9 percent during the second half of 2012, down
from an estimated 6.9 percent during the first six months of the
year, according to a June 20 PKF report.  “What we’re seeing is a more active pursuit for
alternative revenue streams,” said Shah, Hersha’s president.
“It’s really picked up and has become much more of an integral
part of our thinking today than it has been in the last several
years. It’s about diversifying and not putting all your eggs in
one basket.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in  Los Angeles  at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  