-- Sofiproteol Leads French Group Offering to Buy Doux Assets
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2012-07-05T17:43:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/sofiproteol-leads-french-group-offering-to-buy-doux-assets-1-.html
Sofiproteol SA,  France ’s largest
oilseed crusher, is leading a group of French companies seeking
to buy the assets of Doux SA,  Europe ’s largest poultry
processor, said Philippe Tillous-Borde, adviser to Sofiproteol’s
chairman.  Partners include agricultural cooperatives Terrena and
Triskalia, closely held companies Duc and Glon Sanders, as well
as poultry processors Tilly-Sabco and  LDC SA (LOUP) , Tillous-Borde said
in a conference call today. He declined to give the value of the
offer or say how the bid will be structured.  “It’s really a coordinated offer, it’s not a consortium
with a holding that will take over everything together,”
Tillous-Borde said. The offer was made to Doux’s court-appointed
administrator today, the board adviser said.  Doux was placed under court administration on June 1 by the
court of Quimper in Brittany. The company had sales of 1.41
billion euros ($1.75 billion) and earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortization of 137.4 million euros in 2010,
the most recent year for which Doux published figures on its
website.  The offer seeks to bring all of Doux’s businesses under
management of the companies making the offer, Tillous-Borde
said. The group is seeking to buy assets, and doesn’t plan to
renegotiate Doux’s debt with creditors including  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,
according to the adviser.  Doux’s assets in  Brazil  are not part of the offer,
according to Tillous-Borde.  JBS SA (JBSS3)  said in May it is leasing
Brazilian plants from Doux and has an option to buy them.  With the offer, the companies are seeking to structure the
French poultry industry and improve its competitiveness,
according to a statement by Sofiproteol. France is the European
Union’s second-largest poultry exporter after the Netherlands,
International Trade Centre data show.  Poultry imports by France have more than doubled in the
past 10 years and now account for 42 percent of domestic
consumption, Sofiproteol said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  