-- Soros-Backed MediaV Sees Sales Jump as Chinese Cut Costs
-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 2012-07-05T07:55:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/soros-backed-mediav-sees-sales-jump-as-chinese-cut-costs.html
MediaV Holding Co., a Chinese online
advertising company backed by billionaire  George Soros , expects
sales to jump as much as 80 percent this year as a slowing
economy prompts more customers to use its services to cut costs.  Revenue may rise to about 900 million yuan ($142 million)
this year,  Willy Yang , chief executive officer at Shanghai-based
MediaV, said in a phone interview yesterday. Slowing industry
growth this year is favoring the part of MediaV’s business that
helps smaller advertisers with limited budgets, he said.  MediaV buys advertising spots from online portals including
those of  Sina Corp. (SINA) , Sohu.com Inc. and  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700) ,
and resells to clients to allow multiple companies to share the
same space. Yang, whose company won an investment from Soros
Fund Management LLC last year, expects China’s online
advertising market to post “a small-scale recovery” in 2013.  China’s economy  “won’t be too good” in 2012, Yang said.
“That’s not a bad thing for our targeted-marketing business,”
he said. “In China, the potential of the advertising market for
small-to-medium businesses is still not totally explored.”  Soros Fund Management’s Quantum Strategic Partners were
among investors in a $50 million financing round for MediaV last
year, according to the advertising company’s website. MediaV’s
clients include  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)  and  Suning Appliance Co. (002024) ,
and about 300 Chinese e-commerce companies, Yang said.  Soros had net worth of $21.9 billion, ranking him 20th in
the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index  of the world’s richest people.  ‘Slow Start’  Sina’s advertising revenue, mainly from sales of display
ads, rose 9 percent to $78.5 million in the first quarter, the
New York-listed company reported in May. That compares with the
27 percent ad sales jump in 2011.  Sohu’s brand advertising revenue grew 7 percent to $61
million in the first-quarter, the Beijing-based company reported
in April. Ad business at China’s third-largest search engine,
“got off to a slow start” in 2012 amid “softening
macroeconomic conditions,” the company said at the time.  MediaV helps advertisers focus spending on specific groups
of users, Yang said. Demand for such programs is increasing as
advertisers’ budgets become more constrained, he said.  Still, Sina may be able to double its  online advertising
sales  within two years as clients boost spending on its Twitter-
like Weibo site, Yang said. Ad sales on the Weibo site may match
revenue generated from Sina’s web portal business within two
years, he said.  Sina and Tencent are leading the race to increase ad sales
based on demand for social-networking services among Web users
in China, according to Yang.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in  Hong Kong  at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  