-- Spain Rescue Seen Worse Than Cure as Hospitals Make Cuts
-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e   a n d   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2012-07-05T22:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/spain-rescue-seen-worse-than-cure-as-hospitals-make-cuts-health.html
For some cancer patients, Spain’s
debt crisis means living on borrowed medicine.  Virgen de la Luz hospital in the rural province of Cuenca
turned away two women with lung and breast cancer in May after
 Roche Holding AG (ROG)  stopped supplying tumor fighter Herceptin,
according to documents obtained by Bloomberg News. The women got
the drug after a 24-hour wait thanks to a hastily-brokered deal
to borrow it from another clinic.  To rescue Cuenca and the rest of Spain’s health system,
which sank into debt alongside the regional governments that
operate it, the state arranged an infusion of guaranteed loans
and demanded 7 billion euros ($8.8 billion) in cost cuts. Yet
doctors and patients warn the prescription for cutbacks may
cause more pain than the budgetary malaise it was meant to cure.  “The situation is not going to change,” said Jose Andres
Guijarro, a gynecologist at  Virgen de la Luz  who helped found a
citizens group protesting cuts at the hospital. “If we didn’t
have money to pay before, we won’t have it now.”  Patients and hospitals across  Spain  are wrestling with the
same dilemma. Even as old debts get paid off -- the country’s 17
regions ran up some 12 billion euros in unpaid health bills
through last year -- new ones are piling up. As a result, the
need to break the cycle with spending cuts threatens to redefine
the very notion of  Europe ’s tradition of socialized medicine:
how best to treat patients, not how to make ends meet.  “As long as it is state-funded, the health system will
always run a deficit,” said Miguel Llorens, financial director
for  Hospital Provincial de Castellon . Roche stopped taking his
IOUs as well, and he says he pays the Swiss drug giant in cash.  Solar Panels  Tangled in a debt crisis that left him requesting a 100
billion-euro European Union bailout to help banks reeling from a
real-estate collapse in its fifth year, Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  sliced 7 billion euros out of the health system as part of
about 45 billion euros of cost cuts and tax hikes.  The spending cuts come in exchange for 35 billion euros in
syndicated bank loans the central government arranged on behalf
of town halls and regions, which pay for health care.  The hope is that the bailout will help get the flow of
drugs moving again. Roche says its Spanish creditors paid their
debts last week. That put medicine distribution “back to normal
throughout the country,” including in Castellon and Cuenca, the
Basel, Switzerland-based company said in an e-mailed statement.  Still, Llorens says things aren’t back to normal on the
ground. When a patient needs Herceptin or another Roche
medicine, he sends the company a pre-order. Roche bills him.
Only after the bank transfer clears does he get the product.  One Solution  The square-bearded former nurse says he expects the credit
agreement with Roche to resume in September. That will only
solve one of his many worries, though: he must find about 3
million euros of cost cuts this year to meet his 85 million-euro
budget. So he has mounted solar panels on the roof to save on
electricity, endorsed salary reductions -- including a 20
percent pay cut for himself -- and left retired doctors’
positions open to trim his payroll.  Llorens, who started working at Castellon as a nurse when
he was 18, says while hospitals need more funds, they must learn
to become more efficient. Before the loans, the average hospital
was paying bills almost a year and a half late, industry group
 Farmaindustria  estimates.  The spending cuts are the only way forward, or else unpaid
bills will start to pile up again, according to Gloria
Rodriguez, the regional government liaison for the  Spanish
Federation of Healthcare Technology Companies .  The debt crisis helped put one in 10 members of her
organization out of business, she said in an interview. Spain’s
regions “were spending happily,” according to Rodriguez. “Now
they have seen they can’t finance it.”  Band-Aid  Rajoy’s measures will mean longer hours and less pay for
doctors and nurses, and higher costs for patients accustomed to
spending little to nothing to visit a physician. It’s fair to
call the regional bailout a band-aid for bigger structural
wounds in the health system, said Kaushal Shah, an analyst for
Business Monitor International in  London .  “The situation is far from over,” she said.  Despite its debt, Spain spent less per capita on health in
2010 than  France ,  Italy ,  Germany , or the U.K., according to the
 World Health Organization . The budget demands may erode the
fundamentals of the system, said Carmen Torralba, mayor of
Sotorribas, a 900-resident cluster of villages outside the city
of Cuenca.  “We’re actually talking about something very basic, which
is that someone who makes 1,000 euros a month can have free,
quality care,” she said.  Pregnant and Worried  The spending cuts, especially in this rural area at the
eastern edge of  Don Quixote ’s tilting ground on the Spanish high
central plain, risk leaving some people in isolated areas
without any access to health facilities and have sapped
confidence in the system.  Nine months pregnant and waiting in the hot sun outside
Virgen de la Luz hospital, Trini Romero says she’s afraid
doctors might put their finances ahead of her baby’s health.  She and her husband, Manuel Rabadan, rushed the 100
kilometers from their village on the other side of the hills to
the hospital in an ambulance, after her doctor had warned that
her water might be slowly leaking out. When the same thing
happened with her son four years ago, the hospital induced
labor, she said.  This time, with no sign of leakage and a day to go before
her due date, Romero said the hospital told her to find her way
back to the village. Her husband lit cigarette after cigarette
as the couple waited for a friend to take them home.  “They’ve gone too far,” he said. “The situation is
really bad.”  Life-Saver  Guijarro, the gynecologist, says budget cuts have left him
unable to get a drug used in cesarean sections to avoid
haemorrhage and special vacuum pumps for difficult births.  Virgin de la Luz also ran out of Roche’s cancer drug
Herceptin for five patients scheduled to receive the treatment,
according to an internal letter from the chief of oncology dated
June 6 and obtained by Bloomberg News. With Roche refusing to
deliver the drug, the hospital turned to other facilities for a
loan, according to the letter. Two refused. A third agreed,
resulting in a 24-hour delay because the medicine had to be
transported a long distance, the letter said.  A lung cancer patient and a breast cancer patient made
written complaints after being turned away by the hospital on
May 29. Though the delays were not life threatening, both
patients need the drug at regular intervals to stay alive, their
doctor said.  700 Days Late  Roche stopped shipments because the hospital was more than
700 days late in its payments, according to an oncologist who
treated some of the patients and declined to be named, citing
fear of retaliation by local authorities. The hospital has also
encouraged staff to use cheaper drugs for cancer patients or
send them to other facilities, the oncologist said.  The Castille-La Mancha health services acknowledged “an
isolated short delay” in cancer treatments at Virgen de La Luz
in an emailed response to questions. The cost cutting measures
“are only aimed at improving efficiency and don’t affect health
care quality,” they said.  Roche may not have been the only drugmaker to clamp down on
deliveries.  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN)  and  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ’s Janssen unit
have also required cash payment from at least one hospital,
according to an official who declined to be named. Spokespeople
at both drugmakers said the companies don’t have a policy of
requiring cash payments in Spain.  Boom and Bust  About an hour’s ride from Madrid by high-speed train,
Virgen de la Luz is the only hospital in a province a little
smaller than the state of  New Jersey . At the peak of the Spanish
real estate boom in 2007, the regional government of Castille-La
Mancha promised to build a second hospital in Cuenca. Last year,
as hospital drug debts spiked 89 percent to 408 million euros,
regional President Maria Dolores Cospedal said the project would
need private funds to proceed.  Now, not only is there no new hospital. The existing one
has had to close one of its floors, cut staff and add beds to
rooms. And services to patients in the province’s far-flung
villages are being curtailed, which may increase their reliance
on Cuenca’s sole facility.  The regional government wants to cut the traveling doctor
and pharmacist who visit the eight villages that make up
Sotorribas once a week to give checkups and prescriptions to the
largely elderly population, mayor Torralba said. Only one of the
villages has a pharmacy, and the sole bus connecting the hamlets
to Cuenca runs three times a week.  ‘Cutting the Essential’  In  Madrid , the latest round of cost cuts come on top of
earlier efforts to pare services, said Jose Soto, general
manager of Madrid’s  Hospital Clinico San Carlos . Soto’s hospital
employs more than 5,000 people and accounts for about a tenth of
the region’s health services.  Clinico San Carlos already suffered a 10 percent budget cut
in the past two years, said Soto, who has seen the hospital
shrink to about 1,000 beds from 1,650 during his 18-year tenure.
In July, he’ll be forced to scale back by as much as another 20
percent.  “So far we’ve managed to weather budget cuts with some
adjustments,” Soto said in an interview. “Now we are going to
feel those austerity measures much more deeply.”  Ghost Airport  Last year, almost 40 percent of patients in Spain waited
more than 60 days to consult a specialist, according to data
published on June 28 by the Health Ministry. The number of
patients waiting for surgery increased 17 percent in December
from a year ago and the average delay rose to 73 days from 65.  If Cuenca shows what balancing the budget may mean for
patients, the train ride east to the coastal region of  Valencia 
shows how the overspending came to be in the first place. A
brand new airport that cost about 150 million euros to build in
Castellon and was completed at the start of 2011 has yet to see
a single passenger or airplane.  “They spent what they didn’t have on what was
superfluous,” Spanish novelist Elvira Lindo  wrote  in Madrid’s
El Pais newspaper on June 20. “Now all they can think about is
cutting what is essential.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net ;
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  