-- Buffett, Zuckerberg Lead Guest List for Sun Valley Event
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2012-07-08T16:07:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/sun-valley-mogul-gathering-includes-buffett-zuckerberg.html
(Corrects year in fourth paragraph of July 6 story.)  Billionaires  Warren Buffett , Bill
Gates and Mark Zuckerberg lead the roster of executives invited
to Allen & Co.’s annual media conference in Sun Valley, Idaho,
next week, according to a guest list obtained by Bloomberg News.  Google Inc. (GOOG)  Chairman Eric Schmidt, Amazon.com Inc. Chief
Executive Officer Jeff Bezos and  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  CEO Tim Cook are
also invited, according to the document, as is  News Corp. (NWSA) 
Chairman and CEO Rupert Murdoch.  The exclusive gathering, sponsored by investment bank Allen
& Co. since 1983, provides an intimate setting for media
executives to discuss deals and reflect on the industry while
enjoying family bike rides or fly fishing. Some of media’s
largest buyouts were hatched or moved forward at Sun Valley,
including  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s 2011 purchase of NBC Universal.  The retreat also attracts elected officials. In 2010,
Newark, New Jersey, Mayor Cory Booker met Zuckerberg, the
founder, chairman and CEO of social-networking website  Facebook
Inc. (FB)  Zuckerberg later donated $100 million to Newark schools.  Both men are on the list this year, as well as New York
City Mayor  Michael Bloomberg , the founder of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  Buffett, who attended last year, has been acquiring
newspapers, betting that community-focused publications can
thrive in markets where there is little competition.  Murdoch, who recently announced a plan to spin off his
company’s publishing division, is expected to attend, along with
sons Lachlan and James. Chief Operating Officer Chase Carey and
Joel Klein, the former Justice Department lawyer who now heads
up the company’s education division, are also invited.  New Attendees  Bobby Kotick, CEO of video-game publisher  Activision
Blizzard Inc. (ATVI) , is also invited to the event.  Vivendi SA (VIV)  is
seeking a buyer for its $8.3 billion majority stake in
Activision, a person familiar with the situation said last week.  Sun Valley  was the setting for early discussions of a
merger between AOL and  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) , and  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s
1996 purchase of CapitalCities/ABC was announced weeks after the
retreat.  With the shift of movies, television and publishing to
online and mobile outlets, the lines between media and
technology companies has become blurred. At Sun Valley, Silicon
Valley is well represented.  Technology investors Marc Andreessen and Peter Thiel are
also on the list, along with Twitter Inc. CEO Dick Costolo,
 Yahoo Inc. (YHOO)  interim CEO Ross Levinsohn and  Akamai Technologies
Inc. (AKAM)  CEO Paul Sagan, who was recently in contention to lead the
New York Times Co.  Other Guests  Other invited guests include  CBS Corp. (CBS)  CEO  Leslie Moonves ;
 IAC/InterActiveCorp (IACI)  Chairman Barry Diller;  AOL Inc. (AOL)  CEO Tim Armstrong; Time Warner Inc. CEO Jeff Bewkes;  Viacom Inc. (VIAB)  CEO
Philippe Dauman; Time Warner Cable CEO Glenn Britt; and
 Washington Post Co. (WPO)  CEO Donald Graham.  Sony Corp. (6758)  CEO Kazuo Hirai and Chairman Howard Stringer are
listed as well as  Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd. (005930)  COO Jae-Yong Lee.  Hollywood executives include  DreamWorks Animation SKG Inc. (DWA) 
CEO Jeffrey Katzenberg; Creative Artists Agency Inc. managing
partner Bryan Lourd; Universal Studios President Ron Meyer; and
Paramount Pictures CEO Brad Grey.  The agenda and guest list for the conference aren’t made
public. While the press isn’t typically invited to attend the
closed-door events, reporters stay in Sun Valley to talk with
the executives.  Mandy Tavakol, executive director of the Allen & Co.
conference, didn’t respond to a phone call seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in  New York  at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  