-- Australia Seeks Deeper Aussie-Yuan Market as Trade Surges
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t   a n d   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2012-07-05T02:51:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/swan-says-australia-seeks-to-deepen-aussie-yuan-market.html
Australia is seeking to deepen
trading between the local dollar and the  yuan  as demand for
commodities drives exports to  China  to record highs.  The yuan’s internationalization “is clearly in the
interests of Australian businesses and the broader Australian
economy,” Treasurer  Wayne Swan , who will co-host a forum on the
matter in  Hong Kong  next week, said today in a statement e-
mailed from his office in Canberra. “Both governments are very
keen to see us deepen and broaden this important market.”  China remained Australia’s top trading partner in May, with
transactions climbing to A$11.1 billion ($11.4 billion), the
most since October, according to figures released today by the
Canberra-based statistics bureau. Japan last month started to
use its currency in direct trading with China.  The so-called Aussie dollar, the world’s fifth-most traded
currency, bought $1.0257 as of 12:20 p.m. in Sydney from $1.0276
yesterday. It has climbed 46 percent against the greenback since
the start of 2009, the most among more than 150 currencies
tracked by Bloomberg. The Australian dollar surged as demand
from China and India for the nation’s resources set off a record
mining boom.  The People’s Bank of China didn’t immediately respond to
faxed questions seeking comment.  The central banks of China and Australia signed a A$30
billion ($31 billion) currency swap agreement to ensure the
availability of capital between the trading partners, the
 Reserve Bank  of Australia said in March.  Commodities Trade  “I would see these developments as natural given the fact
that China is an increasingly large importer of commodities,”
said  Robert Rennie , chief currency strategist at Westpac Banking
Corp. in Sydney. “Australia is a very much up there in terms of
being a key supplier of commodities to China.”  Exports to China climbed to A$7.3 billion in May, the
statistics bureau report showed. That’s the most ever in data
compiled by Bloomberg dating back to 1988.  Chinese Imports  China’s  imports  from the South Pacific nation were the
sixth-biggest among its trade partners in the 12 months ended
May 31, averaging $7.3 billion a month, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Japan, South Korea and the U.S. comprised
the top three countries, the data showed.  “Australia stands a very good chance, given its two-way
trade with China,” said  Richard Grace , Sydney-based chief
currency strategist and head of international economics at
 Commonwealth Bank of Australia , in reference to a possible
direct trading agreement.  “It will help the exchange-rate implications become just a
little more transparent,” Grace said. “Participants would be
able to monitor the Aussie-yuan cross with a little more
certainty. For the purposes of exporters and importers, it may
reduce the level of complexity somewhat.”  The announcement of a currency swap deal between the RBA
and the PBOC in March followed the decision by Chinese
authorities in November to allow convertibility between the
Aussie and yuan in the  interbank market  in China, Australia’s
central bank said.  China will promote convertibility of the yuan capital
account this year and expand investment channels for its
foreign-exchange reserves,  Yi Gang , head of the nation’s State
Administration of Foreign Exchange, wrote in a report last
month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net ;
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  