-- Sweden’s Tax-Paying Prostitutes Win Right to Paid Sick Leave
-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 2012-07-05T14:39:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/sweden-s-tax-paying-prostitutes-win-right-to-paid-sick-leave.html
Swedish prostitutes won the right to
claim benefits, including sick days and parental leave, bringing
their social security closer to that of other taxpayers.  Sex workers will be able to claim sickness benefit of about
80 percent of annual income of a maximum of 330,000 kronor
($47,460), the  Swedish Social Insurance Agency  said. The benefit
will run for as much as a year for any illness lasting at least
14 days. For the self-employed, the first seven days are unpaid.  “As long as sex workers pay their taxes, they should have
the same access to sick-leave benefits and parental leave as
anybody else,” Joakim Jarnryd, a director at the Stockholm-
based organization, said by telephone today. “We don’t make any
moral judgments.”  In Sweden, selling sex is legal and prostitutes can
register to pay taxes using euphemisms, which qualify them for
benefits. Even so, buying their services isn’t legal in the
Nordic country and customers run the risk of fines or
imprisonment for as long as six months.  Sweden ’s sex-purchase ban dates from 1999 and neighboring
 Norway  passed a similar law in 2008. While prostitution hasn’t
been banned in Denmark and  Finland , it isn’t regulated.
Unemployment benefits and pensions aren’t within the purview of
the Swedish agency.  The organization decided to extend the benefit to
prostitutes after examining the matter last month, Jarnryd said.
It had resolved cases in 2003 and 2010 before the review. The
number of people seeking the benefit will probably be low as
“very few taxpayers have registered as sex workers,” he said.  Swedish Justice Minister Beatrice Ask is preparing a
proposal for parliament this year that may include increasing
the maximum time of imprisonment for buying sexual services to
as much as one year, her spokeswoman Anna Erhardt said by
telephone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  