-- Most Swiss Stocks Fall as ECB Outlook Offsets U.S. Data
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2012-07-05T15:47:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/swiss-stocks-rise-before-ecb-meeting-nestle-climbs.html
Most  Swiss stocks  dropped as European
Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said he sees risks to the
euro-area economic outlook, overshadowing better-than-forecast
U.S. jobs reports.  Adecco SA (ADEN) , the world’s biggest supplier of temporary
workers, declined 2.2 percent.  Logitech International SA (LOGN) , the
largest maker of computer mice, slipped 1.3 percent.  Barry
Callebaut AG (BARN)  fell 2 percent after the biggest maker of bulk
chocolate posted sales that missed analysts’ estimates.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  rose less than 0.1 percent to
6,202.32 at the close of trading in Zurich. Thirteen stocks
declined and seven rose even after the ECB and the People’s Bank
of China cut their benchmark borrowing costs and the  Bank of
England  boosted the size of its asset-purchase program. The
gauge has  rallied  2.2 percent this week, extending the 2012
advance to 4.5 percent. The Swiss Performance Index was also
little changed percent today.  “The ECB,  China , and BOE news today may have already been
baked into the cake over the past few trading sessions,” said
Serge Berger, a trader at Blue Oak Advisors LLC in Zurich. “The
central banks gave the market what it wanted, which is likely
why the investors are selling the news.”  The ECB cut  interest rates  to a record low and said it
won’t pay anything on overnight deposits. Policy makers lowered
the main refinancing rate to 0.75 percent from 1 percent, as
predicted by 49 of 64 economists in a Bloomberg News  survey , and
cut its deposit rate to zero from 0.25 percent.  Speaking after the decision was announced, ECB President
Draghi said some “downside risks to the euro-area economic
outlook have materialized” and “economic growth in the euro
area continues to remain weak.”  China Rates  China cut benchmark  interest rates  for the second time in a
month and allowed banks to offer bigger discounts on their
lending costs. The one-year lending rate will fall by 31 basis
points and the one-year deposit rate will drop by 25 basis
points effective tomorrow, the People’s Bank of China said.
Banks can offer loans of as much as 30 percent less than
benchmark rates.  The Bank of England’s Monetary Policy Committee raised its
asset-purchase target by 50 billion pounds ($78 billion) to 375
billion pounds. Thirty out of 41 economists had forecast the
move in a Bloomberg survey. Policy makers also left their
benchmark rate at a record low of 0.5 percent today.  In the U.S., a report showed that companies added more
workers than forecast in June, while fewer Americans than
estimated filed claims for  unemployment benefits  last week.  U.S. Economy  U.S. companies added 176,000 people last month following a
revised 136,000 gain the prior month that was higher than
initially estimated, according to ADP Employer Services.
Applications for jobless benefits decreased by 14,000 in the
week ended June 30 to 374,000, the fewest since mid May, Labor
Department figures showed.  “ADP data from the U.S. were positive,” said Blue Oak’s
Berger. “There’s so much data out that investors will have to
digest the news. Attention will then turn to the earnings season
and to any major news coming from the euro area.”  Alcoa Inc., America’s biggest aluminum producer, is due to
kick off the U.S. earnings-reporting season on July 9.  Adecco slipped 2.2 percent to 42.43 francs after British
recruitment company Robert Walters Plc said its net fee income
dropped 3 percent in the second quarter.  Logitech declined 1.3 percent to 10.15 francs, the largest
drop in three weeks.  Barry Callebaut  fell 2 percent to 839.50 francs. The
company posted nine-month sales of 3.59 billion francs ($3.7
billion). That fell short of the  median analyst estimate 
compiled by Bloomberg for revenue of 3.69 billion francs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  