-- Syracuse Adopts New Policies After Review of Sexual Abuse Claims
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-07-05T22:55:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/syracuse-adopts-new-policies-after-review-of-sexual-abuse-claims.html
Syracuse University  will introduce
new training for athletic department employees and change its
policy on the supervision of minors following a review of its
handling of an accusation of sexual assault against  Bernie Fine .  Bobby Davis in September 2005 told the school that former
assistant basketball coach Fine molested him when he was a ball
boy aged about 12. The school’s investigation concluded at the
time that Davis’s claims were unsubstantiated. Fine, 66, was
fired in November after the allegations were made public. No
criminal charges have been brought and Fine denies wrongdoing.  A special committee of the school’s Board of Trustees found
that Syracuse’s review of the allegations was prompt,
appropriate and undertaken in good faith, the school said today
in a statement on  its website .  “Our report establishes that there was no coverup with
respect to Davis’s claims and that the university investigated
those claims in a good faith and professional manner in 2005,”
Deryck Palmer, the chair of the special committee, said in the
statement. “However, the investigative process was less than it
could and should have been, given the nature of the matter.”  The 52-page report concluded that, in hindsight, the
university should have made direct contact with  law enforcement 
and that the trustees should have been informed of Davis’s
claims.  In addition to training and changes to supervision rules in
the athletic department, the school will adopt revised
notification protocols during summer programs, Chancellor Nancy Cantor said in a letter to students, faculty and staff.  “Our goal remains fostering a safe and secure environment
for all members of the university and the community,” Cantor
said. “The most important things now are that we continue to
learn from these events over the long term and that anyone
impacted by abuse or harassment is able to come forward in a
supportive environment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  