-- Libor Probe by U.K. Lawmakers Is Backed by Labour After Dispute
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2012-07-05T23:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/u-k-commons-backs-cameron-call-for-parliamentary-banking-probe.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s
plan for a parliamentary inquiry following  Barclays Plc (BARC) ’s
rigging of  interest rates  gained the belated backing of the
Labour opposition, which had sought a broader judge-led inquiry.  The House of Commons in London voted yesterday by 330 to
226 to establish a cross-party probe to be led by  Andrew Tyrie ,
a member of Cameron’s  Conservative Party  who heads the chamber’s
Treasury Committee. The government defeated a Labour motion
seeking a judicial investigation by 320 votes to 239. Ed Balls,
who speaks for Labour on Treasury affairs, said his party will
take part in the parliamentary inquiry even though it opposed
the premier’s plan originally.  Barclays, the U.K.’s second-largest bank by assets, was
fined a record 290 million pounds ($453 million) on June 25 for
manipulation of the London interbank offered rate, a global
benchmark, for profit. Chairman Marcus Agius, Chief Executive
Officer  Robert Diamond  and Chief Operating Officer Jerry Del Missier subsequently resigned.  The Labour announcement restored a measure of consensus
after a Commons debate that saw two deputy speakers calling on
lawmakers to calm down and to allow Balls and Chancellor of the
Exchequer  George Osborne  to argue their case. Osborne told the
chamber he welcomed the Labour move and urged “a result all
sides can agree on” so that “we can make the changes in
legislation to make sure this never happens again.”  ‘Grave Error’  Even as he announced to the Commons after the votes that
Labour will participate in the probe, Balls said putting the
review in the hands of politicians was “a very grave error of
judgment” on the part of Osborne and Cameron and will lead to
questions over impartiality by the public.  Tempers frayed at the start of the debate as Balls demanded
Osborne withdraw allegations linking him to the rigging of
Libor. Balls said accusations made by the chancellor in this
week’s Spectator magazine that he leaned on the  Bank of England 
to pressure Barclays to lower its Libor submissions in 2008 were
“baseless.”  Osborne said in the Spectator that people close to former
Prime Minister  Gordon Brown , for whom Balls worked as an aide
before becoming a minister in the previous administration,
“were clearly involved” in the Libor affair and that “we just
haven’t heard the full facts.”  “My opposite number, who was the City minister for part of
this period and Gordon Brown’s right-hand man for all of it, so
he has questions to answer,” Osborne told the magazine.
“That’s  Ed Balls  by the way.”  ‘No Evidence’  Osborne “cannot defend here what he whispers to the
Spectator,” Balls said. “He has no evidence and he knows it.”
The Labour lawmaker said Osborne “should either present the
evidence or withdraw the allegation against me right now.”  Balls argued during the debate that only a judicial probe
would “persuade the public” it was not partisan.  “We need the inquiry to be thorough and genuinely
cathartic or else we will be here again,” he said.  Tyrie had warned he would not head the probe without Labour
support.  “Confidence in banking is very low,” Tyrie told
Parliament, defending the government case for a rapid inquiry.
“This is bad for Britain.”  Tyrie, a former adviser to  John Major  and  Nigel Lawson  when
they were chancellors, and a lawmaker since 1997, described the
Libor scandal as “the worst case of City malpractice I can
recall.”  Ratings Threat  Barclays credit ratings are under threat. Moody’s Investors
Service cut the outlook on the London-based lender’s standalone
bank financial strength to negative from stable, according to a
statement yesterday.  Standard & Poor’s  followed, lowering the
long-term rating outlook to negative. The ratings companies
cited political pressure on the lender’s investment bank and the
departure of Diamond.  Barclays shares  rose 1.3 percent to 168.20 pence in London
trading yesterday. They plunged 16 percent on June 28, the day
after the bank’s settlement with regulators was announced. The
stock is down 4.5 percent this year, making Barclays  the worst
performer  in the six-member  FTSE 350 banks index. (F3BANK)   Bank of England Deputy Governor  Paul Tucker  will appear
before the Commons Treasury Committee on July 9 after lawmakers
agreed to hear his version of his 2008 phone call with Diamond
on Libor rates. That’s the conversation in which Osborne alleged
Tucker was passing the views of Balls.  The policy maker was drawn into the furor after Barclays
published three days ago Diamond’s notes on the call about
Barclays’ Libor submissions. The memo said Tucker, at the time
markets director at the central bank, told Diamond that
“senior” government officials asked why the submissions were
always at the “top end.”  The panel also rescheduled a hearing with Agius, who is
staying on as Barclays executive chairman while a successor to
Diamond is found, for July 10, following testimony two days ago
from the former CEO.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in  London  at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  