-- U.K. Could Get $31 Billion a Year From Green Economy, CBI Says
-- B y   L o u i s e   D o w n i n g
-- 2012-07-05T12:57:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/u-k-had-122-billion-pounds-invested-in-clean-energy-cbi-says.html
The U.K. could earn 20 billion pounds
($31 billion) a year from clean energy products, which accounted
for about a third of the nation’s economic growth in the past
year, the  Confederation of British Industry  said.  The nation’s biggest business lobby group estimated that
Britain boosted its share of the 3.3 trillion pound global
“green market” by 2.3 percent last year. About 122 billion is
invested in the U.K. clean energy industry, accounting for about
8 percent of gross domestic product, the CBI said.  The figures are aimed at pressuring Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s Conservative-led government to step up support for
wind and solar developers. Ministers are debating cuts for
subsidies and are due to make an announcement by the time
Parliament rises for its summer recess on July 17.  “With the right policies in place, green businesses will
be a major pillar of our future growth,”  John Cridland ,
director general for the CBI, said in a statement released with
a report on the issue in  London  today. “The U.K. could be a
global front runner in the shift to low-carbon.”  By 2015 the country’s trade deficit would be about double
current government projections, or more than 10 billion pounds,
without low carbon goods and services, the CBI said.  Britain is aiming for 15 percent of its energy to come from
clean sources such as the sun and wind, by 2020, up from about
3.3 percent now. The government is starting a 3 billion-pound
Green Investment Bank this year to provide financial support to
emissions-reduction technologies. It also has curbed subsides
for solar power and may slash support for  wind energy  next week.  ‘Mixed Signals’  “In a time when we have a trade deficit and when export is
part of a way of rebalancing our economy we found the U.K. has a
green  trade surplus  running at 5 billion pounds a year,”
Cridland said at a press conference today. “Mixed signals from
the government are setting the U.K. back.”  China  buys about 7 percent of the low carbon goods and
services produced in Britain, the CBI said. Sudden policy
changes such as cuts in subsidies given to solar power
developers has created uncertainty and shaken confidence, making
planning and financing of renewables more difficult, he said.  The CBI recommends the government simplify existing policy,
work more closely with the European Union, and ensure market
signals have “stability and longevity.” The Green Investment
Bank should also start raising funds from the  capital markets  as
soon as possible, it said, with priority projects receiving
direct government support in the short-term.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Louise Downing in London at 
 ldowning4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  