-- U.K. Should Regulate Private Eyes After Hacking, Lawmakers Say
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2012-07-05T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/u-k-should-regulate-private-eyes-after-hacking-lawmakers-say.html
The U.K. government should act
urgently to regulate private investigators guilty of “brokering
black-market information” and invading privacy as they did
during the phone-hacking scandal, lawmakers said.  The Home Affairs Select Committee said today that the
government should set up a “robust” licensing and registration
system, establish a new code of conduct for investigators and
strengthen penalties for breaching data privacy rules. It also
recommended in a report published in  London  that dealings
between the police and private eyes should be recorded.  “Recent high-profile events, such as the phone-hacking
scandal, have thrown light on the sometimes shady world of
private investigators,” the Labour lawmaker who heads the
panel, Keith Vaz, said in an e-mailed statement. “We have found
that rogue private investigators are the brokers in a black
market in information. They illegally snoop on our data, cash in
on our private lives and only get away with a paltry fine.”  The phone-hacking scandal at  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s News of the World
tabloid focused attention on the use of private investigators in
the British media. The judicial inquiry into media ethics set up
last year heard testimony that many publications and
broadcasters used private eyes to obtain stories.  Hacking of celebrities, members of the royal family and
crime victims first hit the headlines in 2006 with the arrest of
the News of the World’s royal reporter,  Clive Goodman , and the
tabloid’s private investigator  Glenn Mulcaire . Both were jailed
the following year.  Milly Dowler  News Corp.’s U.K. unit, News International, suppressed the
full extent of hacking until last year when the  Guardian
newspaper  reported that the News of the World intercepted the
mobile-phone messages of murdered schoolgirl  Milly Dowler  in
2002. News Corp. Chairman  Rupert Murdoch  closed the 168-year-old
tabloid and dropped his New York-based company’s bid for the
rest of  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY) , the U.K.’s biggest
pay-television provider.  The scandal triggered three police probes, scores of
lawsuits, as well as parliamentary and judicial inquiries. A
judge’s report on the state of media ethics that may be released
later this year also may contain damaging findings on Murdoch
and his company.  The U.K. Supreme Court ruled on July 4 that Mulcaire must
reveal detailed evidence about the information he gleaned from
hacking, rejecting his argument that he would be incriminating
himself in a possible new criminal case.  The committee also said today it is time for the link
between private investigators and police forces to be broken.
Officers should be compelled to declare any dealings with
private investigators and be subject to a cooling-off period
before they can move from the police service to the private
investigation industry.  The  Home Office  said in a statement it would await the 
findings of the media-ethics probe before taking any action.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  