-- U.K. Lawmakers Vote on Type of Inquiry Into Libor-Rigging
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2012-07-05T08:23:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/u-k-lawmakers-vote-on-type-of-inquiry-into-libor-rigging.html
U.K. lawmakers will vote today on the
type of inquiry into  Barclays Plc (BARC) ’s Libor-rigging, determining
how deeply to examine the issue and how quickly changes to the
law may follow.  The battle to set the terms of the inquiry underscores the
political effort to assign blame between the two main parties.
Lawmakers will decide between a judge-led inquiry into the
banking industry sought by opposition  Labour Party  leader  Ed Miliband  and the six-month-long lawmaker-led probe focused on
Libor favored by Prime Minister  David Cameron . A series of votes
are scheduled for around 5 p.m. in  London .  “The most important thing about an inquiry is that it is
swift and decisive, is set up as fast as possible, gets going as
fast as possible, reports as fast as possible and is transparent
and open at every stage,” Cameron told the House of Commons
yesterday. “That is why I favor a public parliamentary inquiry
rather than a judge-led inquiry. I want us to legislate on this,
starting next year.”  Miliband’s party is likely to lose the vote, as the
Conservatives’ junior coalition partners, the Liberal Democrats,
vote with Cameron’s Tories. If he loses, Miliband must decide if
he will refuse to participate in the lawmaker-led inquiry.  “There are concerns also that the inquiry that has been
talked about is far too narrow, focused solely on the scandal of
Libor when we know that the problems go much wider, to the
culture and practices in the City,” Miliband said in reply to
Cameron yesterday.  Cameron has appointed Conservative lawmaker  Andrew Tyrie  to
lead the probe. Seeking to avoid the appearance of an
establishment whitewash, Tyrie said late last night he would not
proceed without Labour support.  Barclays, the U.K.’s second-largest bank by assets, was
fined a record 290 million pounds ($453 million) on June 25 for
rigging Libor, a global benchmark.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  