-- U.K. House Prices Rise for a Second Month, Halifax Says
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n   a n d   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-07-05T07:37:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/u-k-house-prices-rise-for-a-second-month-halifax-says.html
U.K.  house prices  rose for a second
month in June, according to Halifax, which expects little change
in values for the rest of the year.  Values increased 1 percent from the previous month, when
they rose 0.4 percent, the mortgage unit of  Lloyds Banking Group
Plc (LLOY)  said in a statement in London today. From a year earlier,
prices were down 0.2 percent to an average 162,417 pounds
($253,200).  The U.K. property market has struggled to recover amid
tight lending conditions that’s made it difficult to get a
mortgage. The  Bank of England , which is working on a new plan
with the government to boost lending, will probably decide today
to expand stimulus to stoke an economic recovery and keep its
benchmark  interest rate  at a record low.  “Continuing low levels of mortgage payments relative to
income and recent increases in employment may have helped
support  house prices  so far this year,” Halifax economist
 Martin Ellis  said. “We expect little change in prices and sales
over the remainder of the year provided that the U.K.’s economic
outlook does not deteriorate significantly.”  Over the past year, there have been six monthly price
increases and six declines, based on Halifax data. In the second
quarter, values fell 0.3 percent compared with the quarter
through March and were down 0.5 percent from a year earlier.  Other recent data point to a slowdown in the housing
market. Hometrack Ltd. said this week that  property prices 
stopped rising in June for the first time in four months as
economic uncertainty and a seasonal slowdown curtailed activity
in a market that now faces “downward pressure.”  Nationwide
Building Society  said prices fell 0.6 percent last month.  Mortgage approvals fell to 51,098 in May from 51,627 the
previous month, the Bank of England said on July 3.  Policy makers will probably increase their bond-purchase
program by 50 billion pounds to 375 billion pounds, according to
the median estimate of 41 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.
They’ll also hold the  benchmark interest rate  at 0.5 percent,
according to a separate poll. The bank will announce the
decisions at noon in London.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  