-- U.S. ADP June National Employment Report (Text)
-- B y   C h r i s   M i d d l e t o n
-- 2012-07-05T12:42:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/u-s-adp-june-national-employment-report-text-.html
Following is the text of the June private payrolls report
from ADP Employer Services.  Private-sector employment increased by 176,000 from May to June on a seasonally
adjusted basis, according to the latest ADP National Employment Report released
today. The ADP National Employment Report, created by Automatic Data Processing,
Inc. (ADP), in partnership with  Macroeconomic Advisers , LLC, is derived from actual
payroll data and measures the change in total nonfarm private employment each month.
The estimated gain from April to May was revised up slightly, from the initial
estimate of 133,000 to a revised estimate of 136,000.  U.S. Nonfarm Private Employment Highlights - June 2012 Report:  Total employment: +176,000  Small businesses:* +93,000  Medium businesses:** +72,000  Large businesses:*** +11,000  Goods-producing sector: +16,000  Service-providing sector: +160,000 Addendum:  Manufacturing industry: + 4,000
* Small businesses represent payrolls with 1-49 employees
** Medium businesses represent payrolls with 50-499 employees
*** Large businesses represent payrolls with more than 499 employees
Note: All data included in the ADP National Employment Report is based on size of
payroll. In some cases, small and medium-size payrolls belong to businesses
employing more workers than indicated by the size grouping.  According to today‟s ADP National Employment Report, employment in the nonfarm
private business sector rose 176,000 from May to June on a seasonally adjusted
basis. Employment in the private, service-providing sector rose 160,000 in June,
after rising a revised 137,000 in May. Employment in the private, goods-producing
sector added 16,000 jobs in June, while manufacturing employment added 4,000,
reversing May’
s decline. Construction employment rose by 8,000 jobs, more than reversing the
declines of the two previous months. The financial services sector added 11,000 jobs
from May to June.  “According to the ADP National Employment Report, the economy added 176,000
jobs in June, the majority of which came from the services-providing sector,” said
Carlos A. Rodriguez, president and chief executive officer of ADP. “In spite of
lingering fiscal uncertainties, it is encouraging to see companies creating jobs,
particularly in the goods-producing sector where we see positive growth following
two months of job loss.” Rodriguez added: “Since January of this year, our National
Employment Report shows UNDER EMBARGO UNTIL: Thursday, July 5, 2012 8:15 AM (ET)
that, on average, businesses have added 173,000 jobs a month. We hope this growth
continues at even a healthier rate across all sectors of the economy.”  According to  Joel Prakken , chairman of Macroeconomic Advisers, LLC, “The gain
in private employment is strong enough to suggest that the national  unemployment
rate  may have declined in June. Today‟s estimate, if reinforced by a comparable
reading on employment from the Bureau of Labor Statistics tomorrow, likely will ease
concerns that the economy is heading into a downturn.  Prakken added: “There seems little doubt that recent employment gains have been
restrained by heightened uncertainty over the European financial crisis and by
growing concerns about domestic fiscal policy. However, the acceleration of
employment since April does lend credence to the argument that unseasonably warm
weather boosted employment during the winter months, with a „payback‟ spread over
April and May.”  Employment levels among medium-sized payrolls--those with 50 to 499 workers--
rose by 72,000, while employment on large payrolls--those with 500 or more workers--
increased by 11,000 jobs in June.  The matched sample used to develop the ADP National Employment Report was
derived from ADP data, which, during 2011, averaged about 344,000 U.S. business
clients and represented over 21 million U.S. employees. This approximately
represents the size of the matched sample used this month.  Small Business Highlights - June Report:  Due to the important contribution small businesses make to economic growth,
employment data that is specific to businesses with fewer than 50 employees is
reported in the ADP Small Business Report each month. The ADP Small Business Report
is a subset of the ADP National Employment Report.*  Employment on small payrolls--those with up to 49 workers--rose 93,000 in June.  Total nonfarm private small business employment: 93,000 jobs created  Goods-producing sector gained 9,000 jobs  Service-providing sector added 84,000 jobs
* All size data included in the ADP National Employment Report is based on size of
payroll. In some cases, small and medium-size payrolls belong to businesses
employing more workers than indicated by the size grouping.  Additional information about small business employment, including charts on
monthly job growth and employment levels, along with historical data, is available
at  http://www.smallbusinessreport.adp.com .  To obtain additional information about the ADP National Employment Report,
including additional charts, supporting data and the schedule of future release
dates, or to subscribe to the monthly email alerts and RSS feeds, please visit
www.ADPemploymentreport.com.  The July 2012 ADP National Employment Report will be released August 1, 2012 at
8:15 AM ET.  About the ADP National Employment Report  The ADP National Employment Report, sponsored by ADP, was developed and is
maintained by Macroeconomic Advisers, LLC. It is a measure of employment derived
from an anonymous subset of roughly 500,000 U.S. business clients. During 2011, this
subset averaged about 344,000 U.S. business clients and represented over 21 million
U.S. employees working in all private industrial sectors. The ADP Small Business
Report is a monthly estimate of private nonfarm employment among companies in the
 United States  with 1-49 employees and is a subset of the ADP National Employment
Report. The data for both reports is collected for pay periods that can be
interpolated to include the week of the 12th of each month, and processed with
statistical methodologies similar to those used by the  U.S. Bureau of Labor
Statistics  to compute employment from its monthly survey of establishments. Due to
this processing, this subset is modified to make it indicative of national
employment levels; therefore, the resulting employment changes computed for the ADP
National Employment Report are not representative of changes in ADP‟s total base of
U.S. business clients.  For a description of the underlying data and the statistical properties of the
series, please see “ADP National Employment Report: Development Methodology” at
 http://ADPemploymentreport.com/methodology.aspx .  About ADP Automatic Data Processing, Inc. (NASDAQ: ADP), with about $10 billion
in revenues and approximately 570,000 clients, is one of the world’s largest
providers of business outsourcing solutions. Leveraging over 60 years of experience,
ADP offers a wide range of human resource, payroll, tax and benefits administration
solutions from a single source. ADP’s easy-to-use solutions for employers provide
superior value to companies of all types and sizes. ADP is also a leading provider
of integrated computing solutions to auto, truck, motorcycle, marine, recreational
vehicle, and heavy equipment dealers throughout the world. For more information
about ADP or to contact a local ADP sales office, reach us at 1.800.225.5237 or
visit the company’s website at www.ADP.com.  SOURCE: ADP/ Macroeconomic Advisers
 http://www.adpemploymentreport.com   To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Middleton in Washington at   cmiddleton2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  