-- Asia’s Next Booming Economy
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2012-07-05T21:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/u-s-sized-market-in-china-s-shadow-gets-reboot.html
Myanmar’s conversion to democracy is
breathing new life into a project with a terminally boring name:
 Greater Mekong Subregion .  This name was bestowed on an investment bloc that the  Asian
Development Bank  put together in 1992. It was made up of
 Cambodia ,  Laos , Myanmar,  Thailand ,  Vietnam  and  China ’s Yunnan
Province. Talk about odd bedfellows. It mixes constitutional
monarchies, immature multiparty democracies, communist states
and military regimes suddenly mulling elections with one thing
in common -- a waterway that’s central to the livelihood of 330
million people.  The potential of the resource-rich Mekong River region has
long intrigued Asia-philes. If only this area got its act
together, trade might flourish and markets in this next frontier
of the Asian growth story could take off. Myanmar’s opening
makes this possible for the first time.  Myanmar’s reforms don’t ensure success, though. That
requires overcoming three big challenges: cordial relations with
and among its neighbors, weathering the next global crisis and
navigating the region’s role as a proxy for U.S. and Chinese
designs on  Asia .  In December, about the time Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  became the highest-ranking U.S. official to visit
Myanmar in a half century, Mekong leaders endorsed a 10-year
plan: tighter integration, more open trade and market-oriented
financial policies, better use of natural resources, improved
infrastructure, increased tourism, and poverty reduction.  Competitive Advantages  “The idea is that in order to flourish together, we must
work together,” says  Neav Chanthana , the deputy governor of the
National Bank of Cambodia.  Adds Chartsiri Sophonpanich, the president of Bangkok Bank
Pcl: “What makes this workable is that different countries in
our region really do offer complementary competitive
advantages.” Thailand has banking expertise and sophisticated
markets; Myanmar has substantial stores of petroleum, natural
gas and copper; Laos has considerable hydropower know-how;
Vietnam and Cambodia boast young and growing populations; Yunnan
Province offers labor and a pathway to the world’s fastest-
growing major economy.  Yet Asia’s history with co-ordination is spotty.  Japan  and
 South Korea  can’t put aside anger over World War II long enough
to share intelligence on North Korea’s Kim Jong Un. The
 Association of Southeast Asian Nations , Asean, engages in
meaningless summits and proved out of its depth when global
markets crashed in 2008.  One enduring feature is distrust. Asean’s 10 members covet
sovereignty more than the  European Union  and have vastly
different takes on financial openness, press freedom and human
rights. Co-operation is often in short supply as one nation
undercuts another for short-term gain. Bilateral trade
agreements have proven easier to negotiate than regional ones.  “If people are already looking at Asean integration with
caution, they will take the Mekong subregion with even more
skepticism,” says Tai Hui, Singapore-based head of Southeast
Asian research at Standard Chartered Plc.  Europe’s debt crisis will test Asia as rarely before. The
good news, says Xaypaseuth Phomsoupha, general director of
Laos’s  Ministry of Energy and Mines , is that the Mekong region
is “more insulated” from global turmoil. “The bad news,” he
says, “is that more trouble overseas will leave less money for
development projects at home.”  How Asia copes with Europe’s coming meltdown will say much
about its ability to increase growth, create jobs and raise
 living standards . That goes, too, for China’s ability to play
the role of growth engine. Yet China is a controversial player
in the Mekong region.  Seething Friends  Even as governments woo Asia’s biggest  economy , they seethe
over the huge Chinese dam projects that are reducing flows
downstream. These have led to water shortages, depletion of soil
nutrients, reduced  food production  and trouble for fisheries and
ecosystems.  Another flashpoint is the  South China Sea . The drilling
plans of China National Offshore Oil Corp. have enraged the
Vietnamese. China has repeatedly shown a willingness to provoke
conflicts in disputed waters, as it has with the  Philippines  and
Japan. If one of these spins out of control it would cost China
dearly by driving Asian governments to seek more support from
Washington.  For Clinton and President  Barack Obama , the Mekong region
is a microcosm of China-U.S. relations. Obama’s so-called pivot
to Asia has unnerved officials in Beijing, who almost see the
Mekong region as their birthright. Access to natural resources
is almost secondary. The bigger issue is who holds sway over
Asia a decade from now.  The creative tension emanating from U.S. and Chinese
engagement has its benefits. As both jockey for advantage, the
 Mekong  nations can play one off against the other and seek
investment, security assurances and free-trade agreements. Yet
there’s ample scope for things to go awry.  For all the challenges, Myanmar’s rebirth is a fresh start
for the Mekong region. The process won’t be smooth and it won’t
necessarily go as planned. But when a promising economic area
with an American-size population joins hands, the potential can
only grow.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on the best outcome of  Libya’s
messy elections  and what ex-Barclays CEO  Robert Diamond   should
have been asked  by members of Parliament; Jonathan Weil on  what
else might be amiss  at Barclays; Stephen L. Carter on the
 uselessness of the vice presidency ;  Noah Feldman  explains why
 liberals should be happy  with the  Supreme Court ; Enrique Krauze
on  democracy and new leadership  in Mexico; Vali Nasr on the U.S.
 apology to Pakistan   To contact the writer of this article:
William Pesek in Bangkok at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  