-- U.S. June ISM Non-Manufacturing Report on Business (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2012-07-05T14:16:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/u-s-june-ism-non-manufacturing-report-on-business-text-.html
Following is the text of U.S. non-
manufacturing conditions from the Institute for Supply
Management.  Economic activity in the non-manufacturing sector grew in
June for the 30th consecutive month, say the nation’s purchasing
and supply executives in the latest Non-Manufacturing ISM Report
On Business.  The report was issued today by  Anthony Nieves , C.P.M.,
CFPM, chair of the Institute for Supply Management Non-
Manufacturing Business Survey Committee. “The NMI registered
52.1 percent in June, 1.6 percentage points lower than the 53.7
percent registered in May. This indicates continued growth this
month at a slower rate in the non-manufacturing sector. The Non-
Manufacturing Business Activity Index registered 51.7 percent,
which is 3.9 percentage points lower than the 55.6 percent
reported in May, reflecting growth for the 35th consecutive
month. The New Orders Index decreased by 2.2 percentage points
to 53.3 percent, and the Employment Index increased by 1.5
percentage points to 52.3 percent, indicating continued growth
in employment at a faster rate. The Prices Index decreased 0.9
percentage point to 48.9 percent, indicating lower month-over-
month prices for the second consecutive month. According to the
NMI, 12 non-manufacturing industries reported growth in June.
Respondents’ comments are mixed and vary by industry and
company.”  INDUSTRY PERFORMANCE  The 12 non-manufacturing industries reporting growth in
June -- listed in order -- are: Educational Services; Arts,
Entertainment & Recreation; Management of Companies & Support
Services; Retail Trade; Utilities; Transportation & Warehousing;
Accommodation & Food Services; Public Administration;
Construction; Information; Finance & Insurance; and  Wholesale
Trade . The five industries reporting contraction in June are:
Mining; Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing & Hunting; Health Care &
Social Assistance; Real Estate, Rental & Leasing; and
Professional, Scientific & Technical Services.  WHAT RESPONDENTS ARE SAYING  “General state of business this month is flat, with no
changes.” (Construction) “Business is steady and an increase
over last month, as we begin our peak season.” (Arts,
Entertainment & Recreation) “We are starting to experience a
slowdown from the modest, grinding improvements our market areas
have been experiencing of late.” (Finance & Insurance) “Patient
counts continue to be lower than budget.” (Health Care & Social
Assistance) “Business is still growing, but there has been a
definite slowing in growth.” (Wholesale Trade) “We have noticed
a slowing of customer counts and sales over the last 30 to 60
days, compared to the same period last year.” (Accommodation &
Food Services) “Stable business globally, but softening backlog
as clients further tighten discretionary spend.” (Professional,
Scientific & Technical Services  COMMODITIES REPORTED UP / DOWN IN PRICE, and IN SHORT SUPPLY
Commodities Up in Price  Airfares (6); Automobiles; Gasoline(c) (6); Labor;
Packaging Materials; Paper; and Plastic Resins.  Commodities Down in Price  Cheese (3); Copper Products;  Diesel Fuel ; #1 Diesel Fuel
(2); #2 Diesel Fuel (2); Fuel; Gasoline(c) (2); Heating Fuel;
and Steel Products (2).  Commodities in Short Supply  Computer Products; Gloves; and Technical/Technology Labor.  Note: The number of consecutive months the commodity is listed
is indicated after each item.  (c) Reported as both up and down in price.  JUNE 2012 NON-MANUFACTURING INDEX SUMMARIES  NMI  In June, the NMI registered 52.1 percent, indicating
continued growth in the non-manufacturing sector for the 30th
consecutive month. A reading above 50 percent indicates the non-
manufacturing sector economy is generally expanding; below 50
percent indicates the non-manufacturing sector is generally
contracting.  Business Activity  ISM’s Non-Manufacturing Business Activity Index in June
registered 51.7 percent, 3.9 percentage points lower than the
55.6 percent registered in May. Twelve industries reported
increased business activity, and five industries reported
decreased activity for the month of June. Comments from
respondents include: “Business sees continuous growth” and
“Number of work orders increased.”  The industries reporting growth of business activity in
June -- listed in order -- are: Educational Services; Arts,
Entertainment & Recreation; Utilities; Management of Companies &
Support Services; Information; Accommodation & Food Services;
Retail Trade; Public Administration; Finance & Insurance;
Construction; Transportation & Warehousing; and Wholesale Trade.
The industries reporting decreased business activity in June
are: Mining; Real Estate, Rental & Leasing; Other Services;
Health Care & Social Assistance; and Professional, Scientific &
Technical Services.  New Orders  ISM’s Non-Manufacturing New Orders Index grew in June for
the 35th consecutive month. The index registered 53.3 percent, a
decrease of 2.2 percentage points from the 55.5 percent reported
in May. Comments from respondents include: “Improved business
climate -- more hiring” and “Customer counts continue to fall at
a faster pace than expected.”  The 11 industries reporting growth of new orders in June --
listed in order -- are: Educational Services; Arts,
Entertainment & Recreation; Management of Companies & Support
Services; Retail Trade; Utilities; Information; Public
Administration; Accommodation & Food Services; Transportation &
Warehousing; Finance & Insurance; and Professional, Scientific &
Technical Services. The three industries reporting contraction
of new orders in June are: Mining; Other Services; and Wholesale
Trade.  Employment  Employment activity in the non-manufacturing sector grew in
June at a faster rate, as ISM’s Non-Manufacturing Employment
Index registered 52.3 percent. This reflects an increase of 1.5
percentage points when compared to the 50.8 percent registered
in May. Thirteen industries reported increased employment, three
industries reported decreased employment, and two industries
reported unchanged employment compared to May. Comments from
respondents include: “Expectations of new work next month” and
“Adding personnel to keep up with growth.”  The industries reporting an increase in employment in June
-- listed in order -- are: Arts, Entertainment & Recreation;
Management of Companies & Support Services; Real Estate, Rental
& Leasing; Other Services; Transportation & Warehousing;
Accommodation & Food Services; Public Administration; Retail
Trade; Construction; Wholesale Trade; Finance & Insurance;
Professional, Scientific & Technical Services; and Educational
Services. The industries reporting a reduction in employment in
June are: Health Care & Social Assistance; Information; and
Utilities.  Supplier Deliveries  The Supplier Deliveries Index slowed in June for the third
consecutive month, following two months of faster deliveries.
The index registered 51 percent, which is 2 percentage points
lower than the 53 percent reported in May. A reading above 50
percent indicates slower deliveries, and below 50 percent
indicates faster deliveries.  The 10 industries reporting slower deliveries in June --
listed in order -- are: Construction; Educational Services;
Utilities; Management of Companies & Support Services; Retail
Trade; Transportation & Warehousing; Public Administration;
Wholesale Trade; Finance & Insurance; and Health Care & Social
Assistance. The five industries reporting faster supplier
deliveries in June are: Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing &
Hunting; Mining; Real Estate, Rental & Leasing; Information; and
Professional, Scientific & Technical Services.  Inventories  ISM’s Non-Manufacturing Inventories Index grew in June for
the fifth consecutive month. The index registered 53 percent,
which is 3 percentage points lower than the 56 percent reported
in May. Of the total respondents in June, 28 percent indicated
they do not have inventories or do not measure them. Comments
from respondents include: “Faster deliveries from suppliers have
allowed us to decrease inventories” and “Slightly lower due to
strong sales.”  The eight industries reporting an increase in inventories
in June -- listed in order -- are: Information; Other Services;
Accommodation & Food Services; Construction; Retail Trade;
Wholesale Trade; Utilities; and Professional, Scientific &
Technical Services. The five industries reporting decreases in
inventories in June are: Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing &
Hunting; Management of Companies & Support Services; Finance &
Insurance; Health Care & Social Assistance; and Mining.  Prices  Prices paid by non-manufacturing organizations for
purchased materials and services decreased in June for the
second consecutive month. ISM’s Non-Manufacturing Prices Index
for June registered 48.9 percent, 0.9 percentage point lower
than the 49.8 percent reported in May. In June, the percentage
of respondents reporting higher prices is 14 percent, the
percentage indicating no change in prices paid is 73 percent,
and 13 percent of the respondents reported lower prices.  Eight non-manufacturing industries reported an increase in
prices paid during the month of June, in the following order:
Accommodation & Food Services; Other Services; Finance &
Insurance; Management of Companies & Support Services;
Transportation & Warehousing; Wholesale Trade; Professional,
Scientific & Technical Services; and Health Care & Social
Assistance. The eight industries reporting a decrease in prices
paid during June -- listed in order -- are: Agriculture,
Forestry, Fishing & Hunting; Mining; Construction; Educational
Services; Utilities; Public Administration; Retail Trade; and
Information.  Backlog of Orders  ISM’s Non-Manufacturing Backlog of Orders Index contracted
in June after two consecutive months of growth. The index
registered 47.5 percent, which is 5.5 percentage points lower
than the 53 percent reported in May. Of the total respondents in
June, 36 percent indicated they do not measure backlog of
orders.  The five industries reporting an increase in order backlogs
in June are: Information; Finance & Insurance; Management of
Companies & Support Services; Construction; and Public
Administration. The seven industries reporting lower backlog of
orders in June -- listed in order -- are: Arts, Entertainment &
Recreation; Mining; Other Services; Wholesale Trade; Health Care
& Social Assistance; Accommodation & Food Services; and Retail
Trade. Six industries reported no change in backlog of orders in
June compared to May.  New Export Orders  Orders and requests for services and other non-
manufacturing activities to be provided outside of the  United
States  by domestically based personnel contracted in June for
the for the first time after 10 consecutive months of growth.
The New Export Orders Index for June registered 49.5 percent,
which is 3.5 percentage points lower than the 53 percent
reported in May. Of the total respondents in June, 66 percent
indicated they either do not perform, or do not separately
measure, orders for work outside of the United States.  The three industries reporting an increase in new export
orders in June are: Arts, Entertainment & Recreation;
Information; and Finance & Insurance. The six industries
reporting a decrease in export orders in June -- listed in order
-- are: Mining; Other Services; Retail Trade; Professional,
Scientific & Technical Services; Construction; and Wholesale
Trade. Six industries reported no change in new export orders in
June compared to May.  Imports  The ISM Non-Manufacturing Imports Index grew in June for
the seventh consecutive month. The index registered 53.5
percent, which is 0.5 percentage point higher than the 53
percent reported in May. Fifty-six percent of respondents
reported that they do not use, or do not track, the use of
imported materials.  The seven industries reporting an increase in the use of
imports in June -- listed in order -- are: Finance & Insurance;
Professional, Scientific & Technical Services; Information;
Management of Companies & Support Services; Arts, Entertainment
& Recreation; Public Administration; and Retail Trade. The only
industry reporting a decrease in imports for the month of June
is Wholesale Trade. Ten industries reported no change in imports
for the month of June compared to May.  Inventory Sentiment  The ISM Non-Manufacturing Inventory Sentiment Index in June
registered 64.5 percent, which is 1.5 percentage points higher
than the 63 percent reported in May. This indicates that
respondents believe their inventories are still too high at this
time. In June, 31 percent of respondents said their inventories
were too high, 2 percent said their inventories were too low,
and 67 percent said their inventories were about right.  The 10 industries reporting a feeling that their
inventories are too high in June -- listed in order -- are:
Mining; Information; Finance & Insurance; Wholesale Trade; Real
Estate, Rental & Leasing; Management of Companies & Support
Services; Other Services; Utilities; Professional, Scientific &
Technical Services; and Construction. The only industry
reporting that their inventories are too low in June is Retail
Trade.  About this Report  The data presented herein is obtained from a survey of non-
manufacturing supply managers based on information they have
collected within their respective organizations. ISM makes no
representation, other than that stated within this release,
regarding the individual company data collection procedures. Use
of the data is in the public domain and should be compared to
all other economic data sources when used in decision-making.  Data and Method of Presentation  The Non-Manufacturing ISM Report On Business is based on
data compiled from purchasing and supply executives nationwide.
Membership of the Non-Manufacturing Business Survey Committee is
diversified by NAICS, based on each industry’s contribution to
gross domestic product (GDP). The Non-Manufacturing Business
Survey Committee responses are divided into the following NAICS
code categories: Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing & Hunting;
Mining; Utilities; Construction; Wholesale Trade; Retail Trade;
Transportation & Warehousing; Information; Finance & Insurance;
Real Estate, Rental & Leasing; Professional, Scientific &
Technical Services; Management of Companies & Support Services;
Educational Services; Health Care & Social Assistance; Arts,
Entertainment & Recreation; Accommodation & Food Services;
Public Administration; and Other Services (services such as
Equipment & Machinery Repairing; Promoting or Administering
Religious Activities; Grantmaking; Advocacy; and Providing Dry-
Cleaning & Laundry Services, Personal Care Services, Death Care
Services, Pet Care Services, Photofinishing Services, Temporary
Parking Services, and Dating Services).  Survey responses reflect the change, if any, in the current
month compared to the previous month. For each of the indicators
measured (Business Activity, New Orders, Backlog of Orders, New
Export Orders,  Inventory Change , Inventory Sentiment, Imports,
Prices, Employment and Supplier Deliveries), this report shows
the percentage reporting each response, and the diffusion index.
Responses represent raw data and are never changed. Data is
seasonally adjusted for Business Activity, New Orders, Prices
and Employment. All seasonal adjustment factors are supplied by
the U.S. Department of Commerce and are subject annually to
relatively minor changes when conditions warrant them. The
remaining indexes have not indicated significant seasonality.  The NMI (Non-Manufacturing Index) is a composite index
based on the diffusion indexes for four of the indicators with
equal weights: Business Activity (seasonally adjusted), New
Orders (seasonally adjusted), Employment (seasonally adjusted)
and Supplier Deliveries. Diffusion indexes have the properties
of leading indicators and are convenient summary measures
showing the prevailing direction of change and the scope of
change. An index reading above 50 percent indicates that the
non-manufacturing economy in that index is generally expanding;
below 50 percent indicates that it is generally declining.
Supplier Deliveries is an exception. A Supplier Deliveries Index
above 50 percent indicates slower deliveries and below 50
percent indicates faster deliveries.  The Non-Manufacturing ISM Report On Business surveys are
sent out to Non-Manufacturing Business Survey Committee
respondents the first part of each month. Respondents are asked
to ONLY report on information for the current month. ISM
receives survey responses throughout most of any given month,
with the majority of respondents generally waiting until late in
the month to submit responses in order to give the most accurate
picture of current business activity. ISM then compiles the
reports for release on the third business day of the following
month.  The industries reporting growth, as indicated in the Non-
Manufacturing ISM Report On Business monthly reports, are listed
in the order of most growth to least growth. For the industries
reporting contraction or decreases, those are listed in the
order of the highest level of contraction/decrease to the least
level of contraction/decrease.  The Non-Manufacturing ISM Report On Business is published
monthly by the  Institute for Supply Management , the largest
supply management research and education organization in the
United States. The Institute for Supply Management, established
in 1915, is the largest supply management organization in the
world as well as one of the most respected. ISM’s mission is to
lead the supply management profession through its standards of
excellence, research, promotional activities and education.  The full text version of the Non-Manufacturing ISM Report
On Business is posted on ISM’s Web site at www.ism.ws on the
third business day of every month after 10:10 a.m. (ET).  The next Non-Manufacturing ISM Report On Business featuring
the July 2012 data will be released at 10:00 a.m. (ET) on
Friday, August 3, 2012.  SOURCE: Institute for Supply Management    http://www.ism.ws  