-- U.S. Cellular Stung by Smartphone Subsidies: Corporate Finance
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2012-07-05T19:28:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/u-s-cellular-stung-by-smartphone-subsidies-corporate-finance.html
Traders see growing risk in the debt
of  U.S. Cellular Corp. (USM) , whose ability to compete with  AT&T Inc. (T) 
and Verizon Communications Inc. is hampered by the costs of
subsidizing the pricier smartphones sought by consumers.  Credit-default swaps tied to the eighth-largest U.S.
wireless carrier have almost doubled in the past year while the
average for peers rose 15 percent. U.S. Cellular bonds have been
trading at levels that imply junk status since October,
according to Moody’s Corp.’s capital markets research group, and
their relative yields have widened even as spreads on
investment-grade phone company debt tightened.  Smaller wireless carriers such as Chicago-based U.S.
Cellular, which is run by a former  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  marketing
chief, are struggling to bridge the gap between the wholesale
prices they pay and the lower retail prices they charge for
smartphones including the Samsung Galaxy line, which the company
offers for as little as $79.99. U.S. Cellular reported its
seventh straight quarterly decline of customers in May.  “This is a business of scale, and this company, like a lot
of other companies, has not yet shown that it’s able to carve
out a niche for itself,” Dennis Saputo, a New York-based
analyst at Moody’s Investors Service, said in a telephone
interview. “It’s unclear to us whether or not the industry in
general, and U.S. Cellular in particular, is going to be able to
increase average revenue per user enough to offset some of the
highest priced handsets.”  Steve Carlson, Kelly Harfoot and Laura Lualhati, spokesmen
for the company, didn’t respond to voicemail messages and e-
mails seeking comment.  Implied Rating  U.S. Cellular had $886 million of debt outstanding as of
March 31, including $544 million of 6.7 percent bonds maturing
in December 2033, according to a May 4 regulatory filing.  The 6.7 percent notes fell 0.6 cent on July 3 to 104 cents
on the dollar to yield 6.38 percent. The notes have implied a
credit rating of Ba1 since Oct. 5, two steps below the actual
ranking at Moody’s of Baa2, according to the capital markets
research group, a separate Moody’s unit that analyzes market
data.  The company’s ratio of debt to earnings before income,
taxes, depreciation and amortization was 1.03 as of March 31,
the second-lowest leverage among 15 of its peers, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. That makes U.S. Cellular  a “good
acquisition target,” said  Chetan Sharma , an independent
wireless analyst who covers telecommunications from Issaquah,
 Washington .  Swaps Climb  Telephone & Data Systems Inc., the telecommunications
company controlled by the family of Chairman LeRoy Carlson Jr.,
owns 73 percent of U.S. Cellular, Bloomberg data show.  Credit-default swaps on U.S. Cellular have climbed 78 basis
points since July 1, 2011, Bloomberg prices show. The contracts
increased 1 basis point to a mid-price of 170 basis points at
12:30 p.m. in  New York , compared with 92 basis points. That
means investors would pay $170,000 annually to protect $10
million of U.S. Cellular debt.  The average cost of guarding against losses on the debt of
16 investment-grade telecommunications companies has increased
12.4 basis points to 95.5 basis points since July 2011.  Credit-default swaps, which typically rise as investor
confidence deteriorates and fall as it improves, pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt.  ‘Necessary Evil’  U.S. Cellular, which operates in 26 states, reported a net
loss of 34,000 customers in the first quarter, its seventh
 straight  quarterly decline. The erosion of the company’s
customer base has made it more difficult for it to compete in an
industry increasingly dominated by subsidized smartphones,
according to  Jennifer Fritzsche , a Chicago-based analyst with
 Wells Fargo Securities LLC .  “It’s kind of a necessary evil; they’ve got to do these
smartphones because if they don’t, they are totally
irrelevant,” she said in a telephone interview. “It’s longer-
term positive because it will generate higher revenue, but it
puts more pressure near-term on margins.”  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  is said to charge carriers about $600 per
iPhone, while Google Inc.’s Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. and
Samsung Electronics Co. typically ask about $300 for their
smartphones, according to Fritzsche. Wholesale prices on devices
are not disclosed to the public. U.S. Cellular said on June 4
that it would offer the new Samsung Galaxy S III online and in
stores starting this month. The phone is being offered for as
little as $199.99 in preorders on the company’s  website .  Service Revenue  The difference between wholesale and retail prices is more
easily absorbed by larger carriers that command greater service
revenue, Sharma, who heads Chetan Sharma Consulting, said in a
telephone interview.  Service revenue at U.S. Cellular was $1.02 billion in the
first quarter, compared with $14.6 billion for AT&T and  $15.4
billion (VZ)  for Verizon.  “Smaller operators just don’t have the bank balance to
foot the bill of multiple such handsets,” Sharma said. “Their
role in the market is very marginal.”  Unfavorable pricing led the company to turn down an offer
from Apple to add the iPhone to its device offerings, U.S.
Cellular Chief Executive Officer Mary Dillon said in November.  “The terms were unacceptable from a risk and profitability
standpoint,” Dillon said during the company’s third-quarter
earnings call with analysts and investors on Nov. 4. “It would
have forced us to compromise on our commitment to offering an
unparalleled customer experience.”  Dillon served as chief marketing officer for McDonald’s
from 2005 to 2010 before joining U.S. Cellular.  No iPhone  While the decision not to offer the iPhone makes sense from
the perspective of the company’s small scale and pressured
margins, it puts U.S. Cellular at a significant disadvantage,
Saputo said.  “They’re one of the few carriers in the U.S. that doesn’t
offer their subscribers the iPhone,” he said. “There’s a whole
host of consumers who will only want an iPhone, and they don’t
want to hear about the other devices or how much it may be
better suited to their lifestyle and needs.”  Shares of U.S. Cellular fell 32 cents, or 0.8 percent, to
$39.31 at 3:20 p.m. in New York. The stock had declined 9.2
percent this year through July 3.  The extra yield that investors demand to hold U.S. Cellular
debt rather than  government securities  has increased 4 basis
points to 411 basis points since May 31, while the spread on all
telephone companies has narrowed 15 basis points, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  Standard & Poor’s rates U.S. Cellular at BBB-, one level
less than Moody’s. High-yield, high-risk or junk bonds are rated
below Baa3 by Moody’s and lower than BBB- by S&P.  Wireless Contracts  As U.S. Cellular struggles to gain share in the smartphone
market, sales of wireless contracts across the industry are
declining for the first time, forcing even the larger carriers
to seek revenue from new sources, said Avi Greengart, research
director for consumer devices for market research firm Current
Analysis.  Total wireless customer contracts across the industry were
346.6 million in the period, down from 359.5 million in the
fourth quarter, according to Bloomberg Industries data.  That means that strategies such as U.S. Cellular’s deal
with Alltel Corp. to offer prepaid, or no contract, wireless
service through  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  will provide only a small
boost to revenue as the four largest carriers, AT&T, Verizon,
 Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  and T-Mobile USA Inc., rush into the market,
according to Sharma.  The lack of opportunities for smaller companies as the four
largest carriers shore up market share has left the industry
“begging for consolidation,” he said.  “It’s going to be hard to see how they’re going to be able
to provide a level of service that overcomes the lack of
scale,” Saputo said of U.S. Cellular. “Because they are
relatively small, they don’t get the same access to handsets,
they don’t get it on time, and they end up paying a little bit
more because their volumes are lower.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in New York at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  