-- U.S. Exit Risks Afghan Economy as Cash Pumped Into Dubai
-- B y   E l t a f   N a j a f i z a d a
-- 2012-07-05T20:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/u-s-exit-risks-afghan-economy-as-cash-pumped-into-dubai-villas.html
Afghan central bank inspector Fahim
Satari stands in  Kabul airport  in front of a local businessman
headed for Dubai, counting by hand the stack of $100 bills that
police found the passenger carrying to the gate.  Satari declares the cash to be under the $20,000 limit
imposed to stem the flood of money leaving through the terminal,
which swelled to $4.6 billion in the year to March and equals
almost one-fourth of the economy. While Satari’s team has slowed
the airborne outflow, Kabul brokers who arrange informal
transfers say business has jumped. In a country where only 7
percent of the population has a bank account and 15 percent of
the economy depends on opium, cash is fleeing Afghanistan.  The lost billions are undercutting U.S. efforts to
stabilize the country as it prepares to withdraw its troops by
2014 and exit an 11-year war with the Taliban. President  Hamid Karzai  needs to build an  economy  capable of financing long-term
security and spurring the development that can help unite a
nation fractured by decades-old ethnic rivalries.  “The money leaving the country shows that Afghans fear the
war will escalate after NATO troops leave,” Saifuddin Saihoon,
an economics professor at Kabul University, said by phone. The
government and international community need to reassure
companies that their assets will be protected or risk a business
collapse, he said.  Military-Dependent  About 97 percent of the Afghan economy is based on spending
by the militaries that comprise the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization force and international aid, the U.S. Senate’s
Foreign Relations Committee said in a  report  last year. A sharp
decline in overseas funds “could trigger a major economic
recession,” it said.  Assistance to Afghanistan totaled $15.7 billion in the 2011
financial year, mostly from the U.S., the  World Bank  and the
Afghan  finance ministry  said in a  November  study. That’s
slightly less than the country’s gross domestic product.  Omar Zakhilwal, Karzai’s finance minister, said June 28 on
the sidelines of an investment summit for Afghanistan held in
 New Delhi  that the airport curbs had been imposed to force
people to use easy-to-monitor banks to move their cash.  Afghans have another option. Inside a scruffy three-story
building in central Kabul guarded by police, the so-called
hawaladars of Saraye Shahzada market, an eight-decade-old
institution based on trust and the region’s deeply ingrained
emphasis on honor, are busy at work.  Booming Business  “Since the airport restrictions came in more people are
demanding our services,” Najeeb Ullah Akhtary, the president of
Afghanistan’s currency-exchange union, said June 12. In February
and March, business was up 10 percent, with one transfer of
$700,000. The 400 hawaladars in Kabul doubled charges in April,
to 2 percent of the transaction value, he said.  Approached to make a transfer, the hawaladar typically
accepts the cash, then calls a counterpart in Dubai, Pakistan or
 Iran , where an equal amount is handed to the recipient.
Transfers are often completed in minutes. Debts between brokers
are settled later.  The hawala networks flourish in Afghanistan, where only 7
percent of 30 million people had bank accounts in 2011 according
to the central bank. The reputation of formal financial services
was savaged by the 2010 Kabul Bank scandal in which the lender’s
politically connected owners lost more than $900 million of
depositors’ money through illegal insider loans.  “People don’t trust banks very much and also the banks
can’t send money as quickly as we do,” Akhtary said.  Troop Surge  Satari’s stationing at Afghanistan’s biggest international
terminal was triggered by a spike in capital flight in the
financial year that ended March 21. Just $800 million arrived at
the airport versus $4.6 billion that passengers shipped out in
their baggage, Mustafa Maqsudi, the head of the bank’s financial
intelligence unit, said in an interview.  The uptick mirrors increasing insecurity across
Afghanistan. A June 22 raid on a luxury hotel outside Kabul
killed 18 people. More than 3,000 civilians died in attacks in
2011, and a further  579  up to April this year, according to a
May 31 Congressional Research Service report.  U.S. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  said on June 7 that
guerrilla strikes were rising in frequency and becoming more
sophisticated as the U.S. prepares to withdraw troops the Obama
administration deployed as part of its 2010 surge.  The U.S.-led  International Security Assistance Force  in
Afghanistan reported June 26 that Taliban strikes rose  21
percent  in  May  from the same month a year earlier.  Dubai Boost  “Taliban attacks have grown since the U.S. and Afghanistan
signed their strategic pact”  Waheed Mujda , a former Taliban
official who is now an analyst at the independent Kabul Center
for Strategic Studies, said June 12. The May accord allows some
American soldiers to remain after 2014 for training and
counterterrorism operations. “While Americans are in
 Afghanistan , the Taliban will keep fighting.”  Reflecting the uncertainty that awaits Afghanistan, prices
of Kabul’s best properties have declined by 25 to 30 percent.  A year ago, “a luxury residential building could have been
sold for $1 million in Wazir Akbar Khan,” a Kabul neighborhood
of villas rented by many foreign companies, aid groups and
embassies, Naser Behzad, a property dealer in the capital, said
June 5 at his office. “But now we can’t sell them for
$800,000.”  In Dubai, long a refuge for wealthy Afghans fleeing war,
values of villa developments are rising, helping the desert
sheikhdom emerge from a three-year property slump.  Multiple Purchases  “Virtually all of the money that is being invested in the
UAE property market from Afghanistan is going into 100 percent
cash transactions,” said Jean-Luc Desbois, who founded his  Home
Matters  mortgage consultancy in Dubai in 2006. “There are still
significant numbers of Afghani property purchases going on.”  Clients are mostly affluent and are buying multiple
properties costing between 3 million ($817,000) and 6 million
dirhams in locations such as Palm Jumeirah, an artificial
archipelago shaped like a palm tree that juts into the  Persian
Gulf , Desbois said. “Many Afghanis with significant assets are
concerned about what will happen once they fully govern
themselves.”  The U.S. has prodded Afghanistan to better control cash
flows that may be linked to corruption and the drug trade, in
which 15 percent of the economy is rooted, according to a United
Nations  survey  in January.  Opium Funds  Hawaladars in Kandahar, the country’s second largest city
and the 1990s birthplace of the Taliban, and the opium-producing
province of Helmand may handle $1 billion in drug money a year,
according to a March 7 U.S.  Bureau of International Narcotics 
report.  Over the past three years, the central bank, known as Da
Afghanistan Bank, has built its first-ever hawala registry,
requiring the brokers to submit monthly reports. Maqsudi, the
bank official, said the greater transparency has reduced the
laundering of money generated by growing opium.  Jalil Ahmad, a Kabul currency trader, said that while he
asks for  identity cards  and questions clients on the purpose of
each transfer, brokers have no way of checking the background of
people using their services or the origins of their cash.  The central bank retains the authority to grant exceptions
to the $20,000 airport limit, Karzai’s senior economic adviser,
Sham Lal Patija, said June 12.  During an interview in April, the bank’s governor,
Noorullah Delawari, was interrupted by calls from Satari
requesting help in dealing with two businessmen, one with
$200,000 in his luggage and the other bidding to leave Kabul
with about $500,000. Delawari rejected the first case while
allowing the second traveler to board the flight with his money,
telling a reporter he could vouch for the man’s credentials.  Akhtary, the currency union chief, said he’s concerned that
the money he helps move out of Afghanistan may undermine the
economy. “But transferring cash abroad is a better option than
losing it after 2014,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eltaf Najafizada in Kabul at 
 enajafizada1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  