-- UniCredit Says Deposits Rising, Bad Loans in Italy Worsening
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 2012-07-05T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/unicredit-says-deposits-rising-bad-loans-in-italy-worsening.html
UniCredit SpA (UCG) ’s deposits are expected
to have risen in the second quarter, while bad loans in  Italy 
are increasing because of the country’s third recession in a
decade, Chief Executive officer Federico Ghizzoni said.  “Our deposits are growing both in Italy and abroad,”
Ghizzoni, CEO of Italy’s biggest bank, said at a meeting with
the Milan Foreign Press Club today. “The latest data confirm
the trend we have seen in the fourth quarter of last year and
first three months of the year.”  UniCredit’s bad loans are worsening in Italy, where the
bank lends 35 percent of its total credit, the CEO said. “The
negative trend of bad loans we are recording in Italy is not
seen in other countries such as  Germany  and central and eastern
 Europe .”  The bank is cutting costs and reducing risks as part of its
five-year plan approved in November to boost profitability.
Ghizzoni confirmed the plan’s main points, including 5,200 job
cuts in Italy by 2015. The Milan-based bank has closed about 800
branches in the last two years, he said.  UniCredit is working on a reorganization of its Italian
businesses to simplify the structure and reduce costs. The
bank’s board will review the plan next week, he said.  CEE leadership  UniCredit may consider exiting some countries in central
and eastern Europe as it focuses on profitable businesses.
“UniCredit wants to keep its leadership role in central and
eastern Europe, even if we don’t keep the same number of
countries,” the CEO said.  UniCredit, which operates in 22 countries including
Germany, Austria and Poland, gets about 57 percent of its
 revenue outside  Italy. The bank’s profit rose 13 percent to 914
million euros ($1.14 billion) in the first quarter.  The bank, which is the biggest lender in the former
communist part of Europe, is focusing investments on its most
promising markets,  Russia ,  Turkey , Poland and the  Czech
Republic , while shelving branch expansion plans in Hungary and
Romania.  “This year is tougher than expected,” Ghizzoni said.
“The bank is geographically well positioned, and has sound
liquidity and capital.” The bank has completed about 60 percent
of this year’s funding plan, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  