-- Van Persie Paves Way for $343,000-a-Week Man. City Move: Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-07-05T06:08:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/van-persie-paves-way-for-343-000-a-week-man-city-move-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Top Earner  Robin van Persie ’s decision not to sign a new contract at
Arsenal may facilitate a move to Manchester City that could earn
the Netherlands striker 220,000 pounds ($343,000) a week, the
 Daily Mirror reported .  The salary would put  Van Persie , who turns 29 next month,
among the Premier League champion’s top earners alongside Yaya Toure and  Carlos Tevez , the newspaper added.  Red Robin?  Manchester United  is also interested in Van Persie and
manager  Alex Ferguson  will urge the club to push its financial
limits to beat City to his signature, the  Daily Mail reported .  City is prepared to offer Van Persie 225,000 pounds a week,
which is beyond United’s pay structure, the Mail added.  Brazilian Delegation  Ferguson wants to sign attacking midfielder Lucas Moura
from  Sao Paulo  and has sent a delegation led by United chief
scout Jim Lawlor to thrash out a deal for the 19-year-old
Brazilian, the  Mirror reported .  Moura is valued at 35 million pounds by his club, though
United is looking at ways of reducing the price and persuading
his family, who own part of his contract, to back a move to Old
Trafford, the Mirror added.  Maicon Move  Chelsea may complete the signing of Inter Milan defender
Maicon in a couple of days, the  Daily Express reported .  Inter will receive 6.5 million pounds for the 30-year-old
full-back, the Express said, citing people familiar with
situation it didn’t identify.  Lloris Lined Up  Tottenham Hotspur is considering a bid for Lyon goalkeeper
 Hugo Lloris  after signing midfielder Gylfi Sigurdsson for 8
million pounds, the  Daily Telegraph reported .  Spurs, who have had a long-standing interest in Lloris, are
hoping that Lyon will be willing to sell the France national
team captain at closer to 10 million pounds than the current
asking price of 16 million pounds, the newspaper added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  