-- Visa, MasterCard Said to Near Accord on Swipe-Fee Lawsuit
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l   a n d   R o b e r t   S c h m i d t
-- 2012-07-06T17:08:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/visa-mastercard-said-to-near-accord-on-swipe-fee-lawsuit.html
Visa Inc. (V)  and  MasterCard Inc. (MA) , the
biggest payment networks, are prepared to settle a seven-year
lawsuit brought by retailers to cut their credit-card costs
later this month, three people briefed on the talks said.  Intensity of the talks has increased and a  settlement  may
come as soon as late next week, said two people with knowledge
of the matter. The deal may include payments to retailers and a
temporary cut in interchange rates or “swipe fees” tacked on
to each card purchase, said the people, who asked for anonymity
because they weren’t authorized to speak publicly.  Analysts at Morgan Stanley reported that top-level Visa and
MasterCard  executives  participated in talks on the agreement,
which the people said could still be delayed or collapse.  An accord would end a dispute that began in 2005, a year
before MasterCard’s  initial public offering  and three years
ahead of Visa’s. Merchants alleged the two firms violated
antitrust law by fixing swipe fees, which average 2 percent of
the purchase price. The proceeds go to card-issuing banks,
generating more than $40 billion a year for U.S. lenders.  The agreement would avert a trial set to begin in September
before U.S. District Judge John Gleeson in  Brooklyn , New York.
Investor speculation that a settlement may be at hand increased
after Morgan Stanley analysts led by Glenn Fodor issued a report
titled “Something appears to be brewing in Brooklyn.”  Visa Chief Executive Officer Joseph W. Saunders and  Chris McWilton , MasterCard’s president of U.S. markets, attended at
least one day of settlement talks in June, Fodor wrote.  Not Normal  “Our conversations with legal experts indicate that while
it is normal for a judge to mandate the parties to participate
in settlement discussions, it is not typically the norm for the
highest levels of management to attend,” the analysts wrote in
a June 25 note. “There is a very low likelihood of this case
going to trial, and these actions by the court support that.”  The involvement by top executives may indicate more complex
settlement terms such as changes to business practices, Portales
Partners LLC analysts led by Charles Peabody wrote in a report
today. The total paid by the networks and card-issuing banks may
be $6.5 billion to $10 billion, the Portales analysts wrote.  Erica Harvill, a spokeswoman for San Francisco-based Visa,
and MasterCard’s James Issokson in Purchase,  New York , declined
to comment on the timing of the settlement. Lawyers for the
plaintiffs including K. Craig Wildfang, of Robins, Kaplan,
Miller & Ciresi LLP, and Bart Cohen, of Berger & Montague PC,
declined to comment. Five other lawyers for the plaintiffs
didn’t respond to e-mails and phone calls. One person said an
accord make take longer than a week.  Legal Reserves  Visa, the world’s biggest bank-card network, had $4.28
billion in uncommitted funds set aside to cover litigation at
the end of March. No. 2 MasterCard took a $495 million charge in
the fourth quarter for its portion of a potential settlement,
according to a statement.  In February 2011, the defendants agreed that Visa would be
responsible for two-thirds of any settlement and MasterCard
would pay about one-eighth. Visa gained 25 percent this year in
New York  trading  through yesterday, and MasterCard advanced 19
percent.  The case is In re Payment Card Interchange Fee and
Merchant Discount Antitrust Litigation, 05-md-1720, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Schmidt in  Washington  at 
 rschmidt5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net . 