-- Vodafone Said to Appoint Antonio Coimbra to Lead Spain Unit
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2012-07-05T10:09:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/vodafone-said-to-appoint-antonio-coimbra-to-lead-spanish-unit.html
Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  named Antonio Coimbra as chief executive officer of its Spanish unit,
replacing Shameel Joosub, who has been appointed chief of the
mobile-phone company’s South African business, according to a
person with knowledge of the matter.  The appointment of Coimbra, who has been at Vodafone in
Portugal since 1992 and CEO of the Portuguese operations since
2009, will become effective Sept. 1, the person said, asking not
to be identified before an announcement. Francisco Roman will
continue as Vodafone chairman in Spain and  Mario Vaz , a director
in Portugal, has been named CEO of the unit, the person said.  Coimbra will need to revive dropping sales in Spain as
local consumers and companies cut spending amid the country’s
worst economic crisis in decades. Local operators including
 Telefonica SA (TEF) , Spain’s largest phone company, and Vodafone also
face higher competition from cheaper rivals such as  Jazztel Plc. (JAZ) 
Vodafone’s operating earnings in Spain plummeted 24 percent last
year, the worst performance of all European units.  The Spanish economy, which contracted for six quarters
beginning in 2008, entered a second recession in the first
quarter of 2012 after growing less than 1 percent last year. The
deterioration probably intensified in the second quarter, the
Bank of Spain said on June 27. The  International Monetary Fund 
and the European Union expect the economy to shrink 1.8 percent
in 2012. Unemployment has reached 24 percent, the highest in the
EU.  Client Losses  Vodafone lost more than 189,000 mobile customers in  Spain 
in April, the biggest lost by an operator after Telefonica,
bringing its market share down to 28.4 percent from 28.6 percent
in March, according to Spanish regulator CMT. Vodafone is
Spain’s second-biggest operator with about 17.7 million
customers.  The stock today dropped 0.1 percent to 180.35 pence as of
10:44 a.m. in  London , valuing Vodafone at 89 billion pounds
($139 billion).  Vodafone last month split its business in  Europe , its
largest market by sales, into two divisions, appointing Philipp Humm and Paolo Bertoluzzo to head the regional units as the
world’s second-largest mobile phone company revamps its
structure.  The reorganization is the third change to the operating
structure since 2008. The revamp allows Newbury, England-based
Vodafone to set out potential succession candidates to CEO
Vittorio Colao, people familiar with the matter said in May.  In  South Africa , Joosub will become co-CEO of Vodafone-
controlled  Vodacom Group Ltd. (VOD)  in September as Pieter Uys
resigned after four years.  Uys, who has worked at Vodacom since the company started in
1993, became CEO in October 2008. Joosub was managing director
of Vodacom’s South African unit at that time. He was named as
CEO of Vodafone’s Spanish unit in December 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  