-- Vodacom Chief Uys to Be Replaced by Vodafone Spain’s Joos
-- B y   S i k o n a t h i   M a n t s h a n t s h a
-- 2012-07-05T09:00:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/vodacom-chief-uys-to-be-replaced-by-vodafone-spain-s-joos.html
Vodacom Group Ltd. (VOD) , the biggest
provider of mobile-phone services in  South Africa , said Chief
Executive Officer Pieter Uys has resigned after four years and
will be succeeded by Shameel Joosub.  Joosub, currently CEO of Vodafone Spain, will become co-CEO
in September and Uys will leave Vodacom in March 2013, the
Johannesburg-based company, controlled by  Vodafone Group Ltd. (VOD) ,
said today in a statement published on the Stock Exchange News
Service.  Shares in Vodacom fell for the first time in five days,
declining less than 0.1 percent to 95.94 rand as of 10:19 a.m.
in Johannesburg.  Uys, who has worked at Vodacom since the company started in
1993, became CEO in October 2008. Joosub was managing director
of Vodacom’s South African unit at that time. He was named as
CEO of Vodafone’s Spanish unit in December 2010.  “Uys has done a good job transforming Vodacom into the
data era,” said Khulekani Dlamini, head of research at Cape
Town-based  Afena Capital  by phone. “Joosub understands the
South African context very well. He is well placed to help the
company effectively compete against its competitors, who are
becoming aggressive.”  Vodacom expanded its customer base to 47.8 million as it
spent 8.7 billion rand in the year through March, 37 percent
more than a year earlier. It increased its revenue from data by
24 percent to 7.6 billion rand, compared to total sales of 66.9
billion rand.  As the Vodacom enters a competitive era where smaller
operators Cell C (Pty) Ltd. and  Telkom SA Ltd. (TKG) ’s 8ta mobile arm
lure customers away, the company needs a different strategy,
said Dlamini, who helps manage about $2.4 billion, including
Vodacom shares.  To contact the reporter on this story: Sikonathi Mantshantsha in
Johannesburg at   sikonathim@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Kenneth Wong 
at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  