-- Vornado Buys 5th Ave. Space, Sells Washington, L.A. Sites
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t   a n d   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2012-07-06T16:08:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/vornado-to-buy-retail-stores-at-666-fifth-ave-for-710-million.html
Vornado Realty Trust (VNO)  said it agreed
to buy retail space on  New York ’s Fifth Avenue, the world’s
priciest shopping corridor, for about $707 million, and plans to
sell $428 million of properties across the U.S. and  Canada .  The purchase at 666 Fifth Ave. in  Manhattan  will be funded
with debt along with proceeds from asset sales, New York-based
Vornado said yesterday in a statement. The company will get net
proceeds of about $144 million from the sale of assets including
the  Washington  Design Center, the Boston Design Center and the
L.A. Mart, and a further $186 million from an agreement to sell
an office building in Washington, it said separately.  Vornado, which reported a 31 percent drop in funds from
operations in the first quarter, is seeking ways to boost its
share price and respond to shareholder complaints that its
structure is too complex, Chairman  Steven Roth  said in a letter
to investors in April. The real estate investment trust expects
to sell about $1 billion of assets by the end of 2012, Chief
Executive Officer Michael Fascitelli said at a conference last
month.  “Vornado is under pressure to show that they’re doing
something,”  Alex Goldfarb , an analyst at Sandler O’Neill &
Partners LP in New York, said in a phone interview. The deals
“help show the case that they are doing something. But I don’t
think anybody’s going to look at these transactions and say
‘Wow, Vornado’s turned a whole new page.’”  Mart Portfolio  The company’s Mart showroom holdings now “essentially”
will be reduced to the Merchandise Mart building in  Chicago  and
the Medical Mart convention center under construction in
 Cleveland , said Goldfarb, who has a hold rating on the stock.  Vornado fell 0.4 percent to $84.41 at 11:16 a.m. in New
York. The shares have fallen 12 percent in the past year.  The Fifth Avenue purchase should exceed the record of
$10,755 a square foot for New York store space, set by  SL Green
Realty Corp. (SLG)  and Jeffrey Sutton when they bought a 12,700-
square-foot (1,180-square-meter) Times Square building last
year, said Ben Thypin, director of market analysis at Real
Capital Analytics Inc.  Vornado’s 114,000-square-foot purchase also includes about
75,000 square feet that are part of the office portion of the
building, which it’s acquiring under a long-term lease,
according to the company’s statement. The company didn’t
disclose the price breakdown for the retail and office portions.  Record Price  The retail condominium at 666 Fifth Ave. is 49 percent-
owned by Crown Acquisitions and  Carlyle Group LP (CG) , while Kushner
Cos. has 51 percent.  Kushner bought the 41-story skyscraper near West 53rd
Street in January 2007 for $1.8 billion, then a record for a
single U.S. building. As  real estate values  were close to their
peak in 2008, the firm sold a stake in the retail portion to
Carlyle and Crown for $525 million. Kushner restructured the
debt on the property in December, making Vornado a partner on
the office portion.  Spanish retailer  Inditex SA (ITX)  bought a 39,000-square-foot
section of the space last year for $324 million, or about $8,300
a square foot, a record at the time. Inditex converted the
space, former home of the NBA Store, to a flagship for its Zara
clothing brand.  The Inditex and Vornado deals would bring the value of the
building’s retail space to more than $1 billion, Haim Chera, a
Crown principal, said in a telephone interview.  ‘Extremely Resilient’  “Fifth Avenue has been extremely resilient through the
downturn and continues to perform extremely well,” he said.
“Our business plan was to take it to the next level. We
searched the world for the best tenants for this property.”  Randy Whitestone, a spokesman for Carlyle, declined to
comment. A call yesterday to  Steve Solomon , a Kushner spokesman,
wasn’t returned.  Vornado made a pre-emptive offer just as  CBRE Group Inc. (CBG) 
Vice Chairman Darcy Stacom was preparing to market the property,
Chera said. Robert McGrath, a spokesman for Los Angeles-based
CBRE, declined to comment.  The portion Vornado is buying contains the U.S. flagship
store of Uniqlo, the Japanese clothier, which leased its space
for a record $300 million over 15 years. The other tenants are
watchmaker Swatch and Hollister, a youth-oriented apparel shop.
The purchase will probably be completed in the fourth quarter,
Vornado said.  The sales of the L.A. Mart and Canadian Trade Shows have
been completed, and the rest of the deals are expected to close
in the third quarter, Vornado said. It didn’t identify buyers.  The company also said it bought through its Vornado Capital
Partners LP investment fund a 167,000-square-foot retail
property on Lincoln Road in the South Beach section of  Miami
Beach ,  Florida , paying $132 million. The space is 97 percent
occupied, with tenants including Regal Cinemas and fashion
retailers Anthropologie and Banana Republic.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net ;
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  