-- VW Finds 1 Share Saves $1.1 Billion in Tax With Loophole
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   D o r o t h e e   T s c h a m p a
-- 2012-07-05T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/vw-finds-1-share-saves-1-1-billion-in-tax-with-loophole.html
For  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , what a difference
a share makes.  By paying the purchase price of 4.46 billion euros ($5.58
billion) plus 1 VW share for the 50.1 percent stake in  Porsche
SE (PAH3) ’s automotive business it doesn’t already own, the Wolfsburg,
Germany-based carmaker is avoiding an additional tax bill of
more than 900 million euros. The share payment allowed VW to
classify the deal as a restructuring rather than a takeover, a
tax-saving plan approved by German tax authorities.  The deal structure was in large part the brain child of
Michael Schaden, a press-shy tax lawyer at Ernst & Young in
Stuttgart, according to people familiar with the transaction.
The Heidelberg-trained lawyer, who is also an approved attorney
at law in  New York , has been one of Porsche’s closest advisers
for years, said the people, who asked not to be identified
because they were not authorized to discuss it publicly.  The restructuring idea paved the way for VW to proceed with
the transaction two years earlier than planned after reaching an
agreement with German tax authorities, the carmaker said late
Wednesday. The transaction also ends a seven-year takeover saga
that divided two of the most powerful families in Germany.  The proposal takes advantage of the so-called
Umwandlungssteuergesetz, or reorganization tax act, VW said in
its statement. The idea was developed in conjunction with about
half a dozen Porsche and VW law firms and accountants including
Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP and Flick Gocke Schaumburg,
according to German legal trade publication  Juve Verlag .  Transaction Taxes  VW will now pay “well over” 100 million euros in
transaction taxes on this deal, Chief Financial Officer Hans
Dieter Poetsch told reporters at a press conference yesterday at
VW headquarters in Wolfsburg. If VW had completed a traditional
takeover before August 2014, it would have resulted in at least
1 billion euros of taxes, Poetsch said in December 2010.  “This is actually great news for VW,” Credit Suisse
analyst  Arndt Ellinghorst  wrote in a note to clients, estimating
that the deal would increase the company’s earnings per share
by 7 percent. VW is effectively acquiring Porsche at an
enterprise value of about 11 billion euros, while the analyst
estimates its enterprise value to be about twice that.  The restructuring maneuver, applauded by legal and banking
advisers, has drawn the ire of some politicians.  ‘They’ve Been Had’  “When global companies can save billions with such tax
tricks, then every taxpayer has to feel like they’ve been had,”
 Rainer Bruederle , parliamentary leader of the Free Democratic
Party,  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s coalition partner, told German
business newspaper Handelsblatt yesterday. “Many skilled
workers can only dream of so much charity from the tax
offices.”  Volkswagen cited the taxes it was set to pay and called
Bruederle’s statement “irresponsible.”  “It’s populistic to talk of tax tricks and forbearance
from the authorities,” Stephan Gruehsem, spokesman for VW, said
in a statement. The idea of billions in evaded tax payments was
“utterly unfounded,” he said.  Schaden didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail message and
calls seeking comment.  The two companies had been working on a full-blown merger
since 2009, when Porsche failed in its attempt to take over VW,
which would have eliminated the holding company and given
Porsche shareholders a direct interest in the larger carmaker.
That goal was scrapped last September because of the lawsuits in
the U.S. and  Germany , claiming the carmaker secretly piled up VW
shares.  VW and Porsche advisers have been working on ways to find a
tax-beneficial structure to push forward with the merger since
the September rejection, one of the people said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Dorothee Tschampa in Frankfurt at 
 dtschampa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  