-- Wall Street Bank Investors in Dark on Libor Liability
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s ,   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r   a n d   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2012-07-05T19:44:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/wall-street-bank-investors-in-dark-on-libor-liability.html
Barclays Plc (BARC)  investors, blindsided by
the bank’s $451.4 million regulatory fine for trying to rig
benchmark rates, saw the stock drop 16 percent a day later.
Other bank shareholders may be just as surprised.  Barclays, like other lenders that help set key rates for
$360 trillion in securities, has given investors scant guidance
on the liability they face for alleged market manipulation. More
than a dozen banks are being probed by U.S., Asian and European
regulators for collusion in setting interbank lending rates. The
others have mirrored Barclays on minimal disclosure.  “The automatic reaction from investors is: ‘Who’s next?’”
said  Todd Hagerman , a New York-based analyst at Sterne Agee &
Leach Inc. who recommends investors remain “cautious” on the
biggest U.S. banks. “It’s fair to assume that legal and related
professional fees and associated reserves are going to continue
to remain elevated, if not increase.”  Bank of America Corp .,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc  and  UBS AG (UBSN)  are among the lenders whose
participation in setting the  London  and Europe interbank offered
rates, known as Libor and Euribor, are under investigation. None
of the banks would say if they set aside reserves to cope with
potential liabilities and, if so, how much.  “I believe that Barclays had previously reserved for only
about one-third of their ultimate liability” in regulatory
fines, Charles Peabody, a banking analyst at New York-based
Portales Partners LLC, said in an e-mail. Other banks’ reserves
“will probably prove inadequate.”  Biggest Banks  Barclays’s fines were the first in a two-year, inter-
continental investigation into manipulation of Libor and
Euribor, benchmarks used globally for setting borrowing rates.
Among the 18 lenders on the U.S. dollar panel are the three
biggest American banks,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , Bank of America
and Citigroup, as well as Barclays and Zurich-based UBS. The 16-
member British pound panel includes Barclays, UBS, JPMorgan and
Frankfurt-based  Deutsche Bank AG. (DBK)   “The two-year investigation into banks rigging Libor,
which has taken a toll on Barclays, has the potential to hurt
Citigroup, JPMorgan and Bank of America,” Mike Mayo, an analyst
at CLSA Ltd. in  New York , wrote in a July 2 research note. The
banks face risks of fines, lawsuits, negative news and new
regulations, according to Mayo.  “While there is no evidence that the three U.S. money-
center banks did anything wrong, there is a heightened
possibility of scrutiny after recent events at Barclays,” Mayo
said.  Limited Data  Barclays shareholders were notified of the  Libor probe ,
while getting little information on how much money was set aside
for potential fines and legal costs. First-quarter operating
expenses for the firm’s investment bank rose 4 percent to 2.14
billion pounds ($3.3 billion), reflecting a 115 million-pound
increase in provisions for legal and regulatory costs, partly
offset by non-performance cost savings, the bank said in an
April regulatory filing. The company didn’t specify whether any
of the increase was due to Libor-related provisions.  The regulatory fine is just the beginning for London-based
Barclays, which is a defendant in some of the 24 interrelated
Libor lawsuits that have been aggregated before U.S. District
Judge Naomi Reice Buchwald in  Manhattan  federal court.  “The global quantity of claims against Barclays as a
result of it having manipulated Libor, it could stretch from the
hundreds of millions into the billions,” said Robert Hickmott,
an attorney with Los Angeles-based Quinn Emanuel Urquhart &
Sullivan LLP. He said litigation in London may follow soon.  Punitive Damages  U.S. liabilities may be higher because American plaintiffs
are allowed to ask for punitive damages for bad conduct, while
the British are limited to compensatory awards, Hickmott said.  Criminal liability could be added to those regulatory fines
and civil lawsuits. The U.K. Serious Fraud Office said July 2
that it would decide within a month whether to open a criminal
investigation into Libor-fixing. The U.S.  Justice Department 
already is conducting a criminal probe into the attempted
manipulation of interbank-offered rates.  Barclays, in its accord with U.S. authorities, agreed to
cooperate with the joint British-American investigation in
exchange for a two-year non-prosecution agreement.  “Barclays’s cooperation has been extensive, in terms of
the quality and type of information and assistance provided, and
has been of substantial value in furthering the department’s
ongoing criminal investigation,” the Justice Department said in
a  statement  last week.  ‘Completely Lacking’  “Specific disclosure on litigation reserves for any Libor
suit settlements is completely lacking in any regulatory
filings,” Portales’s Peabody said, referring to all banks. “My
guess is that litigation reserves for civil suits from
municipalities, class action suits, etc. are non-existent.”  Lawsuits could be filed “by anyone stuck on the wrong side
of these transactions,” said Anthony Maton, an attorney at
Washington-based Hausfeld LLP, which is representing claimants
in the New York litigation and working on a British case to be
filed later this year. “Large corporate local authorities,
other banks and financial institutions on the wrong side of the
trades, pension funds, a very large variety of people that have
been affected by this.”  The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission, one of the
agencies investigating the Libor manipulation, said last week
that Barclays employees tried to manipulate Libor and Euribor by
making false interest-rate reports to increase derivatives-
trading profits and to decrease losses from 2005 to 2009.  Proof Difficult  Proving actual damages may be difficult for investors, said
Brad Hintz, a Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. analyst.  “The large fine is for attempting to move the market, not
for moving the market,” Hintz said. “The civil guys are going
to have to prove that the market was moved here.”  The extent of lenders’ liability may be difficult to
determine, Hintz said. Banks may argue that any derivatives
trading losses must be determined on a net basis, because such
trades typically are hedged.  Sterne Agee’s Hagerman said he didn’t think any of the big
U.S. banks had set aside reserves for Libor-related costs.  For bank stock investors “it hasn’t been top-of-mind,” he
said. “I’ve only received a couple phone calls about it and the
reaction has been surprise.”  David Kovel, an attorney who represents euro futures
traders in the New York federal court litigation, proposes to
represent a class including anyone involved in such trading
between August 2007 and May 2010, a number of traders he said
could be in the thousands. He declined to estimate the value of
the alleged damages.  ‘Large Impact’  “Even a 2- to 3-basis-point manipulation would have a
large impact on the product and the investors in that product,”
he said. A basis point is 0.01 of a percentage point.  Two days after the Barclays fine was announced, banks being
sued in New York filed motions asking Buchwald to dismiss
allegations against them. Exchange-based plaintiffs’ claims are
barred by lapse of time and extra-territoriality, lawyers for
lenders including Bank of America and Citigroup argued in one
filing.  “It is of course a mathematical truism that the published
index would have been different if higher or lower rates had
been reported by a sufficient number of banks,” lawyers for
those same lenders said in arguing against antitrust claims in a
different filing. “That might impact financial results to those
who chose to incorporate the index in their transactions, but
that is not a restraint of trade,” they wrote.  Dismissal Motion  Barclays, in its own brief, joined the other bank
defendants in asking Buchwald to throw out allegations against
it, excepting those contending the exchange-based plaintiffs had
made a case for market manipulation.  Jeffrey Shinder, an antitrust attorney with New York-based
Constantine Cannon LLP who has been following that Libor
litigation, said potential bank liabilities could be
“massive.”  “This is potentially the mother lode in terms of potential
damages,” he said.  While it’s not possible to predict a specific loss amount,
damages could be in the tens or hundreds of billions of dollars
if the lenders are found liable, Shinder said.  “Everyone in the industry knows if you knock down a few
basis points here and there billions of dollars shift between
counterparties,” Shinder said. Adjusting Libor up or down
affects the  interest rates  on scores of financial instruments.
“This is price-fixing,” he said.  Some Reserves  Bank of America  has said that as of March 31, costs from
litigation and regulatory matters could be as much as $4.2
billion beyond its accrued liability. The firm said that it sets
aside liabilities when losses are “both probable and
estimable.” The bank hasn’t said whether Libor liability fell
into that category.  Bill Halldin , a spokesman for the  Charlotte ,
North Carolina-based bank, declined to say whether it had.  U.S. laws generally require companies that issue securities
to disclose information that people reasonably would need to
make investment decisions. Regulators typically provide guidance
on their expectations without setting specific criteria on what
should be disclosed.  Authorities including the Securities and Exchange
Commission and the  Financial Accounting Standards Board  have
taken steps in the past two years to pressure banks to disclose
more information about potential costs from litigation as claims
mounted in the wake of the subprime-mortgage crisis. FASB, based
in Norwalk,  Connecticut , sets accounting rules for public
companies under authority delegated by the SEC.  International Probe  Royal Bank of  Scotland , which is majority owned by the U.K.
government, acknowledged the ongoing international probe in a
February report and said it’s cooperating with authorities
including the CFTC and Justice Department, the Financial
Services Authority and Japanese regulators.  “It is not possible to estimate with any certainty what
effect these investigations and any related developments may
have on the group,” Edinburgh-based Royal Bank of Scotland said
in a statement at the time.  UBS and Credit Suisse Group AG, Switzerland’s biggest
banks, declined to say what, if any, reserves they had set aside
for possible Libor-related liabilities. Deutsche Bank,  Germany ’s
biggest lender, also declined to comment on whether it has set
aside reserves.  Plaintiffs seeking to prove their cases against the banks
may be aided by studies whose “results imply that the Barclays
manipulation was probably successful and further imply that more
than just one bank was involved in the scheme,” Bernstein
analysts led by Hintz said in a June 29 report. Barclays and
regulators haven’t said the attempted manipulation succeeded.  “This is a major regulatory issue for the Libor banks that
will likely generate significant civil claims over the next four
to five years,” the analysts wrote. “Investors should not
minimize the importance of this matter.”  Barclays rose 1.3 percent to 168.20 pence in London
trading.  The multidistrict case is In Re Libor-based Financial
Instruments Antitrust Litigation, 11md2262, U.S. District Court
for the Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
Lindsay Fortado in London
at   lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 