-- Weidmann Says EU Summit Didn't Bring Clarity on Union
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-07-05T17:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/weidmann-says-eu-summit-didn-t-bring-clarity-on-union.html
European Central Bank Governing
Council member Jens Weidmann said the results of last month’s
European summit didn’t bring any clarity as to the direction the
monetary union is taking.  “A definitive judgment is difficult to make, because the
decisions taken leave a lot to interpretation,” Weidmann, who
is also president of  Germany ’s Bundesbank, said at an event in
Berlin today. “It remains unanswered whether the Maastrict
framework is still valid or whether more integration --
including giving up national sovereignty -- is being sought.”  European leaders meeting in Brussels last week agreed to
ease the path of countries including Spain and  Italy  to
financial aid, while agreeing to map out a timetable for
economic union by the end of the year. Those proposals may
include centralized bank oversight, better controls on national
budgets and possible moves toward joint borrowing.  “Fiscal aid should be the last resort of  crisis
management ,” Weidmann said. “This position has by now been
recognizably weakened.”  The Bundesbank has said the area can be stabilized either
by strengthening the original framework for monetary union with
joint rules for fiscal behavior -- set up under the Maastrict
treaty -- or by pushing on toward centralized control of each
other’s national budgets as part of a fiscal union.  ‘Crisis Management’  “Looking at the current crisis management constantly
raises the question of whether the existing framework is
sustainable,” Weidmann said. “We are removing ourselves ever
further from the Maastrict framework while constantly
mutualizing risks and weakening the agreed rules.”  Weidmann added that while a banking union “can in
principle be an important part of a stronger integration of
monetary union,” it shouldn’t be established before effective
joint supervision of the financial sector is created.  “A banking union is not a short-term instrument for the
resolution of existing problems,” Weidmann said. “It’s an
ambitious project,” which is no less important than monetary
union itself.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeff Black  in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  