-- Williams Beats Azarenka, Plays Wimbledon Final Against Radwanska
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-07-05T16:19:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/williams-beats-azarenka-plays-wimbledon-final-against-radwanska.html
Four-time singles champion  Serena Williams  fired a record 24 aces past  Victoria Azarenka  to move
to her first Wimbledon final in two years.  “I’m so excited,” Williams said after advancing to her
seventh final at the All England Club. “I’ve been working so
hard, I really wanted it. Victoria is a great player. She was
playing really well.”  The sixth-seeded American beat the reigning Australian Open
champion from Belarus, 6-3, 7-6 (8-6) on Centre Court. Williams
has now beaten Azarenka in eight of their nine meetings.  Williams plays third-seeded Agnieszka Radwanska in the
finals in two days. Radwanska, the first Polish woman to reach
the Wimbledon championship match in 75 years, beat  Germany ’s No.
8 seed  Angelique Kerber , 6-3, 6-4 in the other semifinal today.  Williams had served 61 aces on her way to the last four,
compared to 37 for the other three semifinalists combined.  The serve that’s helped her win 13 Grand Slam singles
titles worked well again today as Williams put Azarenka under
pressure from the start with slow, yet well-placed slice serves,
top spin kick serves, second-serve aces and aces of up to 119
miles-per-hour (191 kilometers-per-hour).  In the first set, Williams broke for a 5-3 lead with a
running backhand pass off a drop shot. Azarenka then lost her
first set of the championships with a forehand return into the
net.  8 Aces  Williams, who struck eight aces in the first set compared
to none for Azarenka, was leading 3-1 in the second set when the
No. 2 seed broke back on a backhand error. In the tiebreak,
Williams squandered her first match point with a drop shot that
sat up too high. She then clenched her fists and turned to her
box after she won the match with her 24th ace.  “I got a little tight in the second set,” said Williams,
who improved her previous Wimbledon women’s ace record set in
the third round by one. “I couldn’t relax, was looking too far
into the future. I can’t do that. I was just happy to get
through that second set tiebreak.”  Williams, 30, won the last of her major singles titles at
Wimbledon in 2010, before getting sidelined for a year with a
foot injury and surgery for blood clots. She’d entered the
grass-court Grand Slam after losing at the  French Open  in the
opening round, the first time in her career she failed to clear
the first hurdle of a major. Her sister and five-time champion
Venus lost in the opening round of Wimbledon last week, her
earliest exit since 1997.  The last time a woman over the age of 30 won a Grand Slam
title was at Wimbledon in 1990, when  Martina Navratilova  took
her ninth championship.  Azarenka  Azarenka is having a breakthrough season, winning six
titles including her first major at the Australian Open in
January. She was the only player to reach the semifinals without
dropping a set. Having held the No. 1 ranking for 19 weeks after
she won in  Melbourne , Azarenka lost the top spot to  Maria Sharapova  when the Russian won her first French Open title last
month. Azarenka would have reclaimed the No. 1 spot if she had
won today.  Radwanska, who recovered from a break down in the first
set, jumped up and down when she clinched victory as her German
opponent hit a shot wide on Centre Court.  “This has been a dream since I was a kid,” Radwanska, 23,
said afterwards. “We both were a bit nervous in the beginning.
After a couple of games, I relaxed a little bit.”  The Williams sisters both lost in the fourth round of
Wimbledon last year, which meant that for the first time since
2006 at least one of them wasn’t playing in the last eight. They
had dominated tennis’s All England Club for a decade, taking
nine singles titles between 2000 and 2010, and also won four
doubles championships together on the London grass courts.  “Radwanska, she’s doing unbelievable,” Williams said
about her next opponent, who made six errors in the first set
and only one in the second. “She’s going to get every ball
back.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at Wimbledon through the London newsroom
at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  