-- Wimbledon Members to Take Tea at Practice Courts During Olympics
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-07-05T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/wimbledon-members-to-take-tea-at-practice-courts-during-olympics.html
The 500 members of the private All
England Club will be taking their tea at the Wimbledon practice
courts instead of in the clubhouse as the Olympics move in.  They still must wear white.  The club, which organizes the annual Grand Slam tennis
championships, will be hosting the sport at the Summer Games for
the second time in its 135-year history.  After the men’s final on July 8, Wimbledon hands the keys
over to local organizers of the London Games, and everything
will be different by the time the Olympic tournament starts 20
days later.  “As soon as our championships are over, our members
essentially move out,” club Chairman Phil Brook said in an
interview in the All England board room. “There won’t be any
members using the clubhouse facilities for the three weeks in
the buildup to, and during the Olympics.”  The London Organizing Committee for the  Olympic Games , or
Locog, and the  International Tennis Federation  are in charge of
the sport’s most famous tennis venue through the end of the
games on Aug. 12. Locog pays for the makeover, though
spokeswoman Fran Edwards wouldn’t reveal the cost.  Twelve of the 19 championship courts will stage Olympic
matches, with the other seven used for practice. The club also
hosted tennis during the London Games in 1908, when it was based
on Worple Road. It’s now on Church Road in the Wimbledon area of
southwest London.  Aorangi Park  Members who want to play tennis will go to Aorangi Park, an
adjacent club-owned property used as practice courts during the
annual two-week tournament and not part of the Olympic site.
They’ll be able to take lunch and tea at Aorangi Pavilion, the
home of racket stringers and the practice booking desk during
the championships. They also must abide by the club’s
requirement that tennis attire be nearly all white, a rule that
will be dropped for the Olympic courts.  None of the members have complained so far about being
kicked out of their exclusive enclave, Brook said.  “Everybody understands the importance of it,” he said.
“Yes, there is arguably some inconvenience, but weigh that
against Olympic tennis to Wimbledon, it gets a tick in our
members’ minds in terms of something that is really good to do
for the sport.”  Wimbledon’s logo is purple and dark green, and the loudest
noise is often polite applause over a good shot. It will be full
of color, and even music, during the Olympics.  National Colors  Players will be able to wear their national colors on court
as long as the referee approves. Instead of public-address
updates about the weather, music will be played in the grounds,
and the Olympic rings -- blue, yellow, black, green and red --
will be everywhere. Medal ceremonies will include flags and
national anthems.  “It will be quite extraordinary,” Annabel Croft, a junior
Wimbledon champion in 1984 and now a broadcaster and member of
the All England Club, said in an interview. “It will never come
around in my lifetime again. Everything about it will look
different, the scoreboard will look different, it won’t really
look like Wimbledon. The venue will be the same, but it will be
transformed.”  It’s the first time since the sport returned to the
Olympics in Seoul 1988 that tennis will be played at a facility
not designed for the games, and that has caused some problems.  “Wimbledon is probably going to have the best facilities
of any Olympics, in terms of infrastructure,” Barbara Travers
of the ITF said in an interview at Wimbledon. “But there are
things that the Olympics mandates that are not the way Wimbledon
does things. So it will be slightly unusual.”  Quick Changes  After the men’s final on July 8, in-court commentary
positions for Olympic broadcasters will be built on Centre Court
and No. 1 Court.  Although Wimbledon’s press center has space for 800
journalists and a number of press conference and interview rooms,
it doesn’t have a media mixed-zone area, where every Olympic
athlete has to pass through as reporters ask questions.  “A mixed zone is not something we do in tennis,” said
Travers, who has overseen the media side of Olympic tennis since
Sydney in 2000. “In a normal Olympics, it would be built in
into the planning, but there is no natural place for a mixed
zone at Wimbledon.”  The mixed zone will be located at the press center terrace
behind Centre Court and opposite Court No. 14.  One thing at Wimbledon won’t be different -- the man who
mows the lawns.  Eddie Seaward, head groundsman at the All England Club for
23 years, will remain in charge of the grass courts during the
Olympics.  New Seed  “When the men’s final is over on Sunday night, we’ll
irrigate the court, and then get some seed in,” Seaward, 69,
said in an interview on Centre Court on a wet day in April.  Seaward and his staff have been doing trials in the past
year using pre-germinated seed -- a process that accelerates
growth -- to get the courts back in the best shape possible.  “I’m fairly confident that we’ll have a good court, it
shouldn’t feel any different for the players,” Seaward said.  Seaward, who will retire after the Olympics, said this year
is “a busy one.”  “The Olympics is the final game, set and match for me,”
he said. “It’s a nice way to go.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at Wimbledon through the  London  sports desk at
   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  