-- With Wal-Mart Locked Out, India’s Billionaires Rush In
-- B y   M a l a v i k a   S h a r m a
-- 2012-07-05T23:25:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/with-wal-mart-locked-out-india-s-billionaires-rush-in.html
Last December, Prime Minister
 Manmohan Singh  pledged to open India’s retail industry to
foreign giants such  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and  Carrefour SA. (CA)   Seven months later, the foreigners are still waiting,
stalled by populist politicians who say their arrival would
threaten the survival of India’s legions of small shopowners.
The delay has done little to change the perceived threat to mom
and pop shops, though, as local conglomerates controlled by
India’s richest families have been busy shoring up their
position in retail.  The Birla, Ambani, Tata and Raheja business houses -- which
already dominate sectors such as energy and automobiles --have
spent the past several months opening new outlets or taking over
existing retailers to gain an edge in an industry that Technopak
Advisors Pvt estimates will expand more than 40 percent to $725
billion by 2017.  “The attraction of the retail segment for most Indian
corporate houses is they see consumer-oriented industries as the
next logical platform for growth,” said Hemant Kalbag, head of
the consumer and retail practice for  Asia  at consultancy  A.T.
Kearney .  Stores and supermarkets are a switch from the traditional
businesses of India’s billionaires, most of whom got their start
in steel, oil, cotton, spices, and other commodities. Today, the
country’s wealthiest families are betting that they can prosper
by catering to a growing middle class seeking higher quality
goods in cleaner stores.  ‘Highest Earnings Potential’  A unit of billionaire Kumar Mangalam Birla’s  Aditya Birla
Group , which  produces  aluminum and copper, in April agreed to
buy part of  Pantaloon Retail India Ltd. (PF)  by purchasing 8 billion
rupees ($146 million) worth of debentures and taking on another
8 billion rupees in debt.  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) , primarily an  oil-refining 
business run by India’s richest man,  Mukesh Ambani , last month
 announced  a joint venture with Brooks Brothers to sell suits,
sportswear and accessories in India. That adds to the more than
1,300 Reliance stores offering products from groceries to Apple
computers.  Ambani, who ranks 22nd on the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index 
with a net worth of $21 billion, last month  pledged  to boost
revenue from his retail operations at least fivefold from the
current 76 billion rupees ($1.38 billion) within four years.
Reliance Retail will have some of the company’s “highest growth
rates and earnings potential,” Ambani told a June annual
meeting.  Political Opposition  DLF Ltd. (DLFU) , India  largest  real-estate developer based in
Gurgaon and run by billionaire Kushal Pal Singh, in May opened
its first retail outlet selling multiple brands. The company’s
retail unit, DLF Brands, plans to expand to as many as 500
stores in the next four or five years, said Dipak Agarwal, chief
executive for operations and strategy at DLF Brands.  Shoppers Stop Ltd. (SHOP) , a unit of billionaire Chandru Raheja’s
K Raheja Corp., added 54 new stores in the fiscal year ended
March 31, the most openings the company has ever made in a year.
 Trent Ltd. (TRENT) , a publicly traded unit of the  Tata Group  that
operates supermarkets and clothing stores, added 17 outlets in
the year ended March 2012.  India ’s government on Nov. 24 agreed to allow overseas
companies to own as much as 51 percent of supermarkets. Two
weeks later it reversed that decision because of political
opposition from critics who said the multinationals would
destroy mom-and-pop businesses.  In a December interview with Bloomberg, Prime Minister
Singh pledged to overcome that opposition, possibly after March
state government elections. That hasn’t materialized as his
Congress party faced a setback in the regional voting and
contended with surging inflation and a plunging rupee.  “I don’t sense any consensus has been built,” said Sonal Varma, India economist at Nomura Holdings Inc.  Indian Partners  An opening of the retail sector wouldn’t necessarily hurt
India’s big business houses. Overseas retailers will likely be
required to have local partners, giving Indian companies room to
negotiate tie ups. India allows global retailers with multiple
brands to have wholesale operations, although they can’t sell
directly to consumers. Existing partnerships in the wholesale
industry could extend into retail if the market opens.  Wal-Mart has 17 wholesale outlets in India, set up in
partnership with billionaire Sunil Mittal’s Bharti Enterprises
Pvt. Ltd. Bharti, which owns India’s largest mobile phone
operator,  Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI) , runs its own chain of over 170
Easyday supermarkets.  “Even if foreign companies are allowed they would like to
have a tie with somebody who is local,” said  Arun Kejriwal ,
director of Kejriwal Research. “It gives them access to the
Indian market, logistics, everything else at one shot.”  Indian conglomerates have said they support foreign
investment in retail. When the government in November said it
would allow the overseas brands in, Bharti issued a statement
praising the decision.  The conglomerates’ immediate payouts have been limited as
they invest in new stores. Reliance Industries’s 76 billion
rupees in retail revenue is a fraction of the conglomerate’s
total sales of 3.4 trillion rupees. Tata’s Trent had a loss of
377.6 million rupees in the fiscal year ended March, according
to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Small neighborhood stores still dominate Indian retail.
Foreign investment “is not going to really eradicate the nearby
shopowner,” said Kumar Rajagopalan, chief executive officer for
the Retailers Association of India. “If it had to happen it
would have happened even with the large business houses in the
country opening up more stores.” Organized retail, where
conglomerates such as Tata and Reliance operate, accounts for
just 6.5 percent of the retail sector, Technopak estimates.  “There is huge potential,” said Pranab Barua, head of
retail and apparel at Aditya Birla Nuvo Ltd. “Penetration is
very low even now for modern retail.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Malavika Sharma in  New Delhi  at 
 msharma52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  