-- TMX Hunt for CBOE Seen After Maple Approval
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 2012-07-05T21:09:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/tmx-hunt-for-cboe-seen-after-maple-approval-corporate-canada.html
TMX Group Inc. (X) , owner of the Toronto
Stock Exchange, should seek takeovers of global competitors such
as  CBOE (CBOE)  Holdings Inc. after its C$3.73 billion ($3.68 billion)
sale to a Canadian investor group cleared its biggest regulatory
hurdles, investor  Thomas Caldwell  said.  “You’re effectively the dominant exchange in Canada,”
said Caldwell, chairman and chief executive officer of Toronto-
based  Caldwell Securities Ltd. , and who owns shares in TMX and
CBOE. “I think you can go hunting, whether it be a CBOE or
taking a swing at  London .”  Maple Group Acquisition Corp., whose 12 members include
banks and pension funds, received approvals yesterday for its
takeover of TMX from Canada’s Competition Bureau and the Ontario
Securities Commission. The clearance moves a step closer to the
creation of an exchange that would control more than 85 percent
of Canada’s equities trading, the Montreal Exchange derivatives
bourse and the country’s main securities clearing house.  “I see the humor” in TMX potentially acquiring London
Stock Exchange Group Plc, Caldwell, 68, said yesterday in an
interview at Bloomberg’s Toronto office. Caldwell was the
second-largest owner in the  New York  Stock Exchange prior to its
demutualization. Through Caldwell Securities and  Urbana Corp. (URB) ,
he has also owned stakes in TMX, CBOE and the Bombay Stock
Exchange.  Scrapped Deal  TMX had an agreement last year to combine with  London Stock
Exchange (LSE) , which failed to get shareholder support and was
scrapped in June 2011. By October, TMX agreed to a transaction
with Maple.  Quebec ’s regulator approved Maple’s takeover of the
Canadian Depository for Securities Ltd. clearing house, late
yesterday. British Columbia and Alberta securities regulators
still need to rule on the deal.  TMX would be “wise to be spending their time looking at
acquisitions,” said Ian Bandeen, former head of the Canadian
National Stock Exchange, a competing bourse. “I wouldn’t be
surprised if they start with a North American acquisition and
then see what they can do from there, globally.”  Luc Bertrand, CEO of Maple Group, said pursuing takeovers
“is definitely part of the thinking” for Maple, whether it’s
targeting exchanges, risk-management firms, or data suppliers
outside  Canada .  “One of other main pillars or reasons for this transaction
was to create this company that will allow it to seek
opportunities outside Canada,” Bertrand said in a telephone
interview. “It’s going to be a very powerful platform from
which to do this.”  Chicago Experience  TMX owns a majority stake in the Boston Options Exchange
LLC, which earlier this year won approval to become a U.S.
securities exchange. The Canadian company already has 180
listings from U.S. businesses on its existing markets. BOX is
owned by TMX and seven brokers including Citadel LLC and
Interactive Brokers Group Inc.  TMX currently has a market value of C$3.6 billion. Chicago-
based CBOE has a market capitalization of $2.45 billion, while
LSE Group has a value of $4.24 billion. TMX fell 0.5 percent to
C$48.15 at the close in Toronto, 3.7 percent below Maple’s C$50-
a-share tender offer. TMX  gained  15 percent this year, compared
with an 8.2 percent increase for CBOE in New York and a 27
percent gain for LSE in London.  TMX CEO  Thomas Kloet  served on the boards of CBOE Futures
Exchange Inc. and the  Chicago  Stock Exchange before joining TMX
in 2008.  “Kloet’s  worked  in Chicago,” Caldwell said. “He
understands the options business, he understands the futures
business. So he can think now in those terms.”  Mike McHugh, a spokesman for CBOE, declined to comment on
the possibility of a TMX approach when reached yesterday by e-
mail during a U.S. holiday.  Clearing House  Maple, whose dozen members include  Bank of Nova Scotia ,
Canada Pension Plan Investment Board and  Manulife Financial
Corp. (MFC) , proposes to buy TMX and integrate the exchange owner with
the Canadian Depository clearing house and the bank-owned
exchange owner Alpha Group.  Maple’s transaction will combine Canada’s main stock
markets -- the Toronto Stock Exchange,  TSX Venture Exchange  and
Alpha Exchange -- along with the Montreal Exchange derivatives
bourse and the CDS securities clearing house under one company.  Maple plans initially to buy 70 percent to 80 percent of
TMX shares for C$50 each in a tender offer that expires July 31.  Failed Bids  Maple’s deal for TMX comes after a string of unsuccessful
global exchanges takeovers. Regulators scuttled more than $30
billion in exchange takeovers globally since Singapore Exchange
Ltd. launched a bid for  Australia ’s ASX Ltd. in October 2010
amid public calls to maintain domestic control of  stock trading ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That includes Deutsche
Boerse AG’s transaction with NYSE Euronext, and the hostile
offer by Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. and IntercontinentalExchange Inc.
for the New York Stock Exchange owner.  “I don’t think the Maple Group has any ambitions to merge
in any non-Canadian groups into TMX,” Cameron Webster, who
helps manage C$200 million at Sandstone Asset Management Inc. in
Calgary, said in a phone interview. “It’s been a highly
profitable business from the get-go, so I think they’re focused
on that as an attractive asset.”  Still, global exchanges such as TMX may seek the economies
of scale that come with cross-border mergers, Webster said.  “It’s just a larger monopoly for the banks, that seems to
be the decision that the competition bureau’s comfortable
with,” he said. “The flipside of it is that there’s global
pressure on exchanges to consolidate.”  Acquisition Hunt  Kloet said in a June 25 interview in London that he’s open
to starting a U.S. bourse to attract listings from small- and
medium-sized companies. The company is looking for acquisitions,
Kloet said.  “Maple has never discouraged us from looking,” Kloet
said, declining to be more specific. “We are keeping a sharp
pencil and will look at a wide variety of things.”  William Brodsky , CBOE CEO, said June 8 that the company is
looking for internal growth, though it would consider takeovers.  “There is value to consolidation because there are
synergies, and so we we’ll be opportunistic, we’ll do what’s
best for our shareholders,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net ;
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  