-- Yuan Declines on Weaker Reference Rate, Europe’s Debt Concern
-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 2012-07-05T02:59:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-05/yuan-declines-on-weaker-reference-rate-europe-s-debt-concern.html
The  yuan  dropped after policy makers
weakened the daily fixing amid concern Europe’s debt crisis is
slowing global growth, prompting some analysts to cut forecasts
for appreciation in the currency.  The central bank lowered the yuan’s  reference rate  by 0.11
percent, the most since June 25, to 6.3193 against the greenback.
The Dollar Index  climbed  the most in two weeks as reports showed
services and manufacturing in the euro area shrank in June for a
fifth month. The People’s Bank of China will probably curb
currency gains as the economy slows, said Andy Ji, a Singapore-
based strategist at  Commonwealth Bank of Australia , the most-
accurate forecaster of the yuan in the past six quarters.  “Asian currencies, including the yuan, are weaker today on
disappointing data from  Europe ,” said Kenix Lai, a Hong Kong-
based foreign-exchange analyst at Bank of East Asia Ltd.
“Investors’ risk appetite remains fragile as they aren’t
expecting global growth to regain momentum anytime soon.”  The yuan fell 0.09 percent to 6.3533 per dollar as of 10:46
a.m. in Shanghai, according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade
System. The currency is allowed to trade as much as 1 percent on
either side of the daily reference rate. One-month implied
volatility, a measure of exchange-rate swings used to price
options, was unchanged at 1.625 percent.  Commonwealth Bank’s Ji said in an interview this week that
he’s currently reviewing forecasts for the yuan and will
probably trim estimates.  South Africa’s central bank is considering adding the yuan
as one of its reserve currencies because of increasing trade
between the two nations, Deputy Governor  Daniel Mminele  said in
 Pretoria  yesterday.  In  Hong Kong ’s offshore market, the yuan weakened 0.11
percent to 6.3540 per dollar. Twelve-month non-deliverable
forwards were unchanged at 6.4015, a 0.76 percent discount to
the onshore spot rate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  