-- Abe’s Inflation Exceeds Merkel’s After 14-Year Lag
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2013-03-26T03:18:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/abe-s-inflation-exceeds-merkel-s-after-14-year-lag.html
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s pledge
to halt falling prices has caused bond investors’ expectations
for inflation to surpass  Germany ’s by the most on record, after
14 years in which  Japan ’s living costs have lagged behind.  The five-year  break-even rate  in Japan, the difference
between yields on inflation-linked bonds and conventional notes,
rose to 1.54 percentage points this month and exceeded Germany’s
by as much as 33 basis points, the most in data compiled by
Bloomberg going back to 2009. This year, Japan’s rate has
climbed at the fastest pace globally after that of the U.K.  Japan’s so-called linkers are set to post the biggest
quarterly return in almost two years. The securities gained even
as actual  consumer prices , which haven’t risen faster than
Germany’s since 1999, are forecast to have fallen 0.7 percent in
February, according to economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News .
Investor sentiment turned around as Abe called for limitless
cash provision to generate 2 percent annual price gains.  “The market is encouraged by the direction of where things
are going in terms of seriousness to overcome deflation,” said
Anton Heese, the global head of inflation research in London at
Morgan Stanley. “The market is not pricing in the possibility
that the target will be achieved, but investors are starting to
price in more sizable possibility of that happening.”  Kuroda’s Stance  Bank of Japan (8301)  Governor Haruhiko Kuroda said in parliament
today the BOJ will consider buying more government bonds with
longer maturities and scrapping a self-imposed rule limiting the
scale of asset buying to defeat deflation. He said at his
inaugural press conference on March 21 that the central bank has
to achieve its 2 percent inflation target through measures
including lowering the entire  yield curve  through “decisive
monetary easing.”  Germany’s consumer prices have risen at an annual average
of 1.6 percent since 1999, compared with a 0.3 percent decline
in Japan. The euro region’s biggest economy  grew  by 36 percent
on a nominal, local-currency basis during the period, while
Japan’s  gross domestic product  shrank 7.1 percent.  Chancellor
Angela Merkel  has been in Germany’s top office since 2005, while
Abe, who took power in December, is the nation’s seventh premier
in six years.  The Asian nation’s linkers have returned 2.78 percent this
year, poised to complete the biggest quarterly gain since the
second quarter in 2011, according to a Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index. Germany’s inflation-linked securities have lost
0.32 percent.  “Japan’s disinflation is deep-rooted,” said Teruyoshi Sotome, a Tokyo-based senior bond strategist at Mizuho
Securities Co. “It’ll be very hard for the BOJ just to keep
these expectations that markets have already priced in.”  Australian Samurai  Elsewhere in Japan’s credit markets, National Australia
Bank Ltd. registered to sell 500 billion yen ($5.3 billion) of
Samurai bonds, according to a filing yesterday with the Ministry
of Finance. The registration takes effect April 2 and is valid
for two years.  Samurai notes, which are yen-denominated securities offered
in Japan by overseas borrowers, have handed investors 0.24
percent this month, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index data. Japanese corporate bonds have returned 0.31 percent,
while company debt worldwide has gained 0.26 percent.  Five-year credit-default swaps that insure Japan’s
sovereign debt rose to 71.7 basis points yesterday, the highest
since Feb. 27, according to data provider CMA, which is owned by
McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market. An increase in the contracts
signals worsening perceptions of creditworthiness.  Bonds Gain  Longer-maturity debt led gains in Japanese  government bonds 
in the past two sessions, indicating inflation is of little
concern to domestic investors.  Twenty-year bond yields dropped to as low as 1.41 percent
today, a level unseen since July 2003, while 30-year yields
reached 1.545 percent, the lowest since August 2010. The
benchmark 10-year rate touched 0.525 percent, the least since
June 2003, when it reached a record 0.43 percent.  The yen has weakened more than 17 percent against the
dollar in the past six months, the biggest loser among major
currencies, as speculation that the BOJ will carry out cash
infusions mounted. It touched 96.71 per dollar on March 12, the
weakest since August 2009, and traded at 94.27 as of 11:58 a.m.
in  Tokyo . Currency depreciation typically helps boost exporters’
competitiveness while making imports more expensive.  Imports Pricier  Prices for  imported goods  climbed 13.2 percent in February
from a year earlier following an 11 percent jump in January.
They’re the first back-to-back, double-digit gains since August
2011. The world’s third-largest economy will probably grow by at
least 2.2 percent every quarter through March 2014, according to
economist estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Japan’s break-even rate has advanced 55 basis points this
year, the biggest increase after the U.K. among countries
tracked by Bloomberg. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.
The Asian country’s Ministry of Finance, which suspended sales
of linkers in August 2008, is planning to resume issuance in the
year starting April 1, with a guarantee of principal in case the
inflation rate declines.  Japan will raise the nation’s 5 percent sales tax to 8
percent in 2014 and further to 10 percent in 2015. BOJ policy
makers  forecast  consumer prices less fresh food will rise 2.9
percent in the year starting April 2014, while they estimate a
0.9 percent gain in the so-called core-inflation rate excluding
the impact of the planned tax increase.  Positive Factors  Jasper Falk, the head of global inflation trading in  London 
at JPMorgan Chase & Co., cited tight supply, a weaker yen and
the planned guarantee on new Japanese linkers among the reasons
for the higher inflation expectations.  “All these factors and the changing macro story are
positive for the market, and hence the rally,” said Falk. “The
government is really keen on changing what has become a cultural
mindset for the last 20 years in Japan that prices don’t go
up.”  Masaaki Shirakawa said at his last media briefing as BOJ
governor on March 19 that there’s a “negative bubble,” in
which people are excessively pessimistic in Japan. The country
was slow in adjusting its economic and fiscal structure to a
rapidly aging society and globalization, causing economic
stagnation, he told reporters.  Prime Minister Abe has counted “bold” monetary policy as
one of the three pillars of his economic measures, known as
Abenomics. The other two are “flexible” fiscal policy and
growth strategies.  “Consumers are concerned about whether they can repay
their mortgage or receive their pension, and there has been no
policy package that addresses these worries about future,” said
Tadashi Matsukawa, who helps oversee $1.4 billion in assets
including Japanese linkers as head of fixed income investment at
PineBridge Investments Japan Co. in Tokyo. “Abenomics was born
amid skepticism, and it’s just starting to climb the wall of
doubt.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net ;
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net ;
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  