-- Maguire Planning Bid for Remaining MPG Buildings in L.A.
-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 2013-03-26T20:31:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/maguire-planning-bid-for-remaining-mpg-buildings-in-l-a-.html
Robert F. Maguire III is planning a
bid for the remaining  Los Angeles  office buildings owned by  MPG
Office Trust Inc. (MPG) , the company he helped found in 1965 and left
43 years later. The shares rose the most in eight months.  Maguire and a group of investors are looking to buy the
four downtown buildings still on the market -- the Gas Company
Tower at 555 West Fifth St.; Wells Fargo Tower and  KPMG  Tower,
both on South Grand Avenue; and 777 Tower on South Figueroa
Street, he said. He estimates the portfolio value at about $2
billion, including debt, and wouldn’t say how much he’ll bid.  “There are lots of exciting things happening downtown,”
Maguire, 77, said in a e-mail. “The future is very positive. As
a result, we plan to bid on the MPG portfolio.”  The Los Angeles-based company has been selling buildings to
pay debt incurred in 2007, when it bought 24 properties and 11
development sites from  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  for about $2.88
billion. The company had about $1.9 billion of debt as of Dec.
31, including about $638 million maturing this year on the KPMG
and 777 towers, according to its annual report filed last week.
It doesn’t have committed sources of cash adequate enough to
fund its potential needs, the company said in the filing.  Peggy Moretti, an MPG spokeswoman, didn’t return a
telephone call seeking comment on Maguire’s planned bid.  MPG rose 7.6 percent to $2.70 at the close of  New York 
trading. It was the biggest increase since July 26.  Tallest Building  Earlier this month, MPG agreed to sell Los Angeles’s U.S.
Bank Tower, the West Coast’s tallest office building, for $367.5
million to Singapore-based  Overseas Union Enterprise Ltd. (OUE)  MPG
expects net proceeds of about $103 million, some of which may be
used toward debt payments coming due this year, according to its
annual report.  Maguire founded Maguire Partners, a predecessor company to
MPG, 48 years ago and took Maguire Properties public in 2003. He
made a $745 million buyout offer in April 2008 that was
rejected, with a special committee of the board saying the bid
was “subject to numerous, substantial contingencies and
questions.” Maguire resigned in May 2008, and the company
changed its name to MPG in 2010. Maguire is now chief executive
officer of  Santa Monica , California-based Maguire Investments.  The Maguire-led group would plan to refurbish parts of the
remaining MPG portfolio, including common areas, to increase
occupancy, he said. Vacancies at MPG’s downtown properties were
21.6 percent as of Dec. 31, according to the company’s annual
report. Office vacancies in  downtown Los Angeles  were 17.8
percent in the fourth quarter, brokerage Jones Lang LaSalle Inc.
said.  Maguire said he’s close to having financing lined up, and
the transaction could close within six months should the group
get the required two-thirds vote from preferred shareholders.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in Los Angeles at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  