-- Allot U.S. Drop Swells Tel Aviv Premium: Israel Overnight
-- B y   L e s l i e   P i c k e r
-- 2013-03-27T13:41:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/allot-u-s-drop-swells-tel-aviv-premium-israel-overnight.html
Allot (ALLT)  Communications Ltd. dropped
to the lowest level in more than a year in  Tel Aviv  today after
speculation the European recession is limiting orders sent the
Israeli company’s U.S. stock lower.  Shares of Allot, which makes technology used by
telecommunications providers to track wireless traffic, declined
4 percent to 46.5 shekels, or the equivalent of $12.77, the
lowest level since October 2011, at the close in Tel Aviv. Allot
resumed trading on the Tel-Aviv Stock Exchange after the two-day
holiday at a premium of 58 cents to the U.S., from 38 cents a
week ago, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Allot has announced two product orders in 2013, fewer than
is needed for a “healthy quarter,” according to Needham & Co.,
which rates the stock buy. The Hod Hasharon, Israel-based
company got four orders in 2012, according to its website, as
the euro-area economy shrank 0.6 percent amid its debt crisis.
 Europe  accounted for 38 percent of Allot’s revenue in 2012.  “Those two orders on a standalone basis don’t move the
needle very much,” Matthew Robison, an analyst at Wunderlich
Securities Inc. in San Francisco who rates Allot hold, said by
phone yesterday. “We may be looking at another six months
before the backlog starts to build again.”  The U.S.-traded shares slipped 3 percent this week through
yesterday in New York to $12.78, the steepest drop on the
 Bloomberg Israel-US Equity Index (ISRA25BN)  after  Check Point Software
Technologies Ltd. (CHKP)  and  Orbotech Ltd. (ORBK)   Indian Order  Allot announced an order from India’s  Tata Communications
Ltd. (TCOM)  Feb. 20, stoking speculation of further sales in  emerging
markets . The Israeli technology company said Feb. 11 that it
received a $6 million contract to be implemented over several
years with a  mobile operator  in the Europe, Middle East and
Africa region.  The shares have tumbled 54 percent in New York through
yesterday from a record high reached June 20 on concern the
global slowdown will sap sales and erode demand for its
products. Analysts are projecting the company’s adjusted
earnings per share in the first quarter will be  9.2 percent 
lower than a year ago, according to the mean of 11 estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  “It’s been slow sledding here in the first quarter and
we’re still looking for proof that there will be acceleration
going into the second half,” Alex Henderson, an analyst at
Needham in  New York , said by phone yesterday.  Allot fell for a sixth day in Tel Aviv, the longest stretch
of declines since Nov. 20. The shares were the second-biggest
decliners on a percentage basis on the TA-100 Index, which
slipped 0.4 percent at 1,107.23.  The Bloomberg Israel-US index was little changed at 90.17
yesterday. Israeli markets close early today and tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Picker in New York at 
 lpicker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  