-- Apollo Real Estate Said to Seek Sale of Manila Office Towers
-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r   a n d   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2013-03-26T10:12:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/apollo-real-estate-said-to-seek-sale-of-office-towers-in-manila.html
Billionaire Leon Black’s  Apollo
Global Real Estate  is selling its controlling stake in five
office towers in one of  Manila ’s prime business districts,
according to two people familiar with the matter.  Apollo’s portfolio includes office buildings in  Bonifacio 
Global City, a business district in the  Philippines ’ capital,
the people said, asking not to be identified because the
discussions are private. The towers, built by  The Net Group ,
have a gross leasable area of 147,000 square meters (1.6 million
square feet), or about a quarter of the office supply in the
business district as of 2011, according to a marketing document
obtained by Bloomberg News, which cited an estimate from a unit
of Colliers International.  Strong demand combined with the growing outsourcing
industry is expected to drive growth for the Philippine office
market, the sales document showed. Bonifacio Global City is
positioned to benefit from the tight office supply in the other
two central business districts, Makati and Ortigas Center,
according to the document.  “Most of the office demand comes from outsourcing and it’s
growing,” said  James Lago , Manila-based head of research at
PCCI Securities Brokers Corp. “The expansion of the domestic
businesses where banks are fighting tooth and nail for available
branch locations is adding to the demand.”  HSBC, JPMorgan  Carlos Rufino, the president of Manila-based Net Group
which owns a 10 percent stake in the five towers, said his
company is open to retaining its stake in the buildings,
declining to elaborate. Melissa Mandel Kvitko, a spokeswoman at
Rubenstein Associates Inc., which represents Apollo, declined to
comment.  The towers on sale include the Net Plaza, Net Quad, Net
Cube, Net Square and Net One Center which are fully leased, the
document showed. The tenants include  Accenture Plc (ACN) , HSBC
Holdings Plc, Deutsche Bank AG and JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
according to the marketing document.  Apollo Global Real Estate (APO) , which has about $9 billion of
assets, is the property investment arm of New York-based Apollo
Global Management LLC, a global alternative investment manager
with $113 billion in assets run by Black, who was a co-founder
of the company.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pooja Thakur in Singapore at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net ;
Devin Banerjee in  New York  at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tomoko Yamazaki in Singapore at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net  