-- Argentina Loses Bid for Full-Court Rehearing on Bonds
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   K a t i a   P o r z e c a n s k i
-- 2013-03-26T18:35:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/argentina-loses-bid-for-full-court-rehearing-on-bonds.html
Argentina ’s request that the full
federal appeals court in New York reconsider a ruling by a
three-judge panel was denied in a case involving $1.3 billion in
defaulted bonds.  The U.S. Court of Appeals in  Manhattan  today said the full
court won’t rehear the appeal, leaving in place an Oct. 26
ruling that bars Argentina from treating restructured-debt
holders more favorably than holders of the repudiated debt. The
court is separately considering a related appeal, argued last
month, about the details of how a lower court may enforce the
October ruling.  Argentine dollar bonds due in 2033 dropped 1.16 cents to
54.8 cents on the dollar at 2:10 p.m. in  New York . That’s the
lowest intraday price since Nov. 29, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Argentina defaulted on a record $95 billion in debt in
2001. Holders of about 91 percent of the bonds agreed to take
new exchange bonds in 2005 and 2010, at a deep discount. The
country claims that a ruling forcing it to pay creditors who
hold defaulted bonds, led by Elliott Management Corp.’s NML
Capital Ltd., would open it up to more than $43 billion in
additional claims it can’t pay and trigger a new default.  Default Protection  The cost to protect against an Argentine default in the
next five years surged 374 basis points, or 3.74 percentage
points, to 3,498 basis points, the highest since March 1. The
swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying
securities or the cash equivalent should a borrower fail to
adhere to its debt agreements.  In October, the appeals court affirmed a decision by U.S.
District Judge Thomas Griesa that an equal-treatment, or pari
passu, clause in the original bond agreements prevents Argentina
from treating holders of defaulted bonds less favorably than the
holders of the restructured bonds. The appeals court also said
Griesa may bar Argentina from paying on the restructured debt
without also making payments on the defaulted bonds.  On Feb. 27 the three-judge panel denied Argentina’s request
to rehear the appeal. In a related appeals court argument in the
case the same day, a lawyer for Argentina told the same three
judges that the nation will default on the restructured debt if
it’s forced to also pay holders of the defaulted bonds.  State Law  Because the pari passu ruling is based on New York State
contract law, it’s unlikely the issue will be considered by the
U.S. Supreme Court, the highest federal appeals court.  The parties argued on Feb. 27 over Griesa’s formula for
paying the defaulted bonds and whether his order will apply to
third parties, including  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. , the
indenture trustee for the restructured bonds. The court hasn’t
said when it will rule.  The appeals court on March 1 directed Argentina to provide
a suggested formula for paying the holders of defaulted bonds.
The court said Argentina’s lawyer, in the Feb. 27 oral argument,
“appeared to propose” an alternative to the formula devised by
Griesa.  In November, Griesa said Argentina must pay the entire $1.3
billion claimed by the defaulted-bond holders whenever it makes
any payment on its restructured debt.  Full-court rehearings are granted by the New York-based
appeals court in only about 0.03 percent of cases from 2000 to
2010, according to a 2011 study by the Federal Bar Council.  The lower court case is NML Capital Ltd. v. Republic of
Argentina, 08-06978, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
New York (Manhattan). The appeal is NML Capital Ltd. v. Republic
of Argentina, 12-00105,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Second
Circuit (New York).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in the U.S. Court of Appeals in New York at
   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
Katia Porzecanski in New York at 
 kporzecansk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  