-- Marriott International Loses Appeal in Eden Roc Suit
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-03-26T22:08:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/marriott-international-loses-appeal-in-eden-roc-suit.html
Marriott International Inc. (MAR) , the
largest publicly traded U.S. hotel chain, lost an appeal in its
lawsuit against the owners of the Eden Roc Renaissance Hotel in
Miami Beach,  Florida .  The owners of the 57-year-old Eden Roc sued Bethesda,
Maryland-based Marriott in April, saying the company mismanaged
the property after they invested more than $300 million in the
hotel, including a $240 million renovation. Marriott sued the
owners in the same court six months later, accusing them of
attempting a hostile takeover.  New York State Supreme Court Justice Melvin L. Schweitzer
granted Marriott a preliminary injunction in November and urged
the two sides to resolve the case. In a decision released today,
an appeals panel in  Manhattan  reversed Schweitzer’s order and
vacated the preliminary injunction.  “The parties’ detailed management agreement places full
discretion with plaintiffs to manage virtually every aspect of
the hotel,” the appeals court said in its decision. “Such an
agreement, in which a party has discretion to execute tasks that
cannot be objectively measured, is a classic example of a
personal services contract that may not be enforced by
injunction.”  The 21-floor, 631-room art deco hotel opened in 1956 and
has hosted celebrities including Elizabeth Taylor, Katherine
Hepburn and Humphrey Bogart, according to its  website .  Lapidus Design  The hotel, which was featured in several episodes of the
1950s television show “I Love Lucy,” was designed by architect
Morris Lapidus, who also designed the neighboring Fontainebleau.  The ruling shows that ownership “has the absolute right to
remove Marriott from the property if it so desires,” Todd
Soloway, an attorney for owner Eden Roc LLLP with Pryor Cashman
LLP, said in a telephone interview. Marriott is currently
managing the property under its Renaissance brand and Eden Roc
LLLP hasn’t yet determined how to proceed, he said.  “This decision vindicates the owner’s absolute right to
control its own property and its own hotel in which it has a
huge investment,” Soloway said. “It bars hotel managers like
Marriott from commandeering the owner’s property.”  Marriott spokesman Jeff Flaherty didn’t immediately comment
on the decision in an e-mail.  The case is Marriott International Inc. v. Eden Roc LLLP,
653590/2012,  New York  State Supreme Court, New York County
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court at 
8969 or  cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  