-- Latvia Not Expecting Rise in Deposits After Cyprus, Premier Says
-- B y   A a r o n   E g l i t i s
-- 2013-03-26T14:47:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/latvia-not-expecting-rise-in-deposits-after-cyprus-premier-says.html
Latvian Prime Minister Valdis Dombrovskis said the Baltic country won’t see a surge in non-
resident deposits due to the  crisis in Cyprus .  The island nation struck a deal yesterday as part of a 10
billion-euro ($12.9 billion) loan from the European Union, the
 International Monetary Fund  and the  European Central Bank  that
will mean losses on uninsured deposits and the closing of the
country’s second-biggest bank.  Russian companies and individuals have $31 billion of
wealth in Cyprus, Moody’s Investors Service estimated, where
total banking sector assets were seven times the country’s 18
billion-euro economy in January, data from the ECB and the EU’s
statistics office shows. Non-resident deposits in Latvian banks
rose 16.8 percent in the fourth quarter from a year earlier to
6.1 billion lati ($11.2 billion), almost half of all system
deposits, according to the Latvian bank regulator.  “For now, we don’t forecast a meaningful rise in flows of
non-resident money in the context of the Cyprus situation,”
Dombrovskis said in a news conference in Riga today.  The ECB contacted Latvia to warn against taking in large
deposits exiting Cyprus, saying it could effect the nation’s
euro bid for next year, Reuters reported yesterday, citing an
unnamed euro-area central banker.  “I know that the ECB has been in touch about the non-
resident deposits in the Latvian banking system and the Latvian
side has given its assurances,” Martins Gravitis, a spokesman
at the Latvian central bank, said in an e-mail today. Gravitis
said he couldn’t comment on the report that this could effect
the country’s euro bid.  The  Latvian bank regulator  sent a letter to the country’s
commercial banks asking them to focus on evaluating the quality
of clients and financial flows instead of the quantity,
spokeswoman Laima Auza said in an e-mail. Cyprus saw deposit
outflows of about 1.7 billion euros in January, while Latvian
non-resident deposits only grew by 130 million euros in that
month, Auza said in the e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Eglitis in Riga at 
 aeglitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  