-- Bank of Spain Says Recovery in Sight If Austerity Softened
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2013-03-26T12:54:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/bank-of-spain-says-recovery-in-sight-if-austerity-is-softened.html
The Bank of Spain said the euro
region’s fourth-largest economy is set to stabilize at the end
of the year unless the European Union prescribes stricter
austerity.  “The Spanish economy may already be overcoming the most
 acute  phase of its recession,” the Madrid-based central bank
said in its  monthly bulletin  today. It predicts the economy will
shrink 1.5 percent this year before growing 0.6 percent in 2014.
That compares with a European Commission forecast for a 1.4
percent contraction and growth of 0.8 percent.  While the Bank of Spain said indicators suggest the
recession has slowed in the first quarter, Prime Minister
 Mariano Rajoy  is backtracking on a pledge to end a six-year
slump in the second half of the year. The government has asked
the European Commission to raise its deficit targets before it
submits new  budget  plans through 2014 next month.  Growth may be hurt in the short term if Spain is required
to cut its deficit below 6 percent of gross domestic product,
even as temporary income-tax increases approved last year should
be extended into 2014 to avoid it’s swelling, the Bank of Spain
said. The central bank forecasts the nation’s public deficit
will narrow to 6 percent of gross domestic product this year
from 10 percent last year, including European aid to the banking
sector, and remain at 5.9 percent in 2014.  Investor Confidence  Spain ’s medium-term budget plans will be key to boosting
investor confidence in the country’s economy, a positive factor
for growth, the Bank of Spain said. The plan should include
measures to tackle the impact of an aging population on public
finances, it said, adding that the country still needs
significant fiscal adjustment to stabilize its public-debt load.  The Bank of Spain predicts unemployment will peak at 27.1
percent this year. Domestic demand will drop 3 percent, even as
the decline slows in the next quarters, it said. Exports are
forecast to rise 3.8 percent in 2013 after a 3.1 percent
increase last year.  The Bank of Spain said its forecasts should also be treated
with “special caution” given the level of uncertainty
regarding Spain’s funding costs in financial markets. It
predicts average 10-year borrowing costs will fall to 5.1
percent this year from 5.8 percent in 2012. The central bank
updates its economic forecasts once a year.  The yield on Spain’s  10-year benchmark bonds  was at 4.93
percent at 1:37 p.m. in  Madrid , one basis point higher than its
March 15 level, before EU finance ministers sparked market
turmoil by agreeing to tax Cypriot bank deposits in exchange for
a bailout.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  