-- Barclays Investigating Singapore Private Banker After Firing
-- B y   S a n a t   V a l l i k a p p e n
-- 2013-03-26T08:01:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/barclays-investigating-singapore-private-banker-after-dismissal.html
Barclays Plc (BARC)  dismissed a Singapore-
based private banker and is helping authorities investigate
potential wrongdoing affecting clients’ assets.  The banker was fired on Feb. 6 and the company is working
with the white-collar crime investigation agency of the
Singapore police force to probe the matter, according to Eugenia
Koh, a Singapore-based spokeswoman for Barclays.  The British bank dismissed Jagdish Kale, who handled
accounts of non-resident Indian customers, for alleged misuse of
client money, Singapore’s Business Times reported today. Koh
said a “very small number of clients” were affected, without
specifying the amount of funds involved.  Kale, who was hired from UBS AG in 2010, declined to
comment immediately when contacted on his mobile phone and he
didn’t answer subsequent calls.  “We have notified the relevant authorities and are working
closely with them to expedite investigations,” Koh said in an
e-mail. The bank has hired an external forensic team for its own
investigations, and affected customers are being compensated,
she said. The case involves an “isolated banker” and London-
based Barclays has taken measures to prevent similar incidents
from occurring, she added.  Kale and two other UBS bankers joined Barclays three years
ago as part of efforts to build South Asian assets. The wealth
management unit has the largest team globally serving South
Asian millionaires, with more than 30 private bankers, Kale’s
former boss Vikram Malhotra said in an interview last month.  Assets under management at the division have doubled every
year since 2010, and it plans to increase them by 40 percent
annually over the next two years, said Malhotra, the global head
of the unit serving clients from the region, without disclosing
the current total. Indians living abroad make up the unit’s
largest customer group, he said.  The wealth division globally managed 186 billion pounds
($283 billion) in assets at the end of December, according to
its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sanat Vallikappen in  Singapore  at 
 vallikappen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  