-- OGX Short Sellers Dismiss Batista Threat as Wagers Surge
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2013-03-26T20:56:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/batista-short-sellers-dismiss-warning-as-bets-against-ogx-soar.html
Short sellers  responded to
billionaire  Eike Batista ’s threat that they’d be burned for
betting against his companies by ramping up wagers that OGX
Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA will sink.  Shares on loan of oil producer OGX climbed to 267 million
yesterday, the highest level since Bloomberg began compiling the
data in October 2010, from 258 million on March 22. The amount
has surged from 65 million shares a year ago, representing more
than 21 percent of those available for trading, the second
highest ratio among all stocks on the Bovespa index, the data
show.  Batista, whose personal wealth has fallen almost $26
billion in the past year as the market value of his companies
sank, said in March 23 posts on his Twitter account that
“rumors and gossip are the tools of short sellers,” who will
be “caught with their pants down.” OGX, his biggest holding,
 has tumbled  more than 80 percent in the past 12 months, closing
at a record low on March 22, as oil output missed estimates and
concern mounted that Batista is losing access to financing.  Taunting short sellers is a mistake because it creates
tension between the company and investors, said Joao Brugger,
who helps manage 300 million reais ($150 million) at Leme
Investimentos Ltda. including OGX shares. “It would be better
to release a filing to the market instead of using social
media,” he said by phone from Florianopolis,  Brazil .  In a short sale, traders sell borrowed stock, anticipating
the price will drop so they can profit by buying back the shares
at a lower price.  OGX  rose  0.4 percent to close at 2.30 reais in Sao Paulo
trading. The company is scheduled to release fourth-quarter
earnings today. Analysts estimate it posted an adjusted net loss
of 302.5 million reais, its 10th consecutive quarterly loss
excluding items, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  