-- Beijing Is No Longer a Cyclist’s Paradise
-- B y   N o a h   F e l d m a n
-- 2013-03-26T22:30:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/beijing-is-no-longer-a-cyclist-s-paradise.html
A decade ago, Beijing seemed like a
cyclist’s paradise. True, there were no dedicated bike lanes,
but that was because two-wheeled, man-powered vehicles owned the
road. In what seemed like a scene from an environmentalist’s
(slightly socialist) fantasy, scores of bikers would wait
patiently for the light to change, then embark en masse for
their destinations. By contrast, biking around my hometown of
 Boston  seemed faintly crazy -- an invitation to being sideswiped
by one of our famously considerate drivers.  Today all that has been turned on its head. When I went to
rent a bike upon my arrival in Beijing last week, people looked
at me as though I were mad. As I tooled around the old
neighborhoods near the Forbidden City, I was often the only
nonmotorized thing in sight. There were bike lanes, all right,
but they were populated only by motorbikers and the occasional
fellow intrepid Westerner. On the back streets, I saw a few
older Chinese cyclists, wearing expressions of thorough disgust.
Meanwhile, Boston, like lots of other U.S. cities, has become a
reasonable place to bicycle. I still wouldn’t recommend it to
the faint of heart, but as long as you bike defensively, you
feel like a member of a forward-looking tribe of change agents.  Transportation Revolution  The story of  China ’s transportation revolution is an
allegory of unexpected consequences and perverse incentives.
It’s also an invitation to think about what happens when markets
take hold in an environment unaccustomed to them.  Start with the good news: As China has gotten  rich , its
people (at least in the cities) have gained access to goods that
their grandparents never dreamed of. Cars are an amazing
invention, which is probably why they haven’t changed much in
the century since they began to be mass-produced. You can go
farther, faster, drier and warmer in them than in any form of
transport since the dawn of humanity. What’s more, you can go
wherever you want -- a terrific aid to free choice and
individualism.  Yet one effect of proliferating cars is that they worsen
street pollution. Exhaust is far from the only contributor to
Beijing’s now-legendary smog -- coal-burning steel plants and
other factories on the urban periphery do their part -- but on
the street, it’s the output of tailpipes burping their low-
quality gasoline that hits you in the face. After three hours on
the road, my throat was burning with acrid smog. I felt like I
had smoked a pack of cigarettes. And all this was on a day when
the rate of particles smaller than 2.5 milligrams was only
about 135 per million -- much lower than the 600 ppm that
Beijing has reached in extreme conditions.  The bad  air quality  drives people into cars, which makes
the air quality worse. And once you have a car, you can drive to
work from greater distances. Commuter traffic not only kills the
air but also clogs the roads. Traffic has gotten so bad that the
municipality has instituted a “drive every other day only”
rule.  People who can’t bike without choking, and are banned from
driving, throng to the subways. Riding two of the main lines, 1
and 10, at rush hour, I found them clean and efficient. And, oh
yes, more crowded than any train I have ever been on in any city
on Earth. Etiquette hasn’t yet solved the “how many people can
fit in this car?” problem. At one point, I saw several eager
customers take a running start and fling themselves into the
train like special-teams blockers heading down the football
field. Or actually, I felt it. The impact rebounded through the
train to the point where I momentarily wondered if someone might
be crushed. Getting out wasn’t any better because no one wants
to make way, knowing how hard it will be to remount. The Beijing
subway will have to be drastically expanded, but I can easily
imagine preferring to sit in traffic with glass and steel
between me and my fellow humans.  Individual Choice  That, of course, is the point: Driving is the optimal
individual choice, given the conditions created by everyone
else’s individual choices. The market prefers cars. More market,
more cars. And the effect of the free market in transport
choices is a disaster in the making. Everyone I saw in Beijing
had a smartphone (they work in the subway!). And every English
speaker I met had an application that provided two numbers: the
U.S. Embassy’s estimate of the air quality, and the Chinese
government’s counter-estimate. Information is wonderful: the
higher the number, the better advised you are to take a car and
stay out of the air.  Regulating the transportation market distorts individual
choices. Bike lanes in Boston’s narrow streets slow down cars
that are already crawling. They enrage the Boston driver because
they constrain his God-given freedom to cut the line of traffic
from the side like a modern Paul Revere evading British patrols
on his way to Lexington. They benefit the few on bikes, not the
many who drive the market.  But market regulation is necessary where collective action
leads to rational madness. China has made amazing progress by
bringing the market and its individual choice into daily life.
It needs more experiments in that direction, and more individual
freedom to go with it. But it also needs to notice where the
free market must be managed. Bring back Beijing’s air, and bring
back its bikes. A one-party state must be good for something.  ( Noah Feldman , a law professor at  Harvard University  and
the author of the forthcoming “Cool War: The Future of Global
Competition,” is a Bloomberg View columnist. Follow him on
 Twitter . The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Noah Feldman at  noah_feldman@harvard.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Francis Wilkinson at   fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net  