-- Berkshire to Pay Nothing to Be Among Top Goldman Sachs Holders
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2013-03-26T20:38:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/berkshire-to-get-goldman-stock-tied-to-warrants-from-2008-deal.html
Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. (BRK/A)  is poised to become one of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s
largest shareholders without paying anything after the companies
agreed on a plan to settle warrants granted at the height of the
2008 financial crisis.  Berkshire had the right to buy 43.5 million Goldman Sachs
common shares for $115 apiece until Oct. 1. Under a deal
announced by the companies today, Buffett’s firm will get
Goldman Sachs stock equal to the difference between the average
closing price during the 10 trading days before Oct. 1 and the
exercise price, multiplied by 43.5 million.  The new deal reduces some of the risk for Berkshire, which
would have had to spend about $5 billion to exercise the
warrants and then sell the shares -- about 9 percent of the
bank’s outstanding stock -- to cement a profit. For Goldman
Sachs, the fifth-biggest U.S. bank by assets, the plan seals
Berkshire’s participation as a shareholder in the company and
reduces the dilution for other investors.  “To buy the 43 million and sell them to reap the profit
would have substantial transactional cost,” said Richard Cook,
co-founder of Cook & Bynum Capital Management LLC in Birmingham,
 Alabama , which oversees Berkshire shares. “Goldman has avoided
the dilution.”  Restored Confidence  The new agreement also means Berkshire is depending on
Goldman Sachs stock remaining above $115 in the final 10 trading
days of September. The  shares  last fell below that level in
November. Goldman Sachs gained 43 cents, or 0.3 percent, to
$146.54 at 4 p.m. in  New York . The bank has advanced 15 percent
this year and rose 41 percent in 2012.  Goldman Sachs turned to Buffett, a cult figure in the
investing world, to shore up its capital and restore market
confidence after the firm’s stock tumbled and borrowing costs
spiked following the Sept. 15, 2008, collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. News of Berkshire’s investment also helped Goldman
Sachs raise $5.75 billion from a stock offering in two days.  Buffett, 82, invested $5 billion for preferred stock with a
10 percent dividend in 2008 and received the five-year warrants.
Goldman Sachs paid Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire a 10 percent
premium when it redeemed the preferred shares in 2011.  “We are pleased that Berkshire Hathaway intends to remain
a long-term investor in Goldman Sachs,” Lloyd C. Blankfein, 58,
the New York-based bank’s chairman and chief executive officer,
said in the statement.  ‘Better Place’  If the warrant agreement announced today were struck based
on the average stock price of the 10 trading days through
yesterday -- $150.16 -- Berkshire would receive $1.53 billion of
stock. That would be equal to about 10.4 million shares, based
on today’s closing price.  Buffett is “putting up less capital than he otherwise
would have,” Cook said in a phone interview. “Buffett must
feel like he has a better place to deploy the capital” than in
Goldman Sachs stock.  Buffett didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment
sent to an assistant.  Berkshire’s cash hoard was about  $47 billion  at the end of
December. Since then, he has committed about $12 billion toward
a deal with  Jorge Paulo Lemann ’s 3G Capital to take ketchup
maker  HJ Heinz Co. (HNZ)  private.  Goldman Sachs’s partners, the most senior employees at the
firm, owned about 57.8 million shares, or about 11.6 percent of
the stock, as of Feb. 1, according to a regulatory filing.  Stress Test  The warrant deal adds Goldman Sachs to Berkshire’s common-
stock investments in U.S. banks including more than $16 billion
of  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and $2.1 billion of  U.S. Bancorp. (STL)  Berkshire
also has a preferred stake and warrants in Bank of America
Corp., the second-largest U.S. lender.  An annual evaluation by the  Federal Reserve  completed
earlier this month found that Goldman Sachs’s Tier 1 common
equity could fall to 5.8 percent of its risk-weighted assets in
a severe economic downturn, just above the 5 percent minimum.  The Fed also ordered Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan Chase &
Co., the world’s two biggest trading firms, to resubmit their
plans for managing capital by the end of September to address
weaknesses in their planning processes.  The so-called stress tests may have played a part in
Buffett’s decision to take a smaller stake in Goldman Sachs than
he was entitled to, said  Jeff Matthews , a Berkshire shareholder
and author of books about the investor.  “Maybe owning that big a stake in Goldman was a position
he didn’t need to be in,” Matthews said. “It’s different than
owning Wells Fargo or U.S. Bancorp. It’s just a different
animal.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  