-- Bersani Meets Berlusconi Deputy in Talks Aimed at Coalition
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2013-03-26T09:14:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/bersani-meets-berlusconi-deputy-to-staunch-years-of-conflict.html
Pier Luigi Bersani will meet former
Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi ’s deputies today, seeking to
ease years of conflict in his bid to assume the Italian
premiership.  Bersani, 61, has two days to overcome a shortfall of
support in parliament and may need help from Berlusconi to get
there. The appointment, set for 4:15 p.m. in Rome, is between
Bersani and a delegation led by  Angelino Alfano , head of
Berlusconi’s People of Liberty party.  Bersani and Berlusconi have room for common ground since
both want to maintain influence after losing voters to the
upstart Five Star Movement of ex-comic Beppe Grillo. Still,
years of bad blood make a partnership hard to come by.
Berlusconi relishes mocking Bersani for his previous adherence
to communism, while the ex-premier has been criticized for his
criminal trials.  “Even if it starts, it will not last long,” Nicola Marinelli, who oversees $180 million at Glendevon King Asset
Management in  London , said of the chances for an alliance.
“They’ve been fighting for so long and the people behind them
really hate each other.”  Today’s talks provide an opportunity for the two sides to
resolve the stalemate and avoid an immediate return to the polls
after inconclusive elections last month. Bersani is turning to
People of Liberty, or PDL, and its ally the  Northern League 
after Grillo spurned his requests for support in the Senate.  Bond Yield  Italian 10-year bond yields fell 6 basis points to 4.56
percent at 9:29 a.m. in Rome, reducing the difference between
the yield on similar maturity German bunds 8 basis points to
3.20 percentage points.  The Feb. 24-25 election left Bersani with a majority in the
lower house of parliament while splitting the Senate into three
blocks. A deal could give Bersani, a former industry minister,
his first stint as head of government and allow Berlusconi a
greater voice over electoral reform and the selection of  Italy ’s
next president.  “We are asking the PDL and the League to leave the
election campaign behind and assume their responsibility,”
Bersani said late yesterday at a meeting of his  Democratic Party 
in Rome.  ‘Dual Track’  Italy is under pressure to install a government capable
of confronting the country’s recession and preventing fallout
from the financial  crisis in Cyprus . Bersani has proposed what
he calls a “dual track” that could allow him to form a cabinet
from among his party while requiring him to seek broader
consensus for issues like reforms and the vote for the next
president.  President Giorgio Napolitano, whose term ends in May,
invoked a so-called grand coalition March 22 when he gave
Bersani a mandate to seek parliamentary backing. JPMorgan Chase
& Co. strategist Fabio Bassi wrote in a report that day that he
was “more comfortable” that Bersani would reach a deal with
the PDL. Yesterday, Bersani was urged by labor leader Raffaele Bonanni and business lobbyist Carlo Sangalli to open to
Berlusconi.  Bersani is scheduled to return to Napolitano on March 28
with the results of his negotiations. If he is able to
demonstrate he can muster a majority the head of state may allow
him to form a cabinet. If not, Napolitano may give the task of
forming a government to another leader.  Resuming Rivalry  A pairing of Bersani and Berlusconi would revive the
partnership that brought Prime Minister  Mario Monti  to power in
November 2011. While the two leaders didn’t participate in the
government, they did provide united parliamentary support for
Monti’s program of fiscal austerity. Bersani and Berlusconi
resumed their rivalry in the run-up to the election.  Bersani has challenged Berlusconi over his trials and he
made respect for the justice system a central theme of his
campaign. Berlusconi, who has said his criminal cases amount to
political persecution, is free from prison pending appeal of an
October tax-fraud sentence and a conviction this month in a
wiretapping case.  “A government agreement between the PDL and us isn’t
presentable in any way, neither in our eyes nor in the eyes of
the country,” Bersani said at a press conference March 7. “It
would be like putting an unstable lid on a pressure cooker. So
we’re not taking it into consideration.”  Berlusconi is also standing trial on unrelated charges of
paying for sex with a minor and abusing the power of his office,
allegations he has denied.  Bersani is scheduled to meet with representatives of
Monti’s party, the fourth-biggest Senate force, after the Alfano
appointment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in  Rome  at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  