-- BOE’s Tucker Says U.K. Recovery Requires Repair of Wounded Banks
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2013-03-26T09:23:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/boe-s-tucker-says-u-k-recovery-requires-repair-of-wounded-banks.html
Bank of England Deputy Governor
 Paul Tucker  said British banks need to strengthen their
resilience in order for an economic recovery to take hold.  “Right now, the recovery of the economy requires sound
banks,” Tucker said in an interview on BBC News broadcast late
yesterday. “We’re not going to be able to recover as well as we
should if our banks remain wounded. They need to repair
themselves.”  Tucker’s comments come as the BOE prepares to publish
tomorrow the statement of the March 19 meeting of the  Financial
Policy Committee , when it discussed capital shortfalls at banks.
Governor  Mervyn King  said in November lenders may need to make
bigger provisions for future potential loan losses and the cost
of regulatory fines, giving regulators until this month to
report back on how much they may need.  In the November Financial Stability Report, the BOE also
said banks’ risk models may be inappropriate and understating
how much capital they need to hold.  The FPC is meeting on an interim basis until the bank
receives new powers to oversee the financial system on April 1.
 Andrew Bailey , the U.K.’s chief banking supervisor and BOE
deputy governor-designate for prudential regulation, told the
BBC the new arrangement would improve oversight.  “The bank had a checkered history in its previous life as
a supervisor of banks, it’s got to be completely different this
time,” he said. Officials must “tie together much more
effectively the bank’s responsibilities for monetary policy,
overall stability in the financial system and the safety and
soundness of the firms that we supervise.”  Consumer Protection  As the Banking Bill comes into force, the Financial
Services Authority will be wound down and the Prudential
Regulation Authority created within the BOE.  In addition, the FSA’s consumer-affairs division will be
shifted to a new Financial Conduct Authority. Britain’s
financial industry has been rocked by scandals such as
manipulation of the  London  interbank offered rate and mis-
selling of payment protection insurance and swaps.  “The key change is that the FCA has an absolutely clear
objective with a single mandate which is about protecting
consumers,” Martin Wheatley, chief executive officer-designate
of the FCA, told the  BBC . “Conduct is at the heart of the FCA,
and I think that’s what will make it different.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net . 