-- Boeing Dreamliner Lawsuit Dismissal Upheld on Appeal
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-03-26T22:12:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/boeing-class-action-case-dismissal-upheld-by-appeals-court.html
Boeing Co. (BA)  won an appeals court
ruling affirming the dismissal of an investor lawsuit accusing
company officials of making misleading public statements about
the readiness of its 787 “Dreamliner” aircraft.  The U.S. Court of Appeals in  Chicago  also asked a trial-
court judge to consider punishing lawyers for the City of
Livonia Public Employees’ Retirement System in  Michigan  for
failing to adequately investigate statements allegedly made by a
confidential source they relied on.  “The plaintiffs’ lawyers had made confident assurances in
their complaints about a confidential source -- their only
barrier to dismissal of their suit -- even though none of the
lawyers had spoken to the source and their investigator had
acknowledged that she couldn’t verify what (according to her) he
had told her,” U.S. Circuit Judge Richard A. Posner wrote in
the unanimous ruling by the three-judge appeals panel.  The confidential source later denied making the alleged
prior statements when questioned under oath by Boeing lawyers,
according to Posner.  Boeing’s 787 jet entered service in 2011 after three years
of delays caused by supply-chain interruptions, assembly
problems and a machinists strike. The U.S.  Federal Aviation
Administration  grounded the plane in January after overheated
lithium ion batteries on some planes began smoldering and
emitting smoke.  Executives Sued  The Livonia pension plan class action, or group lawsuit,
was filed in 2009 by San Diego-based law firm Robbins Geller
Rudman & Dowd LLP. Named as defendants with Chicago-based Boeing
were Chief Executive Officer W. James McNerney and Scott E. Carson, who led the company’s commercial airplane group.  After an initial complaint was dismissed, U.S. District
Judge Suzanne Conlon in Chicago allowed the plaintiffs to refile
and then denied a subsequent defense motion for dismissal,
according to the appeals court.  Boeing renewed that request after questioning the source of
the allegations, an engineer identified as Bishnujee Singh.
Conlon granted the company’s request.  “Noting that none of the plaintiffs’ lawyers had met or
talked to Singh until six months after they filed the second
amended complaint, even though the first amended complaint had
alleged reliance on internal Boeing communications, the judge
thought their failure to attempt to verify the allegations in
the investigator’s notes amounted to a fraud on the court,” the
appeals court said today.  Darren Robbins, a partner in the firm’s  San Diego  office,
and James Barz, a partner in its Chicago office, didn’t
immediately reply to phone and e-mail messages seeking comment
on the court’s decision.  Allegations ‘Baseless’  “Boeing is pleased that the Court of Appeals concluded, as
did the district court, that the securities fraud allegations
against Boeing were baseless and that it was the plaintiffs’ law
firm that engaged in fraud -- fraud on the court,” John Dern,
a company spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement.  “Boeing looks forward to the hearings in the district
court in which sanctions against the plaintiffs’ law firm will
be considered,” Dern said.  The case is City of Livonia Employees’ Retirement System v.
Boeing Co., 12-1899 and 12-2009,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the
7th Circuit (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at
   aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  