-- Brazil Soy Boom Bottlenecked as China Left Waiting: Commodities
-- B y   L u c i a   K a s s a i   a n d   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t
-- 2013-03-26T15:07:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/brazil-soy-boom-bottlenecked-as-china-left-waiting-commodities.html
Erai Scheffer, the world’s largest
soybean farmer, bought 200 trucks for this crop to counter the
worst transportation breakdown in  Brazil ’s history. In  China ,
undelivered cargoes mean buyers may turn to  Argentina  as Brazil
falters on its ability to become the top global supplier.  “In 30 years, I’ve never seen anything like this,”
Scheffer said by phone from Cuiaba, in Brazil’s Mato Grosso
state, an agriculture powerhouse three times the size of  Italy .
“I’m worried because the mid-season corn harvest is approaching
and will likely worsen the situation at ports even more.”  The line of  trucks  waiting to unload soybeans at Brazil’s
busiest port surged to a record 15 miles long this month, while
a total of 212 vessels awaited loading in a country that’s
forecast to surpass the U.S. as the biggest producer. For
Chinese crusher Shandong Chenxi Group Co. the boom isn’t coming
to fruition after eight of 10 shipments failed in the past two
months, General Manager Shao Guorui said. Chenxi may redirect
soybean orders to Argentina and plans to cancel about 2 million
metric tons of purchases from Brazil, or about 5 percent of the
country’s exports estimated for this season, he said.  “Logistical constraints suggest this supply will be
difficult to bring to market,” London-based Macquarie Group
Ltd. analyst Chris Gadd said in an e-mailed report March 20.
“While infrastructure fails to perform, these crops will remain
largely landlocked and irrelevant to the international
markets.”  Record Crop  Brazilian farmers are harvesting a crop that the  U.S.
Department of Agriculture  estimates at 83.5 million tons, with
exports forecast at 38.4 million. Those volumes mean U.S.
supplies will trail Brazil’s for the first time, with 82.1
million tons of American output and 36.6 million of exports
estimated by the USDA for the year ending Sept. 30. Not so if
Chenxi goes ahead with the shipment cancellation plan and
Brazilian exporters fail to sell the cargoes elsewhere.  President  Dilma Rousseff ’s goal to lure $235 billion into
toll roads, bridges, railways and harbors so far has done little
to counter the infrastructure shortfalls. Legislation limiting
truck drivers’ work hours, rising fuel costs and excess rainfall
that’s halting port activity are among hindrances that are
adding to pot-holed roads and insufficient railway and port
capacity.  Record land freight costs are causing trading companies
from  White Plains , New York-based  Bunge Ltd. (BG)  to Minneapolis-
based Cargill Inc. to spend an extra $650 million this season to
send the crops to ports, said Sergio Mendes, head of the oilseed
and grains exporters association, known as Anec. Farmers are
paying the bill as they get less from the traders, he said.  ‘Biggest Concern’  “The biggest concern is inland logistics trucking,” Bunge
Chief Executive Officer  Alberto Weisser , who estimates it will
take about six months to finish shipping Brazil’s soybean crop
to ports, said in a Feb. 20 presentation. “We have by far the
largest contract on railways, and so others will have to use
trucks where we use rail.”  Scheffer is using a tractor repair and storage facility as
an extra silo to keep stranded oilseeds while part of his ripe
crops remain in the fields amid a lack of storage capacity, he
said. His Grupo Bom Futuro is Brazil’s second-largest soybean
grower after Vanguarda Agro SA, while he ranks first among
individual soybean farmers.  Soybean crop yields that are 30 percent higher than in the
U.S. proved little advantage for Brazilian farmer Diorginis
Seron as the record trucking costs reduce the price trading
companies are willing to pay for his harvest.  Soaring Costs  Shipping (BDIY)  to a port from Seron’s 2,500 hectares (6,178
acres) of land in Mato Grosso state costs about three times more
than from Davenport,  Iowa , farmers group Famato and Ankeny,
Iowa-based  Soy Transportation Coalition  data show. A 56 percent
jump in costs in a year, to $152 a ton, means profit margins for
Mato Grosso growers like Seron are a third of those in the U.S.,
according to data from Famato and The American Soybean
Association.  “In 30 years we built up this farm from nothing and the
infrastructure around us remains the same,” said Seron, 37, as
he surveyed the spraying of pesticides over recently planted
corn and cotton, two months after harvesting his soybeans. “I’m
revolted, outraged.”  The difference between the cost of soybeans at Brazil’s
southern Paranagua port, the country’s second-biggest export hub
for the oilseed, and the price producers get in the city of
Sorriso, Mato Grosso, rose to a record 59 percent at the peak of
the harvest on Jan. 11, more than double the average in the past
decade, according to research agency Cepea data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Food Prices  Brazil’s delays in shipping crops so far haven’t affected
overall food prices. The Food & Agriculture Organization’s  index 
of world food prices fell for a fifth consecutive month in
February, down 12 percent from a February 2011 record.  The USDA estimates the world’s stock of soybeans will rise
to 60.2 million tons in the 2012-2013 season ending Sept. 30,
from 55.3 million a year earlier.  Soybean futures dropped 20 percent from a Sept. 4 record of
$17.89 a bushel to $14.365 on the Chicago Board of Trade
yesterday, partly on speculation that South American growers
will produce a record crop. Futures are expected to fall 7
percent further by year-end to $13.37, according to the median
of 12 analysts’ forecasts compiled by Bloomberg.  This year, soybean prices have advanced 2.3 percent, while
the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of eight agricultural
commodities has lost 0.4 percent. Corn prices have risen 4
percent and cattle dropped 8.2 percent.  Trade Contracts  While predicting Brazil’s bottlenecks may worsen as corn
farmers start harvesting their mid-season crops in June,
Macquarie’s Gadd expects the country will be able to export its
record soybean crop.  The backlog at ports doesn’t mean trading companies
including Bunge,  Archer-Daniels-Midland Co. (ADM)  and Louis Dreyfus
Holding BV won’t be able to meet contracts, Anec’s Mendes said
in a March 20 telephone interview from Sao Paulo.  “We have no doubt all delivery contracts will be met,” he
said.  There are no cancellations of Brazilian soybean cargoes and
there probably won’t be any in the “near” future, Liu
Guoqiang, general manager of CHS ( Shanghai ) Trading Co., said at
a forum in Kunming on March 21.  Decatur, Illinois-based ADM, the world’s largest grain
processor, prepared for the anticipated congestion by increasing
its storage capacity and improving the efficiency of its port
terminals, spokeswoman Jackie Anderson said in an e-mailed
response to questions. Officials at Bunge and Cargill in Sao
Paulo, who can’t be named because of company policy, declined to
comment when contacted by  Bloomberg News .  Santos Port  At the Port of Santos, Brazil’s biggest, soybean and
soybean-meal exports plunged 41 percent from a year earlier in
January to 238,250 tons even as growers reaped a record crop,
according to the latest data on the port’s  website . The line of
trucks waiting to unload the oilseed at the hub has surged to 15
miles long, the most ever, compared with no line a year earlier,
road operator Ecovias said on March 22.  The all-time-high 212 ships waiting to load 12.6 million
tons of soybeans at Brazilian ports have been held up for as
many as 54 days, Santos, Brazil-based  SA Commodities  said March
22. That compares with 119 vessels and 6.5 million tons a year
earlier, with a maximum wait of 26 days in the previous harvest.  “Outside of Brazil’s farms, we’re no longer an
agricultural power house,” said Nelson Piccoli, finance
director at the Mato Grosso Agriculture Federation, known as
Famato. “The state of our infrastructure is a disaster.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lucia Kassai in  Sao Paulo  at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net ;
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  