-- Brazil Cane Producers Eschew New Mills, Former Unica Chief Says
-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 2013-03-26T16:35:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/brazil-cane-producers-eschew-new-mills-former-unica-chief-says.html
Brazilian sugar-cane producers
probably won’t start construction on new sugar and ethanol mills
until the government revises its pricing policy for gasoline,
according to the former head of the sugar-cane association
Unica.  Ethanol producers have little control over the price
consumers will pay for the renewable fuel at the pump because it
competes with gasoline, the price of which is set by state-
controlled oil company  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) , said  Marcos Jank ,
who presided over the trade group Uniao da Industria de Cana-de-
Acucar from 2007 to 2012.  Some ethanol producers are selling the fuel at a loss, he
said in an interview today. Cane processors may invest as much
as $8.5 billion expanding existing plants through 2020 and won’t
undertake any new projects.  “Who’s going to invest 1 billion reais ($499 million) in a
new mill when you don’t know what the price of gasoline will be
in five years?” Jank said.  A revised gasoline-pricing policy that’s more transparent
and includes tax incentives would spur as much as $30.5 billion
in investments in 65 new plants and expansions of existing ones
through 2020, he said.  Brazil  is the world’s biggest ethanol
producer after the U.S. and the largest sugar maker.  About 30 percent of the fuel consumed by Brazil’s light-
vehicle fleet this year will be ethanol, down from 55 percent in
2008, he said. That may drop to 15 percent in 2020 without any
major policy changes.  The Ministry of Mines and Energy didn’t immediately reply
to a telephone call and e-mail from Bloomberg News seeking
comment. Spokesmen for Raizen Energia SA and  Sao Martinho SA (SMTO3) ,
the biggest ethanol producers, didn’t immediately reply to
messages today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in Sao Paulo at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  