-- Brooke Astor’s Son Has Fraud Conviction Upheld on Appeal
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-03-26T17:59:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/brooke-astor-s-son-has-fraud-conviction-upheld-by-new-york-court.html
The son of late New York
philanthropist and socialite Brooke Astor faces as long as three
years in prison for defrauding his mother after a state appeals
court upheld his conviction.  Anthony Marshall, 88, was convicted in October 2009 of
grand larceny and other charges for changing his mother’s will
while she was incompetent. He was sentenced to one to three
years in prison for acts that included giving himself a
$1 million raise for managing his mother’s money.  Marshall in February 2010 filed motions to vacate his
conviction, claiming juror misconduct. New York State Supreme
Court Justice A. Kirke Bartley Jr. upheld the conviction of
Marshall and his co-defendant, lawyer Francis X. Morrissey, in
July 2010 and Marshall appealed.  The Appellate Division’s First Department affirmed the
conviction in a decision released today, saying the verdicts
were “based on legally sufficient evidence and are not against
the weight of the evidence.”  “The record amply supports the jury’s determination that
defendants are guilty of a scheme to defraud Mrs. Astor by
fraudulently changing her will via the codicils at a time when
they knew her physical and mental condition precluded her from
having the capacity to agree to any such changes,” the appeals
panel said in a unanimous decision.  Larceny Count  Astor, who suffered from Alzheimer’s disease, died in 2007
at the age of 105. She was the last of the American branch of
the Astors, a family whose financial and social prestige was
once synonymous with the wealth and power of the Rockefellers
and the Morgans.  “This trial underscored the importance of prosecuting
elder abuse, particularly financial fraud perpetrated by those
close to the victim,” Erin M. Duggan, a spokeswoman for
 Manhattan  District Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr., said in a
statement.  Marshall, who had been free pending the appeal, was ordered
to return to New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan for
further proceedings.  “We are of course deeply disappointed in the decision, and
we are exploring all of Mr. Marshall’s options,” his attorney,
John R. Cuti with Cuti Hecker Wang LLP in New York, said in an
e-mail.  Mandatory Term  Marshall had asked the court to throw out his first-degree
grand larceny conviction, which carries a mandatory prison term,
arguing that the durable power of attorney executed by his
mother allowed him to “make unlimited gifts to himself, without
regard to whether they were in the principal’s best interest,”
according to the appeals court decision.  The appellate panel declined, saying that the charge didn’t
allege that Marshall abused his power to make gifts to himself
but that he improperly authorized a “significant” raise in his
compensation that was disproportionate to the salary his mother
had authorized.  Marshall had also asked the appeals court to throw out the
first-degree grand larceny count because of his age, health,
military service, public service, lack of prior criminal history
and the non-violent nature of his criminal conduct.  The appellate panel said the state legislature has provided
a way for terminally ill people to be released from prison on
medical parole. It also disagreed with Marshall’s argument that
the “substantial restitution” paid to resolve a dispute over
Astor’s will is a “compelling factor.”  ‘Aged Felon’  “We are not convinced that as an aged felon Marshall
should be categorically immune from incarceration and it is
generally inappropriate to use the interest of justice as a
device for granting dispensations from mandatory sentencing
statutes,” the appeals court said. “Further, Marshall’s age,
along with the medical conditions presented, do not establish,
based on the record before us, that incarceration will likely
cause his death.”  The appeals court did throw out one of five counts of
second-degree grand larceny against Marshall, saying that having
a secretary employed by Astor do tasks for a theater production
company he was operating out of her apartment didn’t constitute
that crime.  Marshall’s inheritance was cut by more than half, to $14.5
million from $31 million, in a settlement over his mother’s
estate reached in March 2012 that provides $100 million to
charities including Manhattan’s Central Park, the New York
Public Library and the Metropolitan Museum of Art.  Charity Funds  Marshall was accused of taking advantage of his mother
partly by trying to obtain millions of dollars she intended for
charities. He was motivated by fear that his wife, Charlene,
wouldn’t be left with enough money when he died, prosecutors
said. Astor, who didn’t like her son’s wife, left her only coats
and jewelry, they said.  One of the jurors in the case, at the time an employee of
Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, allegedly told the
judge she had been pressured into convicting Marshall and
Morrissey due to intimidation by another juror, according to
Bartley’s decision.  Bartley wrote in his 22-page ruling that the lack of sworn
statements from her and the other jurors as well as her conduct
after the verdict “all lead to the inevitable conclusion that
her verdict was not a product of force or coercion and that the
defendants received a trial by a fair and impartial jury.”  ‘Actual Threats’  The appeals panel said the note didn’t indicate there were
“actual threats of physical violence” and therefore didn’t
show the juror was “grossly unqualified or engaged in
substantial misconduct.”  “Although the more prudent course of action would involve
an inquiry of the jurors, the court acted well within its
discretion by denying defendants’ application for individual
inquiries of the jurors and ‘in determining that supplemental
instructions, as well as a break from deliberations, would be
sufficient,’” the appeals court said.  The case is People v. Marshall, 06044-2007, New York
Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court at 
8969 or  cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  