-- Bunds Show True Cypriot Backlash as Italy Insulated
-- B y   D a v i d   G o o d m a n   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2013-03-26T13:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/bunds-show-true-cypriot-backlash-as-italy-insulated-euro-credit.html
With the yields of the euro area’s
most-indebted nations getting support from the  European Central
Bank , the region’s safest bonds are proving the best indicator
of risk amid turmoil in Cyprus.  While Spanish and Italian bonds weathered events from
Cyprus over the past 11 days, yields on German securities, along
with those of French, Austrian and Belgian debt, fell as
investors sought haven assets. The rate on two-year German notes
fell  below zero  on March 18 for the first time since Jan. 2,
while  Austria ’s 10-year yield dropped to a  record  on March 22.  “Overall, the market seems to be very confident in the
ECB,” said  Michael Leister , an interest-rates strategist at
Commerzbank AG in  London . “The safety bid will remain in place
given that the market is now aware that policy risks have
increased yet again, which will keep bunds underpinned.”  German  government bonds  advanced yesterday after Cypriot
President Nicos Anastasiades agreed to shut the country’s
second-largest bank, bowing to demands from creditors to shrink
the banking system in exchange for 10 billion euros ($13
billion) of aid. German 10-year yields declined to 1.33 percent,
the lowest since Jan. 2, while rates of Italian and Spanish
securities rose. The bund yield was 1.35 percent today.  Italian 10-year yields were at 4.57 percent at 1 p.m.
London time, down from as much as 4.68 percent on March 15, the
day before European Union finance ministers attempted to impose
an unprecedented levy on  bank deposits  as a condition of
emergency funds to Cyprus.  Dodging Default  Cyprus dodged a disorderly default and an unprecedented
exit from the euro when the country’s lawmakers struck a deal
early yesterday with international creditors for the second time
in nine days, underscoring the difficulties of  crisis management 
in the region.  The accord for the island nation paved the way for rescue
loans from the so-called troika of the ECB, the European
Commission and the  International Monetary Fund .  ECB President  Mario Draghi  pledged in September to purchase
bonds of struggling euro-area nations that request aid in order
to cap borrowing costs in the region’s high debt and deficit
economies through the Frankfurt-based central bank’s Outright
Monetary Transactions program.  Yields Tumble  Spanish 10-year yields have tumbled 282 basis points from a
euro-era record 7.75 percent reached the day before Draghi said
July 26 that he would do “whatever it takes” to support the
euro. The rate on equivalent-maturity German bunds rose 12 basis
points in the same period.  “It remains to be seen how the Cyprus situation plays out,
but the near-term dangers aren’t significant enough to outweigh
the spread tightening on the back of the ECB,” said  John Wraith , a fixed-income strategist at Bank of America Merrill
Lynch in London. “As always,  Germany  is the main beneficiary of
safe-haven flows. The ECB’s commitment made last summer is still
putting a backstop under periphery bonds.”  The promise of an OMT backstop has helped push Italian
yields lower than before the nation’s inconclusive elections on
Feb. 24-25. The 10-year rate slid to a one-month low of 4.43
percent yesterday even as lawmakers in  Europe ’s biggest debt
market struggle to form a government and the nation’s 18-month
recession drags on. The yield was as high as 6.71 percent on
July 25.  ‘Political Risk’  “The market reaction has been very muted,” said Michael Riddell, a London-based  fund manager  at M&G Group Plc, who helps
oversee about $370 billion. “The market continues to underplay
not just Italian political risk but euro zone political risk
generally, and I’m still not touching peripheral euro zone
sovereigns at these levels.”  German bunds have handed investors a 0.7 percent return
this month through yesterday, according to indexes compiled by
Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial Analysts
Societies. Italian bonds earned 0.9 percent and Spanish
securities gained 0.6 percent.  Banks in Cyprus, which have been shut for the past week,
will remain closed through tomorrow, the central bank said.
Cypriot lawmakers voted last week to impose  capital controls  to
prevent a run on deposits when they reopen.  Bailout Template  Dutch Finance Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem, who heads the
group of euro-area finance chiefs, said yesterday that the
Cypriot rescue plan may become a template for euro-area bank
bailouts, fueling concern about the security of deposits across
the region.  “Banks should basically be able to save themselves, or at
least restructure or recapitalize themselves as far as
possible,” Dijsselbloem said in an interview with Reuters and
the Financial Times. “It will force all financial institutions,
as well as investors, to think about the risks they are taking
on because they will now have to realize that it may also hurt
them.”  Nobel laureate  Christopher Pissarides , the head of Cyprus’s
economic policy council, told Bloomberg Television that
yesterday’s agreement was “disastrous” and risks undermining
confidence in euro-area banks.  “It is a bit of a conundrum as it is difficult to imagine
that there won’t be any broader contagion effects under the
various scenarios,” said Elwin de Groot, a market economist at
 Rabobank Nederland  in Utrecht, the Netherlands. “It seems
market participants have kept their composure, but that would be
largely on the credibility of the ECB’s promise to do whatever
it takes.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net ;
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  