-- Canada Should End Most Uranium Ownership Curbs, Wall Says
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2013-03-26T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/canada-should-end-most-uranium-ownership-curbs-wall-says.html
Canada should eliminate foreign-
ownership limits for uranium companies such as  Cameco Corp. (CCO) 
except in cases where a state-owned company is the bidder,
Saskatchewan Premier Brad Wall said.  “Let’s open it up for other companies around the world
that want to expand here and create jobs,” Wall said in an
interview yesterday at his office in the provincial capital of
Regina.  The change would apply rules for the uranium industry
similar to those laid out last year by Prime Minister Stephen Harper, when he said he would block most further foreign
purchases of majority stakes in Canadian oil-sands producers by
state-owned enterprises. That policy was announced after Harper
approved  Cnooc Ltd. (883) ’s $15.1 billion takeover of  Nexen Inc. (NXY)  and
Petroliam Nasional Bhd.’s C$5.2 billion ($5.1 billion) takeover
of Progress Energy Resources Corp. Current rules  limit  most
foreign ownership of uranium projects to minority stakes.  “Why not apply that Cnooc ruling on oil sands to
uranium?” Wall said, adding that Harper has already worked to
open up markets in China and India for the element used in
nuclear power stations.  Cameco, the world’s third-biggest uranium producer, is
based in Saskatoon, about 260 kilometers (160 miles) north of
Regina. Wall cited London-based  Rio Tinto Group (RIO)  as a company
that could benefit from relaxed foreign ownership rules, and
said a budget his government presented last week had a plan to
reduce royalties paid by the industry.  ‘Net Benefit’  Canada’s foreign-ownership rules should keep the “net
benefit test,” Wall said, despite criticism from opposition
lawmakers that it’s too vague. The law allows policy makers to
reject foreign purchases of Canadian firms if they don’t provide
a net benefit to the country. Wall relied on that language to
lead opposition to  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ’s $40 billion hostile
takeover bid for  Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc ., which was
blocked in 2010.  “There is something enabling about being able to define
what net benefit was for us, and we did,” Wall said.  Melbourne-based BHP Billiton remains “one of our best
corporate citizens” after the Potash rejection, Wall said. The
company moved its Canadian office to Saskatoon from Vancouver
and is advancing work on its Jansen Lake potash mine in the
province, Wall said.  “The Jansen Lake project is proceeding in earnest, they
have been very open and honest to deal with,” he said.  France’s  Areva FP (AREVA)  has also made a good contribution to the
province and for that reason should have its uranium investments
exempted from any future restrictions on state-owned companies,
Wall said.  “We would like to see Areva grandfathered in that, because
they have been here a long time,” Wall said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa  at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  