-- Canada Says Six Largest Banks ‘Systemically Important’
-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 2013-03-26T20:16:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/canada-says-six-largest-banks-are-all-systemically-important-.html
Canada ’s six biggest banks are
systemically important and need to set aside more capital to
safeguard against failure, the country’s banking regulator said.  The lenders include  Royal Bank of Canada ,  Bank of Montreal (BMO) ,
 Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) , Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, Bank
of  Nova Scotia  and  National Bank of Canada , the Office of the
Superintendent of Financial Institutions said today in a
 statement.  The six banks will be subject to a surcharge equal to
1 percent of risk-weighted capital by Jan. 1, 2016, the
regulator said.  “The measures we are announcing today are designed to
limit the likelihood that a major bank would encounter distress
or failure that could negatively impact the Canadian economy or
taxpayers,” said Julie Dickson, Superintendent of Financial
Institutions.  The surcharge adds to a requirement of the  Basel Committee
on Banking Supervision  that lenders set aside at least 7 percent
core Tier 1 capital of risk-weighted assets. The increase was
largely expected by bankers including Royal Bank Chief Executive
Officer  Gordon Nixon .  “There are no surprises here,” said Sumit Malhotra, a
financial-services analyst at Macquarie Capital Markets in
Toronto. “Our view has been that Basel has asked for 7 percent,
OSFI would ask for 8 percent, and that the banks would want
about 50 basis points” on top of that. A basis point is one
hundredth of a percentage point.  Additional Buffers  At the end of January, five of the six banks had Tier 1
common equity ratios ranging from 8.2 percent to 9.6 percent.
National Bank, the smallest of the six by assets, had a 7.9
percent ratio.  The banks will be encouraged to have an additional capital
buffer, Dickson, 55. said in a telephone interview.  “Institutions can find themselves with restrictions placed
on dividends, and share buybacks, and that sort of thing, if
they dip below 8 percent,” she said. “So that is an incentive
to maintain your capital well above 8 percent.”  The S&P/TSX Commercial Banks Index was little-changed at
2183.51 at 4 p.m. in Toronto.  The country’s lenders may face additional changes beyond
those announced today, Dickson said.  “Bank regulation, whether it be capital or other measures,
is always evergreen and is always changing, depending on how the
market develops,” she said.  ‘Bail-In’  Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said in last week’s  federal
budget  that banks identified as “systemically important” by
OSFI will have to set aside more capital.  Banks on the list will also be subject to “bail-in”
provisions that will require them to hold debt that can be
converted into capital if that lender fails, reducing the need
for a taxpayer-funded bailout, according to the budget.  The system “will limit the unfair advantage that could be
gained by Canada’s systemically important banks through the
mistaken belief by investors and other market participants that
these institutions are too big to fail,” the government said in
its budget documents.  Canadian banks weren’t on a list of the world’s most
systemically important banks released in July. The nation’s
lenders have been ranked the world’s soundest for the past five
years by the  World Economic Forum .  Separately, the  Bank of Canada  said today it will regulate
SwapClear, a system for clearing over-the-counter  interest-rate
swaps . SwapClear has “the potential to pose systemic risk to
the Canadian financial system” because of its dominance in
interest rate swaps, the central bank said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  