-- Canadian Dollar Gains With Oil as Crude Spread at Five-Month Low
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-03-26T21:15:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/canadian-dollar-higher-amid-mixed-reaction-to-cyprus-bailout.html
The Canadian dollar rose for a
fifth day against its U.S. counterpart as oil, the country’s
largest export, touched its highest point in a month, prompting
investors to reverse near-record bets the currency will fall.  Canada’s dollar rose against the majority of its 16 most-
traded peers as the discount Canadian oil producers face to the
U.S. benchmark narrowed to the least in almost five months. The
currency has gained since a report showed last week that bets by
futures traders that the Canadian currency would fall versus the
U.S. dollar outnumbered bets it would rise by the most in seven
years. Inflation increased in February to 0.7 percent from 0.1
the prior month, according to a Bloomberg survey before
tommorow’s report.  “It’s short covering, Canadian dollar short covering,”
 Greg Anderson , head of Group of 10 currency strategy at
Citigroup Inc., said by phone from  New York . “Everybody who’s
short the Canadian dollar knows that everybody else is short the
Canadian dollar, and it’s an uncomfortable spot to be in. So
they try to slip out the back door, and I think that’s part of
what’s behind Canadian dollar strength.” A short position is a
bet an asset will decline in value.  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is known for the image
of aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, rose 0.5 percent to C$1.0161
per U.S. dollar at 5:00 p.m. in Toronto. One Canadian dollar
buys 98.42 U.S. cents. The loonie rose seven straight trading
days in the period ending Dec. 12.  Bonds, Oil  Canada ’s benchmark 10-year  government bonds  were little
changed with yields at 1.81 percent. The 2.75 percent security
maturing in June 2022 cost C$107.87. The  Bank of Canada  will
auction C$3.3 billion of 10-year notes tomorrow.  Futures of crude oil rose 1.4 percent to $96.16 per barrel
in New York after reaching $96.45, the highest point since Feb.
20. The  discount  between the Canadian and American benchmark
crude oil blends touched C$16.25 for a second day, the narrowest
since Oct. 17, after reaching a record of C$42.50 on Dec. 14.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 commodity prices
gained 0.9 percent and the  S&P 500 (SPX)  Index of U.S. stocks climbed
0.8 percent.  A Citigroup model that combines equity and commodity prices
with interest-rate differentials to model the loonie versus the
 U.S. dollar  shows the Canadian currency is 2 percent undervalued
and should rise toward parity, according to a research note
released today.  ‘Short Again’  “The data we’ve seen in Canada so far has been bad data,
but we haven’t really begun to see February data yet,” said
Citigroup’s Anderson. “People will start to form their
projections of numbers, and the numbers will come out and people
will say hey, hold on, wait a minute, why do we have this big
CAD short again?”  Canada’s  economy  grew 0.1 percent in January after
shrinking 0.2 percent the month before, according to the median
estimate of a Bloomberg survey of 24 economists before the
government reports the data March 28.  The difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and
other large speculators on a decline in the Canadian dollar
compared with those on a gain -- so-called  net shorts  -- was
65,331 on March 19, compared with net shorts of 53,397 a week
earlier, data from the Washington-Based Commodity Futures
Trading Commission showed. That was the most since March 2007.  Commodity Currencies  The Canadian dollar gained earlier along with the
currencies of fellow commodity exporters  Australia  and  New
Zealand  as European officials disagreed on whether the financial
rescues of Cyprus would act as a template for future bank
bailouts.  “The Aussie, Kiwi and Canada have outperformed this week,
and it may be there’s a bit of a refuge bid there for those
currencies during this sort of uncertainty in  Europe ,” said
 Shaun Osborne , chief currency strategist at  Toronto-Dominion
Bank (TD)  by phone from Toronto.  The Canadian dollar has gained 0.6 percent in the past week
against nine other developed-nation currencies tracked by the
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Index. The Australian dollar has
gained 0.7 percent and the New Zealand currency has gained the
most at 1.8 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  