-- Carney Rates Wish Seen Boosting Short-Maturity Debt: U.K. Credit
-- B y   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-03-26T08:53:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/carney-rates-wish-seen-boosting-short-maturity-debt-u-k-credit.html
Bond strategists cut estimates for
U.K. two-year note yields at the end of this year to a record,
emboldened by the potential for governor-designate  Mark Carney 
to use new powers to pin down borrowing costs.  Economists say the yield difference between two- and 10-
year securities will widen for the first time in four years as
investors shun debt with longer maturities, concerned that
additional policy measures to boost growth will spur price
increases that erode the fixed payments on bonds. A gauge of
 inflation expectations  reached a four-year high on March 14.  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  added weight to
those estimates last week when he said he may permit the central
bank to offer forward guidance on  interest rates . It’s a measure
that analysts predict will anchor short-term borrowing costs
near a record low and one the next central bank chief has
signaled he supports.  “The market is pricing in rates being on hold for a
sustained period and if we get rate guidance that will reinforce
that message,” said Jamie Searle, a fixed-income strategist at
Citigroup Inc. in  London . Shorter-maturity “yields are
extremely low and rate guidance will very much pin them at these
levels. If fiscal risk builds you’d expect to see some
steepening, with 10-year gilts leading the way.”  ‘Maxed Out’  Carney, who replaces  Mervyn King  in July, has indicated he
is open to further stimulus, saying in January that central
banks aren’t “maxed out” and should achieve “escape
velocity” for their economies.  While the Bank of  England  benchmark rate has been at a
record-low 0.5 percent since March 2009, the economy remains
stagnant. The  Office for Budget Responsibility , Osborne’s fiscal
watchdog, last week predicted growth of 0.6 percent for this
year -- half the pace forecast three months ago.  U.K.  two-year note  yields will rise to 0.54 percent by
year-end, according to analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg,
with the most recent projections given the heaviest weightings.
That’s the lowest prediction for that period on record and down
from a 0.63 percent estimate at the end of February.  Ten-year rates will be at 2.41 percent, according to
separate weighted estimates, leaving the expectation for the
yield  spread  between the two securities at about 187 basis
points, the widest prediction since July.  Yield Spread  Yields on two-year notes were 0.21 percent at 8:42 a.m.
London time, while those on 10-year  gilts  were at 1.82 percent.
The yield spread was at 161 basis points after touching 193
basis points on Feb. 20, the widest since March 21, 2012. It has
increased from 150 basis points since Dec. 31, having narrowed
every year since 2010.  While Carney has been an advocate of the Federal Reserve
policy of offering guidance on interest-rate expectations, U.K.
officials have resisted such a move, arguing it would be hard to
commit the Monetary Policy Committee to a path when its nine
members are regularly replaced.  “Within a longer-term horizon we would expect to see some
curve-steepening for the simple reason that we expect some form
of a selloff in bond markets,” said  Peter Dixon , an economist
at Commerzbank AG in London. “With inflation where it is,
investors aren’t going to accept yields where they are. That’s
the central view but there are significant risks to that.”  Commerzbank cut its year-end forecast for U.K. two-year
yields to 0.50 percent this month, from 0.60 percent previously,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  MPC Vote  The MPC voted 6-3 to keep the target for economy-boosting
asset purchases at 375 billion pounds ($569.7 billion), the
central bank said in minutes of its March 7 meeting, published
in London last week. King,  David Miles  and  Paul Fisher  wanted a
25 billion-pound increase, repeating their push from February.  Since the  Bank of England  paused its bond-buying program --
known as quantitative easing -- in November, U.K. securities due
between one and three years have returned 0.3 percent, compared
with a 0.2 percent loss among bonds maturing in more than 10
years, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.  “With no one expecting any change in rates from the Bank
of England, the front end is locked,” said Jason Simpson, a
fixed-income strategist at Banco Santander SA in London,
referring to shorter-maturity debt. “We are not looking for
more quantitative easing, while other risk factors are higher
inflation, partly on less certainty about the central bank’s
framework, ratings risk and high levels of issuance.”  Rating Cut  Fitch Ratings  said on March 22 there was “heightened
probability of a downgrade” from AAA “in the near term.”
Moody’s Investors Service lowered the nation’s ranking to Aa1
from Aaa on Feb. 22.  In his March 20 budget, Osborne set out an “updated” Bank
of England remit, which reaffirmed its 2 percent inflation goal.
In a separate letter, he stated the central bank was correct to
interpret this flexibly.  The U.K.’s 10-year  break-even rate , a measure of inflation
expectations, rose to 3.37 percentage points on March 14, the
most since September 2008. Bank of England policy makers said in
the minutes published March 20 that consumer price rises are
“more likely” to remain above the 2 percent goal for much of
the next three years. Inflation, which accelerated to 2.8
percent in February, has stayed above the central bank’s target
for each of the past 39 months.  “Osborne wants to give Carney the opportunity to shape
change,” Dagmar Dvorak, a director of fixed income and
currencies in London at Baring Asset Management, which oversees
$50 billion, said in a March 22 phone interview. “The Bank of
England is able to be a lot more complacent about inflation than
it used to be, which should lead to higher gilt yields. Guidance
could help anchor rates at the short end of the curve.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  