-- CBS Gains Basic Cable Role Buying 50% of TV Guide Network
-- B y   R o b   G o l u m
-- 2013-03-27T20:30:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/cbs-buys-50-of-tvguide-network-forms-lions-gate-partnership.html
CBS Corp. acquired half of the TV
Guide Network and a related website, and announced plans to
operate both with co-owner  Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. (LGF)   CBS, owner of the most-watched TV network, acquired the
stake in the basic cable network TVGN and TVGuide.com from a
unit of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , according to a statement
yesterday. Financial terms weren’t announced. A person familiar
with the matter said last week CBS paid more than $100 million.  The acquisition gives New York-based CBS an outlet on basic
cable for new shows and older ones, along with movies and
programs from Lions Gate. The owners plan to announce a new
programming and branding strategy later, according to the
statement. The channel is available in more than 80 million
homes, the companies said.  “This is a strategic way for CBS to use its content brands
and gain access to a highly distributed basic cable network that
has a lot of upside,” Chief Executive Officer Leslie Moonves
said in the statement.  CBS rose 1 percent to $46.16 at the close in New York. The
stock has advanced 21 percent this year. Lions Gate, the
independent film and TV company run from Santa Monica,
 California , gained 0.5 percent to $23.92 and is up 46 percent in
2013.  The partners plan to combine CBS programming, production
and marketing assets with Lions Gate resources in films, TV and
digitally delivered content. Two recent Lions Gate movies, “The
Hunger Games” and “The Twilight Saga,” were among the top
grossing U.S. films last year, according to  Box Office Mojo . The
company also produces cable TV’s “Mad Men” series.  More Homes  The tie-in with CBS, which is already carried by the
biggest pay-TV services, would give TVGN leverage to raise fees
and expand into more of the 100.4 million U.S. homes with
television subscriptions.  TVGN, historically a listing to programs on other channels,
has added regularly scheduled shows in recent years. The network
will receive about 3 cents a subscriber per month this year,
compared with 2 cents in 2012, according to estimates from
researcher SNL Kagan.  JPMorgan and investor Allen Shapiro acquired the TV Guide
Network stake for $123 million in May 2009. Lions Gate had
purchased the channel and website three months earlier for about
$250 million.  Lions Gate already produces shows for CBS. The company’s TV
unit makes “Weeds” and “Nurse Jackie” for Showtime,  CBS
Corp. (CBS) ’s premium priced cable network.  Moelis & Co. and Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz advised the
TVGN on the transaction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Golum in Los Angeles at 
 rgolum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  