-- Ceglia’s Facebook Claim Should Be Thrown Out, Judge Says
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-03-27T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/ceglia-s-facebook-claim-should-be-thrown-out-judge-says.html
A judge said  Paul Ceglia ’s claim
that he owns a multibillion-dollar share of  Facebook Inc. (FB)  should
be thrown out of court because the contract on which he bases
his lawsuit is fraudulent.  U.S. Magistrate Judge Leslie G. Foschio in Buffalo, New
York, yesterday issued a 151-page report finding “clear and
convincing evidence” that Ceglia, 39, forged the contract,
destroyed evidence and created phony e-mails between himself and
 Mark Zuckerberg , Facebook’s chief executive officer and one of
its founders.  Foschio rejected Ceglia’s arguments that a jury should
consider the case and characterized Ceglia’s claim that
Zuckerberg hacked into his computer to plant evidence as
“beyond absurd.”  Ceglia claims a contract he and Zuckerberg signed in 2003
gave them equal shares in Facebook, which now operates the
world’s biggest online social network. Facebook claims
Zuckerberg, who was a student at  Harvard University  at the time,
was hired to do some computer coding for Ceglia’s Internet
business, StreetFax. The two signed a contract that made no
mention of Facebook, according to the company.  Ceglia has 14 days to file objections to Foschio’s
conclusions. U.S. District Judge Richard Arcara, who has
routinely approved rulings by Foschio in the case, will then
decide whether to follow his recommendation to dismiss the suit.  Mail Fraud  Ceglia was arrested in October and charged criminally in
New York with one count each of mail fraud and  wire fraud  for
allegedly fabricating evidence in the case. Each of the charges
carries a maximum of 20 years in prison. Ceglia, who pleaded not
guilty to the criminal charges, is free on bail and subject to
electronic monitoring at his home in Wellsville,  New York .  Ceglia’s lawyers in the contract case, Paul Argentieri and
Dean Boland, didn’t respond to voice-mail messages seeking
comment.  “Today’s federal court decision confirms what we have said
from day one: this lawsuit is an inexcusable fraud based on
forged documents,” Colin Stretch, Facebook’s deputy general
counsel, said in a statement yesterday. “We are pleased the
court agrees.”  The contract case is Ceglia v. Zuckerberg, 10-cv-00569,
U.S. District Court, Western District of New York (Buffalo). The
criminal case is U.S. v. Ceglia, 12-cr-00876, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  