-- Central African Rebels Plan to Renew Government, Hold Vote
-- B y   P a u l i n e   B a x
-- 2013-03-26T15:32:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/central-african-rebels-plan-to-renew-government-hold-vote-1-.html
Central African Republic’s rebel
Seleka movement, which seized power two days ago, said it will
reorganize the government by tomorrow and later hold elections.  The group is also working to restore calm in the capital,
Bangui, after looting broke out following their capture of the
city, said Christophe Gazambeti, a member of Seleka who was
appointed as communications minister in a unity government. A 7
p.m. to 6 a.m. curfew is in force in Bangui, while French forces
control the city’s airport and Air  France  flights are operating,
the French Embassy in the country said on its website.  “We have to get the looters off the streets and our
soldiers back to the barracks,” Gazambeti said in a phone
interview today from Bangui. Regional troops under the command
of the Central African Multinational Force are helping restore
stability “and French forces have arrived, so that will help
too,” he said.  President Francois Bozize fled the country to neighboring
Cameroon on March 24 after the rebels seized Bangui. Seleka last
week ended a cease-fire, agreed in January, when Bozize failed
to meet rebel demands to double the number of Cabinet posts they
hold in a two-month-old unity government.  “The government is going to be reshuffled, probably within
the next 24 hours or so,” Gazambeti said. “Of course there
will be elections. There will be municipal, legislative and
presidential elections,” he said, without saying when.  AU Sanctions  Gazambeti was among seven Seleka officials the African
Union said will be subject to asset freezes and travel bans
after the unconstitutional change of government. The continental
body also suspended Central African Republic’s membership.  “The rebels have overturned a duly elected government and
there is no logic behind the explanation” that the government
reneged on the agreement, Erastus Mwencha, deputy chairman of
the African Union, said in an interview today in Luanda, the
Angolan capital. “We must return to constitutionality.”  Gazambeti declined to comment on the sanctions imposed by
the African Union.  The Central African Republic has been plagued by violence
since independence from France in 1960. At least four battles
for Bangui took place from 1996 until 2003, when Bozize toppled
predecessor Ange-Felix Patasse, whom he served as army chief.
Seleka began its rebellion in December after accusing Bozize of
failing to honor a 2008 peace accord. An agreement signed in
Libreville in January ended the fighting and created the unity
government.  Bozize Flight  The latest events in the country show that much of  Africa ’s
peace and security structure is “not yet fit for purpose,”
Alex Vines, head of the Africa Program at Chatham House in
 London , said in an e-mail.  The Economic Community of Central African States proved
“impotent” after failing to halt Seleka’s advance on the
capital, while former colonial ruler France failed to intervene,
only sending troops to support its nationals living in the
country, he said.  In addition, at least 13 South African soldiers, who have
been in the country since 2007, were killed in the battle for
Bangui. The South African troops were in Central African
Republic to provide training, Defense Minister Nosiviwe Mapisa- Nqakula said today. Seleka had demanded that Bozize order the
soldiers to withdraw before they ended their cease-fire.  “South Africa, once again, has blundered, as it did in
2010 and 2011 over Cote d’Ivoire when the post-election crisis
there forced  Pretoria  to re-evaluate,” Vines said.  Diamonds, Gold  Pangea Diamondfields Inc., an Isle of Man-based exploration
company, owns a concession in Central African Republic that is
currently on care and maintenance, according to the company’s
website.  Axmin Inc. (AXM) , a Canadian gold explorer, said Jan. 7 it
delayed plans to open a mine in the country by at least a year
because of the rebellion. Areva SA, a French developer of
nuclear reactors, started removing employees from its Bakouma
uranium mine in the Central African Republic after an attack
last year.  The country has a gross domestic product of about $3.6
billion and earns most of its foreign currency from timber and
diamond exports, according to the CIA World Factbook.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pauline Bax in Accra at 
 pbax@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  