-- Central Bankers Brace for Life With Politicians
-- B y   M a r i o   I .   B l e j e r
-- 2013-03-26T22:30:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/central-bankers-brace-for-life-with-politicians.html
The financial crisis and its
aftermath have raised questions about central banks and their
mandates.  In the past three decades, central banks adopted  price
stability  as their sole goal. This led to the rise of inflation
targeting as the key to monetary policy, and of its corollary,
central-bank independence from political interference.  However, the financial crisis forced central banks to pay
less attention to inflation and to implement unconventional
policies to achieve additional tasks. This brought about a quest
for redefining central-bank objectives and cast doubt on the
appropriateness of independence.  A couple of forces contributed to the decline of  inflation
targeting . First, it missed the asset and commodity bubbles and
the growing instability in the banking system before the
financial crisis. Second, with advanced economies in a recession
and struggling to reduce unemployment and to restore growth,
central banks have been called on to deal with these imbalances.  Against this backdrop, one should question whether
inflation targeting is effective during times of stress, and
more broadly, if it is a sustainable framework for working
through economic cycles. Indeed, one should be skeptical of the
legitimacy of a regime that zeroes in on a single goal only as
long as things are normal. One also should be forgiven for
wondering if an inflation target that can be set aside during a
crisis really counts as inflation targeting at all.  Stable Prices  Stable prices are no longer the sole target of central
banks in advanced economies. The  Federal Reserve  has all but
adopted an employment target and there is much talk about
targeting nominal gross domestic product and other benchmarks.
Moreover, financial stability is again a central-bank
responsibility, for the Fed as well as the  European Central
Bank .  Many observers have recently claimed that this shift to
multiple targets leads to a loss of central-bank independence.
The argument is that pursuing employment and growth targets and
providing financing directly to the economy are political
decisions that can’t be made by unelected officials. Moreover,
quantitative easing, by pushing  interest rates  toward zero, has
strong, and usually regressive, income-distribution effects,
leading to widening inequality. Such central-bank incursions
have powerful political implications and undermine the case for
independence.  This argument isn’t fully consistent. Although it is true
that multiple targets tend to increase the political
consequences of central-bank decisions, concentrating only on
fighting inflation also has distributional -- and therefore,
political -- implications. Politicized central banking is a
matter of degree and scale, not a real transformation.  The justification for central-bank independence was rooted
in two ideas. The first has to do with timing:  Monetary policy 
has expansionary effects in the short run but inflationary
consequences in the long run, and this can be exploited by
politicians during elections. The second is that central banks
are better suited than other policy makers or political leaders
to dealing with monetary issues. For the most part, central
banks can be trusted to pursue their goals without political
pressure.  However, the adoption of multiple targets cancels both
rationales. Central banks don’t have an advantage in other
policy objectives, aside from fighting inflation. So there is no
strong reason to give central bankers latitude in the design and
implementation of policies.  Political Interference  Since multiple objectives are here to stay for central
banks, we should expect steady erosion in their independence.
There are some positive aspects to this development. It restores
balance to decision making and helps policy coordination,
particularly in times of economic stress. It does require,
however, that political interference should be restricted.
Therefore, rather than bemoan reduced independence, it would be
useful to develop a transparent framework with well-defined and
clear rules.  An important caveat applies to  emerging markets .
Independent central banks and inflation targeting were, in most
of  developing countries , sound instruments for fighting
inflation. These central banks also fulfilled another critical
role: institution building.  Central-bank independence is a peculiar construct. In
today’s economic setting, though, preserving this paradigm may
result in outcomes at odds with democracy. Whether desirable or
not, central-bank independence will weaken. We had better be
ready to deal with that.  (Mario I. Blejer is a former governor of  Argentina ’s
central bank, was a senior adviser to the  International Monetary
Fund  and is currently the vice chairman of Banco Hipotecario SA.
The opinions expressed are their own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Mario I. Blejer at  admin@blejer.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  