-- Cerberus Prepared to Wait Up to 3 Years to Relist Seibu
-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r   a n d   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a
-- 2013-03-26T09:57:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/cerberus-prepared-to-wait-up-to-three-years-for-seibu-relisting.html
Cerberus Capital Management LP,
owner of 32.4 percent of Seibu Holdings Inc., is willing to wait
as long as three years for the relisting of the Japanese rail
and hotel operator.  The private-equity firm wants to increase its stake and
appoint three new directors before selling shares to the public
in two or three years, said Masakazu Iwakura, a lawyer for
Nishimura & Asahi who is advising the New York-based company.
Seibu, preparing for a listing as soon as possible, opposes the
Cerberus plan.  Cerberus, which oversees more than $20 billion, is offering
to raise its stake to as much as 36.4 percent after leading a
bailout of the company with Nikko Principal Investments  Japan 
Ltd. in 2005. Seibu is now “financially prepared” for the
relisting, according to President Takashi Goto.  “Cerberus wants to improve corporate value through the
addition of the new board members it is proposing,” Iwakura
said. “It may take two to three years.”  The Tokorozawa city, Japan-based rail operator had been
delisted from the  Tokyo  stock exchange in 2004 after misstating
stakes held by shareholders, breaking exchange rules.  Five Banks  The rail operator is predicting net income will increase to
12.4 billion yen ($132 million) in the year ending this month,
compared with 8.4 billion yen last fiscal year. It last year
hired five banks for a proposed initial public offering.  Cerberus is proposing Hirofumi Gomi, a former commissioner
of Japan’s Financial Services Agency; Masaharu Ikuta, former
president of  Japan Post , and Yuji Shirakawa, former chairman of
Citigroup Global Markets Japan, to join Seibu’s board.  “Cerberus’s tender offer and suggestion of new directors
is uncooperative, given our aim to list shares as soon as
possible,” Goto told reporters in Tokyo today. “Seibu wants to
continue discussions with Cerberus towards listing our shares.”  Cerberus plans to raise  voting rights  in Seibu to as much
as 36.4 percent through an offer to buy outstanding shares at
1,400 yen each, it said earlier this month.  Seibu was the seventh-largest railway operator in the Tokyo
area by ticket sales, according to figures from  East Japan
Railway Co. (9020) , the nation’s largest rail operator. It had 93.7
billion yen of ticket sales in the fiscal year ended March 2011,
according to  JR East . The company’s operations also include
hotels, golf resorts and buses.  Seibu was previously run by Yoshiaki Tsutsumi. He amassed a
$16 billion personal fortune while at its helm, making him the
world’s richest man in 1990, according to Forbes magazine.  “We’ve been friendly in our approach to Seibu, that’s
Cerberus’s basic policy,” said Iwakura. “Whatever they said
we’ve been cooperative.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
Kiyotaka Matsuda in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  