-- Chelsea’s John Terry May Move to Fenerbahce, Mail Says: Roundup
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2013-03-26T11:16:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/chelsea-s-john-terry-may-move-to-fenerbahce-mail-says-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of
soccer stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet
links.  Terry Turkey-Bound?  Chelsea captain  John Terry  may move to  Turkey ’s Fenerbahce
at the end of the season, the  Daily Mail  reported.  The 32-year-old, who has a year left on his contract, will
wait until the offseason before taking a decision, the newspaper
said.  Bayern Favorite to Sign Suarez  Bayern Munich  may have an edge over other clubs trying to
sign Liverpool’s  Luis Suarez  because the striker is advised by
incoming Bayern manager Pep Guardiola’s brother Pere, the  Mail 
reported.  Juventus, Bayern and Barcelona are all interested in
signing Suarez, who is valued at 40 million pounds ($61
million), the paper said.  Ex-Barcelona manager Guardiola will take over from Jupp Heynckes at Bayern at the end of the season.  Birmingham’s Teen Sensation  Birmingham may struggle to keep talented teenager Koby
Arthur as Arsenal, Chelsea and  Manchester City  have all
expressed an interest in the player nicknamed “King” Arthur,
the  Daily Mirror  reported.  Arthur, a 17-year-old who arrived from Ghana only 12 months
ago, was discovered by Birmingham scouts while playing non-
league soccer. He’s since moved from their community trust
soccer development set-up to a spot on the first-team squad.  Hammers Chasing Bony  West Ham is prepared to spend more than 11 million pounds
to fend off Fulham as it tries to sign  Ivory Coast  and Vitesse
Arnhem striker Wilfried Bony, the  Evening Standard  reported.  Vitesse wants at least 15 million pounds for the 24-year-
old, who according to an unidentified source is being watched by
five other Premier League clubs, the newspaper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  