-- Cheung Kong’s Profit Without Unit Rises on Rental Income Boost
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2013-03-26T09:23:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/cheung-kong-2012-profit-falls-as-disposal-gains-wasn-t-repeated.html
Cheung Kong  Holdings Ltd., the
builder controlled by  Asia ’s richest man, said 2012 profit
excluding contributions from unit  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13)  rose 6
percent as rental income growth offset a decline in home sales.  Profit excluding Hutchison increased to HK$19.1 billion
($2.5 billion) from HK$18.1 billion a year earlier, Cheung Kong
said in a statement filed to Hong Kong’s stock exchange. Net
income fell 30 percent to HK$32.2 billion, beating the HK$25.7
billion average estimate of 11 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Li Ka-shing ’s developer may face pressure this year after
Hong Kong’s government stepped up curbs aimed at preventing a
bubble in the world’s most expensive housing market. Cheung Kong
this month became the first developer to cut prices at its
apartment project in response to the curbs, with Deutsche Bank
AG forecasting  home value  in the city may decline as much as 20
percent over two years.  “Because of the price cut, profit margin will probably be
lower,” Lee Wee Liat, a Hong Kong-based analyst at BNP Paribas
SA, said before today’s earnings. “That’s why they’re trying to
offset this with a bigger volume.”  Shares of Cheung Kong rose 2.3 percent to close at
HK$113.20 today, narrowing its decline this year to 4.9 percent.
The earnings statement came after the market closed.  Rental Income  The lower net income last year was also due to a lack of
one-time gain in 2011 that came from Hutchison spinning off its
port business.  Earnings from property rentals for Cheung Kong, landlord to
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Barclays Plc in the city, increased
to HK$1.98 billion last year from HK$1.7 billion a year earlier.
Rental rates for retail properties in  Hong Kong  also gained,
reflecting rising demand from tourists and domestic spending, it
said.  The underlying profit was also helped by an increase in
profit from its infrastructure businesses, which rose to HK$1.04
billion from HK$130 million a year ago, the statement showed.
The company’s acquisitions of utilities assets in the U.K.
contributed to the gains.  Property Sales  By contrast, contribution from property sales fell to HK$10
billion from HK$11.2 billion a year ago. The company last year
booked sales in projects including La Splendeur and Le Chateau.  Hong Kong’s  home prices  have doubled in the past four years
on record low mortgage rates, a lack of new supply and an influx
of mainland Chinese buyers, raising concerns that housing is
becoming unaffordable for the general public. Chief Executive
Leung Chun-ying has made available more land for public housing
and imposed extra tax on foreign homebuyers since taking over in
July.  Cheung Kong last month raised HK$1.4 billion selling all
360 rooms at its Apex Horizon hotel project. Following the sale,
the government said in a statement it will inspect the
development to ensure the rooms aren’t being used as residents.  A day later the government doubled the stamp duty tax on
all properties of more than HK$2 million and raised mortgage
down-payment requirements, its first set of measures aimed at
non-residential properties, including hotel rooms, offices,
shops, and carparks.  Cutting Prices  Home transactions  in Hong Kong will probably fall below
3,000 this month because of the government measures, according
to a forecast by realtor  Midland Holdings Ltd. (1200)  That would be the
lowest level since 2003, when Hong Kong was near the end of a
six-year property price slump.  Cheung Kong will cut prices at the One West Kowloon project
by 11 percent after raising its overall home sales target by 10
percent for 2013, Executive Director Justin Chiu said March 7.  The company is cutting prices because it has to take the
lead to cooperate with the government, Chiu said in a March 23
interview.  Cheung Kong sold 3,336 new homes for HK$26.2 billion last
year, both highest among Hong Kong developers, according to data
compiled by Centaline Property Agency Ltd., the city’s biggest
closely-held realtor.  “They’re trying to cut prices in exchange for a bigger
volume,”  Cusson Leung , Hong Kong-based analyst at Credit Suisse
Group AG, said before earnings were announced. “And we are also
seeing less aggressive pricing by other developers with their
new projects as well.”  During the year, Cheung Kong sold their apartments at an
average price of HK$7.9 million, while  Sun Hung Kai Properties
Ltd. (16) , the city’s biggest builder by value, sold 1,654 homes at
about HK$13.4 million per unit, according to Centaline’s data.  Down Market  Other developers are responding to the curbs in different
ways. Sun Hung Kai and New World Development Co. in the past
month cut sales target by 8 percent and 12 percent for the
fiscal year ending June.  Cheung Kong will pay an final dividend of HK$2.63 a share,
unchanged from a year earlier.  Li, 84, has in the past two years said that if buyers need
to borrow too much, they shouldn’t buy properties. He also
warned property speculators and signaled his concerns the surge
in Hong Kong home prices may not be sustainable.  Nicknamed “superman” by the local media for his investing
prowess, Li forecast in 2007 that  China ’s stock-market bubble
would burst and in 2009 predicted the rally in Hong Kong home
prices. The Shanghai Composite Index lost 65 percent in 2008,
the most among the world’s 10 biggest stock markets.  Li, who opened a plastic flower factory after World War II,
began investing in Hong Kong real estate in 1967 after riots
from China’s Cultural Revolution depressed prices to build
Cheung Kong into a company with a market value of $34 billion.  Li, who’s 15th on the Bloomberg Billionaire Index with a
net worth of $26.8 billion, in July transferred a one-third
stake in a family trust that controls both Cheung Kong and
Hutchison Whampoa from son Richard to elder brother Victor, as
he seeks to consolidate succession planning.  Hong Kong’s richest man said in August that he will offer
financial support to allow  Richard Li  to build businesses
outside of the family’s Cheung Kong Group of companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net . 