-- Chinese Developers Market Dollar Bonds as Asia Debt Risk Rises
-- B y   T a n y a   A n g e r e r
-- 2013-03-26T06:04:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/chinese-developers-market-dollar-bonds-as-asia-debt-risk-rises.html
Beijing Capital Land Ltd. (2868)  and
 Greentown China Holdings Ltd. (3900)  are offering the first dollar-
denominated bonds from  China ’s real estate developers in two
weeks. Debt risk in the Asia-Pacific region rose.  Beijing Capital is marketing a perpetual note to yield in
the high 8 percent area, a person familiar with the matter said,
asking not to be identified because the details aren’t set. Hong
Kong-listed Greentown is offering an increase to its existing
8.5 percent bonds due February 2018, a separate person said.  Developers from China and Hong Kong, which raised $12.3
billion from dollar securities this year, have been absent from
the market since  Kaisa Group Holdings Ltd. (1638)  sold $550 million of
notes on March 12, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Many lenders
have started to control the scale of loans for real estate
development to coordinate with new property curbs, the China
Securities Journal reported today, without saying where it got
the information.  “It’s possible that Chinese developers will stage a
comeback,” said Annisa Lee, a Hong Kong-based credit analyst at
Nomura Holdings Inc. The issuers have “decent” cash on hand,
which will constrain any rebound in issuance, she said.  Beijing Capital is selling the first undated dollar bond
from Asia since  Petron Corp. (PCOR)  added $250 million to a line of
perpetual notes on March 7, Bloomberg-compiled data show.  Borrowers from Asia outside of  Japan  priced $2.3 billion of
debt yesterday in the busiest day since Jan. 29, according to
the Bloomberg-compiled data.  Bond Risk  The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside Japan rose 2 basis points to 120 as of 8:00
a.m. in Hong Kong, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc prices show.
The benchmark, which has ranged from 100.5 to 120.8 since Dec.
31, is set for its highest close since March 22, according to
data provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and
compiles prices quoted by dealers in the private market.  The Markit iTraxx Australia index increased 3.5 basis
points to 121.5 basis points as of 11:05 a.m. in Sydney,  Westpac
Banking Corp. (WBC)  prices show. The measure, which rolled to a new
series on March 20, is set for its highest close since Feb. 4,
according to data provider CMA.  The Markit iTraxx Japan index climbed 2 basis points to 109
as of 8:55 a.m. in  Tokyo , according to Citigroup Inc. prices.
The gauge has ranged from 101 to 148.1 this year, according to
CMA.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for insuring
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
credit quality. A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tanya Angerer in Singapore at 
 tangerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  