-- China’s First Publicly Glamorous First Lady
-- B y   A d a m   M i n t e r
-- 2013-03-26T21:46:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/china-s-first-publically-glamorous-first-lady.html
Peng Liyuan , celebrity folksinger
and wife of President Xi Jinping has a chic, elegant and
decidedly local look. Since March 22, when she appeared at a
 Moscow airport,  arm in arm with her smiling husband on the
opening leg of his first international trip as  China ’s new head
of state, talk of her has spread across newspapers, blogs and
microblogs. Especially as compared with her low-key, all-but-invisible first lady predecessors, Peng is a vision of modern
Chinese times, and modern Chinese people seem to be embracing
her.  “Peng Liyuan’s debut trip is remarkable. For a very long
time, Party leaders, and especially their wives, left dowdy
impressions,”  tweeted  a retired academic in Shandong province
via the Sina Weibo microblogging service on March 25. “No matter
if they were dignified ladies from a high-level background or
quiet ladies from humble circumstances, they were never so
brilliant or dazzling on the international stage.”  Of course, by the standards of international diplomacy and
state visits, the appearance of a well-coiffed First Lady Peng
beside President Xi is nothing special. Wives of heads of state
have long made a veritable cottage industry out of dressing well
for the cameras, ostensibly focused on their husbands. But
contemporary Chinese leaders and their wives have rarely taken
part in these displays, in part due to  the burden  of Maoist
history.  Jiang Qing ,  Mao Zedong ’s wife during his rise and rule,
played a key role in the crime that was the Cultural Revolution.
The wives of Mao’s successors, perhaps mindful of the public
role and ruin that Jiang -- and China -- suffered, were rarely
seen and almost never heard.  It’s impossible to say whether Chinese preferred their
first ladies to remain hidden. What’s more clear is that
starting in 2008, during the heat of the U.S. presidential
campaign, the good looks, considerable charm and formidable
oratorical skills of future president  Barack Obama  and his wife
Michelle inspired a  kind of envy  among young, online Chinese,
weary of the  charm-free image  of  Hu Jintao , his wife and their
leadership peers. Why didn’t China have a charismatic, dynamic
first couple to reflect the charismatic dynamism of the world’s
second largest economy?  Enter  Peng Liyuan .  When Peng married Xi in 1987 (his second marriage) she was
already a celebrity of considerable stature, having earned a
reputation as a pitch-perfect performer of popular songs on
Chinese national television. Recording opportunities and other
appearances soon followed, as did promotions within the civilian
branch of the  People’s Liberation Army . Today, she serves as a
 major general  and has a role as  Goodwill Ambassador for
Tuberculosis and HIV/AIDS  at the  World Health Organization .
This is a formidable resume for a first lady, leading many to
wonder: Would this woman be left in the shadows, too?  But when she stepped off the plane in Moscow, she and her
husband made it clear that she would at least look like a
different kind of first lady, if not act like one. Indeed, just
being there with her husband as he went about important business
was a shift away from the hide-the-wife approach of the past.  Neither the Chinese press nor the public seemed to know
what to do with such progress. So they did the natural thing:
They focused on her clothes. Her coat and bag were made in
China, though the designer of both  has yet to be verified . The
 anonymity of her bag , in particular, works in her favor. Luxury
handbags, especially those made by well-known brands like  Louis
Vuitton  or  Christian Dior , are viewed in China  as symbols not
only  of status but also of corruption and excess.  Of course, Peng’s choice of bag and coat was probably more
than a fashion statement, and state-owned and -run newspapers,
news sites and microblogs have been quick to echo and amplify
its supposed political meaning.  On March 25 Qian Suwei, a prolific commentator, offered one
such explanation in the  Beijing Morning Post : “Why does Peng
Liyuan’s bag receive so much attention? First, it’s because it’s
a domestically produced product. It is obvious that many Chinese
worship foreign products and even in turn discriminate against
our national brands…Second, it is not a luxury brand. In modern
China, luxury consumption has become fashionable to some people
and ’showing off wealth’ becomes a trend. Peng’s portfolio is
nothing less than a dose of sobriety to people who pursue
luxury.”  Chinese microbloggers have been similarly enthusiastic.
Some have gone so far as to favorably compare Peng with the
villainous Ri Sol Ju, the pop star wife of  North Korea ’s
dictator, who was seen last summer carrying a  Dior clutch . Most
appear to be more strictly focused on Peng’s coat and bag,
admiring her good looks and refined demeanor, with an
uncomfortable number referring to her as the very un-modern
“ mother of the country .”  It’s difficult to say how widespread the hagiographic
feelings for Peng extend. For reasons that are unclear,
microblogs and  even online shopping sites  are blocking searches
that might lead microbloggers and shoppers to  wardrobe
selections like Peng’s . On Sina Weibo it’s possible to search
for Peng Liyuan and Xi Jinping as separate terms, but not
together. Why? Perhaps the censors are concerned that the
country’s dour new president will be overshadowed by his dynamic
wife.  Whatever the reason, the censorship hasn’t completely
overcome the sometimes  negative comments  about the media’s
coverage of Peng.(Notably, there’s almost no criticism of Peng
herself, though it’s impossible to say whether that’s a function
of censorship or sentiment.) These comments, ironically, allow
Peng to at least partially transcend her wardrobe and be seen as
a substantive person.  Some of the most pointed criticism is directed at
microbloggers themselves, like this  March 23 tweet to Sina Weibo 
from a popular microblogger who claims to be based in the U.S.:
“Personally, I like her. But I think all of this praise should
be moderated. At a minimum, you should recall that in addition
to showing good manners, she and the man behind her are
shouldering big responsibilities. Nothing wrong with waiting
until they accomplish something, and then praising them.”  Meanwhile, growing numbers of female online voices
highlight what they perceive as the underlying sexism in the
praise heaped on Peng’s clothes and her role as arm candy for
the president. A magazine editor in Fuzhou sent this telling
 tweet to Sina Weibo on March 25 : “I don’t like for her to be
called ’Ms Xi’ or ’First Lady.’ She is Peng Liyuan, and she
became Peng Liyuan by her own talents and endeavors, not by
marrying someone in power. No matter who she marries, she will
always be Peng Liyuan, and her charisma will never be less.”  Xi Jinping surely knows this set of facts better than
anyone, and yet -- at the risk of being overshadowed -- he has
taken a remarkable first step toward establishing China’s first
couple as a public partnership. Peng Liyuan may not yet have the
public stature of a Michelle Obama, but the distance her
charisma and Chinese-made coat create between her present and
the muffled past of her predecessors is wide and growing.  (Adam Minter, the Shanghai correspondent for the World View
blog, is writing “Junkyard Planet,” a book on the global recycling
industry. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the author of this article:
Adam Minter at  ShanghaiScrap@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Zara Kessler at  zkessler@bloomberg.net . 