-- China Money Rate Snaps 3-Day Drop on Possible Property Measures
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2013-03-26T02:11:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/china-money-rate-snaps-3-day-drop-on-possible-property-measures.html
China’s money-market rate rose,
snapping a three-day decline, on speculation the central bank
will take measures to rein in home-price increases.  Many lenders have started to control the scale of loans for
real estate development, the China Securities Journal reported
today, without saying where it got the information. The China
Banking Regulatory Commission is drafting guidelines on property
lending including mortgages, the newspaper cited an unidentified
person close to the regulator.  “In China, a media report on banks preparing to tighten
mortgage-lending practices are likely to weigh on sentiment,”
Dariusz Kowalczyk, a strategist at Credit Agricole CIB in Hong
Kong, wrote in a research report today. “We expect the People’s
Bank of China to drain liquidity.”  The  seven-day repurchase rate , which measures funding
availability in the interbank market, climbed eight basis points
to 3 percent at 9:18 a.m. in Shanghai, according to a weighted
average compiled by the National Interbank Funding Center.  The central bank conducted 32 billion  yuan  ($5.2 billion)
of 28-day repurchase operations today in which it drains funds
from the banking system, according to a trader at a primary
dealer required to bid at the auctions. The contracts yielded
2.75 percent. It extracted 47 billion yuan from the market last
week.  Inflation may reach 2 percent in March, the central bank’s
academic adviser Song Guoqing was cited as saying by the
Shanghai Securities News today. Consumer prices rose 3.2 percent
in February, the most since April 2012, official data show.  The one-year interest-rate swap, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, fell one basis
point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 3.28 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  