-- China-Japan Spat Must Be Managed as Solution Remote, Rudd Says
-- B y   Z e b   E c k e r t   a n d   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2013-03-26T07:50:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/china-japan-spat-must-be-managed-as-solution-remote-rudd-says.html
Japan  and  China  must find common
ground in keeping their dispute over uninhabited islands from
escalating as a settlement is unlikely, former Australian Prime
Minister  Kevin Rudd  said.  “A final resolution of the territorial dispute is not
faintly within prospect,” Rudd said in a Bloomberg Television
interview today in Seoul. “But the common interests of both
countries surely lie in managing the external manifestation of
this dispute down to manageable security levels.”  Asia’s two biggest economies are boosting  defense spending 
as they assert claims to the resource-rich East China Sea
islands, fueling U.S. concerns of a military confrontation.
Planes and ships from both countries have shadowed each other
for months around the islands, known as Diaoyu in China and
Senkaku in Japan.  Japan accused China of using weapons-targeting radar in
January on a Japanese destroyer and helicopter in nearby waters.
The Chinese government denied the accusation.  China this month put the law enforcement arm of its
maritime agencies under one body as it presses its claims in
both the East and South China Seas. The move could help the
 State Oceanic Administration  streamline decision-making and
“therefore avoid conflict through miscalculation,” said Rudd,
a Mandarin-speaking former diplomat in Beijing.  The dispute has harmed a $340 billion trade relationship,
dragging down Japanese exports.  Xi Jinping, who this month became China’s president after
taking the top post in the ruling Communist Party in November,
isn’t beholden to the military because of his father’s legacy as
a leading figure in Mao Zedong’s revolution, Rudd said. As a
result, the new Chinese leader will be free to concentrate on
expanding the world’s second-largest economy and its
international influence, he said.  “Xi has no reason to appease the military constituency,”
Rudd said. “He’s looking for a new model to manage
relationships between great powers.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zeb Eckert in  Hong Kong  at 
 zeckert1@bloomberg.net ;
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  