-- China, Brazil Sign $30 Billion Swap Accord to Bolster BRICS
-- B y   D a v i d   B i l l e r   a n d   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o
-- 2013-03-26T18:21:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/china-brazil-sign-currency-swap-agreement-for-30-billion.html
China and Brazil agreed to
establish a swap line of about $30 billion in their respective
currencies as they work to reinforce the clout of the world’s
largest  emerging markets  on a global stage.  China, the world’s second-biggest economy, is promoting the
role of the yuan, also known as RMB, in international trading
and financing as it moves to reduce its control over the
currency and open up its financial markets.  Its agreement with Brazil forms part of the message from
BRICS countries, which include Russia, India and  South Africa ,
that existing financial architecture is inappropriate to deal
with the world’s main challenges, said Joao Augusto de Castro Neves, an analyst at political risk consultancy Eurasia Group.  “There is economic justification for the swap deal, but
there are undeniable political repercussions,” he said by
telephone from Washington. “The BRICS have been one of the main
items in Brazil’s foreign policy agenda over the past three or
four years, so there’s interest in maintaining the BRICS as a
relevant forum. This moves the BRICS in that direction.”  The  currency swap  is worth 190 billion  yuan  or 60 billion
reais, the  People’s Bank of China  said in a statement on its
website today. China is Brazil’s biggest trading partner, with
imports and exports between the two countries reaching $75.5
billion last year. China’s central bank said the three-year swap
agreement will only be used in case of a credit crisis and could
be rolled over after expiration.  Deeper Integration  “Independently of global financial conditions, with this
swap Brazil and China will have the necessary financing to keep
our bilateral trade relations as they are today,” Brazil’s
central bank President Alexandre Tombini told reporters in
Durban. “The idea is not new, but is important. The agreement
is another important step in the direction of a deeper
integration between central banks.”  The BRICS, which have combined foreign-currency reserves of
$4.4 trillion and account for 43 percent of the world’s
population, have called for an overhaul of management of the
 World Bank (BOWEMBA)  and  International Monetary Fund  to give the rising
economic powers a stronger voice. Leaders of the countries are
assembled in Durban, South Africa, where they are set to approve
creation of a new  development bank  and discuss the pooling of
foreign-currency reserves to mitigate economic crises.  “The swap won’t affect Brazil’s reserves because it’s in
local currency,” Tombini said. Nor will it affect current trade
financing, he added.  Tombini and Brazil’s Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said
the agreement has no relation to Europe’s financial crisis
because it has been negotiated for eight months. Mantega said
the BRICS’ proposed pool of reserves would contain almost $100
billion, and likewise would not affect Brazil’s international
reserves.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Arnaldo Galvao in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net ;
David Biller in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 dbiller1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net ;
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  