-- China Revises Fuel-Price Controls; Sinopec, PetroChina Gain
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-27T02:34:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/china-revises-fuel-price-controls-gasoline-diesel-rates-cut.html
China , the world’s second-biggest
oil consumer, changed its system for setting gasoline and diesel
prices to more closely track refiners’ crude costs. Shares in
China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. and  PetroChina (857)  Co. rose.  Retail price adjustments will be based on the average cost
of a basket of crudes over 10 working days, down from 22 days
previously, and a threshold for triggering a revision will be
abolished, the National Development and Reform Commission said
in a statement on its  website  yesterday. The NDRC also cut
gasoline and diesel prices for the first time in four months,
effective today.  The new mechanism will mean more-frequent fuel-price
revisions that better reflect movements in the global crude
market and reduce speculation, the NDRC said in the statement.
It may also curb processing losses at the nation’s oil
companies, according to Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.  China
Petroleum (386) , or Sinopec, the nation’s biggest refiner, recorded an
operating loss for 2012 at its processing unit of 11.9 billion
 yuan  ($1.9 billion), it said March 24. PetroChina, the second-
largest, lost 43.5 billion yuan, it said March 21.  “This is a very significant policy toward bringing about
more stable refining margins and making refining in China a
profitable business,”  Neil Beveridge , a senior analyst for
Asia-Pacific oil and gas at Bernstein in  Hong Kong , said by
phone yesterday. “We’ll see Chinese diesel and gasoline prices
moving more in line with international pricing. This is
significant for the Chinese refiners, Sinopec in particular.”  Share Gains  Sinopec gained 1.7 percent to $9.07 in Hong Kong at 10:06
a.m. local time. PetroChina was up 1.6 percent at $10.34. The
benchmark  Hang Seng Index  climbed 0.8 percent.  China may still hold off from a fuel-price adjustment if
gasoline or diesel is due to rise or fall by less than 50 yuan a
metric ton, or when the country is facing “significant”
circumstances such as high inflation or steep increases in
international crude prices, said the NDRC, the nation’s top
economic planner.  The government also changed the composition of the basket
of crude grades it monitors, the NDRC said in the statement,
without elaborating. Under the previous mechanism, introduced in
December 2008, the NDRC tracked the 22-working-day moving
average of a mix of Brent, Dubai and Indonesia’s Cinta grades.
It considered a price adjustment if the average moved more than
4 percent from the previous change. That threshold has been
abolished, yesterday’s statement showed.  “This is a big milestone for the  energy industry  and a big
win for the refiners,” said  Gordon Kwan , the head of energy
research at Mirae Asset Securities Ltd. in Hong Kong. “The new
scheme should lead to more market-driven prices, which will lead
to improved profitability.”  Price Cuts  Under the price reductions announced yesterday, the maximum
tariff for gasoline falls by 310 yuan a ton and diesel by 300
yuan a ton. The pump price of 90-RON, China III gasoline in
Beijing will decline 3 percent to 9,720 yuan a ton, or $4.47 a
U.S. gallon, NDRC data show. That compares with an average cost
of $3.68 a gallon for regular retail gasoline in the U.S. in the
week ended March 25, according to  figures  from the Energy
Department. The China III specification is similar to the Euro
III fuel standard.  China last cut fuel prices on Nov. 16 and raised them on
Feb. 25.  Brent crude , the benchmark price for more than half the
world’s oil, has dropped about 4.4 percent since the Feb. 25
revision.  “They’ve had this controlled-price system, and those
systems can be horribly expensive,”  John Vautrain , the owner of
Vautrain & Co., an energy consultant in  Singapore , said by
phone. “If you have a free price at which you are acquiring
supplies and a fixed price at which you are selling them,
there’s always a possibility that things will get out of whack.
So this ought to make life easier for the traders.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Jing Yang  in Shanghai at 
 jyang251@bloomberg.net ;
Ramsey Al-Rikabi in Singapore at 
 ralrikabi@bloomberg.net ;
Winnie Zhu in Singapore at 
 wzhu4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  