-- Clariant Emphasizes Ventures Over Another Sued Chemie-Sized Deal
-- B y   P a t r i c k   W i n t e r s
-- 2013-03-26T12:52:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/clariant-emphasizes-ventures-over-another-sued-chemie-sized-deal.html
Clariant AG (CLN) , nearing the
integration of its $2.5 billion purchase of Sued-Chemie, will
focus on joint ventures and bolt-on acquisitions, Chief
Executive Officer Hariolf Kottmann said.  “There’s no strategic takeovers like Sued-Chemie on the
agenda,” Kottmann told shareholders gathered for an annual
meeting at a center in  Basel ,  Switzerland .  Clariant will seek smaller deals to acquire technologies,
fill regional gaps and extend its supply chain, said the CEO. It
will also seek more partnerships such as last year’s amines
joint venture with Singapore-based agribusiness  Wilmar
International Ltd. (WIL)  Chairman Rudolf Wehrli told Basler Zeitung
earlier this week that the company would take a close look at a
Sued-Chemie type deal if it were available.  Kottmann met minimal outcry from investors after leading
Clariant through its biggest transformation since its spinoff
from drugmaker Sandoz in 1995. He’s carving out commodity
chemicals and building a new base upon Sued Chemie’s catalysts
used to cut exhaust pollution as well as to produce chemicals.
Clariant bought the business in 2011 for 2.4 billion francs
($2.5 billion).  After earmarking five units for disposal, the CEO swiftly
dispatched three of them to SK Capital Partners for $540 million
at the end of last year. Sale processes are under way for
remaining leather-chemical and detergent-ingredient businesses,
and Clariant hopes to complete those transactions by the end of
2013, Kottmann said.  Clariant says it needs to conquer  Asia  to offset an
enduring decline in Europe. European markets may shrink by as
much as 5 percent, Wehrli said in his address to shareholders.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Winters in Zurich at 
 pwinters3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  