-- Colorado Sheriffs Join Peers Saying Gun Laws Not Viable
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   O l d h a m
-- 2013-03-26T01:59:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/colorado-sheriffs-join-peers-saying-gun-laws-not-viable.html
Just days after Governor John Hickenlooper signed Colorado’s toughest gun-control laws in more
than a decade, some sheriffs are denouncing them as
unenforceable, even in a state that has seen two of the worst
mass shootings in U.S. history.  The county-level officers say measures limiting ammunition
 magazines  to 15 rounds and requiring background  checks  for
firearm purchases are impossible to carry out because they’re
poorly written and don’t clearly define the elements of a crime.  “I’ve taken a stance that I will refuse to enforce any law
that violates peoples’ constitutional rights,” said Teller
County Sheriff  Mike Ensminger , based in Divide, about 26 miles
(42 kilometers) west of  Colorado Springs , the state’s second-
largest city.  “We can’t figure out how these laws would be enforced at
this point in time without violating someone’s constitutional
rights,” Ensminger said in a telephone interview. “If the
elements of the crime are confusing and don’t make sense, it’s
going to be difficult to enforce those laws for fear the
defendant would turn around and bring a lawsuit against the
county.”  The stance reflects the view of hundreds of rural law-
enforcement officials in states from  California  to  Maryland  who
publicly proclaimed in the weeks following the massacre at
Newtown,  Connecticut ’s Sandy Hook Elementary School that they
would defy new gun laws in the name of protecting their
constituents’ right to bear arms. That divide persists
throughout the U.S. as the debate over tightened gun
restrictions plays out in Congress and statehouses.  ‘Unconstitutional’ Actions  “The scale of what we’re seeing now is unprecedented,”
said Mark Potok, a senior fellow at the Montgomery, Alabama-
based Southern Poverty Law Center. “We have hundreds and
hundreds of sheriffs around the country saying they will not
enforce any  gun control . We have 20 states considering laws that
would nullify any gun legislation. That is unconstitutional.”  The  Colorado Association of Chiefs of Police  took a
different tack, endorsing the new firearms laws, which were
introduced on Feb. 5 and approved by the Democrat-controlled
legislature six weeks later, over protests from Republicans that
they criminalized law-abiding citizens and did nothing to
improve safety.  At a news briefing following a private  bill-signing 
ceremony March 20, Hickenlooper called on county sheriffs to
carry out the new measures.  “I fully expect all of our sheriffs and chiefs of police
to enforce the law to the best of their ability,” said the
governor, 61, a first-term Democrat.  Theater Shootings  The laws were passed eight months after James Holmes was
arrested in the deaths of 12 people and the wounding of 58
during a shooting rampage at an Aurora movie theater, and almost
14 years after two students killed 13 people and themselves at
Columbine High School in a Denver suburb.  The debate over tightened gun laws will continue in
Colorado this week when a  House of Representatives  committee
holds hearings on a bill that would require in-person training
for concealed carry permit applicants and a measure that would
require domestic-violence offenders to surrender firearms.  As the debate over gun control goes on, sheriffs nationwide
vowed disobedience should new gun measures be applied in their
areas.  2nd Amendment  About  380 sheriffs  declared they would uphold the U.S.
Constitution’s 2nd Amendment right to bear arms in the weeks
following the massacre at Sandy Hook Elementary School, where 20
children and six adults died, according to statements compiled
by the Pima, Arizona-based Constitutional Sheriffs and Peace
Officers Association.  The group’s beliefs represent a rerun of the politics that
historically accompanied efforts to strengthen firearms laws,
gun-control advocates say.  “Sheriffs and radical politics are nothing new on the gun
issue,” said Ladd Everitt, director of communications for the
Washington-based  Coalition to Stop Gun Violence . “These are
elected officials and if you get someone from a right-wing
county. you’re going to have this.”  The majority of the nation’s 3,080 sheriffs don’t hold such
views, Everitt said. He pointed to a Feb. 1  resolution  by the
Alexandria, Virginia-based National Sheriffs Association, saying
the group “supports the rights conferred by the 2nd Amendment
and further recognizes the ultimate authority of the courts in
interpreting the scope of those constitutional rights.”  Passionate Promises  Some sheriffs in states such as  Colorado , where efforts are
under way to tighten gun laws, are passionate in their promises
to defy them.  “I would never enforce such legislation in my county and
put my deputies in harm’s way,” said Wicomico County Sheriff
 Mike Lewis , president of the Maryland Sheriffs’ Association. “I
cannot imagine sending them to homes of law-abiding citizens to
remove their weapons.”  Legislation that would enable some of the nation’s
strictest laws, including a ban on assault rifles and high-
capacity magazines, keeping guns out of the hands of the
mentally ill, and imposing new licensing rules for handguns,
including training and fingerprinting requirements for permit
applicants, is pending in Maryland’s House of Delegates.  In most cases, sheriffs won’t be called upon to carry out
new gun laws in their jurisdictions, said  Gary Kleck , a
professor of criminology and criminal justice at  Florida State
University .  ‘No Role’  “If they catch someone in public with a gun, but without a
permit, that’s the kind of arrest they can make,” he said.
“Otherwise, police have virtually no role in enforcing any kind
of gun-control law.”  In Colorado, sheriffs said new laws limiting magazine
capacity and requiring background checks for all firearm
transactions are unenforceable because they’re too broadly
written and will harm the rights of law-abiding residents who
want to loan their weapons to relatives or neighbors.  “I don’t know when you got it,” said El Paso County
Sheriff  Terry Maketa , of the new ammunition restrictions. “I
don’t know how you got it. That is taken as I won’t enforce it,
but in fact you can’t enforce it.”  Sheriffs said they’ve received hundreds of calls and e-
mails from people who are worried the laws will hamper their
ability to protect themselves in their homes.  “Everywhere I go in my community -- I’m not
exaggerating,” said Moffat County Sheriff  Tim Jantz , based in
the northwest corner of Colorado. “Peoples’ number-one concern
is, ‘Are they going to take away my right to carry concealed?’
and, ‘Are they going to make me register my guns?’”  Lawsuit Plan  Maketa, whose county includes Colorado Springs, said he’ll
join other sheriffs in filing a lawsuit challenging the new laws
on the grounds that they violate the 2nd Amendment right to bear
arms and the 14th Amendment that forbids states from restricting
its residents’ rights.  “The sheriffs are going to sue and I am going to represent
them,” said David B. Kopel, an adjunct professor of advanced
constitutional law at the University of Denver. “According to
 District of Columbia  versus Heller, you cannot ban firearms
which are used by law-abiding citizens for legal purposes.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer Oldham in Denver at 
 joldham1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Taylor at 
 jtaylor48@bloomberg.net  