-- Colombia Central Bank’s Monetary Policy Rate Statement (Text)
-- B y   D a n i e l   G r i l l o
-- 2013-03-26T17:22:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/colombia-central-bank-s-monetary-policy-rate-statement-text-.html
Following is the text from
Colombia’s  Central Bank  statement on the benchmark interest
rate decision. The translation to English was provided by the
Central Bank on its website.  Banco de la República Lowers the Benchmark Interest Rate by 50
Basis Points  At its meeting today, the Board of Directors of Banco de la
República agreed to lower the benchmark interest rate by 50
basis points. In doing so, it placed the base overnight rate for
expansion auctions at 3.25%.  This decision was taken in light
of the fact that the Colombian economy is growing below its
potential and probably will operate below its productive
capacity in the coming quarters. Moreover, actual inflation and
forecast inflation are under the 3% target, and the current
context is one where pass-through of the interest rate cuts does
not appear to be as quick as desired.  The Board of Directors considered the following relevant factors
in reaching this decision:  Colombia ’s trading partners are likely to grow less than
expected. If this provides to be the case, the contribution to
the country’s economic growth stemming from external demand
would remain low.  Moreover, if the trend observed in prices for
Colombia’s major exports continues, terms of trade would average
less in 2013 than they did last year. Consequently, aggregate
spending in 2013 would see no additional boost from an increase
in national revenue.  The new data on economic growth in 2012 (4%) show a slowdown
from the high levels witnessed in 2011 (6.6%). The major loss in
momentum came during the second half of the year and was
explained largely by a significant reduction in investment
growth. The rise in private consumption slowed during 2012,
reaching rates similar to its historical average. The increase
in exports also declined compared to 2011, with a significant
drop during the fourth quarter.  The explanation for the shocks to investment in the second half
of 2012 is complex and may be due to a number of reasons, as
indicated by the fact that all the components of this aggregate
slowed during the final six months of the year.  As for the first quarter of 2013, the deterioration in trade
expectations and the drop in the  consumer confidence  index and
auto sales suggest less momentum in private consumption.  The
value of exports in dollars during January was similar to the
figure posted a year earlier, and industrial exports saw
positive annual growth. However, indicators of business
confidence suggest industry continues to contract. This momentum
denotes current economic growth below potential and, hence, an
increase of the shortcomings with respect to use of industrial
productive capacity.  The decline in annual inflation from 2.0% in January to 1.8% in
February was similar to what the technical team predicted. This
slowdown is explained largely by the reduced rate at which food
prices increased, mainly those for processed foods. All
measurements of  core inflation  declined as well.  The average
for these measurements is below the target (3%), as are
inflation expectations. The recent decline in international
prices for energy and other commodities means less pressure on
domestic inflation.  Banco de la República’s interest rate cuts have passed through
to  interest rates  on deposits and loans in the financial system.
However, real interest rates have not fallen to the same extent,
thanks to the sharp drop in inflation and inflation
expectations.  Growth in the loan portfolio continued to ease.  There has been
a slowdown in commercial lending in pesos so far this year, but
an increase in financing through corporate bond issues, coupled
with more foreign borrowing. Household lending (consumer loans
and home mortgages) continues to grow less, but at rates higher
than nominal GDP growth. The continued slowdown in the pace of
leveraging by companies and households reduces the risk of
generating financial excesses during the current expansionary
phase of monetary policy.  In this context, an assessment of the risk balance points to the
advantage of lowering the intervention interest rate by 50 basis
points. In doing so, macroeconomic policy is expected to be
consistent with economic growth near its potential.  The Board will continue its careful monitoring of performance
and projections with respect to economic activity and inflation
in Colombia, asset markets and the international situation.
Finally, it reiterates that monetary policy will depend on new
information as it becomes available.  SOURCE: Banco de la Republica
 http://www.banrep.gov.co/   To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Grillo in Bogota at 
 dgrillomader@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  