-- Congo Reassures Copper Miners Rattled by Attack in Katanga
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 2013-03-27T15:30:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/congo-reassures-copper-miners-rattled-by-katanga-militia-attack.html
Democratic Republic of Congo’s
mines minister reassured investors after separatists attacked
the capital of mineral-rich Katanga province, raising concern
among analysts that the region faces increased conflict.  At least 35 people died when 250 Kata Katanga militants
battled soldiers and police in Lubumbashi on March 23 before
surrendering to the United Nations. The government introduced a
curfew and some businesses and schools closed early on March 25
in the city, home to the offices of some of the biggest mining
companies operating in Congo.  “I’m personally reassuring miners that these events are
temporary and will be completely put to a halt,” Mines Minister
 Martin Kabwelulu  said by mobile-phone message on March 25. “A
psychosis will reign for several days, but that will pass as
well.”  After years of conflict and instability, Congo’s mining
industry has flourished since 2009, with copper production
doubling to about 600,000 metric tons last year, most of it
coming from Katanga in the southeast. The Central African
country was the eighth-largest producer of the metal in 2012,
accounting for 3.4 percent of world output, according to the
U.S. Geological Survey. It also produces half of the world’s
cobalt, used in rechargeable batteries.  Mining Hub  Lubumbashi is a hub for copper and cobalt miners operating
in Congo, including  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX) ,
 Ivanplats Ltd. (IVP)  and  Glencore International Plc. (GLEN)  The city of about
1.5 million people, less than 20 miles from the border with
Zambia, has largely escaped the violence that plagues most of
Congo’s eastern frontier.  Investors are concerned that may be changing, said Jean-
Baptiste Bouzard, Africa analyst at Maplecroft, the Bath,
England-based risk analysis company.  “The scale of the attack is of particular concern to the
business community,” he said by e-mail. “Although the group
was mostly armed with rudimentary weapons and was rapidly
suppressed by the security forces, the involvement of an
estimated 300 militants demonstrates the Bakata Katanga
movement’s capacity to cause large-scale disruption.”  Kata Katanga means “cut out Katanga” in the Swahili
language, while Bakata Katanga means “the people who cut out
Katanga.”  Most attacks by the separatists and other militia, known as
Mai Mai, have taken place between the central Katangan towns of
Manono, Pweto and Mitwaba, at least 200 miles north of
Lubumbashi. The number of displaced people in the region has
increased sixfold since January 2012 to 316,000, the UN says.  Secession Movements  While parts of Katanga tried to secede immediately after
Congo’s independence from  Belgium  in 1960, the recent Mai Mai
groups grew out of contemporary political and economic
circumstances, said Professor Georges Nzongola-Ntalaja, author
of The Congo from Leopold to Kabila: A People’s History.  “They are young people with no hope for the future, who
have not finished high school, with no opportunities, who can’t
find a job,” Nzongola-Ntalaja said in a phone interview from
the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. “They’re
easily recruited into these groups that promise them pie in the
sky.”  Fewer than 10 percent of Congolese have formal jobs,
according to the World Bank.  An estimated 1,500 children have joined Mai Mai groups in
Katanga, according to the UN Children’s Fund. Forty children
aged between 10 and 17 were removed from the Kata Katanga ranks
after their surrender, Cornelia Walther,  Unicef’s  spokeswoman in
Kinshasa, said by e-mail.  Do Better  Kabwelulu said the government needs to do better.  “The government must clearly take care of the social needs
of the population,” he said. The mines minister said he would
“intensify the creation of mining cooperatives,” which would
offer more jobs to independent diggers who use pickaxes and
shovels to mine ore.  Katangan politics and rivalries between different regional
and ethnic groups also fuel conflict, Nzongola-Ntalaja said,
particularly as the government plans to increase the number of
provinces from 11 to 26. The process, meant to boost the power
of local governments, would divide Katanga into four smaller
provinces.  “A small group of disgruntled politicians, who are worried
that the division of the province of Katanga into four provinces
is going to deny them control of the resources,” are supporting
the Mai Mai, Nzongola-Ntalaja said.  The Kata Katanga members will face trial in Congo’s
capital, Kinshasa, according to the government.  Neither Freeport’s nor Glencore’s projects in Katanga were
affected by the attacks, company spokesmen officials said
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Kavanagh in Kinshasa on 
 Mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 