-- Court Rulings Force Abe to Confront Voter Disparities
-- B y   J o h n   B r i n s l e y
-- 2013-03-26T08:25:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/court-rulings-force-abe-to-confront-japanese-voter-disparities.html
Japanese court rulings invalidating
part of December’s election because of the outsize weight of
rural votes is putting pressure on Prime Minister Shinzo Abe to
rectify the situation with legislation.  The Hiroshima High Court yesterday for the first time
declared an election invalid due to gerrymandering, voiding the
result in two districts. Another court made a similar decision
today. Four courts this month ruled the lower house contest, in
which the value of a vote in the least populous district was
worth 2.43 times that in the most populous one, unconstitutional
while ratifying the results.  While the rulings are subject to appeal to the Supreme
Court, they raise the risk of some lawmakers being ousted from
their seats. The decisions may force Abe, who is enjoying record
popularity over his economic policies, to address electoral
reform before July’s upper house elections that could cement his
hold on power.  “The main thing the courts have done is tell the Diet to
fix it, and I think something will be done quite rapidly,” said
Steven Reed, a political science professor at Chuo University in
 Tokyo . “This could be an image problem for Abe, whose
government is doing very well. This is a glitch he needs to
fix.”  While the Diet passed a bill last year aimed at reducing
the maximum vote disparity, it postponed implementation. Then-
Prime Minister Yoshihiko Noda reached a deal with Abe’s Liberal
Democratic Party in November on legislation cutting the number
of seats from rural prefectures by five, reducing the maximum
disparity to below 2 to 1.  The realignment wasn’t put into place for the December
vote, and a legislative panel on the issue plans to release its
proposal on March 28, according to the Internal Affairs
Ministry.  ‘Black Cloud’  A lack of progress on electoral reform could be a “black
cloud” hanging over Abe’s economic policies, Robert Feldman,
head of Japan economic research at Morgan Stanley MUFG
Securities Co. in Tokyo,  wrote in a research report  today.  “Reform that corrects the overweighting of the votes of
the elderly would make it easier to implement the ‘third arrow’
policies (i.e. microeconomic reforms) that are crucial to the
success of Abenomics,” Feldman wrote.  “Any reform that fails
to correct this overweighting would raise serious concerns,”
about the success of these policies, he wrote.  “Bold” monetary policy, a “flexible” fiscal stance and
a growth strategy to stimulate private investment, are the three
elements that Abe advocates.  ‘Very Severe’  “This was a very severe decision and we take it very
seriously,” Japanese Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga
told reporters today in Tokyo about yesterday’s ruling.
“Efforts are being made to regroup constituencies, including
reducing the number of seats by five. The government, upon
receiving the recommendations, would like to take legal actions
promptly.”  The Okayama branch of the Hiroshima High Court today ruled
the election in a rural district invalid and two other rulings
labeled the results unconstitutional, Kyodo News reported. The
Hiroshima court’s ruling yesterday voided the results of two
constituencies, including that of Foreign Minister Fumio Kishida.  Kishida will keep his seat until at least Nov. 26, pending
an appeal from Hiroshima’s election board to the Supreme Court,
the Asahi newspaper reported.  Japan ’s highest court in 2011
declared the 2009 lower house elections, in which the widest
ratio between rural and urban votes was 2.30 to 1, “in a state
of unconstitutionality” without nullifying the results.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Brinsley in Tokyo at 
 jbrinsley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  