-- Cyprus Bailout Signaling Devaluation of Subordinated Debt Swaps
-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s
-- 2013-03-26T12:44:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/cyprus-bailout-signaling-devaluation-of-subordinated-debt-swaps.html
Senior bank debt is being priced as
the riskiest relative to junior bonds in almost six months as
Cypriot plans to impose losses on higher-ranking investors roils
credit markets.  Senior and subordinated measures of the Markit iTraxx
Financial Index of credit-default swaps on 25 European banks and
insurers have both increased for 10 of the past 12 trading days.
The senior measure is rising at a faster pace, driving the ratio
between them to the lowest level since September.  The Cypriot rescue marks the first time euro-region
officials have forced higher-ranking bank creditors to share the
burden, and investors are hedging the risk it sets a precedent.
They’re also becoming concerned that junior debt insurance
doesn’t cover new risks such as last month’s nationalization of
Dutch lender  SNS Reaal NV (SR) , which eliminated bonds that could be
used to settle swaps.  “Not only are losses at a senior level becoming more
likely, but sub CDS protection is likely to be rendered
worthless in cases where bonds are completely converted to
equity or wiped out,” said  Matt King , global head of credit
strategy at Citigroup Inc. in  London .  The subordinated index now costs 1.6 times that for senior,
down from 1.75 last month and an average of 1.7 since the
measures started trading in 2004, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The ratio may fall to 1.5 times, King said.  The senior gauge increased to 189 basis points today from
139 on March 8, while the subordinated measure rose to 306 from
236, Bloomberg data show.  A basis point on a credit-default swap contract protecting
10 million euros of debt from default for five years is
equivalent to 1,000 euros a year. Swaps pay the buyer face value
in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abigail Moses in London at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  