-- Cyprus May Extend Offshore Gas Tender to Attract More Bids
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2013-03-26T16:39:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/cyprus-may-extend-offshore-gas-tender-to-attract-more-bids.html
Cyprus is considering whether to
extend next month’s deadline for bids for an oil and gas round
to entice more potential investors as it seeks to maximize
revenue and bolster finances.  The government is holding an auction for offshore
 exploration permits  covering the south of the island, according
to the Cyprus Hydrocarbons State Co., also known as Kretyk. It
has already granted licenses for exploratory drilling in six
blocks to  Noble Energy Inc. (NBL) ,  Total SA (FP)  and a joint venture
between  Eni SpA (ENI)  and  Korea Gas Corp. (036460)   “The bidding finishes on the 26th of May, though possibly
we can extend this period,” Solon Kassinis, vice president of
Kretyk, said in a phone interview.  The east Mediterranean island nation says it has gas
reserves of as much as 60 trillion cubic feet, equal to about 21
years of U.K. demand. The gas reserves could help the economy
recover after Cyprus avoided a sovereign default by accepting a
10 billion-euro ($13 billion) bailout.  “We shall prepare requests for interest to see if we are
going to collaborate to materialize LNG,” Kassinis said,
referring to plans to export liquefied natural gas. More
companies are interested in exploring off Cyprus, he said,
without identifying any.  Noble plans to start drilling an appraisal well in June and
may announce the commercial viability of their field in block 12
in the Economic Exclusion Zone by the end of the year, Kassinis
said. The deposit holds at least 7 trillion cubic feet of gas,
which could rise to as much as 10 trillion cubic feet with
further exploration, he said.  “Depending on the actions we take and how fast we do it,”
Kassinis said, the first LNG could be shipped from Cyprus by
2018.  Total, Eni and Kogas plan to conduct seismic surveys this
year and drill their first wells in 2014, Kassinis said.
Russia’s OAO Gazprom hasn’t sent Cyprus a proposal to explore
for gas in the island’s waters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  