-- Dallas Fed Favoring Reduced Asset Purchases on U.S. Recovery
-- B y   M a h m o u d   K a s s e m   a n d   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2013-03-26T13:13:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/dallas-fed-president-fisher-sees-u-s-economic-growth-at-3-.html
Dallas Fed President Richard Fisher
said he’d like the U.S. to reduce its mortgage-backed security
purchases program amid signs that the economy will probably grow
at about 3 percent by the end of the year.  “I’m personally in favor of tapering back our mortgage-
backed security purchases,” Fisher told reporters today at a
conference in Abu Dhabi. “I think we’ve assisted the recovery
of the housing market. We have a pretty robust housing situation
right now. We don’t want to slip backwards.”  Chairman Ben S. Bernanke and his colleagues on the Federal
Open Market Committee last week pledged to press on with $85
billion in monthly bond buying even as some Fed officials called
for scaling back the record stimulus. The FOMC will continue
buying until the labor market improves “substantially.”  The FOMC plans to continue buying $40 billion of mortgage-
backed securities and $45 billion of Treasuries each month,
which has expanded the central bank’s balance sheet to a record
$3.21 trillion. The policy-setting panel said it will keep the
main interest rate near zero as long as unemployment remains
above 6.5 percent and the outlook for inflation doesn’t exceed
2.5 percent.  Dial Back  “Do we continue at this pace or do we dial it back?”
Fisher said. “One of the developments that has occurred has
been a more rapid snap back in housing prices. I think we can
easily taper back without doing damage to the market place.”  The world’s largest economy grew at a 0.1 percent annual
rate in the fourth quarter, up from a previously estimated 0.1
percent drop, the Commerce Department said last month. Growth
will be 1.9 percent this year, according to the median of 81
economist estimates in a March 8-13 Bloomberg survey.  Residential real estate prices increased in January by the
most since June 6. The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values
in 20 cities climbed 8.1 percent in January from the same month
in 2012 after rising 6.8 percent in the year ended in December,
the group said today in New York. The increase exceeded the 7.9
percent median forecast by economists in a Bloomberg survey.  Orders for U.S. durable goods climbed more than forecast in
February, propelled by automobiles and a rebound in commercial
aircraft. Bookings climbed 5.7 percent, the most since
September.  ‘Good Numbers’  “We’ve seen some pretty good numbers on employment, we’ve
seen some pretty numbers on retail sales,” Fisher said. “We’ve
seen some pretty good durable goods numbers. There seems to be a
more positive tone.”  Fisher, who doesn’t vote on monetary policy this year, said
the growth is coming from  Texas  and other areas in the middle of
the country as New York and  California  lose population.  Bernanke and Federal Reserve Bank of New York President
William Dudley yesterday defended their policy of keeping the
benchmark lending rate near zero. Thirteen of 19 FOMC
participants estimated at last week’s meeting that the first
increase in the federal funds rate will be in 2015.  Fisher, 64, has been president of the Dallas Fed since
2005. His district includes Texas, northern  Louisiana  and
southern New Mexico.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mahmoud Kassem in Abu Dhabi at 
 mkassem1@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  