-- Dark Pools Hamper Market Efficiency, Should Be Avoided, ASX Says
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2013-03-26T03:58:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/dark-pools-hamper-market-efficiency-should-be-avoided-asx-says.html
Dark pools reduce efficiency by
dividing markets and should be avoided unless there’s a good
reason, such as block trades, to use them, said  ASX Ltd. (ASX)  Chief
Executive Officer Elmer Funke Kupper.  “Fragmentation is ultimately the enemy of efficient
markets, so you need a good reason to not transact in a single
market,” Funke Kupper, head of  Australia ’s biggest exchange
operator, said in a speech in Sydney today. “Block trades,
where institutions try to find each other with large orders in
an efficient way with minimum market impact costs, is such a
good reason.”  New rules to be enforced in May will require trades done in
dark pools, broker-operated private venues that don’t display
orders publicly, to achieve a better price than public venues. A
study by the  Australian Securities and Investments Commission 
released this month proposed that where price formation
deteriorates due to dark-pool trading, there should be a trigger
to implement a minimum-size threshold for orders.  “We do support a threshold of between A$20,000 ($20,904)
and A$50,000 or possibly higher, what we’d like to do is make
sure that the trigger for that is as simple as possible,” Funke
Kupper said.  ASX’s main Australian exchange handled 67 percent of trades
of shares listed on the  S&P/ASX 200 Index (AS51)  in February while its
dark pool, Centre Point, handled 3.7 percent, according to
Fidessa Group Plc.  In the U.S., a Rosenblatt Securities Inc. report tracking
19 venues showed dark pools accounted for a record 14.3 percent
of U.S. equity volume in January.  High-Frequency Trading  On high-frequency trading, while some behavior by market
participants does “undermine confidence,” that is more a
result of the number of trades taking place, rather than the
speed, Funke Kupper said.  “Today, trades below A$500 represent some 40 percent of
the trades on the exchange; that used to be 10 percent a number
of years ago,” he said. “We should have controls for small
orders. When we analyzed the market, there tend to be between
five and nine investment banks and brokers that generate all
this order proliferation.”  In a separate study also released this month, ASIC said
concern about high-frequency trading is “overstated,” and that
it found no systematic manipulation of markets by traders using
these strategies. ASIC proposed a new rule for minimum resting
periods for “small and fleeting” orders and another for the
guidance on trading practices that may illustrate manipulative
activity.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net  