-- Johnson Senate Exit Puts Control, Bank Chairman in Play
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2013-03-27T04:00:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/democratic-senate-control-harder-with-7-romney-state-bids.html
U.S. Senator Tim Johnson’s decision
to retire after the 2014 election makes the Democrats’ job of
holding their Senate majority tougher.  Johnson, 66, the Senate banking committee chairman, is the
second Democrat from a state won by Republican nominee  Mitt Romney  last year to say he won’t seek re-election in 2014. His
announcement yesterday means that in Republican-leaning states,
his party must defend those two open seats and support five
incumbents running for re-election.  “I will be 68 years old at the end of this term, and it is
time for me to say goodbye,” Johnson said at a news conference
in his home state of South Dakota.  His announcement sets up a possible fight over who would
head the Senate Banking, Housing & Urban Affairs Committee --
which oversees financial regulation legislation -- in the 2015-
16 congressional session.  Senator Jack Reed of Rhode Island, next in line to be
chairman if Democrats maintain their Senate majority, may opt
instead to lead the Armed Services Committee. Another top
Democrat on the panel, Senator Robert Menendez of New Jersey,
may decide to retain his Foreign Relations Committee
chairmanship.  Other Democrats in line for the post are  New York  Senator
Charles Schumer, whose constituents include Wall Street, and
Ohio Senator Sherrod Brown, an advocate for breaking up the
largest U.S. banks. The panel’s ranking Republican is Mike Crapo
of  Idaho .  2014 Races  In all, 21 Senate seats now held by Democrats are up for
re-election next year, and five of them have been opened up by
retirement announcements. Among Republicans, 14 Senate seats
will be on the ballot and only one of the party’s incumbents --
three-term Senator Susan Collins of Maine -- is seeking re-
election in a state Romney lost to President  Barack Obama . So
far, Republicans must defend two open seats, in  Georgia  and
Nebraska, both of which Romney carried.  “The battle for the Senate will come down to Democrats’
ability to hold seats in Republican-leaning states,” said
Nathan Gonzales, deputy editor of the non-partisan Rothenberg
Political Report, based in  Washington . “A lot depends on how
popular the president is” next year “because if people are
dissatisfied, their option is to vote against the president’s
party.”  Obama Agenda  At stake is a second-term agenda laid out by Obama that
includes a revision of immigration laws, gun restrictions and a
rewrite of tax laws and such entitlement programs as Medicare
and Medicaid to curb the budget  deficit .  Since Republicans won control of the House in 2010, the
Senate’s Democratic majority, now 55-45, has been a bulwark for
the White House in blunting proposals advanced by House Speaker
John Boehner, an Ohio Republican, and members of his party.  Republican leadership of the Senate would give that party
the ability to block Obama’s agenda or have significantly more
influence over the scope and details of major legislative
initiatives during his final two years in office.  Republican control of both chambers of Congress “would
exacerbate the kind of gridlock we already have,” said Alan Abramowitz, a political scientist at Emory University in
Atlanta.  Still, even if Democrats lose their Senate majority,
Republicans probably wouldn’t control the 60 votes needed to
advance major legislation in the chamber.  “It’s not clear to me it would make that much difference
in terms of legislation getting passed because not much is
getting passed already,” Abramowitz said.  Brain Hemorrhage  Johnson, a three-term senator, suffered a brain hemorrhage
in December 2006. He returned to the Senate in September 2007
and won re-election in 2008. The hemorrhage impaired Johnson’s
speech and he uses an electric scooter to navigate between the
Senate floor and his office.  “Always a fighter, Tim’s return to the Senate floor after
a life-threatening brain injury was a powerful moment and his
recovery continues to inspire us all,” Obama said in a
statement. “I look forward to working with Senator Johnson as
he finishes his third term.”  Johnson’s announcement follows Senator Jay Rockefeller’s
decision in January not to seek re-election in West Virginia,
which Romney carried last year.  The five Democratic incumbents running in states Romney won
are Mary Landrieu of  Louisiana , Kay Hagan of North Carolina,
Mark Pryor of  Arkansas , Max Baucus of Montana and Mark Begich of
 Alaska .  ‘Six-Year Itch’  In addition to facing Republican-leaning electorates, these
Democrats could be plagued by the “six-year itch,” said
Jennifer Duffy, a Senate analyst at the non-partisan Cook
Political Report in Washington. Since 1958, the party of all but
one two-term president has lost Senate seats in the
administration’s sixth year, she said.  The exception came in 1998 when there was no net change in
the number of Senate Democratic seats.  “The public’s view of Republicans was very negative” at
that time because they had “shut the government down three
years earlier and tried to impeach” Democratic President Bill Clinton, Duffy said.  Democratic Senators Carl Levin of  Michigan , Frank Lautenberg of New Jersey, and Tom Harkin of  Iowa  also have
announced plans to retire after 2014. The two Republicans who
have said they won’t run next year are Mike Johanns of  Nebraska 
and Saxby Chambliss of Georgia.  Timing Importance  Early notice of retirements will give Democrats more time
to recruit strong candidates and raise money.  “It’s a lot better to know now” about a retirement than
“a few weeks before the filing deadline,” said David Rohde, a
political scientist at Duke University in Durham, North
Carolina. “The seats that are vacant vary in how difficult it
will be for Democrats to recruit a very strong candidate,” he
said.  Democrats want to avoid being caught flat-footed as
Republicans were last year when Senator Olympia Snowe of Maine
waited until eight months before the Nov. 6 election to bow out
of her re-election race, hurting the party’s chances to identify
a replacement candidate.  Maine  voters elected a former governor
to the seat, Angus King, an independent who caucuses with the
Democrats.  Democratic Prospects  In South Dakota, two Democratic candidates are well-
positioned to run, said Ben Nesselhuf, chairman of the state
party.  Stephanie Herseth Sandlin, elected three times to the
state’s at-large House seat before losing in the 2010 election,
“could run for any office in the state and win,” Nesselhuf
said.  Johnson’s son, Brendan, who is now the U.S. attorney for
South Dakota, “is probably the best natural campaigner I’ve
ever seen,” Nesselhuf said in a telephone interview.  Even before Johnson’s retirement announcement, both
Rothenberg and the Cook political reports rated the seat a
“tossup” for 2014. Mike Rounds, a former two-term Republican
governor, announced last year he is running.  Republicans may confront the same pitfalls in South Dakota
that helped cost them control of the Senate in the 2012 and 2010
elections, Duffy said.  “The opportunities are all there, but do they repeat the
mistakes they made in the last two cycles by nominating
candidates who are too conservative to win statewide?” she
said.  Candidate Comments  Last November, voters in  Missouri  and  Indiana  split their
support between Romney and Democratic Senate candidates after
the Republican Senate candidates --  Todd Akin in Missouri and
 Richard Mourdock  in Indiana -- made controversial remarks about
rape and abortion.  “Democrats are not in a great position,” yet
“Republicans have not demonstrated the ability to take
advantage of the gift Democrats have handed them,” Duffy said.  In South Dakota, Rounds may face the sort of primary
challenge that led to the nominations of Aiken and Mourdock.  Anti-tax Tea Party activists are urging Kristi Noem, the
state’s two-term House member, to challenge him in a primary.
Matt Hoskins, director of the Senate Conservatives Fund, said in
a statement that his group wouldn’t support Rounds and will seek
to recruit a “principled conservative leader” to challenge
him.  In Iowa, Republican Representative Steve King hasn’t
announced a Senate candidacy in the race to succeed Harkin,
“but he is busy scaring people away” from seeking the party’s
nomination, Duffy said. A co-founder of the House Tea Party
caucus, King “is probably not an ideal statewide candidate,”
Duffy said.  2012 Predictions  Jim Messina, Obama’s 2012 campaign manager and chairman of
Organizing for Action, the non-profit group organized to promote
the president’s second-term agenda, noted that as the 2012
campaign was gearing up, many analysts predicted that Democrats
would lose Senate seats in the elections, and perhaps lose
control of the chamber. Instead, the party added two seats to
its majority.  Democrats “will hold the Senate” in 2014, he said in an
interview at a Bloomberg Government luncheon in Washington
yesterday.  In gauging specific races, he said “we can’t really judge
this until we see who comes out of the primaries” on the
Republican side and the outcome of Democrats’ candidate
recruitment process for open seats.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  