-- Deutsche Bank May Have Rating Cut by S&P as Legal Costs Rise
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2013-03-26T20:15:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/deutsche-bank-may-have-a-rating-cut-by-s-p-as-costs-hurt-profit.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , Germany’s biggest
bank, may have its credit rating cut by  Standard & Poor’s  after
the lender reduced its reported profit for 2012 amid rising
legal costs.  Deutsche Bank’s A+ long-term rating was placed on
CreditWatch negative, S&P said today in a statement. The
Frankfurt-based firm said last week it had set aside additional
money to cover costs linked to U.S. mortgage lawsuits and other
regulatory probes, lowering 2012 profit by about 400 million
euros ($514 million) to 291 million euros.  The world’s biggest banks are facing regulatory probes and
lawsuits linked to the alleged manipulation of benchmark
 interest rates  as well as the improper sale of products such as
interest-rate derivatives. Deutsche Bank, led by co-Chief
Executive Officers Anshu Jain and Juergen Fitschen, also said in
October it’s a defendant in “numerous” civil suits as an
issuer or underwriter in residential mortgage-backed securities.  “Ongoing economic, regulatory, and legal risks will
continue to hurt the bank’s performance,” S&P said in the
statement.  The bank’s ability to generate capital amid Europe’s
economic turmoil, including “recent tensions” in Cyprus, faces
“substantial risks,” S&P said. “Deutsche Bank’s
capitalization is still below peers’ in our view, despite a
significant improvement on the second half of 2012.”  The lender’s investment-banking operation also faces
regulatory changes and “legal and operational risks,” the
ratings company said. The  Federal Reserve  seeks to subject the
biggest foreign banks to stricter U.S. capital rules, which
could significantly increase the cost of doing business in the
U.S. for  European banks , S&P said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donal Griffin in  New York  at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  