-- Diageo Woos China Diaspora With 108-Proof Liquor
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-27T09:09:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/diageo-to-sell-china-white-liquor-in-spain-middle-east-in-2013.html
Diageo Plc (DGE) , the world’s largest
liquor company, will expand sales of the  Shuijingfang  white
spirit to  Italy ,  Spain  and the  Middle East  this year to reduce
reliance on the liquor’s home market by tapping Chinese abroad.  Overseas sales may rise to 40 percent of the company’s
total as early as 2016, from about 10 percent now, said James
Rice, general manager at  Sichuan Swellfun Co. (600779) , the Diageo unit
making the white spirit, or baijiu. Chinese travelers and
overseas Chinese will be the core foreign buyers of the sorghum-
based liquor in the short to medium term, he said from  Chengdu ,
western  China , without giving a more specific timeframe.  “Westerners can acquire a taste for baijiu” in the longer
term, Rice said in a phone interview on March 22. “Baijiu is
the best drink to go with Chinese food. It’s a perfect match.”  The international expansion by the maker of Smirnoff vodka
and Johnnie Walker Scotch whisky comes amid Chinese President Xi
Jinping’s curbs on extravagant spending by government officials.
The crackdown has hurt sales of high-end goods including baijiu
from Swellfun and  Kweichow Moutai (600519)  Co.  “Swellfun should target the Chinese population overseas as
a starting point,” said Jessie Guo, head of Asia consumer
research at Jefferies Hong Kong Ltd. “Non-Chinese may find it
hard to accept the taste, so the market potential for white
liquor overseas may be limited.”  About 50 million people of Chinese origin live outside
China, Li Haifeng, former director of the State Council’s
overseas Chinese affairs office, said March 12.  Worldwide Network  Diageo will leverage its global network to expand marketing
of Shuijingfang outside China, with sales starting in Italy,
Qatar, Spain and the  United Arab Emirates  this year, Rice said.
The liquor, originating from a  600-year-old distillery , is
already sold in 42 airports and as well as stores in markets
such as  South Korea .  Swellfun is about 40 percent  owned  by Sichuan Chengdu
Quanxing Group Co., which is 53 percent controlled by Diageo.
The London-based distiller has said it would like to increase
its stake at some point, Lisa Crane, a spokeswoman, said in an
e-mail on March 25.  Diageo shares rose as much as 0.4 percent to 2034 pence and
traded at 2028.50 pence as of 8:38 a.m. in  London . Swellfun
dropped 2.8 percent to close at 16.18 yuan in Shanghai trading.  Kweichow Liquor  In Chinese tradition, baijiu is synonymous with lavish
banquets and is favored by the wealthy and government officials
as holiday gifts. A one-liter bottle of Shuijingfang with 54
percent alcohol content in a gift box sells for 2,899  yuan 
($467) on  Amazon’s China website .  A same-sized bottle of 106-proof alcohol from Kweichow
Moutai, China’s largest baijiu producer by market value, is
priced at 799 yuan, according to amazon.cn. Kweichow Moutai
sells its white liquor overseas through a distribution
partnership with French cognac maker Camus.  Sales of baijiu are forecast to rise 4.9 percent in 2013,
unchanged from the past two years, according to Euromonitor
International. An estimated 98 percent of China’s sales of
spirits, which include vodka and whisky, were made up of baijiu
last year, according to the market researcher.  Baijiu Cocktails  Diageo plans to hold baijiu-tasting sessions at top
restaurants overseas, and introduce chefs from Chengdu who will
show diners how to pair the liquor with food, Rice said. The
company also plans to host a baijiu cocktail-making competition
this year to expand consumption of the spirit beyond the dining
table, he said.  President Xi’s austerity drive among government officials
helped push down prices on some high-end spirits by about 30
percent over the Lunar New Year holiday in February, according
to Ministry of Commerce figures.  Rice said he expects the impact on the baijiu industry to
be limited to the short term. With longer term growth in mind,
Diageo is looking to create other premium white-spirit brands,
he said.  “Baijiu’s not going to leave the Chinese dining table,”
Rice said. “It’s just going to be sold through different
channels and different consumers.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  