-- Doctor-Owned Device Suppliers Deemed Inherently Suspect
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2013-03-26T19:18:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/doctor-owned-device-suppliers-deemed-inherently-suspect.html
Doctor-owned businesses that act as
middlemen between medical device makers and hospitals are
“inherently suspect” and some of their practices may violate
U.S. anti-kickback laws, a government inspector general said.  Daniel Levinson, the inspector general for the Health and
Human Services Department, today issued an unusual “special
fraud alert” about so-called physician-owned distributorships,
or PODs. The companies sell medical devices that the doctor
owners then use in surgical procedures on their own patients.  The greatest concern is about implantable medical devices,
an area in which doctors have wide latitude in selecting the
type and brand of device that will be used in patients. When the
doctor performing the surgery also has an ownership interest in
the distributor of the device, the risk of fraud and abuse is
substantial, Levinson’s office said in its  notice .  “Anytime a few bad actors determine the treatment and care
of patients, as this warning makes clear, patient safety is put
at risk and millions of dollars are lost to fraud,” Senator
 Orrin Hatch  of  Utah , the senior Republican on the Senate Finance
Committee who has been tracking the use of PODs, said in an e-
mail. “I will continue to scrutinize these high-risk structures
and demand answers from HHS.”  Doctor-owned suppliers can help reduce health-care costs
when operated ethically and legally, said John Steinmann, an
orthopedic surgeon who is an owner of the distributor Inland
Spine & Orthopedics in Redlands, California.  Public Trust  “We recognize that this valuable model bears a risk of
abuse,” Steinmann, who also represents the industry trade group
 American Association  of Surgeon Distributors, said in a phone
interview. “We’re happy that the OIG is creating clarity in
defining the characteristics of distributorships that violate
the public trust.”  The HHS inspector general said the financial incentives
PODs offer may push their doctor-owners to perform more
procedures than medically necessary and to use the PODs’ devices
over other more appropriate products, Levinson’s office said.  “PODs are inherently suspect under the anti-kickback
statute,” he said.  Steinmann said that to his knowledge, neither his company
nor any other associated with the trade group are under
investigation by the inspector general.  Hatch’s staff, in a June 2011 report, found “rapid
proliferation” of PODs since 2009 and that they operated in at
least 20 states. The companies are concentrated in  California ,
where Hatch’s staff counted at least 40 and said they specialize
in spine and joint implants.  The finance committee has congressional oversight of the
Medicare program for the elderly and disabled and the joint
federal-state Medicaid plan for the poor, both of which are run
through the Health and Human Services Department.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  