-- DSM’s Flirt With Red Hot Mamas Cuts Investor Love for Plastics
-- B y   M a a i k e   N o o r d h u i s
-- 2013-03-26T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/dsm-s-flirt-with-red-hot-mamas-cuts-investor-love-for-plastics.html
Royal DSM NV’s expansion into
higher-margin nutritional supplements including menopause
remedies has some investors questioning the less profitable
plastics, fibers and resins assets.  While demand is growing for i-cool menopause and i-flex
joint supplements, sold in  Walgreen Co. (WAG)  drugstores, earnings
from caprolactam used in nylon are being squeezed by benzene
prices. Asset sales are bound to follow as the Dutch company
moves away from its near 100-year chemical heritage, said SNS
Asset Management’s Corne van Zeijl.  “DSM still has the legacy of some traditional chemicals,”
said van Zeijl, who manages $1.3 billion including DSM stock.
“We expect they’ll sell this business eventually and just focus
on higher-margin vitamin and nutrition markets.”  The $1 billion purchase of baby-food ingredient maker
Martek Biosciences Corp in 2010 brought the Heerlen,
Netherlands-based company a step closer to the consumer. DSM,
which stands for Dutch State Mines, has already sold fertilizer,
melamine and citric acid units, while pumping $3.1 billion into
nutrition deals. Exiting materials and chemicals altogether
could boost shares to 50 euros a piece, according to ABN Amro
analyst Mutlu Gundogan.  DSM has declined 1.4 percent in Amsterdam trading this year
and closed at 45.17 euros yesterday, valuing the company at 8.6
billion euros ($11 billion). Over the past year, the stock has
risen 2.4 percent, underperforming the 11 percent gain of the
17-member Bloomberg Europe Chemicals Index, which includes
 Germany ’s BASF SE and Switzerland’s  Clariant AG. (CLN)   Sharing Technology  DSM Chief Executive Officer Feike Sijbesma, who has been a
member of the managing board since 2000 and became CEO in 2007,
said last week that the company benefits from having different
components.  “The advantages are in technology,” the CEO said. “We’re
using biotechnology in the materials field and some of the
materials we’re increasingly selling in life sciences. But I
have to say, there are also some businesses in our portfolio
that don’t have any synergies.”  Sijbesma initially highlighted a two-prong acquisition
strategy for both nutrition and materials, where caprolactam is
used. In recent years, he spent most money on the nutrition
segment and also has said that he’s evaluating options for 
merchant caprolactam.  Toothbrushes to Suits  Still, DSM, as part of a joint venture with Sinopec and
Jiangsu Guoxin Group, is nearing the completion of the world’s
biggest caprolactam plant in Nanjing, adding an expected 400,000
tons of annual capacity.  DSM’s caprolactam business may face significant price
pressure in  China  because of new plants and as new rivals enter
the market, the company said in its annual  report . Caprolactam
is a chemical that feeds into DSM’s plastics operations,
including Nylon 6 used in a broad range of goods from
toothbrushes to suits.  The i-cool brand -- introduced in May 2010 and recommended
by organizations such as the  Red Hot Mamas  menopause help group
-- is so far a nascent area of the growing nutrition division at
DSM, which generated 3.7 billion euros in 2012. Its main focus
has been supplying supplements and blends of vitamins to
manufacturers, a business that yielded a margin in excess of 21
percent in 2012 compared with 10 percent in materials and 8
percent in polymer intermediates.  The nutrition division accounted for more than 70 percent
of operating earnings in 2012 and generated about 40 percent of
total sales, up from 30 percent in 2008 when the business
overtook performance material as the biggest revenue source.  Ageing Population  The global nutritional supplement market is predicted to
swell to $107.54 billion by the end of 2015 from $86 billion in
2010, according to research by Koncept Analytics. Growth is
being driven by an ageing population, rising consumer awareness
of health issues and associated medical-treatment costs, and a
changing lifestyle of urban populations.  Martek was one of a string of purchases by trained medical
biologist Sijbesma, who created the i-health unit to bring
together products developed in DSM laboratories that had no path
to market via existing clients, as well as acquired consumer
brands.  In a March 20 interview, Sijbesma said the i-cool brand
gives insight into test how to sell products directly to
consumers.  “It’s a small part of our business, but definitely
interesting because it creates a connection with the end
consumer, and we’re testing that,” he said. “You could compare
it to sticking a toe in the water.”  Marketing Risks  While nutrition is a market where margins are attractive,
it’s a market with certain risks as marketing products to
consumers is more difficult than selling chemicals to other
companies, said SNS Asset Management’s Van Zeijl.  “By moving towards consumers, the company will also have
to deal with marketing the brand, like Heineken and Unilever.
That could be complicated,” he said.  ABN analystGundogan said that even without a disposal of
DSM’s chemical assets, the company’s nutrition business is set
to become the main focus.  The company is “transforming towards a full-fledged pure
play nutrition company,” he said said. “When you look at where
capex and the M&A budget were spent in the past year, I’m
convinced about that.”  Last year alone, DSM bought Omega 3 supplier Ocean
Nutrition Canada, bespoke food-ingredient company Fortitech, and
animal-nutrition company Tortuga. DSM is the world’s biggest
maker of vitamins, competing in that market with BASF and  Lonza
Group AG. (LONN)   Life Sciences  Peers including  DuPont Co. (DD)  also underwent transformations
to capture demand for value-added, technology based ingredients
that fall under the life sciences banner. DuPont purchased food-
ingredient maker Danisco for $7.1 billion in 2011 and the
company is selling commodity businesses.  Other investors such as Patrick Beijersbergen, who
represents shareholder group VEB, say Sijbesma should be given
the necessary time to wait for the best possible moment to sell
assets.  “It would make sense DSM will in the end just focus on
nutrition and vitamins and divest the materials units, so they
can really invest in and focus on one particular area,”
Beijersbergen said. “But divesting the materials units can only
happen at the right price and the right conditions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maaike Noordhuis in Amsterdam at 
 mnoordhuis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  