-- DuPont and Monsanto Agree to End Lawsuits
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2013-03-26T20:20:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/dupont-monsanto-agree-to-end-lawsuits.html
Monsanto Co. (MON)  and  DuPont Co. (DD) , the
world’s largest seed companies, agreed to drop their respective
antitrust and soybean patent lawsuits and enter into licensing
agreements for making genetically modified crops.  Monsanto will ask the St. Louis federal court to dismiss
its claim that DuPont infringed patents for Roundup Ready
soybeans, setting aside a $1 billion jury award, the companies
said today in a joint statement. DuPont will ask the court to
dismiss its claim that Monsanto uses monopoly power to stifle
innovation.  The agreement follows recent legal victories by St. Louis-
based Monsanto over its smaller rival in the $34 billion seed
market. A U.S. jury in August ordered DuPont to pay Monsanto for
infringing seed patents, and the U.S. Department of Justice and
state attorneys general dropped probes late last year into
industry antitrust concerns raised by DuPont.  “We have spent a lot of time and a lot of energy fighting
each other,” Scott Partridge, a Monsanto vice president, said
in a telephone interview today. “There came a point after a
bunch of confrontations where their interests and our interests
aligned.”  In the agreements announced today, DuPont’s Pioneer seed
unit will license the newest versions of Monsanto soybeans
engineered to tolerate Roundup and another weed killer and make
a series of royalty payments to Monsanto totaling $1.75 billion
through 2023, the companies said.  DuPont Patents  Monsanto gains access to DuPont patents for crop-disease
resistance and a corn defoliation technique.  Monsanto  rose  4.4 percent to $103.79 at the close in New
York, the most since Jan. 5. DuPont, based in Wilmington,
 Delaware , fell 0.3 percent to $48.97.  “It’s very positive for Monsanto,” because the pact
removes legal uncertainty and sets a timetable for royalty
payments, Kelly Wiesbrock, who helps manage $1.3 billion at
Harvest Capital Strategies LLC in San Francisco, said today in a
telephone interview.  DuPont plans to begin selling soybeans containing
Monsanto’s latest weed-tolerance technology, branded as Roundup
Ready 2 Yield, starting in 2014, DuPont Pioneer President Paul Schickler said today on a conference call with analysts. DuPont
expects to begin selling Monsanto’s Roundup Ready 2 Xtend
soybeans, which add tolerance to the weed killer dicamba, in
2015 pending regulatory approvals, he said.  New Trait  DuPont has been the only major seed company that has
shunned the new Roundup Ready trait in favor of the original
technology, which loses U.S. patent protection next year. DuPont
will study whether the technology improves yields during trials
this year, Schickler said.  “They’ve thrown in the towel and said, ‘We want this new
technology,’” Jason Dahl, a New York-based fund manager who
helps manage $3 billion for Victory Capital Management Inc.,
said by telephone today. “It’s a big plus for Monsanto.”  Royalty payments to Monsanto will be $346 million from 2014
to 2015, $456 million in the next two years, and per-unit
payments starting in 2018 that will total at least $950 million,
DuPont said in a filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission.  DuPont, the largest U.S. chemical maker by market value,
also gets rights to Monsanto regulatory data for off-patent
traits used to make crops that tolerate herbicides and kill
insects, allowing it to add the technologies to its corn and
soybean lines.  $1 Billion Verdict  The jury in St. Louis awarded the $1 billion verdict on
Aug. 1 after finding DuPont willfully infringed Monsanto’s
patent on original Roundup Ready soybeans by adding the
technology to seeds with a similar DuPont trait known as GAT.
Today’s agreement won’t prompt a revival of the abandoned GAT
project, Schickler said.  U.S. District Judge Richard Webber was scheduled to oversee
a second trial in October on DuPont claims that Monsanto uses
monopoly power to stifle innovation, restricting use of Roundup
Ready while making it difficult for other companies to develop a
competing trait.  During the course of the infringement trial, Webber said
DuPont “knowingly perpetrated a fraud against the court” and
sanctioned the company for lying about its right to use Monsanto
technology. Webber provided the sanctions order to the Justice
Department in February 2012.  ‘Hammer and Tong’  DuPont said in the regulatory filing today that the two
companies agreed to present the fraud sanctions to a higher
court. Partridge said Monsanto will continue to argue that
Webber was correct in sanctioning DuPont.  “We are going to fight them hammer and tong,” Partridge
said.  DuPont also agreed to drop its suit over a defoliation
technique that increases the vigor of corn seed, providing
Monsanto access to relevant patents, Schickler said today.  Cross licensing technologies is common when settling
lawsuits over patents for creating genetically modified crops.
Monsanto between 2005 and 2008 settled seed patent cases with
Dow Chemical Co.,  Syngenta AG (SYNN)  and  Bayer AG (BAYN)  by agreeing to cross
license genetic traits.  The cases are Monsanto Co. v. E.I. duPont de Nemours & Co.,
09cv686, U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of
 Missouri  (St. Louis) and Pioneer Hi-Bred International Inc. v.
Monsanto Co., 11cv497, U.S. District Court for the Southern
District of  Iowa  (Des Moines).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  