-- The Five Ways Deflation Has Already Taken Hold
-- B y   A .   G a r y   S h i l l i n g
-- 2013-03-26T22:30:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/the-five-ways-deflation-has-already-taken-hold.html
Of the seven varieties of
deflation, five are already at work in the  U.S. economy .  Commodity Deflation: In 2009 and 2010, the increases in
commodity prices revived memories of the 1970s inflation spiral
that resulted from the earlier mushrooming costs of the  Vietnam
War  and the Great Society programs. Speculators and investors
further inflated that bubble. Many pension and endowment funds,
as well as individuals, became convinced that commodities were a
legitimate investment class, like stocks and bonds, and they
piled in and even doubled their bets as prices soared.  In recent years, many investors have been impressed by
 China . Yet despite efforts to reorient that economy toward
domestic growth, it remains export-driven. The slow global
growth of the last five years will probably persist in this age
of deleveraging. Considering the continuing retrenchment of U.S.
consumers, the demand for exports from China and most other
 developing countries  will be muted, as will their related need
for commodities.  I predict further declines in commodity prices as
oversupply continues to swamp demand amid weak global growth and
a hard landing in China.  Higher Wages  Wage-Price Deflation: Wage-price inflation causes wages to
push up prices, which then drive up wages in a self-reinforcing
cycle. This, too, was an affliction of the 1970s, when it
combined with slow growth to cause stagflation.  Back then, labor unions had considerable bargaining power.
Furthermore, many top U.S. executives felt an obligation to
ensure that their employees’ wages kept pace with inflation.
They failed to realize that, as a result, inflation was
transferring their profit to labor -- and also to government,
which taxed underdepreciation and inventory profit.  This brought about a collapse in corporate profits’ share
of  national income  to 7 percent from almost 14 percent in 1982.
At the same time, the share of profit going to employee
compensation rose to 67.5 percent from 61.5 percent.  In response, and in the face of intense foreign
competition, corporate leaders restructured. Union membership
and power plummeted as operations and jobs moved to cheaper
locations offshore and as the economy became increasingly high-
tech and service-oriented.  The wage-price spiral peaked in the early 1980s as
consumer-price-index inflation began its three-decade-long
decline.  Today, the wage-price spiral has been reversed. Contrary to
most forecasters’ expectations, wages are being cut, the
casualty of excess capacity in the labor market, weak job growth
and stubbornly high unemployment.  Financial-Asset Deflation: Perhaps the best recent example
of financial-asset inflation was the dot-com collapse in 2000.
It was the culmination of the long  bull market  that started in
1982 and was driven by the convergence of a number of
determinants. Declining inflation rates in the 1980s and ’90s
pushed down  interest rates  and lifted price-earnings ratios;
U.S. business restructured and productivity leaped, starting in
the 1990s; U.S. consumers embarked on a three-decade-long
borrowing-and-spending binge that drove their savings rate to 1
percent from 12 percent, and their borrowing rate to 135 percent
of after-tax income from 65 percent. Meanwhile, consumption
spending increased to 71 percent of gross domestic product from
62 percent.  Bull Market  The  bull market  was accompanied by a leap in P/E ratios
that fueled a 17 percent annual increase in the  Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  from the second quarter of 1982 through the
first quarter of 2000.  Ultimately, the good times led to rampant speculation,
especially in new tech stocks, and to the 2000-2002 collapse.
But the speculative investment climate simply shifted from
stocks to commodities, foreign currencies, emerging-market
equities and debt,  hedge funds , private equity and, especially,
housing.  The second stage of the  bear market  we are now experiencing
was triggered by the collapse of subprime mortgages and the
 financial crisis  it spawned, starting in early 2007.  The long bull market that began in the 1980s was followed
by two bouts of financial deflation, in 2000-2002 and 2007-2009,
as stocks declined by more than 40 percent for only the fourth
and fifth times since 1900. A financial inflation/deflation
cycle has also occurred among financial institutions that
greatly leveraged their balance sheets over the past three
decades and are now being forced to raise capital, while
reducing risk and leverage.  Tangible-Asset Deflation: The big increase in commercial
real estate in the 1980s was spurred by beneficial tax-law
changes and by financial deregulation that allowed savings-and-
loan banks to make commercial-real-estate loans. Deflation set
in later that decade due to overbuilding and the changes in the
1986 tax law. Bad loans mounted and the S&L industry went bust.
Today, commercial real estate is recovering, though inflation
and deflation have occurred repeatedly in that sector since
World War II.  The staggering house-price deflation of the past six years
is the first since the early 1900s. There is still more downside
despite some recent evidence of a recovery. Excess inventories
are the enemy of prices, and there are about 1.7 million excess
housing units in the U.S., over and above normal inventory
working levels. Before the housing collapse started, housing
starts and completions averaged about 1.5 million per year. So
the excess remains huge.  Falling Currency  Currency Deflation: Relative currency values are influenced
by monetary and fiscal policies, CPI inflation/deflation rates,
interest rates, economic growth, import and export markets, an
economy’s attractiveness as a haven, capital and financial
investment opportunities, the carry trade, military strength or
weakness, and government actions. In recent years,  Japan ,  South
Korea , China and  Switzerland  have all tried to support their
exports and limit imports by preventing their currencies from
strengthening.  After several years of weakness, the dollar has revived in
recent months. I see it as the haven in a weak, and possibly
recessionary, global economy.  Standard Inflation/Deflation: This is the most familiar
type, caused by a substantial gap between aggregated supply and
demand.  While this prevailed in the 1970s, it is highly unlikely
today as commodity prices collapse, high unemployment persists
and deleveraging suppresses private demand. In a world where
surpluses of goods and services dominate, the Fed rightly
worries about falling producer and consumer prices, not the
reverse.  Inflation by Fiat: I developed this concept in 1977 to
encompass all the ways by which Congress, the president and
regulators raise prices.  Increases in the  minimum wage  are a case in point. So, too,
are higher tariffs on imports. Agricultural-price supports keep
prices close to equilibrium. Federal contractors are required to
pay union wages, which usually exceed nonunion pay.
Environmental-protection regulations may improve the climate,
but they boost costs that tend to be passed on in higher prices.
Wage increases for government workers must be paid in higher
taxes sooner or later.  In the late 1970s, I calculated that inflation by fiat
added two percentage points to the CPI. There was some deflation
by fiat in the 1980s and ’90s, namely the reform of federal-
welfare programs requiring recipients to work or be in job
training.  Political Decisions  Now, in reaction to the financial collapse, Wall Street’s
misdeeds and the worst recession since the 1930s, substantial
increases in  government regulation  and involvement in the
economy are certain -- and therefore, so is more inflation by
fiat.  So, five of the seven deflation types are in place today.
In addition to worker dismissals, cuts in wages and hours worked
are being used to reduce labor costs (wage-price deflation).
Commodity prices continue the decline that started in early 2011
(commodity deflation). Excess inventories threaten even lower
housing prices (tangible-asset deflation). Stocks are overdue
for a decline when investors realize that weakness in global
economies can’t be offset by huge injections of liquidity by
central banks (financial-asset deflation). And the dollar
appears to be reasserting its traditional role as a haven
(foreign-currency deflation).  If persistent excess supply and weak demand for goods and
services cause the CPI and the producer-price index to fall 2
percent to 3 percent per year, as I expect, those who predict
inflation will be in for a big shock.  (A. Gary Shilling is president of A. Gary Shilling & Co.
and the author of “The Age of Deleveraging: Investment
Strategies for a Decade of Slow Growth and Deflation.” The
opinions expressed are his own. This is the fifth in a five-part
series. Read  Part 1 ,  Part 2 ,  Part 3  and  Part 4 .)  To contact the writer of this article:
A. Gary Shilling at  insight@agaryshilling.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  