-- The Most Revealing Moment of Obama’s Israel Trip
-- B y   J e f f r e y   G o l d b e r g
-- 2013-03-26T18:02:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/the-most-revealing-moment-of-obama-s-israel-trip.html
Operation Desert Schmooze,
President  Barack Obama ’s two-day charm offensive in Jerusalem,
achieved its central goal of convincing Israelis that the U.S.
president, to invert an ancient stereotype, doesn’t have horns.  Obama’s achievements were partly symbolic. Merely by
smiling and saying comforting words about Israel’s inherent
legitimacy, he went a long way toward neutralizing a Republican
propaganda campaign that was meant to convince Israelis (and
American Jews) that he was the bastard offspring of  Jimmy Carter 
and Haman. Jonathan Tobin, formerly an acidic critic of Obama’s
approach to Israel,  wrote  on Commentary magazine’s website that
many of the president’s “Jewish and Democratic defenders have
been to some extent vindicated and his critics chastened, if not
silenced.”  The achievements were also substantive. Obama somehow
convinced the Israeli prime minister,  Benjamin Netanyahu , a man
who does not spend his days looking for people to apologize to,
that he should call the obstreperous Turkish prime minister,
 Recep Tayyip Erdogan , to say how sorry he was for the loss of
Turkish lives during the notorious flotilla conflict off the
Mediterranean coast in 2010. The apology is helping clear a path
for cooperation between the two countries on other matters,
including the fallout from the coming disintegration of  Syria .  Iranian Threat  Netanyahu and Obama also discussed  Iran , in an effort to
coordinate their timelines for action against its nuclear
program. The Israelis appear to have convinced Obama, if he
needed further convincing, that an Iranian nuclear weapon posed
an existential threat to Israel. Obama succeeded in convincing
the Israeli defense establishment that he means business when he
promises to use military force against the Iranian nuclear
project if sanctions and diplomacy fail.  In his speech last week before some 2,000 Israeli college
students,  Obama said , “I’ve made the position of the  United
States of America  clear. Iran must not get a nuclear weapon.
This is not a danger that can be contained, and as president,
I’ve said all options are on the table for achieving our
objectives. America will do what we must to prevent a nuclear-
armed Iran.”  This speech was a rhetorical success, a tactical triumph
and the highlight, most everyone agreed, of the trip. His
expression of American support for Israel was so uncompromising,
and so deeply felt, that when he pivoted, mid-speech, to ask
Israelis to consider the suffering of Palestinians, he received
a standing ovation. The president learned, belatedly, the joy of
speaking directly to Israelis, rather than addressing them
through the filter of the American Jewish establishment.  But the moment of real clarity -- the moment when it became
clear to me that it is exceedingly difficult to quell Israeli
anxieties about the president, about the U.S. and about the
physical safety of their country -- came a day later, at Yad
Vashem, the Holocaust memorial on the outskirts of  Jerusalem ,
during a quiet ceremony before an audience that consisted
mainly, it seemed, of White House pool reporters (me among
them).  Obama spoke first, expressing a formulation that Israelis
were waiting to hear. In 2009, in his Cairo speech to the Muslim
world, Obama  suggested  that the Holocaust explained Israel’s
existence and justified it. This notion is anathema to
mainstream Israeli thinking. Israel exists because it is the
historic home of the Jewish people, not because  Europe  decided
to solve its Jewish problem on the backs of Arabs. At Yad
Vashem, Obama repudiated this portion of his Cairo speech.  He
said : “Here, on your ancient land, let it be said for all the
world to hear: The state of  Israel  does not exist because of the
Holocaust. But with the survival of a strong Jewish state of
Israel, such a Holocaust will never happen again.” The prime
minister, standing by his side, seemed pleased.  ‘Too Late’  Then came the former chief rabbi of Israel, Yisrael Meir Lau, who did not seem at ease. Lau, who is the chairman of Yad
Vashem, was one of the youngest survivors of the Buchenwald
concentration camp. The Germans killed his mother and father,
and most of the rest of his family. Lau, looking directly at
Obama, said: “I want to use this occasion as an opportunity for
me to thank you. On April 11, 1945, in the concentration camp of
Buchenwald, which you visited, the American troops broke into
the camp” and liberated the Jewish prisoners, he said. He told
of a Jewish army chaplain who walked through the barracks,
crying out in Yiddish, “Jews, you are free!”  Lau went on to describe an encounter he recently had in
 Seattle  with one of his liberators, an American named Leo Hymas.
“He welcomed me with tears in his eyes; he knew that I was a
Holocaust survivor, a child from Buchenwald. He shook my hand
and said, ‘Rabbi, I was one of the liberators of Buchenwald. I
asked permission to meet with you before I give my soul to the
lord of the universe. I am asking you for forgiveness for being
late. We came too late.’”  Lau looked at Obama. “Yesterday, Mr. President, you
promised us that we are not alone. Don’t be too late.”  I heard subsequently that a number of senior Israeli
military officers were upset with Lau for equating the helpless
Jews of Buchenwald to the heavily armed Jews of Israel. Lau’s
plea to Obama veered from the Zionist script. Israel was created
so that Jews would never again have to rely on strangers for
their lives. But Lau was recognizing something true about this
moment in Israel’s history: There are some challenges that are
too big for Israel to handle on its own. The threat of a nuclear
Iran may be one of those challenges.  More than ever before, the defense of Israel appears to be
in the hands of an outsider, a man who never imagined he would
be charged with such a responsibility.  ( Jeffrey Goldberg  is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
national correspondent for the Atlantic. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the author of this column:
Jeffrey Goldberg at  goldberg.atlantic@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 