-- ECB’s Reinesch Sees Signs of Stabilization in Euro-Area Economy
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2013-03-26T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/ecb-s-reinesch-sees-signs-of-stabilization-in-euro-area-economy.html
European Central Bank Governing
Council member Gaston Reinesch said the euro-area economy should
recover later this year, aided by a pickup in global trade and
loose monetary policy.  “Available data continue to indicate that economic
weakness in the euro area has extended into the beginning of the
year, while confirming signs of stabilization in a number of
indicators, though weak,” Reinesch said today in the quarterly
report of the Luxembourg Central Bank, which he heads. “There
should be a gradual recovery of activity later in 2013,
supported by a strengthening of global demand and an
accommodative stance of monetary policy.”  The ECB has kept its benchmark  interest rate  at a record
low of 0.75 percent since July and revised down its economic
outlook on March 7. It now predicts the 17-nation economy will
shrink 0.5 percent this year and grow 1 percent in 2014.  “Downside risks remain on these perspectives,” Reinesch
said, echoing ECB President  Mario Draghi ’s March 7 policy
statement. “They relate to the possibility of weaker-than-
expected domestic demand and exports and to slow or insufficient
implementation of structural reforms in the euro area. These
factors have the potential to damp the improvement in confidence
and thereby delay the recovery.”  Inflationary pressures “should remain contained,” he said
in the report. “Inflation expectations for the euro area remain
firmly anchored in line with our aim of maintaining inflation
rates below, but close to, 2 percent over the medium term.”  The ECB predicts annual consumer-price gains will average
1.6 percent this year and 1.3 percent in 2014.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Brussels via 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  