-- Egypt Stocks Drop to 3-Month Low as Authority Announces NSGB Tax
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2013-03-26T14:08:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/egypt-stocks-drop-to-3-month-low-as-authority-announces-nsgb-tax.html
Egypt ’s  benchmark stock index 
tumbled to the lowest level in more than three months after the
country’s tax authority said it will impose a levy on profit
made on the buyout of  Societe Generale SA (GLE) ’s local unit.  The  EGX 30 Index (EGX30)  slumped 2 percent to 5,129.09 at the close
in Cairo, the lowest level since Dec. 11, as all 30 stocks fell.
That brings the measure’s decline this year to 6.1 percent,
making it the world’s seventh-worst performer in the period,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Commercial
International Bank Egypt SAE (COMI) , the country’s biggest publicly
traded lender, fell to the weakest level since Aug. 30.  Egypt will impose a 10 percent tax on shareholders that
profited from selling stakes in National Societe Generale Bank
to  Qatar National Bank (QNBK)  SAQ over the past month, the authority
said in a letter released by the bourse today. The decision
exempts NSGB’s parent Societe Generale SA because of an
agreement with France that prevents double taxation.  The news “is affecting the entire market because of the
fact that this was announced after closing of the tender offer
and ambiguity on how it will be implemented,” said Wafik Dawood, director of institutional sales at Cairo-based Mega
Investments Securities. “Investors can’t be pleased with the
inconsistency and contradictions in the market’s regulation.”  QNB completed a monthlong offer to buy all NSGB shares
yesterday at 38.65 Egyptian pounds apiece, for a total 17.1
billion pounds ($2.5 billion). SocGen had owned 77.2 percent of
NSGB, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The levy on the NSGB deal comes amid negotiations with
 Orascom Construction  Industries for the payment of 14 billion
pounds in back taxes. The government claims the company’s sale
of its listed cement business in 2007 to  Lafarge SA (LG)  should have
been taxed. OCI disagreed.  Orascom Construction lost 2.8 percent, the most since March
14, to 233.18 pounds while Commercial International Bank
declined 1 percent to 30.89 pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  