-- Electoral Demographics Open Door on Immigration, Napolitano Says
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2013-03-26T14:09:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/electoral-demographics-open-door-on-immigration-napolitano-says.html
U.S. Homeland Security Secretary
 Janet Napolitano  said the time is right for major changes to the
country’s immigration system after shifting demographics played
a role in the outcome of the 2012 presidential election.  “Now is the time,” Napolitano told reporters at a
breakfast sponsored by the Christian Science Monitor. “I think
the election had consequences in that regard, as people looked
at the changing demographics of the  United States  and the
changing demographic of voters in the United States.”  Napolitano’s comments echo those of President  Barack Obama ,
who said yesterday he wants lawmakers to begin debate on
legislation when they return from recess next month and to be
able to sign it into law “as soon as possible.”  A group of Democratic and Republican lawmakers is working
to draft legislation designed to address the more than 11
million undocumented immigrants that reside in the U.S. The
group is set to unveil next month a draft proposal that would
bolster border security and workplace verification.  Hispanics accounted for 10 percent of voters in the 2012
presidential election. Obama won 71 percent of their votes, and
just 27 percent backed Republican nominee  Mitt Romney , who had
proposed “self-deportation” for undocumented immigrants. Since
then, a growing number of Republicans are publicly backing
giving legal status to undocumented immigrants.  Republican officials last week unveiled a post-election
review that called for the party to back “comprehensive
immigration reform” or see its appeal shrink.  “Whatever side you are on in the immigration debate,
there’s a recognition the system we have needs to be rebooted,”
Napolitano said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  