-- Emerging-Market Stocks Rise on U.S. Data as Mexico Climbs
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v   a n d   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-03-26T21:56:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/emerging-stocks-rise-as-south-korea-thailand-calls-offset-china.html
Emerging-market stocks rose for a
second day, led by  Mexico (MEXBOL) , amid better-than estimated American
economic reports. Brazilian equities rebounded from an eight-
month low as exporters followed commodities higher.  Mexico ’s IPC Index had the biggest rally since January 2012
as Fomento Economico Mexicano SAB surged 4.4 percent. Steelmaker
Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais SA jumped 4.5 percent,
pacing gains in  Brazil .  Kasikornbank Pcl (KBANK) , a Thai lender, rose
3.4 percent as Deutsche Bank AG advised buying the nation’s
shares. OTP Bank Nyrt.,  Hungary ’s largest lender, rose as the
central bank cut the benchmark rate to a record low.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  added 0.6 percent to
1,028.65 in  New York . Data showing U.S. durable-goods orders an
home prices rose more than forecast bolstered the outlook for
the world’s biggest economy. Cypriot Finance Minister Michael
Sarris sought to play down calls for the nation to exit the euro
after Cyprus mooted a new rescue plan.  “The  U.S. economy  is going to continue to grind along,”
said  Peter Sorrentino , a senior  fund manager  at Huntington Asset
Advisors in Cincinnati who helps oversee $14.7 billion. He spoke
in a phone interview. “That would argue for stronger import
demand, which may be helping out  emerging markets .”  Gauges of consumer companies rose the most among 10
industries in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index. The broader gauge
has lost 2.5 percent this year, compared with a 7 percent gain
in the  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  of developed-country stocks. The
developing-nations measure trades at 10.8 times  estimated  12-
month earnings, compared with the MSCI World’s multiple of 14.2,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Emerging ETF  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets  exchange-traded fund , the
ETF tracking developing-nation shares, added 1.4 percent to
$42.52. The Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets ETF
Volatility Index, a measure of options prices on the fund and
expectations of price swings, tumbled 9.8 percent to 16.86.  The IPC Index rallied 1.8 percent after U.S. data bolstered
the outlook for the Latin American nation’s biggest export
market. Fomento Economico Mexicano rose the most in a year.  Brazil’s Bovespa added 1.5 percent. Usiminas, as Usinas
Siderurgicas is known, gained the most since March 6. The
Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of commodities added 0.9 percent,
climbing for a third day.  The BUX Index added 0.8 percent as  OTP Bank (OTP)  jumped 2.2
percent in Budapest. The Magyar Nemzeti Bank cut its two-week
deposit rate to 5 percent today, matching the estimate of 25 of
29 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Turkey, Russia  Turkey ’s ISE National 100 index added 1.5 percent, as
Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS gained 2.4 percent.  Russian stocks fell 0.8 percent to the lowest since Dec. 4
as Cyprus’ bailout plan cast doubt on the safety of an estimated
$60 billion of loans and deposits in the island nation.  Thailand ’s  SET Index (SET)  climbed 1.3 percent, after tumbling
7.5 percent last week. Deutsche Bank said in a report dated
yesterday that recent declines in share prices are an
opportunity to add shares selectively. Morgan Stanley said in a
separate report yesterday that the recent slide is overdone.
Kasikornbank rose to the highest price since March 19.  Zhen Ding Technology Holding Ltd. (4958)  rose the  most  on the
emerging-markets gauge, adding 6.9 percent. The Taiwanese
circuit-board maker stands to benefit as a supplier to Apple
Inc. on speculation the next generation iPhone will be unveiled
soon, according to Fubon Securities Co.  Indian stocks  rose  for the first time in eight days. The
rupee weakened as Bank of America Merrill Lynch predicted a
record current-account deficit. The Shanghai Composite Index
lost 1.3 percent on concern official measures to rein in  home
prices  will hurt earnings.  The extra yield investors demand to own developing-nation
dollar debt over  U.S. Treasuries  rose one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 301, according to the JPMorgan Chase & Co.
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  