-- Templeton Shuns Corporates as Yield Spread Narrows
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-27T04:55:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/templeton-shuns-corporates-as-yield-spread-narrows-china-credit.html
Chinese corporate bond yields the
lowest in four months above the government’s, prompting the
local unit of Franklin Templeton Investment to avoid the debt.  “The credit spread may widen in the second quarter,” said
Diao Huiyu, head of fixed-income investment in Shanghai at
Franklin Templeton Sealand Fund Management Co., which oversees
about 17 billion  yuan  ($2.7 billion). “The outlook for China’s
economy still isn’t clear. I am a bit worried about the sharp
decline in the gap between government and corporate bond
yields.”  The  extra yield  investors demand to hold 10-year notes sold
by top-rated companies instead of sovereign debt shrank to 157
basis points on March 18, the least since Nov. 6, Chinabond
indexes show. In the U.S., similar-maturity notes from top-rated
corporate issuers yield 40 basis points more than Treasuries,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  China’s new Premier Li Keqiang said this month he will
focus on opening the economy to market forces and stripping
power from the government in a “self-imposed revolution,”
setting a 7.5 percent economic growth target through 2020 that
is slower than the 9.4 percent average in the past 10 years.  Disappointing February data prompted Bank of America
Merrill Lynch to lower its 2013 growth forecast to 8 percent
from 8.1 percent on March 20.  Industrial production  rose 9.9
percent in the first two months of 2013, the weakest start to a
year since 2009, while retail sales missed economists’
predictions to grow 12.3 percent. New local-currency  loans  fell
to 620 billion yuan in February from 1.07 trillion yuan in
January, the People’s Bank of China said.  Debt Costs  Many lenders have started to control the scale of loans for
real-estate development, the China Securities Journal reported
yesterday. The China Banking Regulatory Commission is drafting
guidelines on property lending, the newspaper cited an
unidentified person close to the regulator saying.  The  yield  on AAA-rated 10-year corporate bonds dropped 11
basis points this year to 5.18 percent yesterday, according to
Chinabond, the nation’s biggest debt clearing house. That on
similar-maturity government debt was unchanged at 3.57 percent.  The cost of insuring China’s debt against non-payment has
risen three basis points this year to 69 yesterday, the highest
since Feb. 5, according to data provider CMA, which is owned by
McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market.  Credit Risks  The new government will “probably focus on stability in
economic policy, and it’s not necessary for them to seek a
robust recovery,” said Franklin Templeton’s Diao. He said he is
cutting holdings of bonds rated AA or lower as worries about the
economy will have a bigger impact on lower-rated bonds.  The yield on three-year AA medium-term notes has jumped 15
basis points to 5.11 percent this month, widening the  spread 
over similar AAA securities to 57 basis points, the highest
since Jan. 16.  “We expect more credit events to surface this year, which
will force the market to re-evaluate the credit risks,” Bank of
America Merrill Lynch Hong Kong-based analysts Ethan Mou and Bin
Gao wrote in a March 25 note. The failure of local authorities
to prevent a March 18 convertible-note default by solar-panel
maker Suntech Power Holdings Co. was “an important signal of
the changing attitude of the government,” they said.  Government Backing  Government-backed companies such as Hebei Iron & Steel Co.
would also stand to lose from any reduced state support. The
yield on November 2016 bonds in China’s fourth-largest
steelmaker was 4.82 percent on March 26, compared with the 5.09
percent coupon offered at its 2011 sale, according to China
interbank prices.  The gap between corporate and government yields may see a
“small” increase in the second quarter as inflows of
speculative capital wane, said Chen Jianheng, a bond analyst in
Beijing at China International Capital Corp., the country’s
biggest investment bank.  “Since the end of last year, there has been some hot money
flowing into China because of the optimistic sentiment about
China’s recovery,” said Chen. “However, data in the first two
months shows growth momentum in the economy isn’t as strong as
expected, so the inflows will probably decline.”  ‘Buying Opportunities’  Diao’s Franklin Eternal Credit Bond Fund has handed
investors a return of 1.9 percent so far this year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The fund’s two biggest holdings at
the end of the fourth quarter were Xugong Group Construction
Machinery Co.’s 5.09 percent note due in November 2016 and
Shangyu Communications Investment Corp.’s 6.7 percent bond due
in September 2019, according to its quarterly  report .  Franklin
Resources Inc. (BEN)  is based in San Mateo, California.  While credit spreads will widen, Diao said, the correction
will give investors the chance to buy corporate bonds because
inflation will remain controlled this year.  “Inflation won’t be a big concern in the coming two to
three months,” he said. “Even though it may accelerate in the
third and fourth quarters, it probably won’t rise above the
market’s expectation. So any rise in corporate bond yields won’t
be big and will actually present buying opportunities.”  Yuan positions at local lenders accumulated from sales of
foreign exchange to the central bank, an indication of cross-
border capital flows into China, rose to a record 684 billion
yuan in January, official data showed on March 5. The yuan was
unchanged at 6.2110 per dollar yesterday.  Consumer Prices  The seven-day repurchase rate, a gauge of interbank funding
availability, has averaged 3.17 percent so far this quarter, the
lowest since 2010, according to the National Interbank Funding
Center. It jumped 12 basis points yesterday to 3.10 percent on
concern over monetary tightening.  Consumer prices  climbed  3.2 percent in February from a year
earlier, the highest in 10 months, from 2 percent in January,
the statistics bureau said on March 9. Inflation may slow to 2
percent again in March, the central bank’s academic adviser Song
Guoqing was cited as saying by the Shanghai Securities News
yesterday. The government set a target of 3.5 percent this year,
compared with 4 percent in 2012.  “The credit spread will widen because the economy is
showing signs of a slowdown,” said Shi Lei, head of fixed-
income research at Ping An Securities Co., a unit of China’s
second-biggest insurance company. “But the slowdown is
temporary,” he said, adding that “the widening of the credit
spread will probably last about three months.”  Shi forecast the economy will expand 8.2 percent in the
second quarter and grow as slowly as 7.8 percent in the first
three months of this year.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Judy Chen in Shanghai at 
 xchen45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  