-- Hess Says Singer Paying Board to Liquidate Oil Company
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2013-03-26T13:18:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/hess-says-singer-paying-board-to-liquidate-oil-company.html
Hess Corp. (HES) , the New York-based  oil
company , said shareholder  Paul Singer ’s Elliott Management Corp.
is proposing to pay its board nominees fees to liquidate the
company.  “Under this highly unusual scheme, Elliott would control
its directors by potentially paying them millions in cash to
effectively dismantle Hess,” Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer John Hess said in a letter to shareholders today. Hess
is fighting Elliott’s proposal to replace five of the company’s
13 board members at a meeting scheduled for May 16.  Elliott, the second-largest Hess shareholder, has said the
company should sell assets and bring in new  board members  after
years of “unrelenting underperformance.” Hess has rejected
Elliott’s nominees, proposed its own slate of six new board
members and announcing plans to exit certain businesses as it
transforms into an exploration and production company.  Under an agreement with its slate, Elliott will make a one-
time $50,000 cash payment to each candidate nominated to the
Hess board, according to a March 20 filing with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission. The New York-based hedge
fund would make additional payments if Hess outperforms peers
for three years, according to the document.  Elliot Sloane, a spokesman for the fund, had no immediate
comment on the Hess letter. Elliott on March 6 denied plans to
liquidate the company and accused Hess of “scare tactics.”  Elliott would pay the nominees bonuses of $10,000 for each
1 percent that Hess shares exceed the average total return of
peers in the first three years, if any of the candidates makes
it onto the board. Members who are appointed or elected to the
board will be eligible for another $20,000 for each 1 percent of
outperformance.  Hess released its letter to shareholders before regular
trading began on U.S. markets. The shares rose 0.2 percent to
$70.44 yesterday in  New York . They have gained 33 percent this
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  