-- Messina Putting Obama Campaign Forces to Work in States
-- B y   J u l i e   B y k o w i c z
-- 2013-03-26T21:26:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/messina-putting-obama-campaign-forces-to-work-in-states.html
President Barack Obama’s reelection
campaign -- a political powerhouse with 20 million e-mail
addresses and 4 million volunteers -- is setting its sights on
state-level battles such as gay marriage legislation in
 Illinois .  Jim Messina , Obama’s 2012 campaign manager and chairman of
its successor, a nonprofit called Organizing for Action, said
today at a Bloomberg Government lunch that the three-month-old
national group will take its case for the president’s
legislative agenda out of  Washington .  Today, the group announced it would offer its support for
publicly funded elections in  New York . OFA, which has 744,000
members in the state, plans an informational conference call for
them tomorrow night. The group “brings unstoppable momentum”
to the legislative effort, Karen Scharff, executive director of
Citizen Action of New York, which advocates for public
financing, said in a statement.  Messina told  Bloomberg News  that OFA already has begun
working on other state issues. For example, he said, the group
has asked supporters to push for legislation in Illinois that
would permit same-sex couples to wed and is beginning to help
defend New York Governor  Andrew Cuomo ’s gun-legislation package.  “The truth is, if we really are a grassroots organization
run by our supporters, you have to do that stuff,” he said.
“If OFA is to succeed in a way I think it can, it absolutely
has to be locally driven. You will see us do a whole bunch of
stuff at a local level that will seem counterintuitive to the
national message.”  Leveraging Issues  Local issues can be leveraged federally, Messina said,
drawing that lesson from recent organized labor fights in
Wisconsin and Ohio. He said the Obama campaign’s assistance in
those issues netted it more voter registrations and more
volunteers for the November 2012 election.  That happened ‘because they were involved in issues they
were passionate about,’’ he said.  At the same time, OFA will keep its hand in Obama
initiatives such as federal-level  gun control  and immigration
policy changes.  On March 28, OFA, Mayors Against Illegal Guns and other
gun-control advocates will participate in a “National Day of
Action” to show support for a U.S. Senate bill that expands
background checks for gun purchases.  Gun Events  Rallies, petition drives and press conferences will take
place in Arizona,  Indiana ,  Maine , Nevada,  North Carolina  and
Pennsylvania, according to a statement by Mayors Against Illegal
Guns. That group was co-founded by New York City Mayor  Michael Bloomberg , who is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg LP,
the parent company of Bloomberg News.  The partnership on March 28 is typical of how OFA will
operate on national issues, Messina said. While it’s a
nonpartisan organization, it will join with politically active
groups such as Bloomberg’s, he said. The mayor on March 24
announced a $12 million television ad campaign for gun control
targeting senators in certain states -- including the ones where
OFA actions are taking place on March 28.  As a nonprofit, OFA can accept unlimited amounts of money
without naming its donors publicly. Messina previously said the
group will voluntarily disclose its contributors every three
months. The group won’t accept checks from corporations or
lobbyists, he said.  The group also won’t spend money to back or attack specific
candidates, he said. That work will be left to others --
including another client of Messina’s, the  Democratic National
Committee .  Messina said his new consulting firm, the Messina Group,
will consult for the DNC. The Messina Group also is courting
corporate clients, and he has been giving paid speeches,
domestically and internationally. His work for OFA is unpaid, he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Bykowicz in Washington at 
 jbykowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  