-- Euro Reaches 4-Month Low as Cyprus Reignites Regional Concern
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-03-26T21:06:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/euro-strengthens-versus-dollar-as-ecb-s-coeure-pledges-support.html
The euro reached a four-month low
versus the dollar as investors assessed whether Cyprus’s bailout
signaled deeper private-sector losses in bank restucturings.  The 17-nation currency briefly extended losses as  Europe 
considers a plan for deposits of more than 100,000 euros
($128,760) to face losses in a bank restructuring, Reuters
reported, citing a spokeswoman for European Commissioner  Michel
Barnier . Japan’s currency fell against most of its 16 major
peers after central-bank Governor Haruhiko pledged to buy more
 government bonds  to accelerate an end to deflation.  “The major concern relating to Cyprus is will there be a
fallout in banks in other periphery countries related to deposit
flight?” Brian Daingerfield, a currency strategist at Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s RBS Securities unit in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut , said in a telephone interview. “As different
comments come out on this topic, the euro seems to be
whipsawing.”  The euro rose 0.1 percent to $1.2861 at 5 p.m. in  New York ,
after touching the weakest level since Nov. 22. Europe’s shared
currency climbed 0.4 percent to 121.48 yen.  Japan ’s currency
weakened 0.3 percent to 94.44 per dollar.  The shared currency traded below its 200-day moving average
for a second day.  Forint Rallies  Hungary’s forint gained against the euro by the most since
January after the central bank cuts its benchmark  interest-rate 
by 25 basis points to 5 percent, raising the threshold for more
reductions. The currency strengthened 0.6 percent to 304.26 to
the euro.  India ’s currency fell as much as 0.4 percent to the
greenback, the most since March 19, amid concern the government
won’t be able to rein in a record current-account deficit as
inflows into equities slow. The rupee declined 0.3 percent to
54.3650 per dollar.  South Korea ’s won extended gains from yesterday against the
U.S. currency.  “Exporters are repatriating their overseas income at the
end of the month, supporting the currency,” said Hong Seok Chan, an analyst at Daishin Economic Research Institute in
 Seoul . “Still, concerns about Cyprus are keeping investors from
aggressive dollar sales.”  Won Strength  The won appreciated 0.5 percent to 1,105.58 per dollar,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It touched 1,104.35
earlier, the strongest level since March 14.  Kuroda, who took up his post last week, reiterated today
his pledge to do “whatever it takes” to end more than a decade
of deflation in Japan, saying that expectations for rising
prices would be positive for the world’s third-largest economy.  He told lawmakers that the BOJ will discuss purchasing more
bonds with longer maturities. Policy specifics will be
considered at the central bank board meeting, Kuroda said.  The BOJ will set a new bond-buying target, which the
central bank will discuss at its April 3-4 meeting, the Nikkei
newspaper reported without attribution.  “We’ve heard the rhetoric, we know they plan on getting
more aggressive, and now it’s time for the  Bank of Japan (8301)  to act
on that,” said RBS Securities’ Daingerfield.  Technical Considerations  The greenback’s advance versus the yen may stall, Citigroup
Inc. said, citing declines in its relative strength index.  The U.S. currency’s 14-day RSI against its Japanese
counterpart was 50.4 today, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That’s near the neckline of 50 in a so-called head-
and-shoulders chart formation, and a drop below this level may
indicate a pause in the U.S. currency’s rally, Citigroup
foreign-exchange strategist  Osamu Takashima  wrote today in a
note to clients.  ECB executive board member Benoit Coeure said that Jeroen Dijsselbloem, who heads the group of euro-area finance
ministers, wasn’t correct in suggesting yesterday that the
restructuring of the Cypriot banking system would serve as a
model for other countries.  “The experience of Cyprus isn’t a model for the rest of
the  euro zone ,” Coeure said today on Europe 1 radio. “All
countries have different problems -- economic problems, problems
of unemployment -- but no country has the same concentration of
problems as Cyprus.”  Swaps Data  Credit-default swaps tied to Spanish bank Banco Santander
SA jumped 16.6 basis points to 306.7 basis points yesterday, the
biggest increase since Feb. 26, according to prices compiled by
Bloomberg. Contracts linked to lender BNP Paribas SA rose 12
basis points to 168.6 basis points.  Credit swaps protecting against a borrower’s default
typically fall as investors’ perceptions of creditworthiness
rise and increase as they deteriorate. The contracts pay the
buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations,
less the value of the defaulted debt.  “The market clearly is still worried about the comments
yesterday on the Cyprus situation setting a precedent for other
countries,”  Adam Cole , head of Group of 10 currency strategy in
 London  at Royal Bank of Canada, said in a telephone interview.
“What it’s doing is reopening some of the tail risk that the
 European Central Bank  has done such a good job taking off.”  The euro fell 1.7 percent in the past month, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes which track 10 developed-
nation currencies. The yen weakened 2 percent, the biggest
decline, while the dollar gained 0.7 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  