-- EverBank Joins JPMorgan as Mortgage-Bond Sales Near 2012 Total
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2013-03-26T19:59:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/everbank-joins-jpmorgan-as-mortgage-bond-sales-near-2012-total.html
EverBank Financial Corp. (EVER)  sold
securities tied to $307 million of new U.S. home loans without
government backing, a day after a deal by  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,
as issuance in the so-called non-agency market accelerates.  The transaction by EverBank included $207.6 million of top-
rated securities with 2.5 percent coupons that priced at 100.6
cents on the dollar, said a person familiar with the offering,
who asked not to be identified because they weren’t authorized.
The bonds are backed mainly by 30-year fixed-rate mortgages,
according to a report today by Moody’s Investors Service.  Non-agency issuance so far this year is now tied to almost
$3.2 billion of new loans, compared with $3.5 billion in all of
2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Investors have
paid too much in many of the deals, sometimes accepting lower
yields than available on government-backed bonds while buying
notes with more volatile prepayments, said Scott Simon, Pacific
Investment Management Co.’s mortgage-bond head. Fannie Mae’s 30-
year, 2.5 percent securities trade at less than 99 cents on the
dollar, Bloomberg data show.  “If a meaningful amount were attempted to be originated
this way, the yields would be massively higher,” said Simon,
whose Newport Beach, California-based firm manages the world’s
largest bond fund.  EverBank, which is based in Jacksonville,  Florida , offered
“unambiguous” contractual protections to investors against
misrepresented loans, according to Moody’s. The ratings firm
said in a March 22  report  that the top grades granted by rivals
to portions of the deal from New York-based JPMorgan weren’t
appropriate because the covenants could prevent repurchases of
bad loans.  Rising Issuance  Issuance is rising after the size of mortgages that
government-supported Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac can finance fell
and their bond-guarantee fees increased as policy makers seek to
scale back their roles, while investors flock to assets with
potentially higher returns as the Federal Reserve suppresses
yields on notes with less default risk.  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and  Redwood Trust Inc. (RWT)  had been the
only issuers since the market revived in 2010. Sales peaked at
$1.2 trillion in both 2005 and 2006 before collapsing as prices
tumbled amid soaring foreclosures and  plunging  real-estate
values, sparking a global financial crisis in 2008.  JPMorgan’s sale yesterday included $326.3 million of top-
rated securities with 2.5 percent coupons that priced at about
101.7 cents on the dollar, said a person familiar with that
offering who declined to be identified because they weren’t
authorized to speak about the transaction.  Those bonds were backed by a mix of fixed- and adjustable-
rate mortgages with varying lengths, according to a report last
week by Fitch Ratings, which gave them AAA ratings.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  