-- Evergrande 2012 Underlying Profit Falls 28% on Property Curbs
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-26T08:54:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/evergrande-2012-underlying-profit-falls-28-on-property-curbs.html
Evergrande Real Estate Group Ltd. (3333) ,
 China ’s biggest developer by sales volume, posted a 28 percent
decline in 2012 underlying profit after the developer cut prices
as the government implemented property curbs.  Profit excluding valuation gains or losses fell to 6.2
billion  yuan  ($1 billion) from 8.6 billion yuan, the company
said in a statement to the Hong Kong stock exchange today. That
compares with the 7.7 billion yuan median estimate of five
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Revenue jumped 5.4 percent to
65.3 billion yuan.  Evergrande’s earnings declined as home prices were hit the
most in China’s less affluent third-tier cities where the
Guangzhou, southern China-based company focused its expansion
last year. Prices in the eastern city of Wenzhou dropped 11
percent last month from a year ago, leading declines among 70
cities the government tracks.  “The developer had to cut prices to meet sales target last
year,” Alan Jin, a Hong Kong-based property analyst at Mizuho
Securities Asia Ltd., who has a neutral rating on the stock,
said before today’s earnings. “While  home prices  recovered in
major cities, the property markets of smaller cities which it
focuses are still lagging behind.”  Evergrande sold a total of 15.5 million square meters (167
square feet) of properties during 2012, up 27 percent from a
year earlier, the most among Chinese developers, it said today.  New Projects  The company started marketing 58 new projects in 52 second
and third tier cities last year, it said.  “The group will will maintain strong sales efforts from
the beginning of the year, set more proactive internal sales
targets monthly, and review and adjust specific sales policy
according to market conditions at any time to ensure strong
growth in annual contracted sales,” Chairman Hui Ka Yan said in
the statement today.  The developer set the sales target of 100 billion yuan for
the year, compared with 92.3 billion yuan in 2012, it said.  The company said in January that it plans to sell 1 billion
shares at HK$4.35 each, and will use the proceeds to repay debt
and for working capital.  China imposed its toughest curbs in a year on March 1,
ordering the central bank to raise down-payment requirements and
 interest rates  for second mortgages in cities with excessive
price gains. It also enforced a property sales tax and told
local governments with the biggest price pressures to tighten
home-purchase limits.  Evergrande shares were unchanged at HK$3.49 at the close in
 Hong Kong . It has lost 18 percent this year.  The developer will not pay a final dividend.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tomoko Yamazaki at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net  