-- Texas Wins Stay in Whooping Cranes Case From U.S. Court
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-03-26T22:40:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/texas-wins-stay-in-whooping-cranes-case-from-u-s-court.html
An appeals court temporarily lifted
a judge’s order blocking  Texas  from issuing permits for a river
system that supplies cities and industrial users in a dispute
over protecting an endangered flock of whooping cranes.  The U.S. Court of Appeals in  New Orleans , which issued
today’s order at the request of Texas Attorney General  Greg Abbott , also said it would expedite the state’s appeal of a
lower court’s March 11 ruling that forbids the approval of new
permits for the Guadalupe, San Antonio or Blanco rivers.  “Today’s order halts the lower court’s flawed decision --
and stops Texas from being coerced into a costly federal
permitting regime,” Lauren Bean, a spokeswoman for Abbott, said
in an e-mail. “Equally important, the emergency stay is a huge
win for the farmers, ranchers, and communities along these Texas
rivers who would have been irreparably harmed if the district
court’s order had taken effect.”  U.S. District Judge Janis Graham Jack in  Corpus Christi 
said in her March 11 ruling that state regulators violated
federal wildlife protections by failing to monitor how much
water cities and industrial users took from the rivers during
droughts.  According to evidence at a 2011 trial, so much water was
siphoned from the rivers during the 2009 drought that 23 birds,
or 8.5 percent of the Texas whooping crane flock, died because
insufficient freshwater flowed into the coastal marsh where the
birds spend winter.  Believed Extinct  The five-foot-tall whooping crane was believed to be
extinct until a flock of 15 survivors was found on an isolated
stretch of Texas coastal marsh in the 1940s. There are about 500
whooping cranes alive today, according to trial evidence, with a
flock of about 250 birds that migrates between Texas and  Canada .
That flock is the only self-sustaining wild population.  Abbott asked the appeals court to put Jack’s March 11 order
on hold after Jack refused to delay blocking new river permits.  The whooping cranes share a coastline with the world’s
largest concentration of refineries and petrochemical plants,
which stretches from their refuge eastward to the Louisiana
border.  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW) ’s Seadrift plant, one of the largest
water users on the river system, sits across the bay from the
refuge.  The appellate court scheduled oral argument in the case for
August.  “That greatly accelerates the timetable for getting this
heard,” James Blackburn Jr., a lawyer for the coalition of
coastal tourism and environmental interests who sued to protect
the cranes, said today in a telephone interview. “For us that’s
good news.”  The case is Aransas Project v. Shaw, 2:10-cv-00075, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of Texas (Corpus Christi) and
13-40317,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the 5th Circuit (New
Orleans).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at  aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  