-- FIFA Dismisses Costa Rica’s Protest Over Snowy Loss to U.S.
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-03-26T21:03:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/fifa-dismisses-costa-rica-s-protest-over-snowy-1-0-loss-to-u-s-.html
International soccer’s governing
body dismissed a protest filed by Costa Rican officials after
their national team lost 1-0 to the U.S. in  World Cup  qualifying
on a snow-covered  Colorado  field last week.  FIFA, soccer’s governing body,  announced today  on its
website that  Costa Rica ’s protest wasn’t filed properly and the
game’s result would stand. Costa Rica’s soccer federation said
after the March 22 contest that the weather jeopardized the
integrity of the game.  The group said today in a statement that it asking FIFA to
reconsider its decision. Conditions at the stadium prevented
Costa Rican soccer officials from filing the protest within the
two-hour timeframe expected by FIFA, according to the statement.  “We reviewed as best we could and compiled all the formal
documentation, images and videos possible and this took time,”
Jorge Hidalgo, the Costa Rican federation’s executive committee
vice president, said in the statement, translated from Spanish.  U.S. captain  Clint Dempsey  scored the only goal 16 minutes
into the first half at Dick’s Sporting Goods Park in Commerce
City, Colorado. Snow fell steadily throughout the game, with
groundskeepers shoveling the lines on the field during breaks in
the play. A yellow ball was used for visibility.  Today’s statement cited a clause in the 2014 FIFA World Cup
regulations manual that says protests regarding the state of the
field must be made “in writing to the referee before the start
of the match.” If the field becomes unplayable during the game,
the captain of the protesting team must immediately complain to
the referee in the presence of the opposing captain, according
to the rulebook.  E-Mail Protest  Following either of those protests, the complaint then
needs to be confirmed in writing to FIFA “no later than two
hours after the match,” according to the regulations. Costa
Rican soccer officials failed to follow these rules, lodging
their protest in an e-mail and fax two days after the game, FIFA
said.  The U.S., No. 33 in FIFA’s global rankings, is second in
its World Cup qualifying group with three points through two
games. Costa Rica, ranked No. 53, is last in the six-team group
with one point.  The U.S. plays Mexico tonight at Estadio Azteca in Mexico
City, where the home team is 68-1-6 in World Cup qualifying.  -- With assistance from Bill Faries in Miami. Editors: Michael
Sillup, Larry Siddons.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  