-- First Gulf Gains Most in Year Bank Loan Outlook: Abu Dhabi Mover
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2013-03-26T11:00:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/first-gulf-gains-most-in-year-bank-loan-outlook-abu-dhabi-mover.html
First Gulf Bank PJSC (FGB)  rose the most
in more than a year on bets the Abu Dhabi-based lender will
report improved first-quarter earnings as credit growth picks up
amid an economic recovery.  Shares of the bank, which is controlled by Abu Dhabi’s
ruling family, increased 4.6 percent, the largest advance since
March 2012, to 13.75 dirhams at the close in Abu Dhabi. The
stock was the biggest gainer and most traded  by value  on the
benchmark  ADX General Index (ADSMI) , which added 0.5 percent. First
Gulf, which was the second-best performing bank on the bourse
last year, has increased 19 percent this quarter.  United Arab Emirates lenders are benefiting from an
economic recovery in the second-largest Arab economy, with  Abu
Dhabi ’s government restarts stalled projects as it pursues
investments to diversify the economy away from oil. First Gulf
will probably post the U.A.E.’s fastest loan growth in 2013,
helping to boost profit, according to EFG-Hermes Holding SAE.  “First Gulf Bank offers strong upside driven by double-
digit growth in loans, high net interest margins” and a strong
dividend yield and earnings outlook, said Jaap Meijer, a
director of equity research at Dubai-based Arqaam Capital Ltd.  First Gulf, whose 2012 profit grew 12 percent, may this
year post a  7 percent gain  in net income, according to the  mean
estimate  of 10 analysts on Bloomberg. The lender, which is
scheduled to report results on April 23, has a  12-month dividend
yield  of 6.1 percent, compared with 5.3 percent for the  ADX
Banks Index (ADBF) , data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The stock’s rally in 2013 compares with a gain of 15
percent for the ADX General Index.  Fourteen analysts  recommend
investors buy the shares of First Gulf, while two say hold the
stock and one says sell, according  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  “Banks in general are doing great,” said Saad al Chalabi,
senior institutional trader at Al Ramz Securities in Abu Dhabi.
“First Gulf Bank in particular has always been the favorite for
foreign funds.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  