-- Florida Gulf Coast Coach Reprising Startup Success at Tournament
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-03-27T04:00:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/florida-gulf-coast-coach-reprising-startup-success-at-tournament.html
Andy Enfield couldn’t get
basketball out of his blood, even after he helped build a
health-care contract-management software company.  That’s part of the reason Enfield -- with an MBA, a
fashion-model wife and the career scoring record at  Johns
Hopkins University  -- is making history as coach of Florida Gulf
Coast University, the biggest surprise of the National
Collegiate Athletic Association men’s basketball tournament.  The Eagles, from  Fort Myers , Florida, are the first No. 15
seed to reach the regional semifinals, after upsets of No. 2
seed Georgetown and No. 7 San Diego State. Featuring a running,
dunking style of play, they next play No. 3 Florida as 13-point
underdogs March 29 in Arlington,  Texas , six years after joining
college basketball’s top level.  “As a Division I basketball coach you need to be the CEO
of a program,” Enfield told reporters after his team’s 81-71
defeat of San Diego State three nights ago in Philadelphia.  His players surrounded the 43-year-old coach in the locker
room, chanting “An-dy, An-dy,” and dousing him with water.  Enfield is no stranger to success or startups.  He scored 2,025 points at  Johns Hopkins  from 1988 to 1991,
one of his  15 school records , and set a Division III mark with a
92.5 career free throw percentage. He paid for an MBA at the
 University of Maryland , he said, by running a lacrosse camp.  Enfield also worked in the  National Basketball Association 
as a shooting consultant and coach, becoming an assistant with
the  Boston Celtics  and  Milwaukee Bucks . He said he moved to New
York, launched a website called onnetshooting.com, and continued
work with NBA teams and players.  Software Startup  In 2000, he became one of the first employees of
 TractManager , which was founded by his friend Tom Rizk and now
works with more than 6,000 health-care facilities, according to
a company news release. He was the senior vice president of
finance and ran the sales team, Rizk said.  “Since I had my MBA in finance, I wanted to try to build a
startup company and see where it went,” Enfield said. “Through
Tom’s leadership and the other great people I worked with, we
were able to make it successful and eventually profitable.”  It was also at that time that Enfield met Amanda Marcum, a
model who’s been on the cover of magazines such as Maxim, Vogue
and Elle. Their first date was at a 2003 National Invitation
Tournament game in New York, a week after driving to an NCAA
game in  Boston  when a mutual friend introduced them.  “I pulled up to the Starbucks in  Manhattan  to pick them
up, and as soon as I saw Amanda get in my car, I knew it would
be a good trip,” he said.  Value Climbs  The couple married in 2004 and two years later moved to
Tallahassee,  Florida , after Enfield sold part of his investment
in TractManager, now owned by Arsenal Capital Partners, a New
York-based private equity company. Rizk, TractManager’s chief
executive, said the company’s value is “much higher” than $100
million without being specific.  “One of the responsibilities that we all have is that we
have some type of positive impact on the youth in America and
coaching was Andy’s way of doing it,” Rizk said in a telephone
interview. “When he had some success with us, it probably gave
him the financial freedom to explore going back and follow a
dream that never left his blood.”  Enfield was a Florida State assistant from 2006 through
2011, with NCAA tournament berths the final three years. He
moved to Florida Gulf Coast before the 2011-12 season and led
the Eagles to a school-record 15 wins and the championship game
of the Atlantic Sun Conference tournament.  Early Losses  This season, Florida Gulf Coast had early losses to Duke,
Virginia Commonwealth and Iowa State, all NCAA tournament teams.
It beat Miami, the No. 2 seed in the East region, 63-51, on Nov.
13.  “After a few bad losses this year I wished I was still on
 Wall Street , but now I’m happy I’m here,” said Enfield, who has
an annual coaching salary of $157,500.  The Eagles beat Mercer in the conference title game for the
NCAA berth, then beat Georgetown 78-68 in the South region on
March 22.  Two days later, Enfield’s team outscored San Diego State
47-36 in the second half to make history. The previous six teams
to win as No. 15 seeds since 1985 lost their next contest. The
previous lowest-ranked schools to make the final 16 were 14s --
Cleveland State in 1986 and Chattanooga in 1997.  The run has brought unprecedented exposure to a school of
12,655 students that opened in 1997. Since the start of the NCAA
tournament, it has been mentioned in 661 television programs,
597 print stories and 9,210 Internet articles, Joyce Julius &
Associates, an  Ann Arbor , Michigan-based sports advertising
evaluation company, said.  ‘Build Awareness’  “We’re looking forward to helping the school grow from a
marketing standpoint and build an awareness across the country
that FGCU is a hidden gem down in Southwest Florida,” Enfield
said. “That was my goal this year.”  The winner of the Florida Gulf Coast-Florida game faces
Kansas or  Michigan  for the South region title, and one bettor at
the Las Vegas Hotel’s Super Book placed a $10 wager at 1,000-
to-1 odds that FGCU would reach the Final Four. The Eagles were
underdogs by 12 1/2 points against Georgetown and 7 1/2 against
San Diego State.  Rizk said Enfield’s business skills have translated well
into building a basketball program at a school not known by most
people.  “When you have a startup you have to convince talented
people to come join the company and then mentor them and make
them believe you can be successful,” Rizk said. “That takes
talent. And that’s the same talent he’s using to get his team to
believe in what they’re doing. You can see it, there’s not a
doubt in their mind that they think they can compete.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  