-- Fonterra Raises Payout Forecast as Drought Boosts Milk Prices
-- B y   C h r i s   B o u r k e   a n d   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 2013-03-26T20:46:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/fonterra-raises-payout-forecast-as-drought-boosts-milk-prices.html
Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd. (FCG) ,
the world’s largest dairy exporter, raised its forecast cash
payout to farmers as New Zealand drought conditions curbed
supply and global milk powder prices surged.  Fonterra expects to pay its 10,500 farmer shareholders
NZ$5.80 ($4.87) a kilogram of milk solids in the 2012-13 season,
compared to a December forecast of NZ$5.50, according to a
statement today. While it reported a 33 percent rise in first-
half net income to NZ$459 million, the Auckland-based company
said that drought was likely to weigh on second-half earnings.  Whole-milk  powder  climbed to a record last week as New
Zealand’s most widespread drought in at least 30 years curbs
supply. Fonterra forecasts that milk collection will finish in
line with the previous season after favorable weather resulted
in record dairy production volumes in the first half.  “The drought in the third quarter has been more severe and
lasted longer than anyone might have predicted,” Chairman  John Wilson  said in the statement. World dairy price growth was
“reflecting strong demand at a time when global supply is
constrained,” he said.  The  dry  conditions could cost the economy NZ$2 billion as
economic growth slows, the government estimates. Central bank
Governor Graeme Wheeler said March 14 the drought trimmed as
much as 0.3 percentage point off the  Reserve Bank  of New
Zealand’s previous projections for growth in the first half.  Fonterra was also seeing “intensified” competition in its
consumer markets in the second half, especially in  Australia ,
and saw signs of slowing demand in  Asia , Chief Executive Officer
Theo Spierings said in the statement.  Whole milk powder climbed to an all-time high of $5,313 a
metric ton on March 19, according to Fonterra’s  GlobalDairyTrade 
website, after New Zealand’s entire  North Island  was declared in
drought. The previous record was $4,958 on March 1, 2011.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Bourke in Wellington at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net ;
Phoebe Sedgman in Melbourne at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Bourke at   cbourke4@bloomberg.net  