-- Ford CEO Says He’s Concerned About Effect of Weakening Yen
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 2013-03-26T20:18:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/ford-ceo-mulally-says-he-s-concerned-about-weaker-japanese-yen.html
Ford Motor Co. (F)  Chief Executive
Officer  Alan Mulally  said he’s concerned that the depreciation
of the yen is bolstering the competitiveness of Japanese
carmakers.  “The most important thing that most countries around the
world believe in is letting the markets determine the
currency,” Mulally said today from Bangkok in reference to the
Japanese currency, during an interview on Bloomberg Television’s
“First Up with  Susan Li .” “That’s just so important to all of
us in the international trading system.”  The yen has fallen about 15 percent against the dollar
since mid-November when Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, then running
for office, began a campaign to talk down the value of Japan’s
currency to revive the nation’s export-led economy. That has
bolstered shares of  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ,  Nissan Motor (7201)  Co. and
Honda Motor Co.  The yen’s slide increases profit for Japanese automakers
when they sell vehicles outside their home market, helping them
to cut prices, boost advertising and improve products. The
American Automotive Policy Council, backed by Ford, General
Motors Co. and Chrysler Group LLC, estimates that the currency
advantage equates to about $5,700 per vehicle.  Ford rose 0.2 percent to $13.31 at the close in  New York .
The  shares  have gained 2.8 percent this year, trailing the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index’s 9.6 percent climb.  Europe Plans  In Europe, the company is scaling back production to meet
“real demand” amid economic contraction in the region, Mulally
said. Ford forecast in January that it will lose about $2
billion in Europe this year, up from $1.75 billion in 2011 and
its previous estimate of about $1.5 billion.  Ford is cutting jobs in Europe and adding plants in  Asia  to
curb losses in both regions while relying on earnings in  North
America . The company earned a record $8.34 pretax profit and
10.4 percent operating margin in its North American operations
last year on strong sales of its F-Series pickups.  Calling  China  a “tremendous market,” Mulally said Ford is
among the fastest-growing brands in that nation, where it’s
focused on producing and selling its family of brands. Ford is
listening to consumers to modify the Lincoln models it will
introduce next year in China, the world’s largest auto market,
he said.  Consumer Input  “We really used the consumer feedback in our design
process,” Mulally said. “We’re going to continue to
incorporate the consumer’s input into the vehicle.”  Asia will probably generate about 40 percent of Ford’s
sales by the end of the decade, with the Americas and Europe
accounting for the rest, he told reporters.  Ford’s wholesale deliveries in China surged 46 percent to
105,209 through the first two months of this year, according to
the Dearborn, Michigan-based company’s  website . The China
Association of Automobile Manufacturers forecasts total vehicle
sales this year will surpass 20 million units for the first
time, driven by urbanization and rising incomes.  Mulally said he was “really disappointed” after an
 advertising agency  in  India  drew up mock ads for the Ford Figo,
including one that depicted former Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  with three women who were tied up. Still, the CEO
said the incident is unlikely to affect Ford sales in the
country because the company didn’t use or approve the ads.  “This was done by our advertising agency in India for a
completely separate advertising competition that they were
having,” he said. “We are going to review all our processes
and make sure that this absolutely does not happen again because
this is not consistent at all with our Ford values.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  