-- Forint Gains Second Day as Yields Fall Before Rate Decision
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-03-26T09:30:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/forint-gains-second-day-as-yields-fall-before-rate-decision.html
The forint gained for the second
day and  Hungary ’s three-year bond yields fell to a two-week low
as the central bank looked set to cut rates to a record at its
first monetary policy meeting chaired by a new president today.  The currency of Hungary, the European Union’s most indebted
eastern country, has weakened 3.5 percent since Prime Minister
Viktor Orban appointed former economy minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy 
as central bank president on March 1. The Magyar Nemzeti Bank
will probably trim its two-week deposit rate by 25 basis points
to 5 percent, following a cumulative 1.75 percentage points in
reductions in the past seven months, a Bloomberg  survey  showed.  “Today’s rate decision will reveal how far Hungarian
central bank governor Matolcsy and prime minister  Viktor Orban 
are ready to go regarding the forint weakness,” Carolin Hecht,
a Frankfurt-based strategist at Commerzbank AG, wrote in an e-
mailed report today. “The central bank’s dovish undertone is
likely to keep the downside in euro-forint limited.”  The forint appreciated 0.1 percent to 305.83 per euro by
9:46 a.m. in Budapest. Yields on the government’s benchmark
three-year bonds basis slid three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 5.307 percent, the lowest since March 8.  The 25 basis-point cut is seen by 25 out of 29 analysts in
the Bloomberg poll. Three economists projected a 50 basis-point
easing and one saw no change.  “Along with the market consensus we expect the easing
cycle to continue with another 25 basis point cut, despite the
euro-forint rate trading above 300,” Gergely Tardos and Levente
Papa, Budapest-based analysts at OTP Bank Nyrt., Hungary’s
largest lender, wrote in an e-mailed report today.  Forward rate agreements used to wager on  interest rates  in
three months fell one basis point to 4.4 percent today, matching
the record low reached on March 20. The FRA contracts traded 70
basis points below the Budapest Interbank Offered Rate.  Matolcsy won’t talk to reporters, discontinuing the
tradition of holding a press conference after the rates decision
while still planning to publish written statements, spokesman
Andras Simon said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  