-- FSA Final Proposal to Gamble on Low Capital for New Banks
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2013-03-26T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/fsa-final-proposal-to-gamble-on-low-capital-for-new-banks.html
The U.K.’s  Financial Services
Authority  plans to cut in half both the time it takes startup
banks to get approval and the amount of capital they must hold,
in a proposal due today.  The Prudential Regulation Authority, which takes over bank
supervision from the FSA next week, will let new lenders operate
with a capital ratio as low as 4.5 percent, the minimum allowed
under global standards, in an effort to revive banking
competition. The measures, the last from the FSA, will also
include a plan to cut the time new banks have to wait for
approval from one year to as little as six months, a person
familiar with the plans said.  “We support the idea that banks have to be safe and there
has to be a rigorous process to make sure banks aren’t going to
fail,”  Paul Stephenson , a spokesman for the British Bankers’
Association, said by telephone. “We hope that in the new
consultation there will be concrete action which says how the
FSA can speed up the bureaucratic process.”  Britain’s four biggest banks --  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  Lloyds
Banking Group Plc (LLOY) ,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc -- account for almost three-quarters of the market for
checking accounts, according to the  Office of Fair Trading , and
new entrants, such as Metro Bank Plc, have struggled to make
inroads into the mortgage market. Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  has pledged the government would make it quicker
and easier for new players to get approval.  Disadvantaged Banks  “We’ve tended to have capital and liquidity add-ons for
new-entrant banks so they’ve been disadvantaged,”  Adair Turner ,
chairman of the FSA, told U.K. lawmakers in  London  last month.
“We are shifting that, to where a new entrant bank will be able
to run on the minimum legal requirement” under rules set by the
 Basel Committee on Banking Supervision .  The measures -- known as Basel III and scheduled to be
fully implemented globally by 2019 -- will set the minimum core
capital for banks at 4.5 percent of their assets, weighted for
risk. So-called systemically important banks must maintain
capital ratios of between 8.5 percent and 10 percent under the
Basel rules.  The FSA will be disbanded on April 1 and be replaced by the
PRA and the Financial Conduct Authority, which will oversee
markets and prosecute financial crime. The FCA also has a
mandate to improve competition in the banking industry.  Turner has said new lenders would have to hit the 7 percent
capital mark before being permitted to pay dividends.  He warned that politicians must be prepared to let banks
fail as a result of the lower barriers to entry.  ‘Actual Failure’  “This is a significant difference and reflects a PRA
philosophy that the actual failure of a bank, provided it
happens in a smooth fashion and with rapid pay out of insured
depositors, is not necessarily a regulatory failure,” Turner
told lawmakers. “It’s very important for parliament to accept
that. If you remove barriers to entry you’ve got to have entry
and exit, as they do in the U.S.”  Banks that have acceptable payment systems, anti-money-
laundering controls and staff can expect their waiting time for
regulatory approval to be cut to about six months, said the
person familiar with the plans, who declined to be named because
they aren’t public yet.  While the government and regulator may want to make it
easier to set up a bank, actually attracting new entrants may be
difficult if recent deals are a guide, said  Ian Gordon , a
banking analyst at  Investec Plc (INVP)  in London. Both Lloyds and RBS
have struggled to find buyers for the branches they’ve been
ordered to sell to boost competition.  RBS is still trying to find a buyer for its Williams &
Glyn’s branches, while customer-owned Co-Operative Bank Plc is,
after eight months, still struggling to complete its purchase of
Lloyds’s branches.  “The most credible new entrant in banking is potentially
going to bail,” Gordon said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in Brussels at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  