-- Galaxy Entertainment Profit Doubles as Macau Visitors Rise
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-26T08:56:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/galaxy-entertainment-profit-doubles-as-visitors-to-macau-rise.html
Galaxy Entertainment Group Ltd. (27) ,
the casino operator founded by billionaire Lui Che-Woo, reported
annual profit that more than doubled as the number of Chinese
gamblers to  Macau  rose.  Net income  in 2012 rose to HK$7.4 billion ($953 million)
from HK$3 billion a year earlier, the company said in a
statement to the stock exchange today. That compares with the
HK$7.46 billion average estimate of 25 analysts compiled by
Bloomberg.  Galaxy, which runs the Galaxy Macau and StarWorld Hotel
casinos in the former Portuguese colony, benefited as the
world’s largest gambling hub attracted more Chinese tourists
last year. Companies such as Galaxy,  Sands China Ltd. (1928)  and  Melco
Crown Entertainment Ltd. (MPEL)  plan to expand in Macau’s Cotai area, a
zone equivalent to Asia’s Las Vegas Strip, as casino revenue
rose to a record 304 billion patacas ($38 billion) in 2012.  The company, based in  Hong Kong , said in December it would
invest as much as HK$50 billion to expand a Macau resort as it
seeks to draw more Chinese visitors to its properties. Macau is
the only place in  China  where casino gambling is legal.  The casino operator has received approval from the Macau
government to add 50 tables between its Galaxy Macau and
Starworld properties, Deputy Chairman Francis Lui said at a
press conference today.  Shares of Galaxy fell 0.8 percent to close at HK$33.05. The
benchmark  Hang Seng Index  gained 0.3 percent.  Adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, or Ebitda, surged to HK$9.8 billion from HK$5.7
billion in 2011. Revenue rose 38 percent to HK$56.7 billion.  Still Macau’s gaming growth is slowing. Gross gambling
revenue rose at about 9 percent in the first two months of this
year, lagging behind the consensus 13 percent growth estimate
for 2013, Jefferies Hong Kong Ltd. analysts led by Leon Liao
wrote in a note this month. High-stakes bettors from the
mainland are curbing spending after a slowdown in the world’s
second-largest economy last year, according to Liao.  Lui said he hasn’t seen any evidence of a China government
policy crackdown on the VIP junket operators who offer credit to
gamblers from the mainland.  Macau’s government said last month it will “strengthen”
its licensing system for casino junket operators and work with
 law enforcement  to tackle gambling-related crimes.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  