-- Germans Leery of Merkel Promise on Deposit Security: Poll
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2013-03-26T13:25:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/germans-leery-of-merkel-promise-on-deposit-security-poll.html
Cypriot bank-account holders’
efforts to protect their deposits during  bailout  talks fed
concerns among Germans that their own savings may be at risk,
according to a poll.  Some 67 percent of Germans “greatly” or “somewhat” fear
for their savings after an initial rescue plan for Cyprus
included an unprecedented tap of bank deposits, a Forsa GmbH
poll for RTL Television and Stern magazine showed. The country’s
lawmakers unanimously rejected the proposal, part of a move to
avert Cyprus’s insolvency.  Chancellor Angela Merkel  had insisted that Cyprus’s banking
sector “must contribute to the sustainability” of the nation’s
debt.’’ While she has been called the “Teflon Chancellor, able
to deflect problems and criticisms without showing any scars,”
the Cypriot crisis hurt Merkel’s image as the “Iron
Chancellor,” Stern said today in a commentary on the poll.  European Union-wide deposit guarantees, forged in 2008
after Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed, contain a caveat
highlighted by the Cyprus crisis that’s left savers from Nicosia
to Nuremberg pondering the legal pledges. The guarantees are
“only as good as the solvency” of the state, German Finance
Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble said on March 19.  “Nobody has to be worried” about  Germany ’s solvency,
Schaeuble said. The initial Cyprus proposal was a “singular”
step in the history of the debt crisis, forced upon the
Eurogroup to drum up a sufficient contribution from the island’s
banks, Schaeuble said. After Lehman, Germany augmented a pledge
of the private sector to guarantee bank deposits.  Merkel’s spokesman, Steffen Seibert, also said on March 19
that German deposits are safe.  Assurances Questioned  The poll showed that 54 percent are skeptical about
Schaeuble’s assurances and don’t believe their savings are safe.
Some 41 percent said they consider German deposits to be
“secure.”  The Forsa poll of 2,504 people showed Merkel’s Christian
Democrats gaining a point to 41 percent in the week, a sign that
respondents supported her policy toward Cyprus before the March
24 summit that clinched a new rescue plan for the island. The
survey was conducted from March 18 to March 22.  Dutch Finance Minister and Eurogroup head Jeroen Dijsselbloem said imposing losses on depositors and bondholders
can be part of the region’s bailout toolkit after such measures
were taken to avoid Cyprus’s default.  “We are looking for a way to place risks where they are
taken,” Dijsselbloem said yesterday on Dutch television program
“Pauw & Witteman.” His comments echo those of Merkel, who
lauded a new Cyprus rescue plan that taps deposits larger than
100,000 euros ($129,000) at two banks, saying it targets those
“who caused these faulty developments.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  