-- Germany Loses Allure as Biggest Danish Fund Slams Financial Tax
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2013-03-26T12:36:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/germany-loses-allure-as-biggest-danish-fund-slams-financial-tax.html
Denmark’s biggest pension fund said
plans by 11 European nations including  Germany  to introduce a
financial transactions tax will make debt sold by the region’s
largest economy less appealing.  ATP, which oversees $140 billion, has limited its
government bond portfolio to Danish and German debt and in 2011
renegotiated contracts to avoid having to accept French bonds as
collateral for funding.  Europe ’s plan for a financial levy means
Danish bonds will become the most attractive, said Anders Svennesen, deputy chief investment officer at Hilleroed,
Denmark-based ATP.  “A financial transactions tax could potentially make
Danish bonds a good, cheaper proxy to bonds in Germany,” he
said in a March 22 phone interview. The levy “will seriously
hurt liquidity and make it much more costly to trade even German
 government bonds . Not only will the tax apply when buying or
selling the underlying assets, but hedging the currency exposure
along with it will also trigger a tax payment.”  The European Union on Feb. 14 unveiled its proposal for a
0.1 percent tax for stock and bond trades and 0.01 percent on
derivatives trades with ties to participating countries. The
measure exempts primary offerings of government bonds. The EU
estimates the move could raise 30 billion euros ($40 billion) to
35 billion euros a year. To become law, the proposal has to be
approved by the countries that agree to participate, which
comprise 11 nations including Germany, Spain and  France .  Spreads Widen  Denmark has chosen not to join. The country, which has
pegged the krone to the common currency, emerged last year as
haven from the region’s debt crisis as it enjoys a stable
 exchange rate  against the euro without being burdened by bailout
costs. The AAA rated nation has a public debt load that’s less
than half the euro area average.  ATP, which had a return of 9.9 percent last year, held 430
billion kroner ($74 billion) in government bonds, according to
its 2012 annual report. That portfolio was split 50-50 between
German and Danish government bonds, according to Svennesen.  “For non-FTT compliant investors looking to buy European
exposure Danish assets will become relatively more attractive,”
said Svennesen.  The Nordic country’s 10-year note yields about 20 basis
points more than their German equivalent, compared with as much
as 31 basis points less in November last year, according to
Bloomberg generic yields.  Denmark’s deposit rate, which was cut to an unprecedented
minus 0.2 percent in July, remains below zero after the central
bank raised rates by 0.1 percentage point in January. The
benchmark lending rate is 0.3 percent, or 0.45 percentage point
lower than the  European Central Bank ’s main rate.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  