-- Gisele’s $7 Flip-Flops Trigger Grendene Surge: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e   a n d   D e n y s e   G o d o y
-- 2013-03-26T21:18:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/gisele-s-7-flip-flops-trigger-grendene-surge-corporate-brazil.html
Grendene SA (GRND3) , the maker of footwear
endorsed by supermodel  Gisele Bundchen , is posting the biggest
rally among global shoemakers as demand for its $7 flip-flops
withstands Brazil’s economic slump.  The company’s shares have more than doubled in the past 12
months to 21.20 reais, compared with an average 23 percent
return among 24 shoemakers including Brazilian high-heel maker
Arezzo & Co.,  Skechers U.S.A. Inc (SKX)  and  Puma SE. (PUM)  Grendene’s total
returns  topped  those of all Brazilian small cap stocks and the
benchmark Bovespa index, which dropped 17 percent during the
period.  While the gains have pushed Grendene’s  valuation  to a five-
year high, it still is cheaper than the industry norm, a signal
to Hermes  Emerging Markets  and  Banco do Brasil SA (BBAS3)  that the rally
isn’t over. Grendene, based in Sobral, Brazil, trades at 14.9
times earnings, compared with the average ratio of 24.9 for
global peers and 20.5 among 81 Brazilian  consumer goods  makers.  “The shares still offer good upside relative to other
consumer names in Brazil,” Samir Patel, who helps oversee about
$900 million in assets including Grendene stocks at Hermes
Emerging Markets in  London , said in an e-mailed response to
questions on March 14.  Inexpensive Shoes  Grendene’s focus on lower-cost shoes helped drive a 27
percent increase in  sales  to a record 1.88 billion reais ($934
million) in 2012 as growth in  Latin America ’s biggest economy
slowed to 0.9 percent, the weakest in three years, according to
Patel. For Grendene bears like Renato Prado, an analyst at Sao
Paulo-based brokerage Fator SA, the economic rebound expected
for this year won’t boost revenue further because sales held up
so well during the slowdown.  “Brazilians buy an average of four pairs of shoes every
year, and we have no reason to expect this amount to increase
soon,” Prado said in a phone interview. He  cut  the stock to
sell from hold on March 21, saying the share price reflects most
of the company’s competitive advantages after the rally.  The 6.3 billion-real company, which gets 78 percent of
gross revenue from Brazil, expanded its market share in the
country to about 20 percent last year from about 14 percent in
2011, according to company filings. It became Brazil’s biggest
shoemaker by market value in January 2012, surpassing Arezzo,
whose products are priced on average from 90 reais to 960 reais,
and  Alpargatas SA, (ALPA4)  the maker of rubber flip-flops Havaianas,
which are sold at prices starting 18 reais at stores in Sao
Paulo.  Grendene reduced the average price of its shoes to 13.21
reais in 2012 from 13.85 reais in 2011, helping it boost sales
as stagnant economic growth curtailed spending on more expensive
consumer goods.  Gisele’s Sandals  The shoemaker manufactures plastic flip flops and sandals
with lines endorsed by Gisele, Colombian singer Shakira and
Brazilian former professional tennis player Gustavo Kuerten. The
company said in a March presentation that production has grown
at a 6.3 percent pace since 2002, above the industry’s 2.5
percent average advance.  “Grendene’s strategy is every consumer product
enterprise’s dream: it sells its products to the lower middle
class and to high-income clients as well,” Rodolfo Amstalden,
an analyst at equity research firm Empiricus, said by phone from
Sao Paulo. The firm recommends Grendene as a top pick among
Brazilian consumer stocks.  Grendene’s press office did not reply to phone calls and e-
mailed requests for comment. A press official at Arezzo declined
to comment.  Rising Demand  Hiring Gisele in 2001 as its main celebrity endorser was
key to reaching higher-income consumers, according to Amstalden.
After supporting the company’s main female flip-flop brand,
called Ipanema, the Brazilian supermodel, who also endorses
products from Oral-B Laboratories whitening strips to cable TV
and is married to New England Patriots quarterback  Tom Brady ,
introduced her own line of Grendene plastic sandals.  Grendene, which made 185 million pairs of shoes last year,
is spending 60 million reais to build a factory that it plans to
open in the second half of 2013 to meet rising demand, according
to a Feb. 28 statement accompanying its quarterly earnings.  Amstalden projects 12 percent annual gains in Grendene’s
sales until 2015. The reduction in payroll taxes the government
announced in April and limited increases in the costs of the
materials Grendene uses to make its shoes should also help
improve profits, he said.  Shoe Exports  A stronger real, which has gained 1.7 percent this year and
is up 68 percent over the past decade, could hurt Grendene by
making its products less competitive against foreign-made shoes,
according to Patel.  Footwear exports from  Brazil   fell  16 percent in dollar
terms last year, according to the country’s shoe industry
association. Grendene’s share grew to 40 percent of volume, the
company said in its fourth quarter earnings release.  The shoemaker is focusing on sales of its higher priced
items, such as the Melissa line, in its international expansion,
according to Thiago Gramari, an analyst at BB Investimentos,
Banco do Brasil’s investment banking unit.  As revenue rose, Grendene boosted its dividends to a record
293.5 million reais last year. The shoemaker said on Feb. 28
that dividends should increase further in 2013 even as it cuts
the percentage of profit allocated to payouts.  “That increase should be read as a reflection of the good
moment Grendene is living in now and management’s optimistic
vision of the near future,” Amstalden said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net ;
Denyse Godoy in  Sao Paulo  at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  