-- Governors Ask Obama to Weigh Climate Impact of Coal Ports
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2013-03-26T15:53:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/governors-ask-obama-to-weigh-climate-impact-of-coal-ports.html
President  Barack Obama ’s
administration should weigh the climate-change impact of burning
coal in Asia when considering whether to approve Pacific coal-
export terminals, two Western governors said.  In a letter to the White House Council of Environmental
Quality, the Democratic governors, John Kitzhaber of Oregon and
and Jay Inslee of Washington, said the administration must
expand its review of the projects and consider the carbon
dioxide that would be released when the coal is burned for
power. Collectively, three proposed terminals, which the Army
Corps of Engineers is reviewing, would result in the export of
up to 100 million tons of coal a year, they said.  “We believe the federal government must examine the true
costs of long-term commitments to supply coal from federal lands
for energy production, whether that production occurs
domestically or in Asia,” the governors wrote in a letter
yesterday to Nancy Sutley, the head of that White House office.
The climate impact of these decisions “dwarf those of almost
any other action the federal government could take in the
foreseeable future.”  The letter from the top executives of the two states where
at least four facilities are planned underscores the growing
pressure on Obama over the federal permitting of projects.
Environmentalists complain that while the president has pledged
to combat climate change, his administration has greenlighted
coal mining on federal lands, which will lead to a jump in
carbon-dioxide emissions.  Industry Opposition  Business groups such as the National Association of
Manufacturers and companies such as  Peabody Energy Corp. (BTU)  say
trying to factor in the impact of climate change under the
 National Environmental Policy Act  could prompt delays and
lawsuits, hindering needed projects.  “Such a requirement could be particularly damaging to the
Northwest, where trade and exports are vital to the economy and
support good family-wage jobs,” Lauri Hennessey, a spokeswoman
for the pro-port Seattle-based Alliance for Northwest Jobs &
Exports, said in a statement in response to the governors’
letter.  The Senate passed a non-binding amendment to the budget
last week that would prohibit the CEQ from adopting guidance for
all agencies on how they should weigh the climate impacts of
federal projects. That guidance has been stalled at the White
House since 2010.  Republican Lawmaker  “It is expected that CEQ will require agencies to consider
the greenhouse-gas emissions produced by exports after those
exports leave the shores of the United States,” Republican
Senator John Barrasso of Wyoming, the amendment’s sponsor, said
in a statement.  The impact of that type of analysis would be greatest for
coal, which emits the most carbon dioxide of any fossil fuel
when burned for energy.  The port projects include one from Ambre Energy Ltd. to
build a coal-export  facility  at the  Port of Morrow  in Oregon and
a Peabody terminal in Bellingham, Washington. Under existing
rules, officials weighing approval would consider whether ships
in the port would foul the water or the trains carrying the coal
in would generate air pollution with coal dust.  Under the guidance under consideration, the White House
would require consideration of both the increase in greenhouse
gases and a project’s vulnerability to flooding, drought or
other extreme weather that might result from global warming,
according to an initial proposal it issued in 2010.  While that guidance hasn’t been issued yet, the governors
are saying the Army Corps must consider that impact now.  “These steps are needed for the U.S. to make sound
decisions as the international demand for the coal resources in
the U.S. continues to grow, and to ensure that we do not simply
pass these tough issues on to future generations,” Kitzhaber
and Inslee wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  