-- Grain-Shipping Rates End Longest Rally Since ’03 as Demand Slows
-- B y   A l a r i c   N i g h t i n g a l e
-- 2013-03-26T15:03:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/grain-shipping-rates-end-longest-rally-since-03-as-demand-slows.html
Rates for Panamax ships carrying
grains ended their longest rally in a decade amid speculation
demand temporarily declined before holidays starting at the end
of this week.  Earnings for the vessels, which also carry coal, slid 0.5
percent to $9,632 a day, according to the  Baltic Exchange  in
London today. Rates rallied every day from Feb. 6 to yesterday,
the longest advance since 2003. The Baltic Dry Index, a wider
measure of commodity-shipping prices, also fell, as did three of
the four vessel types in the gauge.  Traders in the U.S.,  Europe ,  Latin America  and elsewhere in
the world break for Easter in the next several days. The rally
will resume after the holidays because of rising Chinese demand
for grain and soy crops, as well as port delays in Latin
America, said Alex Gray, chief executive officer of Clarkson
Securities Ltd., a unit of the world’s largest shipbroker.  “The pressure seems a little bit off and we’ve seen some
small but noticeable drops in what charterers are willing to
pay,” said Gray, whose company handles freight and iron ore
swaps. “Holidays loom and the boot is on the other foot.”  Capesizes, the largest vessels within the exchange’s daily
assessments, declined 1.8 percent to $4,894 a day. The vessels
normally carry more than 150,000 metric tons of cargo.
Supramaxes, hauling about a third that, fell 0.4 percent to
$10,217. Handysizes, the smallest ships tracked, advanced 0.5
percent to $8,082, their 24th straight gain.  There is still a “fundamental oversupply” of Panamaxes
and the rally will be temporary, Gray said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaric Nightingale in  London  at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  