-- Great Depression Hit One Country Hardest of All
-- B y   J o e   M a r t i n
-- 2013-03-26T15:32:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/great-depression-hit-one-country-hardest-of-all.html
The Great Depression devastated
many economies. But one country arguably suffered more than any
other:  Canada . By the time its economy reached bottom in 1932,
Canada had suffered a staggering decline of 34.8 percent in per-
capita gross domestic product. No other developed nation was as
hard-hit.  Canada was, and still is, a country dependent on trade. In
the 1920s, commodities -- such as wheat -- and lumber products,
including newsprint, were particularly important. In 1930, U.S.
President Herbert Hoover signed into law the Smoot-Hawley Tariff
Act, which raised duties on many imports to historically high
levels. This led to retaliatory tariffs and a drastic reduction
of trade around the world.  It was particularly harmful to Canada, America’s largest
trading partner, where  export  prices plummeted. The price of
lumber fell 32 percent from 1929 to 1932, and cattle prices
declined 63 percent. Smoot-Hawley sent major Canadian pulp and
paper companies into bankruptcy. Automakers (yes, there were
Canadian automakers) saw their exports collapse to 13,000
vehicles in 1931 from 102,000 in 1929. Manufacturing, in
general, declined more than 50 percent.  Unemployment reached an average of 32 percent in Canadian
cities. In Windsor, an automotive city across the river from
 Detroit , it reached 50 percent. In the Maritime provinces,
unemployment for ordinary laborers hit 60 percent.  Drought, Plagues  The human toll was greatest on the Canadian prairies, which
suffered not just from the trade wars but from drought,
deprivation and plagues of grasshoppers. By the time the
Depression was over, one in 12 people had left the region for
good, and much of the province of Saskatchewan had been reduced
to a wasteland ravaged by natural disasters. In tiny Minton,
most of the population of 890 depended on government relief and
charity; even the town’s chickens had to depend on relief feed.  Yet for all the suffering, Canadians never embraced the
kind of government intervention into the economy that the U.S.
did. A short-lived attempt by Prime Minister Richard Bedford
Bennett to copy the New Deal was ultimately struck down by the
Privy Council in  London , which was still Canada’s ultimate
Supreme Court. And despite the human devastation, Canadians
never turned in large numbers to “-isms” -- communism and
socialism -- preferring to keep their traditional political
parties. True, in 1935 the people of  Alberta  elected the Social
Credit Party, which had unusual (one might say radical) views on
monetary policy. But this was an exception.  Instead, Canadians muddled through the crisis with a
makeshift combination of private and public charity. Private
citizens in wealthier provinces recognized the plight of
Saskatchewan and sent hundreds of carloads of fruit, vegetables
and clothing westward. Bennett made a habit of sending money
from his personal fortune to those who wrote to him pleading for
help.  The government did construct relief camps for unemployed
men, providing some low-wage work and alleviating the threat of
large numbers of jobless in the cities. The state also used
force to suppress social discontent, most famously in 1935, when
the unemployed organized an “On-to-Ottawa Trek” from the west.
The movement got as far as Regina in Saskatchewan when it was
met by the Royal Canadian Mounted Police and local officers. The
resulting clash left one policeman dead; a trekker died of
wounds soon thereafter. The movement soon fizzled out.  In general, Canadians handled the Great Depression with a
minimum of drama. Life was tough in a cold country, and people
were accustomed to dealing with adversity. The economy picked up
as World War II set in, and the phlegmatic nature of Canadians
played no small part in the recovery.  As the Canadian historian James H. Gray observed, the Great
Depression “brought out more of the best than it did the worst
in people,” offering a reminder that “people, if left alone,
tend to work out their own problems for themselves; that expert
advice, particularly in economic matters, is most useful when it
is completely ignored.”  (Joe Martin is the director of Canadian business history at
the Rotman School of Management, University of Toronto, and is
president emeritus of Canada’s History Society. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this post:
Joe Martin at  jmartin@rotman.utoronto.ca   To contact the editor responsible for this post:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  