-- Greenwich Village Residents Appeal Dismissal of NYU Suit
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-03-26T19:20:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/greenwich-village-residents-appeal-dismissal-of-nyu-suit.html
Residents of a group of high-rise
buildings in  Manhattan ’s  Greenwich Village  appealed a judge’s
decision to dismiss their lawsuit seeking to block New York
University’s expansion plans.  Tenants of Washington Square Village sued the school in
August, seeking a court order stopping the university from
taking any action to eliminate a two-acre park in the center of
the cluster of buildings or to remove a commercial strip and
garden that form the park’s boundary.  New York State Supreme Court Justice Ellen M. Coin on March
14 denied their request for a preliminary injunction and
dismissed the suit, saying the plaintiffs first need to raise
the matter with the state’s Division of Housing and Community
Renewal. The tenants filed a notice of appeal today.  They intend to ask the appeals court whether the school can
“unilaterally eliminate a required ancillary service” when
case law shows that rent-stabilized tenants in the city have a
right to a garden or park and that landlords can’t eliminate
them without an administrative proceeding, according to the
notice.  The tenants said they will also ask whether they’re
entitled to an injunction to “preserve the status quo” while
they file complaints with the Division of Housing and Community
Renewal, and whether the lower court abused its discretion in
dismissing the case.  City Council  The  New York  City Council voted in July to let New York
University add 1.9 million square feet to the campus for
classrooms, a gym and housing in the face of objections from
residents and faculty who said it would change the character of
the neighborhood.  The $6 billion expansion is opposed by dozens of university
departments and divisions and has sparked lawsuits from
community residents and faculty members. Professors in the
university’s largest school passed a vote of no-confidence in
President John Sexton on March 16, saying he failed to consult
with them on the plan.  Sexton, 70, has been at the helm since 2002. While he has
raised the profile of the school, overseeing a record $3 billion
in fundraising, he has alienated faculty and angered locals with
the expansion plan. His proposal for construction in the
neighborhood, called NYU 2031, is opposed by 39 of the
university’s departments and divisions, according to NYU Faculty
Against the Sexton Plan, a teachers’ group.  The case is WSV Green Neighbors Inc. v.  New York
University , 155507/2012, State Supreme Court, New York County
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan at
   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  