-- Libya Says Four Foreign Christians Will Be Freed Jail
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   S t e p h e n
-- 2013-03-26T15:21:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/libya-says-four-foreign-christians-will-be-freed-jail.html
Libya  is to free four foreign
Christians arrested in the eastern city of Benghazi for
proselytizing after more than a month in jail, an official said.  The foreigners, a South African woman, a man with joint
American-Swedish nationality, an Egyptian and South Korean, will
be deported after their release, said Abdul Salam Barghathi,
commanding officer of the Office of Preventative Security, a
department of the  Defense Ministry , in an interview in Benghazi.  “To keep good diplomatic relations, they are going to be
allowed to go back to their countries,” he said, declining to
give a date. They were arrested because the distribution of
Christian literature is a “threat to homeland security,” he
said.  The Office of Preventative Security was created in April
2011 shortly after the revolution that ousted  Muammar Qaddafi 
began, and says its mission is to safeguard Libya and its
Islamic culture. Units patrol in jeeps with license-plates
bearing the words Preventative Security in Arabic and English.  While the group has authority across the country, it is
most active in Benghazi, Libya’s second largest city and home to
the nation’s Islamist militias, which seek to enforce a strict
interpretation of Sharia law in the region. Eastern Libya
accounts for 85 percent of the country’s oil production,
according to Abdeljalil Mayuf, a spokesman for Arabian Gulf Oil
Co., a state oil producer.  Egyptians Arrested  Foreign Christians in Benghazi, many of whom are Egyptian
guest workers, are from the Coptic church. Tripoli is home to
Catholic, Greek Orthodox, Coptic and Anglican churches,
frequented by diplomats and other foreign workers.  On March 1, the Office of Preventative Security announced
the arrest of 48 Egyptians, who were accused of evangelism and
one of whom died in custody, triggering protests by Christians
in Cairo. Islamists have gone further, setting fire to the
Egyptian Coptic church in Benghazi on March 14.  Speaking in his office, Barghathi said the four foreigners
were arrested for distributing Christian literature from a
warehouse, a crime under the statute inherited from the previous
regime. “We still work under Qaddafi law,” he said.  Barghathi said a consignment of 55,000 Christian books and
pamphlets were seized by his men, together with a photocopying
machine, which he said is now being used by his staff.  ‘Homeland Security’  “Some of these bibles were being given to children and the
poor. This is a question of  homeland security ,” he said.
“Libya is 100 percent Muslim, we don’t have Christians and
Jews, and nobody will accept any other religions.” He advised
Copts not to seek a new church in the city.  The burned-out church, close to the central gold market,
was deserted this week, the front door open. Inside, charred
timbers and furniture are scattered around together with rotting
fruit from the kitchen.  Abdul Mohammed, who lives nearby, said local Muslims saved
the priest after the raid by young Islamists, and that most
Muslims disapproved of the arson.  “We always had good relations with the Christians, they
are our friends,” he said.  Meged Labib, a 25-year-old Egyptian clothing seller in the
market agreed. He said the Christian community is increasingly
nervous as he pulled back his sleeve to reveal a small blue
cross tattooed on his wrist, proof of his religion.  “Our priest has gone to  Egypt ,” he said. “Now, we hold
services only in our homes.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Stephen in Tripoli at 
 cstephen9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  