-- Microsoft Sends EU Report Questioning Google Results
-- B y   A n t h o n y   A a r o n s
-- 2013-03-26T13:40:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/microsoft-sends-eu-report-questioning-google-results.html
A  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  consultant
questioned the impartiality of  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s search results as
European Union regulators are trying to end an antitrust probe
of the operator of the world’s  biggest search engine  that is
in its third year.  Internet traffic can be diverted by manipulating the order
of search results, said Susan Athey, a professor of economics at
Stanford University’s Graduate School of Business and a Microsoft
consultant, in a blog post on Microsoft’s website. When a site is
moved from the first position to the 10th position in a series
of search results, it typically will lose about 85 percent of its
traffic, she said.  “Impartiality of search results will become all the more
important in the years to come, given that screen sizes on
smartphones and tablets are smaller than on traditional PCs,”
Athey said. “Smaller screens mean there is even less room for
competing services to appear in Google’s mobile search.”  EU Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  has sought a
deal with Google to end the antitrust probe without imposing
fines, while competitors such as Microsoft and  TripAdvisor Inc. (TRIP) 
have tried to pressure regulators to force Mountain View,
California-based Google to change its business practices. The
U.S. ended an investigation into Google in January, saying there
was no evidence the company’s actions harmed consumers.  “We continue to work cooperatively with the European
Commission,” Al Verney, a Brussels-based Google spokesman, said
in an e-mailed statement.  The EU in 2010 began investigating claims Google
discriminated against other services in its search results and
stopped some websites from accepting competitors’ ads after
receiving complaints from Microsoft and others.  While Microsoft and partner  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  have about a
quarter of the U.S. Web-search market, Google has almost 95
percent of the traffic in  Europe , Microsoft said in a blog post
in 2011, citing data from regulators.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 