-- Indian Nifty Futures Drop, Signaling Shares May Fall for 8th Day
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2013-03-26T02:10:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/indian-nifty-futures-drop-signaling-shares-may-fall-for-8th-day.html
Indian stock-index futures
declined, signaling shares may drop for an eighth day, extending
a slump to a four-month low.  SGX CNX Nifty Index futures  for March delivery fell 0.4
percent to 5,626 at 9:53 a.m. in  Singapore . The contract expires
on March 28 and Indian markets are closed tomorrow and March 29
for holidays. The underlying CNX  Nifty (NIFTY)  Index lost 0.3 percent to
5,633.85 yesterday, the lowest close since Nov. 23. The S&P BSE
 Sensex (SENSEX)  index dropped 0.3 percent. The Bank of  New York  Mellon
India ADR Index of U.S.-traded shares slid 0.1 percent.  Indian stocks fell yesterday after a party that supports
Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s coalition government said it
would prefer elections in October, prompting concerns polls may
be held before schedule. Stocks have slumped since the Dravida
Munnetra Kazhagam party, the administration’s biggest ally, quit
the coalition on March 19, leaving the government 44 seats short
of a majority in the lower house of parliament.  “Domestically, the market has lost its sheen as political
uncertainty prevails,” Amar Ambani, head of research at IIFL
Ltd., wrote in an e-mail yesterday. “Expect more choppiness on
account of the futures and options expiry. A truncated week
could keep market participants on the sidelines.”  Policy Changes  The Sensex has retreated 3.8 percent this year amid the
weakest economic growth in a decade, the highest inflation among
major  emerging markets  and as more company earnings  missed
estimates  in the three months ended Dec. 31 compared with the
previous quarter.  The index trades at 12.6 times  projected 12-month profits ,
compared with the MSCI Emerging Markets Index’s 10.4 times. Its
30-day  volatility  gauge, a measure of price swings, climbed to
the highest level since October yesterday.  Singh’s government has introduced since September a series
of policy changes to revive the faltering economy, including
opening up aviation and retail industries to foreigners, easing
rules on overseas inflows and cutting subsidies. The government
estimates India needs more than $75 billion of foreign capital
this year and next to fund the  current-account deficit , which
widened to $22.3 billion, or 5.4 percent of gross domestic
product, in the three months to Sept. 30.  Investors’ pessimism on  India  may be excessive, as the
government’s commitment to move ahead with reforms is clear from
the calibrated monthly increase in diesel prices and moves to
liberalize foreign capital inflows, Deutsche Bank AG analysts
Abhay Laijawala and Abhishek Saraf wrote in a note.  Foreigners bought $37.5 million of domestic stocks on March
22, extending this year’s purchases to $9.9 billion, a record
for the period, data from the regulator show. Net inflows last
year totaled $24.5 billion, the most among 10 Asian markets
tracked by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  