-- India Plans New Rules for Companies Pawning Shares to Borrow
-- B y   P r a d i p t a   M u k h e r j e e   a n d   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y
-- 2013-03-26T08:32:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/india-plans-new-rules-for-companies-pawning-shares-to-borrow.html
India ’s capital market  regulator 
will frame stricter rules for companies and owners pledging
shares as collateral to borrow funds after uneven disclosures
resulted in some small companies plunging 80 percent last month.  The  Securities & Exchange Board of India  is also planning
to overhaul regulations for  insider trading , as well as share
repurchases, Chairman U.K. Sinha said in Kolkata today. The
regulator set up a panel on March 5 to review insider trading
rules. Indian companies had pledged as much as 1.5 trillion
rupees ($28 billion) of shares to lenders as of Dec. 31, Morgan
Stanley said in a report on Feb. 21.  “People have come out with creative solutions with some
instruments through which they are pledging shares and they are
not informing the stock exchange,” Chairman U.K. Sinha said
today in Kolkata, without elaborating. “Very soon we will take
measures to ensure that all kinds of encumbrances are reported
well in time so the market knows about it.”  Sinha is reviewing regulations to raise corporate
governance standards in the $1.2 trillion market. A dozen
companies on the S&P BSE500 index plunged last month amid
speculation the shares pledged by company’s founders in return
for loans have been sold.  Core Education & Technologies Ltd. (CETL) 
crashed 80 percent,  Gravita India Ltd. (GRAV)  38 percent and  ABG
Shipyard Ltd. (ABGS)  17 percent in the period.  Founders who have pledged a large chunk of their shares
risk losing control of their companies should a drop in equity
prices erode the value of the collateral, according to  CNI
Research Ltd. (CNIR)  Borrowing costs in the $1.8 trillion economy are
among the highest in  Asia .  Japanese Rules  Sebi’s move comes on the back of efforts by regulators
worldwide to curb insider trading. Japan’s financial regulator
is proposing imprisonment as part of stiffer penalties for
people who leak information used for insider trading, documents
obtained from the Financial Services Agency showed last week.  In October,  Rajat Gupta , the former Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. director and McKinsey & Co. managing director who rose to
the pinnacle of  Wall Street , was sentenced to two years in
prison for passing inside tips to his business partner.  “Our current regulation on insider trading is very old,”
Sinha said. “So in order to reconcile our insider trading
regulations with the rest of the world, we are coming out with
these guidelines.”  Buyback regulations are also being revamped to safeguard
the interests of ordinary shareholders, Sinha said.  “We got the impression that some companies were using the
buyback regulations not to reward the shareholders but to
manipulate the share price,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pradipta Mukherjee in Kolkata at 
 pmukherjee7@bloomberg.net ;
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Arijit Ghosh at 
 aghosh@bloomberg.net  