-- India’s Rupee Weakens as Current-Account Deficit Seen at Record
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2013-03-26T04:53:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/india-s-rupee-weakens-as-current-account-deficit-seen-at-record.html
India ’s rupee weakened on concern
the government will be unable to rein in a record current-
account deficit as inflows into equities slow. Bonds declined.  The shortfall in the current account, the broadest measure
of trade, widened to $31 billion in the fourth quarter from the
previous period’s record $22.3 billion, Bank of America Merrill
Lynch predicted in a report yesterday before official data due
March 28. Overseas funds have bought a net $1.7 billion of local
stocks this month through March 22, compared with  purchases  of
more than $4 billion in each of the previous three months,
exchange data show.  “The reliance on portfolio equity inflows will continue in
the immediate term,” analysts at DBS Group Holdings Ltd.,
including Singapore-based  David Carbon , wrote in a report today.
“With the current-account deficit on course to reach a record
high, any help in financing the shortfall is positive.”  The rupee declined 0.3 percent to 54.3375 per dollar as of
10:05 a.m. in Mumbai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
One-month implied volatility, a gauge of expected moves in the
 exchange rate  used to price options, fell 30 basis points, or
0.3 percentage point, to 8.33 percent.  The yield on the 8.15 percent bonds due June 2022 rose two
basis points to 7.96 percent, according to the central bank’s
trading system. Indian debt and  currency markets  will be shut
tomorrow for a public holiday.  Bond Purchases  The easing of debt-investment rules for foreigners will
encourage flows into bonds, according to the DBS note.  All restrictions and sub-limits governing purchases of
Indian government and corporate notes will be removed from April
1, while keeping the overall cap at $25 billion for sovereign
debt and $51 billion for securities issued by companies, Finance
Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram said in  New Delhi  on March 23.
A new “on tap” system will replace the existing auction
procedure for foreign investment in corporate bonds, he said.  The overall debt-purchase limit for overseas investors in
 Asia ’s third-largest economy is 4 percent of gross domestic
product, compared with a current-account gap of more than 5
percent, according to DBS. The government estimates India needs
more than $75 billion of foreign capital this year and next to
fund the current-account deficit.  Three-month onshore rupee forwards traded at 55.35 per
dollar, compared with 55.26 yesterday, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Offshore non-deliverable contracts were
at 55.27 versus 55.17. Forwards are agreements to buy or sell
assets at a set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are
settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  