-- Indonesia Panel Approves Martowardojo as Central Bank Chief
-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g
-- 2013-03-27T11:25:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/indonesia-panel-approves-martowardojo-for-central-bank-governor.html
Indonesian lawmakers yesterday
approved Finance Minister  Agus Martowardojo  to become the next
central bank governor after he said his priorities would be a
stable  exchange rate  and keeping inflation low.  Commission XI, a parliamentary panel for financial affairs,
voted in favor by 46 to 7, with one abstention, after
questioning Martowardojo for about eight hours March 25 on bank
ownership, market reciprocity, inflation management and monetary
policy. President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono  had nominated
Martowardojo, 57, to succeed Governor  Darmin Nasution , whose
term ends May 23.  The approval is set to be endorsed by Parliament on April 2,
allowing the president to reshuffle his top economic team as
Southeast  Asia ’s biggest economy grapples with a weakening
currency, a current-account deficit and elevated inflation.
Focus now turns to whom Yudhoyono will name finance minister as
the government prepares to adjust its fuel-subsidy policy to
curb oil imports and free up funds for infrastructure.  “Agus’s style in monetary policymaking remains to be seen
but generally we do not expect to see any drastic change in Bank
 Indonesia ’s policy mix,”  Helmi Arman , an economist at Citigroup
Inc. in Jakarta, said in a note today. With eyes now on the
selection of the new finance minister, and “given that the
cabinet’s service period is less than two years, the new finance
minister ideally needs to be able to hit the ground running.”  Worst Currency  The rupiah was the worst performer last year among Asia’s
10 most-traded currencies excluding the yen, and forecasts for
the currency are being cut by the most among  Southeast Asia ’s
emerging-market currencies as Indonesia’s sliding foreign
reserves prompt investors to sell the nation’s assets. Rupiah
forwards reached the weakest level since January yesterday.  The central bank will “guard rupiah stability in line with
its fundamentals,” Martowardojo said in response to lawmakers’
questions March 25.  Bank Indonesia  won’t defend the rupiah
beyond a certain level, he said.  Emir Moeis, Commission XI chairman and a member of the
opposition Indonesian  Democratic Party  of Struggle led by former
President Megawati Soekarnoputri, called on Yudhoyono to appoint
a new finance minister quickly.  “President SBY needs to appoint the new finance minister
soon to give confidence to the market,” he said after
yesterday’s vote. “If the president takes a long time, it will
have a negative impact on Indonesia’s market.”  Internal Promotion  He also urged the president to promote someone from within
the Finance Ministry, so he or she would have the experience
necessary to quickly master the job.  “The interesting question is who will be the next finance
minister,”  Agost Benard , an associate director at  Standard &
Poor’s  in  Singapore , said before the decision. The central bank
“will continue to be inflation targeting with an eye on
economic growth. And that will happen in strong cooperation with
the finance ministry.”  Inflation accelerated in February to a 20-month high of
5.31 percent. Consumer-price gains are targeted at 3.5 percent
to 5.5 percent this year and next, Martowardojo said, adding
that the aim is to keep inflation low with a policy mix of
 interest rates  and the exchange rate.  The country’s lending rates are “quite high” because some
banks are paying a higher deposit rate, making their cost of
funds expensive, he said. The central bank kept its  benchmark
rate  at a record-low 5.75 percent in March.  “To keep inflation low is the main job of Bank
Indonesia,” Martowardojo said. “We need to be cautious, as
when investors see there’s inflation pressure, it can trigger
capital outflows.” A weakening rupiah can add to inflation
pressure and hurt economic growth, he said.  Foreign Reserves  Indonesia’s foreign-exchange reserves fell $7.6 billion in
the first two months of 2013 to a two-year low of $105.2 billion
and a further drop of at least $2 billion is forecast for this
month, according to  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and two local lenders. That
will put downward pressure on the rupiah, according to Barclays,
 BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  and Aberdeen Asset Management Plc.  The trade deficit widened to a record in October. Reserves
are also under pressure from fuel subsidies. Indonesia limited
the use of partially government-funded diesel in January, after
protests derailed plans to raise prices in 2012. Fuel subsidies
rose to 211.9 trillion rupiah ($22 billion) last year as the
country imported about $29 billion of oil products, based on
official data.  Yudhoyono said on March 13 the government is formulating a
more targeted fuel-subsidy policy because the current one
benefits middle to upper-income groups more than the poor. The
plan may be fleshed out in one to two weeks, he said.  Advising Caution  “We need to be cautious, as we have problems with the
trade deficit and the current account due to higher oil
imports,” Martowardojo said March 25, adding that failure to
introduce concrete measures to cut fuel subsidies will hurt the
budget in the third quarter. “If Indonesia can’t manage fuel
subsidies, it can add pressure on the rupiah and reduce foreign-
exchange reserves.”  Martowardojo started his career at  Bank of America  Corp.,
according to the  Finance Ministry ’s website. He was president
director of  PT Bank Mandiri (BMRI) , the country’s largest lender by
assets, before becoming finance minister. The Amsterdam-born
banker holds a bachelor’s degree in economics from the
University of Indonesia, according to Bank Mandiri’s website at
the time of his appointment to the finance role.  Yudhoyono hasn’t said who he would appoint to replace
Martowardojo at the finance ministry should he win Parliament
approval to move to the central bank. Julian Aldrin Pasha, a
presidential spokesman, has denied rumors that Martowardojo and
Bank Indonesia Governor Nasution will switch jobs.  The president wants Martowardojo to maintain monetary and
fiscal stability, Pasha said in Jakarta today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  