-- Intel Said to Be Nearing Media Deals for Pay-TV Service
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r   a n d   I a n   K i n g
-- 2013-03-26T20:36:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/intel-said-nearing-media-company-deals-for-pay-tv-service.html
Intel Corp. (INTC)  is making progress in
talks with  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) , NBC Universal and  Viacom Inc. (VIAB)  to
obtain TV shows and films for a first-of-its kind online pay-TV
service, according to people with knowledge of the situation.  Intel, the world’s largest chipmaker, is negotiating
financial terms with the companies, according to the people, who
sought anonymity because the talks are private. The media
companies have signed off on the broad outlines of the proposed
service, they said, with some aspects still to be settled. Other
network owners aren’t as far along, the people said.  Networks such as Time Warner’s CNN, NBC’s USA Network and
Viacom’s MTV would give Intel critical mass to offer consumers
an alternative to established pay-TV services. Using its own
set-top box, Intel plans to offer an online product this year,
Erik Huggers, Intel’s vice president for media, said last month.
That would represent new competition for incumbent operators
like  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)  and  DirecTV. (DTV)   Intel is betting it can create a more flexible service,
delivered through consumers’ broadband accounts, that gives
subscribers more choices over the channels they receive and
offers an easier-to-use electronic programming guide, Huggers
said. The service would offer live channels and on-demand
programming.  The chipmaker is about to begin financial negotiations with
 News Corp. (NWSA) , owner of the Fox film and TV businesses, two people
said. Discussions with  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  and  CBS Corp. (CBS)  are at a
more preliminary stage, according to the people.  New Customer  Media companies gain a deep-pocketed customer that will
probably pay more initially for the content than existing cable
and satellite-TV systems,  David Bank , an analyst at RBC Capital
in New York, said in an e-mail.  “It’s great” for media companies, Bank said. “Intel will
have to pay a premium as the new kid on the block.”  Jon Carvill, spokesman for Santa Clara, California-based
Intel, declined to comment.  Intel  added  2.9 percent to $21.77 at the close in New York.
Time Warner, based in New York, advanced 0.7 percent to $56.91,
while Viacom, also in New York, was little changed at $61.34.
NBC’s parent, Philadelphia-based Comcast, slipped 0.6 percent to
$41.47.  Leslie Moonves, chief executive officer of New York-based
CBS, said on a Feb. 14 earnings call that his company is having
conversations with Intel. Time Warner CEO  Jeff Bewkes  said he
would consider providing content to Internet pay-TV services
like the one proposed by Intel.  New Models  “Not just Time Warner, but all of us have to look at these
new distribution methods and whether they’re viable,” Bewkes
said March 4 at an investor conference. “No one has come along
with that yet, and we’d look at it.”  Intel is seeking access to live television, a library of
on-demand shows and rights for a cloud-based digital video
recorder, the people said. Customers would receive programming
on TV sets, computers and mobile devices, Huggers said.  The push into the media business is part of Intel’s effort
to lessen its dependence on the personal-computer market, which
is predicted to decline for a second straight year in 2013.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  