-- Intuitive Surgical Loses Bid to Throw Out Robot Lawsuit
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   R o b e r t   L a n g r e t h
-- 2013-03-26T20:22:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/intuitive-surgical-loses-bid-to-throw-out-robot-lawsuit.html
Intuitive Surgical Inc. (ISRG) , a maker of
surgical robots used in more than 300,000 U.S. operations last
year, must face claims it marketed the devices to doctors
without providing adequate training, a judge ruled.  A Washington state court yesterday denied Intuitive’s bid
to throw out a lawsuit over the death of a patient operated on
using the company’s  da Vinci surgical system , according to court
filings. The judge found the state’s product-liability laws
require medical-device makers to properly train physicians who
buy their products.  Fred Taylor’s family can proceed with claims seeking
damages for “harm allegedly caused by the improper marketing of
the da Vinci surgical system,” Kitsap County Superior Court
Judge  Jay Roof  concluded in a five-page ruling.  The lawsuit in Kitsap County is among almost a dozen filed
against Intuitive since 2011 alleging injuries tied to the
robot-surgery systems. Intuitive’s robots, which cost about $1.5
million each, are used in 1,371 U.S. hospitals, the company has
said. The robots and related products generated most of the
company’s $2.2 billion revenue in 2012. The company faces
allegations it provides insufficient training for the surgical
devices in its push to speed revenue growth.  The judge’s ruling “was not a decision based on the merits
of the case,”  Angela Wonson , a spokeswoman for the Sunnyvale,
California-based company, said in an e-mailed statement. The
decision “indicates there are disputed facts that require this
issue to be resolved at trial.”  Intuitive rose 1.8 percent to $497.25 in trading in  New
York  today.  Massachusetts Reports  Massachusetts officials said this month they have been
receiving a rising number of reports about injuries linked to
the surgical robots, spurring calls for better training
oversight and more disclosure about health risks posed by the
devices.  In robot surgery, a doctor sits at a video-game style
console several feet from the patient and peers into a high-
definition display. Foot pedals and hand controls maneuver
mechanical arms equipped with surgical tools, guided by a 3-D
camera that shows the work as it is done inside a patient.  Taylor’s family contends he was injured during a 2008
procedure to remove his prostate. They contend his doctor, who
relied on the da Vinci system to perform the surgery, had never
before used it on a patient without being supervised, according
to court filings.  Unsupervised Surgeries  Taylor suffered  kidney failure ,  brain damage , permanent
incontinence, and a 1-inch tear in his rectum as a result of the
surgery, lawyers for his family said in the filings. He later
died of heart failure that his family contends was caused by the
robotic procedure.  Taylor’s family accused Intuitive officials of failing to
properly train doctors about the da Vinci system and then
recommending they perform unsupervised surgeries too quickly.  They said Taylor’s doctor made several mistakes during the
unmonitored operation, including deciding to rely on the robotic
system at all, according to court filings. The two previous
surgeries he’d done with the device were supervised by more
experienced robot-surgery practitioners, the filings show.  Intuitive’s lawyers argued in their court filings the
company has no duty to train doctors on the da Vinci system
under  Washington  state’s law and federal regulations governing
approval of medical devices.  Malpractice Claims  The company contends Taylor’s family can only bring
medical-malpractice claims against his doctor rather than
product-liability claims against the device’s maker.  The family’s suit against Intuitive amount to “an
educational malpractice claim, which has been barred” by most
states, the company’s lawyers said in court filings.  Roof, the judge in Taylor’s case, said a review of
Washington’s product-liability laws shows medical-device makers
have a duty to adequately train doctors in the state to safely
use their systems.  Whether the company failed “to provide adequate warnings
regarding the use of the da Vinci surgical system” and
neglected “to properly train and instruct” Taylor’s doctors on
the device must be considered by a jury, the judge said.  ‘Headline Risk’  Taylor’s lawyers said today that the family’s claims are
set for trial starting April 15 in  Port Orchard , Washington.  “These lawsuits are highlighting training issues in the
field and they are raising issues with outcomes that aren’t
optimal” after robotic surgery, said Suraj Kalia, a New York-
based analyst at Northland Securities.  “There would be headline risk for this stock” if the case
went to trial and details of the company’s marketing efforts
were made public, he added. Kalia has a sell rating on Intuitive
stock.  The case is Estate of Fred E. Taylor v. Intuitive Surgical,
09-2-03136-5, Superior Court, State of Washington, Kitsap County
(Port Orchard).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Langreth in New York at 
 rlangreth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  