-- It’s the Perfect Time to Fix Our Roads and Bridges
-- B y   P e t e r   O r s z a g
-- 2013-03-26T22:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/it-s-the-perfect-time-to-fix-our-roads-and-bridges.html
Roads, bridges and other
infrastructure in the U.S. are steadily growing older and
weaker. Given low interest rates and elevated unemployment, this
is an ideal moment to invest in fixing them.  Our structures are aging as fast as we are. From 2000 to
2010, the median human age in the U.S. rose by almost two years,
from 35.3 to 37.2, and the average age of nonresidential
corporate fixed assets increased by about the same amount. Fixed
assets as a whole aged from an average of 20.7 years to 22.1.  Does age matter? Unfortunately, with infrastructure it
does.  A  December 2010 report  from the Department of Homeland
Security underscores the threat. “Age,” it says, “often acts
together with and may reinforce the effect of other factors such
as design, maintenance, and operation in increasing the
vulnerability of infrastructure.”  Consider the situation in  New York  State, where about 10
percent of the roughly 22,000 bridges were built before 1930.
More than 10 percent of these old bridges have a superstructure
rating of poor or worse, compared with less than 5 percent of
the bridges built during the past four decades.  As my former colleague Larry Summers  has written , “No one
who travels from the United States abroad can doubt that we have
an enormous infrastructure deficit. Surely even leaving aside
any possible stimulus benefits, current economic conditions make
this the ideal time for renewing the nation’s infrastructure.”  So what to do?  Barbell Approach  The 2009 stimulus bill helped a bit -- it allocated about
$100 billion to infrastructure investment (estimates vary
slightly depending on the definition of “infrastructure”). But
that was only about 12 percent of the total bill, and it was not
sufficient to address the growing problem.  Four steps are needed now.  First, we need to couple immediate federal spending on
public assets with substantial, credible deficit-reduction
measures that are scheduled to take effect later on. Such a
“barbell”  approach  to fiscal policy would require that
Republicans acknowledge the value of additional stimulus while
the unemployment rate is high, and that Democrats see how
Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security could be preserved and
strengthened through certain cost-saving measures over time. The
upfront piece should include an ambitious $250 billion
infrastructure program (including federal, state and local
spending) over the next two years.  Second, we should  bring back  Build America Bonds. The
traditional approach to state and local infrastructure financing
allows the interest on the bonds to be excluded from federal
taxation. That approach has been shown to provide undue benefit
to purchasers in the top marginal-tax bracket. Build America
Bonds, in contrast, provide a direct subsidy to the borrowers,
and thereby deliver more of the federal subsidy to the state and
local governments.  More than 2,000 Build America Bonds were issued in 2009 and
2010, and the Treasury Department has estimated that state and
local governments have saved $20 billion in present value as a
result. It’s time to bring the program back.  Third, federal policy makers should see how innovative
programs such as the Chicago Infrastructure Trust work in
practice. If Chicago can point the way for other cities to
attract new forms of financing, it will have done a great
service.  User Fees  Finally, federal, state and local governments alike should
expand the use of pricing to get the most out of existing roads,
bridges and the like and to finance improvements. User fees for
transportation, for example, should be expanded, as was recently
recommended by Jack Basso, a former chief operating officer of
the American Association of State Highway and Transportation
Officials, and Tyler Duvall, a former assistant secretary at the
Transportation Department. This approach, they noted in  a paper 
for the Hamilton Project, has been successful in other countries
but has been used much less in the U.S. A road-pricing system
could raise as much as $55 billion a year to finance new
investments or deficit reduction, the U.S. Transportation
Department has estimated. It would also cut congestion and
carbon emissions.  In the absence of such steps, our infrastructure will only
become less safe and less productive. Although we may not be
able to do much about our own aging, there’s plenty we could do
to keep public infrastructure young.  (Peter Orszag is vice chairman of corporate and investment
banking and chairman of the financial strategy and solutions
group at Citigroup Inc., and a former director of the Office of
Management and Budget in the Obama administration. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Peter Orszag at  orszagbloomberg@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  