-- Italy Extradition of Amanda Knox Seen as Difficult
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d   a n d   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2013-03-26T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/italy-extradition-of-amanda-knox-seen-as-difficult.html
An order by Italy’s Supreme Court
that Amanda Knox face a second trial on charges she helped
murder U.K. student  Meredith Kercher  is unlikely to result in
her extradition due to a U.S. prohibition on being tried twice
for the same crime.  Knox was an exchange student in Perugia at the time of
Kercher’s 2007 killing in what Italian prosecutors said was a
drug-fueled sex game turned violent. Knox was convicted in 2009
and sentenced to 26 years in prison. She served almost four
years before the verdict was overturned two years later.  Her defense has “extremely powerful arguments to put a
halt to the extradition process,” said Sean Casey, a  New York 
attorney at Kobre & Kim LLP and a former U.S. prosecutor, not
the least of which is the bar on double jeopardy.  “The treaty between the two countries specifically
prohibits extradition of someone that was once acquitted for a
crime,” Casey said in an interview. Given the “massive flaws”
in the original trial, he said, her lawyers would have strong
grounds to lobby the U.S. government to turn down any request.  In setting aside the 2011 appellate decision, the Italian
high court yesterday approved a prosecution request to retry
Knox, 25, and her former boyfriend,  Raffaele Sollecito .  Sollecito, 29, was also convicted and sentenced to a 25
year-term for his alleged role in the killing. He was freed
following the 2011 reversal.  Throat Slashed  Kercher, 21, was found dead on Nov. 2, 2007, in her bedroom
at the house she shared with Knox and two other women. She was
discovered half-naked and strangled with her throat slashed.  Prosecutor Giuliano Mignini said at the initial trial that
Knox had masterminded an alleged sex game involving Sollecito
and Ruby Guede, an Ivorian-born Italian citizen, which turned
violent, leading to Kercher’s murder. Sollecito and Knox have
denied any wrongdoing.  Guede was found guilty in a separate “fast-track” trial
in 2008 and sentenced to 30 years. His sentence was cut to 16
years in a 2009 appeal.  Knox first told police she was at the villa at the time of
the killing, and that she was alerted by screaming from
Kercher’s room. She also named the owner of a bar where she had
worked as the possible killer. A witness later confirmed his
alibi.  The case was the subject of intense media interest in
 Italy , the U.K. and the U.S. The appeals trial in 2011 saw a
wave of journalists descend on Perugia, a town of 170,000 in
central Italy.  Unfavorable Verdict  Unlike in most U.S. criminal cases, Italian prosecutors may
appeal an unfavorable verdict. In a statement yesterday, Knox
assailed the Italian high court’s order for a new trial.  “The prosecution’s theory of my involvement in Meredith’s
murder has been repeatedly revealed to be completely
unfounded,” Knox said, according to an e-mail sent yesterday by
David Marriott, a spokesman for her family. Knox returned to her
hometown of  Seattle  after her conviction was set aside.  Any eventual extradition request could be considered in the
event of Knox’s conviction in the retrial, and confirmation by
Italy’s highest court, according to an Italian Justice Ministry
official.  Such a request wouldn’t involve the Italian government,
Prime Minister  Mario Monti ’s spokeswoman said. The retrial may
take place within a year, according to Knox’s lawyer, Luciano
Ghirga.  ‘Formal Request’  “There’s a treaty, and the Italian government has to make a
formal request” to the U.S. for extradition, said Michele
Martinez Campbell, a Vermont Law School professor and former
federal prosecutor, in a telephone interview. “Then a  U.S.
Department of Justice  prosecutor goes to court” for a bail
hearing and presentation of Italy’s case.  Martinez said extradition can take years to complete.  Gregory Craig, a partner at Skadden Arps Slate Meagher &
Flom LLP in  Washington , who served as a White House counsel to
President  Barack Obama  in 2009 and 2010, said Italy would first
ask Knox if she would waive extradition and return voluntarily.  If not, Craig said, she might be taken into custody and
Italian officials--through U.S. prosecutors--would have to show
probable cause in Italy’s murder case, including evidence, to
the satisfaction of a U.S. judge.  Rebecca Shaeffer, law reform officer for Fair Trials
International in  London , a group which works to help ensure fair
trials, agreed with Casey that double jeopardy may be an
impediment to any extradition bid.  Treaty Article  The treaty contains an article which prohibits extradition
in cases where a person has previously been acquitted,
convicted or served a prison sentence for the same charges in
the same country, Shaeffer said.  This treaty article could potentially protect Knox from a 
future extradition request if a U.S. court agrees that it
applies to the current proceedings in Italy.  One legal expert said the double jeopardy clause may not be
a strong shield against extradition.  The U.S. has been enforcing the 1983 extradition treaty
“fairly vigorously for the last 30 years,” said William
Magnuson, a Harvard Law School professor. Italy might argue that
Knox wasn’t formally acquitted since the lower court rulings in
her case haven’t been legally finalized, Magnuson said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington,  Delaware , at   pmilford@bloomberg.net  and;
Chiara Vasarri in  Rome  at   cvasarri@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net . 