-- Italy Must Finish Cutting Ties Between Banks and Politics
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-03-26T23:02:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/italy-must-finish-cutting-ties-between-banks-and-politics.html
Were it not for some shady
derivatives trades carried out by the world’s oldest bank, Banca
Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA,  Italy ’s most recent parliamentary
elections might have produced a government.  When Bloomberg News on Jan. 17 broke the first details of
derivatives transactions that the bailed-out Monte dei Paschi
made to hide losses, the election campaign was in full flight.
Many Italians were planning to vote for Pier Luigi Bersani’s
center-left Democratic Party, tired of the endless conflicts of
interest and political corruption that former Prime Minister
Silvio Berlusconi had come to represent.  Yet the Democratic Party ran the philanthropic foundation
that, in turn, controlled Monte dei Paschi. The foundation for
years had chosen the bank’s top executives, meddled in
investment decisions and determined how the bank’s largess, via
dividends, should be distributed in Siena. As more revelations
followed, the Monte dei Paschi affair seemed for many Italians
proof that their entire political system was rotten. Bersani’s
sizable lead began to evaporate, and by election day no party
had enough support to form a government.  The story of Italy’s 88 bank foundations that Elisa Martinuzzi lays out in the May issue of Bloomberg Markets
magazine is one of good intentions gone awry. The foundations
were in many ways virtuous. They were meant to help move the
country’s banking system from state to private control.
Foundation ownership meant that bank dividends went to
philanthropic causes.  The banking system that resulted did a decent job as far as
the wider society was concerned. Italy spent slightly less than
0.3 percent of annual gross domestic product recapitalizing its
banking sector from 2008 to 2011, compared with 2.5 percent of
GDP in  Germany  and 40 percent of GDP in Ireland, according to
 data  from the European Commission.  Still, the foundation system proved susceptible to the
weaknesses that hobble Italy’s political economy, namely
patronage and corruption. Some foundations, such as Fondazione
Monte dei Paschi di Siena, held onto their bank shares, partly
because they offered too useful and lucrative a political tool.
No wonder former Treasury Minister Giuliano Amato, who drew up
the 1990 law that set up the foundations, recently called his
creations Frankensteins.  Italians voted against their political system in February.
Beppe Grillo’s Five Star Movement, which calls for erasing the
entire political structure, won a quarter of the vote. Grillo
then ruled out supporting any of the traditional parties in
government, forcing a period of gridlock. Italy’s economy is too
fragile for such uncertainty, which is helping to choke off
desperately needed flows of bank credit.  More than a month after the elections, negotiations to form
a government continue. Time is running out for Bersani. Grillo
should play a positive role by pledging Bersani enough votes in
the Senate to control it (the Democratic Party already has a
majority in the House), in exchange for commitments to a handful
of Five Star Movement demands such reforms to the electoral
system. Achieving that alone would earn Grillo a place in
Italy’s history books.  There are alternatives, but they’re less attractive. Fresh
elections might produce more votes for Grillo, but quite
possibly no clear majority again, meaning an extended period of
uncertainty. A grand coalition between Bersani’s left and
Berlusconi’s right would involve the kind of horse-trading
within the old political elite that Grillo and many Italians
want to end.  Whatever shape the next government takes, it can go a small
way toward restoring confidence in the system by ensuring that
local governments and party officials can no longer appoint
foundation directors, and by forcing foundations that still have
large bank stakes to sell them. Italy needs to complete the
transition to private ownership that its financial sector began
more than 20 years ago.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net  