-- Italy’s Court Orders Retrial for Amanda Knox in Murder Case
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i   a n d   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2013-03-26T15:38:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/italy-s-top-court-orders-retrial-for-amanda-knox-in-murder-case.html
Italy ’s highest court decided today
Amanda Knox and her former boyfriend Raffaele Sollecito must be
tried again for the murder of British student Meredith Kercher.  Knox, now 25, was an exchange student in Perugia at the
time of Kercher’s murder in 2007. She was originally convicted
and sentenced to 26 years and served almost four years in jail
before the decision was overturned in October 2011. Sollecito,
29, was also sentenced to 25 years in jail in the first ruling
in 2009 and found not guilty on appeal in 2011. Knox returned to
her hometown in  Seattle  after the appeals verdict.  “It was painful to receive the news that the Italian
 Supreme Court  decided to send my case back for revision when the
prosecution’s theory of my involvement in Meredith’s murder has
been repeatedly revealed to be completely unfounded and
unfair,” Knox said, according to an e-mail sent by David
Marriott, a spokesman for her family.  The court today approved the prosecutors’ request to void
the appeals court verdict and try Knox and Sollecito again,
according to a court official. The case against Knox and
Sollecito will be retried in a Florence court of appeals. Knox,
who is still considered innocent pending the retrial verdict,
will evaluate whether to take part in the trial, her lawyer
Luciano Ghirga said on television network SkyTG24.  Media Attention  The case garnered global media attention in Italy, the U.K.
and the U.S., and the appeals trial in 2011 saw a wave of
journalists descending on Perugia, a town of 170,000 in central
Italy. In Italy, the prosecution can file appeals when a verdict
goes against them. An eventual extradition request could be
considered in the event of a conviction in the retrial and
confirmation by the highest court, according to a Justice
Ministry official. That request wouldn’t involve the Italian
government, Prime Minister  Mario Monti ’s spokeswoman said. The
retrial is expected within one year, Ghirga said.  The case should be examined by “an objective investigation
and a capable prosecution,” Knox said in the statement. “No
matter what happens, my family and I will face this continuing
legal battle as we always have, confident in the truth and with
our heads held high in the face of wrongful accusations and
unreasonable adversity.”  Sex Game  Kercher, a 21-year-old student, was found dead in her
bedroom, half-naked and strangled with her throat slashed, on
Nov. 2, 2007 at the house she shared with Knox and two other
women. Prosecutor Giuliano Mignini said at the original trial
that Knox had masterminded a drug-fueled sex game involving
Sollecito and Ruby Guede, an Ivorian-born Italian citizen, which
turned violent, leading to the murder. Sollecito and Knox have
always denied any wrongdoing.  Guede was found guilty in a separate “fast-track” trial
in 2008 and sentenced to 30 years. He had his sentence reduced
to 16 years in a 2009 appeal.  “The battle goes on,” Sollecito’s attorney Giulia Bongiorno said on SkyTG24 today. The court’s reasoning, which
will be published at a later stage “will tell if the retrial is
on everything or if part of the appeals sentence can be saved.”  Knox didn’t understand why the court didn’t believe her
innocence, Ghirga said, citing a conversation with his client
after the verdict today. “We’ll have the same energies to
sustain Amanda’s innocence in the Florence court.”  Jessica Rabbit  In arguments to the appeals court in 2011, Sollecito’s
attorney Bongiorno compared Knox to Jessica Rabbit, saying the
American had been unfairly portrayed in the media as a savvy,
sex-obsessed manipulator. Like the cartoon-film character, Knox
“isn’t bad, she’s just drawn that way,” Bongiorno said.  Knox first told police she was at the villa at the time of
the killing and that screaming from Kercher’s room alerted her
to the crime scene. She also initially named the owner of a bar
where she had worked as the possible killer. The man, Patrick
Diya Lumumba, was arrested and later released after a witness
confirmed his alibi.  Neither Knox nor Sollecito were in court today. Knox’s
memoir on the years spent in prison, “Waiting to Be Heard,”
will be released April 30, according to the website of publisher
 Harper Collins .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  