-- J&J Recalls 1.9 Million Blood Sugar Meters After Death
-- B y   R o b e r t   L a n g r e t h
-- 2013-03-26T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/j-j-recalls-1-9-million-blood-sugar-meters-after-death.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , the world’s
biggest maker of health-care products, said it was recalling
almost 1.9 million glucose meters in the wake of a death of a
patient in  Europe  following an inaccurate blood-sugar reading.  The company’s LifeScan unit is recalling the blood glucose
meters, including 90,000 that were sold in the U.S., because
they shut off or provide inaccurate readings at extremely high
blood-sugar levels. The recall affects three models, including
one sold in the U.S. called OneTouch VerioIQ, said David
Detmers, a company spokesman.  J&J started to investigate the issue late last year when
the problem was noticed by internal company testing, he said.
Soon after that, a report was received of a European patient who
died following an inaccurate, low reading on the OneTouch
VerioPro, one of the now-recalled meters. J&J hasn’t been able
to determine whether the faulty reading led to the death,
Detmers said. No adverse events have been reported in the U.S.  “The products are not performing as intended at these high
blood-glucose levels,” Detmers said yesterday in a phone
interview. “We place patient safety first and want to make sure
we remove the products and replace them.”  J&J has recalled a variety of products since 2010 including
over-the-counter medicines such as children’s Tylenol, metal hip
implants and a bone putty used to stop bleeding. The medicine
recalls forced New Brunswick, New Jersey-based J&J to close a
factory and sign a consent decree with U.S. regulators to
oversee some manufacturing. The company also faces more than
1,800 lawsuits from women who blame internal injuries on vaginal
mesh implants and 10,000 lawsuits from patients who say they got
faulty hip replacements.  Software Issue  The errors with the blood-sugar meters, which occur at
super-high levels of 1,024 milligrams per deciliter and higher,
are caused by a software problem, Detmers said. It took time
investigate and understand the scope of the software malfunction
after reports of trouble with the product, he said.  Such extremely high blood-sugar levels rarely occur, but
when they do “it is a serious health risk requiring immediate
medical attention,” J&J said in a statement yesterday
announcing the recall. Faulty readings in this circumstance may
lead to serious health problems or death, the company said.  The meters affected by the recall are the OneTouch VerioIQ,
the OneTouch VerioPro, and the OneTouch VerioPro+, Detmers said.
Patients can continue using the VerioIQ meter until the product
is replaced, he said. The VerioIQ shuts down at the ultra high
level, which may be a sign of extreme hyperglycemia requiring a
patient get immediate medical attention, J&J said in its
statement.  Sales of the Verio systems are “very modest,” said Ernie Knewitz, a J&J spokesman, who declined to provide further
details. LifeScan generated $2.6 billion in 2012 sales of
diabetes care products, J&J reported in a regulatory filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Langreth in  New York  at 
 rlangreth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  