-- U.S. Stocks Rise, Oil Posts Best Gain of Year on Economy
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   S a r a h   P r i n g l e
-- 2013-03-26T20:24:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/japan-bonds-surge-on-kuroda-purchase-plan-won-at-one-week-high.html
U.S. stocks and commodities
climbed, with oil posting its biggest gain of the year, after
bigger-than-forecast increases in American durable-goods orders
and  home prices  bolstered optimism in the world’s largest
economy. Treasuries erased earlier losses.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced 0.8 percent to
1,563.77 at 4 p.m. in  New York , closing within two points of its
2007 record, while Mexico’s IPC Index jumped 1.8 percent for its
best gain since January 2012. Oil rallied 1.6 percent, while
natural gas led the S&P GSCI Index of commodities higher on
forecasts for cold U.S. weather. Ten-year Treasury yields
decreased one basis point to 1.91 percent after rising two
points earlier. The euro was little changed versus the dollar
while the yen weakened against all 16 major peers.  All 10 of the  main industry groups  in the S&P 500 advanced
and the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  returned to a record.
Bookings for U.S. goods meant to last at least three years rose
5.7 percent in February, the most since September, the Commerce
Department said, while the S&P/Case-Shiller index of home prices
increased by the most since 2006. The data overshadowed a worse-
than-forecast decline in U.S.  consumer confidence .  “We’ve seen really a resilient market, in contrast to what
we saw through much of last year. We get a little pullback in
the market like we did yesterday and people look at that as an
opportunity to buy,” Brad Sorensen, director of market and
sector analysis at Charles Schwab Corp., said in a phone
interview. The San Francisco-based firm has $2.01 trillion in
client assets. “The home story, the trends have been pretty
positive for the past six months at least. One number that’s a
little bit less-than-expected is not going to rattle too many
people.”  Durable Goods  The  S&P 500  rebounded from yesterday’s 0.3 percent decline,
triggered after the bailout of Cyprus spurred concern bank
deposits in other euro-area nations may be subject to levies to
pay for rescues in the future. Early gains in the market
yesterday sent the S&P 500 to within 1 point of its 2007 record
and today it closed within two points of the high.  Gauges of health-care, energy and consumer-staples
companies helped lead the advance in  the 10  main industry groups
in the S&P 500.  Boeing Co.,  Intel Corp . and Hewlett-Packard Co. rose more
than 2 percent for the biggest gains in the Dow, sending the 30-
stock average up 111.9 points to 14,559.65.  Monsanto Co. jumped 4.4 percent as the company and DuPont
Co. agreed to dismiss their respective antitrust and soybean
patent lawsuits. Netflix climbed 5.4 percent after Pacific Crest
Securities LLC raised its price target on the shares. Clothing
retailers retreated, with Gap Inc. and Macy’s Inc. losing at
least 0.9 percent, after the  International Council of Shopping
Centers  cut the top end of March sales forecast.  Economic Data  Benchmark indexes rallied all day after the  S&P/Case-
Shiller index  of property values in 20 cities increased 8.1
percent in January from the same month in 2012, exceeding the
7.9 percent median forecast by economists in a Bloomberg survey.  Another report showed the Conference Board’s index declined
to 59.7 from a revised three-month high of 68 in February as
 Washington ’s budget battle soured views of the economic outlook.
Economists surveyed by Bloomberg projected the March measure
would fall to 67.5. New-home sales declined 4.6 percent, worse
than the 3.9 percent median estimate. Sales still capped the
best back-to-back months in more than four years, spurred by
near record-low borrowing costs and improving job prospects.  “The overall trend continues to show improvement for the
U.S. despite some of the fiscal challenges,”  Henk Potts , who
helps oversee $282 billion as an equity strategist at Barclays
Plc in  London , said in a phone interview. “Markets don’t go up
in a straight line, and there is potential for pullbacks, but we
still believe the fundamentals are very supportive.”  European Movers  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index added 0.2 percent with gains led
by financial and construction  stocks . Telephone companies
dropped as  Telefonica SA (TEF)  slipped 5 percent when trading resumed
after a suspension. The Spanish mobile-phone operator is selling
990 million euros of treasury stock to reduce its debt.  Telecom
Italia SpA (TIT)  dropped 5.5 percent as Barclays Plc and Bank of
America Corp. downgraded the stock.  Celesio AG (CLS1)  gained 4 percent after the German drug
wholesaler reported that earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization climbed in 2012.  Italy ’s 10-year bond yield slipped four basis points to
4.57 percent and Spain’s dropped three basis points to 4.93
percent. The advance pared some of yesterday’s decline, which
sent yields for both up 10 basis points. European Central Bank
executive board member Benoit Coeure said today the institution
will do everything it can within the terms of its mandate to
preserve the euro.  European Yields  With the yields of the euro area’s most-indebted nations
getting support from the ECB, the region’s safest bonds are
proving the best indicator of risk amid turmoil in Cyprus.  While Spanish and Italian bonds weathered events from
Cyprus over the past 11 days, yields on German securities, along
with those of French, Austrian and Belgian debt, fell as
investors sought haven assets. The rate on two-year German notes
fell below zero on March 18 for the first time since Jan. 2,
while Austria’s 10-year yield dropped to a record on March 22.  Italian borrowing costs dropped at the sale of 8.5 billion
euros ($10.9 billion) six-month bills today. The rate decreased
to 0.831 percent, from 1.237 percent at an auction of similar-
maturity debt Feb. 26.  Democratic Party leader Pier Luigi Bersani has two days
left to overcome a shortfall of support in parliament, after
President Giorgio Napolitano gave him a mandate on March 22 to
try to form a government. Bersani will meet adversary  Silvio Berlusconi ’s deputies at the People of Liberty party today.  ‘Political Risk’  “With the political risk in Italy continuing, it will be
hard for the euro to make any headway,” said Yuki Sakasai, a
foreign-exchange strategist at Barclays Plc in New York.  The S&P GSCI gauge of 24 commodities advanced for a third
day, rising 0.9 percent. U.S. natural gas futures gained for the
first time in five days, rising as much as 3.3 percent.  Matt
Rogers , president of Commodity Weather Group LLC, said the
Midwest and East will see seasonal to below-average temperatures
in the next 10 to 15 days. Oil climbed 1.6 percent to a five-
week high of $96.34 a barrel.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index added 0.5 percent, gaining
for a second day as benchmark gauges in  Thailand  and the
 Philippines  added at least 1 percent. The Shanghai Composite
Index fell 1.3 percent, the most in a week, after the China
Securities Journal said many banks started to control the scale
of loans for property development.  Fomento Economico Mexicano SAB, a distributor of Coca-Cola,
jumped 4.4 percent to help lead the gain in Mexico’s IPC Index
and Mexico’s peso touched an 18-month high as the U.S. data
bolstered the outlook for the nation’s biggest export market.
 Brazil ’s Bovespa rebounded from an eight-month low.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Pringle in New York at 
 springle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  