-- Japan’s Aichi Prefecture Said to Plan Sale of Toll-Road Rights
-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o
-- 2013-03-26T06:07:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/japan-s-aichi-prefecture-said-to-plan-sale-of-toll-road-rights.html
Aichi prefecture in central Japan
plans to raise about 100 billion yen ($1.1 billion) in the
country’s first sale of concessions to operate public toll
roads, said two people with knowledge of the matter.  The government  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s home state is preparing
to auction contracts for eight toll roads, said the people, who
asked not to be identified as the deliberations are private. The
plan is pending an amendment to laws that ban private
enterprises from owning rights to operate public roads, one of
the people said.  Local governments in Japan are under pressure as an  aging
population  and decades of deflation erode tax income. Aichi’s
tax revenue has been falling since 2008, when it reached a
record 1.4 trillion yen, according to data compiled by the
prefecture’s government.  A spokesman for the Aichi government declined to comment on
the concession sale plan. The prefecture expects a response from
the central government by May on amending laws that restrict
private management of public roads, one person said.  Concessions for the toll roads may last for about 30 years,
the people said. Buyers would be responsible for road
maintenance as well as toll collection and operating shops and
restaurants along the roads, one person said. The Aichi
government wants to attract bids from groups comprising local
and overseas investors, according to this person.  Under  Japan ’s current laws governing road construction and
improvement, private companies aren’t allowed to operate
tollways, according to a  report  by the Aichi prefectural
government’s concession study panel published on Dec. 27.  Airport Sale  The eight tollways generated a combined 8.9 billion yen of
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and goodwill
amortization in the financial year through March 31, 2012, the
December report showed.  Aichi’s attempt to sell road contracts follows state-owned
New Kansai International Airport Co.’s planned auction of rights
to operate two airports in  Osaka , which may raise as much as 1.2
trillion yen.  The airport operator has unveiled a plan to hire financial
advisers as early as in April for the sale, two people with
knowledge of the matter said last month. New Kansai expects to
start a global auction of the concession next year and aims to
complete a deal in 2015, according to one of the two people.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  