-- Korean Won Gains to One-Week High as Exporters Repatriate Income
-- B y   S e y o o n   K i m
-- 2013-03-26T01:16:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/korean-won-gains-to-one-week-high-as-exporters-repatriate-income.html
South Korea ’s won climbed to a one-
week high as exporters repatriated their income earned from
overseas.  Government bonds  were steady.  The economy expanded 0.3 percent in the fourth quarter,
less than initially estimated, increasing the case for stimulus
by the new government and underscoring concern that a weaker yen
will curb exports. The won extended gains from yesterday when it
appreciated the most in seven weeks after Cyprus reached a
tentative agreement on an international bailout.  “Exporters are repatriating their overseas income at the
end of the month, supporting the currency,” said Hong Seok
Chan, an analyst at Daishin Economic Research Institute in
 Seoul . “Still, concerns about Cyprus are keeping investors from
aggressive dollar sales, while foreign investors continue to
sell more Korean stocks than they are buying.”  The won rose 0.2 percent to 1,108.65 per dollar as of 9:53
a.m. in Seoul, and reached the highest since March 19, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. One-month implied volatility, a
measure of expected moves in the  exchange rate  used to price
options, dropped seven basis points, or 0.07 percentage point,
to 7.96 percent. Foreign investors were net sellers in the local
stock market for an eighth day yesterday, according to exchange
data. Against the yen, the won dropped 0.7 percent today and is
up 22 percent in the past six months.  Asian  stocks  fell, led by Japanese shares, as the yen
gained amid concern that Cyprus’s bank-restructuring plan will
be used as a template for other European nations, imperiling
bondholders and depositors. South Korea’s main Kospi Index was
little changed while the euro traded hear a four-month low.  Growth Worry  South Korea’s fourth-quarter GDP growth was lower than
January’s initial estimate of 0.4 percent expansion, the  Bank of
Korea  said today in Seoul. GDP increased 1.5 percent from a year
ago, the smallest gain since 2009.  The yen is weakening as monetary easing boosts the supply
of the currency, giving Japanese manufacturers of electronics
and cars an advantage over Korean rivals. South Korea’s Finance
Minister Hyun Oh Seok called on the Group of 20 nations to
discuss the “weak yen problem” in a March 23 press briefing.  The yield on South Korea’s 2.75 percent bonds due December
2015 stood at 2.58 percent, according to prices from Korea
Exchange Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seyoon Kim in Seoul at 
 skim7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  