-- Kuroda Wants to Achieve BOJ’s 2% Price Target in Two Years
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 2013-03-26T03:00:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/kuroda-wants-to-achieve-boj-s-2-price-target-in-two-years-1-.html
Haruhiko Kuroda said he wants 2
percent inflation in two years and pledged to buy more
 government bonds , underscoring the new  Bank of Japan (8301)  chief’s
efforts to accelerate an end to falling prices.  “Achieving the 2 percent inflation target in two years is
something that I have in my mind,” Kuroda said today in
Parliament. He said the BOJ may scrap a rule limiting the scale
of asset buying and consider purchasing more bonds with longer
maturities.  The comments spurred investors’ expectations for more
monetary easing, with the yen weakening and benchmark bond
yields falling to a near 10-year low. Analysts at banks from
JPMorgan Chase & Co. to Barclays Plc expect the BOJ to add
stimulus as soon as the next policy meeting on April 3-4.  The Japanese currency was 0.2 percent weaker at 94.31 per
dollar as of 11:18 a.m. in  Tokyo , extending its nearly nine
percent fall since the start of the year. The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock
Average  was 0.2 percent lower , while the yield on  Japan ’s 10-
year government bond touched 0.525 percent, the least since 
June 2003.  Kikuo Iwata, one of two new BOJ deputy governors, told
reporters last week that the central bank should commit to
achieving the target for consumer-price increases within two
years. He has suggested that the BOJ leadership should be
prepared to resign if they fail to meet that goal.  Ending Deflation  Kuroda, who took up his post last week, today reiterated
his pledge to do “whatever it takes” to end more than a decade
of deflation in Japan, saying that expectations for rising
prices would be positive for the world’s third-largest economy.  “It’s a strong pledge from a well-intended man, but I’m
not convinced it’s going to work,”  Stephen Roach , a senior
fellow at  Yale University  and former non-executive chairman for
Morgan Stanley in Asia, said in a Bloomberg Television interview
earlier today. “It’s going to take a lot more to bring Japan
out of its long slump than just another effort at quantitative
easing.”  The BOJ currently buys bonds, as well as exchange-traded
funds and other risk assets, through a fund targeted to reach 76
trillion yen ($805 billion) by the end of this year.  The BOJ has pledged to keep the value of its bond holdings,
excluding the asset-purchase fund, below the amount of cash in
circulation.  Consumer-price gains “will never reach 2 percent,”  Eisuke
Sakakibara , Kuroda’s direct predecessor as Japanese vice finance
minister in charge of currency policy in the 1990s, said in a
Bloomberg Television interview this month. “This deflation is
structural. It’s a result of the integration of the Japanese
economy with the rest of east  Asia  and it has taken place for
the last 20 years.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Scott Lanman at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net  