-- Naira Slides on Speculation Investors Reducing Bond Purchases
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2013-03-26T11:00:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/naira-slides-on-speculation-investors-reducing-bond-purchases.html
The naira slid for the first time
in four days against the dollar on speculation that foreign
investors have been reducing purchases of Nigerian bonds.  The currency of  Africa ’s second-biggest economy weakened
0.1 percent to 158.35 per dollar by 10:34 a.m. in Lagos, the
commercial capital, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
naira has retreated 1.4 percent this year. Yields on the
government’s local currency bonds due June 2019 climbed seven
basis points, or 0.07 percentage points, to 11.27 percent,
according to prices compiled by the Financial Markets Dealers
Association yesterday.  “We see a cooling of interest on the part of foreign
investors in these numbers,” Gregory Kronsten and Olubunmi Asaolu, London-based strategists at FBN Capital Ltd., wrote in
an e-mailed note to clients today.  “We suspect that the
cooling of interest reduced the inflows into the  interbank
market  and thereby boosted demand” at the central bank’s
foreign-exchange auctions, the strategists wrote.  The  Central Bank of Nigeria  sold  $580 million  to lenders
last week at two regular foreign-currency auctions, the most
since the week through July 4, 2012. The Abuja-based regulator
uses the sales to stabilize the naira as the cost of importing
refined fuel, which accounts for 70 percent of the local
gasoline market, increases dollar demand and puts pressure on
the currency. The bank sold $276.61 million yesterday.  The bank has enough reserves to defend the naira and “keep
it where we want,” Governor Lamido Sanusi said in a March 24
interview in Lagos.  Nigeria ’s foreign-currency  reserves  advanced
38 percent to $48.5 billion in the year through March 20.  Sanusi said he wants to keep the benchmark  interest rate 
unchanged at a record high even as more policy makers argue for
cuts. Three Monetary Policy Committee members voted for a
reduction last week, compared with two in January. Policy makers
have so far rejected calls from businesses and the government to
lower borrowing costs.  Yields on Nigeria’s $500 million of Eurobonds due January
2021 declined two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to
4.29 percent today.  Ghana ’s cedi was unchanged at 1.94 per dollar in Accra.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  