-- Najib Uses Public Humiliation With Graft Gallery: Southeast Asia
-- B y   B a r r y   P o r t e r   a n d   M a n i r a j a n   R a m a s a m y
-- 2013-03-27T08:10:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/najib-uses-public-humiliation-with-graft-gallery-southeast-asia.html
Malaysia ’s government is using
public humiliation in its war on graft as Prime Minister Najib Razak seeks to show voters that he’s getting tough on corruption
ahead of an election that may be held within weeks.  An online  gallery  shows the names and photographs of more
than 1,000 convicted offenders, including former Selangor state
Chief Minister Mohamad Khir Toyo, who was sentenced to a year in
jail in 2011.  Najib, 59, is trying to bolster his graft-fighting
credentials to counter criticism from the opposition that
companies from power producers to toll-road operators have
unfairly benefited from their ties to a government that has
ruled Malaysia since independence from Britain in 1957.  “The opposition will use corruption and financial
irregularities in  government spending  to try and help win the
election,”  Ibrahim Suffian , a political analyst at Merdeka
Center for Opinion Research, said by phone on March 15. “They
will present a picture of pervasive corruption in government,
including trying to link Najib himself.”  Najib’s National Front coalition is fighting to hold onto
power after winning the 2008 election by its narrowest margin in
more than five decades. The premier must dissolve parliament by
April 28, and the Election Commission is required to hold a vote
within 60 days.  Almost half of the people surveyed in a Merdeka Center poll
 published  last month said fighting graft is a more pressing
issue for the government than taming inflation or boosting
foreign investment. The survey of 1,021 voters was conducted
from Jan. 23 to Feb. 6 on the country’s peninsula and had a
margin of error of 3.07 percent.  Najib’s Support  The prime minister’s approval rating slid to 61 percent in
early February, the lowest level in 17 months, according to the
same survey. Support among ethnic Chinese voters, who make up
about a quarter of Malaysia’s 29 million people, held at 34
percent for a second month, the lowest since May 2009.  While Malaysia moved to 54th from 60th place among 176
countries in  Transparency International’s  Corruption Perceptions
Index last year, it was ranked last for bribery among 30
countries surveyed. About 3,000 executives from 30 countries
were asked whether they’d lost a contract in the past year
because competitors had paid a bribe. In Malaysia, 50 percent
said yes, the Berlin-based advocacy group said.  “Malaysia is a country where you need to grease palms to
win contracts,” James Chin, professor of political science at
the Malaysian campus of  Australia ’s  Monash University , said by
phone March 15. “People take it as a part of life.”  Roads, Power  Graft and excessive government spending waste about 20
billion ringgit ($6.5 billion) a year, opposition leader  Anwar Ibrahim  said in a March 8 interview.  Anwar, a former finance minister who served nine years in
jail on corruption and sodomy charges that he claims were
politically motivated, said government contracts for toll-roads
and power generation may be renegotiated if found to be flawed
should the opposition alliance wins power.  The government has made progress in its efforts to curb
graft, said D. Ravindran, the head of the anti-corruption
program at the state Performance Management and Delivery Unit,
which is known as  Pemandu .  Before Najib became prime minister in 2009, corruption
cases took about 8.5 years to complete, including appeals,
according to data supplied by the Department of Public
Prosecutions and the Malaysian Anti-Corruption Commission. The
target this year is to complete 70 percent of cases within one
year, according to the Chief Registrar’s Office of the Federal
Government Court.  “The prime minister went out to the world and said yes
there is corruption and I’m going to fix it,” Ravindran said on
March 15. “The backlog was immense.”  Transport Ministers  The highest-profile corruption cases include ongoing ones
involving two former transport ministers, Chan Kong Choy and
Ling Liong Sik, who were charged in the past three years with
cheating following cost overruns at a free-trade zone
development, and Khir Toyo, the former state minister. All three
have said they are innocent.  Government contracts are now published online and companies
that bid for projects are asked to sign integrity pacts. Closed-
circuit TV cameras have been installed at major customs and
immigration centers, and officials in key jobs are rotated to
reduce the potential for graft.  A Whistleblower Protection Act was passed in 2010, with
civil servants offered as much as 500 ringgit for reporting
corrupt acts that lead to prosecutions. To date, 98 people have
been offered protection, according to data provided by  Pemandu .  ‘Deterrence Effect’  Najib “believes that corruption at any level is a blot on
Malaysia’s reputation,” a government spokesman said in an e-
mailed statement to  Bloomberg News . “A failure to eradicate it
will harm our democratic and economic progress.”  Publishing details of offenders online has a “deterrence
effect,” said Abu Kassim Mohamed, head of the  MACC , adding that
the site is monitored by immigration officials in  China  and
 Singapore  and used by the U.S. to assess visa applications.  The MACC’s reputation was harmed in 2009 when an opposition
political aide fell from a 14th-floor window at its Kuala Lumpur
offices after being questioned as a witness in the alleged
misuse of public funds. A royal commission of inquiry found that
the man was driven to commit suicide by “aggressive”
interrogation. A customs officer investigated separately two
years later was found dead in the same building minutes after
being left alone in a room.  MACC has since installed CCTVs and window grills at many of
its offices, Abu Kassim said.  ‘Money Politics’  The commission recommended allowing MACC to issue notices
to public officeholders seen as living beyond their means, and
to impose a cooling-off period for retiring civil servants
before they can work for private companies.  “The issue of governance is key,” said Anwar, who was
deputy prime minister in the ruling alliance and now leads the
opposition coalition. “If you start by having an effective
procurement system, I can tell you we would save billions. I
know from my experience as finance minister.”  Anwar, 65, was sacked in September 1998 and sentenced to
nine years in jail for sodomy and misusing his position to
interfere with police investigations of his sexual conduct. He
was released in 2004 after Malaysia’s highest court overturned
his conviction for sex with another man.  In government, the coalition would tackle “leakages,”
corruption and excessive spending to help narrow the  budget
deficit  by two percentage points in the first year, he said.  “By making corruption an issue, they will win more
seats,” Wan Saiful Wan Jan, chief executive officer of the
Institute for Democracy and Economic Affairs, said Feb. 14.  The opposition debated implementing an amnesty for some
past corrupt misdeeds, before excluding it from its manifesto
because of concern it may send the wrong signal to voters.  “It’s not written off,” Rafizi Ramli, strategic director
at Anwar’s People’s Justice Party, said by phone on March 15.
“It’s something to be decided after the election, once we get
into government.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Barry Porter in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net ;
Manirajan Ramasamy in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rmanirajan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Klemming at 
 lklemming@bloomberg.net  