-- Nasdaq, Libor, Rajaratnam, ‘Pay for Delay’: Compliance
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 2013-03-26T12:40:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/nasdaq-libor-rajaratnam-pay-for-delay-compliance.html
Regulators cleared  Nasdaq OMX Group
Inc.’s (NDAQ)  plan to pay $62 million to compensate brokers for its
mishandling of  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s public debut, dealing a defeat to
Wall Street firms that say they lost many times that amount.  The Securities and Exchange Commission  approved  Nasdaq’s
request to change its rules and expand the compensation pool for
member firms in the May 18 initial public offering. The funds
will go to traders who lost money after a design flaw in the
exchange’s computers delayed Facebook’s open and left them
confused about how many shares they owned.  Nasdaq’s proposal was opposed by Citigroup Inc. and UBS AG,
which said in letters urging the SEC to reject it that losses
within their market-making units exceeded $62 million. Nasdaq,
balancing its role as an organization with legal immunity for
technology breakdowns with its obligations to members, said the
pool covers “objective, discernible” losses suffered by
brokers.  While agreeing the proposal won’t pay all purported losses,
the SEC said it provides “significantly more compensation for
eligible claims, outside of litigation, than would otherwise be
available,” according to its order. Under existing rules,
Nasdaq’s liability for losses related to computer malfunctions
is $3 million, and may have been as low as $500,000 in the
Facebook case, the SEC said in its order.  The pricing of the first public transaction on May 18, a
trade known as the IPO cross, took a half-hour longer than
Nasdaq planned because of technical malfunctions. In May, Nasdaq
OMX Chief Executive Officer  Robert Greifeld  acknowledged “poor
design” in software put the opening auction into a loop that
delayed its completion.  Nasdaq’s handling of the Facebook IPO may still end up in
court. In approving the rule change needed to accommodate the
payouts, the SEC said the question of whether Nasdaq is entitled
to regulatory immunity in its handling of the offering is
outside the scope of the decision. Nasdaq has made releasing it
from legal liability a condition for receiving compensation.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  Libor Oversight to Be Handed to New U.K. Finance Regulator  Regulatory oversight of Libor rates will be handed to the
U.K. Financial Conduct Authority on April 1, under rules meant
to restore credibility to the tainted benchmark.  The measures will ensure that whatever group eventually
takes responsibility for setting the London interbank offered
rate must corroborate submissions and monitor suspicious
conduct, the Financial Services Authority said in a statement
yesterday. The administrators of the rate and banks that
participate will have to appoint a person approved by the
regulator to oversee compliance.  Libor, used to set rates for more than $300 trillion of
securities, is being overhauled after three lenders were fined
for attempting to manipulate the benchmark and more than a dozen
other lenders are still being investigated.  “These new rules today should help restore that faith and
bring integrity back to Libor,” said Martin Wheatley, the chief
executive officer-designate of the FCA, which will replace the
FSA on April 1.  Wheatley carried out a review at the request of Chancellor
of the Exchequer  George Osborne .  Barclays Plc (BARC) , UBS AG and Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc have been fined more than $2.5
billion by U.S. and U.K. regulators for manipulating the rate.  The U.K. government said in October that it planned to
implement Wheatley’s recommendations “in full,” and to make it
a criminal offense for those who misreport it and give
regulators the power to oversee the setting of the rate.  Under the new rules, banks must also develop clear conflict
of interest policies, the regulator said.  Dijsselbloem Says Euro Troubled Lenders Must Fend for Themselves  Dutch Finance Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem, who committed
taxpayer funds to take over  SNS Reaal NV (SR)  last month, said
troubled lenders in the euro area must now fend for themselves
as part of future euro rescues.  Dijsselbloem, who leads the group of 17 euro finance
ministers, said imposing losses on depositors and bondholders
must be part of the bailout toolkit after such measures were
taken to avoid default in Cyprus.  If ailing banks can’t raise funds, “then we’ll talk to the
shareholders and the bondholders, we’ll ask them to contribute
in recapitalizing the bank, and if necessary the uninsured
deposit holders,” Dijsselbloem said.  Dijsselbloem issued a statement after his comments roiled
markets already bracing for the potential of capital flight. The
Eurogroup decided the 10 billion-euro ($12.9 billion) bailout
for Cyprus will require levies of as much as 40 percent on bank
deposits above 100,000 euros.  “Cyprus is a specific case with exceptional challenges
which required the bail-in measures we have agreed upon
yesterday,” he said in the later statement. “Programs are
tailor-made to the situation of the country concerned and no
models or templates are used.”  The Cyprus approach contrasts with the Feb. 1 rescue of
Dutch lender SNS, which will cost taxpayers 3.7 billion euros
and subordinated bondholders their investments.  The Dutch minister’s emphasis on national solutions come as
he and his counterparts build a European banking union that
provides for central oversight and the potential for
recapitalization of banks by bailout funds to break the vicious
circle of financial-sector and sovereign debt.  For more, click here.  Bank Regulators Chase 12% Swedish Capital Floor  Swedish bank capital requirements, among the world’s
strictest, may now be setting the minimum standard for
regulators across the Nordic region.  Norway proposed raising reserve requirements last week to
match levels in neighboring Sweden, as regulators show signs of
converging in a race to the top.  Capital rules won’t work unless they’re the same across
borders, said  Christian Clausen , president of the European
Banking Federation and chief executive officer at Stockholm-
based  Nordea Bank AB. (NDA)  As banks with the highest regulatory
buffers enjoy lower funding costs, the head of the industry’s
biggest association in Europe has argued that the benefits of
converging up may outweigh the costs of setting aside extra
reserves.  Investors have rewarded banks with bigger buffers against
losses. It costs about 25 basis points less to insure against
losses on senior notes issued by Nordea than it does for
equivalent securities sold by Deutsche Bank AG, using five-year
credit default swaps. Handelsbanken default-swaps trade about 40
basis points lower.  Norway, which is trying to avert a housing bubble after
property prices and private debt soared to records, will target
core capital requirements of 10 percent by July next year, up
from the current 9 percent, the Oslo-based Finance Ministry said
on March 22. For systemically important banks, the target will
rise to 11 percent in 2015 and 12 percent in 2016. A proposed
counter-cyclical buffer of as much as 2.5 percent could also be
added, the ministry said.  Norway has also proposed raising risk weights on mortgage
loans to as high as 35 percent, exceeding the 15 percent level
proposed by Swedish regulators.  In neighboring Sweden, regulators have told their banks to
target minimum capital buffers equivalent to 12 percent of their
risk-weighted assets by 2015. Lenders must meet a 10 percent
minimum requirement this year.  For more, click here.  Dark Pools Hamper Market Efficiency, Should Be Avoided, ASX Says  Dark pools reduce efficiency by dividing markets and should
be avoided unless there’s a good reason, such as block trades,
to use them, said  ASX Ltd. (ASX)  Chief Executive Officer Elmer Funke
Kupper.  New rules to be enforced in May will require trades done in
dark pools, broker-operated private venues that don’t display
orders publicly, to achieve a better price than public venues. A
study by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission
released this month proposed that where price formation
deteriorates due to dark-pool trading, there should be a trigger
to implement a minimum-size threshold for orders.  ASX’s main Australian exchange handled 67 percent of trades
of shares listed on the  S&P/ASX 200 Index (AS51)  in February while its
dark pool, Centre Point, handled 3.7 percent, according to
Fidessa Group Plc.  In the U.S., a Rosenblatt Securities Inc. report tracking
19 venues showed dark pools accounted for a record 14.3 percent
of U.S. equity volume in January.  U.K. FSA to Gamble on Low Capital for New Banks in Last Proposal  The U.K.’s  Financial Services Authority  plans to cut in
half both the time it takes startup banks to get approval and
the amount of capital they must hold, in a proposal due today.  The Prudential Regulation Authority, which takes over bank
supervision from the FSA next week, will let new lenders operate
with a capital ratio as low as 4.5 percent, the minimum allowed
under global standards, in an effort to revive banking
competition.  The measures, the last from the FSA, will also include a
plan to cut the time new banks have to wait for approval from
one year to as little as six months, a person familiar with the
plans said.  Britain’s four biggest banks -- Barclays Plc, Lloyds
Banking Group Plc, HSBC Holdings Plc and Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc -- account for almost three-quarters of the market for
checking accounts, according to the Office of Fair Trading, and
new entrants, such as Metro Bank Plc, have struggled to make
inroads into the mortgage market. Chancellor of the Exchequer
George Osborne has pledged the government would make it quicker
and easier for new players to get approval.  The FSA will be disbanded on April 1 and be replaced by the
PRA and the Financial Conduct Authority, which will oversee
markets and prosecute financial crime. The FCA also has a
mandate to improve competition in the banking industry.  The measures -- known as Basel III and scheduled to be
fully implemented globally by 2019 -- will set the minimum core
capital for banks at 4.5 percent of their assets, weighted for
risk. So-called systemically important banks must maintain
capital ratios of between 8.5 percent and 10 percent under the
Basel rules.  Compliance Action  Rengan Rajaratnam Pleads Not Guilty to Insider Charges  Rengan Rajaratnam, the younger brother of imprisoned hedge-
fund founder  Raj Rajaratnam , pleaded not guilty to charges that
he took part in an insider-trading scheme tied to his brother’s
fund, Galleon Group LLC.  Rajaratnam, 42, was indicted last week by a federal grand
jury for allegedly conspiring with his brother to trade on
material nonpublic information about  Clearwire Corp. (CLWR)  and
 Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD)  He entered his plea yesterday before
U.S. District Judge Naomi Reice Buchwald in Manhattan federal
court.  Rajaratnam was taken into custody by agents of the Federal
Bureau of Investigation the morning of March 24 at 6:30 when he
arrived at New York’s John F. Kennedy International Airport on a
flight from Brazil. His lawyer Vinoo Varghese said Rajaratnam
first learned about the indictment from a story on the Wall
Street Journal’s website.  “We contacted the government and told them Mr. Rengan
Rajaratnam would voluntarily return to the U.S.,” Varghese told
the judge. “He has clearly gone above and beyond to prove his
desire to face these charges,” even offering to pay for the
plane tickets for the FBI agents to return with him, Varghese
said at yesterday’s hearing.  Prosecutors agreed to release Rajaratnam on $1 million
bond, citing his voluntary return to the U.S. The bond will be
secured by $500,000 in cash and property.  Prosecutors alleged that Rengan Rajaratnam, while working
as a fund manager at Galleon, made almost $1.2 million from
trades that occurred in 2008 based on tips provided by his
brother and his Rolodex of insiders. He was implicated during
his brother’s trial, where wiretapped conversations between the
two men were played in court.  A parallel insider-trading lawsuit filed by the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission against Rengan Rajaratnam
described a conspiracy that allegedly began in 2006 and lasted
until 2008.  Rajaratnam reaped more than $3 million in illicit gains for
Galleon and his proprietary account, the SEC alleged. The SEC
said its investigation is continuing. The case was assigned to
U.S. District Judge  John Koeltl .  The criminal case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 13-cr-00211, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan); the
civil case is SEC v. Rajaratnam, 13-cv-01894, Southern District
of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  New York Seeks Approval to Finish $410 Million Merkin Settlement  New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman asked a federal
judge for permission to complete a $410 million settlement with
J. Ezra Merkin, using his law enforcement powers to compensate
the former Bernard Madoff investor’s victims.  Madoff brokerage liquidator  Irving Picard , who seeks to
collect $500 million from Merkin for different investors, is
trying to block the deal. Schneiderman has argued that Picard
has no claim to the settlement money and lacks power as a
bankruptcy trustee to stop the state from enforcing the people’s
legal rights.  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff began a hearing in Manhattan
federal court yesterday by asking the parties to address the
state’s argument that Picard had waited too long to try to block
its suit. David Ellenhorn, a lawyer from Schneiderman’s office,
told Rakoff that investors refrained from bringing their own
claims against Merkin in reliance on the attorney general’s
suit.  Investors in Merkin’s hedge funds lost more than $1.2
billion in the Madoff fraud, New York has said. Madoff, arrested
in 2008, is serving 150 years in prison for the largest Ponzi
scheme in U.S. history, which effaced an estimated $17 billion
of investors’ principal.  The combatants portray their deadlocked fight as a clash
between state law, governing a top law enforcer, and bankruptcy
law, regulating trustees in fraud cases. Rakoff took over the
case from a bankruptcy judge to decide if Schneiderman can
complete the deal with Merkin.  Picard has said that only he can sue investors who
allegedly participated in Madoff’s fraud, compensating brokerage
customers whose claims he has authorized. New York sued Merkin
to pay investors in his hedge funds who wouldn’t get paid by
Picard because they weren’t Madoff customers. Schneiderman is
trying to complete the settlement of that suit.  The case is Picard v. Schneiderman, 12-cv-06733, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  AstraZeneca Settles Crestor U.S. Patent Case With Actavis  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) , the U.K.’s second-biggest drugmaker,
agreed to settle a lawsuit against generic manufacturer  Actavis
Inc. (ACT)  that alleged violation of the patent on the company’s best-
selling Crestor cholesterol treatment.  The agreement allows Actavis and partner Egis Nyrt. to
begin selling a copy of Crestor on May 2, 2016, London-based
AstraZeneca said in a statement yesterday. Actavis will pay
AstraZeneca a fee of 39 percent of net sales until the end of
pediatric exclusivity on July 8, 2016. Crestor had sales of
$6.25 billion last year.  AstraZeneca won an appeals-court ruling in December that
blocked generic versions of the drug in the U.S. until July
2016. Shionogi & Co. is also part of the settlement agreement,
the complete terms of which were not disclosed.  The generic product still must be approved by the U.S. Food
and Drug Administration, and Actavis, which changed its name
from Watson in November, has made no decision regarding its
release, the company said in a statement.  Ex-Calpers CEO Buenrostro Will Plead Not Guilty, Lawyer Says  Federico Buenrostro, former chief executive officer of
California Public Employees’ Retirement System, will plead not
guilty to charges he conspired to trick the pension fund into
paying millions of dollars to a placement agent, his lawyer
said.  Buenrostro, 64, faces conspiracy and other charges for
allegedly helping to create false documents so  Alfred Villalobos 
could garner $14 million in fees for arranging a $3 billion
Calpers investment into funds managed by  Apollo Global
Management LLC. (APO)  Villalobos was also charged.  William Portanova, Buenrostro’s attorney, said in an
interview yesterday his client will plead not guilty and defend
himself against the charges in federal court in San Francisco.
Buenrostro appeared at a hearing yesterday about the terms of
his bail. He is free on a $500,000 unsecured bond. U.S.
Magistrate Judge Nathanael Cousins upheld the amount and
released Buenrostro from electronic monitoring.  His next scheduled court appearance is May 8.  The case is U.S. v. Villalobos, 13-cr-00169, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of California (San Francisco).  Boeing Moves Closer to Battery Fix Approval With 787 Flight  Boeing Co. (BA)  planned a flight yesterday of the 787 Dreamliner
to test a proposed fix for lithium-ion battery systems that
overheated on two separate aircraft earlier this year and led to
the plane’s grounding in January.  Boeing said the “functional check flight” would last two
hours to validate all systems on the plane, including changes to
the batteries, which feature an enclosure that prevents fire and
modifications to the charger. The flight will be followed by one
certification demonstration flight “in the coming days” that
will show the new battery systems function properly, Boeing said
in an e-mailed statement.  Yesterday’s flight was made with a Boeing-owned airplane
built for LOT Polish Airlines SA and took off and landed at
Paine Field in Everett, Washington, the Chicago-based company
said. The functional check flight is a step toward winning
Federal Aviation Administration approval to get the 787 back in
operation.  Anheuser-Busch Discloses India Foreign Corruption Probe by SEC  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI) ’s India joint venture is being
investigated by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission for
possible violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.  “We have been informed by the SEC that it is conducting an
investigation into our affiliates in India, including our non-
consolidated Indian joint venture, InBev Indian International
Private Ltd., and whether certain relationships of agents and
employees were compliant with the FCPA,” the company said in a
regulatory  filing  yesterday. “We are investigating the conduct
in question and cooperating with the SEC.”  The investigation is at an early stage and no claims have
been asserted by regulators,  Marianne Amssoms , an AB InBev
spokeswoman, said yesterday in an e-mail. AB InBev’s market
share in India is about 2 percent, with operations run by an
Indian subsidiary, Crown Beers India, and a joint venture with
RKJ Group for local production, in which AB InBev holds a
minority stake.  “We have an extensive compliance program which includes
robust policies, training, and an employee hot line,” Amssoms
also wrote.  Supreme Court News  Drugmaker ‘Pay for Delay’ Accords Questioned by High Court  U.S. Supreme Court justices suggested they will open
drugmakers to suits over so-called pay-for-delay agreements,
hinting at a ruling that would rewrite the rules governing the
release of generic medicines.  Hearing arguments yesterday in Washington, the justices
voiced skepticism about the accords, which the Federal Trade
Commission says cost buyers as much as $3.5 billion a year. The
antitrust agency says brand-name drug companies are paying
generic rivals to forestall low-priced versions of popular
treatments.  The accords benefit the companies “to the detriment of
consumers,” Justice Elena Kagan said.  The FTC says 40 more pay-for-delay accords were struck in
fiscal 2012 alone. Bayer AG,  Merck & Co. (MRK)  and  Bristol-Myers
Squibb Co. (BMY)  units already have faced lawsuits. Companies say the
accords are legitimate patent settlements.  Several justices suggested they weren’t comfortable with
the FTC’s proposed test to determine whether the accords are
anticompetitive. The antitrust agency says courts should start
with the presumption that a payment from a brand-name drugmaker
to a generic rival is illegal. Justice Stephen Breyer called
that test “rigid.”  Justice Anthony Kennedy suggested that brand-name
drugmakers at least shouldn’t be allowed to pay generic
companies more than the generic companies could expect to get by
winning patent litigation.  The FTC and its allies don’t have an issue with settlements
that merely set the date for generic entry. A payment is
different, they say. If a brand-name drugmaker with $100 million
in annual sales can pay a generic rival $20 million to wait an
extra year, both companies come out ahead -- at the expense of
purchasers, the FTC argues.  The case, which the court will resolve by June, is Federal
Trade Commission v. Watson Pharmaceuticals, 12-416.  For more, click here.  Affirmative Action Review Expanded by U.S. Supreme Court  The U.S. Supreme Court expanded its scrutiny of affirmative
action in higher education, agreeing to review a Michigan law
that would bar public universities from considering race or
gender as an admissions factor.  The high court already is considering whether the
University of Texas is violating the constitutional guarantee of
equal protection with its affirmative action program.  The justices now will review a federal appeals court’s
conclusion that a voter-approved amendment to Michigan’s
constitution impermissibly limits the political rights of racial
minorities. The initiative was a response to a 2003 Supreme
Court decision that allowed race-based admissions in a case
involving the University of Michigan Law School.  At stake are policies that have been a fixture on U.S.
campuses since the 1960s. All but a handful of the nation’s
selective colleges and professional schools consider race as
they seek to ensure a diverse student body.  The decision to take up the Michigan case at this stage
marks an unusual move for the court, which typically defers
action on appeals that raise similar questions, as a ruling is
expected in the Texas case next three months.  One possibility is that the court might hold off ruling in
the Texas case and consider the two cases together in the next
term.  The Michigan law was immediately challenged in court by a
civil rights advocacy group, known as the Coalition to Defend
Affirmative Action, Integration and Immigrant Rights and Fight
for Equality by Any Means Necessary.  The group argued in court papers that the Cincinnati-based
6th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals correctly concluded that
racial minorities had been put at a disadvantage compared with
other groups. The 6th Circuit struck down the measure on an 8-7
vote.  The case is Schuette v. Coalition to Defend, 12-682, U.S.
Supreme Court (Washington).  Tax-Shelter Penalty Gets U.S. High Court Review in McCombs Case  The U.S. Supreme Court will use a case involving
billionaire Billy Joe “Red” McCombs to decide whether the
federal government can impose hundreds of millions of dollars in
penalties for the use of abusive tax shelters.  The justices yesterday said they will hear an Obama
administration appeal of a ruling favoring McCombs, the co-
founder of  Clear Channel Communications Inc. (CCMO)  and former owner of
the Minnesota Vikings and San Antonio Spurs.  The case will test one aspect of the Internal Revenue
Service’s effort to recoup billions of dollars from high-income
taxpayers who set up shelters in the 1990s and 2000s.  At issue is the scope of a provision that lets the IRS
impose a 40 percent penalty on people who understate their
capital-gains tax liability by inflating their “basis” -- that
is, the cost of acquiring property that is later sold.  A federal appeals court said the penalty provision doesn’t
apply when the Internal Revenue Service treats the entire
transaction as a sham, as it did in the case of McCombs and his
business partner, Gary Woods.  The two men used a tax-avoidance strategy known as COBRA in
an effort to limit taxes in 1999, when McCombs was expecting
high income because of the expansion of the National Football
League. Under COBRA, taxpayers used paper losses to offset real
gains -- and reduce their tax liability.  The government said McCombs and Woods, acting on advice
from the accounting firm Ernst & Young LLP, were able to claim
$45 million in losses from transactions that actually cost them
only $1.37 million.  The Supreme Court will take up the case during the nine-
month term that starts in October.  The case is U.S. v. Woods, 12-562, U.S. Supreme Court
(Washington).  Interviews/Videos  Bernanke Doesn’t See ‘Beggar-Thy-Neighbor’ Policies  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  speaks about
central bank monetary policies and global exchange rates.  Bank of England Governor Mervyn King, UBS AG Chairman  Axel
Weber , former U.S. Treasury Secretary  Lawrence Summers  and
International Monetary Fund Chief Economist Olivier Blanchard
also speak at the London School of Economics.  To watch the video, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  