-- Nestle Joins Mars in Vow to Aid Female Farmers After Criticism
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2013-03-26T12:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/nestle-joins-mars-in-vow-to-aid-female-farmers-after-criticism.html
Nestle SA (NESN)  and Mars Inc. vowed to
work to improve the well-being of women cocoa farmers after an
Oxfam International report detailed shortcomings among food
companies in fostering human rights and sustainability.  Nestle and Mars, which together control  27 percent  of the
world chocolate market, have assured Oxfam they will conduct
assessments within a year on the well-being of women among its
raw-material suppliers in Ivory Coast, the world’s biggest cocoa
producer, Oxfam said today in a news release. The companies will
then take action to improve women’s livelihoods and work with
other organizations to address gender inequality across the
industry, it said.  “It makes sense for us to be a part of an intentional
approach to empowering women,” Barry Parkin, head of global
chocolate procurement and sustainability operation for McLean,
Virginia-based Mars, said in a statement. Nestle, based in
Vevey,  Switzerland , said it’s aiming to increase opportunities
for women in its cocoa supply chain.  Greater corporate concern for human rights, endorsed by the
 United Nations  in 2011, has been urged by advocacy groups as
businesses expand operations in sub-Saharan  Africa  and other
developing regions. Companies including  ConAgra Foods Inc. (CAG)  and
 Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  have joined initiatives such as the
 Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil  and created certifications
such as  Fair Trade  to monitor business practices and encourage
improvements.  Supporting Women  Nestle, the maker of KitKat and Butterfinger candy bars,
said it’s been looking at ways to strengthen its efforts to
support women in its supply chains since Oxfam’s report in
February. Mars, which makes Snickers and Three Musketeers,
“knows firsthand how important women are to creating a better
quality of life for the cocoa communities we work in,” Parkin
said in a statement.  “Only actions can create real and lasting change,” Alison
Woodhead, manager for Oxfam’s Behind the Brands Campaign, which
is organizing protests against company practices, said in the
organization’s statement. “We will continue to hold both
companies to account and expect them to keep their promises.”  Oxfam, a U.K.-based humanitarian advocacy group, gave major
food businesses including  Associated British Foods Plc (ABF)  and
 Kellogg Co. (K)  failing grades in a  report  last month examining
corporate policies in seven areas: the land rights of small
farmers; exploitation of women, farmers and workers;  climate
change ; business transparency; and water use. Companies were
rated on a scale of 1 to 10.  Company Scores  Nestle, which had the highest overall score of 38 out of a
possible 70 in the study, scored 4 on women’s issues, while
Mars, fifth overall, received a 1. None of the 10 companies
profiled at the time knew or were trying to find out how many
women farmers are involved in their supply chains or what kind
of farming activities they are engaged in, Oxfam said.  After visiting  Ivory Coast  farms, Oxfam representatives
found women, who do much of the work on cocoa farms while owning
few of them, to be underpaid and left out of leadership
positions.  The 10 businesses studied in Oxfarm’s February are among
the top producers in the global  food-and-beverage  industry,
which Istanbul-based consultancy  IMAP Inc.  values at almost $7
trillion. Nestle, the world’s largest food company, last year
had revenues of $92.2 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  