-- New South Wales Sells Record A$2.5 Billion Floating Notes
-- B y   G a r f i e l d   R e y n o l d s
-- 2013-03-26T02:18:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/new-south-wales-sells-record-a-2-5-billion-floating-notes.html
New South  Wales  raised A$2.5
billion ($2.6 billion) in the biggest-ever sale of floating-rate
notes by an Australian state, tapping demand from banks seeking
to increase their holdings of liquid assets.  The three-year securities will pay eight basis points more
than the bank-bill swap rate, New South Wales Treasury Corp.
said on its website. Investors submitted bids for A$3.4 billion
of the debt, according to the funding arm.  Australian lenders boosted holdings of state government
bonds to a record A$70.7 billion as of Sept. 30, federal
government data show. Banks are favoring floating notes after
regulations introduced in the wake of the 2008 global credit
crunch drove up costs for Australian financial companies to hold
fixed-rate bonds, according to  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)   “We will probably be seeing more of these issues from
state governments going forward, given the strong demand for
floating notes coming from domestic balance sheets,” said
Timothy Jung, an Australian rates strategist at Westpac in
Sydney. “Demand for floating-rate notes also may be increasing
as anticipation grows that the  Reserve Bank  of  Australia  may
have finished cutting benchmark  interest rates .”  The RBA will hold the overnight cash-rate target at 3
percent on April 2, after lowering it by 1.75 percentage points
since Nov. 1, 2011, according to all 28 analysts surveyed by
 Bloomberg News  last week. Traders estimate a 51 percent chance
policy makers will hold borrowing costs unchanged through
September, swaps data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Swap Costs  Regulatory changes have driven up costs to swap fixed rates
for floating ones, reducing the attractiveness of fixed-rate
notes, Jung said. Banks prefer to receive floating rates on
their assets to match their income streams from variable-rate
mortgages.  Basel III rules that require banks to hold sufficient
liquid assets to tide them over in a crisis will come into force
at the start of 2015, John Laker, chairman of the  Australian
Prudential Regulation Authority , reiterated March 22 in a speech
in  Melbourne .  “This is the first time we have done such a large
floating-rate note,” Tim Hext, the head of funding at Sydney-
based Treasury Corp., said yesterday after announcing plans to
sell at least A$1 billion of the April 8, 2016, notes. “We
expect to see this market develop on strong demand from mostly
domestic banks for this sort of product.”  South Australia  raised A$2 billion last month selling
floating-rate notes that mature in May 2016. Those securities
pay 20 basis points above the quarterly bank bill swap rate,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  New South Wales had raised slightly more than A$5 billion
in long-term funding this financial year prior to today’s sale,
according to Hext. The funding arm had said Dec. 20 it expected
to secure about A$6.9 billion in the 12 months ending June 30.  The state had A$59.7 billion of bonds outstanding before
today’s sale, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Garfield Reynolds in Sydney at 
 greynolds1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  