-- Next Media Suspends Trading Ahead of Sale Deadline
-- B y   D e b r a   M a o   a n d   L u l u   Y i l u n   C h e n
-- 2013-03-26T02:50:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/next-media-suspends-trading-ahead-of-sale-deadline-correct-.html
(Corrects currency conversion in first paragraph.)  Next Media Ltd. (282) , controlled by
billionaire Jimmy Lai, suspended trading in  Hong Kong  today a
day ahead of the deadline to complete the NT$17.5 billion ($586
million) sale of its  Taiwan  print and TV assets.  The deal may fall through because  Want Want China Holdings
Ltd. (151)  Chairman Tsai Eng-meng, whose son is one of the buyers for
Next Media’s Taiwan print business, wants to reduce the stake
purchase to avoid antitrust queries into the family’s media
ownership, the Taipei-based Economic Daily News reported today.  The latest sales agreement marks Lai’s third attempt to
divest most of his Taiwan assets after losses at his television
business dragged down Next Media’s earnings. The Tsais’  China 
Times Group controls newspapers and TV channels, and they are
one of four investors that agreed in November to buy Next
Media’s print business.  Trading will be suspended “pending the issue of an
announcement,” Next Media said today in its statement.
Spokesman Mark Simon couldn’t immediately comment.  Next Media’s  shares  have plunged 16 percent this year,
compared with the 1.8 percent decline on Hong Kong’s benchmark
Hang Seng Index.  Lai’s Apple Daily and the Tsais’ China Times will have a
combined newspaper market share exceeding 45 percent, according
to National Chung Cheng University’s Kuang Chung-Hsiang, raising
regulatory concerns. The elder Tsai’s $2.4 billion purchase of
cable operator China Network Systems Co. is still subject to
approval from Taiwan’s broadcast regulator, which said Feb. 21
the purchaser hadn’t fulfilled its conditions.  Tycoon Buyers  Calls to Want Want China Times President Tsai Shao-Chung’s
office went unanswered today.  The other buyers for Next Media’s print assets are William
Wong of the Formosa Plastics Group, Chinatrust Charity
Foundation Chairman Jeffrey Koo Jr. and  Lung Yen Life Service
Corp. (5530)  Chairman Li Shih-tsung. Next Media said it would dispose
of the print business for NT$16 billion, with Wong’s company
taking a 34 percent stake, Tsai’s 32 percent, Koo’s 20 percent
and a company controlled by Li taking 14 percent.  The buyers had four months from the Nov. 27 date of the
purchase agreement to complete the transaction, according to a
Next Media statement on Dec. 12. Both buyers and seller have the
right to extend the deadline.  Another consortium will purchase the Taiwan television
assets for NT$1.5 billion, the company said.  Annual Losses  Next Media booked two annual losses due in part to its
Taiwan television and multimedia unit. The company in December
said it expects to book a HK$2.28 billion ($295 million) gain on
the disposals, and plans to distribute some of the proceeds as
dividends.  Next Media’s  Apple Daily  and Next Magazine are banned in
mainland China because of their anti-Beijing stance. Lai started
the Taiwan version of Next magazine in 2001, followed by Apple
Daily, known for celebrity gossip and graphic depictions of
violent crimes.  Lai said in a video clip posted on Next TV on Oct. 16 that
he had failed in Taiwan. His exit comes as business and
political ties improved between the island and China after
Taiwan President Ma Ying-jeou took office in May 2008.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Debra Mao in Taipei at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net ;
Lulu Yilun Chen in Hong Kong at 
 ychen447@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hwee Ann Tan at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net  