-- Nigeria’s Okah Sentenced to 24 Years in Jail for Terrorism
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d   a n d   T s h e p i s o   M o k h e m a
-- 2013-03-26T12:25:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/nigeria-s-okah-sentenced-to-24-years-in-jail-for-terrorism.html
A South African court sentenced
Nigerian militant leader  Henry Okah  to 24 years in jail after he
was found guilty of 13 counts of terrorism, including a bomb
attack that killed 12 people in the capital, Abuja.  Judge Neels Claassen delivered the sentence today in the
South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg, Phindi Louw,
spokeswoman for the National Prosecuting Authority, said in a
phone interview.  Okah was found guilty on Jan. 21 of planning car bomb
attacks in 2010 in Abuja, close to where President Goodluck Jonathan was celebrating Nigeria’s 50 years of independence.
South African law allows trials of alleged terrorists arrested
or resident in the country no matter where their acts were
committed.  The Abuja bombing was claimed by the Movement for the
Emancipation of the Niger Delta, the main rebel group in the
southern Niger River delta, which is home to the country’s
petroleum industry, Africa’s biggest.  Okah was sentenced to 12 years for the Abuja bombing and
another 12 years for a March 2010 bombing in the southern city
of Warri which MEND also claimed responsibility for, Louw said.
Okah was also sentenced to 10 years for threatening South Africa
and that term will run concurrently with the 12-year sentence
for the bombing in Abuja, she said.  MEND had threatened to attack the holdings of companies
including  MTN Group Ltd. (MTN) , Africa’s biggest mobile phone
operator, and  SacOil Holding Ltd. (SCL) , an oil and gas exploration
company, saying South African President Jacob Zuma is
interfering “in the legitimate fight for justice” in the Niger
River delta region.  Oil Revenue  Okah, who denies the charges, declined to testify. He said
his trial was unfair, because the Nigerian government blocked
about 20 witnesses from traveling to South Africa to give
evidence, he said in an interview Jan. 31.  “The judge made his decision based on what was before
him,” Okah said. “The problem is that my witnesses were
stopped from coming.”  Nigeria’s government accuses Okah of being the leader of
MEND, which says it was fighting for a greater share of oil
revenue for the region. Thousands of fighters have since dropped
their weapons and accepted a government amnesty.  While Okah denies being involved in the Abuja blasts and
yesterday described the claim that he leads MEND as
“ridiculous,” he has said he commands the support of many
armed groups in Nigeria’s oil region.  Hague-based  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , Irving, Texas-based
 Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  of San Ramon,  California ,  Total
SA (FP)  and  Eni SpA (ENI)  run joint ventures with the state-owned Nigerian
National Petroleum Corp. that pump more than 90 percent of the
nation’s oil.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net ;
Tshepiso Mokhema in Johannesburg at 
 tmokhema@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  