-- North Dakota Governor Signs Earliest U.S. Abortion Limit
-- B y   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z
-- 2013-03-26T18:47:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/north-dakota-governor-signs-nation-s-earliest-abortion-limit.html
North Dakota  Governor Jack Dalrymple signed a ban on abortions as early as six weeks into a
pregnancy, the narrowest window of any U.S. state and one he
said would test the boundaries of the Constitution.  The measure, which makes it a felony to perform a
nonemergency abortion after a fetal heartbeat can be detected,
is scheduled to take effect Aug. 1. Dalrymple, a 64-year-old
Republican, also signed a bill today making his state the first
to bar terminations because of genetic abnormalities, and
another that may shut the state’s sole abortion clinic by
requiring its doctors have admitting privileges at a local
hospital.  Abortion-rights advocates called the time limit the most
extreme and dangerous of any U.S. state. Supporters said the
time limit could lead to a direct challenge of the U.S. Supreme
Court decision that in 1973 gave women the right to terminate a
pregnancy until a fetus reaches viability outside the womb,
after about 24 weeks.  “Although the likelihood of this measure surviving a court
challenge remains in question, this bill is nevertheless a
legitimate attempt by a state legislature to discover the
boundaries of Roe v. Wade,” Dalrymple said in a statement. He
called on members of the Republican-dominated legislature to set
aside money for a long and costly court battle.  No Exceptions  The Center for Reproductive Rights said it would fight the
time limit on behalf of Red River Women’s Clinic in Fargo.  North Dakota is “now home to the most extreme restrictions
on women’s constitutionally protected reproductive rights in the
nation,” said Nancy Northup, president and chief executive
officer of the New York-based group, said in a statement.  The laws make no exceptions for rape or incest victims. At
six weeks, a fetus is typically smaller than a dime and many
women don’t yet know they’re pregnant, according to the  Mayo
Clinic  in Rochester,  Minnesota .  Next year, voters in the third-least populous state will
decide whether to amend their constitution with a so-called
personhood measure that could end the procedure entirely. The
proposed amendment, which lawmakers approved last week, would
establish that “the inalienable right to life of every human
being at any stage of development must be recognized and
protected.”  Approval would make North Dakota the first state with such
an amendment, which doctors said could bar some forms of
contraception and in-vitro fertilization and complicate end-of-
life care. Voters in Mississippi and  Colorado  have spurned such
proposals in recent years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Esmé E. Deprez in  New York  at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  