-- NRDC Seeks to Curb Leaky Faucets With Stricter Water-Meter Rules
-- B y   P e t e r   S .   G r e e n
-- 2013-03-26T21:37:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/nrdc-seeks-to-curb-leaky-faucets-with-stricter-water-meter-rules.html
More accurate meters would help
U.S. homeowners save some of the trillion gallons (3.8 trillion
liters) of water that’s lost annually to leaks, according to a
group of water utilities and the Natural Resources Defense
Council.  The NRDC and the utilities asked the American Water Works
Association, the industry’s largest trade group, to revise
accuracy standards for residential meters, according to an e-
mailed statement today.  Water meters commonly installed on new single-family homes
detect flows down to a quarter-gallon a minute, or 360 gallons a
day. More than 10 percent of U.S. homes have leaks of 90 gallons
a day or more, according to the Environmental Protection Agency.
Many of those leaks won’t be spotted by typical meters.  “The costs for leaks not captured by meters are passed on
to all customers and result in higher rates and more frequent
rate increases,” Tracy Quinn, an NRDC water-policy analyst,
said in the statement. “Stronger accuracy standards will lead
to the widespread installation of more accurate meters, and
major water savings will follow.”  More accurate meters would detect extended periods of low
water flow, often a tell-tale sign of leaks, said the NRDC, a
New York-based environmental group. Dripping faucets, running
toilets or leaky lawn-irrigation systems sometimes run for days
or months at levels that aren’t noticed by current meters.  The utilities involved include  American Water Works Co. (AWK) ,
the largest publicly traded U.S. water company, the  New York 
City Department of Environmental Protection and municipal water
utilities in Texas and  California .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter S. Green in New York at 
 psgreen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Randall Hackley at 
 rhackley@bloomberg.net  