-- Obama Inks 2013 Funding Bill Locking in Cuts He Opposes
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 2013-03-27T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/obama-inks-2013-funding-bill-locking-in-cuts-he-opposes.html
President  Barack Obama  signed into
law a catchall government-funding bill that ends the 2013 budget
fight and locks in $85 billion in spending cuts he opposes.  With Obama’s signature yesterday, day-to-day operations of
cabinet departments and federal agencies will continue without
interruption through Sept. 30, the end of the fiscal year. With
the automatic budget cuts known as sequestration taking effect,
the spending will amount to about $984 billion. The previous
funding authorization was due to expire today.  The across-the-board cuts usher in a new “age of
austerity,” said  Darrell West , director of the  Brookings
Institution , a Washington-based public policy group.  The spending reductions undercut Obama’s push to increase
funding for research, education and infrastructure, which he has
said are necessary to bolster economic security for middle-
income Americans. He continues to seek a deal with congressional
Republicans that would include raising revenue through taxes
along with making budget cuts.  “I don’t see how sequester, root-canal budgeting, co-
exists with what I think is a robust investment agenda,”  Jared Bernstein , former chief economist to Vice President  Joe Biden ,
said in a telephone interview March 25.  “The only way out is finding offsets,” which involves
cutting funds from one program to increase money for favored
projects, he said.  Seeking Repeal  White House press secretary  Jay Carney  said at a briefing
yesterday that “regular folks” are going to be harmed by the
sequestration, and that Obama wants it repealed. “He hopes
Republicans are going to go along with that,” Carney said.  Households are showing concern that the budget cuts will
hurt growth. The Conference Board’s  consumer confidence index 
slumped to 59.7 from a three-month high of 68 in February, data
from the New York-based private research group showed yesterday.  Other indicators show businesses are looking past the
budget battle. Bookings for goods meant to last at least three
years rose 5.7 percent, the most since September, after a 3.8
percent drop the prior month, the Commerce Department said
yesterday in  Washington . Sales of new homes in February capped
the best two months since 2008, and residential real-estate
prices rose in January by the most since June 2006.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  climbed 0.8 percent to
1,563.77 at the close in  New York , within two points of its
record. The benchmark has risen 9.6 percent this year.  Mandated Cuts  Congress mandated $1.2 trillion in across-the-board
spending cuts spread over nine years as part of a 2011 deal to
increase the U.S. debt limit. The cuts are intended to shrink
the federal  budget deficit , which has exceeded $1 trillion in
each of the past four years.  The reductions were intended to be so onerous that Congress
and the president wouldn’t let them occur and would come up with
a plan to replace them. Democrats and Republicans now disagree
over whether a substitute plan should include new  tax revenue .  The measure Obama signed yesterday leaves intact $85
billion in across-the-board budget cuts for this fiscal year of
5 percent to domestic agencies and 8 percent for the Defense
Department. It includes authority for some leeway to shift
funds.  Partisan bickering over debts, spending and taxes for
fiscal 2014, beginning Oct. 1, will resume after Congress
returns from a two-week break. For now, supporters of the
automatic cuts say they see victory.  ‘Conventional Wisdom’  “It’s turning conventional wisdom on its nose,” said
Mattie Duppler, director of budget and regulatory policy of
Americans for  Tax Reform , which supported sequestration.  “You’ve seen spending held flat, year over year, and now
it’s shrinking,” Duppler said. “Sequestration is going to
stick, it has a lot of traction.”  The funding bill that became law yesterday, known as the
“continuing resolution,” passed the House March 21 in a
318-109 vote and was approved by the Senate a day earlier,
73-26.  House Appropriations Committee Chairman Hal Rogers on March
21 called the vote a “remarkable” example of cross-party
cooperation.  “I’m proud of the fact that we were able to do all of
this, frankly, as smoothly as it has gone,” the Kentucky
Republican said. “We’ve proved that when we set our mind to it,
we can get complicated, hard things done and that’s what this
bill does.”  Funding Adjustments  Lawmakers made special adjustments in some critical areas,
because of the automatic budget cuts. The Senate shifted $55
million to prevent furloughs of government meat inspectors
triggered by the cuts, because meatpacking plants, such as  Tyson
Foods Inc. (TSN) , are barred from operating without them.  The new law, which runs more than 1,000 pages, orders the
Pentagon to continue a tuition-assistance program for the
military; adds $10 billion for the Defense Department to train
troops and maintain weapons; and boosts an Agriculture
Department nutritional assistance program for low-income mothers
by $250 million. Under budget cuts, the Women, Infants and
Children program had been reduced by about $350 million.  The  National Institutes of Health , the government’s medical
research arm, won a $71 million increase -- though it’s also
targeted for a $1.5 billion hit under the automatic cuts.  The law extends a pay freeze for federal workers, funds
restoration efforts of the Capitol’s cast-iron dome, one of the
oldest such structures in the world, and provides a one-time
$193,400 “bereavement payment” to the wife of the late Hawaii
Senator Daniel Inouye, a Democrat who died in December. The
Senate traditionally provides a year’s salary to the survivor of
a lawmaker who dies in office.  The bill is  H.R. 933 .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Faler in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  