-- Locusts in Sudan Seen by FAO as a Threat to Nile Valley Crops
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2013-03-26T17:26:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/locusts-in-sudan-seen-by-fao-as-a-threat-to-nile-valley-crops.html
Desert locusts hatching in northern
 Sudan  may pose a threat to Nile River valley crops in May,
according to Keith Cressman, senior locust forecasting officer
at the United Nations’ Food & Agriculture Organization.  Cressman, who was in northern Sudan from March 15 to 17,
saw immature locusts known as hoppers hatching and forming bands
along a 1,000-kilometer (621-mile) stretch of the Nile between
Dongola and Atbara, he said in e-mailed comments today.  Spraying as many hopper groups in Sudan as possible next
month will be “critical” to reduce the likelihood of swarms
forming, the FAO officer said. Swarms would be a  threat  to Nile
valley crops in the country and in neighboring Egypt, Africa’s
biggest grower of wheat and rice.  “There is a potential for a substantial problem to develop
in north Sudan in the coming months,” Cressman said. “There is
also sufficient time for another generation of breeding to
follow with swarms from that generation forming in about mid-
July along the Nile.”  Locusts swarming in July would probably move south to
“vast and partially insecure” summer breeding areas in central
Sudan, according to the FAO officer.  Desert locust infestations were reported this month in
 Egypt ,  Israel , Lebanon and Jordan after “good breeding” this
winter along the Sudan-Egypt border on the Red Sea coast,
Cressman said.  Small adult groups and swarms formed after vegetation dried
out in February, and some reached southern Israel and Jordan,
while individuals were spread around the coastal plains of
Israel and Lebanon, he said.  Plague Years  Desert-locust distribution can extend over 60 countries
during plague years,  covering  about 29 million square
kilometers, or about a fifth of the world’s land, according to
the FAO.  “We’re not in a resurgence or plague situation but it is
indeed unusual to see infestations in the eastern
Mediterranean,” with 2004 being the last time, Cressman said.
“The winter-breeding populations actually originated from an
outbreak at the end of last summer in the interior of Sudan.”  Adult desert locusts can eat their own weight in food
daily, according to the FAO. Egypt is  Africa ’s biggest wheat
grower, with expected output of 8.5 million metric tons in the
2012-13 season, according to the International Grains Council.  Swarms containing tens of millions of the insects can fly
as much as 150 kilometers a day, and a female locust can lay 300
eggs in her lifetime, according to the UN agency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  