-- Oklahoma Freeze Threatening Crop Damage to Wheat Hurt by Drought
-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 2013-03-26T15:10:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/oklahoma-freeze-threatening-crop-damage-to-wheat-hurt-by-drought.html
Freezing weather in  Oklahoma  may
have damaged wheat plants that already were hurt by the worst
drought since the 1930s.  Temperatures overnight dropped to 15 degrees Fahrenheit
(minus 9 Celsius) near Guymon, in the Oklahoma panhandle,
National Weather Service data show. The freeze may have hurt
wheat tillers, which are stems that emerge from the root of the
plant and produce grain, Telvent DTN said in a report.  Plants were susceptible to damage because there was little
or no snow cover to protect against freezing weather, said
Darrell Holaday, the president of Advanced Market Concepts.  “They had moisture a month ago, but the last two or three
weeks, it’s been dry,” Holaday said by telephone from Wamego,
 Kansas . “And their crops were further along. I think you
probably had some damage.”  Growers of hard-red winter wheat, used to make bread and
grown mostly in the southern Great Plains, may leave almost 24
percent of their crop unharvested this year because of the
drought, Futures International LLC said in an e-mail yesterday.
Farmers seeded 29.1 million acres with hard-red winter varieties
from September through November, Department of Agriculture data
show. Oklahoma is the second-biggest grower behind Kansas.  About 26 percent of the crop in  Oklahoma  was in good or
excellent condition as of March 24, up from 24 percent a week
earlier, according to the USDA. In Kansas, 29 percent of plants
earned top ratings, unchanged from a week earlier, the
government said in a report yesterday.  Damage Outlook  The extent of the damage from the overnight freeze probably
won’t be known until temperatures warm up and the plants again
try to grow later this week, Mark Hodges, the executive director
of Plains Grains Inc. in Stillwater, Oklahoma, said in a
telephone interview.  When the weather is below freezing for several hours, as it
was last night, the oldest stems are hurt the worst because they
were more developed, Hodges said. Damage from the drought in the
area reduced crop prospects, so the freeze may cut yields
further, he said.  “We didn’t have that many tillers to start with,” Hodges
said. “We didn’t come into the spring with the crop we would’ve
liked, and we didn’t have the root system we wanted to have. We
needed every tiller we could get, and I suspect several areas
lost some. I’m not suggesting we lost the entire crop, but we
did lose some.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in Chicago at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  