-- Homebuilder Bonds Fall in High-Rise Push: Mexico Credit
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   V e r b r i g g h e   a n d   J o n a t h a n   L e v i n
-- 2013-03-26T14:31:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/homebuilder-bonds-fall-in-high-rise-push-mexico-credit.html
Mexican President Enrique Pena Nieto is creating a windfall for government bondholders while
saddling investors in the homebuilding industry with the worst
losses in the country’s debt market.  Dollar-denominated bonds issued by the nation’s three-
biggest homebuilders have plunged an average of 28 cents on the
dollar since Pena Nieto took office Dec. 1. Urbi Desarrollos
Urbanos SAB’s $500 million of notes due in 2022 have led
declines, sinking 33 cents to below 56 cents on the dollar.
Government peso bonds have handed investors a return of 9.5
percent in dollar terms this year, the best in the world after
the  Philippines , according to Credit Suisse Group AG.  While Pena Nieto’s bid to overhaul tax and energy policies
is luring investors to the nation’s sovereign debt and prompting
Standard & Poor’s to boost its rating outlook, his push for more
apartment construction is exacerbating a rout in homebuilder
bonds. Pena Nieto said Feb. 11 that he will use the government’s
subsidized-housing program to promote urban apartment building
projects, which require longer planning, building and sales
cycles than single-construction housing and have caused
homebuilders to boost debt and hemorrhage cash.  The government is “signaling very, very strongly that they
want people more focused on urban development with high-rise
buildings,” Robert Rauch, who helps oversee $3.3 billion as a
Greenwich, Connecticut-based partner and money manager at
Gramercy Funds Management, said in a telephone interview. He
said cash bleed is a sign the biggest builders lack “a good
business model.”  Government Plan  Alejandro Nieto Enriquez, the head of the National Housing
Commission, says the government’s housing scheme is part of an
“urban reform” aimed at curbing sprawl. The policy seeks to
meet the country’s housing needs, not to support specific
homebuilders, and it shouldn’t be judged based upon “short-
term” results, he said.  “What the specialized public sees is what’s happening with
the builders listed on the stock exchange,” Nieto Enriquez said
in an interview in  Mexico  City. “That’s not what’s happening in
the industry. For the industry in general, and Mexicans overall,
the housing policy is clearly going to have its benefits.”  The Finance Ministry said March 6 that lenders will provide
as much as 15 billion pesos ($1.2 billion) of construction
loans, with the government guaranteeing as much as 30 percent of
losses.  BBB Rating  S&P said March 12 it’s considering lifting Mexico’s BBB
rating, the second-lowest investment grade, as the prospects for
legislative changes that bolster the country’s finances and fuel
growth “have improved” under Pena Nieto.  Mexican government dollar-denominated bonds due in 2022
have lost 2.2 percent this year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  This month, S&P, Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch
Ratings have either downgraded or lowered the outlook on ratings
of Urbi, Desarrolladora Homex SAB and Corp. Geo SAB, the biggest
homebuilders.  Yields on Urbi’s notes have soared 758 basis points, or
7.58 percentage points, to a record 20.78 percent this month,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Moody’s cut the rating
of Mexico’s third-biggest public homebuilder by sales one  level 
to B2, five steps below investment grade.  David Aguilar, a spokesman for Urbi, declined to comment on
the company’s bond market performance.  Homex Bonds  Yields on $400 million of bonds due in 2020 sold by
Desarrolladora Homex SAB, the country’s biggest homebuilder by
revenue, have jumped 366 basis points to 14.59 percent this
month. Moody’s cut the outlook on Homex’s rating to negative
from stable. The Culiacan-based company is rated Ba3, three
levels below investment grade.  “We support the efforts of the government to improve urban
planning and order, and in that sense we’ve said that our land
reserves meet the objectives of the government,” Homex said in
an e-mailed response to questions. “We saw positive progress
near the end of the first quarter and we’re confident that we’ll
keep seeing positive signs throughout the year.”  Moody’s also lowered the rating outlook on Corp. Geo SAB,
the nation’s second-biggest homebuilder, to negative from
stable.  Alejandro Haiducovich, a spokesman for Geo, declined to
comment on the company’s performance.  Debt ‘Spiral’  “The debt will continue to spiral,” Rodrigo Covian, the
Miami-based head of fixed-income trading at Bulltick Capital
Markets, said in a telephone interview. The builders will have
to “redo all their strategy in order to go more for other types
of construction,” he said.  In 2011, Infonavit, the government agency that provides
about 70 percent of the nation’s mortgages, changed its criteria
for subsidies to encourage multi-family apartment construction
as it seeks to provide housing for about 8.9 million families
without homes or living in substandard dwellings.  Homebuilders such as Geo and Servicios Corporativos Javer
SAPI are better prepared to adapt to changes in housing policy
than the others, according to Omar Zeolla, an analyst at
Oppenheimer & Co.  ‘Better Shape’  “Javer and Geo are the ones that are in better shape to
get through this period of transition from the old model to the
new one,” Zeolla said in a telephone interview from New York.  The extra yield investors demand to own Mexican government
dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries narrowed five basis
points to 179 basis points at 8:29 a.m. in New York, according
to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global index.  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years with credit-default swaps was little changed at 94
basis points, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The peso gained 0.2 percent to 12.324 per dollar. Yields on
Mexican interbank rate futures contracts due in December, known
as TIIE, rose one basis point to 4.39 percent yesterday.  Pena Nieto’s housing plan also encourages development
closer to cities, which could hurt the value of some of the
builders’ current land banks, Fitch said in a Feb. 22 report.  “The government has made it very clear that they are not
going to be supportive of projects in the areas where many of
these companies built their land banks,” Bulltick’s Covian
said. “We have a lot of clients asking if this is the right
time to buy because they have gone too low, too quick, but I
don’t think this is the time to catch the knife. We have to see
more clarity from the government.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Danielle Verbrigghe in New York at 
 dverbrigghe@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Tsang at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net  