-- Hong Kong Trade Slides With Imports Contradicting China Data
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-26T10:53:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/hong-kong-trade-slides-with-imports-contradicting-china-data.html
Hong Kong ’s  exports  unexpectedly
fell in February by the most for a holiday month since 2009,
while a drop in imports from  China  contrasted with mainland data
showing an increase in shipments to the city.  Outbound shipments from Hong Kong fell 16.9 percent from a
year earlier, the city’s Census and Statistics Department said
today. That was lower than all 10 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey, with the median forecast for a 4.4 percent gain. Hong
Kong said  imports  from China dropped 18 percent, while China’s
customs administration said March 8 that shipments to the city
rose 35.6 percent.  The report adds to a widening divergence between Hong Kong
and China’s bilateral trade data, with Mizuho Securities Asia
Ltd. and HSBC Holdings Plc saying mainland figures may be
inflated by companies that move goods in and out of special
trade zones to claim tax rebates. Overstated data would mean
 China’s economy  is failing to get the boost from global demand
that the numbers indicate.  “Some mainland exporters may have inflated their
declarations to get the export tax rebate, and that may have
played a role in the difference,” Lu Jiang, an economist at
JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Hong Kong, said today. Different
statistical methods mainly account for the disparity, Jiang said.  Almost all of Hong Kong’s exports consist of re-exports to
other countries. Many of Hong Kong’s imports are destined for
processing on the mainland, and “external demand for Chinese
goods is not very strong at the start of the year,” Jiang said.  Last month had fewer working days than a year earlier
because of the timing of the Lunar New Year holiday, which
occurred in February this year and in January of 2012.  Imports Drop  Hong Kong’s total imports slid 18.3 percent from a year
earlier, also below all 10 analyst  estimates  and the median
forecast for a 2.5 percent decline. February imports from China
of HK$106.2 billion ($13.7 billion) contrast with China’s
reported $25.1 billion in exports to Hong Kong.  The Hong Kong statistics department said March 21 in an e-
mailed response to questions from Bloomberg News that it is only
responsible for the city’s official data and won’t comment on
mainland figures. Hong Kong’s and China’s trade statistics are
also compiled using different methods and can’t be directly
compared, the department said.  China’s General Administration of Customs said in January
that every dollar of trade is documented and that the statistics
only record companies’ actual trade with overseas partners,
including those in Hong Kong.  --Zhou Xin. Editors: Scott Lanman, Mohammed Hadi  To contact  Bloomberg News  staff on this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Scott Lanman at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net  