-- Mongolia Exchange Value May Reach $40 Billion on Rule Change
-- B y   M i c h a e l   K o h n
-- 2013-03-26T05:40:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/mongolia-exchange-value-may-reach-40-billion-on-rule-change.html
The passage of a Mongolian
 securities law  allowing dual listings would boost the value of
the nation’s  stock exchange  by 33-fold to $40 billion within
five years, said the bourse’s chief executive officer.  The legislation may be passed during the spring session of
Parliament, which runs from April till July, Khangai Altai said
in an interview in  Ulan Bator  yesterday. The bourse, which has a
capitalization of $1.2 billion, has been waiting for regulatory
changes for more than a year, he said.  “We have just laid down the fundamentals and imposed the
rules. Now what we need are the legal changes,” he said. “The
new securities law will connect the Mongolian market with
international markets. Many internationally listed companies
that do business have an interest in listing.”  Mongolia is seeking to attract more investors to the
nation’s stock market where the benchmark MSE Top 20 Index has
tumbled 11 percent this year, Asia’s worst performer. The
country’s central bank cut  interest rates  in January for the
first time since 2009 after economic growth declined to 12.3
percent last year from a record 17.3 percent in 2011.  Slower growth in  China , which buys more than 90 percent of
Mongolian exports, has reduced demand for its coal and copper.
Mongolia, squeezed between China and Russia, was the world’s
fastest-growing economy in 2011, according to the  World Bank .  Dual List  At current prices, a $40 billion market value would rank
Mongolia as the 16th-largest stock market in the Asia Pacific
region, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Vietnam  is
presently the 15th-largest with a value of $43.2 billion, the
data show.  The legislation that will allow overseas firms to dual list
on the stock exchange could lure foreign companies that have
assets in Mongolia. Canadian miner  Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd. (TRQ) 
has a 66 percent stake in Mongolia’s Oyu Tolgoi copper and gold
mine project.  “There are 40 internationally listed companies with
operations in Mongolia, which do have the appetite to list their
shares to set up a connection with the local community,” Altai
said.  Once dual listings are allowed, liquidity will flood the
market, providing an environment for most local companies to
list their shares, he said.  “The current law does not enable us to connect to
international markets. Dual listings will bring liquidity to the
market and help Mongolian companies grow,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Kohn in Ulan Bator at 
 mkohn5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Liu  at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net ;
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  