-- Top Asia Fund Turning to Volatile Stocks: Riskless Return
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-27T05:47:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/top-asia-fund-turning-to-volatile-stocks-riskless-return.html
Jesper Madsen, manager of the
Matthews  Asia  Dividend Fund, beat rivals over the past five
years with companies whose earnings are less vulnerable to
economic slowdowns. Now, he’s turning to riskier stocks as
investors are bidding up shares of stable companies.  The $4.5 billion fund run by Madsen advanced 3.4 percent
since 2008 through March 25 after adjusting for price swings,
the top gain among 14 U.S.-traded funds with more than $1
billion that invest at least half of their assets in Asian
stocks, according to the BLOOMBERG RISKLESS RETURN RANKING. The
Matthews Asia Dividend fund had the highest absolute return and
the lowest volatility among peers, which include offerings from
 Fidelity Investments  and Franklin Resources Inc.’s  Mark Mobius .  Madsen, 37, bet on companies such as Chinese auto-parts
maker  Minth Group Ltd. (425)  and Bangkok-based brewer  Thai Beverage
Pcl (THBEV) , whose shares more than tripled during the time that he held
them as investors sought predictable income streams and dividend
payouts in the aftermath of the global financial crisis. Rising
valuations of such companies have prompted Madsen to turn to
fast-growing companies that are more dependent on the economy,
such as  Cheung Kong (1)  Holdings Ltd., the Hong Kong developer owned
by Asia’s richest man  Li Ka-shing , and PT United Tractors,
 Indonesia ’s largest heavy-equipment seller.  Investors globally have been seeking “dividend-paying
companies to the point where in some areas of the market they
now run the risk of overpaying,” Madsen, a portfolio manager at
San Francisco-based Matthews International Capital Management
LLC, said in an interview. “More cyclical businesses are
selling at significant discount.”  Fund Volatility  The risk-adjusted return, which isn’t annualized, is
calculated by dividing total return by volatility, or the degree
of daily price variation, giving a measure of income per unit of
risk. A higher volatility means the price of an asset can swing
dramatically in a short period, increasing the potential for
unexpected losses.  Madsen’s  fund  rose 60.7 percent in the five years ended
March 25 on a cumulative basis, more than triple the 15.6
percent average gain for the 14 funds included in the ranking
and more than five times the 10.8 percent advance for the  MSCI
Asia Pacific Index (MXAP) , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
fund’s volatility was 17.9 in the period, compared with an
average volatility of 29.3 for all funds.  Matthews International, which specializes in investing in
Asia, also had the second-best performer in the ranking. The
$7.2 billion Pacific Tiger Fund, run by Richard Gao and Sharat Shroff, had a cumulative return of 44 percent over the past five
years with lower-than-average volatility for a 1.6 percent risk-
adjusted return.  Dividend Yield  The $1.6 billion Fidelity  China  Region Fund, run by Robert Bao, had a risk-adjusted return of 0.7 percent to rank seventh.
The $1.1 billion Templeton China World Fund, managed by a team
led by Mobius, returned 1.1 percent after adjusting for price
swings to rank fifth, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Madsen seeks companies that increase their dividends. His
fund has a  dividend yield  of 3.27 percent, compared with a 2.5
percent yield for the MSCI Asia Pacific Index, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. His fund has an average price-to-earnings
ratio of 12.3, compared with 16.97 for the  index , the data show.  ‘Gravity Applies’  “Unfortunately, successful investing may not be just about
finding good companies, but also about buying future dividend
payments at attractive prices,” Madsen wrote in a fund
commentary for investors. “We believe there is nothing safe
about buying overvalued assets; stable or not, gravity
applies.”  The biggest contributors to the returns posted by Madsen’s
fund over the past five years were Ningbo, China-based Minth,
 Top Glove Corp. (TOPG) , the Malaysian company that’s the world’s
biggest rubber-glove maker, and Thai Beverage, the brewer
controlled by billionaire Charoen Sirivadhanabhakdi, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Madsen, who has managed the fund since its inception in
2006, has pared back some of his top performers as share prices
soared, while adding to what he considers cyclical or
economically sensitive stocks.  “New additions to the strategy during the past year were
generally businesses exposed to the economic cycle that held a
strong competitive position within their respective
industries,” Madsen said.  Property Companies  Madsen raised the weighting of real-estate companies to the
third-largest through the purchase of Cheung Kong shares in
September last year. Property-related companies as a group were
the largest contributor to gains in the five-year period, led by
CapitaRetail China Trust, a Singapore-based operator of shopping
malls in China, and the Link Real Estate Investment Trust,  Hong
Kong ’s biggest property trust.  Cheung Kong shares gained 1.2 percent as of 1:43 p.m. Hong
Kong time.  The fund also increased its holdings in capital goods
companies such as Itochu Corp. and United Tractors. Capital
goods companies are now the second-largest weighting in the fund
at 9.9 percent, compared with less than 4 percent five years
ago.  United Tractors has good  management  and a policy of paying
out “attractive” dividends, Madsen said.  Chinese Shares  In the past year, Madsen also bought Dongfeng Motor Group
Co., which produces cars with Nissan Motor Co. in China, and
China Shenhua Energy Co., the nation’s biggest coal producer.
Dongfeng climbed 2.7 percent in Hong Kong, the most since Feb.
28, while Shenhua added 1.1 percent.  Dongfeng Motor paid HK$0.18 ($0.02) per share in dividends
in 2012, more than three times the level in 2008.  “We believe it can grow its dividend,” Madsen said.
“It’s a long-term, very stable, well-positioned business within
the automobile and manufacturing business.”  Madsen said he likes  China Shenhua (1088)  because of its
diversified businesses, including the ability to transport the
coal it produces. Shenhua’s dividend payout in 2012 was five
times higher than in 2008, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The Matthews fund has more than tripled its stake in
Chinese companies since the end of 2007 to 22 percent as of the
end of 2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Hong Kong
companies accounted for an additional 12 percent of the
portfolio as of year-end.  Madsen avoided buying Chinese shares amid a rally in 2007,
when the  MSCI China Index (MXCN)  jumped 64 percent. He instead bought
China shares when they got cheaper in 2008, as the MSCI gauge
slid 52 percent during the global financial crisis.  ‘Positive Return’  “Focusing on what looks attractively priced in China and
deriving a great deal of total return via that dividend -- that
had buffered a great deal of volatility and allowed us to
generate a very strong positive return,” Madsen said.  Japanese shares accounted for 22 percent of the portfolio
after Madsen reduced holdings over the past five years. Itochu
and  Orix Corp. (8591) , which operates leasing and insurance businesses,
were the fund’s two biggest holdings at the end of last year.  The fund is “starting to have a second look” in Japanese
equities, especially exporters, Madsen said.  Japan  is seeing
some “very interesting movements for the first time in a very
long time,” he said.  The  Topix Index (TPX) , the country’s broadest equity measure, has
climbed 45 percent since Nov. 14, when elections were announced
that brought Prime Minister Shinzo Abe to power on a platform of
increased stimulus and monetary easing from the central bank.  MSCI’s Asian gauge has a dividend yield of 2.54 compared
with 2.12 for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  China’s economy ,
the world’s second largest, may grow 8.5 percent this year and
expand 8.9 percent in 2014, the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development said March 22.  Asia is “a very fertile environment when it comes to
investors that are looking for some kind of yield,” said
Madsen. “And you are in one of the fastest-growing regions in
the world. Those two combined are what people need to care about
when they think about their allocation in their portfolios.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net ;
Allen Wan in Shanghai at 
 awan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  