-- Osborne Defends Mortgage Plan as Lawmakers Worry About Boom
-- B y   A n d r e w   A t k i n s o n
-- 2013-03-26T16:49:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/osborne-defends-mortgage-plan-as-lawmakers-worry-about-boom.html
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  defended his mortgage-support program as U.K. lawmakers
questioned whether it might generate another housing boom.  Speaking to lawmakers in London today, Osborne said the
program was designed to help people struggling to get affordable
home loans at a time when the mortgage market remains impaired.  “The absolutely clear intention is to help people buy
their first home, or move home as their family grows,” he told
the cross-party House of Commons Treasury Committee. “We want
to get this scheme right.”  Earlier today, the  Office for Budget Responsibility  cast
doubt on the program, announced in Osborne’s budget last week,
saying it may drive up house prices without boosting
housebuilding significantly.  “Is it just going to drive up  house prices ? By and large
in the short run the answer to that is yes,” Stephen Nickell, a
member of the OBR, told the panel. “But in the medium term,
will the increased house prices stimulate more housebuilding?
Our general answer to that would probably be: A bit, but not
very much.”  Critics have expressed concern that the taxpayer guarantee
may be used by buyers of second homes, rekindling a housing boom
in time for the general election in 2015.  Osborne said the proposal “corrects a market failure” and
will also spur housebuilding.  “I don’t detect we’re in the middle of a housing boom,”
he said. “Families are priced out of the housing market and
that is neither economically right nor socially fair.”  He said he doesn’t envisage the program lasting longer than
three years.  Osborne pledged 3.5 billion pounds ($5.3 billion) to help
buyers of new homes with loans of as much as 20 percent of the
property’s value, broadening an existing program beyond first-
time purchasers. He also announced a plan to guarantee as much
as 130 billion pounds of new mortgages to fuel demand from
purchasers with limited cash for a deposit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Atkinson in  London  at 
 a.atkinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Eddie Buckle at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net  