-- Osborne Says BOE Remit Consultation Would Have Meant Uncertainty
-- B y   F e r g a l   O ’ B r i e n
-- 2013-03-26T16:57:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/osborne-says-boe-remit-consultation-would-have-meant-uncertainty.html
U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer
George Osborne defended his decision to change the Bank of
England’s remit without a lengthy consultation, saying a review
could have unsettled investors and households.  “We just felt that would create too much uncertainty,” he
told lawmakers at a hearing in Parliament in  London  today. “We
were pretty clear on the direction we wanted to head in.”  Osborne said last week he will give the Monetary Policy
Committee more leeway to meet its 2 percent inflation goal amid
strains in the economy. In response to questions from lawmakers,
he said the MPC was already interpreting its mandate flexibly
enough to provide support to the recovery at a time of above-
target inflation.  “It’s perfectly reasonable after all that happened in our
economy in the past five years to examine whether the BOE remit
is appropriate,” Osborne said at the Treasury Select Committee.
“The MPC themselves in February had already signaled a change
in practice,” he said, referring to policy makers’ decision to
“look through” a surge in inflation.  Consumer prices  rose 2.8 percent in February and the Bank
of England has forecast that it will stay above 2 percent for
much of the next three years.  The chancellor, overseeing an economy close to its first
ever  triple-dip recession , said there has been a “pretty lively
debate” about the Bank of England in recent months.      Bank
of Canada Governor Mark Carney, who will replace Mervyn King as
head of the Bank of England in July, sparked that debate by
promoting flexible inflation targeting and the use of forward
guidance.  Policy Change  Osborne has asked the MPC to assess the benefits of
signaling its own expectations and the use of “intermediate
thresholds” that will influence policy changes. He said today
that such an approach has merit because it provides certainty to
borrowers.  “It gives households and business a clearer idea of that
future path of interest rates so it gives them more time to
adjust,” he said. “They also have more time if they want to
make investment decisions while interest rates are low. That’s
one of the interesting things about so-called forward
guidance.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fergal O’Brien in London at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  