-- Fannie Mae Exempt From County Transfer Taxes, Judge Rules
-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 2013-03-27T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/housing-agencies-exempt-from-transfer-taxes-judge-rules.html
Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac (FMCC)  are
exempt from paying real-estate transfer taxes, a federal judge
in Philadelphia said in a ruling that threw out a lawsuit by two
Pennsylvania counties.  U.S. District Judge Gene E.K. Pratter rejected arguments by
Delaware and Chester counties that the transfer tax is a levy on
real estate and thus is an exception to broad, Congressionally-
mandated immunity from state and local taxes enjoyed by Federal
National Mortgage Association, or  Fannie Mae, (FNMA)  and the Federal
Home Loan Mortgage Corp., known at  Freddie Mac .  “Pennsylvania Supreme Court and U.S. Supreme Court case
law makes clear that the transfer tax is a tax on the
transaction and not on the real property itself,” Pratter wrote
in yesterday’s decision.  “Because federal statutes do exempt these defendants from
paying real estate transfer taxes, the court will dismiss the
case,” according to the ruling.  Benjamin Johns, an attorney for Delaware and Chester
counties, didn’t immediately return a phone message seeking
comment on the ruling.  Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac own or guarantee $5.2 trillion
in mortgages and back more than two thirds of mortgages
currently being originated.  Maryland, Ohio  The Pennsylvania counties’ suit is one of several cases in
the U.S. over transfer fees. Other cases have been brought by
Montgomery County in Ohio; Montgomery County in Maryland and
Miami-Dade County and Hernando County in Florida.  Pratter said there have been at least five decisions in
such cases, with Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac winning four of
them.  The Pennsylvania counties’ complaint also named the  Federal
Housing Finance Agency , which took Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac
into U.S. conservatorship in September 2008.  Andrew Wilson , a spokesman for Washington-based Fannie Mae;
 Brad German , a spokesman for MacLean, Virginia-based Freddie
Mac, and Stefanie Johnson, a spokeswoman for the FHFA, declined
to comment on the ruling.  The case is Delaware County, Pennsylvania v.  Federal
Housing Finance Agency , 12-cv-04554, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of Pennsylvania (Philadelphia).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  