-- Toyota Boosts 2013 U.S. Light-Vehicle Sales Forecast
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n   a n d   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 2013-03-27T00:25:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/toyota-forecasts-13-light-vehicles-sales-of-15-3-million.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (TM) , after reporting
slower growth in February, is boosting its U.S. auto market
outlook on improving consumer confidence, a better economy and
demand for Camry sedans and Prius hybrids.  Toyota expects drivers to buy 15.3 million new cars and
light trucks this year, about 5.5 percent more than in 2012, Bob Carter, senior vice president for the company’s U.S. sales unit,
said yesterday in New York. The world’s largest carmaker plans
to sell more than 2.2 million Toyota, Lexus and Scion vehicles
in the U.S., up 50,000 units from its January estimate.  “We’re optimistic about 2013 because the U.S. economy is
forecast to continue improving,” helped by the job market,
consumer confidence and the housing recovery, Carter said at a
forum sponsored by J.D. Power & Associates and the National
Automobile Dealers Association, in connection with the  New York
auto show . March sales look “very good” for all manufacturers,
he said.  Toyota seeks to sustain its 2012 rebound when, led by the
Camry, the Toyota City, Japan-based company boosted its U.S.
deliveries by 27 percent. That’s growing tougher as competition
with newer models including  Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s Fusion sedan cut
into Camry’s share of the mid-size car segment.  Toyota deliveries grew 4.3 percent last month, less than
the 8.5 percent increase that was the average of eight analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Among large carmakers, Ford’s
14.7 percent gain through February tops Toyota’s 14.1 percent,
according to researcher Autodata Corp.  Improved Credit  New-car buyers, shunned by lenders just four years ago, are
benefiting from historically low interest rates and better
access to loans. U.S. light-vehicle sales in 2013’s first two
months rose 8.4 percent to 2.24 million, according to Autodata.  Auto sales will benefit as consumer spending turns
positive, Nariman Behravesh, chief economist at researcher IHS
Automotive, said at the New York conference.  “We saw a downtick to  consumer confidence  from the
sequester, but despite the payroll tax increase and a recent gas
price increase, the fundamentals of consumer spending have
strengthened and are very positive,” Behravesh said.  Honda Motor Co. (7267) , which has forecast U.S. auto sales to
reach 15.2 million units this year, said March sales of Honda
and Acura brand autos are going to be “very, very good.”  Honda Growth  “We’re looking at probably an 8 percent or more increase
over March of last year,” John Mendel, executive vice president
of Honda’s U.S. sales unit, said in a phone interview yesterday.
“You’ll see Accord up over 30 percent for the month over last
year,” he said, with gains also coming from Civic small cars,
Pilot sport-utility vehicles and Acura RDX crossovers.  Honda and Acura brand sales should total at least 138,000
vehicles, Mendel said.  Honda’s Accord, Camry’s closest competitor, was the second-
best-selling mid-size car in the U.S. through February, followed
by the Fusion. Carter has vowed that Toyota intends to keep
Camry the industry’s top-selling car and yesterday said sales of
the model will again top 400,000 this year.  The Camry has been the No. 1 car in the U.S. for 11 years.
Sales of the model in February slumped 9.5 percent from a year
earlier, the biggest drop in 16 months.  Toyota expects much of its U.S. growth this year to come
from “hybrids, small trucks and retail sales,” Carter said.
“We believe we’re poised for another solid year.”  The company today debuts a redesigned version of its
Highlander SUV at the New York show.  ‘Different Company’  Toyota rose 0.5 percent to 4,935 yen as of 9:02 a.m. in
 Tokyo , extending its gain to 23 percent this year. Honda
advanced 0.5 percent to 3,640 yen, bringing its 2013 surge to 16
percent, compared with a 20 percent rally in the benchmark
Nikkei 225 Stock Average.  Automakers report U.S. March sales results on April 2.  Toyota’s U.S. sales declined for four consecutive years,
from 2008 through 2011, before last year’s rebound. Initially,
the company’s sales fell along with the industry amid the
recession, before sinking further on record recalls in 2010 and
natural disasters in 2011 that slowed its production.  President  Akio Toyoda  has been revamping the carmaker to
overcome those setbacks, Carter said.  “With the many challenges Toyota faced a few years ago, we
were the poster child for the need to be open, transparent and
honest with our customers,” he said. “We’re a much different
company than we were a few years ago.”  Executive Moves  Toyoda, 56, whose grandfather founded the automaker, this
month announced a management shake-up that for the first time
added three board members from outside Toyota, including Mark Hogan, an executive at the predecessor of  General Motors Co. (GM)   Toyoda also promoted Jim Lentz, president of the U.S. sales
unit, to chief executive officer for all the company’s
operations in North America beginning April 1, and elevated
Steve St. Angelo, a North American manufacturing official, to
run Toyota’s Latin American operations.  “These were not just routine management shuffles,” Carter
said. “They signify a huge turning point for our company.”  Toyota also promoted U.S. Lexus chief Mark Templin to
manage the luxury brand’s global operations from company
headquarters in  Japan .  “In the past, critics have complained that Toyota’s global
efforts were hampered by resisting bringing in outsiders and
non-Japanese into the inner circle of decision-making,” Carter
said. “Well, not anymore.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in Los Angeles at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Clothier in New York at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  