-- Phone Companies May Save Up to $77 Billion in EU Broadband Plan
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2013-03-26T13:01:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/phone-companies-may-save-up-to-77-billion-in-eu-broadband-plan.html
The European Union proposed
measures to reduce telephone companies’ expenses for wiring up
new buildings while boosting access to high-speed broadband
across the region.  The EU proposal, which will trim how long it takes to set
up masts and antennas and allow collaboration between carriers,
utilities and builders, could cut the cost of rolling out high-
speed Internet by 30 percent. That may save companies including
 Telefonica SA (TEF)  and  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  as much as 60 billion
euros ($77 billion), the European Commission said in a statement
today.  “In most places, today’s rules hurt Europe’s
competitiveness,” said  Neelie Kroes , the commissioner in charge
of the digital agenda. “Everyone deserves fast broadband. I
want to burn the red tape that is stopping us for getting
there.”  Phone companies are investing in deploying fiber optic
across Europe as they seek to tap higher profit margins from
Internet services while revenue from traditional voice and text-
messaging services declines. In Spain, Telefonica and  Jazztel
Plc (JAZ)  signed an agreement in October to jointly deploy fiber-to-
the-home networks for 3 million real-estate units.  Civil engineering works, such as digging up roads to deploy
fiber, account for as much as 80 percent of the cost to deploy
high-speed networks, the commission said.  “Every step to boost savings is positive for European
phone companies, even though the market is still too
regulated,” said Ivan San Felix, a Madrid-based analyst at
 Renta 4 Banco SA. (R4)  “Authorities will continue to push for lower
broadband prices, which in the end is good for consumers.”  The EU is increasingly taking measures to boost competition
and consolidation in the European telecoms market as phone
companies face declining profitability, putting pressure on
their stock.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  