-- Dog-Sniff Cases Debated as Court Weighs Privacy Rights
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r   a n d   B o b   D r u m m o n d
-- 2013-03-26T17:09:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/police-need-warrants-for-dogs-sniffing-homes-high-court-says.html
Drug-sniffing police dogs have
their place, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled. And it’s not on a
suspect’s front porch.  The court today said officers typically need a warrant
before taking an animal to the door of a house in the hope of
detecting narcotics. The justices ruled on Feb. 19 that police
officers can search someone’s car after a trained dog outside
the vehicle alerts them to the presence of drugs.  Together, the decisions amount to a vote of respect for the
abilities of police dogs -- and wariness about their potential
misuse. While the court has previously said officers can walk
onto a suspect’s property to knock on the door, the 5-4 majority
today said the use of trained dogs is different.  “When it comes to the Fourth Amendment, the home is first
among equals,” Justice Antonin Scalia wrote. “This right would
be of little practical value if the state’s agents could stand
in a home’s porch or side garden and trawl for evidence with
impunity.”  The justices were considering a bid by  Florida  officials to
revive the prosecution of a man arrested after police raided a
Miami house and found marijuana plants.  The Florida Supreme Court said prosecutors couldn’t use
evidence obtained in the house because officers violated the
U.S. Constitution’s ban on unreasonable searches.  Scalia was joined in the majority by Justices Clarence Thomas, Ruth Bader Ginsburg, Sonia Sotomayor and Elena Kagan.
Chief Justice John Roberts and Justices Samuel Alito, Anthony Kennedy and Stephen Breyer dissented.  ‘Big-Picture Case’  “It’s a big-picture case,” Steven Benjamin, president of
the National Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers, said in a
telephone interview. “To put it simply, the front porch now
enjoys the same safety from uninvited or warrantless search as
the living room.”  Miami-Dade police began focusing on Joelis Jardines’s house
after receiving a tip he was growing marijuana there. A month
later, two detectives went to the front porch with a drug-
sniffing dog, named Franky, who gave an alert at the door. One
of the detectives said he also smelled marijuana.  The officers then left to get a search warrant before
entering the house and discovering the plants. Jardines was
charged with trafficking cannabis and stealing electricity to
grow the marijuana.  ‘Something Else’  The Supreme Court majority said police -- like Halloween
trick-or-treaters and Girl Scouts selling cookies -- are
permitted to knock on someone’s door.  “But introducing a trained police dog to explore the area
around the home in hopes of discovering incriminating evidence
is something else,” Scalia wrote. “Their behavior objectively
reveals a purpose to conduct a search.”  Prosecutors and law enforcement groups pushed for the court
to reverse the Florida Supreme Court’s decision, citing the
potential negative fallout to upholding the ruling.  “If the Florida Supreme Court’s decision is upheld, it
could have a profound chilling effect on law enforcement efforts
to combat illegal drugs,” a group of 27 state attorneys
general, including Greg Abbott of  Texas , Beau Biden of  Delaware 
and Ken Cuccinelli of  Virginia , wrote in a May 2012 brief to the
court.  Alito, writing for the dissenters, pointed to a centuries-
long tradition of using dogs for police work.  ‘Specialized Device’  “It is clear that the occupant of a house has no
reasonable expectation of privacy with respect to odors that can
be smelled by human beings,” Alito wrote. “I would not draw a
line between odors that can be smelled by humans and those that
are detectable only by dogs.”  Kagan, in an opinion concurring with the majority,
countered that Franky, the police dog, wasn’t an ordinary
canine.  “A drug-detection dog is a specialized device for
discovering objects not in plain view (or plain smell),” she
wrote. “That device was aimed here at a home -- the most
private and inviolate (or so we expect) of all places and things
that the Fourth Amendment protects.”  Last month’s decision, also in a case from Florida,
involved the use of a trained dog after a police officer stopped
Clayton Harris for driving his pickup truck with an expired
license plate. After the dog, named Aldo, gave an alert by the
driver’s-side door handle, the officer concluded that he had the
legal right to search the truck.  Privacy Expectations  The search produced ingredients for making methamphetamine,
and Harris later admitted that he had purchased the items to
make the drug.  The court unanimously said that search was permitted.  “We have held, over and over again, that people’s
expectations of privacy are much lower in their cars than in
their homes,” Kagan wrote in today’s case.  The high court ruled in 2001 that police couldn’t use
technology -- in that case a thermal imaging device -- to
discover what otherwise would be unknowable details about a
private home.  Florida argued that police should have greater leeway to
use drug-sniffing dogs. The Obama administration argued
alongside Florida, urging the court to permit broad use of
trained dogs.  Jardines’ lawyers said the use of dogs outside a person’s
door violated the homeowner’s reasonable privacy expectations.  In the opinion for the court, Scalia said the justices
didn’t need to decide whether the case raised privacy issues.
Bringing a drug-sniffing dog to the door demonstrated that the
police were conducting a search in an area protected by the
Fourth Amendment, Scalia wrote.  In the concurring opinion, joined by Ginsburg and
Sotomayor, Kagan wrote that she “could just as happily have
decided it by looking to Jardines’ privacy interests.”  The cases are Florida v. Jardines, 11-564, and Florida v.
Harris, 11-817.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Drummond in Washington at 
 bdrummond@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  