-- Prior Hits 110 as England Avoids Cricket Defeat in New Zealand
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-03-26T06:47:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/prior-hits-110-as-england-draws-cricket-series-in-new-zealand.html
Matt Prior scored an unbeaten
century as  England  held on to draw the final cricket Test and
avoid a first series defeat in  New Zealand  for almost 30 years.  Prior finished 110 not out with No. 11 batsman Monty Panesar on 2 as England, the No. 2 team in the Test rankings,
reached 315-9 at stumps on the last day to tie the best-of-three
contest 0-0. The first two matches ended in rain-affected draws.  Prior and Panesar survived the final 19 balls in Auckland
today after part-time spin bowler Kane Williamson took two
wickets in three balls to put eighth-ranked New Zealand, which
last won a Test series between the teams in 1999, on the brink
of a first home series victory against England since 1984.  “I’m not really one to celebrate draws, but to escape with
that was a phenomenal effort,” Prior, who batted for 4 1/2
hours in scoring his seventh Test century, said in a televised
interview. “To get over the line is unbelievable. You just dig
in for as long as you can.”  England resumed the final day at 90-4 after being set a
world record 481 runs for victory and entered the last session
seven wickets down after  Ian Bell  got out for 75 following a
six-hour stay at the crease.  Stuart Broad  scored six runs off 77
balls to help England bat out the draw.  “We gave it a red-hot crack but England were hellbent on
making sure they didn’t lose a Test match,” said New Zealand
captain Brendon McCullum. “Although we didn’t get the result,
the fighting effort we showed makes me incredibly proud.”  McCullum declared New Zealand’s second innings at 241-6
yesterday after Peter Fulton scored his second century of the
match. The Black Caps scored 443 in the first innings before
dismissing England for 204.  England Letoffs  Prior, who successfully challenged a leg-before-wicket
decision when on 16 today, had another reprieve on 28 when a
bouncer from Wagner hit his bat handle and helmet before falling
onto the stumps without dislodging the bails.  Broad, who took 62 balls and 102 minutes to get off the
mark, had a similar letoff on 2 when the ball brushed the leg
stump after hitting his pad.  Williamson combined with  Ross Taylor  at slip to remove
Broad and  James Anderson  in the fourth-last over and leave
England at 304-9. Panesar survived five balls to help Prior, who
struck 20 fours in his 182-ball innings, secure the draw.  The home team earlier broke a 60-run stand between Bell and
Joe Root when Trent Boult’s first delivery with the second new
ball trapped Root lbw for 29. In the final over before lunch,
Dean Brownlie and Williamson dropped chances to remove Bell and
Jonny Bairstow and leave England five wickets down.  Bell, Prior  Bairstow didn’t add to his total after the break, edging
Tim Southee to Taylor to leave England at 159-6. Bell and Prior
shared a 78-run stand before Neil Wagner ended Bell’s 271-ball
innings as Southee took a catch in the last over before tea.  Williamson led New Zealand’s bowlers with 4-44, his best
figures in elite five-day cricket, while Wagner and Southee each
took two wickets.  “We are gutted,” Southee said. “To fight so hard for
five days and come so close, a bit of luck would have been nice.
Prior played one hell of an innings, along with Bell earlier.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  