-- Qantas-Emirates Kangaroo Alliance Cleared by Regulator
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2013-03-27T05:51:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/qantas-emirates-kangaroo-alliance-backed-by-antitrust-regulator.html
Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN) ’s bid to tie up
with Emirates on international flights and shift the so-called
kangaroo route to fly through Dubai was cleared by  Australia ’s
antitrust regulator.  The alliance will be permitted for five years and allow the
carriers to coordinate passenger and cargo operations and other
services, the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission
said in a regulatory statement today. The regulator will impose
a condition limiting the carriers’ ability to adjust capacity on
flights between Australia and  New Zealand .  Qantas will sell tickets to 60 new one-stop destinations in
 Europe , the Middle East and Africa via Emirates’ Dubai hub under
the alliance. The Australian carrier sought the tie-up after
losing market share on international routes to  Middle East  and
Asian rivals offering a wider range of connections and more
convenient flight times.  “The alliance is likely to result in material, but not
substantial, public benefits,” the Commission’s chairman Rod Sims said in a statement. “The alliance is likely to provide
Qantas and Emirates customers with increased access to a large
number of existing frequencies and destinations.”  Qantas shares rose 2.3 percent to A$1.76 in Sydney trading,
the highest level since March 30, 2012, compared to a 0.9
percent gain in the S&P/ASX 200 index. The stock has risen 56
percent since the deal was announced Sept. 6 last year.  “Customers are already responding very strongly to the
joint network,” Alan Joyce, Qantas chief executive officer,
said in a regulatory statement today welcoming the decision.  The regulator granted provisional approval to the tie-up
Dec. 20 and today’s announcement follows the terms of the
earlier decision.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  