-- Tracsis Advances to Record on Sky High Acquisition: London Mover
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2013-03-26T13:01:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/tracsis-advances-to-record-on-sky-high-acquisition-london-mover.html
Tracsis Plc (TRCS) , a provider of software
for the transport industry, rose to the highest since its shares
started trading in 2007 after agreeing to buy  Sky High Plc (SKHG) , the
U.K.’s largest provider of traffic analysis and surveys.  The  shares  rose as much as 5.7 percent, and were up 5.4
percent at 184.5 pence as of 12:58 p.m. The volume of shares
traded was five times the three-month daily average. The stock
has more than tripled since the start of last year, lifting the
Leeds, England-based company’s market value to 46 million pounds
($69.7 million).  Tracsis agreed to pay 15.25 pence a share, valuing Sky High
at 3.3 million pounds, it said in a statement today. The offer
was 77 percent higher than the average closing price over the
past six months. Tracsis has made at least five acquisitions
since 2007, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  The combination of Tracsis and Sky High “adds considerable
breadth, depth and scale to our existing offering,” Tracsis
Chief Executive Officer John McArthur said in the statement.
“We see great cross-selling opportunities of both services and
technology to this new market, whilst expanding our reach
overseas given the considerable presence Sky High has in
 Australia .”  Tracsis Customers  Sky High’s independent directors agreed to vote 10.8
million shares, or 67 percent of the eligible shares, in favor
of the transaction, according to the statement.  Tracsis software is used by rail companies to draw up crew
rosters and optimize rolling stock use.  Clients  include
Stagecoach Group Plc, operator of the U.K.’s busiest rail
service, Network Rail, the owner of British train tracks and
stations, and National Express Group Plc.  Sky High  was founded in 1989 and its clients include
government agencies, private sector companies and public sector
groups. It has offices in Melbourne, Brisbane and Sydney. Its
head office is in Tadcaster, about 15 miles (24 kilometers) from
Tracsis.  Tracsis’s pretax profit for the six months ended Jan. 31
rose 50 percent to 1.7 million pounds, the company said in a
statement on March 4.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at   dlytle@bloomberg.net  