-- Rand Gains for Fourth Day Against Dollar as Cyprus Risk Fades
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2013-03-26T07:50:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/rand-gains-for-fourth-day-against-dollar-as-cyprus-risk-fades.html
The rand advanced for a fourth day
as investors gauged a bailout of Cyprus has averted a renewal of
the euro region’s debt crisis, boosting demand for riskier
assets including emerging-market stocks and bonds.  South Africa ’s currency traded 0.3 percent stronger at
9.2665 per dollar as of 9:28 a.m. in Johannesburg. Yields on
benchmark 10.5 percent bonds due December 2026 were unchanged at
7.49 percent.  Cyprus’s bailout plan to tax bank depositors had cast doubt
on the safety of financial assets in  Europe , sending U.S. stocks
lower and the euro to a four-month low yesterday. Concern hasn’t
spread to other debt-stressed nations in the euro region,
according to  John Cairns , a currency strategist at Rand Merchant
Bank in Johannesburg.  “Any further fallout should be limited,” Cairns said in
e-mailed comments. “This then leaves markets jittery and
uncertain but edging towards recovery.”  Emerging-market stocks  gained, with the benchmark index
rising for a second day. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of raw
materials climbed for a third day as prices of industrial metals
including copper gained. Metals and other commodities account
for 53 percent of South Africa’s exports, according to
government data for 2012.  The nation’s trade deficit narrowed to 12.7 billion rand
($1.4 billion) in February, from a record 24.5 billion rand the
month before, a report on March 28 will show, according to the
median estimate of 10 economists in a Bloomberg survey. Private-
sector credit growth probably slowed to 8 percent from 8.6
percent, while producer price inflation slowed to 5.6 percent
from 5.8 percent, two separate reports may show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  