-- Transdev to Sell European Assets, Cut Debt as Part of Overhaul
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2013-03-26T15:04:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/transdev-to-sell-european-assets-cut-debt-as-part-of-overhaul.html
Transdev , the mass transit operator
partly owned by  Veolia Environnement SA (VIE) , plans to lower debt,
sell assets and reduce global reach in a bid to raise
profitability.  The operator of city buses and tramways’ debt of 1.9
billion euros ($2.5 billion) “is not sustainable for much
longer,” Chief Executive Officer Jean-Marc Janaillac said at a
press conference today. After a period of rapid expansion and
rising revenue, “we’re going through withdrawal.”  Transdev, renamed from Veolia Transdev because the water
utility’s stake is set to fall through a capital increase, is in
the throes of a reorganization that will see the reach of its
bus, rail and tramway activities reduced to about 17 countries
from as many as 27. The company was created in 2010 when French
state-owned bank  Caisse des Depots et Consignations  and Veolia
Environnement SA agreed to merge their transport units to create
the world’s biggest private operator. They had planned an
initial public offering.  Transdev reported a loss of 380 million euros for 2012 on
sales of 7.6 billion euros, the company said today.  Transdev is preparing to sell assets with revenues of about
1.5 billion euros in coming months that include rail and bus
businesses in  Germany ,  Sweden ,  Finland ,  Belgium  and the
Netherlands, according to a statement released today. Debt may
be cut to less than half by the end of 2015, he said.  ‘Good Margins’  The businesses to be sold either require a lot of spending
on equipment or are slow growing, Janaillac said. French loss-
making contracts will be reviewed while orders in the U.S. and
 Australia  are providing “good margins,” he said.  CDC will bring 520 million euros to Transdev as part of the
capital increase while Veolia will provide 280 million euros,
bringing their stakes to 60 percent and 40 percent, Janaillac
said.  Veolia Chief Executive Officer Antoine Frerot has said the
water utility wants to lower its stake to 20 percent within
about two years and eventually pull out.  Transdev’s reorganization mirrors efforts by Frerot to sell
assets to lower debt at Veolia while also reducing its
geographic reach.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  