-- Transocean Witness Says 2010 Gulf Rig Was Well-Maintained
-- B y   A l l e n   J o h n s o n   J r . ,   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2013-03-26T21:20:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/transocean-witness-says-2010-gulf-rig-was-well-maintained.html
Transocean Ltd. (RIG)  properly maintained
its Deepwater Horizon rig before the April 2010 blowout of a  BP
Plc (BP/)  well that set off the largest U.S. offshore  oil spill , a
company witness told a New Orleans federal judge.  In a trial to determine liability for the disaster, William
Ambrose, a Transocean executive who led the driller’s internal
probe of the fatal explosion and spill, today disputed testimony
from a witness who claimed the company maintained the rig in a
grossly negligent manner.  Edward G. Webster, a marine engineering expert who
testified for oil spill victims pressing claims in the case,
reviewed a Transocean computerized maintenance system report for
the Deepwater Horizon, dated a day before the blast, which
listed 222 overdue maintenance tasks. Ambrose said today most of
the items were low-priority issues.  “Nothing on that list would say ‘Stop this rig,’” he told
U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier  at the nonjury trial. “There
was nothing major along those lines.”  The blowout and explosion aboard the Deepwater Horizon
killed 11 workers and spilled more than 4 million barrels of oil
into the  Gulf of Mexico . The accident sparked hundreds of
lawsuits against London-based BP, owner of the Macondo well;
Vernier, Switzerland-based Transocean; and Houston-based
 Halliburton Co. (HAL) , which provided cement services.  The trial over liability for the blowout and spill began
Feb. 25. Barbier will determine responsibility for the disaster
and whether one or more of the companies acted with willful or
wanton misconduct or reckless indifference -- the legal
requirement for establishing gross negligence.  Gross Negligence  For BP, a finding of gross negligence would mean the
company might be liable to the U.S. for as much as $17.6 billion
in Clean Water Act fines, as well as unspecified punitive
damages to claimants who weren’t part of the $8.5 billion
settlement the company reached with most private-party
plaintiffs last year.  Transocean and Halliburton could be held liable for
punitive damages for all plaintiffs if the companies are found
to have handled their duties on the rig in a grossly negligent
manner.  Lawyers for U.S. and spill victims have argued BP was over
budget and behind schedule on the deep-water Macondo well off
the  Louisiana  coast, prompting the  oil company  to cut corners
and ignore safety tests showing the well was unstable.  They also allege Halliburton’s cement job was defective and
that Transocean employees made a series of missteps on the rig,
including disabling safety systems, failing to properly maintain
the installation and not adequately training its crew to handle
crisis situations.  Nine Years  During today’s testimony, Ambrose disagreed with Webster’s
assessment that Transocean was negligent because the company
hadn’t taken the rig out of the water for repairs in nine years
of operations.  “He’s completely wrong,” Ambrose said. So-called dry-dock
repairs for the Deepwater Horizon wouldn’t have been required
for another 10 to 15 years, he said.  Still, Ambrose acknowledged under cross-examination by a
lawyer for BP that a January 2008 safety audit of the Deepwater
Horizon found “critical checks and inspections are being
missed” because Transocean workers were incorrectly documenting
maintenance work done on the rig. Maintenance jobs were being
reported as completed that weren’t, he said.  Ambrose said while he was unsure whether any Transocean
employee had been fired over the audit, a worker “could face
termination” for mishandling maintenance reports.  Safety Systems  The executive also acknowledged Transocean’s probe of the
disaster didn’t include any review of problems with the
driller’s safety systems.  Asked if the investigation found any management failures
that led to the blast and spill, Ambrose said investigators
limited themselves “to what happened on the rig.”  BP attorney John deGravelles said that a year before the
blast, four workers on Transocean’s worldwide drilling
operations were killed and some executives had written in
internal memos about the firm’s “lost safety culture.”  Ambrose said the Deepwater Horizon investigative team
didn’t consider earlier safety issues as part of the review of
the rig’s blowout. “That was a different set of issues,” he
said.  He also said a broken piece of the rig’s drilling equipment
remained unfixed for a long period of time. The faulty rotary
table wasn’t a priority because it wasn’t “used that much
anymore,” Ambrose said.  The case is In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, 10-md-02179,
U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana ( New
Orleans ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allen Johnson Jr. in federal court in New Orleans;
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net ; Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware
at   jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  