-- Record Build America Bonds Rally Defies Subsidy Cut: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-03-26T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/record-build-america-bonds-rally-defies-subsidy-cut-muni-credit.html
The $188 billion Build America Bond
market is extending a record rally as investors bet that
municipal issuers repairing their finances can withstand reduced
federal subsidies on the debt.  Under so-called sequestration that began March 1, $85
billion in federal spending cuts will be made for the fiscal
year ending Sept. 30. That includes reducing the originally
promised 35 percent subsidy on Build America Bonds to about 32
percent for U.S. states and cities from  Hawaii  to  Maine .  Investors in the taxable securities remain undeterred,
betting that improving revenue and a housing rebound will allow
municipalities to shoulder the burden. The extra yield on the
debt relative to U.S. Treasuries narrowed last week to  1.19
percentage points , the smallest since the program began in 2009,
Wells Fargo & Co. data show.  “The fundamentals for munis continue to get better and the
spread action on Build Americas is certainly reflecting that,”
said Dan Close, who oversees $1.4 billion of the debt across six
funds in  Chicago  for Nuveen Investments. “This is still a
sector that can demonstrate spread compression.”  Popular Securities  The bonds were created as part of President  Barack Obama ’s
2009 stimulus package, spurring localities to use the proceeds
for infrastructure projects after the longest recession since
the 1930s. It became the fastest-growing part of the $3.7
trillion muni market, with buyers attracted to the securities’
higher yields and issuers rushing to take advantage of the
program before it expired at the end of 2010.  U.S. state tax collections have grown for 11 straight
quarters, beginning in the first three months of 2010, according
to a February report from the Nelson A. Rockefeller Institute of
Government. The revenue has exceeded pre-recession levels since
September 2011, according to the  Albany , New York-based research
group.  At the municipal level, purchases of new U.S. homes jumped
in January by the most since 1993, Commerce Department  figures 
show. Sales surged 15.6 percent to a 437,000 annual pace, the
highest since July 2008. February data will be released today.
Property taxes have made up at least two-thirds of total local-
government revenue over the last 20 years, the institute said.  Resisting Reduction  As states and cities have balanced their budgets, the U.S.
government’s debt has swelled to more than  $16 trillion . The
Build America program’s 35 percent subsidy on interest cost the
U.S. about $3.4 billion a year, and was among hundreds of areas
to see reductions as a result of legislation passed in 2011 to
shrink the federal deficit by $1.2 trillion over a decade.  “I had actually expected BABs would weaken early in March
because people would focus on sequestration,” said Kathleen McNamara, a municipal strategist in New York at UBS Wealth
Management, which oversees about $90 billion in local debt.
“Enough investors felt that these issuers of BABs would be able
to withstand the subsidy cut.”  Build America Bonds have returned 0.7 percent this year,
outpacing the 0.4 percent gain for all munis and the 0.5 percent
loss on Treasuries, Bank of America Merrill Lynch data show. The
muni securities are on a pace for a record fifth-straight
quarter of earning more than the broad market.  Maryland BABs  Even Build America Bonds from states most imperiled by
federal cutbacks rallied this month. A  Maryland  security
maturing in 2024 traded March 20 with the highest volume since
September 2010, and at an average yield of 2.51 percent, the
lowest ever, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Maryland, which borders the nation’s capital, is one of
four Aaa rated states Moody’s Investors Service has on negative
outlook -- the same as the U.S. -- because they’re “highly
dependent” on federal employment or transfer payments.  One exception to the rally has been Build America Bonds
with features known as par call provisions. John Hallacy at Bank
of America and Tom Weyl at Barclays Plc were among analysts who
wrote reports warning a portion of Build America Bonds could be
repurchased below market prices because of subsidy cuts.  Columbus,  Ohio , the state capital, was one such issuer to
sell debt with a par call provision. A bond maturing in 2023
traded March 14 at an average yield of 4.1 percent, up from 2.61
percent at the start of the year, Bloomberg data show. The price
has dropped to about 106 cents on the dollar from 115 cents.  Fast Forward  Obama last month called for new securities called America
Fast Forward Bonds to boost state and local government spending
on infrastructure projects. They would be similar to Build
America debt.  After seeing promised grants cut back, states and cities
will be less keen to use such a program, McNamara said. The
scarce supply of Build Americas will only further enhance their
appeal to investors, she said.  “When these bonds were first issued, it was probably the
furthest thing from issuers’ minds that Congress would reduce
the subsidy,” McNamara said. “The trust has been breached, but
they continue to perform well.”  At 2.01 percent, yields on benchmark 10-year munis have
exceeded the interest rate on comparable-maturity Treasuries for
nine straight trading days, the longest span since October,
Bloomberg data show. The ratio is about 105 percent, compared
with an average of about 92 percent since 2001.  The elevated ratio may be attracting crossover buyers such
as hedge funds, Nuveen’s Close said. The higher the percentage,
the cheaper local bonds are relative to their federal
counterparts.  States and cities are set to borrow just $3.5 billion this
week, the least since the period through Jan. 4, Bloomberg  data 
show. The smaller supply comes after the market set back-to-back
records this year for issuance in the past two weeks.  Following are pending sales:  SAN BERNARDINO COMMUNITY COLLEGE DISTRICT in California is
set to sell $280 million of tax-exempt and taxable bonds as soon
as this week, Bloomberg data show. Proceeds will be used for
refunding. Moody’s Investors Service rates the debt Aa2, third-
highest. (Added March 26)  ILLINOIS plans to issue $800 million of general-obligation
bonds via competitive sale April 2, Bloomberg data show. The
state postponed a $500 million offer in January after S&P
downgraded it to A-, six steps below AAA. Illinois is the
company’s lowest-rated U.S. state. (Updated March 26)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  