-- Revel Files for Bankruptcy 11 Months After Opening
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n   a n d   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2013-03-26T14:48:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/revel-files-for-bankruptcy-11-months-after-opening.html
Revel AC Inc., owner of an  Atlantic
City ,  New Jersey , casino that opened in April, filed for
bankruptcy after reaching an agreement with lenders on a debt-
for-equity swap.  Revel listed $1.1 billion in assets and $1.5 billion in
debt in a filing yesterday in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in Camden,
New Jersey. It asked U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Judith H. Wizmur to
schedule a May 13 hearing on the lender-backed reorganization
plan. When enough creditors support a so-called prepackaged
bankruptcy, companies can exit Chapter 11 more quickly than
normal.  Revel said in a statement yesterday that it plans to
complete the restructuring before summer. Under the pre-
negotiated bankruptcy, lenders agreed to a plan that will cut
Revel’s debt by more than 82 percent to $272 million from
$1.52 billion, the company said. The lenders also agreed to
provide about $250 million in so-called debtor-in-possession
financing, according to the statement.  “Revel’s debt burden, in the context of numerous broader
challenges facing the Atlantic City casino market and certain
startup issues unique to Revel, has proven unsustainable,” the
company said in the Chapter 11 filing.  Casinos in Atlantic City have struggled with competition
from new gambling venues in Philadelphia about 60 miles (97
kilometers) away and a weak economy. Wizmur also oversaw the
bankruptcy of Trump Entertainment Resorts Inc., the Atlantic
City casino company named after, and once partly owned by,
 Donald Trump .  Hurricane Sandy  Revel, Atlantic City’s first new casino since 2003, opened
in April at a cost of $2.6 billion before being closed for five
days starting Oct. 28 because of  Hurricane Sandy . Gambling
revenue in Atlantic City fell 13 percent in January to
$205.6 million, the New Jersey Attorney General’s Office said in
a Feb. 11 statement.  The Revel casino and resort, on Atlantic City’s Boardwalk,
has about 130,000 square feet of gaming space, with 2,400  slot
machines , 130 table games and a poker room, according to the
bankruptcy filing. The resort has 1,399 rooms, indoor and
outdoor pools, 11 restaurants, two night clubs and a 5,500-seat
theater. The resort employs about 5,500 people.  Debt Swap  Under the restructuring plan, creditors will swap debt for
equity and Revel Group will no longer own the casino, the
company said earlier this month. Revel Group will keep in place
a licensing agreement so the casino can continue to use the
Revel name, the company said.  The restructuring plan won approval of more than three-
quarters of claim holders under various credit agreements, Revel
said in the bankruptcy filing yesterday.  “Backed by overwhelming lender support, we remain on track
to complete our financial restructuring ahead of the critical
summer season,” Jeffrey Hartmann, Revel’s interim chief
executive officer, said in yesterday’s statement.  Revel appointed Hartmann, a gambling consultant, to the CEO
post on March 13 to run the company as it reorganizes. Revel
Chairman Kevin DeSanctis gave up day-to-day operations and
remains CEO and chairman of Revel’s holding company, Revel
Group.  Kirkland & Ellis LLP is Revel’s legal adviser in connection
with the restructuring. Alvarez & Marsal Inc. is the
restructuring adviser, and Moelis & Co. is the investment
banker.  Second-Lowest  Revel had the second-lowest gambling revenue among the
market’s 12 resorts in January, according to data from the New
Jersey Division of Gaming Enforcement compiled by Bloomberg
Industries analysts.  Revel has struggled to generate revenue to cover its
interest costs since it opened. The company received
$150 million in additional funding from lenders in December to
help back its gaming projects.  The casino project was the centerpiece of Governor  Chris Christie ’s efforts to revitalize gambling in the state after six
years of decline. Christie, a Republican in his first term,
jump-started the project with $261 million in state tax
incentives.  The case is In re Revel AC Inc., 13-16253. U.S.  Bankruptcy
Court , District of New Jersey (Camden).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  