-- Rice Exports From India Seen at Record as Harvest to Rebound
-- B y   P r a b h u d a t t a   M i s h r a   a n d   P r a t i k   P a r i j a
-- 2013-03-26T10:24:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/rice-exports-from-india-seen-at-record-as-harvest-set-to-rebound.html
Rice exports from  India , the
world’s second-largest grower, are poised to reach a record for
a second year as the harvest may rebound on normal monsoon rain,
potentially widening a global surplus.  Shipments will climb 5 percent to 10.5 million metric tons
in the year beginning April, according to the median of
estimates from six exporters, a government official and an
industry executive compiled by Bloomberg. Output may jump to an
all-time high of 110 million tons in the season beginning July,
according to Vijay Setia, a former president of the All India
Rice Exporters Association.  Surging exports from India may add to global food supplies
as farmers from  Vietnam  to  China  are preparing to plant a record
rice crop. Stockpiles in  Thailand  have surged to an all-time
high as the government buys supplies from farmers, while exports
from Myanmar and  Cambodia  have expanded. The glut may further
curb world  food costs  which tumbled for five straight months
through February.  “Prices may be depressed if Thailand starts putting a lot
of supply in the market and India continues its exports,” said
 Concepcion Calpe , the secretary of the  United Nations ’ Food &
Agriculture Organization’s inter-governmental rice group, who
has tracked the market since 1998. “Vietnam has a lot of
supplies and Myanmar is also trying to gain more markets.”  Global Surplus  Global production of rice, the staple for half the world,
will climb 1.2 percent to 472 million tons next year, while
stockpiles in five largest shippers are estimated at 38 million
tons, equals to one year of imports, according to International
Grains Council data. World inventories are forecast at a record
171 million tons in 2012-2013 as supply beats consumption for an
eighth season, according to the FAO.  The monsoon, which accounts for more than 70 percent of
India’s annual rainfall, will be normal for the third time in
four years in 2013 and chances of a drought are only 4 percent,
according to Jatin Singh, chief executive of Skymet Weather
Services Pvt., who correctly predicted a drought in 2009. That
may boost rice planting, according to Setia.  “There is no reason why we cannot boost exports next year
when monsoon will be normal,” Setia said. Shipments reached a
record even after a drought cut output in 2012-2013, he said.
Production may drop to 101.8 million tons in the year ending
June from 105.3 million tons a year earlier, according to the
farm ministry.  Shipments from India may fall if Thailand decides to
offload its stockpiles, said R. Sundaresan,  executive director 
at the rice exporters association.  Thai Inventories  Stockpiles in Thailand jumped after Prime Minister Yingluck
Shinawatra started buying from farmers in 2011, fulfilling an
election pledge to boost rural incomes. The country may run out
of warehouse space as reserves jump 40 percent to a record 18.2
million tons, according to the United Nations.  Prices in Vietnam, an Asian benchmark, will drop 6.6
percent by December to $377.50 a ton, the lowest level since
2010, based on the median of 10 trader estimates published by
Bloomberg on March 5. Rough-rice futures traded on the Chicago
Board of Trade, which have declined 1.6 percent this year,
traded little changed at $14.940 per 100 pounds today.  “If prices fall, the African countries and the Near East
markets will benefit and it could even be that there will be
increased flow of Asian rice into  Latin America ,” Calpe said.  Exports from Myanmar, formerly the largest shipper, gained
to 600,000 tons in 2012-2013 from 388,000 tons a decade ago,
according to the U.S. Department of Agriculture data. Cambodia’s
overseas trade may total 975,000 tons this year from 10,000 tons
in 2002-2003.  Food Bill  India is exporting rice mainly to Africa and  Bangladesh  at
about $395 a ton, while the premium basmati rice is sold at
about $990 per ton to the  Middle East ,  Iran  and  Europe ,
according to data from state-run Agricultural and Processed Food
Products Export Development Authority. Basmati exports account
for about 25 percent of total sales, the data showed.  India’s exports will depend on monsoon and domestic
requirement to run a food security bill, said Samarendu Mohanty,
a senior economist at the Philippines-based International Rice
Research Institute. Any decline in shipments from India will be
met by increased sales from Thailand, which will nullify the
impact on prices, he said.  India’s cabinet on March 19 approved changes to the food
security bill that grants 67 percent of the population the right
to buy grains at subsidized rates. The government will need 61.2
million tons of grains to implement the bill, which seeks to
guarantee 5 kilograms (11 pounds) of grain a month per person.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Prabhudatta Mishra in  New Delhi  at 
 pmishra8@bloomberg.net ;
Pratik Parija in New Delhi at 
 pparija@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  