-- Richmond Fed Service Firm Survey for March (Text)
-- B y   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2013-03-26T14:07:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/richmond-fed-service-firm-survey-for-march-text-.html
The following is the text from
the Richmond Federal Reserve Bank’s service sector activity
survey for March.  Overview  Service sector activity slowed in March, according to the latest
survey by the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond. Retail sales
contracted, pulled down by an abrupt decline in shopper traffic
and big-ticket sales. In addition, retailers drew down
inventories. Non-retail revenues grew modestly.
Employment edged up in the overall service sector, as a sharp
drop in retail hiring was eclipsed by an uptick in hiring among
the remainder of service sector firms. Wage growth slowed,
however.  The pace of price increases in the broad service sector also
slowed. Survey participants expected slower price growth in the
six months ahead compared to last month’s outlook.  Overall Service Sector Conditions  Service sector revenues grew more slowly in March, with the
index softening to 4 from February’s 11. Hiring in the overall
service sector continued to inch up however, pushing the index
for the number of employees three points higher to a reading of
6. Average wage growth moderated, weakening the broad wage index
by nine points to 5. Looking ahead six months, survey
respondents were somewhat less confident about their business
prospects. The expectations index lost five points compared to
February’s reading to settle at 11.  Retail  Retail activity slumped in March. Retail sales contracted
sharply, collapsing the index to a reading of -18 following
February’s 19. Big-ticket sales fell, dragging that index down
to -25 from 27. Further, shopper traffic dropped, with the index
ending the March survey period at -25 compared to 15 last month.
Retailers reined in their inventories, pulling that index to -
22; in February, the reading was 27. Retailers’ outlook for the
next six months deteriorated, bringing that index twenty-seven
points below the month-ago reading to end at -36.
Merchants reduced payrolls in March, pulling the index for the
number of employees to -22 from the previous reading of -4. The
index for average wages also plummeted to a reading of -11
compared to 16 in February.  SOURCE: Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Tanzi in  Washington  at 
 atanzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  