-- Richmond Fed Manufacturing Survey for March (Text)
-- B y   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2013-03-26T14:08:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/richmond-fed-manufacturing-survey-for-march-text-.html
The following is the text of
the Richmond Federal Reserve Bank’s manufacturing sector
activity survey for March.  Manufacturing activity in the central Atlantic region expanded
at a slower pace in March after rebounding in February,
according to the Richmond Fed’s latest survey. Looking at the
main components of activity, factory shipments and employment
remained in positive territory, while the volume of new orders
declined somewhat. Other indicators also suggested softer
activity. Capacity utilization and delivery times turned
negative, and the gauge for backlogs fell further. In addition,
finished goods inventories grew at a slightly slower rate.  Looking ahead, manufacturers in March were more optimistic about
their future business prospects. An increasing number of
contacts anticipated faster growth for shipments, new orders,
backlogs capacity utilization and capital expenditures compared
to a month ago.
Survey participants indicated that both raw materials and
finished goods prices grew at a slightly slower pace than in
February. Over the next six months, respondents expected both
raw
materials and finished goods prices to grow at a slightly slower
rate than they had anticipated a month earlier.  Current Activity  In March, the seasonally adjusted composite index of
manufacturing activity--our broadest measure of manufacturing--
lost three points settling at 3 from February’s reading of 6.
Among the index’s components, shipments slipped two points to 8,
the gauge for new orders moved down four points to end at -4,
and the jobs index added one point to end at 9.  Other indicators also suggested weaker activity in March. The
index for capacity utilization turned negative, losing fourteen
points to -3, and the index for backlogs of orders dropped two
points to finish at -14. The delivery times index edged down two
points end at -2, while gauges for our inventories were mixed in
March.The raw materials inventory index increased six points to
finish at 22, and the finished goods inventories moved down two
points to end at 10.  SOURCE: Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Tanzi in Washington at 
 atanzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  