-- Russia, South Africa Seek to Create OPEC-Style Platinum Bloc
-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v   a n d   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2013-03-27T11:16:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/russia-south-africa-seek-to-create-opec-style-platinum-bloc.html
Russia  and South Africa, countries
that hold about 80 percent of platinum group metal reserves,
plan to set up an OPEC-type trading bloc to coordinate exports.  “It can be called an OPEC,” Russian Natural Resources
Minister Sergey Donskoy said late yesterday in an interview in
Durban. “Our goal is to coordinate our actions accordingly to
expand the markets. The price depends on the structure of the
market, and we will form the structure of the market.”  South Africa mines about 70 percent of the world’s platinum
and Russia 40 percent of its palladium, a metal from the same
group used to cut car pollution,  Johnson Matthey Plc (JMAT)  said in a
2012 report. Other nations would be able to join the group. The
U.S., Zimbabwe and  Canada  are among producers of the metals. The
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries is an oil cartel.  Platinum and palladium prices rose following yesterday’s
comments by Donskoy. South Africa and Russia signed only a
“framework” accord, he said, with details yet to be decided.  “We are now forming working groups to work out joint
actions on this market,” Donskoy said. “There will be a
meeting in the summer to discuss mechanisms in detail.”  South African Mines Minister Susan Shabangu said the deal
sought to counter oversupply of platinum, possibly through taxes
and incentives. “We’re not really controlling the market,” she
said in an interview in Durban. “We want to contribute without
creating a cartel, but we want to influence the markets.”  Biggest Producers  Anglo American Platinum Ltd. (AMS) , the biggest producer, fell
2.3 percent by 12:36 p.m. in Johannesburg after a 1.8 percent
gain yesterday. OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel, the No.1 in palladium,
slid 0.4 percent in Moscow after a 1.5 percent jump yesterday.  “We will give access to minerals and then incentivize
companies to add value locally,” Lionel October, director
general of South Africa’s Trade Ministry, said today in an
interview in Durban. “The rest is market driven.”  Platinum today fell 0.4 percent and palladium 1.2 percent.  “We view this announcement as supportive for PGM prices
but also as somewhat of a long shot,” Albert Minassian, an
analyst at Investec Ltd., said in a note. “Ultimately only a
reduction in supply can push prices up sufficiently to maintain
investment in the industry, on any practical horizon.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net ;
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  