-- Russia’s Sberbank Said Sole Bidder for Citi’s Turkey Assets
-- B y   S i b e l   A k b a y
-- 2013-03-27T10:10:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/russia-s-sberbank-said-sole-bidder-for-citigroup-s-turkey-assets.html
Turkey’s Denizbank AS, owned by
 Russia ’s OAO Sberbank, submitted the sole offer for  Citigroup
Inc. (C) ’s Turkish retail unit after rivals decided against bidding
for the assets, two people familiar with the matter said.  Odeabank, the Turkish unit of Lebanon’s  Banque Audi SAL-
Audi Saradar Group (AUDI) , is among banks which decided the business
lacked scale and chose not to bid for the 37 branches, one of
the people said, asking not to be named as talks are private.  Citigroup said Dec. 5 it would sell or scale back consumer
operations in Turkey, Pakistan, Romania, Uruguay and Paraguay as
the New York-based bank cuts costs under new chief executive
officer  Michael Corbat . It said commercial and corporate-banking
services in Turkey will continue. Adam Castellani, a spokesman
for the bank in  London , wasn’t immediately available to comment.  “Citi really just wants to exit and go,” said Ovunc Gursoy, an analyst at Yapi Kredi Yatirim Menkul Degerler in
Istanbul. “The retail unit is not exactly a profitable business
either. Citi may be satisfied if it gets just book value.”  Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS (GARAN) , the country’s largest bank by
market value, denied reports last month that it was involved in
the bidding. The Citigroup consumer unit wasn’t large enough for
HSBC, Sabah newspaper cited Martin Spurling, chief executive
officer of its Turkey unit, as saying last week.  Citigroup’s retail unit in Turkey may be valued at about
$270 million, according to one of the sources.  Boost Presence  Investors from the  Middle East , Russia and  Asia  are seeking
to boost their presence in Turkey with acquisitions and
licenses. Commercial Bank of Qatar QSC, Qatar’s second-largest
bank, said last week it agreed to buy a 70.8 percent stake in
Turkey’s Alternatifbank AS at two times book value. The Middle
East’s biggest lender, Qatar National Bank SAQ, said in December
it may target stakes in Turkey’s major banks. Dubai-based
Emirates NBD PJSC has also expressed interest in acquisitions.  Denizbank gained 0.9 percent to 10.70 liras today at 10:46
a.m. in Istanbul.  Sberbank bought Denizbank in June last year for $3.8
billion or 1.3 times book value. Sberbank shareholders have
voiced concerned whether the Citigroup deal is needed after last
year’s Denizbank acquisition, one of the people said  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sibel Akbay in Istanbul at 
 sakbay@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  