-- Same-Sex Marriage Law Has Four Possible Paths
-- B y   C a s s   R .   S u n s t e i n
-- 2013-03-26T14:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/same-sex-marriage-law-has-four-possible-paths.html
(Corrects name of state to Idaho in 14th paragraph in
article originally published on March 26.)  Judges and lawyers think in terms
of analogies. For this week’s  Supreme Court  arguments involving
 same-sex marriage , the available analogies include some of the
most famous rulings in the court’s history.  Many people are hoping for what they would see as a heroic
decision, requiring states to recognize same-sex marriages. In
their view, the court has an opportunity to issue this
generation’s  Brown v. Board of Education .  In the 1954 Brown ruling, a unanimous court struck down
school segregation, famously declaring that separate is
inherently unequal. A lot of people think exactly the same
should be said about separate legal status for same-sex couples.  Brown was exceptionally controversial in its time, but it
has been vindicated by history. Indeed, it commands near-
complete agreement. No justice is likely to want to participate
in another  Plessy v. Ferguson , the 1896 case upholding racial
segregation that Brown overruled.  Other people insist that the court should allow state and
federal governments to define marriage as they like. In their
view, the best analogy is  Roe v. Wade . Many people (including
Associate Justice  Ruth Bader Ginsburg ) believe that with its
broad pro-choice ruling in Roe, the court badly overreached.  To agree with Roe’s critics, it isn’t necessary to think
that human life begins at conception or that abortion is a
morally unacceptable act. The  central  objection is that the
abortion right lacks clear constitutional foundations -- and
that in its first encounter with the abortion question, the
court wrongly pre-empted democratic processes and imposed a
national solution of its own.  Roe’s Critics  To Roe’s critics, the court engaged in an act of hubris,
aggravating political polarization in a way that has had
enduring and harmful consequences for American democracy. If the
court essentially requires states to recognize same-sex
marriage, will it be creating this generation’s Roe?  If so, the right path isn’t one of heroism but of
restraint, and the closest analogy is the court’s 1937 decision
in  West Coast Hotel Co. v. Parrish . In that case, the court
rejected the view that the Constitution creates a broad right to
freedom of contract, which had raised serious doubts about
minimum-wage and maximum-hour legislation.  The court made it clear that the federal government and the
states have a great deal of authority to set economic policy,
free from constitutional limitations. With respect to  same-sex
marriage , some people think the court should show a similar
degree of constitutional humility, insisting that democratic
arenas, and not federal courts, are the proper location for the
resolution of current disputes.  Other observers want the court to avoid both heroism and
restraint. To them, the court should display the unique virtue
of not deciding.  Outside of law schools, the court’s 1956 action in  Naim v.
Naim  is barely known, but that obscure case has helped to define
a whole school of constitutional thought. Not long after
deciding Brown, the justices were asked to strike down a ban on
racial intermarriage. The court refused to hear the case.
Protecting its political capital in a period in which it was
repeatedly accused of “activism,” it remained silent on bans
on racial intermarriage. (It was not until 1967 that the court
finally ruled against such bans, apparently with the thought
that the nation was ready for that ruling.)  Some lawyers and judges celebrate the “passive virtues”
of not deciding, especially in a period of intense democratic
debate and division. They think the court would do best to
follow what they see as the honorable caution of Naim v. Naim --
and find ways to punt.  Another Analogy  But football teams hate punting, and the same may be true
of the court. Some of its members might be tempted to draw on
another analogy that, while publicly obscure, is well-known
among judges and constitutional specialists.  In its 1971 decision in  Reed v. Reed  -- its first serious
effort to engage the problem of sex discrimination -- the court
took the path of minimalism. Striking down an odd  Idaho  law that
gave a preference to men over women as administrators of
estates, the court declined to issue a broad pronouncement that
would immediately threaten all discrimination on the basis of
sex.  Instead it began a long series of case-by-case rulings --
accompanying, but not pre-empting, democratic judgments -- that
ultimately produced strong safeguards against such
discrimination.  With respect to same-sex marriage, the court might be able
to adopt a similar approach. For example, the  Justice Department 
has sketched some ways for the court to rule relatively
narrowly, striking down the laws in question while avoiding the
broadest pronouncement about marriage equality.  The arguments this week pose an unusually stark choice
among the radically different paths of heroism, restraint, not
deciding and minimalism. The lawyers will be offering some
highly technical arguments. But the competing analogies, and
history’s likely verdict, loom large in the background.  (Cass R. Sunstein, the Robert Walmsley University Professor
at  Harvard Law School , is a Bloomberg View columnist. He is the
former administrator of the White House Office of Information
and Regulatory Affairs, the co-author of “Nudge” and author of
“Simpler: The Future of Government,” to be published in April.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Cass R. Sunstein at  csunstei@law.harvard.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net  