-- Saudi Aramco to Become World’s Top Oil Refiner, Al-Falih Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-26T05:59:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/saudi-aramco-to-become-world-s-top-oil-refiner-al-falih-says.html
Saudi Arabian Oil Co., the world’s
biggest crude exporter, also expects to become the top producer
of refined products such as fuel and petrochemicals, according
to Khalid al-Falih, the company’s chief executive.  “In the years to come, we will become the world’s single
largest oil refiner,” al-Falih said at a conference in Beijing
today.  Saudi Aramco , as the company is known, is expanding
refining and petrochemical production to meet domestic demand
and export products that can fetch higher prices than crude. It
plans to double its global refining capacity to 8 million
barrels a day in 10 years, al-Falih said in the eastern Saudi
city of Dhahran in January 2012. Exxon Mobil Corp. the world’s
largest integrated crude processor, had  5.4 million  barrels a
day of capacity worldwide at the end of 2012, according to its
financial and operating review.  Aramco’s Satorp plant, 37.5 percent owned by Paris-based
Total SA, is set to become  Saudi Arabia ’s largest facility on
the  Persian Gulf  with an overseas partner when it starts this
year. The refinery in Jubail on the coast will be able to
process 400,000 barrels of Arab Heavy crude a day. The companies
have also agreed in principle to expand the plant, Christophe De
Margerie, Total’s chief executive, said in Abu Dhabi Jan. 15.  Aramco has finalized negotiations with Pertamina Persero PT
to build an $8 billion refinery in  Indonesia  with a capacity of
300,000 barrels a day, the Saudi Gazette newspaper reported Feb.
5, citing Indonesian Industry Minister Mohammed Hidayat.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah Chen in Beijing at 
 schen514@bloomberg.net ;
Ramsey Al-Rikabi in Singapore at 
 ralrikabi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  