-- HSBC Shuts Russia’s Hermitage as Browder Sued in London
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 2013-03-26T14:27:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/hsbc-shutters-hermitage-fund-as-russia-chases-browder-in-courts.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  is closing
Hermitage Capital Management Ltd.’s flagship  Russia  fund just as
its co-founder,  William Browder , is being sued for libel in
 London  and tried in absentia for  tax evasion  in Moscow.  “It was too small to continue as a viable concern,”
Browder, 48, said by phone yesterday from London, where he’s
based. Browder said the closing is “completely” in the hands
of HSBC, which is the trustee and manager of the fund.  The Hermitage Fund, which Browder started in 1996 with the
late billionaire  Edmond Safra , was the largest foreign owner of
Russian shares when it peaked at more than $4 billion in 2005,
according to Browder. Russia that year barred Browder from the
country without explanation, triggering years of legal conflict,
including over the 2009 death of Hermitage adviser Sergei Magnitsky while he was in pretrial detention in Moscow.  “HSBC has decided to jettison him because Browder is
considered radioactive in Russia,”  Eric Kraus , a fixed-income
manager at Rolnes Ltd. in Moscow, which oversees about $150
million, said in e-mailed comments. “He had one great
competitive advance: he knew how to trade Russia like a Russian
during the Yeltsin years -- a time when it was one of the
world’s least transparent markets.”  Magnitsky’s Death  The decision to shutter the fund has angered at least one
investor, Tim Enneking of Altima Asset Management in Moscow, who
said HSBC units provoked the closing by freezing the fund in
August to assess how much money to set aside for Hermitage’s
legal battles. A former Russian investigator, Pavel Karpov,
filed a libel suit against Browder and Hermitage Capital in the
U.K. over allegations Karpov was involved in Magnitsky’s death.  In January, after redemption requests reached 65 percent of
the frozen fund’s $45.6 million value, HSBC and Browder agreed
to wind up the fund, Enneking said, citing a Jan. 24 letter from
HSBC, which he provided to Bloomberg.  Enneking said HSBC vowed to update investors on the status
of their assets by Feb. 28 and he’s still waiting for answers.
Hermitage has achieved an annualized return of more than 17
percent since its inception in 1996, according to a performance
factsheet issued in June. The fund has invested in companies
such as OAO Gazprom, Russia’s gas monopoly, OAO Lukoil, the
second-biggest oil producer and Evraz Group SA, the steelmaker
part-owned by billionaire  Roman Abramovich .  Browder continues to invest through his global  emerging
markets  fund, set up after he was exiled from Russia. He
declined to say how much assets it had under management.  Sberbank, VTB  HSBC,  Europe ’s largest bank by market value, won’t comment
on the fund’s closing, said Julia Molchanova, a spokeswoman for
the bank in Moscow. Browder declined to comment on the libel
case against him, citing his lawyers’ advice.  HSBC is one of 23 foreign and domestic banks Russia chose
in 2010 to advise the government on its 1 trillion-ruble ($32
billion) privatization program. Since then, HSBC and other
foreign lenders including  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and Banco Santander SA
have abandoned consumer banking in Russia as state-run  OAO
Sberbank (SBER)  and VTB Group gained market share.  The British lender is now focusing its Russian operations
on debt sales, loan financing and export credits, Mark Stadler,
HSBC’s country chief, said in an interview in October.  Browder, a U.S. native and British citizen, has been
battling the Russian government with a campaign for legislation
in the U.S., Europe and  Canada  to punish 60 Russian officials he
says are responsible for Magnitsky’s death.  Diplomatic Row  Magnitsky, who died at 37, was arrested on tax-evasion
charges after he and Browder accused Russian officials of using
Hermitage documents to swindle $230 million from the national
treasury, a charge the government denies. The case sparked a
diplomatic row, with the U.S. imposing sanctions on the Russian
officials and Russia retaliating by barring American citizens
from adopting Russian orphans.  On March 22, a Moscow court put Browder and the deceased
Magnitsky on trial, represented by court-appointed attorneys.
They are accused of evading 522 million rubles of taxes. Browder
has denied any wrongdoing by either him or Magnitsky, saying
March 19 that Russia is “officially defending Magnitsky’s
torturers and killers.”  ‘Perfectly Legal’  The  Interior Ministry  this month opened a case against
Browder for another alleged crime -- buying shares of  state-run
Gazprom  before restrictions on foreign ownership of the world’s
largest gas producer were lifted. Browder and “structures” he
created caused at least 3 billion rubles of damage to the state
by buying local Gazprom shares and seeking to influence the
company in 1999 to 2004, the Interior Ministry said.  Browder said buying Gazprom shares through “derivative
structures” was “perfectly legal” during that time.  Hermitage’s relationship with HSBC continues to cause
headaches for the U.K. lender, according to Browder. Russian
investigators are threatening to seize documents from HSBC’s
Moscow offices unless HSBC hands over financial and other
information about Hermitage dating back to 1996, Browder said in
an e-mailed statement Feb. 15.  Andrei Pilipchuk, a spokesman for the Interior Ministry,
declined to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  