-- Scotland Approves Wind Farm That Donald Trump Vows to Fight
-- B y   L o u i s e   D o w n i n g   a n d   T i m   F a r r a n d
-- 2013-03-26T14:11:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/scotland-approves-vattenfall-backed-offshore-wind-test-site.html
The Scottish government approved a
plan to build a wind farm off the coast of Aberdeen that was
opposed by billionaire  New York  investor  Donald Trump  because
it’s in sight of his championship golf course.  The European Offshore Wind Deployment Centre, a venture
between Vattenfall AB,  Technip SA (TEC)  and Aberdeen Renewable Energy
Group, will be allowed to build 11 wind turbines capable of
generating enough power for more than 49,000 homes, the
government said today in a  statement . The project will cost more
than 230 million pounds ($349 million), according to the
companies.  “This was a purely political decision,” Trump said in a
statement. “We will spend whatever monies are necessary to see
to it that these huge and unsightly industrial wind turbines are
never constructed.”  Trump has been in conflict with Scottish First Minister
 Alex Salmond  for more than a year over his goal of making the
country the hub of European wind power by generating all of its
electricity from renewable sources by 2020.  Trump reiterated today that he would file a lawsuit to stop
“the destruction of Aberdeen and  Scotland  itself.” George Sorial, the executive in charge of developing a resort around
his Scottish golf course, said in a Feb. 12 interview that Trump
would fight the proposal in court for years if necessary.  Golf Resort  Trump last year deferred a plan to build a five-star hotel,
500 homes and 950 rental apartments at the 750 million-pound
resort because of the energy project. He confirmed today that
the development will remain on hold unless the proposal is
defeated.  “The Scottish government is committed to the successful
and sustainable development of an offshore wind sector,” Fergus Ewing, energy, enterprise and tourism minister, said in the
statement. The industry may contribute more than 7 billion
pounds to Scotland’s economy and support as many as 28,000
direct jobs and an additional 20,000 indirect jobs by 2020, the
government said.  Aberdeen Offshore Wind Farm will build a wind-testing
center off Aberdeen to enable developers to study their
technologies at sea before commercial deployment, enabling them
to reduce development risks and  capital costs , according to the
statement. The new  wind turbines  will be capable of producing as
much as 100 megawatts, enough to meet the needs of almost half
the homes in the city of Aberdeen.  The turbines will be installed 1.5 miles (2.4 kilometers)
out to sea. They will be 651 feet (198 meters) high to the tip
of the blades, more than the London tower known as the Gherkin.  Trump told Scottish lawmakers last year he had had
assurances from Salmond and his predecessor, Jack McConnell,
that the wind-farm plan wouldn’t proceed because of objections
from the U.K. Ministry of Defence. The ministry dropped its
opposition earlier this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Louise Downing in London at 
 ldowning4@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Farrand in Edinburgh at 
 tfarrand@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  