-- Shadow Inventory of Distressed Homes Falls to 4-Year Low
-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 2013-03-26T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/shadow-inventory-of-distressed-homes-falls-to-4-year-low.html
The overhang of pending
foreclosures dropped to a four-year low in January as housing
demand increased and fewer borrowers were late with mortgage
payments, according to  CoreLogic Inc. (CLGX)   The so-called  shadow inventory  -- homes that are seriously
delinquent, in the foreclosure process or owned by banks and not
listed for sale -- fell 18 percent from a year earlier to about
2.2 million homes, the  Irvine , California-based real estate data
company reported today. That’s the lowest level since December
2008 and down from the peak of 3 million homes in the first
month of 2010, according to CoreLogic.  The improving  economy  and a surge in home purchases by
investors are keeping distressed properties off the market as
housing  rebounds  from a five-year slump. The overhang is
disappearing fastest in western states such as Arizona and
California, where banks don’t need court approval to seize
properties. It can take years to foreclose on homes in judicial
states such as  Florida , New York and  New Jersey .  “The shadow inventory is declining as properties are
moving through the distressed pipeline,”  Mark Fleming , chief
economist for CoreLogic, said in a statement. “States like
Arizona, California and Colorado are experiencing significant
declines year over year in the stock of serious delinquencies, a
positive sign for further improvement.”  Arizona had a 40 percent decline in serious delinquencies
in January from a year earlier, more than any other state,
followed by California, Colorado, Michigan and Wyoming,
CoreLogic said.  Seriously delinquent  U.S. mortgages fell to the lowest
level since 2008 in the fourth quarter as job growth and
recovering housing demand enabled struggling borrowers to sell
without losing money, the  Mortgage Bankers Association  said on
Feb. 21.  Home repossessions tumbled 29 percent last month from a
year earlier to the fewest since September 2007, according to
RealtyTrac, an Irvine, California-based data company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prashant Gopal in Boston at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  