-- Sharp and Foxconn Continue Talks as Deadline Expires
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n   a n d   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2013-03-26T08:44:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/sharp-and-foxconn-said-to-continue-talks-as-deadline-pass.html
Foxconn Technology Group and  Sharp
Corp. (6753)  will continue talks after the deadline to complete an
investment agreement made a year ago passed today.  Payment from the Taiwanese electronics group was not made
by the deadline, and Sharp will review the amount and terms,
including examining other funding methods, the Osaka-based
company said in a  statement  today.  Sharp, the unprofitable maker of Aquos TVs, display panels
and refrigerators, on March 27 last year  announced  Foxconn group
companies would buy a 9.9 percent stake for 66.9 billion yen
($709 million). Foxconn’s billionaire founder Terry Gou invested
66 billion yen of his own funds to buy a stake in the Osaka-
based company’s TV-panel unit, later renamed Sakai Display
Products Corp.  Both companies have been unable to resolve differences
about control and no agreement is expected in the near term, two
people familiar with the talks told  Bloomberg News , asking not
to be identified as the talks are private.  Sharp and Foxconn will continue discussing tie-ups which
may or may not include a share sale to Foxconn under different
terms, said  Miyuki Nakayama , a Sharp Tokyo-based spokeswoman.  Sharp’s offer period for 121.6 million new shares at 550
yen each ran from May 31 to March 26, the Japanese company said
in a  statement  at the time.  In November, Sharp widened its full-year loss forecast to
450 billion yen and said there was “material doubt” about its
ability to survive. Since then, the television maker has agreed
to sell stakes to  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM)  and Samsung Electronics Co.  Laura Liu, a spokeswoman for Foxconn’s flagship Hon Hai
Precision Industry Co., declined to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Fenner in Melbourne at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Fenner at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net  