-- Shell Plans to Spend $1 Billion a Year on China Gas
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-28T03:54:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/shell-plans-to-spend-1-billion-on-china-shale-gas-development.html
(Corrects to show annual spending is on unconventional gas
in first paragraph of March 26 story.)  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  will spend $1
billion a year developing  China ’s unconventional gas reserves,
including shale deposits, according to  Peter Voser , the
company’s chief executive.  Shell has won government approval for its production
sharing contract with China National Petroleum Corp., the
nation’s biggest oil and gas company, Voser said in an interview
in Beijing today. He didn’t specify details for the $1 billion
investment.  China is working with overseas partners to introduce
hydraulic fracturing, the technology known as fracking that
breaks open underground shale rocks to release natural gas, as
it seeks to boost domestic consumption of the cleaner-burning
fuel. Shell and CNPC had drilled 24 wells by November and
planned a further 14 this year, Maarten Wetselaar, executive
vice president of Shell Upstream International, said Nov. 15.  “I welcome the aggressive target of the government in the
12th five year plan and its long-term objective to make gas a
significant component of its energy mix,” Voser said today.
“This is the right energy source for the longer term for China
given its advantage from the perspectives of carbon dioxide
versus coal and oil.”  China’s annual gas consumption will increase by 20 billion
cubic meters every year to 230 billion by 2015 under the 12th
five-year plan, the Beijing-based National Energy Administration
said in a Dec. 3 report. About 250 million urban residents, or
18 percent of the population, will use gas by 2015, the report
showed.  Production Sharing  Shell and CNPC, the state-controlled parent of  PetroChina
Co. (857) , agreed to explore, develop and produce shale gas in the
Fushun-Yongchuan block in the Sichuan basin, an area covering
about 3,500 square kilometers (1,350 square miles), London-based
Shell said in a statement on its website in March 2012.  Chinese shale may hold 1,275 trillion cubic feet of
technically recoverable gas, or 12 times the country’s
conventional gas deposits, data from the U.S. Energy Information
Administration show. That’s almost 50 percent more than the 862
trillion cubic feet held by the U.S., according to the EIA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Chen in Beijing at 
 schen514@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  