-- Simpson Thacher, Perkins Coie, Ogletree: Business of Law
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2013-03-26T19:31:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/simpson-thacher-perkins-coie-ogletree-business-of-law.html
Dell Inc. (DELL)  said yesterday it
received proposals from  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  and  Carl Icahn  that
may be superior to Michael Dell’s $24.4 billion buyout plan,
putting pressure on the founder to sweeten his terms or switch
allegiances. The new bidders increase the number of lawyers who
are working on the deal.  Blackstone’s plan values Dell at more than $14.25 a share,
while Icahn would pay $15 a share in cash for as much as 58.1
percent of the stock, Dell said yesterday in a statement that
included their offers. Under both plans, some shares may
continue to be publicly traded. Michael Dell, who proposed
$13.65 a share, is willing to work with third parties on the
alternative plans, the company said.  The challenges, under the “go-shop” provisions of the
original bid, came as Dell struggles to catch up with a new wave
of nimbler competitors in mobile computing and business
services, mean  Michael Dell  could lose control of the firm he
founded in his Texas dorm room in 1984. His plan, backed by
partner Silver Lake Management LLC, was to  retool  Dell as a
maker of data-center gear and software for corporations --
without the scrutiny of public investors.  Blackstone, which proposes a leveraged recapitalization
transaction, is represented by partners David Fox, Daniel Wolf
and Leo Greenberg of Kirkland & Ellis LLP. Under the bid,
investors could choose to get either all cash or equity, subject
to a cap, if they want to stay invested in Dell. The shares
would continue to be publicly traded.  Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP often represents Blackstone,
but it is representing Silver Lake in the original buyout bid.
Debevoise & Plimpton LLP is advising the special committee of
Dell’s board. Hogan Lovells LLP is advising Dell and Wachtell,
Lipton, Rosen & Katz is advising Michael Dell.  Icahn is offering shareholders the option to roll over
their stakes or receive $15 a share in cash, with the amount of
cash to be used limited to $15.65 billion, according to the
statement. Icahn has enlisted Jefferies LLC to conduct due
diligence on Dell.  Icahn’s offer assumes that Southeastern Asset Management
Inc. and T. Rowe Price Group Inc., among the largest Dell
investors after Michael Dell, would contribute their stakes and
won’t receive a cash payment.  Keith Schaitkin, the general counsel of  Icahn Enterprises
LP (IEP) , declined to disclose the lawyers who worked on Icahn’s bid.  For more on the bids, click here.  Moves  Hine, Majumder Join Dallas Office of Perkins Coie  Kelly D. Hine and I. Bobby Majumder joined the Dallas
office of  Perkins Coie  LLP as partners. Three associates have
joined as well, the firm said in a statement.  Hine was most recently a partner at Fish & Richardson PC.
His practice area includes  trade secrets , commercial contracts,
commercial torts, non-disclosure/non-competition agreements,
trademarks, copyrights, antitrust and appellate proceedings. In
addition, his practice involves counseling and litigation of
insurance coverage matters, particularly matters involving
coverage of intellectual property related claims.  Majumder was most recently a partner at K&L Gates LLP. His
practice focuses on corporate and securities transactions in
variety of industry sectors, primarily in energy and mining,
health care and information technology. He represents
underwriters, placement agents and issuers in both public and
private offerings, advises on mergers and acquisitions and
represents private equity funds,  hedge funds  and venture capital
funds in connection with both their formation and their
investments.  Steve Smith , the office managing partner in Dallas,
said in the statement that “their addition bolsters our current
capabilities and will allow us to better serve our local clients
in Dallas and throughout the country.”  Employment Law Firm Ogletree Gains Shareholder in California  Frank Tobin is joining Ogletree, Deakins, Nash, Smoak &
Stewart PC, a labor and employment firm representing management,
as a shareholder in its San Diego office. The firm opened its
San Diego office in January.  Tobin is a litigator who has handled about 20 trials,
including serving as the lead counsel in both jury and bench
trials and arbitrations. His labor and employment litigation
practice focuses on the Employee Retirement Income Security Act
breach of fiduciary duty, contract disputes, unfair competition,
wrongful termination, and trade secret matters. He also has
experience with health-care litigation and counseling and
defending class action lawsuits.  He previously was a partner at Procopio, Cory, Hargreaves &
Savitch LLP.  “Frank is a masterful litigator with significant trial
experience in both state and federal courts, including multiple
Erisa fiduciary duty lawsuits,” said Spencer Skeen, managing
shareholder of Ogletree’s San Diego office, said in a statement.  Tobin served in the U.S. Army from 1988 to 1997.  Ogletree has more than 650 lawyers located in 43 offices in
the U.S and Europe.  Law Firm News  Former Client Accuses DLA Piper of Churning Fees in Lawsuit  A lawsuit between  DLA Piper  LLP and a former client is
offering a rare look at  law firm  billing, the  New York  Times
reported. E-mails from lawyers at the firm expose, according to
a brief filed by the former client, Adam Victor, attorneys who
“churn time, inflate bills, create unneeded work or expend time
performing useless work.”  The law firm last year sued Victor in New York state court
seeking fees for work done in the restructuring of Victor’s
energy business, Project Orange Associates. DLA Piper had to
withdraw because of a client contact, but claims it remained
counsel to Victor personally and incurred more than $600,000 in
fees, according to court documents.  Victor’s lawyers at Davidoff Hutcher & Citron LLP filed the
e-mails last week from DLA Piper lawyers suggesting the
magnitude of the bills. One e-mail read, “I hear we are already
200k over our estimate -- that’s Team DLA Piper!” Another e-
mail said one lawyer “has random people working full time on
random research projects” in “‘churn that bill, baby!’ mode.”  “As a firm, we hold ourselves to the highest legal and
ethical standards,” Joshua Epstein, a spokesman for DLA Piper,
said in an e-mail. “The behavior as described is unacceptable
to DLA Piper and our clients.  ‘‘The e-mails were in fact an offensive and inexcusable
effort at humor, but in no way reflect actual excessive
billing,’’ Epstein said. ‘‘Instead, the reality of the matter is
that the amount of fees billed by DLA Piper was consistent with
an understanding expressly reached with the client.’’  The case is DLA Piper v. Victor, 650374/2012  Supreme Court 
of the State of New York ( Manhattan ).  SNR Denton Promotes 16 Lawyers to Partner Worldwide  SNR Denton LLP promoted 16 attorneys -- four in the Middle
East and Europe and 12 in the U.S. -- to partner.  Those promoted overseas are Catherine Beckett, corporate,
Dubai; Sadaf Buchanan, banking & finance, Muscat; Helen Simpson,
dispute resolution,  Milton Keynes , England; and Zoe Thirlwell,
restructuring & insolvency, London.  In the U.S. those named partner are Todd Anderson, tax, New
York; Darin Deaver, intellectual property & technology, Dallas;
Daniel Feinberg, litigation, Chicago; Karen Jordan, corporate,
 St. Louis ; Ramji Kaul, litigation, Chicago; Imran Khaliq,
intellectual property & technology, Silicon Valley,  California ;
Keith Londo, real estate, Chicago; Matt Lyons,  capital markets ,
New York; Katharine Mellon, litigation, Chicago; Matthew Nickel,
litigation, Dallas; Paul Turvey, real estate, Kansas City,
Missouri; and Stephanie Zeppa, corporate, Silicon Valley/ San
Francisco .  SNR Denton’s combination with international firm Salans and
Canadian firm Fraser Milner Casgrain will become effective on
March 28. The combined firm will be called Dentons, with more
than 2,500 lawyers and professionals in 79 locations in 52
countries.  News  New York Seeks Approval to Finish $410 Million Merkin Settlement  New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman asked a federal
judge for permission to complete a $410 million settlement with
J. Ezra Merkin, using his law enforcement powers to compensate
the former Bernard Madoff investor’s victims.  Madoff brokerage liquidator  Irving Picard , who seeks to
collect $500 million from Merkin for different investors, is
trying to block the deal. Schneiderman has argued that Picard
has no claim to the settlement money and lacks power as a
bankruptcy trustee to stop the state from enforcing the people’s
legal rights.  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff began a hearing in Manhattan
federal court yesterday by asking the parties to address the
state’s argument that Picard had waited too long to try to block
its suit. David Ellenhorn, a lawyer from Schneiderman’s office,
told Rakoff that investors refrained from bringing their own
claims against Merkin in reliance on the attorney general’s
suit.  Investors in Merkin’s hedge funds lost more than $1.2
billion in the Madoff fraud, New York has said. Madoff, arrested
in 2008, is serving 150 years in prison for the largest  Ponzi
scheme  in U.S. history, which effaced an estimated $17 billion
of investors’ principal.  The combatants portray their deadlocked fight as a clash
between state law, governing a top law enforcer, and bankruptcy
law, regulating trustees in fraud cases. Rakoff took over the
case from a bankruptcy judge to decide if Schneiderman can
complete the deal with Merkin.  Amanda Remus, a spokeswoman for Picard, said earlier this
month the parties hadn’t had talks to resolve the dispute ‘‘of
late and none are anticipated.” James Freedland, a spokesman
for Schneiderman, has declined to comment on the possibility of
a truce.  With Picard’s consent, the settlement agreement struck with
Merkin was filed under seal in court after Merkin requested
confidentiality for some material he provided.  The case is Picard v. Schneiderman, 12-cv-06733, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Ex-Calpers CEO Buenrostro Will Plead Not Guilty, Lawyer Says  Federico Buenrostro, former chief executive officer of
 California Public Employees’ Retirement System , will plead not
guilty to charges he conspired to trick the pension fund into
paying millions of dollars to a placement agent, his lawyer
said.  Buenrostro, 64, faces conspiracy and other charges for
allegedly helping to create false documents so  Alfred Villalobos 
could garner $14 million in fees for arranging a $3 billion
Calpers investment into funds managed by  Apollo Global
Management LLC. (APO)  Villalobos was also charged.  William Portanova, Buenrostro’s attorney, said in an
interview yesterday his client will plead not guilty and defend
himself against the charges in federal court in San Francisco.
Buenrostro appeared yesterday at a hearing about the terms of
his bail. He is free on a $500,000 unsecured bond. U.S.
Magistrate Judge Nathanael Cousins upheld the amount and
released Buenrostro from electronic monitoring.  His next scheduled court appearance is May 8.  The case is U.S. v. Villalobos, 13-cr-00169, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of California (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  