-- Solus Funds Get $1.1 Billion for Bankruptcy Investments
-- B y   K e l l y   B i t
-- 2013-03-26T19:02:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/solus-funds-get-1-1-billion-for-bankruptcy-investments.html
Solus Alternative Asset Management
LP raised $1.1 billion for two funds that invest in bankruptcy
claims and are overseen by a team including  Scott Martin  and
C.J. Lanktree, former co-heads of distressed products at
 Deutsche Bank AG. (DBK)   Solus Recovery Fund I and II gathered the money within the
last 12 months, the firm said in a letter to clients dated March
5, a copy of which was obtained by  Bloomberg News . Martin and
Lanktree run the funds, which are closed to new investments,
with Christopher Pucillo, the firm’s president and chief
investment officer, to whom they report.  Recovery I rose 16 percent in the 12 months since it opened
last March and Recovery II gained 2.6 percent in the three
months since its inception in December, according to the letter.
The Solus Recovery funds have traded bankruptcy claims in cases
including  MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ) , Bernard L. Madoff Investment
Securities Inc. and Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., according to
a person with knowledge of the matter, who asked not to be
identified because the information isn’t public.  “We remain enthusiastic about investment opportunities in
late-stage bankruptcy claims that we believe can deliver
compelling risk-adjusted returns,” New York-based Solus said in
the letter, which was signed by Wight Martindale, partner and
director of business development.  Bankruptcy claims can be bought from original creditors and
traded in private transactions whose terms are rarely disclosed.  Mary Beth Grover, a spokeswoman for Solus at Abernathy
MacGregor Group, declined to comment on the letter.  Asset Growth  Hedge-fund assets grew 2.8 percent to a record $2.25
trillion in the fourth quarter, according to Chicago-based Hedge
Fund Research Inc. Investors deposited $3.4 billion in the
period and $34.4 billion in 2012, the firm said in January.  Solus, which was founded in 2007 when the hedge-fund
strategies group of Stanfield Capital Partners LLC spun out,
specializes in event- and credit-related strategies. Event-
driven funds seek to profit from events such as mergers. Credit
managers may bet that the prices of bonds will rise or fall, or
try to take advantage of pricing inefficiencies between fixed-
income securities.  Flagship Fund  The firm’s flagship fund, Sola, which has a “significant
allocation to the liquidation strategy” and invests in other
distressed and special situations opportunities, rose 12 percent
in 2012 and 6.3 percent this year through February, Solus said
in the letter. The fund, also now co-managed by Pucillo, Martin
and Lanktree, has returned an annualized 22 percent since its
2002 opening, according to the firm. Distressed and special-
situations managers invest in the equity or debt of financially
stressed companies.  Martin and Lanktree joined Solus in March 2012 as portfolio
managers. Martin came to Deutsche Bank as a distressed-
investment analyst in 1995 and later became a trader. Lanktree
began his career at Salomon Smith Barney Holdings Inc. in 2001
as an investment-banking analyst in telecommunications and
media. He was hired by Deutsche Bank in 2003 as a distressed-
investment analyst before becoming a trader. The two were named
co-heads of the firm’s distressed-products group in 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelly Bit in  New York  at   kbit@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  