-- South Africa Must Cut Power Use By 15 Percent: Minister
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2013-03-26T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/south-africa-must-cut-power-use-by-15-percent-minister.html
South Africa must cut power
consumption by 10 percent to 15 percent to avoid a repeat of
rolling blackouts that crippled the  mining industry  in 2008,
Energy Minister Dipuo Peters said.  “ South Africans  are starting to realize that we need to
use energy efficiently,” Peters said in an interview in Durban
yesterday. State-owned utility Eskom Holdings SOC Ltd. may be
able to avoid blackouts with reduced consumption, she said.  Eskom, which supplies about 95 percent of the nation’s
power, is straining to meet demand from a growing economy as
consumption is set to swell when the Southern Hemisphere winter
drives demand for heat. Repairs at the Koeberg nuclear power
plant near  Cape Town  are crimping supply, while imports are cut
because of flooding in Mozambique.  Eskom estimated surplus capacity was 1.5 percent over peak
demand for March 18. That’s as thin as the margin was when power
cuts struck five years ago, pushing gold and platinum prices to
records as  Anglo (AAL)  American Plc,  Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd. (IMP)  and
 Harmony Gold Mining Co. (HAR)  halted operations in South Africa.  A repeat of the January 2008 blackouts that halted Anglo’s
mines for five days and paralyzed factories would imperil South
Africa’s 2013 growth forecast of 2.7 percent, Peters said.  The nation is trying to expand available power after a
decade in which surging demand outstripped added supply. Total
electricity consumption increased 20 percent from 2000 to 2010,
while generation capacity grew by 7 percent, according to the
U.S. Energy Information Administration.  Contractor Penalties  Eskom, based in Johannesburg, has established an  initiative 
to encourage South Africa’s 49 million citizens to cut power
consumption by 10 percent. The company is also building a 4,800
megawatt coal-fired power plant, known as Medupi.  Peters said she supports penalties for Eskom contractors
who failed to deliver on time, delaying Medupi’s completion.  “Eskom has the right to take the most appropriate
arrangement,” Peters said. “If you don’t deliver there must be
penalties. I would support that.”  Alstom SA (ALO) , Europe’s second-biggest power-equipment maker,
on March 18 said it had asked for more time to complete work on
the project, adding to concerns that Medupi’s first unit won’t
start by year-end.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  