-- Spain Beats France 1-0 in World Cup Qualifier as England Draws
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-03-26T23:08:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/spain-beats-france-1-0-in-world-cup-qualifier-as-england-draws.html
Spain beat France 1-0 to move to
the top of its group in qualifying for soccer’s 2014 World Cup,
while  Montenegro  rallied for a 1-1 draw with  England .  Pedro Rodriguez scored for Spain last night in Paris. The
victory gives the world and European champion 11 points in Group
I, one more than France.  Dejan Damjanovic’s goal with 14 minutes left canceled out a
first-half score from Wayne Rooney to earn Montenegro the home
draw. The victory keeps Montenegro two points ahead of England
in Group H with four qualifying matches left.  “We stopped playing and away from home you can’t afford to
do that,” England captain Steven Gerrard told ITV. “At 1-0,
you’re always vulnerable. You have to get that second goal and
we didn’t do that.”  The Netherlands remained perfect in qualifying, while
 Germany  and  Italy  won to increase their group leads. The winners
of each of the nine European groups qualify for the World Cup in
 Brazil , with the best eight runners-up going into a playoff for
the remaining four slots.  Spain rebounded from a surprising 1-1 home draw with
Finland five days ago to extend its unbeaten run in World Cup
qualifiers to 50 matches.  Spain’s Xavi Hernandez put a shot from six yards over the
crossbar early in game, while Franck Ribery had France’s best
chance of the half stopped by Victor Valdes.  The Spanish broke through in the 58th minute as Nacho
Monreal sent a pass into the area which Pedro Rodriguez directed
toward goal. Hugo Lloris was able to get a hand to the ball but
couldn’t keep it from crossing the line.  Sent Off  France  would finish with 10 men after Paul Pogba picked up
his second yellow card with 12 minutes left.  England came close to scoring after three minutes as Rooney
saw Montenegro goalkeeper Mladen Bozovic off his line and
chipped over him from the edge of the area. While the shot hit
the far post and bounced away, the Manchester United striker
didn’t miss three minutes later as he headed in Gerrard’s corner
kick.  Montenegro took control in the second half as Stevan
Jovetic headed into the side of the net and also shot wide.
Joleon Lescott’s headed clearance then fell to Mirko Vucinic,
who shot over from 10 yards out.  England goalkeeper Joe Hart had to scramble to gather an
effort from Vicinic, who also curled a shot wide with about 18
minutes remaining. Hart was forced to dive to stop a shot from
Jovetic.  Montenegro got the tying goal in the 76th minute as
Damjanovic’s header off a corner was stopped by Hart. Two
follow-up attempts were blocked by  Danny Welbeck  before
Damjanovic put a rebound past Hart.  Confident  Bozovic caught a volley from Gerrard in the final minute,
then knocked away a free kick from the England captain in
stoppage time to preserve Montenegro’s group lead.  “We’re still confident we can finish top of the group,”
Gerrard said. “We need to win all our games. We certainly need
to improve on that second-half performance.”  Montenegro has 14 points and England has 12.  Poland , which
beat San Marino 5-0, and Ukraine, a 2-1 winner over Moldova, are
tied for third with eight points.  Robin van Persie scored twice as the Netherlands beat
Romania 4-0 for its sixth straight win in Group D. The Dutch are
seven points ahead of  Hungary , which drew 1-1 with  Turkey .
Estonia beat winless Andorra 2-0 in the group’s other match.  Three goals in eight first-half minutes sent Germany to a
4-1 win over Kazakhstan. The Germans lead Austria and Ireland,
which drew 2-2, and Sweden, which didn’t play, by eight points
in Group C.  Balotelli Goals  Mario Balotelli  scored twice as Italy beat Malta 2-0 to
move three points clear of Bulgaria, which drew 1-1 in  Denmark ,
in Group B. The Czech Republic moved into third, five points
back, with a 3-0 win over Armenia.  Croatia scored twice in the final 13 minutes to beat Wales
2-1 and stay tied with  Belgium , which beat Macedonia 1-0, for
the Group A lead with 16 points. Serbia beat Scotland 2-0.  Israel and  Portugal  both won to move within a point of
Russia, which has played two fewer games, in Group F.  Bruno Alves and Hugo Almeda scored after Rauf Aliyev was
sent off for a second yellow card in the second half as Portugal
beat Azerbaijan 2-0, while  Israel  scored twice after the 77th
minute to win at Northern Ireland by the same score.  The next round of qualifying matches in  Europe  will be
played June 7.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  