-- Split Bank Board to Debate Koruna Sales Amid Zero Rates
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2013-03-26T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/split-bank-board-to-debate-koruna-sales-amid-zero-rates.html
A split Czech central bank board
will debate whether to start selling the koruna as  interest
rates  close to  zero  fail to end the longest recession since at
least 1996.  The Ceska Narodni Banka is navigating in uncharted waters
as it ponders its first currency intervention in a decade. A
weaker koruna would help exports, which make up 80 percent of a
$217 billion  economy  that’s shrunk for four quarters amid
government austerity measures and the euro-area debt crisis. The
bank will probably hold the main rate tomorrow at 0.05 percent,
according to all 21 analysts in a  Bloomberg survey .  Monetary authorities from U.K. to  Japan  are easing policy,
fueling depreciation of their currencies. Governor Miroslav Singer has said the board tomorrow will debate whether to start
koruna sales, while Mojmir Hampl, his deputy, sees no need for
it now. The koruna has lost 4.9 percent to the euro since Sept.
17, a day before Singer first said the central bank may sell the
currency.  “We don’t think the central bank is looking for
devaluation, but rather, weakness at a moderated pace, which is
what it has achieved over the past three months,” Mohammed Kazmi, a London-based analyst at Royal Bank of Scotland Plc,
said in a March 20 interview. “The CNB has historically been
ultra-conservative, which implies that the likely supply-side
inflation that would follow an actual, and successful,
intervention would be undesirable enough to restrain the CNB.”  Koruna Weakening  The koruna was the fourth-worst performance among 25
emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg in the period.
The decline was outdone by the 14.9 percent fall in Japanese yen
against the euro and matched by the British pound’s loss in that
period.  The koruna has traded at 25.532 to the euro on average so
far this year, in line with the central bank’s forecast for the
first quarter. It stood at 25.742 per euro as of 5:48 p.m. in
Prague yesterday.  In the past month, several board members have voiced
differing views on what policy setting is appropriate to meet
the  inflation  goal. The forecast of the central bank, whose
mandate is  price stability , signals that currency sales may be
needed in the second half of the year, Singer said in an Euro
magazine interview published on March. 4.  Divided Board  His comments echoed Feb. 26 remarks by board member Lubomir
Lizal, while Kamil Janacek was cited as telling Reuters March 19
that no intervention is needed as monetary conditions are
relaxed enough to allow for a gradual economic recovery.  For Hampl, the Czech economy isn’t in danger of falling
into a deflationary spiral now that would warrant koruna sales.  “For me personally, a trigger for interventions would be
the moment when I see a highly probable risk of a long-lasting,
devastating deflationary spiral,” Hampl in a March 18
interview. “I personally don’t see such a strong risk yet. It
can’t be ruled out that this risk will appear in the future, but
I don’t see it materializing for now.”  The seven-member board, which was split on monetary easing
at five meetings last year, would have to approve the use of
direct interventions as a policy tool, Singer said. The bank
last sold the koruna to stem its appreciation in 2002.  The Czech  inflation  rate dropped to 1.7 percent in February
from 1.9 percent in January, which was below the central bank’s
2 percent target and an identical estimate for the month.
Fourth-quarter  gross domestic product  shrank 0.2 percent from
the previous three months, the fourth consecutive quarterly
contraction.  The central bank in February cut its economic forecast for
2013 as the government’s austerity measures continue to damp
demand. It projects 2013 GDP contracting 0.3 percent this year
before growing 2.1 percent in 2014. The inflation rate is seen
at 1.7 percent in the first and second quarters of next year.  Regional Peers  Central banks in the region are cutting borrowing costs to
foster economic growth. Hungary lowered its main interest rate
yesterday to a record low of 5 percent. Poland has also cut its
benchmark to a record, reducing it by a half-point to 3.25
percent on March 6.  Hampl and Janacek’s comments were “hawkish” because they
clashed with the central bank’s forecast, which assumes a
“further, moderate decline in interest rates,” said  Jaromir
Sindel , an economist at Citigroup Inc. in Prague, by e-mail.  The koruna will ease further to 25.8 per euro in the second
quarter, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey
of 23 analysts. That would be weaker than the central bank’s
forecast of 25.3 per euro for the quarter.  “Recent comments by board members, Singer versus Hampl and
Janacek, show a divided bank board,” Lubos Mokras, an analyst
at Erste Group Bank AG’s unit Ceska Sporitelna AS, said in a
March 25 e-mail. The board will “probably only repeat that the
CNB is willing to help meet its inflation goal with foreign-
exchange interventions if needed, and a vague commitment to keep
low rates for a longer time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in  Prague  at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  