-- Spokane Airport Sues FAA to Stop Closing of Control Tower
-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c   a n d   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2013-03-27T01:56:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/spokane-airport-board-sues-faa-to-stop-control-tower-closing-2-.html
     March 27 (Bloomberg) --The Spokane,  Washington , airport
board sued the U.S.  Federal Aviation Administration  to block its
shutdown of air-traffic control operations at the city’s  Felts
Field  as a result of agency budget cuts.  The airport’s board said the FAA notified it that the
agency “will terminate contract air traffic control operations
at Felts Field as early as April 7,” according to its petition
for review filed March 25 in the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in
Washington.  A reliever facility for Spokane International Airport,
Felts Field is among 149 small and midsize airports slated to
lose air-traffic control services by contractors as part of the
FAA’s plan to trim $637 million in spending under so-called
sequestration.  The airport board, in a March 22 letter, asked FAA
Administrator Michael Huerta to delay the action while the court
reviews the petition.  If Huerta declines, “we will ask the court for a temporary
restraining order,” Larry Krauter, chief executive officer of
the airport board, said in a phone interview.  The letter argues that the FAA has a safety management
system “whose very purpose is to assess the risks associated
with significant changes to air traffic procedures” before
“any such change is implemented, and which the FAA has entirely
failed to apply in this action.”  The safety review is among legal obligations which “are
not excused by the sequestration legislation,” according to the
letter.  Laura Brown , an FAA spokeswoman, declined to comment
because the litigation is pending.  Airport Activity  Felts Field has about 52,000 takeoffs and landings
annually, just under the average of 54,000 flights for the
airports slated to lose contract tower services.  The government staffs control towers at larger airports.  Planes can continue to fly into airports without working
control towers. Instead of being guided by controllers, pilots
radio one another to manage takeoffs and landings, under FAA
procedures.  The shutdowns will be phased in over four weeks. About 750
to 1,100 controllers and supervisors may lose their jobs,
according to Spencer Dickerson, executive director of the
Alexandria, Virginia-based  Contract Tower Association .  The case is Spokane Airport Board v. Huerta, 13-1080, U.S.
Court of Appeals for the  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  