-- St. Jude, Watson, Hasbro, AT&T: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-03-26T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/st-jude-watson-hasbro-at-t-intellectual-property.html
The University of  Pennsylvania  sued
 St. Jude Children’s Research Hospital  over a patent for creating
genetically modified versions of immune cells to treat cancer.  The university asked for a court order declaring it hasn’t
infringed the patent held by researchers at St. Jude, which it
claims is invalid, according to a March 22 complaint in federal
court in Philadelphia.  “The University and St. Jude have adverse legal interests
with respect to the 645 patent, and a substantial controversy
exists,” lawyers for the university wrote, referring St. Jude’s
patent 8,399,645.  The lawsuit is the latest chapter in a dispute over the use
of the therapy which reprograms T-cells to specifically target
leukemia cells. The approach was used by Penn Professor Carl
June to treat patients suffering from the blood cancer in an
experiment reported in 2011 in the New England Journal of
Medicine.  Novartis AG in August acquired the university’s technology
as part of a $20 million agreement to fund a research center at
the school. Novartis was one of three companies to negotiate
with the university, June said at the time.  St. Jude, based in  Memphis ,  Tennessee , sued in July
accusing the university of claiming the technology as its own in
scientific publications and seeking to commercialize it without
consent.  Penn then sued St. Jude in July, accusing the hospital of
interfering with its prospective contractual relations. In the
new action, it is asking a judge to rule on the validity of the
therapy’s underlying patent, which was issued to the hospital
last week.  The invention is for an artificial molecule that attaches
to normal T-cells and reprograms them to attack cancer cells
before they are re-injected into the body. It targets cancers
such as acute and chronic leukemia and non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma,
according to the complaint.  Judith Black, a spokeswoman for St. Jude, didn’t
immediately return a phone call and e-mail seeking comment on
the complaint.  The case is Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania v.
St. Jude Children’s Research Hospital, 2:13-cv-01502, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Pennsylvania (Philadelphia).  Drugmaker ‘Pay for Delay’ Accords Questioned by High Court  U.S. Supreme Court justices suggested they will open
drugmakers to suits over so-called pay-for-delay agreements,
hinting at a ruling that would rewrite the rules governing the
release of generic medicines.  Hearing arguments yesterday in  Washington , the justices
voiced skepticism about the accords, which the Federal Trade
Commission says cost buyers as much as $3.5 billion a year. The
antitrust agency says brand-name drug companies are paying
generic rivals to forestall low-priced versions of popular
treatments.  The FTC says 40 more pay-for-delay accords were struck in
fiscal 2012 alone.  Bayer AG (BAYN) ,  Merck & Co. (MRK)  and  Bristol-Myers
Squibb Co. (BMY)  units already have faced lawsuits. Companies say the
accords are legitimate patent settlements.  Several justices suggested they weren’t comfortable with
the FTC’s proposed test to determine whether the accords are
anticompetitive. The antitrust agency says courts should start
with the presumption that a payment from a brand-name drug maker
to a generic rival is illegal.  Justice Anthony Kennedy, often the court’s swing vote,
suggested that brand-name drug makers at least shouldn’t be
allowed to pay generic companies more than the generic companies
could expect to get by winning patent litigation.  The disputed settlements are a product of the economics of
the pharmaceutical industry, where companies can reap billions
of dollars from blockbuster drugs -- and then see those sales
plummet the moment a generic alternative appears. The FTC says
generic drugs sell for an average of 15 percent of the original
price, with the brand-name company losing 90 percent of its
market share by unit sales. Generics have saved purchasers $1.1
trillion in the last decade, the industry says.  Pharmaceutical patent settlements typically arise when a
generic-drug maker has either secured, or is poised to receive,
Food and Drug Administration approval. At that stage, only the
brand-name company’s patents stand in the way of generic
competition.  The FTC and its allies say they have no quarrel with
settlements that merely set the date for generic entry. They say
that type of agreement simply reflects the companies’
assessments of the chances that a court would invalidate the
brand-name company’s patent.  A payment is different, they say. If a brand-name drug
maker with $100 million in annual sales can pay a generic rival
$20 million to wait an extra year, both companies come out ahead
-- at the expense of purchasers, the FTC argues.  The case, which the court will resolve by June, is Federal
Trade Commission v. Watson Pharmaceuticals, 12-416.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Double Coins Wins Trademark Dispute Against Indian Distributor  Double Coins Holdings Ltd., a Shanghai-based tire
manufacturer, has prevailed in a trademark dispute with its
Indian distributor, the Hindu newspaper  reported .  The mark was invented and began to be used by the Chinese
company in 1930, according to the Hindu.  The distributor, Trans Tyre ( India ) Private Ltd.,
registered the mark in India in October 2007 and claimed it was
authorized to do so, the newspaper reported.  India’s Intellectual Property Appeal Board, which heard the
dispute, said the registration had to be removed because Trans
Tyre was merely a distributor rather than the owner of the mark,
according to the newspaper.  Hasbro Unit’s Trademark Protest Ends ‘Kaiju’ Campaign  A page on  Kickstarter Inc. ’s website through which crowd-
source funding was sought by a Eugene, Oregon-based games
company has been taken down because of possible trademark
problems.  The page , which sought consumer funding for  Sunstone Games
LLC ’ s Kaiju Combat game, now says that the project is the
subject of an intellectual property dispute and is now
unavailable.  The objection came from  Hasbro Inc. (HAS) ’s Wizards of the Coast
unit, which is best known for its Dungeons and Dragons and
Magic: The Gathering games.  Renton, Washington-based Wizards that “Kaiju” infringed
its “ Kaijudo ” mark used for game cards and cartoons. According
to the database of the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, Wizards
registered that mark in December 2012, and has a pending
application to register the mark for a television series for
children.  Simon Strange, owner of Sunstone, said in a  blog posting 
that “Kaiju” is “an ordinary word, used in its ordinary
context. He said that the IP protections accorded Wizards’
“Kaijudo” mark “cannot extend to the word ‘Kaiju.’”  Voss of Norway, High Liquors Seek Time Extension for Response  High Liquors LLC , a Kentucky-based distiller, sought an
extension of time to respond to a trademark complaint filed by a
Norwegian bottled-water company.  Voss of Norway ASA filed suit against High Liquors in
federal court in Ashland,  Kentucky , in January. Voss objects to
the shape of the bottles in which High Liquors is packaging and
selling vodka, rum, whiskey and tequila.  According to the complaint, the High Liquors bottles have a
too-strong resemblance to the cylindrical flat-topped bottles in
which Voss is importing and selling its water.  Voss said in its pleadings that because its distinctive
bottle shape has been knocked off by third parties before, the
company has a “robust policing and enforcement program to
protect its brand.”  It claims to be harmed by High Liquors’ actions, and says
the public is likely to be confused by the similarity of the
liquor company’s packaging to the designs used for Voss’s water
bottles.  In addition to seeking an order banning the production and
sale of High Liquors products in what it says is infringing
packaging, Voss has also asked the court for an order for
destruction of all allegedly infringing products and promotional
materials, and for awards of money damages, attorney fees and
litigation costs. The Norwegian company also asked to be awarded
High Liquor’s profits attributable to the claimed infringement.  High Liquors, which filed a joint request with Voss that it
be allowed to extend the Kentucky company’s time to answer the
complaint until April 15, didn’t respond immediately to an
e-mailed request for comment.  The case is Voss of Norway ASA v. High Liquors LLC, 0:13-
cv-00004-HRW, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Kentucky
(Ashland).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  AT&T, Verizon Didn’t Infringe Copyright, Appeals Court Affirms  AT&T Mobility LLC, Verizon Wireless Telecom Inc., and
several other providers of mobile telephone service did not
infringe the copyrights belonging to a producer of mobile
multimedia content, a federal appeals court said, affirming a
lower-court ruling.  Los Angeles-based Luvdarts LLC had filed the copyright
infringement suit in federal court in Los Angeles in July 2010.
The appeals court said that Luvdarts failed to state an adequate
claim under copyright law that the providers of mobile service
had liability for the circulation of its content by users of the
services.  The court said that while Luvdarts attached a notice to its
content that it could only be shared once, the company didn’t
put in place any technical impediments to a recipient’s
forwarding the content to “as many people as he wishes.”  The company also failed to allege that the mobile-service
carries had a capacity to supervise the forwarding of its
content, the court said. “Nowhere does Luvdarts explain what
that system is, how it would function, or how much implementing
such a system would cost,” according to the court opinion.  The appeal is Luvdarts LLC v. AT&T Mobility LLC, 11-55497,
U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. The lower court
case is Luvdarts LLC v. Davis-Reuss, 2:10-cv-05442-DDP-RZ, U.S.
District Court, Central District of  California  (Los Angeles).  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Court Considering Scary Spice’s Trade-Secret Payment Argument  Melanie Brown , the singer also known as “Scary Spice” and
“Mel B.”, is trying to keep protected as a trade secret the
amount an Australian television network is paying her not to
appear on a rival network’s programming, the Australian
newspaper  reported .  Lawyers for Brown and  Australia ’s Seven network, where she
was a judge on  that country’s version of “X Factor,”  told an
Australian court that the singer would be disadvantaged should
the payment figures be revealed and that payments made to on-air
talent are a matter of “sensitivity,” according to the
newspaper.  Brown was set to be a judge on  Australia’s Got Talent  on
the Channel Nine network, The Australian reported.  The judge hearing the court has said that while the amount
specified in the contract is confidential, he’s not sure whether
keeping it secret serves the public interest, according to the
newspaper.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 