-- Steinway to Sell NYC Flagship Building to Condo Developer
-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 2013-03-26T18:32:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/steinway-to-sell-nyc-flagship-building-to-condo-developer.html
Steinway Musical Instruments Inc. (LVB) ,
the maker of its namesake pianos, is selling its building near
 Manhattan ’s  Carnegie Hall  to investors led by JDS Development
Group, builder of Chelsea’s Walker Tower condominium.  The company agreed to sell its stake in Steinway Hall for
$46 million, plus an undisclosed amount to be held in escrow, it
said in a statement today. The property, at 109 W. 57th St., has
been home to the company’s flagship retail store since the
1950s, said Julie Theriault, a spokeswoman for the Waltham,
Massachusetts-based piano maker.  Steinway bought the 16-story Beaux Arts building in 1999,
and hasn’t invested any “significant” capital there, she said.  “Investors understand we’re about pianos, not about
managing commercial real estate,” Theriault said in an
interview. “For us to own an office building doesn’t make a lot
of sense for the long-term future of Steinway.”  The buyer is a consortium that includes JDS, Atlantic
Development Group and Property Markets Group, the co-developer
of Walker Tower, said Michael Stern, the principal of  New York- 
based JDS. He declined to comment on details of the purchase.
Walker Tower, former Verizon Communications Inc. offices, is a
24-story building where the top-floor penthouse is listed for
$55 million.  Condo Boom  Steinway Hall sits at the center of a condo construction
boom in midtown Manhattan. It’s on the same block as Extell
Development Co.’s One57, a 90-story tower that has set sales
records with two deals valued at more than $90 million each.  Three blocks away at 432 Park Ave., developer  Harry
Macklowe  and CIM Group are building Manhattan’s tallest
residential skyscraper on the site of the former Drake Hotel.
More than a third of the units at the planned 1,397-foot (426-
meter) tower, slated for completion in 2015, have sold.  The JDS group is also acquiring the land beneath the
Steinway building from a separate, unnamed owner, the company
said. The transactions are expected to be completed in May,
after which Steinway will stop making monthly lease payments on
the land.  Under the deal, Steinway may occupy the building rent-free
for 14 months after closing, and for an additional four months
for an agreed-upon fee, the company said. In that time, Steinway
will search for new showroom space in Manhattan, Theriault said.  “It gives us the opportunity to design a showroom,” she
said. “We can really create the Steinway Hall of the 21st
century.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in  New York  at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  