-- Stevens Says G-20 Should Focus on Reform Implementation in 2014
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-03-26T04:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/stevens-says-g-20-should-focus-on-reform-implementation-in-2014.html
Reserve Bank  of  Australia  Governor
 Glenn Stevens  said the Group of 20 should focus on implementing
rule changes in the financial system rather than adding new
reforms when Australia takes over the presidency next year.  “To task the regulatory community and the financial
industry with further wholesale changes from here would risk
overload,” Stevens said in the  text  of a speech today in
Sydney. “By 2014 we will have reached a point in the financial
regulatory sphere where the G20 should be looking for careful
and sustained efforts at implementation of the regulatory
reforms that have already been broadly agreed.”  Stevens, who didn’t address monetary policy or the nation’s
economy in the speech, said the G-20 will need to remain open to
the possibility there will be changes to the rules. “As
experience is gained with implementation and we grapple with the
inevitable difficulties, and as we learn more about how the
financial system is likely to operate in a new world, we will
want to make occasional adjustments,” he said.  Global regulators have introduced policies to shore up the
banking system after the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. in 2008 that triggered a crisis in the U.S. and  Europe . In
Australia, which escaped the worst of the credit crunch, local
regulators have accelerated requirements to increase bank
capital reserves ahead of a global timetable.  “Our banking system overall, though hardly without
blemish, stood up fairly well,” Stevens told the Australian
Securities and Investments Commission forum today. “This was
testament to generally sound management in most institutions and
a robust supervisory approach. But there were still lessons to
be drawn for Australia and the regulators here have given
careful thought to them and to the associated global reforms.”  The RBA lowered  borrowing costs  by 175 basis points in the
14 months through December, matching a half-century low of 3
percent, to offset some of the drag on the economy from a high
currency and to boost industries including construction as
mining investment is predicted to crest this year. It kept
 interest rates  unchanged at the first two policy meetings this
year amid signs that past reductions are beginning to boost the
economy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  