-- Stockton Deficits May Total $100 Million, Forecast Shows
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2013-03-26T18:56:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/stockton-deficits-may-total-100-million-forecast-shows.html
Stockton,  California ’s annual
budget deficits may total almost $100 million after 10 years
even if it got all of the cuts it sought before filing for
bankruptcy, a city forecast showed.  The forecast assumes the city would take no additional
actions, which is unrealistic, David Millican, a  management
consultant  for the city, testified today in  Sacramento . U.S.
Bankruptcy Judge Christopher M. Klein is presiding over a
hearing to decide whether Stockton is eligible to remain in
bankruptcy, where it is shielded from paying many of its debts.  Guy Neal, an attorney for creditors opposed to the
bankruptcy, cross-examined Millican about the forecast in an
effort to bolster the argument that Stockton should be denied
court protection. Annual deficits under the forecast would start
at $700,000 and climb to $17.6 million in 2021, Neal said. The
deficits would add up to $99.8 million after 10 years.  “The 10-year projections in and of themselves do not show
the city achieving financial stability within 10 years?” Neal
asked.  “That’s correct,” Millican said. “Not without further
action.”  Creditors such as Assured Guaranty Corp., a bond insurer,
and  Franklin Resources Inc. (BEN) , a mutual-fund manager, are trying
to prove at the three-day trial that began yesterday that the
city isn’t truly insolvent and didn’t engage in good faith
negotiations.  Raising Taxes  Yesterday, Neal, who represents Assured, said that the city
refused to take steps, such as raising taxes or demanding that
highly paid city employees return past wages, that could help
balance its budget. Assured argued in court papers that the city
manipulated its budget to appear to be insolvent.  Stockton is among three municipalities that have said they
will try to force creditors, including bondholders, to take less
than the principal they are owed. Bondholders have complained
for months about the city’s plan to cut their debt while
maintaining tens of millions of dollars in future pension
payment to the  California Public Employees’ Retirement System ,
or Calpers.  If Stockton’s creditors win at trial, they will be free to
sue the city of 300,000 in state court, where it’s easier to
force asset sales, cuts in city services or a boost in revenue
to pay debt. While in bankruptcy, Stockton, located 80 miles
(129 kilometers) east of  San Francisco , is shielded from such
tactics and has more power to choose which bills to pay.  Debt Plan  A trial victory by Stockton would allow the city to pursue
its original debt-reduction plan. Before filing for bankruptcy
in June under Chapter 9 of the U.S.  Bankruptcy Code , the city
asked bondholders and other lenders owed more than $300 million
to take less than full repayment.  In his testimony, Millican said 10-year forecasts often
show long-range deficits and are useful for clarifying the
options faced by a city council.  “You’d never reach that because you’d have to take action
to make sure that the debt didn’t accumulate,” said Millican, a
former city official who is now a consultant with Management
Partners.  The case is In re Stockton, 12-32118,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Eastern District of California (Sacramento).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   schurch3@bloomberg.net ;
Jared Goyette in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Sacramento  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  