-- Syrian Opposition Seeks U.S. Protection Against Assad’s R
-- B y   R o b e r t   T u t t l e   a n d   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2013-03-26T12:29:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/syrian-opposition-seeks-u-s-protection-against-assad-s-r.html
The Syrian opposition urged the use
of Patriot missile batteries manned by  North Atlantic Treaty
Organization  personnel in  Turkey  to protect civilians in the
north from Syrian government rocket attacks.  The request was conveyed to Secretary of State John Kerry,
opposition leader Moaz al-Khatib, said during an Arab League
summit in Doha today. The U.S.,  Germany  and the Netherlands have
each deployed two Patriot missile defense batteries near the
Syrian border to defend NATO-member Turkey against a possible
missile attack from Syria.  “We are still waiting for a decision from NATO to protect
people’s lives, not to fight but to protect lives,” al-Khatib
told the conference. Kerry had “promised to study” the matter,
he said.  Since the struggle to topple the government of Bashar al- Assad started two years ago, the Syrian opposition has struggled
to create a unified political and military structure and has
been marred by leadership disagreements. The rebel Free Syrian
Army said on March 24 that it won’t recognize the Syrian
opposition’s newly elected interim Prime Minister Ghassan Hitto.  The same day, Arab foreign ministers in Doha agreed to give
the government’s vacant seat in the 22-member Arab League to an
executive body to be formed by the Syrian National Council
headed by al-Khatib. At the summit today, al-Khatib and Hitto
sat next to a rebel flag among Arab League officials.  ‘Illegal Precedent’  The Syrian government rejected the league’s decision.
Granting the government’s seat to “an entity that’s lacking in
the ability to survive” was an “illegal precedent that will
allow opposition groups in all Arab countries to demand”
similar treatment,  Syria ’s representative at the Arab League,
Ahmed Youssef, said last night in an interview with Al Mayadeen
TV, the  Syrian Arab News Agency  reported. The step was meant to
“facilitate the implementation of the plot” against Syria,
Youssef was cited as saying.  The Syrian government has accused Saudi Arabia and Qatar of
providing weapons to the rebels, which include fighters from the
Islamist al-Nusra Front, and destabilizing the country. Qatar’s
Emir Sheikh Hamad Bin Khalifa Al Thani called today for those
involved in crimes in Syria to be tried.  The opposition wants to have the Syrian government’s assets
frozen and to be given its seat at the United Nations, al-Khatib
said. No outside influence will decide who rules Syria after
Assad’s removal, the former Damascus cleric said.  Al-Khatib, whose offer to hold talks with Assad’s regime
was resisted by his comrades, resigned as head of the rebel
coalition the same day the Arab League agreed to recognize the
group as Syria’s representative. The Syrian National Coalition
rejected his resignation, asking al-Khatib “to go back to his
work as the president” of the group.  The civil war has killed about 100,000 people, displaced a
quarter of the Syrian population and led to 200,000 people being
held in government captivity, al-Khatib said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Tuttle in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net ;
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  