-- U.K. Stocks Rise on U.S. Durable Goods, Housing Reports
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2013-03-26T16:42:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/u-k-stocks-little-changed-before-u-s-house-prices-data.html
U.K. stocks  advanced, with the  FTSE
100 Index (UKX)  heading for its longest streak of monthly gains since
1997, as reports showed durable-goods orders and house prices in
the U.S. climbed more than estimated.  Aberdeen Asset Management Plc (ADN)  rose 4 percent after UBS AG
increased its estimate for the company’s full-year earnings.
Schroders Plc advanced 1.9 percent after Oriel Securities Ltd.
raised its recommendation on the shares.  Kazakhmys Plc (KAZ)  plunged
to its lowest price in almost four years after posting a full-
year loss.  The FTSE 100 Index added 20.99 points, or 0.3 percent, to
6,399.37 at the close in London. The gauge has gained 8.5
percent so far this year as U.S. lawmakers agreed on a
compromise budget and reports on jobs and housing fueled
optimism the world’s biggest economy is recovering. The broader
FTSE All-Share Index also gained 0.3 percent today, while
Ireland’s ISEQ Index lost 0.3 percent.  “We have had good data pointing to a recovery in the first
quarter,” said Manish Singh, who helps manage $2 billion as
head of investment at Crossbridge Capital in London. “Housing
data is on an upward climb and set to continue. The question is
whether it will continue into the summer.”  In the U.S., a Commerce Department report showed that
 orders for durable goods  rose 5.7 percent in February, after
dropping a revised 3.8 percent in January. Economists had
forecast that goods intended to last for at least three years
would climb 3.9 percent, according to a Bloomberg survey.  U.S. Housing  A separate release showed that  house prices  in 20 American
cities surged 8.1 percent in the 12 months through January, the
largest increase since June 2006. Economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News had forecast 7.9 percent.  In the U.K., the Financial Services Authority plans to cut
in half the time it takes new banks to get approval and the
amount of capital they need to hold, according to a person
familiar with the changes. The FSA will hand over supervision of
banks to the Prudential Regulation Authority next week.  Aberdeen Asset Management rallied 4 percent to 428.4 pence
after UBS increased its estimates for earnings in 2013 and 2014,
citing better-than-expected flows into high-margin equity funds
and stronger performance in the two months ended February.  Schroders Earnings  Schroders (SDR)  added 1.9 percent to 2,130 pence as Oriel raised
its recommendation on Europe’s biggest publicly traded money
manager to add from hold, meaning investors should buy more of
the shares. The brokerage said Schroders’ acquisition of
Cazenove Capital Holdings Ltd. will increase earnings per share
by 7 percent.  Kazakhmys plunged 8.6 percent to 405.3 pence, its lowest
price since April 2009, after posting a  full-year net loss  of
$2.27 billion and cutting its dividend. Kazakhstan’s biggest
copper producer wrote down its 26 percent stake in Eurasian
Natural Resources Corp. after the value of its holding decreased
to $2.03 billion from $4.6 billion. ENRC retreated 3 percent to
260 pence.  Wolseley Plc (WOS) , the world’s largest distributor of plumbing
and heating products, slipped 1.2 percent to 3,173 pence after
Chief Executive Officer Ian Meakins said in a statement that the
company expects weak market conditions in Europe.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in London at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  