-- U.K.’s Osborne Attacks Euro Area Over Handling of Cyprus
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2013-03-26T17:34:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/u-k-s-osborne-attacks-euro-area-over-handling-of-cyprus-bailout.html
U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  criticized euro-area countries over their
handling of Cyprus’s 10 billion-euro ($13 billion) bailout.  “It has not been well handled over the last 10 days,”
Osborne told the House of Commons Treasury Committee in London
today. The chancellor criticized an initial plan to tax all  bank
deposits  to help pay for the rescue and said he made “strong
representations” to change it.  Cyprus was spared a disorderly sovereign default and
unprecedented exit from the euro early yesterday by bowing to
demands from creditors to shrink its banking system in exchange
for aid. It was the second time in nine days that the
Mediterranean island struck a deal with its euro partners and
the  International Monetary Fund . Parliament in Nicosia rejected
a key plank of the first accord, a tax on all bank accounts that
sparked the indignation of smaller depositors.  The U.K. made representations to Cyprus,  Russia  and the IMF
to stop account holders with less than 100,000 euros from being
made to contribute to the Cyprus bailout, Osborne said. He said
he’s “pleased” it isn’t a feature of the final deal.  “We did not have prior notice -- as I think most of the
euro zone did not have prior notice -- of the decision that the
Cypriots took that they would include insured depositors,”
Osborne said. “Once that became known to us and everyone else
involved in this process, we made strong representations to the
various bodies involved that we didn’t think that was a sensible
step.”  U.K. ‘Solution’  The chancellor also said he doesn’t want U.K. branches of
 Cyprus Popular Bank Pcl (CPB)  to be affected by the bailout deal.  “The Treasury is working with the Cypriot authorities on a
British solution,” he said. “Those discussions are taking
place. I can’t say a great deal more about them. We are engaged
in negotiations to try an avoid the branches of the Cyprus
Popular Bank in the U.K. becoming sucked into the Cypriot
resolution process.”  Osborne also said the Treasury has sent Tom Scholar, its
second permanent secretary, to advise the Cypriot government,
drawing on Britain’s recent experience of bank bailouts.  On the  crisis in Cyprus , he said it was “a long time in
the making.” Euro-area governments, while making attempts to
protect their taxpayers and learn the lessons of previous
bailouts, acted too slowly, and the previous Cypriot president
had also hindered a solution, the chancellor said.  “It’s clearly the case that we all would have been better
served if the euro zone had moved more swiftly to deal with its
problems. It’s been a painstakingly slow process,” he said.
“We will make clear where we think mistakes have been made.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in  London  at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  