-- U.K. Housing-Benefit Safety Net May Be Insufficient, Panel Says
-- B y   E d d i e   B u c k l e
-- 2013-03-26T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/u-k-housing-benefit-safety-net-may-be-insufficient-panel-says.html
The U.K. government may not have
set aside enough money to help people in need as a result of
cuts to housing-benefit payments, a committee of lawmakers said.  The 390 million pounds ($590 million) earmarked by the
Department for Work and Pensions for discretionary payments over
four years “was not based on any rational assessment of need,”
Margaret Hodge, the opposition Labour Party member who heads the
House of Commons  Public Accounts Committee , said in an e-mailed
statement. The panel published its report in London today.  Payments to 2 million of the 5 million households who
receive housing benefit are expected to be reduced, saving 6.2
billion pounds over the four years to 2015 according to the
department, the panel said. Those in privately rented homes will
have their benefits cut and there will be deductions for
claimants in accommodation with unused rooms, a measure attacked
by Labour as a “bedroom tax.”  “Even small reductions in housing benefit can have a
severe impact on the finances of the poorest people,” Hodge
said. The DWP “has failed to take into account the
administrative costs of implementing the changes and the
potential knock-on costs to other services, for example if
homelessness does rise. These costs could be high for local
authorities.”  Housing benefit has almost doubled in a decade to more than
23 billion pounds a year, “so it’s absolutely necessary that we
get that spending under control,” the DWP said in a statement.
“We are closely monitoring the reforms to ensure councils are
informing people about the changes, and spending the extra 390
million pounds we have provided to support their residents.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eddie Buckle in  London  at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  