-- U.K. Acts to Help Pensioners in Cyprus Hit by Bank Shutdowns
-- B y   E d d i e   B u c k l e
-- 2013-03-26T13:23:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/u-k-acts-to-help-pensioners-in-cyprus-hit-by-bank-shutdowns.html
The U.K. government said senior
citizens living in Cyprus should consider diverting pension
payments into different accounts as banks on the Mediterranean
island remain closed.  “We are advising customers to change the bank account into
which payments are made, for example by nominating an
alternative bank account or the account of a ‘trusted friend,’”
Pensions Minister Steve Webb said in a written statement to
Parliament in London today. “This is a practical measure to
ensure that payments reach our customers promptly, and we are
not advising these customers to close their Cypriot bank
accounts.”  The U.K. Treasury set up an arrangement with  Barclays Plc (BARC) 
so that pensioners can open another bank account quickly if they
need to do so, Webb said. Staff at the Department for Work and
Pensions are contacting individuals in Cyprus by e-mail and
phone, he said.  Cypriot banks have been closed except for limited cash-
machine withdrawals since an initial international bailout
accord was reached on March 16. The government yesterday
extended the bank holiday through March 27. Restrictions on
money transfers probably won’t be loosened for weeks as the
island digests the impact of the European Union decision to
close the second-largest Cypriot bank and impose losses on
uninsured depositors, Finance Minister Michael Sarris said in a
Bloomberg Television interview today.  There are 18,000 British pensioners in Cyprus, a third of
whom already get their pensions paid into U.K. accounts,
according to the DWP. Last week, the Royal Air Force flew 1
million euros ($1.3 million) to Cyprus for U.K. military
personnel stationed on the island to ensure they didn’t run out
of cash.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eddie Buckle in  London  at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  