-- U.K. Sets Out Nuclear Strategy to Tap $1.8 Trillion Market
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2013-03-26T14:23:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/u-k-sets-out-nuclear-strategy-to-tap-1-8-trillion-market.html
The U.K. set out a nuclear  strategy 
today as it attempts to tap a global market the government
estimates will be worth almost 1.2 trillion pounds ($1.8
trillion) over the next two decades.  The strategy includes 45 million pounds in spending on
atomic research and development, including a contribution to a
French test facility, according to a statement today from the
Department of Business, Innovation and Skills. The government
also said it’s keen to explore small modular reactors.  The U.K. is trying to kick-start its nuclear industry 18
years after the country’s last reactor was completed. With all
but one of Britain’s plants due to shut by 2023, the government
is in talks with Electricite de France SA to build a new reactor
at Hinkley Point in southwest  England , with discussions
centering on the power price and the length of the contract.  “There are huge global opportunities that the U.K. is
well-placed to take advantage of in the nuclear industry,”
Business Secretary Vince Cable said in the statement. “Our
strong research base will help develop exciting new technologies
that can be commercialized here and then exported across the
globe.”  The strategy is based on a report today from a board of
scientists chaired by the government’s chief scientific adviser,
John Beddington. The scientists recommended the government
establish an R&D program to boost skills and spur new nuclear
technologies for the domestic and export markets.  Cutting Carbon  The government has considered various energy mixes of
renewables, carbon capture and storage, bioenergy and nuclear to
achieve its goal to cut  carbon emissions  by 80 percent from 1990
levels by 2050. Beddington’s model assumed the most nuclear
power -- a sevenfold increase to 75 gigawatts of capacity in
2050.  “We cannot see a sensible strategy which does not involve
some degree of nuclear,” Beddington told reporters at a
briefing in  London  today. Without the U.K. ramping up investment
in atomic research, “I have concerns that there are issues
around the nuclear program.”  Failure to build the planned 16 gigawatts of new reactors
by 2025 will jeopardize legally binding emissions targets,
Parliament’s Energy and Climate Change Committee said March 4.
The former government’s chief scientific adviser, Sir  David
King , said last year that a better nuclear strategy is needed,
or “the risk of the lights going off is very serious.”  Hinkley Point  The government is in talks with EDF, which a week ago won
planning permission to build two reactors at Hinkley Point. The
generator is seeking a guaranteed power price of 95 pounds to
99.50 pounds a megawatt-hour, about twice the current wholesale
market rate. The government wants to keep costs down to minimize
the impact on consumers.  Cable’s department today pledged 15 million pounds toward
the creation of a National Nuclear Users Facility for
universities and companies doing research on nuclear technology.  The department also said 35 R&D projects have won 18
million pounds of funding that’s expected to leverage a further
13 million pounds of private sector money. About 12.5 million
pounds will be paid for the U.K. to join the Jules Horowitz Test
Reactor that’s being built in  France , giving the U.K. access to
a radiation-testing facility.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  