-- U.S. Charges Two in $27 Million Insider-Trading Scheme
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-03-27T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/u-s-charges-two-in-27-million-insider-trading-scheme.html
A former Foundry Networks Inc.
executive was charged in what prosecutors called a $27 million
insider-trading scheme with tipping a  California  hedge fund
analyst about the company’s acquisition by  Brocade
Communications Systems Inc. (BRCD)   David Riley, 47, the former chief information officer for
Foundry Networks, and Matthew Teeple, 41, an analyst for an
unidentified San Francisco-based hedge fund, were charged
yesterday in a felony complaint filed in federal court in
 Manhattan , prosecutors said. The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission also sued the two, as well as third man, John V.
Johnson.  Riley and Teeple are charged with conspiracy and  securities
fraud . The most serious charge of securities fraud carries a
sentence of as long as 20 years in prison, Manhattan U.S.
Attorney Preet Bharara’s office said. Johnson, 46, of Arvada
Colorado, who the U.S. said was a portfolio manager for a
Denver-based firm, pleaded guilty to insider-trading charges on
March 18 before U.S. District Judge John Keenan in  New York .  “When  David Riley  and Matthew Teeple chose to traffic in
inside information involving high-tech companies, they embarked
on a high-stakes game that has repeatedly proven to be
unwinnable,” Bharara said in a statement.  Brocade Deal  On July 16, 2008, Riley provided secret tips about Foundry
being acquired by Brocade to Teeple before the deal was
announced on July 21, 2008, prosecutors said. Within two hours
of his conversation with Riley, Teeple called an analyst at the
unidentified investment adviser, causing the fund to execute
trades based on the inside information, according to the U.S.  In total, trading on the tips, one investment adviser
earned more than $16 million and avoided losses of more than $11
million, Bharara’s office said.  The U.S. said Teeple also provided tips about Foundry’s
2008 acquisition by Brocade to two acquaintances, Johnson and
Karl Motey, a California-based  investment adviser . Johnson
traded the information and made more than $136,000 in profit,
prosecutors said.  The investment adviser, which wasn’t named by the U.S., is
a registered investment adviser based in  San Francisco  that
serves multiple  hedge funds  that have about $1.7 billion of
assets under management, the SEC said.  Pension System  The SEC identifies Johnson as currently serving as the
chief investment officer of a state pension system. At the time
the SEC alleges the insider trading occurred, Johnson was
unemployed and traded securities in his and his family members’
personal brokerage accounts.  Motey, a former technology stock analyst, pleaded guilty
and has been cooperating with the U.S. in its insider-trading
investigations. He testified for the government in two insider-
trading trials and secretly recorded more than 400 conversations
for the  Federal Bureau  of Investigation in New York.  Motey testified against Doug Whitman, the founder of
Whitman Capital LLC, and James Fleishman, a former executive for
Primary Global Research LLC. Both Whitman and Fleishman were
convicted after federal trials in New York. Motey was sentenced
in February to time served.  Teeple was arrested by FBI agents yesterday morning in San
Clemente, California. He appeared before a federal magistrate in
 Santa Ana , California, and was released on two $100,000 bonds
secured by his wife and his father. Teeple was ordered to appear
in federal court in New York by April 8.  Teeple’s Lawyer  “Mr. Teeple intends to vigorously defend himself against
the government’s allegations,”  Nathan Hochman , a lawyer for
Teeple, said in a phone interview.  John Kaley, a lawyer for Riley, didn’t immediately return a
voice-mail message seeking comment on the criminal charges or
the SEC lawsuit. Joshua Franklin, a lawyer for Johnson, declined
to comment on his client’s guilty plea.  Riley was arrested by the FBI yesterday morning in  San
Jose , California, and was scheduled to appear in federal court
in the Northern District of California yesterday, prosecutors
said.  Teeple, Riley and Johnson are the latest to be charged as
part of a law enforcement initiative by Bharara’s office and the
FBI in New York against insider trading at hedge funds. At least
80 people have been arrested since August 2009 as part of the
 insider-trading  crackdown. Bharara’s office has won convictions
of at least 72 people.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Riley, 13-mag-00806, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan). The
SEC case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Teeple, 13-
cv-02010, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  