-- U.S.-German Yield Gap Most Since 2010 on Cyprus Bailout
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-03-26T07:24:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/u-s-german-yield-gap-most-since-2010-on-cyprus-bailout.html
Treasuries yielded the most versus
German bunds in 33 months, reflecting demand for safety in
 Europe  after Cyprus won a bailout that imposes losses on bond
holders.  The  spread  was 59 basis points, the most since June 2010.
Investors snapped up German debt yesterday on speculation
Cyprus’s rescue will set a precedent for the euro region. Senior
Cypriot bank bond holders will take losses and uninsured
depositors will be largely wiped out. The U.S. is scheduled to
sell $35 billion of two-year debt today in the first of three
note auctions this week totaling $99 billion.  “There’s a concern that Cyprus is a template for the rest
of Europe,” said Kei Katayama, who buys non-yen debt for Daiwa
SB Investments Ltd. in  Tokyo , which manages the equivalent of
$52.9 billion and is part of  Japan ’s second-largest brokerage.
“The first reaction may be to buy bunds. The U.S. economy is
much better than expected. I’m bearish on Treasuries.”  U.S. 10-year  yields  were little changed at 1.92 percent as
of 6:43 a.m. in  London , according to Bloomberg Bond Trader data.
The rate compares to the record low of 1.38 percent set in July
and the average of 3.61 percent for the past decade. The price
of the 2 percent note due in February 2023 was 100 22/32.  The premium over  Germany ’s yield was about double the 10-
year average.  Daiwa SB is favoring shorter-maturity Treasuries that will
fall least if yields rise, Katayama said. It is holding longer
maturities in Germany, he said.  BOJ Policy  Japan’s 10-year rate declined as much as 3 basis points, or
0.03 percentage point, to 0.525 percent, extending its slide to
the lowest levels since 2003.  Bank of Japan (8301)  Governor Haruhiko Kuroda told lawmakers today
that he’ll consider extending bond maturities for the bank’s
asset purchase fund as part of his plan to fight deflation in
the nation.  Singapore sold S$3.1 billion ($2.5 billion) of five-year
notes at an average yield of 0.48 percent, Monetary Authority of
Singapore said in statement. It was the lowest based on MAS data
going back to 1987.  Treasuries have fallen 0.5 percent this quarter after
accounting for interest payments, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch indexes.  Bunds gained 0.1 percent and Japanese bonds returned 2.3
percent, the figures show. Singapore bonds dropped 1 percent.  Treasury losses have further to go as the  U.S. economy 
improves, said Yoshiyuki Suzuki, head of fixed income in Tokyo
at Fukoku Mutual Life Insurance Co., which has about $60.4
billion in assets.  “The U.S. economy is relatively better than other
nations,” Suzuki said. “I expect higher yields.”  Treasury Outlook  Ten-year rates may rise to 2.5 percent by Dec. 31, he said.
An investor who bought today would lose 3.2 percent if the
forecast is correct, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Orders for U.S. durable goods probably rose in February by
the most in five months, according to economist estimates before
a report today.  The expected 3.9 percent increase in bookings for goods
meant to last at least three years would follow a 4.9 percent
decline in January, based on a Bloomberg News  survey  of
economists before the Commerce Department report at 8:30 a.m. in
 Washington . Separate data will show the residential real-estate
market improved, based on responses from economists.  The U.S. jobless rate fell to a four-year low of 7.7
percent in February.  The  Federal Reserve  is buying $85 billion of Treasury and
mortgage debt a month to support the economy by putting downward
pressure on borrowing costs.  Bond Purchases  Fed Bank of  New York  President William C. Dudley said
yesterday the central bank should maintain its asset purchases
because budget cuts will restrain growth.  Dallas Fed President  Richard Fisher  said today in a speech
in  Abu Dhabi  that he favors tapering asset purchases as the U.S.
economy improves. The pace of expansion will quicken to 3
percent by year end from 2.2 percent in 2012, he said.  Fisher doesn’t vote on monetary policy this year. The
president of the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York  is a permanent
voting member of the policy committee.  The two-year notes scheduled for sale today yielded 0.26
percent in pre-auction trading. Because of the securities’ short
maturity, their yields tend to track what the Fed does with its
target for overnight lending, and the central bank said last
week it plans to keep the rate in a range of zero to 0.25
percent.  The prior two-year sale on Feb. 25 drew  bids  for 3.33 times
the amount of debt available, the lowest level at the monthly
auctions since July 2011.  The U.S. plans to sell $35 billion of five-year notes
tomorrow and $29 billion of seven-year debt on March 28.  Treasuries are set to close worldwide on March 29 for Good
Friday, according to the New-York based Securities Industry and
Financial Markets Association’s  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in  Singapore  at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  