-- UN’s Ban Recommends Putting 11,200 Peacekeepers in Mali
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2013-03-26T22:11:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/un-s-ban-recommends-putting-11-200-peacekeepers-in-mali.html
United Nations Secretary General
Ban Ki-Moon recommended that as many as 11,200 United Nations
peacekeepers and a special counterterrorist unit be deployed to
Mali to take over the fight against Islamic insurgents in the
land-locked African nation, relieving  France .  Ban laid out the options for Mali in a 26-page report
obtained by  Bloomberg News , as France seeks to pull back 4,000
troops following its January intervention to rid the north of
Islamist militants. About 7,000 African troops helping France
should become a UN peacekeeping force, according to the report.  As a former colonial power with the most at stake in Mali,
the French still are set to play an important if diminished role
alongside a UN force of seven mobile infantry battalions, one
reserve battalion and about 1,440 police operating in the north.  “Given the anticipated level and nature of the residual
threat, there would be a fundamental requirement for a parallel
force to operate in Mali (and potentially in the sub-region)
alongside the  United Nations  mission in order to conduct major
combat and counter-terrorism operations and provide specialist
support beyond the scope of the United Nations’ mandate and
capability,” Ban says in the report.  France has been mapping out an exit strategy for Mali for
months as the UN solidifies plans to turn African forces into
so-called Blue Helmets, as UN peacekeepers are often known.  Resilient Militants  Those plans are now being tested by the resilience of the
same Islamist militants who for 10 months controlled a vast,
arid swath of Mali the size of  Texas . While the French offensive
drove the radicals into hiding, a pattern of guerilla-style
fighting to retake the liberated city of Gao has emerged.  “An unknown number of fighters have sought refuge outside
 Mali  or have melted back into the population, retaining weapons
caches and the capacity to re-emerge,” Ban said in the report.
“These groups are well equipped and trained. They have fought
aggressively, and employ guerilla and terrorist tactics,
including rockets, improvised explosive devices and suicide
bombs.”  The situation complicates conditions for a smooth
transition to a UN force and does little to quell concerns that
extremism has taken root in Mali’s sparsely inhabited north
while, in the south, a crisis in governance encompasses
corruption, political instability and almost no rule of law,
according to the report.  “The assumption of security responsibilities by the
mission would only take place once the necessary security and
political conditions were deemed to be in place,” Ban said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in United Nations at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  