-- Hungary Raises Rate-Cut Threshold in Matolcsy Surprise
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n   a n d   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2013-03-27T09:58:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/hungary-set-for-record-low-rates-as-matolcsy-takes-over.html
Hungary’s central bank tightened
the conditions for monetary easing after cutting borrowing costs
to a record low, signaling a cautious approach at new head
 Gyorgy Matolcsy ’s first rate decision that boosted the forint.  The Magyar Nemzeti Bank reduced the  two-week deposit rate 
by a quarter-point to 5 percent yesterday, trimming it for an
eighth month and matching the forecast of 25 of 29 economists in
a Bloomberg survey. The cuts can continue if market confidence
improves, policy makers said in a statement.  “While these are flexible self-imposed rules, we believe
they refer to the Monetary Council’s preference of a stronger
forint and lower government yields,”  Janos Samu , economist at
Budapest-based brokerage Concorde Zrt., said yesterday in an e-
mailed note. “Given these considerations, we see a high chance
of the council keeping the  base rate  unchanged next month.”  Hungary ’s currency had weakened as Matolcsy’s appointment
sparked speculation over the direction of monetary policy,
including the possible use of reserves to stimulate the economy
and reduce foreign-currency loans. The country is in its second
recession in four years and the central bank yesterday said the
inflation rate is headed below its 3 percent target
“throughout” the horizon for monetary policy.  Currency Surge  The forint strengthened for a third day, rising 0.3 percent
against the euro to trade at 303.51 by 10:08 a.m. in Budapest
after jumping the most in more than a week after the rate
decision yesterday. That pared the currency’s loss in the past
month to 2.6 percent against the euro, the worst among more than
20 emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Yesterday’s comment from the central bank was a departure
from last month, when policy makers said inflation in line with
the 3 percent target and continuing “favorable market trends”
are needed for further monetary easing.  Still, investors stepped up expectations for further rate
cuts after yesterday’s decision. The main rate may drop to 4
percent in the next six months, forward-rate agreements
indicate.  The bias in the Monetary Council is “clearly for key rate
cuts,” while keeping an eye on the  exchange rate , according to
Nicolaie Alexandru-Chidesciuc, an analyst at JP Morgan.  The central bank will continue to test markets before
deciding on unconventional measures, which may include a
funding-for-lending program that provides companies with funding
at below-market rates, he said yesterday by e-mail from  London .  Inflation Forecast  The central bank yesterday cut its inflation forecast for
this year while maintaining its economic-growth estimate.
Inflation will be 2.6 percent rather than the 3.5 percent
forecast in December, with gross domestic product expanding 0.5
percent, it said. Consumer prices may rise 2.8 percent next
year, while growth may be 1.7 percent in 2014, it said.  Inflation was the slowest in almost seven years in February
as the government cut household energy costs. The rate dropped
to 2.8 percent, below the bank’s 3 percent target and down from
3.7 percent in January. The bank will publish its full quarterly
inflation report tomorrow.  Yesterday’s rate cut was “supported by a very benign new
inflation projection,” Pasquale Diana, a London-based Morgan
Stanley economist, said in a report today. The bank “may well
have cut by more at the March meeting, had it not been for a
challenging risk backdrop.”  Investors were also watching for indications of Matolcsy’s
self-styled unorthodox policies being introduced. There was no
mention of unconventional tools in the statement.  As economy minister, Matolcsy nationalized private-pension
fund assets and levied retroactive industry taxes, damaging
investments, lending and growth and losing Hungary’s investment-
grade credit rating.  ‘Unorthodox’ Policies  Before his appointment, Matolcsy called for the “brave”
use of “unorthodox” monetary-policy tools in December in a
column in the weekly Heti Valasz, sending the forint to its
weakest in seven months.  The central bank can support the government’s policies and
boost the economy as long as it doesn’t jeopardize price and
financial stability, Matolcsy said after his nomination on March
1. The bank should “review” buying  government bonds  on the
secondary market, Economy Minister  Mihaly Varga  said in a
Portfolio.hu interview published yesterday.  Since Matolcsy’s appointment, the Monetary Council was
expanded by two members to nine, with Gyula Pleschinger, who was
the new central bank chief’s deputy at the Economy Ministry and
Balog, a former deputy state secretary for tax issues in
Matolcsy’s ministry. Of the previous leadership,  Ferenc Karvalits ’s mandate expires tomorrow.  “The real surprise comes from an increasingly cautious
assessment about the recent deterioration in risk indicators,”
 Eszter Gargyan , a Budapest-based economist at Citigroup Inc.,
said by e-mail. “While the council remains overall in a dovish
mood, based on growth and inflation outlook, the wording of the
statement signals the possibility of a pause in rate cuts next
month if there is no improvement in key risk indicators.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net ;
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  