-- University of North Carolina Disciplinary Hearing Suspended
-- B y   J o h n   L a u e r m a n
-- 2013-03-26T17:52:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/university-of-north-carolina-disciplinary-hearing-suspended.html
The University of  North Carolina  at
 Chapel Hill  suspended a disciplinary hearing for a student
because the U.S. government may investigate the undergraduate’s
claims that the school retaliated against her for speaking out
about sexual assaults on campus.  Proceedings of the Honor Court, a conduct board run by
students, will be paused with regard to the case, UNC Chancellor
Holder Thorp, said in an e-mailed statement today.  UNC is the subject of two investigations of its response to
and reporting of campus sexual assault cases after a group of
women filed complaints with the Education Department’s Office of
 Civil Rights  this year. Landen Gambill, who is part of that
group, has filed a separate claim that the university tried to
silence and discredit her through the Honor Court, the Daily Tar
Heel student newspaper  reported  yesterday.  “Recognizing the potential conflicts that may exist by
allowing both processes to continue, we have asked the Student
Attorney General to suspend the Honor Court proceeding pending
an external review of these allegations of retaliation,” Thorp
said in the statement. “The university takes all allegations of
retaliation seriously, whether against an individual or an
institution, and this allegation is no exception.”  The Honor Court case was brought by Gambill’s ex-boyfriend,
who she has accused of rape, according to the Daily Tar Heel. He
has said that Gambill’s discussion of sexual assault made the
campus environment intimidating and uncomfortable for him, the
student newspaper reported. Gambill has denied identifying him
publicly.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Lauerman in Boston at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  