-- Turkey Central Bank Unexpectedly Cuts Top End of Rates Corridor
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 2013-03-26T15:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/turkey-central-bank-unexpectedly-cuts-top-end-of-rates-corridor.html
Turkey ’s central bank unexpectedly
cut the top end of its so-called interest rates corridor and
said it’s placing more emphasis on bank reserve requirements to
manage capital flows and credit growth.  The Monetary Policy Committee in Ankara cut its overnight
lending rate to 7.5 percent from 8.5 percent, according to a
statement on the bank’s website today. The median estimate in a
Bloomberg survey of 10 economists predicted no change, while two
economists predicted a quarter-point decrease.  Central bank Governor Erdem Basci introduced the rates
corridor in October 2011, allowing him to vary rates on a daily
basis in response to changes in capital flows and the value of
the lira. The bank said today the need for a wide corridor had
significantly decreased.  “The Committee has decided to increase the effectiveness
of the Reserve Options Mechanism gradually in response to the
heightened volatility in capital inflows,” the central bank
said today. “The automatic stabilizer effect of this mechanism
reduces the need for a wider interest rate corridor.”  The reserve option mechanism is the multiplier at which
banks are allowed to keep required reserves for lira liabilities
in either foreign exchange or gold at the central bank. Raising
the multiplier, as the bank did today, makes it more expensive
to keep the reserves in foreign exchange or gold. Moody’s
Investors Service senior credit analyst Sarah Carlson called the
mechanism “untested” and “unique” in a confererence on
Turkey in Istanbul on Nov. 21.  Yields Rise  The central bank kept its benchmark one-week repo rate at
5.5 percent and its overnight borrowing rate, the lower band of
the corridor, at 4.5 percent, in line with forecasts. Today’s
cut means the bank has lowered at least one of its three rates
at every meeting since September.  The Turkish lira pared gains and  bond yields  rose after the
decision. The lira gained 0.3 percent to 1.8165 per dollar at
4:15 p.m. in Istanbul. Bond yields rose two basis points to 6.33
percent, extending their increase this month to 64 basis points,
the biggest increase among 20 major  emerging markets  tracked by
Bloomberg.  The central bank did not adjust reserve requirement ratios
as widely expected, indicating an expectation that
“decelerating capital inflows will likely limit loan growth in
coming months,” Hakan Aklar, an economist at Ak Investment in
Istanbul, said in an e-mailed report today. “Uncertainties in
global markets require a flexible monetary policy” and “in
today’s minutes, there was not a clear signal for policy
implementation for the coming months,” he said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benjamin Harvey at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net  