-- Hutchison Whampoa Income Beats Estimates on Mobiles Unit
-- B y   L u l u   Y i l u n   C h e n
-- 2013-03-27T01:52:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/hutchison-whampoa-profit-beats-estimates-on-investments.html
Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) , billionaire
 Li Ka-shing ’s biggest company, posted full-year profit that beat
analyst estimates on improved earnings from retail, telecom and
utilities businesses from China to the U.K.  Net income  was HK$26.1 billion ($3.4 billion) in 2012, the
Hong Kong-based company said yesterday. That compares with the
HK$24 billion average of eight  analyst estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg. Recurring earnings, which excludes asset sales and
property revaluations, jumped 19 percent to HK$26.8 billion.  Growth in retail and property as well as foreign exchange
gains boosted operating income, the company said. Li, Asia’s
richest man, acquired new wireless spectrum in the U.K. and
bought the third-ranked mobile carrier in  Austria  to bolster
phone services in Europe as his ports business expanded in Hong
Kong on a bet on rising trade in the south  China  region.  “Income from retail was quite solid,” said Louis Tse, a
Hong Kong-based director at VC Brokerage Ltd. “They receive
quite a bit of revenue in euro, and in the second half of last
year the euro had a rebound.”  Hutchison, with investments in more than 50 countries,
increased revenue 4 percent to HK$398 billion, it said.  Shares of Hutchison rose 0.7 percent to HK$81.25 at 9:36
a.m. in Hong Kong trading. The earnings were released after
yesterday’s close.  Global Empire  Li, 84, is 15th on the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index  with a
net worth of $27.2 billion as of today. Since opening a plastic
flower factory following World War II, the man nicknamed
“superman” by the local media for his investing prowess has
expanded his empire to span ports in China, property in Hong
Kong, mobile phone carriers in  Europe  and oil exploration in
 Canada .  Hutchison said earnings before interest and tax at its
European mobile phone unit, which operates the 3 brand in the
U.K., doubled to HK$3.1 billion on data and smartphone sales.  The division, which owns units in six countries in Europe,
posted its first annual profit in 2010, seven years after
starting services. In January, it completed the purchase of
Orange Austria, the nation’s third ranked carrier.  “All our businesses are in the contributing stage now, the
3 Group in particular,” Group Managing Director Canning Fok
said at a news conference in Hong Kong yesterday. “The Hong
Kong Group is always solid.”  Earnings from finance and investments surged almost
fivefold to HK$2.3 billion after realizing foreign exchange
gains and higher interest income.  Roads, Utilities  Ebit from ports fell 0.7 percent to HK$7.8 billion.  The company owns 28 percent of  Hutchison Port Holdings
Trust (HPHT) , which Li spun off in 2011 with assets in China and Hong
Kong. The trust this month bought a Hong Kong box terminal from
DP World Ltd. and a partner as the billionaire bets on rising
trade in the south China region.  Cheung Kong Infrastructure Holdings Ltd., the roads and
utilities arm of Hutchison, rose 23 percent to HK$16.6 billion.  Property and hotels Ebit rose 11 percent to HK$10.5 billion
after boosting rental rates and maintaining occupancy levels, it
said,  “In the middle of last year, you can see some sign of
rebound and recovery in the global economy,” said Kenny Tang Sing Hing, General Manager at AMTD Financial Planning Ltd before
the earnings.  Husky Energy Inc. (HSE) , the Calgary, Alberta-based oil producer
part-owned by Hutchison, last month reported 2012 profit fell
9.1 percent amid lower-than-expected refining margins.  Husky’s contribution to Hutchison earnings fell 14 percent
to HK$7.4 billion.  Hutchison’s retail business, which includes Hong Kong’s
PARKnSHOP supermarket stores and the A.S. Watson cosmetics
chain, said earnings gained 7.7 percent to HK$10 billion.  “In 2013, the A.S. Watson group will continue to expand
its store base in regions with high growth potential, including
the Mainland and certain Asian countries,” the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lulu Yilun Chen in Hong Kong at 
 ychen447@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Fenner at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net  