-- Wal-Mart Targets Web Sales With Lockers, Mobile App Technology
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2013-03-27T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/wal-mart-targets-web-sales-with-lockers-mobile-app-technology.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the world’s
largest retailer, is trying out new delivery methods and adding
to its mobile technology to improve Web-based shopping and step
up its challenge to  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)   Wal-Mart is testing lockers that let customers order items
online and pick them up in stores without interacting with a
sales representative, the company said yesterday at an event in
San Bruno,  California . The program is in trials in fewer than 12
stores, the retailer said.  Wal-Mart has started shipping items from some U.S. stores
directly to consumers, and plans to double the locations
participating in that test to about 50, said Joel Anderson,
chief executive officer of Walmart.com in the U.S. The retailer
is experimenting with ways to use its more than 4,000 domestic
locations nationwide to improve e-commerce sales after Amazon
made a push to get closer to customers by adding 20 fulfillment
centers across the country last year.  Shoppers “are one click away from someone else,” Anderson
said at the event. Stores need to find a way to add value beyond
sales associates, because before consumers even walk into stores
they have often done more research about specific products than
employees have, he said.  Lockers complement the company’s website-to-store program,
which lets people order online and pick up items from a sales
representative at any Wal-Mart location in the U.S.  Mobile App  To compete with applications for smartphones and tablets
from Amazon and  EBay Inc. (EBAY) , Wal-Mart is also building up its
presence in mobile, which accounts for about a third of traffic
to the company’s website, according to Gibu Thomas, senior vice
president of mobile and digital in the company’s global e-
commerce division.  Functions being tested would let customers scan and track
what they’re buying as they walk through a store, browse
coupons, and transfer the list of items scanned from a mobile
phone to a self-checkout machine with just a few clicks --
without removing anything from the physical cart.  The Bentonville, Arkansas-based company already offers
self-checkout in about 1,800 stores and plans to increase that
number to 3,000 locations after purchasing about 10,000 machines
this year, according to Shannon Letts, vice president for U.S.
innovations.  Wal-Mart forecasts $9 billion in e-commerce sales in 2013,
the company said. Amazon, the largest online retailer, logged
$61.1 billion in revenue last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Kucera in  San Francisco  at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  