-- WTI Drops From 5-Week High; BofA Predicts Backwardation
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-03-27T12:49:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/wti-oil-trades-near-five-week-high-u-s-crude-stockpiles-gain.html
West Texas Intermediate slipped
from near a five-week high amid rising crude inventories in the
U.S., the world’s biggest consumer of the commodity.  Futures fell as much as 0.8 percent. Crude stockpiles
advanced 3.7 million barrels last week, the  American Petroleum
Institute  said yesterday. An Energy Department report today may
show a gain of 1.3 million, according to a Bloomberg News
survey. The euro fell to its weakest level since Nov. 21 against
the dollar, undermining the appeal of commodities priced in the
U.S. currency. Bank of America Corp. said front-month WTI
contracts may start trading at a premium, a price structure
known as backwardation.  “The crude inventory builds reported last night are
weighing on prices,” said  Robert Montefusco , a senior broker at
Sucden Financial Ltd. in  London , who earlier this month
correctly predicted  oil prices  would decline. “The euro is
getting bashed as  Europe ’s situation looks dire, which is also
pressuring oil.”  WTI for May delivery dropped as much as 76 cents to $95.58
a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , and was at $95.96 as of 12:40 p.m. London time. The
volume of all futures traded was 17 percent below the 100-day
average. The contract climbed $1.53 to $96.34 yesterday, the
biggest increase since Dec. 26 and highest close since Feb. 19.  Brent for May settlement gained 10 cents to $109.46 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
benchmark grade was at a premium of $13.51 to WTI after closing
yesterday at $13.02, the narrowest settlement since July.  Technical Resistance  The euro fell against the dollar, declining 0.6 percent to
$1.2784 at 12:41 p.m. London time. It dropped as low as $1.2762,
the lowest level since Nov. 21.  WTI crude prices may shift this year into a so-called
backwardated structure, in which immediate supplies are more
expensive than later deliveries, according to Bank of America.  The discount on front-month WTI futures, or contango, has
narrowed with the activation of the Seaway pipeline, which sends
crude from the U.S. storage hub in Cushing,  Oklahoma , to
refineries on the country’s  Gulf Coast , the bank said. The
contango was 27 cents a barrel today.  Depressed Consumers  Economic confidence in the euro area decreased more than
economists forecast in March, adding to signs that the 17-nation
currency bloc’s recession continued into the first quarter. An
index of executive and consumer sentiment decreased to 90 from
91.1 in February, the European Commission in Brussels said
today. Economists had forecast a drop to 90.5, according to the
median of 30 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  WTI faces technical resistance at a trend line joining the
peaks set by prices in March 2012 and January this year,
according to Ric Spooner, a chief market analyst at CMC Markets
in Sydney. The indicator is at about $96.14 a barrel today,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Sell orders are
typically clustered near resistance levels.  Gasoline stockpiles in the U.S. slid 2 million barrels, the
API said. They are forecast to decline  1 million barrels ,
according to the median estimate of 12 analysts in the Bloomberg
survey. Distillate inventories, a category that includes heating
oil and diesel, fell 1.9 million barrels, compared with a
projected 850,000 barrels drop in the survey.  The API collects stockpile information on a voluntary basis
from operators of refineries, bulk terminals and pipelines. The
government requires that reports be filed with the Energy
Information Administration, the Energy Department’s statistics
unit, for its weekly survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Raj Rajendran at 
 rrajendran4@bloomberg.net  