-- Yen Drops Versus Peers as BOJ’s Kuroda Outlines Easing
-- B y   K e v i n   B u c k l a n d   a n d   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2013-03-26T08:45:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/yen-holds-gain-versus-peers-as-boj-s-kuroda-speaks-in-parliament.html
(Corrects euro low in fourth paragraph.)  The yen fell against all its major
peers as  Bank of Japan (8301)  Governor Haruhiko Kuroda outlined
monetary easing options to achieve a 2 percent annual inflation
goal in two years.  Japan ’s currency snapped a three-day advance against the
dollar after Kuroda said the BOJ will consider extending the
maturities of bond purchases and scrapping a limit on such
buying. The euro traded 0.3 percent from a four-month low ahead
of debt auctions in Italy, where lawmakers are trying to form a
government after inconclusive elections last month.  Singapore ’s
dollar climbed for a fourth day, the longest streak this year.  “The speculative community has driven dollar-yen higher,”
said  Jonathan Cavenagh , a currency strategist in Singapore at
 Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  For Kuroda, “the bar is set quite high in
terms of what he’s going to have to deliver to give dollar-yen a
significant boost.”  The yen was little changed at 94.21 per dollar as of 6:46
a.m. in London, halting a three-day, 2 percent advance. It lost
0.2 percent to 121.28 per euro. Europe’s 17-nation currency rose
0.2 percent to $1.2873 from yesterday when it touched $1.2830,
the lowest since Nov. 22.  Kuroda told lawmakers today that the BOJ will discuss
purchasing more bonds with longer maturities. The BOJ currently
buys government debt maturing in three years or less through its
76 trillion-yen ($807 billion) asset-purchase program.  He also said the BOJ may scrap its so-called banknote rule
of keeping central bank bond holdings at less than the value of
banknotes outstanding. Policy specifics will be discussed at the
central bank board meeting, Kuroda said, with the next one
scheduled for April 3-4.  “Achieving the 2 percent inflation target in two years is
something that I have in my mind,” Kuroda said in the lower
house of parliament.  Kuroda Testimony  “It’s a strong pledge from a well-intended man, but I’m
not convinced it’s going to work,”  Stephen Roach , a senior
fellow at  Yale University  and former non-executive chairman for
Morgan Stanley in  Asia , said in a Bloomberg Television
interview. “It’s going to take a lot more to bring Japan out of
its long slump than just another effort at quantitative
easing.”  The yen has fallen 17 percent in the past six months, the
biggest decline among 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by
the Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The  U.S. dollar  and
euro have both gained 2.4 percent.  Italy is scheduled to sell bills today and bonds due in
2018 and 2023 tomorrow. The  euro zone ’s fourth-biggest economy
auctioned 2.8 billion euros ($3.6 billion) of 2014 zero-coupon
bonds yesterday at a yield of 1.746 percent, the highest since
Dec. 27.  Political Risk  Italy ’s Democratic Party leader Pier Luigi Bersani has two
days left to overcome a shortfall of support in parliament,
after President Giorgio Napolitano gave him a mandate on March
22 to try to form government.  “With the political risk in Italy continuing, it will be
hard for the euro to make any headway,” said Yuki Sakasai, a
foreign-exchange strategist at Barclays Plc in  New York .  The euro slumped 1.1 percent against the greenback
yesterday, the biggest decline in more than eight months amid
investor concern that a levy on  bank deposits  in Cyprus could be
replicated elsewhere.  European Union officials said that the Cyprus aid deal will
impose losses of as much as 40 percent on uninsured depositors
at  Bank of Cyprus Plc (BOCY)  and sees Cyprus Popular Bank Pcl being
wound down, wiping out bondholders.  Dutch Finance Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem, who leads the
group of 17 euro finance ministers, said imposing losses on
depositors and bondholders must be part of the bailout toolkit.  ‘Bad Precedent’  “It sets a very bad precedent for some of the other
countries that may need a bailout down the track,” said Derek Mumford, a director at Rochford Capital, a currency risk-
management company in Sydney. “The situation’s been handled
very badly, and I do think it’s bad for the euro zone and the
euro as a whole.”  In the U.S., orders of  durable goods  probably rebounded 3.9
percent in February from a 4.9 percent drop the month before,
according to the median estimate of economists surveyed by
 Bloomberg News  before the data is released today.  “The  Federal Reserve  remains on track to start scaling
back its quantitative easing this year,” Mansoor Mohi-uddin,
the Singapore-based chief currency strategist at UBS AG, wrote
in a research note. “Financial markets are likely to price in
such a move several months before it occurs.”  Rallies in the euro above $1.30 are unsustainable and the
 exchange rate  is likely to trend towards $1.20 by year end,
according to the note.  Dollar RSI  The dollar’s advance versus the yen may stall, Citigroup
Inc. said, citing declines in the relative strength index.  The greenback’s 14-day RSI against its Japanese counterpart
is near the neckline of 50 in a so-called head-and-shoulders
chart, and a drop below that level may indicate a pause in the
trend, Citigroup foreign-exchange strategist  Osamu Takashima 
wrote today in a note to clients.  The dollar touched 96.71 yen on March 12, the strongest
level since 2009.  Singapore’s currency climbed as much as 0.3 percent to
S$1.2405 per U.S. dollar, the strongest since March 4. The city
state yesterday reported a higher-than-estimated inflation rate
for February.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kevin Buckland in Tokyo at 
 kbuckland1@bloomberg.net ;
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  