-- Yen Declines Against Peers as Traders Bet on More BOJ Stimulus
-- B y   K e v i n   B u c k l a n d   a n d   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2013-03-27T07:04:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-26/yen-weakens-versus-peers-as-traders-bet-on-more-boj-stimulus.html
The yen dropped against most of its
major peers as traders bet  Bank of Japan (8301)  Governor Haruhiko
Kuroda will add to stimulus measures as early as next week in a
bid to end deflation.  Japan ’s currency slid for a second day before Kuroda appear
before parliament tomorrow after telling lawmakers yesterday he
aims to achieve 2 percent annual inflation in two years. The
euro traded 0.2 percent from a four-month low versus the dollar
as concern of contagion from Cyprus’s banking crisis sapped
confidence in the currency bloc. The won fell for the first time
in three days as the risk of conflict on the Korean peninsula
spurred sales of South Korean shares by global funds.  “Traders are very comfortable selling the yen, and that
won’t change after the policy meeting,” said Kikuko Takeda, a
senior currency economist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd in
 London , referring to the BOJ gathering on April 3-4. “Kuroda
will be focused on how to control market expectations over the
long term. That may be an even more pressing challenge for the
BOJ than aggressive easing.”  The yen weakened 0.3 percent to 94.71 against the dollar as
of 6:57 a.m. in London from yesterday, when it lost 0.3 percent.
It fell 0.2 percent to 121.70 versus the euro. The shared
currency slipped 0.1 percent to $1.2851 from yesterday, when it
touched $1.2829, the lowest since Nov. 22.  “Achieving the 2 percent inflation target in two years is
something that I have in my mind,” Kuroda told the lower house
of parliament yesterday.  Kuroda’s Plan  He said the BOJ may scrap the so-called banknote rule of
keeping its bond holdings at less than the value of banknotes
outstanding, and policy makers will discuss purchasing more debt
with longer maturities. The BOJ currently buys government notes
maturing in three years or less through its 76 trillion-yen
($802 billion) asset-purchase program.  Former BOJ Deputy Governor Kazumasa Iwata joined economists
in predicting that Kuroda will fail to meet his price-increase
goal.  “It’s impossible to achieve 2 percent inflation in two
years,” Iwata said in an interview yesterday. Even five years
won’t be easy, he said.  The yen has slid more than 8 percent against the dollar so
far this quarter amid mounting expectations for easing by the
BOJ, the second-worst performance among major peers after  South
Africa ’s rand. The  Mexican peso  is the biggest gainer with a 4.1
percent advance.  After the BOJ meeting next week “I think dollar-yen will
fall because expectations are so high for some big bang
approach,” said  Joseph Capurso , a Sydney-based foreign-exchange
strategist at  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) , said of next
week’s central bank gathering.  European Confidence  The euro remained lower for a second day after dropping 1.1
percent on March 25 ahead of data today set to confirm  consumer
confidence  in the region stayed depressed in March. The initial
reading from the European Commission in Brussels was minus 23.5,
amid signs the economy is struggling to pull out of recession.  The final figures for  French gross domestic product  will
probably confirm a 0.3 percent contraction in the fourth
quarter, the biggest in almost four years, according to the
median forecast of economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  The euro risks dropping toward parity with the  U.S. dollar 
over the next 2 1/2 years as the region enacts policies aimed at
weakening the currency to bolster growth, according to Hans- Guenter Redeker, the head of global currency strategy at Morgan
Stanley.  It will continue to decline as the bailout package for
Cyprus fans concern about the safety of  bank deposits  in the
region, Redeker said in an interview yesterday in Sydney. Under
the terms of an agreement struck March 25, senior Cypriot bank
bond holders will take losses and uninsured depositors will be
largely wiped out.  ‘Very Negative’  The deal is “long-term a very negative thing,” Redeker
said. Private-sector funding in indebted nations such as Spain
and  Italy  will probably stay elevated compared to  Germany ,
hampering the effectiveness of monetary policy across the region
as austerity measures detract from growth, he said.  Italy auctions as much as 4 billion euros ($5.1 billion) of
notes maturing in 2018, and up to 3 billion euros of 10-year
bonds today. The euro area’s fourth-biggest economy sold 2.8
billion euros of 2014 zero-coupon bonds this week at a yield of
1.746 percent, the highest since Dec. 27.  The country is still without a government, a month after
inconclusive elections. Democratic Party leader Pier Luigi Bersani holds talks with Beppe Grillo’s Five Star Movement today
that will be streamed live over the Internet.  The won dropped 0.3 percent to 1,111.70 per dollar,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  North Korea  put its
artillery forces on their highest combat level yesterday and
reiterated threats to attack the U.S. and  South Korea .  “North Korea’s bellicose rhetoric and the threats that
they engage in follow a pattern designed to raise tensions and
intimidate others,” White House press secretary  Jay Carney  said
yesterday in  Washington .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kevin Buckland in Tokyo at 
 kbuckland1@bloomberg.net ;
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  