-- ‘Fast & Furious 6’ Leads Record Memorial Day Weekend
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2013-05-28T21:27:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/-fast-furious-6-leads-record-memorial-day-weekend.html
“Fast & Furious 6” was the the top
film at theaters in  North America  during the U.S. Memorial Day
weekend, taking in $117 million, a record for  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s
 Universal Pictures .  The film, which also had the second-biggest opening this
year, topped  Warner Bros .’ comedy “The Hangover Part III,”
which had sales of $50.3 million,  Hollywood.com Box-Office  said
in a statement today.  The new installments of these popular franchises helped
boost sales to the  biggest  Memorial Day weekend, according to
Hollywood.com. For Universal, the success of “Fast & Furious
6” bodes well for its ranking among U.S. studios: It was second
with $495.2 million in domestic revenue through May 23,
according to Box Office Mojo. Walt Disney Co. was first with
$655.8 million.  “It’s very rare for a sixth franchise, which is more than
a decade old, to do so well,” said Gitesh Pandya, chief
executive officer of Boxofficeguru.com. “It started out as a
low-budget film, and over time has transformed itself into a
 James Bond  for the youth.”  He also credited its success to the fact it appealed to an
ethnically diverse audience as well as women, who made of up 49
percent of the audience.  “That’s very high for a macho-type movie,” he said.  International Crime  In “Fast & Furious 6,” federal agent Luke Hobbs, played
by  Dwayne Johnson , reunites with a team of car-heist experts to
battle an international crime organization. Regulars Vin Diesel
and Paul Walker return in their roles as Hobbs’s unlikely
allies.  The first five films in the series generated $1.59 billion
in worldwide ticket sales, according to  Box Office Mojo .  “The Hangover Part III” is billed as the last in the
raunchy comedies about the misadventures of three globe-trotting
buddies played by  Ed Helms , Zach Galifianakis and  Bradley Cooper . In the new film, one of the trio is kidnapped and held
hostage to force the other two to locate recurring bad guy Mr.
Chow, played by Ken Jeong.  “The bad reviews reinforced the fact that the film wasn’t
that funny,” Pandya said. Audiences were already disappointed
from the previous film and had already “checked out,” he said.  Weekend Sales  Weekend sales for “The Hangover Part III” excluded
revenue from its May 23 opening. The film’s domestic total
through May 27 was $62.1 million, according to Hollywood.com.  The weekend’s other new film,  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s animated
“Epic,” was fourth with sales of $42.8 million. The film tells
the story of a teenage girl who finds herself in a battle with
evil forces that seek to destroy the natural world.  The voices of  Beyonce Knowles , Amanda Seyfried,  Josh
Hutcherson  and  Colin Farrell  are featured.  “Star Trek Into Darkness,” the second film in J.J. Abrams’s reboot of the franchise, dropped to third place from
first with $47.2 million in sales for  Viacom Inc. (VIAB) ’s Paramount
Pictures. Made for about $190 million, the sequel has taken in
$156 million domestically since it opened on May 16, according
to Hollywood.com.  “Iron Man 3” from Disney’s Marvel fell to fifth place
from second with sales of $24.7 million for the four days.  The film has generated $1.15 billion  worldwide  since it
opened on May 3. The movie took in $174.1 million that weekend,
the biggest opening year to date.  The following table has U.S. movie box office figures
provided by studios to Hollywood.com Box-Office. The amounts are
based on gross ticket sales from May 24 to May 27.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael White in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  