-- Thailand Cuts Rate First Time This Year as Growth Slows: Economy
-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a   a n d   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2013-05-29T11:14:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/thai-rate-cut-odds-build-as-slowing-growth-aids-government-call.html
Thailand cut its benchmark interest
rate for the first time this year as slowing economic growth
bolstered government calls for easing. The baht fell.  The Bank of Thailand lowered its one-day bond  repurchase
rate  by a quarter of a percentage point to 2.5 percent, it said
in Bangkok today. The first reduction since October was a
unanimous decision, it said. The outcome was predicted by 15 of
24 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg News, with one expecting a
half-point reduction and eight forecasting no change.  The Southeast Asian nation’s growth slowed more than
estimated to 5.3 percent last quarter from 19 percent the
previous three months, increasing scope for officials to join a
global wave of monetary easing from  Australia  to South Korea.
Today’s move didn’t reduce government pressure on Governor
Prasarn Trairatvorakul, who had earlier resisted repeated calls
from Finance Minister Kittiratt Na-Ranong for rate cuts to tame
a currency that reached a 16-year high in April.  “The 25-basis-point reduction would mean government
pressure for a further cut would continue,” said Tohru Nishihama, an economist covering  emerging markets  at Dai-ichi
Life Research Institute Inc. in  Tokyo . “Without a drastic
improvement in the economic outlook, the central bank will have
more reason to cut further than to hold the rate.”  Kittiratt said today’s rate cut was “too little, too
slow,” though it was better than not doing it at all. He had
earlier called for a reduction of more than a quarter point to
weaken the baht and help exporters. Assistant Governor Paiboon Kittisrikangwan declined to comment today when asked whether the
central bank felt political pressure to lower the rate.  Renewed Pressure  The baht fell 0.7 percent to 30.22 per dollar as of 3:02
p.m. in Bangkok after touching 30.23 earlier, the weakest level
since Jan. 15. It has retreated more than 5 percent from a level
of 28.56 per dollar in April, the strongest since the 1997 Asian
financial crisis, and is Asia’s best-performing currency this
year after the Chinese  yuan , data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Central banks are under renewed pressure to cut rates to
support expansion. Pacific Investment Management Co. said it
sees Australia’s central bank reducing borrowing costs even
further as mining investment declines, and the International
Monetary Fund today lowered its growth forecasts for  China  to
about 7.75 percent this year and next.  Thai Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra’s administration
has raised minimum wages and handed incentives to rice farmers
and first-time car buyers to spur growth after the floods of
2011, and plans to spend 2 trillion baht ($67 billion) on high-speed rail links to major cities from Bangkok over the next
seven years. Fitch Ratings raised its assessment in March,
citing a resilient economy and a more stable political climate.  Affect Exports  The government last week lowered its 2013 economic
expansion forecast to as little as 4.2 percent and cut its
target for  export growth  to 7.6 percent from 11 percent.
 Thailand ’s Permanent Secretary for Commerce Vatchari Vimooktayon
said last week the baht’s strength has begun to affect exports.  The central bank has submitted measures on reducing baht
volatility to the Finance Ministry and is awaiting its approval,
Prasarn said May 21. The four measures include mandatory hedging,
barring foreigners from buying central bank bonds and setting a
minimum three- or six-month holding period for government debt,
the Bangkok Post reported May 8, citing an unidentified official.  A ministerial regulation to help control inflows and
outflows has been published in the Royal Gazette, and gives the
central bank more flexibility to manage flows, Kittiratt said
today. The monetary authority will be able to set conditions or
collect fees on funds flowing in or out of the country, he said.  Thailand doesn’t want to resort to measures to curb capital
inflows, Areepong Bhoocha-Oom, permanent secretary of the
finance ministry, said in an interview in Singapore today,
adding that the flows are “very dynamic.”  Last Resort  Elsewhere in Asia,  Japan ’s retail sales fell 0.1 percent in
April from a year earlier, while South Korea had a current
account  surplus  of $3.97 billion last month, reports showed.  In Europe,  Germany  reported  unemployment  rose more than
economists estimated in May, while retail sales in Spain fell
2.6 percent in April from a year earlier. In the U.S., mortgage
applications dropped for a third consecutive week.  The Thai central bank will intervene in the foreign-exchange market should the baht move “excessively,” while any
measures to curb inflows would be used as a “last resort” and
will be carefully considered to prevent unintended consequences,
Deputy Governor Pongpen Ruengvirayudh said yesterday.  The central bank will need to “weigh the merit of
providing growth support with financial stability concerns,”
Pongpen said, adding that the monetary authority will continue
to monitor credit growth closely for risks of overheating.  Total bank lending grew 13.2 percent in the three months
through March from a year earlier, driven by a 20 percent
increase in consumer loans, central bank data showed. Aeon Thana
Sinsap (Thailand) Pcl, a consumer finance provider, reported a
more than ten-fold increase in profit growth last quarter.  “There are risks to further easing when asset prices have
already run up significantly,” said Eugene Leow, an economist
at DBS Group Holdings Ltd. in  Singapore . “Sharply lower rates
would risk a further build up in asset price inflation that
could threaten financial stability when the cycle turns.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net ;
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  