-- Taiwan Scheduled to Receive LNG Cargo From Nigeria at Yongan
-- B y   C h o u   H u i   H o n g
-- 2013-05-28T07:04:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/taiwan-scheduled-to-receive-lng-cargo-from-nigeria-at-yongan.html
CPC Corp.,  Taiwan ’s state-run energy
company and importer of liquefied natural gas, is scheduled to
receive a spot cargo from  Nigeria  today at its Yongan terminal,
according to ship tracking data.  The LNG Ondo, with a capacity of 148,478 cubic meters, will
arrive at the port of Yongan in southern Taiwan, according to
ship transmissions captured by IHS Fairplay on Bloomberg. The
tanker sailed from Nigeria LNG Ltd.’s Bonny Island terminal,
where it loaded the supercooled gas and departed May 7.  CPC has no long-term LNG-purchase contracts with Nigeria
LNG, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The company has a
3 million metric-ton-a-year receiving facility at Taichung and a
7.4 million-ton terminal at Yongan, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  CPC said Feb. 21 it will seek to buy as many as three
cargoes of LNG for delivery in April and May to prepare for peak
summer power demand driven by air-conditioning needs.  Nigeria LNG, Africa’s largest exporter of the fuel,
declared force majeure on exports this month after  Royal Dutch
Shell Plc (RDSA)  discovered a pipeline leak and halted deliveries.  The announcement followed Shell’s shutdown of its Gbaran
Ubie and Soku gas facilities after the pipeline leak cut
supplies. Force majeure is a legal step that protects a company
from liability when it can’t fulfill a contract for reasons
beyond its control.  Prices for LNG spot cargoes delivery to Northeast Asia rose
last week as the disruption in Nigerian exports tightened
supply, according to Energy Intelligence Group.  Spot  cargoes  for delivery over the next four to eight weeks
were at $14.35 per million British thermal units, up from $14.30
per million Btu in the period ended May 13, the research company
said May 22 on the website of its World Gas Intelligence
publication.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chou Hui Hong in Singapore at 
 chong43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  