-- Taiwan Unveils Plan to Boost Growth as Ma Popularity Slumps
-- B y   C h i n m e i   S u n g
-- 2013-05-28T07:14:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/taiwan-unveils-measures-to-boost-growth-as-ma-popularity-slumps.html
Taiwan  will let insurers invest in
infrastructure projects and create a NT$1 billion ($33 million)
fund to channel money to companies as President Ma Ying-jeou
bids to boost growth and revive his flagging popularity.  The island also plans to revise capital-gains tax rules,
give cash incentives to trade in old cars for new ones, simplify
visa procedures for Chinese visitors and set aside NT$400
million to subsidize energy-saving home appliances including gas
stoves and heaters, Premier Jiang Yi-huah said in Taipei today.  Ma, whose disapproval rating of 70 percent this month is at
its highest since he took office in May 2008, joins policy
makers from  Australia  to  South Korea  in moving to aid their
economies as the global recovery falters. The island’s
statistics bureau last week cut its forecast for gross domestic
product  growth  this year to 2.4 percent from 3.59 percent.  “President Ma is under pressure to deliver some solutions
after economic growth slowed in the first quarter,” said Yang Tai-Shuenn, a political scientist at Chinese Culture University
in Taipei. “But I don’t think this would help lift his approval
rating or bring real benefits to the economy.”  The  Taiwan dollar  rose 0.2 percent to NT$29.914 as of 3 p.m.
local time. The benchmark Taiex  stock index  fell 0.2 percent at
the close today.  Proposed revisions to capital-gains tax rules include
removing the condition that investors will be taxed when the
stock index closes at 8,500 points or higher, and reducing the
 tax rate  on investors with NT$1 billion or more in trading
volume to 0.1 percent from 2.25 percent. The measures are
awaiting legislative approval, and may be passed in the current
session without further delays, Jiang said.  Economic Agenda  The economy grew 1.67 percent in the three months through
March from a year earlier, after expanding 3.97 percent in the
fourth quarter, a report showed last week, while  exports  fell
for a second time in four months in April.  Ma has simplified investment procedures, reshuffled the
government’s top posts, resumed trade talks with the U.S. and
sought closer ties with  China  to revive his economic agenda.
China and Taiwan have signed 18 agreements since Ma took office
in 2008, and will finalize a service-trade deal in the “near
future,” Wang Yu-chi, Minister of Taiwan’s Mainland Affairs
Council, said yesterday.  “We are introducing measures to bolster the economy as
recent economic data failed to meet expectations,” Cabinet
spokeswoman Cheng Li-wun said today.  Life insurers will be permitted to invest in public
infrastructure projects totaling NT$100 billion, said Financial
Supervisory Commission Chairman Chen Yuh-Chang. Also, visa rules
for visitors from China,  Hong Kong  and Macau will be eased, with
arrivals from the mainland, excluding tour groups, estimated to
rise to 540,000 this year from 190,000 last year.  “Given that the measures are coming just days after the
government’s GDP downgrade and given the still-sizeable
challenges ahead for Taiwan exporters, I think growth is the
overriding concern right now,” said Donna Kwok, a Hong Kong-based economist at HSBC Holdings Plc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chinmei Sung in Taipei at 
 csung4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  