-- Al Noor Plans to Raise $150 Million in IPO, Seeks LSE Listing
-- B y   S h e r i n e   E l   M a d a n y
-- 2013-05-28T13:17:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/al-noor-plans-to-raise-150-million-from-ipo-seeks-lse-listing.html
Al Noor Hospitals Group Plc plans to
raise $150 million from an initial public offering as the Abu
Dhabi-based health-care provider seeks to list on the  London
Stock Exchange. (LSE)   The company plans to use proceeds from the IPO to finance
acquisitions and repay debt, it said in an e-mailed statement
today. Deutsche Bank AG, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA)  are managing the deal, while Rothschild is serving
as financial adviser, Al Noor said.  “There are strong trends driving the demand for health
care in the U.A.E. and Abu Dhabi in particular,” Al Noor Chief
Executive Officer Kassem Alom said in the statement. “An IPO
will provide Al Noor with the capital to meet these demands.”  Shares of Abu Dhabi-based  NMC Health Plc (NMC) , which last year
raised 117 million pounds ($177 million) in an IPO to list on
the LSE, have surged 52 percent in 2013, outpacing a 33 percent
advance for  Abu Dhabi ’s benchmark stock index. Al Noor has the
biggest market share among private health-care services
providers in the  United Arab Emirates ’ capital for both
outpatients and inpatients, the company said. Profit last year
climbed 19 percent to $60.5 million, while revenue increased to
$324.4 million from $292.9 million a year earlier.  Solid Company  Al Noor “is a solid company with solid market share in Abu
Dhabi and is in a great and growing sector which most investors
want to have exposure to,” Fadi Al Said, senior  fund manager  at
ING Investment Management in Dubai, said by e-mail. “I hoped it
was a local listing as local markets need diversity.”  The U.A.E.’s stock markets are soaring amid an economic
recovery after the global credit crisis and political upheaval
in the  Middle East  curbed the demand for riskier assets. Abu
Dhabi’s  benchmark index  is the ninth-best performing index among
94 tracked by Bloomberg globally, while Dubai’s DFM General
Index is the third.  Al Noor said the IPO, which is expected to have a free
float of 30 percent to 45 percent, will include new stock as
well as a partial sale of shares held by some of its holders.
The IPO will be offered to institutional investors.  The company also agreed on the terms of an $81.7-million
working capital,  capital spending  and acquisition facility, it
said. It has identified a specialty center and a group of
medical facilities for potential acquisitions of about $50
million, according to today’s statement. Al Noor will use cash
in hand and $75 million of IPO proceeds to repay a loan of about
$118.1 million.  The company plans to meet with investors in about two weeks
and hasn’t set a date for the listing, Chief Strategy Officer
Sami Alom said during a conference call today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shaji Mathew in Dubai at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net ;
Sherine El Madany in Dubai at 
 selmadany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  