-- Google Faces EU Demand for Better Antitrust Settlement Offer
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2013-05-28T11:58:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/almunia-says-almost-certain-google-must-improve-settlement-offer.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  faces a demand for
improved proposals to settle an EU antitrust probe into the way
the company operates its search engine, the EU’s competition
chief said.  EU Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  told lawmakers
in Brussels today that rivals, users and companies in the same
market were given an  extra month  beyond the May 27 deadline to
submit feedback on Google’s planned changes.  Regulators will analyze the responses and is then “almost
100 percent” certain to tell Google “you should improve your
proposals,” Almunia said at the European Parliament in
Brussels. He didn’t specify the areas where Google would need to
make improvements.  The European Commission, the EU’s antitrust regulator, has
said Google is dominant in Web search and search advertising in
 Europe  and that the  Mountain View , California-based company may
harm competition. Almunia has sought a deal with Google to end
the antitrust case, while competitors have urged regulators to
force Google to change its practices.  The owner of the world’s largest search engine last month
 offered  to label Google-branded search services and show links
“to three rival specialized search services close to its own”
as part of a series of  commitments  to end the almost three-year-old probe, according to the  EU’s  antitrust authority.  Google Cooperation  “We believe our proposal to the European Commission
addresses the four concerns that were raised. We continue to
work with the commission to settle this case,” Al Verney, a
Brussels-based spokesman for the company, said by e-mail.  The initial remedies seek to address allegations that the
company promotes its own specialist search services, such as
Google News and Google Finance, copies rivals’ travel and
restaurant reviews, and has agreements with websites and
software developers that stifle competition in the advertising
industry. The EU probe also includes any search services Google
may develop in the future.  If Google sends proposals “that solve our concerns,” they
will be made legally binding, Almunia said. “I hope that we can
succeed to find a possible solution” by the end of the year, he
said.  Google’s foes are seeking a tougher outcome from the
EU probe after the U.S. closed a similar investigation without
taking any action.  ‘Clearly Unacceptable’  “The current set of proposed remedies is clearly
unacceptable and it is very unlikely that they can be improved
to the point at which they are effective in ending search
discrimination and restoring effective competition,” David
Wood, a lawyer for Brussels-based industry group ICOMP, which
includes  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and Foundem, a U.K. shopping comparison
website, said by e-mail. “If there are substantial changes, we
would expect there to be a new market test.”  The U.S.’s Federal Trade Commission in January concluded
that Google was motivated more by wanting to improve its  search
results  than by a desire to stifle competition.  Google is facing a new antitrust probe by the FTC into
whether the company is using its leadership in the online
display-advertising market to illegally curb competition, people
familiar with the matter said earlier this month.  Google’s Android operating system for mobile phones and
tablets as well as its Motorola Mobility unit are also under
Almunia’s spotlight.  “We have received a complaint regarding certain aspects of
the Android system,” he said today. “We are working on this,
we have not yet decided if we will open or not a formal
investigation.”  Motorola Mobility was sent an EU antitrust complaint
earlier this month for abusing its dominant position as part of
a probe into its control of key patents in gadgets such as Apple
Inc. iPhones and iPads.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Brussels at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jones Hayden at 
 jhayden1@bloomberg.net  