-- American Realty to Acquire CapLease in $2.2 Billion Deal
-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 2013-05-28T20:48:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/american-realty-capital-to-acquire-caplease-for-8-50-a-share.html
American Realty Capital Properties
Inc. (ARCP)  agreed to buy  CapLease Inc. (LSE)  in a deal valued at $2.2
billion, including debt, as it seeks to expand its holdings of
single-tenant commercial properties.  American Realty agreed to pay $8.50 a share for CapLease’s
common stock, or about $755 million, according to a  regulatory
filing  today from the New York-based real estate investment
trust. That’s 20 percent higher than the closing price of $7.10
on May 24. CapLease preferred shares will be converted into the
right to receive $25 a share in cash plus accrued dividends.  CapLease, based in New York, owns real estate across the
U.S. ranging from single-tenant office buildings to distribution
centers. Its largest tenants include the federal government, Aon
Corp. and Kroger Co., according to the filing. The  acquisition ,
which is expected to be completed in the third quarter, will add
more than 70 properties to American Realty’s portfolio, bringing
its total to about 800.  “This transaction will further institutionalize the notion
of durable, defensive dividends for our stockholders by allowing
them to become owners on a very favorable basis of the third-largest net-lease REIT in the  United States ,” Nicholas Schorsch, chief executive officer of American Realty, said in a
statement included in the filing.  Under net lease arrangements, a tenant pays most costs
associated with operating the property, in addition to rent,
minimizing the owner’s expenses.  Paying Debt  American Realty intends to assume about $580 million of
CapLease’s $1.2 billion in debt and and repay the rest,
according to the filing. The cost of paying the preferred shares
and the balance of the debt is equal to about $879 million, said
Anthony DeFazio, an American Realty spokesman with outside firm
DDCworks.  The combined company will have the capacity and balance
sheet to pursue even larger deals that are expected to come to
market, Schorsch said today on a conference call with investors.  “It’s a combination of granular acquisitions and core
portfolio acquisitions, as well as strategic opportunities, that
will drive this company for the coming decades,” he said.  American Realty expects to acquire $800 million more in
assets this year and $1 billion in 2014, Schorsch said.  CapLease rose 20 percent to $8.55 at the close of  New York 
trading, the biggest jump in more than four years. American
Realty gained 0.6 percent to $16.64.  The deal is expected to add about 11 cents a share to
American Realty’s adjusted funds from operations, and the REIT
plans to increase its  dividend  by 3 cents a share. Almost all of
CapLease’s senior management will join the new company.  ‘Greatest Value’  “We believe that the structure of this transaction creates
the greatest value for all stockholders over both the near and
long term,” Paul McDowell, chief executive officer of CapLease,
said in a statement.  The agreement allows CapLease to solicit alternative
proposals from other parties between now and July 7. Until then,
CapLease may terminate the deal at a fee of $15 million.  American Realty was spurned earlier this year in its bid to
buy Cole Credit Property Trust III, an owner of more than 900
mostly single-tenant properties, in a transaction valued at
about $6.7 billion. Cole Credit instead purchased its management
company, Cole Holdings Corp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in New York at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  