-- Manhattan’s Vance Forms Financial Unit to Work With U.S.
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2013-05-28T19:14:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/manhattan-s-vance-forms-financial-unit-to-work-with-irs.html
Manhattan District Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr. has formed a data-focused unit to help his office
focus on the financial aspects of criminal activity from street
crime to cybercrime, said David Szuchman, chief of the D.A.’s
Investigation Division.  Twenty analysts assigned to the Financial Intelligence Unit
will track financial crimes by reviewing data from banking,
regulatory,  law enforcement  and open-source data, Vance said
today in a statement. The unit will refer potential cases to the
Major Economic Crimes Bureau, under which it operates, and
coordinate with agencies including the U.S. Internal Revenue
Service,  Federal Bureau  of Investigation and Secret Service.  “If someone is violating the law in a criminal way we want
to follow the money and take proceeds of their criminal conduct
away from them,” Szuchman said in a phone interview. The unit
will be involved in gang violence and narcotics, as well as more
traditional financial crimes, Szuchman said.  It will be overseen by Assistant District Attorney Jordan
Arnold, and Polly Greenberg, chief of the Major Economic Crimes
Bureau.  “As financial information has made the leap from ledger
books to online sources, this new unit will be tasked with
making sure these sets of data are analyzed, which will enhance
our prosecutions of everything from classic white-collar crimes
to street crimes to cybercrime,” Vance said in the statement.  Older Unit  An economic-crimes unit formed in November 2010 has
reviewed thousands of filings that generated investigative
leads, Vance’s office said. The new unit will cooperate with
federal authorities or other district attorneys’ offices in
cases where jurisdictional issues prevent Vance’s office from
bringing a case, according to the statement.  “Working with the FIU provides additional opportunities
for local, state and federal agencies to join forces and combat
financial crime,” Richard Weber, the IRS’s chief of criminal
investigation, said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in  New York 
at   tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 