-- Harem Girls Dance, Princess Elopes as ‘Marouf’ Revived
-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 2013-05-28T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/harem-girls-dance-princess-elopes-as-marouf-revived.html
The Opera Comique in Paris is
reviving an old blockbuster that is a henpecked husband’s dream.  Henri Rabaud’s “Marouf, the Cobbler of Cairo” has a plot
taken from the “Arabian Nights” of a man who escapes his
shrewish wife.  The work premiered in May 1914, just three months before
the outbreak of World War I -- not the most propitious moment to
stage a new work. Still, “Marouf” was quickly taken up by opera
companies throughout the world.  In Dec. 1917, Pierre Monteux conducted the U.S. premiere at
the  Metropolitan Opera  where it was performed no less than 30
times.  Rabaud (1873-1949), a pupil of Jules Massenet, was one of
the movers and shakers of Paris’s musical life in the first half
of the 20th century. A frequent conductor at the Opera and its
director from 1914 to 1918, he succeeded Gabriel Faure as head
of the Conservatoire in 1920.  Marouf runs away from home to join a group of sailors. He
is shipwrecked and arrives at the court of a sultan where he
pretends to be a rich merchant. The delighted sultan, whose
coffers are empty, offers him the hand of his daughter
Saamcheddine.  Furious Father  When Marouf confesses the truth to his bride, she forgives
him, and they flee, pursued by the furious father. With the aid
of a magic ring and a genie all ends well.  Unlike his contemporary Maurice Ravel, Rabaud was no avant-gardist.  “Modernism is the enemy,” was the mantra he drummed into
his students at the Conservatoire.  The score is firmly anchored in late romanticism with a
generous helping of sinuous melodies a la “Scheherazade,”
Nikolai Rimsky-Korsakov’s symphonic suite which the Ballets
Russes had brought to Paris in 1910.  It’s also obvious that Rabaud had carefully listened to the
conversational style and fluid cantilena of “Pelleas and
Melisande.” Following Debussy’s example, he entrusted the title
role to a baritone, not the usual tenor.  The opera ends, like Verdi’s “Falstaff,” with a fugal
chorus. The result is what the Germans call
“Kapellmeistermusik,” conductor’s music -- eclectic, technically
brilliant, and hardly memorable.  For several years now, the Opera Comique has been digging
up forgotten works that were once staples of its repertoire.  Budget Constraints  In that laudable effort, it ran into two difficulties:
Singers who master the traditional French style are almost as
hard to find as true heldentenors. And its limited budget often
prevented it from hiring first-rate soloists and orchestras.  In both respects, “Marouf” is a pleasant surprise.  The young cast is uniformly good. Jean-Sebastien Bou in the
title role has a warm, full-bodied voice. Nicolas Courjal’s
meaty Sultan is even better.  Nathalie Manfrino is a charming Princess Saamcheddine,
Doris Lamprecht a suitably volcanic Fattoumah, Marouf’s first
wife.  Thankfully, Jerome Deschamps, the director, has resisted
the temptation to update the story to present-day Cairo where
poor workmen and empty coffers are not uncommon.  He wanted to recreate, he explains in the program, the
experience of a child discovering the colorful world of an
oriental fairy tale. In this, he has succeeded.  The sets (Olivia Fercioni) are semi-abstract and simple,
the acting rudimentary. The trump cards of the production are
Vanessa Sannino’s delightful costumes.  Alain Altinoglu conducts the Orchestre Philharmonique de
Radio France with verve and a fine feel for the French style.
The inevitable ballet of harem girls is danced by a Belgian
troupe intriguingly named “Peeping Tom.”  Rating: ***.  The production, which is supported by Allianz, is in
repertory through June 3.  Information:  http://www.opera-comique.com .  (Jorg von Uthmann is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Martin Gayford  on European 
exhibitions and  Jorg von Uthmann  on Paris culture.  To contact the writer of this review:
Jorg von Uthmann in Paris at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at  mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 