-- Argentina, Indonesia Hit With EU Tariff on Biodiesel Imports
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2013-05-28T19:24:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/argentina-indonesia-hit-with-european-union-levies-on-biodiesel.html
The European Union imposed tariffs on
biodiesel from  Argentina  and Indonesia, expanding renewable-energy trade barriers after EU import levies against the U.S.  The duties punish Argentinian and Indonesian exporters of
biodiesel, a type of biofuel made from vegetable oils and animal
fats for use in  diesel engines , for allegedly selling it in the
EU  below cost , a practice known as dumping.  Molinos Rio de la
Plata SA , Aceitera General Deheza SA and Pelita Agung
Agrindustri are among the companies targeted by the levies as
high as 104.92 euros ($135.46) a metric ton, or 10.6 percent.  EU producers including  Verbio AG (VBK)  in  Germany , Diester
Industrie SAS in  France  and Novaol Srl in  Italy  suffered
“material injury” as a result of dumped imports from Argentina
and  Indonesia , the European Commission, the 27-nation bloc’s
trade authority in Brussels, said today in the  Official Journal .
The levies, due to take effect tomorrow, are for six months and
may be prolonged for five years.  The duties to curb competition for European biodiesel
producers in their 12 billion-euro home market highlight
tensions accompanying EU efforts to increase the use of
biofuels, a renewable energy from crops such as rapeseed, corn,
wheat and sugar, amid a crackdown on fossil fuels blamed for
global warming. Ethanol is another kind of biofuel.  The EU decided in 2008 to require at least 10 percent of
land-transport energy in each member country to come from
renewable sources led by biofuels beginning in 2020. This is
part of a goal of more than doubling the total share of
renewable energy in the EU to an average 20 percent.  Anti-Dumping Duties  In 2009, the EU hit the U.S. with five-year anti-dumping
duties on biodiesel. The bloc also applied separate anti-subsidy
levies on American manufacturers such as  Archer-Daniels-Midland
Co. (ADM)  and Cargill Inc. The  import taxes  brought $1 billion a year
of trade to a halt.  Argentinian and Indonesian exporters increased their
combined share of the EU biodiesel market to 19.3 percent in the
12 months through June 2012 from 9.1 percent in 2009, the
commission said. Indonesian exporters gained ground at a faster
pace, raising their European market share to 8.5 percent from
1.4 percent over the period, according to the commission.  “Today’s decision is about ensuring a level playing field
for business and fighting for European jobs,”  John Clancy ,
spokesman for EU Trade Commissioner Karel De Gucht, said in an
e-mailed statement.  ‘Protectionist Decision’  Argentina called the tariffs an act of protectionism.  “The measure is due to the inability of European producers
to compete with more efficient producers,” Argentina’s Foreign
Ministry said in a  statement  on its website. It’s a
“protectionist decision that lacks technical justification.”  The duties are the preliminary outcome of an inquiry that
the commission opened last August after a dumping complaint by
the  European Biodiesel Board  on behalf of manufacturers that
account for more than 60 percent of EU production of biodiesel.  The provisional duties against Argentina range from 65.24
euros a ton on Molinos Rio de la Plata to 104.92 euros a ton on
exporters including Aceitera General Deheza. Depending on the
company, the levies against Indonesia range from 24.99 euros a
ton to 83.84 euros a ton. One Indonesian exporter, Ciliandra
Perkasa PT, has a zero duty rate.  EU governments, acting on a proposal from the commission,
must decide within six months whether to turn the provisional
anti-dumping duties into “definitive” levies lasting for five
years. Definitive-duty rates can differ from the level of
provisional measures.  The EU is also threatening to impose separate anti-subsidy
duties on biodiesel from Argentina and Indonesia. The commission
began a probe in  November  into possible trade-distorting
 government aid  for Argentinian and Indonesian exporters and is
due to decide by Aug. 10 on any provisional anti-subsidy levies.
EU governments would have four months from then to decide on any
definitive five-year measures to counter subsidies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  