-- Harvard College Dean Who Authorized E-Mail Probe to Step Down
-- B y   M i c h a e l   M c D o n a l d
-- 2013-05-28T16:18:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/harvard-college-dean-who-authorized-e-mail-probe-to-step-down.html
Evelynn Hammonds, the dean of  Harvard
College  who authorized a probe of e-mails in a search for leaks
after a student cheating scandal, is stepping down after five
years to return to teaching and research.  Hammonds, the first woman and black person to lead
Harvard’s undergraduate college, will go on sabbatical before
returning to head a new program for the study of race and gender
in science and medicine in the W.E.B. Du Bois Institute, Harvard
said today in a statement.  In April, Hammonds issued an apology after it was revealed
that the university failed to disclose the extent of a probe
into e-mails in search of a leak of confidential communication
related to a cheating scandal that implicated dozens of
students. Hammonds admitted that the probe was wider than
initially acknowledged, involving two reviews of one resident
dean’s e-mail that hadn’t been previously disclosed.  As dean of Harvard College, Hammonds oversees the academic
curriculum, residential houses and other undergraduate matters
at the Cambridge, Massachusetts-based school. She joined the
Faculty of Arts and Sciences  in 200 2 after teaching at the
 Massachusetts Institute of Technology .  In an e-mail to the Harvard community,  Michael Smith , dean
of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences, said he will appoint an
interim dean in the coming weeks and will form a committee in
the fall to help search for a permanent replacement.  The searches of subject lines in the resident dean’s
administrative account were approved by Smith and university
counsel, Hammonds said in April. While the lawyer was informed
of two additional searches of the dean’s individual account,
Smith was not, Hammonds had said. University President Drew Faust also wasn’t informed of the additional searches.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael McDonald  in Boston at 
 mmcdonald10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  