-- Ashland Pushed by Jana Seen Higher With Split : Real M&A
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y   a n d   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2013-05-28T14:03:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/ashland-pushed-by-jana-seen-higher-with-split-real-m-a.html
Ashland Inc. (ASH) , which soared to a
record this month after activist Jana Partners LLC disclosed a
stake in the company, stands to boost the lowest valuation in
the specialty-chemicals industry by breaking itself up.  Ashland’s unit that produces chemicals for water treatment
and its division that makes resins and adhesives are undermining
profitability and shedding them could unlock more value, said
Deutsche Bank AG. After  gaining  13 percent since last month on
optimism Jana’s involvement will speed up efforts to streamline
the business, the Covington, Kentucky-based company still trades
at a cheaper multiple to this year’s projected profit than any
of its U.S. peers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The valuation is being dragged down by these lower-growth, lower-margin, lower-quality businesses,”  David Begleiter , an analyst at Deutsche Bank in  New York , said in a
telephone interview. “What Jana wants is what the company wants
and what most investors want, which is a more focused portfolio.
Ashland would have gotten there on their own, but I think Jana
will act as an accelerant towards that longer-term goal.”  Ashland , a maker of products from Valvoline motor lubricant
to paint thickener, is worth at least 24 percent more broken up,
according to the average of four analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. Argus Research Co. said  BASF SE (BAS)  could be lured to the
$7 billion company’s water-treatment chemicals  division , while
Monness, Crespi, Hardt & Co. said that business and the
materials unit that makes resins may appeal to private-equity
firms. Ashland also could sell the Valvoline business to an oil
producer or consumer-products conglomerate such as  Procter &
Gamble Co ., First Analysis Securities Corp. said.  Deal History  “We have a history of acquiring and divesting businesses
to position the company for growth,”  Gary Rhodes , an Ashland
spokesman, wrote in an e-mail in response to questions regarding
whether the company would be open to selling assets. “Our
intent is to continue looking for opportunities to create
value.”  Ashland Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  James O’Brien 
has completed more than $13 billion of divestitures and
acquisitions since 2002, including the $3.2 billion purchase of
closely held International Specialty Products Inc. in 2011,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The company currently
has four main divisions: specialty ingredients, the Valvoline
unit, water technologies and performance materials -- which
makes synthetic rubber and composite resins for truck bed
liners.  Jana Stake  Jana disclosed April 11 it had acquired a 7.4 percent stake
and had spoken to management about ways to boost the
“undervalued” shares. While Jana hasn’t specified a course of
action, its stake is likely to call attention to weaker
 businesses  and may accelerate asset sales, according to James
Harlow, an analyst at Charlotte-based Novare Capital Management.  Ashland “has always been kind of a laggard on the multiple
side,” Harlow, whose firm oversees more than $600 million,
including Ashland shares, said in a phone interview. “There’s
some value to unlock, to streamline the company into a more of
the specialized chemicals, which is a higher-multiple, higher-margin business.”  Charles Penner, a spokesman for New York-based Jana,
declined to comment on whether the fund would seek a breakup of
Ashland or support asset sales.  Ashland shares have  gained  13 percent since Jana disclosed
its stake and on May 15 closed at a record $90.02. Still, the
company trades at a multiple of 13.5  times  this year’s projected
profit, less than any U.S. specialty-chemical maker valued at
more than $1 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The company’s  net income margin  in the last 12 months of 0.4
percent was the lowest in the group, the data show.  Today, Ashland shares gained 1.3 percent to $89.96 at 9:57
a.m. New York time.  Higher Value  Based on the sum of its parts, Ashland should be valued at
about $110 a share, 24 percent more than its closing  price  last
week of $88.77 and 40 percent more than before Jana disclosed
its stake, according to the average of four analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. The estimates range from $99.05 to $125 a
share.  Ashland’s water-technologies division, which accounted for
about 21 percent of the company’s $8.2 billion in  revenue  last
year, is the most likely to be sold, according to Bill Selesky,
a New York-based analyst at Argus.  “The water technologies division is the one that’s been
subpar,” Selesky said in a phone interview. Selling it “would
obviously be a positive catalyst for the company.”  BASF, the world’s biggest chemical maker, may be interested
in purchasing the unit to add to its water-treatment business,
Selesky said. Thomas Nonnast, a spokesman for Ludwigshafen,
Germany-based BASF, said the company doesn’t comment on
speculation.  Materials Unit  The performance-materials unit may also be on the block
because of its low margins, Deutsche Bank’s Begleiter said. That
business made up 19 percent of Ashland’s revenue last year.  Private-equity firms would be logical buyers of both the
performance-materials and water-technologies divisions given
their recent interest in the industry, according to  Chris Shaw ,
a New York-based analyst at Monness Crespi. Permira Advisers LLP
and Blackstone Group LP are among bidders who advanced into the
second round to buy  Rockwood Holdings Inc.’s (ROC)  German ceramics
unit, people familiar with the matter said last month.  “There is definitely money out there for these kinds of
assets,” Shaw said in a phone interview. He estimates that the
water-technologies business may fetch about $1.3 billion in a
sale based on similar transactions.  Companies such as industrial adhesives producer  H.B. Fuller
Co. (FUL)  and Henkel AG, the maker of Dial soap, may also be
interested in buying the performance-materials division, said
 Michael Harrison , a Chicago-based analyst at First Analysis.  Valvoline Sale  Another option for unlocking value at Ashland would be to
sell the  Valvoline  auto-lubricants division, which includes more
than 860 oil-change shops and made up 25 percent of sales last
year, Harrison said.  “The Valvoline piece clearly isn’t a true fit with the
specialty chemical core and I think could fetch a pretty nice
valuation,” he said in a phone interview. “It’s a very strong
brand.”  Major oil producers that lack a lubricants division could
seek to purchase Valvoline to better compete with  Exxon Mobil
Corp. (XOM) ’s Mobil engine oils and BP Plc’s Castrol products, while a
consumer-goods conglomerate such as P&G may also find the unit
attractive, Harrison said.  Representatives for Dusseldorf-based Henkel and Cincinnati-based P&G declined to comment. Maximillian Marcy, a spokesman
for  St. Paul , Minnesota-based H.B. Fuller, didn’t immediately
respond to a phone message and e-mail seeking comment.  Ashland also could spin off the Valvoline unit to
shareholders, Deutsche Bank’s Begleiter said.  Limited Gains?  Even if Jana urges Ashland to shed assets, it hasn’t always
been successful in getting companies to heed its advice. The
fund wanted Calgary-based Agrium Inc. to spin off its retail
agricultural outlets. Agrium rebuffed the proposal and investors
last month rejected Jana’s five board nominees.  While divesting assets would be “a valid strategic” step,
tax expenses and other costs may limit the benefits, according
to Dmitry Silversteyn, an Independence, Ohio-based analyst at
Longbow Research.  Shedding lower-margin divisions “will make the rest of the
company look better but not by as much as people think,”
Silversteyn said in a phone interview.  Ashland’s stock has also jumped so much on optimism that
Jana will push for a breakup that asset sales may not yield
significant further gains, said Sarah Hunt, an associate  fund
manager  and analyst at Purchase, New York-based Alpine Woods
Capital Investors LLC, which holds shares of Ashland.  Cash Hoards  Still, potential buyers may be more willing to pay up for
assets amid a record buildup of corporate cash and marketable
securities as Federal Reserve monetary policies keep  interest
rates  at near-record lows, Hunt said.  “Everyone is sitting on what is essentially free money and
they’re trying to figure out how to put it to work,” Hunt said
in a phone interview. “That gives you more room to sell assets
at a better price than you might be able to otherwise.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net ;
Brooke Sutherland in New York at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  