-- Hating the West and Reaping Its Privileges
-- B y   F o u a d   A j a m i
-- 2013-05-28T22:01:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/hating-the-west-and-reaping-its-privileges.html
“We swear by the almighty Allah we
will never stop fighting you until you leave us alone: We must
fight them as they fight us, an eye for an eye, a tooth for a
tooth.”  This was  Michael Adebolajo , age 28, born in the U.K. to a
devoted Christian family of Nigerian background.  His hands covered with the blood of a young off-duty
British soldier, he and a younger accomplice made no effort to
flee the scene of the crime. The  video  of the attack, on a busy
street in daylight, spoke of both derangement and audacity. “I
apologize that women had to witness this today but in our land
our women have to see the same,” Adebolajo said.  The reference to “our land” appeared to confound the first
wave of commentary last week. Muslims had no trouble recognizing
the reference. The man of British birth claimed the lands of
Islam as his own. Many decades earlier,  Sayyid Qutb , the
Egyptian thinker who was the Lenin of the political Islamists
(and executed in 1966 by his country’s military dictatorship),
resolved this tension for generations to come. We may carry
their nationalities, he wrote of infidel nations, but we belong
to our religion.  The coldbloodedness of the scene in London recalled
another, in the streets of Amsterdam on Nov. 2, 2004. Mohammed
Bouyeri, a 26-year-old Moroccan-Dutchman, had caught up with the
filmmaker Theo  van Gogh , who was riding his bicycle on a bleak
Amsterdam morning. Bouyeri shot Van Gogh in the stomach, then
cut his victim’s throat, as though slashing a tire, one witness
said. Van Gogh had pleaded for mercy: “Don’t do it, don’t do
it.”  No Mercy  There was no mercy on offer. Bouyeri wasn’t quite done. He
pulled out a smaller knife and pinned it to Van Gogh’s body with
a letter attached. Nor was there any remorse at his trial.
Bouyeri didn’t recognize the authority of the court. He lived by
the law of the Islamic  Shariah , he said.  Fittingly for this disordered world, Bouyeri wore Nike
sneakers under his black djellaba. He spoke no Arabic and very
little if any Berber. He knew little of Islam. His turning to
the faith was sudden. Until then, he had been “Mo,” cheerful and
clever at school. (Ian Buruma gave a superb account of this
crime in his 2006 book, “Murder in Amsterdam.”)  The assimilationist promise of the polyglot societies of
the West has come under intense challenge. A second generation
of disaffected Muslims has risen. The charges that MI5, the U.K.
domestic intelligence agency, had failed to foresee the danger
the assailants posed are predictable, but futile.  No liberal society could foresee the moment when true
believers were going to give in to their derangement. Islam had
put down roots in U.K. This was the backwash of empire. When the
British empire pulled back from its far-flung dominions, its
Muslim subjects followed. The growth in their ranks was
phenomenal: There were 23,000 British Muslims in 1951, 369,000
in 1971, 690,000 in 1981 and 1.6 million by 2001.  Mosques multiplied: 10 in 1945, 329 in 1989, 1,493 by 2003.
Radical preachers who quit the secular dictatorships of the Arab
world made their way to  London . There was freedom in London, and
there were state welfare subsidies.  The preacher who now claims to have inducted Adebolajo to
the ways of radical Islamism was a notorious bigot, Omar Bakri
Mohammed, a man of Syrian birth, who gathered around him a group
of bewildered, angry young men,  Al Muhajiroun  (the Emigrants).
London gave Bakri all he could aspire for: welfare relief,
followers, a soapbox. He hailed the Sept. 11 attacks, and
described the death pilots who struck America as the
“magnificent 19.” Lawyers sheltered him from deportation.  Cleric’s Fuel  His luck ran out in 2005 when the authorities blocked his
return to London, after a visit to Lebanon. He gave his sanction
and approval to the killing in Woolwich. He justified it on the
grounds that the victim was a man of the military and not a
civilian.  Britain’s moment of grief at the hands of radical
Islamists, its 9/11, came in 2005 with the 7/7 attacks. London’s
transport system was struck by four jihadists and 52 people were
killed. A parliamentary report later laid bare the world of
these younger men who bore British society a dreadful hatred.  Three of the bombers had been born in West Yorkshire. The
fourth was a Jamaican-born convert to Islam who was a “bright
child, successful academically, at school, and good at sport.”
The oldest of the four, age 30, with a 14-month-old child, was
considered a role model for younger people.  One of the four,  Shehzad Tanweer , 22, was particularly
privileged. He led, by all appearances, a “balanced life,” the
investigative report said. He owned a new Mercedes, given to him
by his father, and was fond of fashionable hairstyles and
designer clothes. Tanweer played cricket the night before the
bombing. On the day of the horrors, a surveillance camera filmed
him in a store: “He buys snacks, quibbles with the cashier over
his change, looks directly at the CCTV camera and leaves,”
according to the  report .  Naturally, al-Qaeda’s leaders claimed the bombers. Yet one
suspects they are the children of a more tangled trail, at once
so familiar and so unrecognizable.  (Fouad Ajami is a senior fellow at the Stanford
University’s Hoover Institution and author, most recently, of
“The Syrian Rebellion.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Fouad Ajami at  mjring@stanford.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at  kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 