-- Australian Office Yields Attract Investors: Real Estate
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2013-05-29T07:56:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/australian-office-yields-attract-investors-real-estate.html
Investors are scooping up Australian
office buildings at the fastest pace since the end of 2011,
attracted by yields that beat those in New York and London.  Mirvac Group (MGR)  agreed this month to buy seven properties for
A$584 million ($571 million), while  Dexus Property Group (DXS) , the
country’s biggest listed office landlord, paid almost A$1
billion since April for two developments. Investa Property
Group, which controls more than A$7 billion of office buildings
across the country, has raised money from Swedish and Australian
pensions for additional purchases.  As much as A$7 of capital is chasing every A$1 of prime-office assets in Australia, up from A$2 in 2011 and the
strongest demand since 2007, according to broker Jones Lang
LaSalle Inc. The surge in investor interest is part of a global
search for assets that offer higher returns as central banks
around the world push interest rates to record lows.  “The rental market is soft in the Australian context, but
 Australia  is probably looking strong compared with the U.S. and
Europe,” Rob Sewell, Sydney-based head of office investments at
Jones Lang LaSalle, said in a telephone interview. For offshore
investors, “lower returns in Australia will still be a better
return than their home markets.”  Higher yields on offices in Australia reflect muted price
growth since Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed in 2008,
ushering in recessions in the U.S. and Europe. Sydney office
values have risen less than 3 percent each year since 2010,
after declining 6.7 percent in 2008 and 12 percent in 2009. They
rose more than 13 percent in 2006 and 2007, according to
researcher Investment Property Databank Ltd.  Yield Comparisons  About A$2.1 billion of offices valued at more than A$5
million changed hands in the first three months of 2013, 31
percent higher than a year ago and the most since the last
quarter of 2011, property broker CBRE Group Inc. said.  Prime offices in Australia’s major cities offered yields as
high as 7.9 percent in the first quarter, according to Jones
Lang LaSalle. That compares with 5.25 percent for London City
prime offices above 40 million pounds ($60 million), and between
4 percent and 5 percent for prime offices in central business
districts in New York and San Francisco, the broker said.  Premium offices in Sydney were valued at an average
A$16,235 per square meter (10.76 square feet) in the first
quarter, down from A$18,095 five years earlier, data from broker
 Savills Plc (SVS)  show.  REITs Recovery  One force behind the increase in transactions are
 Australian real estate investment trusts , which raise money from
investors to buy properties. They have re-emerged as acquirers
after selling properties for liquidity during the credit squeeze
that followed Lehman’s collapse. The biggest domestic REIT
 stocks  rose 25 percent in the past 12 months and traded at an
average 3.6 percent premium to net tangible assets as of May 23,
turning around from a discount in April, Morgan Stanley data
showed.  Australian REITs have access to as much as A$6 billion of
equity and debt financing, assuming an increase in average debt
to 32 percent of equity from the current 26 percent, CBRE said.
They made A$650 million of office purchases in the first
quarter, almost a third of all transactions, the broker said.  “With a strong focus on capital management and solid
levels of inflows into the listed sector, A-REITs are expected
to be more aggressive buyers this year,” Stephen McNabb, head
of Australian research at CBRE, wrote in a March report. A
still-wide yield differential to global markets means “foreign
investors are likely to continue to support the Australian
commercial property sector, although they may face more
competition from domestic investors.”  Better Returns  Mirvac, the country’s third-biggest diversified property
trust, agreed this month to buy five offices in Sydney, one in
 Melbourne  and the Allendale Square in Perth from GE Capital’s
local property unit at an initial yield of 7.8 percent.  Dexus and its Wholesale Property Fund said they would buy a
Perth office site with three buildings for A$434.8 million this
month, after paying A$543.9 million in April for a Brisbane
property. The capitalization rate -- a measure of investment
yield that contracts as prices rise -- was 8 percent on the
Perth acquisition and 7.25 percent on the Brisbane purchase,
according to Dexus.  Investors are lining up to buy offices even as rents edge
lower and vacancy rates rise. Companies are cutting costs and
consolidating work space amid modest economic activity. The
Reserve Bank of Australia has reduced  borrowing costs  by 2
percentage points over the past 19 months to a record low 2.75
percent, joining global counterparts in embracing cheap credit
for an economy where inflation is contained, mining spending is
predicted to crest and credit growth is subdued.  Cap Rates  The central bank could cut rates even further as a slowdown
in mining investment, which made up 60 percent of the nation’s
gross domestic product growth last year, threatens to leave a
significant economic hole, Pacific Investment Management Co.’s
Adam Bowe and Robert Mead wrote in an article on the fund
manager’s website today.  Business confidence declined 4 points to -2 in April from
the previous month, a private gauge showed.  Dexus is buying because it expects “compression in
capitalization rates” based on investor demand, Sydney-based
Chief Executive Officer Darren Steinberg said in a telephone
interview. “This is the first time in my career that I’ve seen
such strong demand when fundamentals are weak on average.”  Sydney offices had an average capitalization rate of 8.8
percent as of April 30, compared with 5.7 percent in  London , 5.2
percent in  Manhattan  and 3 percent on Hong Kong island,
according to Real Capital Analytics.  The highest-quality office buildings could see
capitalization rates compress by as much as 70 basis points over
the next two years, CLSA Asia Pacific Markets forecast last
month.  Falling Rents  Sydney-center office rents will fall 4.5 percent by the end
of 2013 from two years earlier while Melbourne rents will drop
almost 10 percent and Perth 6.4 percent, according to broker
Colliers International.  The average vacancy rate rose to 9.5 percent in Sydney’s
city center in the three months to March 31 from 8.4 percent in
the previous quarter, according to Jones Lang LaSalle. That
compares with a  vacancy rate  of 11.8 percent in downtown New
York in the first quarter and 15.6 percent in  Chicago .  Prospective tenants, particularly in the financial hubs of
Sydney and Melbourne, remain wary given the economic outlook,
London-based broker Knight Frank LLP said.  “We are increasingly cautious for the outlook for demand,
vacancies, incentives and therefore rental growth,”  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  analyst Lou Pirenc, who forecasts a recovery in 2014
unless economic conditions worsen, said in a January report.  Overseas Investors  Canada Pension Plan Investment Board and local pension
funds Telstra Super and First State Super pumped almost A$1.5
billion into Lend Lease Group’s Barangaroo redevelopment in
Sydney in July.  Australia accounted for 45 percent of all direct real
estate investment into the Asia-Pacific region in the past two
years, excluding funds from within the area, Jones Lang LaSalle
said in a March 26 report. Foreign buyers are attracted by one
of the few nations with a AAA-credit rating, Pete Carstairs,
general manager for research at Investa, wrote in a March
report.  The foreign-investor base of Morgan Stanley-owned Investa’s
unlisted fund has grown from 5 percent “several years ago” to
a quarter now, Carstairs said in the report. The fund received
A$87 million from Swedish pension fund Forsta AP-Fonden and A$50
million from Australian aviation industry pension fund AvSuper
in February.  Top End  Most overseas investors prefer top end, often newly built,
offices in central locations, with long leases, Carstairs said.
Still, as competition for these assets builds, they’re starting
to look at “non-core opportunities due to the tightly held
nature of the core market,” he said.  Hines Global REIT Inc., a Houston-based closely held
property trust, in March agreed to acquire an office building in
Chatswood, a north Sydney suburb, for $91.2 million. It also
paid $128 million this month to buy an office building in
Fortitude Valley, 2 kilometers (1.2 miles) northeast of central
Brisbane, according to an e-mailed release.  “Investors, both domestic and offshore, will start to
invest in secondary markets where there’s been limited new space
and not much development activity,” said John Marasco,
Melbourne-based managing director for investment sales and
capital markets at Colliers.  Property Bank Australia Corp.  favors Sydney’s northern
suburbs to the city center, said Gus MacKellar, director at the
Perth-based property manager that undertakes “counter-cyclical” below-A$60 million investments.  “We’re buying at inflated cap rates” of around 9.5
percent, MacKellar said. “We’ll see those markets having
reasonable rental upside over the next three to five years, and
significant yield compression as they return to favor.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  