-- Australia Parties to Amend Donor Laws With New Threshold
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2013-05-28T07:40:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/australia-parties-to-change-campaign-funding-laws-swan-says.html
Australia ’s Labor government struck a
deal with the opposition coalition to amend political party
funding laws, agreeing to a new threshold for disclosure of
donations to move long-stalled legislation through parliament.  “The government has reached agreement with the Liberal
Party to put forward a compromise bill,” Treasurer Wayne Swan
told reporters in Canberra today.  Prime Minister Julia Gillard’s minority government will
reduce the requirement for disclosure of political donations
from A$12,100 ($11,678) to A$5,000, not as low as its earlier
proposal of A$1,000, Attorney-General Mark Dreyfus said.  Labor, trailing the Tony Abbott-led Liberal-National
coalition in polls before the Sept. 14 election, introduced
legislation in 2010 in a bid to improve the transparency of
campaign funding. Those laws, which sought a A$1,000 threshold
while preserving rules where donations could be disclosed months
after an election result, have languished in the Senate.  While the threshold will be lowered “it’s disappointing
it’s not going to be reduced much more significantly,” said
George Williams, a professor of law at the University of New
South Wales. “The proposed law has been idling for a while and
has now re-emerged in a much diluted form.”  Biannual Disclosures  Other changes in the revised laws to be introduced to
parliament tomorrow include biannual disclosures on donations,
from yearly now, while political parties won’t be able to accept
anonymous donations of A$1,000 or above, Dreyfus told reporters
in Canberra.  Donations of foreign property to political parties will be
banned, while public funding of parties and independents elected
to parliament will be allocated at a rate of 33 cents per vote
per year, he said.  “If you’re going to have disclosure regimes you have to
have an element of public funding as well,” Swan said. “This
bill has been in discussion between the parties for some time.
It needs to be concluded.”   Shadow Attorney-General George Brandis wasn’t immediately
available to comment, spokesman Travis Bell said by phone.  Under former Prime Minister John Howard’s coalition
government the rules were amended in December 2005 to lift the
disclosure threshold to more than A$10,000, rising annually to
reflect inflation, according to the  Australian Electoral
Commission . The current level of A$12,100 expires June 30.  Collecting Donations  With the major Labor and Liberal parties having separate
branches at federal, state and territory level they can now
collect donations of more than A$100,000 from an entity without
it being declared, according to Joo-Cheong Tham, an associate
professor at the University of  Melbourne ’s law facility.  “Lack of transparency in Australia’s system of political
donations is a concern and increasingly so,” Tham, the author
of books including “Money and Politics: The Democracy We Can’t
Afford,” said in e-mailed comments today.  The Australian Electoral Commission has only been required
to release data on donations once a year, sometimes months after
elections have been held, Tham added.  Labor’s various branches received reported donations of
about A$3.6 million in the year to June 30, according to data
released by the commission Feb. 1. That compares with about
A$7.3 million in reported donations for the coalition.  Big Donors  Major parties “should do more to provide timely
information on donations,” said Williams, who edited and
contributed to the book ‘Realizing Democracy: Electoral Law in
Australia.’ “When we do find out who has donated to the parties
this year, it will be months after the election. There’s nothing
wrong with raising campaign finances but the system needs to be
transparent, and it’s not.”  Among the biggest reported donors in the year to June 30
for Labor were the Canberra Labor Club, which runs four food and
entertainment venues in the capital, with more than A$1 million;
Labor-affiliated John Curtin House with about A$800,000; and
various contributions from unions. The coalition received A$2.3
million from a foundation set up for fundraising; the Australian
Hotels Association donated A$250,000; and  Ramsay Health Care
Ltd. (RHC)  contributed A$100,000.  “Many advocates for reform argue that this need for funds
for campaigning and administration places candidates and parties
in a vulnerable position, leaving them open to the perception
that their decisions could be influenced by donors who make
significant financial contributions,” a December 2011
parliamentary report said.  Labor trailed the opposition by 12 percentage points on a
two-party preferred basis, designed to gauge which party will
probably win enough seats to form a government under Australia’s
preferential voting system, according to a Newspoll published in
the Australian newspaper May 20.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Scott in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  