-- Lautenschlaeger Says EU Needs Interim Bank Resolution Network
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   S t u a r t   M e t z l e r
-- 2013-05-28T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/lautenschlaeger-says-eu-needs-interim-bank-resolution-network.html
Bundesbank Vice President Sabine Lautenschlaeger said the European Union’s bank-resolution regime
may take the form of a network of national authorities before
changes in the region’s governing treaty can be made.  “If we do not get a fast-track change to the EU primary
law, then we need a network of national restructuring and
resolution authorities with a clear agreement, with no room for
interpretation about burden-sharing,” Lautenschlaeger said in
an interview with Bloomberg Television in  Frankfurt  yesterday.
“It’s worthwhile to create this very clear legal basis by
changing EU primary law.”  Her comments signal a compromise path between German
reluctance to give up national resolution powers and the
 European Central Bank , which is arguing for a central capacity
to wind down or restructure failing banks. Finance Minister
 Wolfgang Schaeuble  said on May 6 that there can’t be a central
resolution authority without European-level fiscal control.  “It’s much easier to resolve a European-active bank in a
European resolution mechanism, where you can have a discussion
in advance about the burden sharing connected to a resolution
regime,” Lautenschlaeger said.  “It’s a bit weird to supervise banks on a European level,
but, if something goes wrong and there is a failure of a bank,
then to give a bank back to the national restructuring unit to
get it resolved on a national basis,” she said.  Banking Union  Before Europe can erect a banking union that will help to
separate the fate of national governments and the financial
sector, the ECB will undertake an “asset quality review,” from
the third quarter of 2013, ECB Executive Board member Yves Mersch said on May 17.  That will help to assess risk management across the 17-member euro area, as well as merge “different experiences and
knowledge into a single supervisory mechanism,” Lautenschlaeger
said.  At the same time, efforts to solidify the banking sector on
the level of individual institutions are showing progress. “In
 Europe , we have almost finalized the legal package and I do
expect that the European banks will have to comply with Basel
III from the start of 2014,” Lautenschlaeger said.  In the U.S., proposals that would require subsidiaries of
foreign banks to hold more capital shows a worrying trend to
national retrenchment in regulation, she said.  “I am a bit concerned about this aspect, because the
tendency to re-nationalize regulation and supervisor approaches
does not support global financial stability,” Lautenschlaeger
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Stuart Metzler in Frankfurt at 
 smetzler4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  