-- Lautenschlaeger Says EU Resolution Body Requires Treaty Changes
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2013-05-28T08:39:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/lautenschlaeger-says-eu-resolution-body-requires-treaty-changes.html
Bundesbank Vice President Sabine Lautenschlaeger said changes to the European Union’s governing
law are needed to allow the sound establishment of a mechanism
to wind down failing banks.  “In principle I am for the establishment of a European
resolution authority,” Lautenschlaeger said in a speech in
Frankfurt today. “However this must stand on a firm foundation,
and for that a change to the primary law is necessary.”  European policy makers are attempting to disconnect the
fate of individual banks from the countries they’re located in.
While the European Central Bank has advocated a single mechanism
and centralized funds to resolve banks as soon as next year,
 Germany ’s finance minister Wolfgang Schaeuble has proposed a
network of national systems until the law can be changed.  “Even a ‘European-steered’ resolution that shares the
burden, with clear rules agreed in advance, would help us to
minimize the problem of ‘too-big-to-fail’ or ‘too-complex-to-fail,’” Lautenschlaeger said.  Lautenschlaeger also said that rules being considered  by
the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision to limit banks’
indebtedness risk being interpreted too simplistically.  Leverage Ratio  “The leverage ratio is useful as an instrument amongst
many in a well-stocked toolbox, but it has weaknesses,” the
central banker said, adding that it may be difficult to compare
the ratio between banks and across borders.  Leverage ratios force lenders to hold capital equivalent to
a percentage of the value of their assets. Settling the details
of the leverage ratio is a priority for the Basel committee
because of a Jan. 1, 2015, deadline for large banks to begin
disclosing how well they measure up to the rule.  “Either I have a simply conceived leverage ratio -- but
then it isn’t comparable, and not worth much,” she said. “Or,
I have a comparable leverage ratio, but I have to expend a bit
of effort to be able to produce ‘clean’ data.”  Lautenschlaeger said that a uniform application of the
Basel III set of banking regulations committed to by Group of 20
nations is decisive for its success.  “Only this way can we learn the lessons of the crisis,”
she said. “Variations in rules set incentives for regulation
and supervisory arbitrage, and these are danger factors that --
on account of the deep interconnectedness of the financial
markets -- shouldn’t be underestimated.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in  Frankfurt  at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  