-- Max Clifford Pleads Not Guilty to U.K. Sex-Assault Charges
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2013-05-28T10:08:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/max-clifford-pleads-not-guilty-to-u-k-sex-assault-charges.html
Max Clifford , a celebrity publicist
who has represented  O.J. Simpson ,  David Beckham  and  Simon
Cowell , pleaded not guilty to 11 sexual offense charges
involving girls as young as 15 over almost two decades.  Clifford, 70, was ordered to appear at a higher criminal
court June 12 by Judge Howard Riddle in London today. The claims
involve seven teenagers allegedly abused from 1966 to 1985, when
the oldest alleged victim was 19, British prosecutors said.  Clifford was arrested in December by officers probing the
abuse of hundreds of children by people in the entertainment
industry. The investigations began with accusations against the
late British Broadcasting Corp. television star Jimmy Savile,
whose alleged actions triggered a scandal at the world’s biggest
broadcaster.  “This is a nightmare for myself and my family and has been
since December when I was arrested in a very public way,”
Clifford told reporters after the hearing. “What I have got to
do now is to prove that these allegations are totally without
foundation, which I know they are.”  Police have made about a dozen arrests in what’s being
called Operation Yewtree, a probe targeting people who may have
engaged in abuse with Savile or acted on their own during the
same period. Other people arrested include singer Gary Glitter
and former  BBC  disc jockey Dave Lee Travis.  Savile Death  Savile, who died in 2011, committed more than 200 criminal
sexual-abuse offenses at the BBC, in schools and in more than a
dozen hospitals, mental homes and a hospice, London police said
in a final report about the former entertainer in January.  Savile wasn’t prosecuted while he was alive, even after
four women made reports to two U.K. police departments in 2007
and 2008, in which they described abuse when they were children.
Authorities across the U.K. have been ramping up investigations
into allegations of historical sex-abuse claims following
alleged failures related to Savile.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in  London  at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  