-- Best OPEC Discipline Since 2011 No Proof for $100 Oil
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2013-05-29T16:31:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/best-opec-discipline-since-2011-no-proof-for-100-oil.html
OPEC’s best adherence to its
production ceiling in 18 months is failing to buoy the outlook
for crude  oil prices , raising pressure on the group to pare
supplies amid burgeoning U.S. output.  While all but one of 20 analysts in a Bloomberg survey
predict the 12-member organization will maintain its target of
30 million barrels a day at its May 31 meeting in Vienna, most
say OPEC needs to conform better with the limit to keep supply
from overwhelming demand. Societe Generale SA says the necessary
reduction could be “substantial.” The  Centre for Global Energy
Studies  says prices may tumble without output curbs.  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, which
accounts for 40 percent of global oil supply, hasn’t stuck so
closely to its output ceiling since the current level was set in
December 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That
hasn’t stopped Brent, against which more than half the world’s
crude is priced, losing 7.3 percent this year, and falling as
low as $96.75 a barrel on April 18, amid a combination of
slowing global demand and surging U.S. shale supplies.  “They’re going to have to keep cutting,” Seth Kleinman,
head of energy strategy at Citigroup Inc. in  London , said by
phone yesterday. “This market’s looking heavy in terms of
supply, and it’s getting heavier, and there will come a stage
when OPEC needs to address that weight problem. Supply growth
will be robust and demand will consistently disappoint.”  Output Rebound  Curbs by  Saudi Arabia  pared OPEC output to 30.6 million
barrels a day in January, the closest to the group’s formal 30-million limit since its introduction in December 2011, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Output has since rebounded, reaching
30.9 million a day last month, a level about 900,000 a day more
than both OPEC’s target and the amount the  International Energy
Agency  estimates will be needed in the second half.  Bank of America Corp. cut its 2014  Brent crude  price
estimate to $105 a barrel from $112, citing the combination of
lower demand and higher supply. There is a growing possibility
that Brent will move into a range of $90-$100 after next year as
“we now see less of a structural oil market deficit on softer
emerging market activity and the rise in non-conventional oil
supplies,” the bank said in a report dated yesterday.  Brent crude traded $1.28 lower at $102.95 a barrel on the
ICE Futures Europe exchange as of 5:25 p.m. London time today,
after averaging $108.84 this year.  Creeping Up  “OPEC output has been creeping up, and the balances show
that they should be producing significantly less,”  Mike Wittner , head of oil-market research for the Americas at Societe
Generale in  New York , said by phone on May 21. “They ought to
be producing closer to 30 million. This is the first year where
OPEC, and the Saudis in particular, have to cut to offset the
U.S. growth.”  U.S. crude output  is near its highest in two decades as
horizontal drilling and hydraulic fracturing, or fracking,
unlock supplies from shale deposits in Texas and North Dakota.
The nation pumped 7.4 million barrels a day in the week to May
3, the most since 1992, according to the Energy Department.  Ali al-Naimi , oil minister for Saudi Arabia, the world’s
biggest crude exporter, said that current conditions are “the
best environment for the market” and that “demand is great,”
when he arrived in Vienna yesterday. The kingdom believes that
all “new supplies are welcome,” he said in Istanbul on May 10.  Healthy Crude  “Will OPEC make these cuts? It depends on how healthy
crude demand is,” said  Societe Generale ’s Wittner. “If they’re
happy where prices are, and they should be, maybe they just hold
it steady and don’t see a need to cut at this point.”  Group production will probably rise in the third quarter
with the summer peak in demand for driving fuels in the northern
hemisphere, and for power to generate air conditioning units in
the Middle East, Wittner said. Since some of the extra Saudi
output is consumed domestically rather than exported, it won’t
exacerbate the global surplus or weaken prices, he said.  The one analyst in the Bloomberg survey who predicted that
OPEC’s 30 million-barrel quota would be reduced didn’t specify
by how much.  While members are unlikely at this meeting to set
production allocations for individual countries, which haven’t
been disclosed since 2008, the need to decide on these will
become more pressing as  Iraq  seeks to more than double its
capacity puts it in competition with Saudi Arabia, Jamie Webster, an analyst in Singapore at PFC Energy, said by phone
May 22.  Iraq, aiming to reach 9 million barrels a day from about 3
million currently, would consider quitting OPEC if fellow
members refuse to accommodate its higher output, Iraqi state
minister Ali al-Dabbagh said in  Abu Dhabi  on April 23.  Cold War  “You could describe it as essentially a  cold war  right
now, and it’s going to hot up within the next couple of years,”
Webster said. “The antagonists are still circling one another
because no-one has hit the bell yet to say, okay, it’s time to
figure out who’s going to cut and who can keep producing.”  Ministers may discuss the appointment of a successor for
Secretary-General Abdalla El-Badri, whose tenure expires at the
end of this year, said Webster. El-Badri, having completed two
three-year terms, was given a one-year extension in December
when members failed to agree on replacement candidates from
 Iran , Iraq and Saudi Arabia.  The three nominees to replace el-Badri are Saudi Arabia’s
former OPEC Governor Majid al-Moneef, Iran’s former Oil Minister
Gholamhossein Nozari, and Iraq’s former Oil Minister  Thamir Ghadhban .  OPEC’s members are  Algeria ,  Angola ,  Ecuador , Iran, Iraq,
 Kuwait , Libya,  Nigeria ,  Qatar , Saudi Arabia, the United Arab
Emirates and Venezuela. Kuwait’s oil minister resigned and his
brief will be administered by the country’s finance minister for
now, the state-run KUNA news agency reported May 27.  Successively Weaker  While Brent is forecast to rebound to average about $109 a
barrel in the third and fourth quarters, according to the median
of 42 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg, prices remain
successively weaker for monthly contracts for the rest of the
year. December-delivery traded at $101.28 a barrel, or $1.67
less than the front-month contract. The median prediction for
Brent in 2016 is $101.50 a barrel.  OPEC is likely to keep its collective production target
unchanged this week, two delegates from different OPEC nations
said yesterday and May 24. Both asked not to be identified
because the decision isn’t final.  “Eternal vigilance is the price of keeping oil at $100,”
said  Leo Drollas , chief economist at the CGES, a consultant in
London founded by former Saudi Arabian Oil Minister Sheikh Ahmed Zaki Yamani. “OPEC should get back to 30 million barrels a day
by the fourth quarter, otherwise the price will start sagging
and eventually fall heavily.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Grant Smith in Vienna at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  