-- Biggest Platinum Companies Hurt as Union Usurps Old Guard
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2013-05-29T15:31:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/biggest-platinum-companies-hurt-as-union-usurps-old-guard.html
Thousands of  Lonmin Plc (LMI)  workers sat
in the sun and listened to Joseph Mathunjwa, leader of the most
popular union in South Africa’s platinum-mining belt, tell them
he wasn’t afraid to die in the fight for their rights.  The May 15 speech at the Wonderkop stadium near Rustenburg,
116 kilometers (72 miles) northwest of Johannesburg, comes nine
months after police killed 34 people nearby when they dispersed
protesters a week into a violent strike at Lonmin’s Marikana
mine. Since then, Mathunjwa’s Association of Mineworkers and
Construction Union has supplanted the  National Union of
Mineworkers  as the dominant force at mines owned by the world’s
biggest platinum producers.  “Even if you kill me or assassinate me there are those who
will follow and take the baton,” the 48-year-old union leader
told cheering workers in Xhosa, the main language of the Eastern
Cape province, from where Lonmin draws migrant labor. “My
spirit will live. My spirit will go ahead to liberate the
working class,” he told the workers who gathered days after an
AMCU leader was shot dead in a tavern.  While the AMCU’s message of higher wages and exploitation
by company executives mirrors that of the NUM, dissatisfaction
with the 31-year-old union has grown with its ties to the ruling
 African National Congress  and accusations that its leaders are
too close to management.  Politicians, Businessmen  Kgalema Motlanthe, South Africa’s deputy president, served
as NUM general secretary, while  Gwede Mantashe , the secretary
general of the ANC, also held the union post. James Motlatsi,
the first NUM president, was AngloGold Ashanti Ltd.’s deputy
chairman while  Cyril Ramaphosa , who co-founded the NUM in 1982
with Motlatsi and helped lead a 1987 strike involving 300,000
workers, is now the deputy president of the ANC and the second-richest black South African, according to Johannesburg’s Sunday
Times. The investment company he controls also owns a stake in
Lonmin’s mines.  “We’re not too close to the companies,”  Lesiba Seshoka ,
an NUM spokesman, said yesterday. “We operate the same way we
always have.”  Union leaders “have to some extent learned to enjoy the
benefits of a more comfortable life,” said Andrew Levy, who
heads his own labor research company in Johannesburg. “They’ve
just lost touch with the guys on the factory floor or down on
the coal face.”  Plunging Rand  The decline of what was  South Africa ’s biggest labor union
has been accompanied by violent inter-union rivalry that last
year shut platinum, chrome and gold mines and cost more than 10
billion rand ($1 billion) in output, shaving half a percentage
point off economic growth, according to the National Treasury.
It’s disrupting how wage talks are conducted in South Africa’s
biggest export industry, may cost thousands of jobs and is
threatening the ANC, which has an alliance with the Congress of
South African Trade Unions, of which the NUM is a member.  The rand fell as much as 0.7 percent to 9.8574 per dollar,
the weakest level since March 18, 2009, and was at 9.7907 at
5:16 p.m. in Johannesburg. Gold and platinum companies are the
four worst-performing shares on an index of  the 42 biggest
stocks  traded in Johannesburg this year.  Mathunjwa, whose speech was peppered with references to
Christianity and its role in the workers’ struggle, has taken
the opportunity to expand his union. At the stadium, AMCU
officials wouldn’t speak to reporters before his address.  Pay Increases  Mathunjwa is a one-time member of the NUM who left in 1998
after a quarrel with its leadership to form the AMCU at coal
mines. In less than a year, the union has more than doubled its
membership to 120,000, he said. The NUM lost about 38,000
members in the year through February to 285,000.  While the AMCU, which is trying to have the NUM
deregistered as a union at Lonmin, has yet to table formal wage
demands, gold and coal negotiations for companies including
AngloGold are expected to start in June.  Sibanye Gold Ltd. (SGL) ,
South Africa’s second-largest producer of the metal, expects to
cut 1,110 jobs at an unprofitable mine, the company said today.
The NUM is seeking pay increases of as much as 61 percent, more
than ten times  inflation .  Companies “could do with wage cuts instead of wage
increases, simply to keep the mines operating,” Stephanie Barsdorf, a London-based analyst at Noah Capital Markets, said
in a May 20 note to clients.  Amplats, Impala  Anglo American Platinum Ltd. (AMS) , the world’s biggest producer
of the metal, proposed cutting as many as 14,000 jobs to try
return to profit, later reducing that to 6,000.  Impala Platinum
Holdings Ltd. (IMP) , the second-largest, on May 2 said more of its
shafts are producing at a loss.  South Africa supplies about three quarters of the world’s
platinum and is the continent’s biggest gold producer.  The AMCU’s membership rose following the start of an
illegal six-week strike at Impala Platinum in February 2012
after some workers received a pay rise outside of an agreement
with the NUM, Crispen Chinguno, a PhD fellow at Johannesburg’s
University of the Witwatersrand, said in a May 20 e-mail.  “AMCU has been on the horizon for a long time and was
failing to make a significant breakthrough in the big mines
because of recognition agreements which barred union
competition,” Chinguno said. “The NUM had lost its legitimacy.
It was just a matter of workers waiting for any alternative.
This came in the form of AMCU.”  Powerful Allies  Still, the NUM has powerful allies in the form of the ANC
and a relationship with the Chamber of Mines, through which it
has collective bargaining agreements for the gold and coal
industries.  While the NUM regularly holds leadership elections and has
an  investment company , the AMCU operates from Witbank in the
coal-rich Mpumalanga province and hasn’t yet held polls,
according to Chinguno.  The AMCU has come under attack from Zweli Mkhize, the
treasurer-general of the ANC, and Susan Shabangu, the country’s
mines minister.  “There is a difference between militancy and anarchy that
we see growing in newly formed mining unions,” Mkhize told the
NUM’s central executive committee on May 23. “It pains us
comrades to see this labor relations and negotiation framework
being undermined and destroyed through anarchy, violence,
intimidation, murders and illegal wild cat strikes.”  Mkhize urged companies not to give into “scare tactics”
while Shabangu told the same meeting that the AMCU’s actions
amounted to an attack on “freedom of association, assembly and
speech.”  The ANC “is clearly drawing the battle lines,”  Susan Booysen, a political analyst at the university of the
Witwatersrand, said on May 24.  Mathunjwa sees no room to compromise.  “Comrades, NUM’s time came to an end in October 2012, but
the employer is still keeping it on as a recognized union,”
Mathunjwa said, referring to Lonmin. “Keeping the NUM as a
recognized union was done so that it can seek opportunities to
spark conflict among AMCU members.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in Johannesburg at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  