-- BlackRock Seeing Value in Asian Junk-Bond Market, Rieder Says
-- B y   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 2013-05-28T18:22:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/blackrock-seeing-value-in-asian-junk-bond-market-rieder-says.html
BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s biggest
money manager, is finding value in Asian  junk bonds  as prices
for the debt in the U.S. hover at about record highs, according
to the firm’s co-head of fixed income in the Americas.  “High yield in  Asia  is a growing market and still trades
relatively cheap to its U.S. and European counterparts,” Rick Rieder, chief investment officer for fundamental fixed income at
BlackRock in  New York , said in an e-mail.  Investors can find fixed-income opportunities even after a
rally that’s led to 10.7 percent average annualized gains for
corporate bonds globally since 2008, Rieder said yesterday on
Bloomberg Television’s “Market Makers” with  Erik Schatzker  and
Sara Eisen. While speculative-grade borrowers are selling debt
at an unprecedented pace, Rieder said he doesn’t see a bubble
since much of the proceeds from bond sales have gone toward
refinancing existing debt.  “There is nothing cheap in fixed income arguably anywhere
in the world,” Rieder said in the Bloomberg Television
interview. “It’s all about being tactical.”  The face value of securities in the Bank of America Merrill
Lynch Asian Dollar High Yield Corporate Index has tripled to
$67.6 billion since June 2009. The debt has returned 3.3 percent
this year, compared with a gain of 4.7 percent this year for
notes globally, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show.  “We like Asian high yield,” Rieder said.  Asian speculative-grade debt prices averaging 104.6 cents
on the dollar on May 27 were 1.5 cents lower than levels in the
U.S., the index data show. Junk debt in Asia is yielding 6.82
percent, compared with 6.13 percent for dollar-denominated
notes, the data show.  “It’s about getting coupon and income in your
portfolios,” Rieder said.  High-yield, high-risk bonds are graded below Baa3 by
Moody’s Investors Service and lower than BBB- at  Standard &
Poor’s .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Abramowicz in New York at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  