-- Boston Bombing Suspect Mentally ‘Normal,’ Mother Says After Call
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r ,   S t e p a n   K r a v c h e n k o   a n d   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2013-05-28T08:24:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/boston-bombing-suspect-mentally-normal-mother-says-after-call.html
Boston Marathon bombing suspect
Dzhokhar Tsarnaev is recuperating and sounds “normal,” his
mother said following the first phone conversation with her son
since his arrest.  “I couldn’t stop myself from crying,” Zubeidat Tsarnaeva
said in an phone interview late yesterday from Makhachkala, the
capital of Russia’s Dagestan region. “He said: ‘I am absolutely
fine, my wounds are healing. Everything is in God’s hands. Be
patient. Everything will be fine.’”  Tsarnaev, 19, is accused of carrying out the April 15
attack, which killed three people and injured at least 260, with
his brother Tamerlan, who died after a shootout with police. He
was arrested April 19 and is being held at an all-male federal
prison hospital in Ayer,  Massachusetts , recovering from a
gunshot wound to the neck. Tsarnaev faces a possible death
sentence if convicted.  One of his lawyers,  Judy Clarke  has specialized in death
penalty cases, representing “Unabomber”  Ted Kaczynski  and 1996
Olympics bomber Eric Rudolph, where mental health was an issue.
Clarke is a former U.S. public defender in  San Diego  and
Spokane,  Washington , who is now in private practice.  “Mentally he is normal but the child is shocked,”
Tsarnaeva said. “It was really hard to hear him and for him to
hear me. The conversation was very quiet. It was my child, I
know he is locked up like a dog, like an animal.”  Six Minutes  The conversation lasted for about six minutes, Tsarnaeva
said, adding that she was promised one call a month.  Tsarnaev’s lawyers will probably blame his involvement on
the “overpowering influence” of his 26-year-old brother, said
Harvey Silverglate, a civil liberties and defense attorney.
Tamerlan Tsarnaev “appears to have been an embittered and
dangerous character, and it is well known that older siblings
have tremendous power over younger siblings,” he said in an
interview last month.  Zubeidat Tsarnaeva and her husband Anzor emigrated to the
U.S. in 2002 with their two boys and two girls, and divorced in
2011. She left the U.S. for  Russia  while facing shoplifting
charges filed last year. In an interview last month with Russian
state television channel RT, she said her sons were innocent and
had been set up, questioning how they could have carried out the
bombing with Tamerlan under FBI surveillance for at least three
years.  Extremist Islam  Tsarnaev initially communicated to investigators by nods
and in writing that he and his brother alone were responsible
for the bombings and were motivated by extremist Islam,
according to a U.S. official briefed on the initial
interrogation. He also indicated they weren’t aligned with any
known terrorist or military groups.  The Tsarnaev brothers were capable of such a crime, the
leader of the Russia’s Chechnya region,  Ramzan Kadyrov , said in
a statement on his  website  yesterday. While ethnic Chechens,
they had no link to the region, he said.  “I checked information about the brothers through my own
contacts,” Kadyrov said. “Those who knew them well say they
were capable of carrying out illegal acts in any country.”  By contrast, a 27-year-old Chechen man who knew Tamerlan
and who was shot dead during questioning last week in  Florida 
was a “good guy,” Kadyrov said.  Ibragim Todashev’s father works in the Chechen government,
Kadyrov said. “In his last phone conversation with his father,
he told him that he wants to come home because they started to
persecute Chechens in America.”  Law-enforcement officials were questioning Todashev on May
22 about a triple-murder he was suspected of committing two
years ago with Tamerlan when he became irritated and lunged at
officers, according to two officials who asked for anonymity
because of the continuing investigation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Henry Meyer  in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  