-- Brazil Aid to Midsize Banks Seen Surging to $2.4 Billion
-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i
-- 2013-05-28T03:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/brazil-aid-to-mid-size-banks-seen-surging-to-2-4-billion.html
The Brazilian bond program that
provides a lifeline to mid-size banks will climb to 5 billion
reais ($2.4 billion) in coming months, a more than 10-fold
increase, the head of the fund that administers it said.  About 470 million reais of debt was sold since the program
began in August 2012, said Celso Antunes, chief executive
officer of the deposit-insurance fund that guarantees the bonds,
in his first interview since being promoted to that job in
April. The total will surge in coming weeks as more types of
collateral become available, Antunes said.  Issuance has been slow because the privately run fund,
known as  FGC , has required strict proof of collateral and only
allowed bonds backed by loans paid off with payroll deductions,
Antunes said. That’s set to change once FGC has access to the
nation’s social-security database next month or in July, and can
use pension-deductible loans as collateral, he said.  “When we obtain access to the social-security database and
allow these bonds to be issued, we will hit 5 billion very
quickly,” Antunes said in an interview in  Sao Paulo , where FGC
is based.  The fund has been wary of approving new deals after the
central bank was forced to liquidate or bail out seven mid-size
banks since 2010 in the wake of the financial crisis.  Regulators liquidated Sao Paulo-based Banco Cruzeiro do Sul
in September after finding “serious” financial violations.
Banco Panamericano SA required a bailout amid an investigation
into accounting irregularities. The deposit-insurance fund
provided a 3.35 billion-real loan to help finance Grupo BTG
Pactual’s purchase of a controlling stake in Panamericano in 2011.  Fraud Search  Antunes became chief operating officer of Panamericano in
2010 and took the same job at Cruzeiro do Sul in 2012, as part
of FGC’s intervention and probe into possible fraud and hidden
losses on the banks’ balance sheets.  “After all that happened, we are being very cautious and
only taking as collateral the loans that we can confirm really
exist,” Antunes said. “Human creativity is infinite and we
need to be very careful.”  FGC is also studying how to include company loans as
collateral for bond sales.  The fund is phasing out a separate bond program begun in
2009 aimed at strengthening mid-size banks during the global
financial crisis. Those bonds, known as DPGEs, carry guarantees
from FGC for as much as 20 million reais per investor and don’t
have collateral support.  Insurance Premium  Through 2011, banks with less than 2.2 billion reais in
equity could sell DPGEs totaling as much as two times their
capital, paying 1 percent as an  insurance premium  to FGC. The
issuance limit declined 20 percent in January 2012 and another
20 percent in January 2013. New issuance will be prohibited by
January 2016.  About 24 billion reais of DPGEs remain outstanding, Antunes
said. FGC has assets of 32 billion reais, after paying 1.4
billion reais to depositors of Banco BVA SA, which has been
under central bank control since October, and 2 billion reais
for the Cruzeiro do Sul liquidation.  FGC also booked as a loss the 3.35 billion-real loan it
provided as part of the bailout of Banco Panamericano in 2010.  The new bonds, called DPGE2, pay a smaller insurance
premium of 0.3 percent to FGC because collateral adds a layer of
security for the fund.  ‘Crisis Instruments’  “The bond’s guaranteed by FGC, even with collateral, are
crisis instruments and must end,” Antunes said, adding that the
phase-out must be gradual because mid-size lenders still face
funding challenges. Banco ABC Brasil sold bonds overseas in March
denominated in the Brazilian currency, in the first public
offering abroad by a mid-size bank in six months.  Brazil ’s decision to increase deposit guarantees to 250,000
reais per bank from 70,000 reais in April will help mid-sized
lenders raise funds, according to Antunes.  “With a bigger stake of the deposits guaranteed, the mid-sized lender will have appetite to reach a broader base of
investors, reducing their funding risk and the financial system
risk as a whole,” he said.  Antunes said 99.7 percent of depositors will be covered
with the 250,000 reais limit, which more closely mirrors
international standards. In the U.S., deposits are guaranteed by
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. for as much as $250,000.  Created in 1995 and financed by the biggest lenders in
Brazil, FGC has taken on new responsibilities since the 2008
crisis. It used to only pay creditors of bankrupt banks. Now it
acts in preventative ways, providing financing and guarantees
and trying to avert  bank failures . It also helps the central
bank in the consolidation of the financial system. Lenders’
contributions total 0.15 percent of the reserve requirement
deposited at the central bank annually.  In April 2011, FGC helped finance the acquisition of Banco
Schahin SA by Banco BMG SA, a lender focused on payroll-deductible loans. FGC also helped with the purchase of Banco
Matone SA by J&F Participacoes SA, the holding company for beef
exporter  JBS SA. (JBSS3)  The merger between JBS and Matone created Banco
Original.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in Sao Paulo at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  