-- Buy Ratings on Deutsche Bank at Six-Year High on Capital
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2013-05-29T13:38:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/buy-ratings-on-deutsche-bank-at-six-year-high-on-capital-boost.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , continental
 Europe ’s biggest bank, is drawing the most recommendations to
buy its shares in six years after a 3 billion-euro ($3.9
billion) capital increase eased concern over its finances.  Twenty-eight of 41 analysts who cover Deutsche Bank, or 68
percent, advise clients to buy, compared with 49 percent before
last month’s decision to raise capital,  data  compiled by
Bloomberg show. That’s the most since 2007 and the only increase
on a monthly basis among Europe’s top four investment banks.  Deutsche Bank has lagged  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  Credit Suisse
Group AG (CSGN)  in terms of the funds it set aside to cover riskier
assets, raising concern about its financial strength.  Standard &
Poor’s  warned of a ratings downgrade in March, citing lawsuits
and plans by the  Federal Reserve  for foreign banks to capitalize
their U.S. units. The stock has gained 8.5 percent since the
April 30 capital increase, more than double the Bloomberg Europe
Banks & Financial Services Index’s 3.9 percent advance.  “The problems they face aren’t resolved, but are about to
be,” said Antoine Burgard, an analyst with Natixis SA in Paris
who raised his recommendation to buy from neutral on the day of
the share sale. “Now solvency is at the right level.”  Deutsche Bank’s shares have dropped 67 percent from a
record high of 108.138 euros in May 2007 as the collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. froze credit markets, Europe’s
debt crisis sapped economic growth and stricter capital rules
reduced profitability. The stock traded at 35.7 euros at 3:12
p.m. in Frankfurt today.  Capital Overhang  Investors remain skeptical. Deutsche Bank shares trade at a
lower level than peers relative to the book value of its assets.
Its price-to-book ratio is 0.59, less than the 0.83 average for
the Bloomberg Europe index and a sign some investors aren’t
convinced the lender is valuing its assets correctly. The
average 12-month price estimate for the stock is 40.3 euros, the
highest since last September.  “Capital was the main overhang and really drove the
stock’s underperformance in the last few months,”  Jon Peace , an
analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc. who raised his recommendation to
neutral from reduce on the day of the capital increase, said in
a phone interview from  London .  By comparison, 41 percent of analysts recommend buying
shares of Zurich-based Credit Suisse, the second-largest Swiss
bank, which has a price-to-book ratio of 0.99. Seventy-one
percent of analysts rate Barclays buy, the same percentage as
last month, while 48 percent recommend purchasing  UBS AG (UBSN) , the
largest Swiss lender.  ‘Hunger March’  HSBC Holdings Plc, which is advising clients to buy
Deutsche Bank shares, raised its price estimate to 44 euros from
39 euros in an e-mailed report today, saying the impact of the
capital increase hasn’t been fully factored in by investors  Co-Chief Executive Officers Anshu Jain and Juergen Fitschen
have raised Deutsche Bank’s common equity Tier 1 ratio, a key
measure of financial strength under Basel III rules, to 9.6
percent from 7.8 percent at the end of 2012 and less than 6
percent in 2011, company filings show. Barclays had a Tier 1
ratio of 8.4 percent at the end of the first quarter and UBS
10.1 percent.  The extra capital Deutsche Bank raised in the share sale
spelled the end of a “hunger march” among bankers and
investors, Jain, 50, told analysts on a conference call last
month. The firm will have funds to invest in gaining market
share and increasing dividend payouts to shareholders, he said,
without specifying how much cash his board will spend and when
it’ll spend it.  Doubts Remain  Jain and Fitschen have yet to convince everyone. Five of 41
analysts tracked by Bloomberg say investors should sell Deutsche
Bank stock.  Deutsche Bank has raised capital levels by making changes
to how it calculates risk, as well as reducing the amount of
riskier assets on its books and conducting its capital increase.  Jernej Omahen, a London-based analyst with Goldman Sachs
Group Inc., questioned whether “investors will be reassured”
by the bank’s higher capital ratio, which is based on Deutsche
Bank’s own assessment of the riskiness of its assets.  “Is the capital debate really over?” Omahen said in an e-mailed report on April 29, reiterating his sell recommendation
on the stock.  The decision to carry out the capital increase was a
reversal from January, when Jain said it wouldn’t be in
investors’ “best interests” given the level of the company’s
share price.  Cost Pressures  Deutsche Bank is facing potential costs from litigation
that may pressure its finances again. Regulators are probing
attempts by some of its traders to rig interbank borrowing rates
and the bank is also grappling with lawsuits in the U.S. tied to
mortgage-backed bonds. Deutsche Bank raised its litigation
reserves to 2.4 billion euros at the end of March from about 800
million euros six months earlier.  Concern about Deutsche Bank’s securitized products, or
repackaged assets it slices up and sells to clients, prompted
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  to cut its recommendation to neutral from
overweight last week, reversing an increase it made on April 30.  The company will probably be the hardest hit of Europe’s
biggest investment banks by proposed rules due next year that
would assign higher  capital requirements  to the products,
JPMorgan analyst Kian Abouhossein said.  “Deutsche Bank is not out of the woods yet,” Abouhossein
said from London. “We expect an ongoing high cost of equity.”  Bigger Players  Risks at Deutsche Bank are probably exaggerated and the
investment banking unit may benefit as smaller rivals scale down
their businesses, said Arun Melmane, an analyst at brokerage and
financial advisory firm Canaccord Genuity Corp. in London.
Deutsche Bank overtook Barclays to become the biggest bond
trader globally last year with a market share of 11 percent,
according to a Greenwich Associates study published in January.  “The market had overdone it when it came to valuing risks
compared with other firms,” Melmane, who has a buy
recommendation on the stock, said by telephone. “They have a
great franchise. The investment-banking industry is going to
consolidate and there will be scale benefits for the bigger
players like Deutsche Bank.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in  Frankfurt  at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  