-- California With Surplus Eclipses New York Bond Lead: Muni Credit
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2013-05-28T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/california-with-surplus-eclipses-new-york-bond-lead-muni-credit.html
California , which is poised for its
first  budget surplus  in almost a decade, is also set to reclaim
its position as the biggest borrower in the $3.7 trillion U.S.
municipal market.  Issuers in the world’s ninth-largest economy are on pace to
sell more debt than any other state this year after New York and
its localities borrowed the most in 2012 and 2011, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. Bonds sold in California, the most-populous
state, are still extending a three-year winning streak, the
longest stretch since 2006, according to  Standard & Poor’s  data.  California general obligations are leading the state’s 2013
sales, with issuance probably set to exceed $5.6 billion, the
most since 2010, according to  Tom Dresslar , a spokesman for
Treasurer Bill Lockyer. Demand for California debt will match
the offerings after voters in November passed the nation’s
highest sales and income taxes, said Craig Brothers, who helps
manage $3 billion of munis at Bel Air Investment Advisors LLC.  “Having a bigger supply picture is not an issue right
now,” said Brothers, who’s based in  Los Angeles . “You still
have a very strong demand in-state for municipal paper. You have
a higher tax structure, which makes munis more attractive.”  Borrowing Reign  From 1991 to 2010, Golden State issuers led the market in
issuance every year except 1998, according to Citigroup Inc. The
borrowing reign was interrupted as Governor  Jerry Brown , 75,
curbed general-obligation deals in 2011 and 2012 to help close
$25 billion of budget shortfalls. The state received its first
upgrade in six years in January, when Standard & Poor’s boosted
the rating on California’s $73 billion of general obligations to
A, sixth-highest, on an improved financial outlook.  California will collect $3.2 billion more revenue over
three years than Brown projects, according to the state’s
Legislative Analyst’s Office. The budget that Brown, a Democrat,
proposed for the fiscal year beginning July 1 includes a surplus
of $850 million, the first in almost a decade. While the state’s
 9 percent  April jobless rate exceeds the 7.5 percent national
average, it’s the lowest since November 2008.  “The state’s in a better financial position than it’s been
in quite a while,” Brothers said.  Yield Demand  The fiscal prospects have drawn investors. Buyers demand
 0.55 percentage point  of extra yield to hold 10-year debt sold
by California and its municipalities, close to the lowest since
2008 and about half the five-year average, Bloomberg data show.  Of the  $132 billion  of nationwide long-term debt sales in
2013, California and its localities account for  $22.4 billion ,
$10 billion more than second-place  Texas  and more than double
issuance from  New York , which is third, Bloomberg data show.  “The important thing is not that we’re ranked No. 1, but
that we’re helping create much-needed jobs with the
infrastructure projects financed by the bonds,” Dresslar said
in an e-mail.  Debt sold in California has earned 1.3 percent this year,
compared with 1.1 percent for the broader market. The state’s
returns surpassed those of the entire market the past three
years, the longest run since 2006, according to S&P.  California Paying  Investors will receive about $25 billion of principal and
interest payments on California debt in June, July and August,
almost double the $13.5 billion they received in the same period
last year, according to John Hallacy, head of municipal research
at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in New York. Such payments in
the broader market total about $128 billion in the next three
months, $16 billion more than in 2012, the bank forecasts.  The redemption money “has positive leanings for how
spreads will do for California over the summer,” said Jamie Pagliocco, who manages $33 billion of munis as director of bond
managers in Merrimack,  New Hampshire  at  Fidelity Investments .
“It’s just hard to predict, given that a lot of it has
tightened in already.”  Brothers is finding additional yield on local school debt
with general-obligation pledges and credit ratings comparable to
the state’s. The districts receive about 40 percent of state
revenue, so when California’s collections increase, more money
flows to the schools, Brothers said.  He bid on a deal that Natomas Unified School District
issued May 22 with bond insurance from Build America Mutual
Assurance Co. The district in Sacramento County is graded one
step below the state’s S&P rating. It sold bonds maturing in
September 2019 with yields about 0.8 percentage point above top-rated munis, Bloomberg data show. That’s double the spread on
similar-maturity California general obligations that day, BVAL
data show.  “There’s no way you can buy California G.O.’s anywhere
close to that spread,” Brothers said of the school bonds.  Market Week  In the market this week, New York’s  Metropolitan
Transportation Authority  with a $500 million revenue sale will
lead states and cities borrowing about $4.8 billion after U.S.
financial markets shut for the May 27 Memorial Day holiday. It’s
the  slowest week  of issuance since March.  Benchmark 10-year munis yield  1.92 percent , the highest
since April 8, compared with  2.01 percent  for similar-maturity
federal bonds.  The  ratio  of the two yields, about 96 percent, is below the
five-year average of about 100 percent. The lower the figure,
the more expensive municipal debt is compared with Treasuries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  