-- Canada Dollar Falls to 1-Year Low on Wagers Fed to Slow Buying
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-05-28T21:22:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/canadian-dollar-fluctuates-before-carney-s-final-policy-meeting.html
The Canadian dollar fell to a one-year low against its U.S. peer after confidence among America’s
consumers climbed in May to a five-year high, boosting
speculation the  Federal Reserve  could taper its monetary
stimulus.  The currency dropped for a third day versus the greenback
before  Mark Carney  makes his final decision on  interest rates  as
 Bank of Canada  governor tomorrow. All 22 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg predict the outgoing governor will leave the benchmark
rate at 1 percent before his successor Stephen Poloz takes over
June 3.  Canada ’s dollar dropped versus the currencies of
Australia and New Zealand as futures on crude oil and the
Standard & Poor’s  GSCI (SPGSCI)  Index of 24 commodities gained.  “The consumer-confidence data seems to have been a
catalyst for broad U.S. dollar buying -- we’re seeing it against
the euro and we’re seeing it against the Canadian dollar,”  Jack Spitz , managing director of foreign exchange at  National Bank of
Canada (NA) , said by phone from Toronto. “It suggests the Fed is
likely to start its tapering of quantitative easing sooner
rather than later.”  The loonie, as the currency is nicknamed for the image of
the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, fell 0.6 percent to C$1.0398
per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. Toronto time after reaching C$1.0408,
weakest since June 1, 2012. One loonie buys 96.17 U.S. cents.  Yields Rise  Canada’s benchmark 10-year  government bonds  fell, with
yields rising 10 basis points, or 0.10 percentage point, to 2.08
percent, the highest since May 4, 2012. The 1.5 percent security
maturing in June 2023 lost 84 cents to C$94.84.  Futures on crude oil, Canada’s largest export, snapped four
days of losses with a 1 percent gain to $95.13 per barrel in  New
York .  The Conference Board’s index of U.S.  consumer confidence 
rose to 76.2, the strongest since February 2008 and exceeding
the highest estimate in a Bloomberg survey of economists, from a
revised 69 in April, data from the New York-based private
research group showed today. The median forecast called for an
increase to 71.2.  Another report showed U.S. home prices rose in the 12
months through March by the most in seven years as the recovery
in residential real estate gained momentum.  The loonie dropped for a third week versus its U.S. peer
last week after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said
the central bank could cut the pace of asset purchases if
officials see indications of sustained improvement in economic
growth.  Off ‘Cliff’  “The Canadian dollar’s performance is just dropping off a
cliff, which suggests to me a lot of this is flow driven,”
 Shaun Osborne , chief currency strategist at Toronto-Dominion
Bank, said by phone from Toronto. “A lot of the longterm CAD
bulls are starting to reduce their exposure a bit to Canada.”  Canada’s  economy  expanded 2.3 percent in the first quarter,
compared to 0.6 percent the previous period,  Statistics Canada 
will probably say at the end of this week, according to the
median forecast of 22 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  The Bank of Canada lowered its first quarter growth
projection to 1.5 percent from 2.3 percent in April as Carney
told reporters, “considerable monetary policy stimulus
currently in place will likely remain appropriate for a period
of time.”  The warning that the next move on interest rates would be
up has been in every Bank of Canada statement for the last year.  ‘Hawkish Stance’  “We’re waiting for the press release from the bank to see
if they completely take off their hawkish stance -- which I
think is unlikely, as this is Carney’s last meeting,” said  John Curran , senior vice president at CanadianForex Ltd., an online
foreign exchange dealer, by phone from Toronto. “Leaving on
this note, after doing such a good job, to see the Canadian
dollar careening lower off of that move, I don’t think he’d do
it.”  The cost to insure against declines in the loonie versus
its U.S. counterpart fell to its lowest point in two weeks. The
three-month 25-delta risk reversal rate touched 1.46 percent,
the lowest since May 15.  The Canadian dollar is the third-best performing currency
in the last three months against nine other developed nation
currencies in the Bloomberg Correlation Weighted Index. The
loonie gained 2 percent, trailing only the  U.S. dollar ’s 3.1
percent advance and the pound’s 2.1 percent rise. The Aussie
dropped 3.6 percent, the most after the yen’s 7.8 percent
decline.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  