-- Centrica Said to Pick Citigroup for Irish Power Company Bid Help
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2013-05-28T11:50:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/centrica-said-to-pick-citigroup-for-irish-power-company-bid-help.html
Centrica Plc (CNA) , the U.K.’s largest
household energy supplier, picked  Citigroup Inc. (C)  to advise on a
potential bid for the retail unit of Irish state-owned gas
company Bord Gais Eireann, three people with knowledge of the
matter said.  Goodbody Stockbrokers and law firm  Arthur Cox , both based
in Dublin, have also been retained by Centrica to help with an
offer for the gas and electricity supplier, said the people, who
asked not to be identified as the matter is private. Bord Gais
set a June 12 deadline for indicative bids for the unit, which
may be valued at as much as 1.4 billion euros ($1.8 billion),
including debt, two people said on May 24.  The business, Bord Gais Energy, also owns  15 percent  of
Ireland’s installed wind farms. Officials from Centrica,
Citigroup, and  Goodbody Stockbrokers  declined to comment on the
process. Arthur Cox spokeswoman Rachel Hussey didn’t return a
call to her office on May 24 or immediately respond to messages
left today.  “The Irish and U.K. energy markets are closely linked so
it’s natural for us to be interested in what goes on there,”
Windsor, U.K. based Centrica said in an e-mailed response to
questions.  Power Stations  Public Expenditure Minister Brendan Howlin said last week
that Ireland is also committed to selling two overseas power
stations and the National Lottery license by the end of the
year. The disposals are as part the nation’s agreement to raise
3 billion euros from asset sales under its 2010 international
bailout.  GDF Suez SA,  France ’s largest utility by market value, and
 Germany ’s E.ON SE may bid for the business, the Sunday Business
Post reported March 17. Blackstone Group LP has also received an
information circulated to potential bidders, the Irish Times
said on May 25.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  