-- Central U.S. May Be Threatened by Severe Thunderstorms Tomorrow
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2013-05-28T20:27:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/central-u-s-may-be-threatened-by-severe-thunderstorms-tomorrow.html
Severe thunderstorms and possibly
tornadoes are expected to crash through the central U.S. from
 Nebraska  to  Oklahoma  tomorrow.  There is a 45 percent chance of severe storms across the
central Plains in an area that includes Lincoln, Nebraska, and
Wichita, Kansas, according to the  U.S. Storm Prediction Center .  “Large hail, damaging winds and tornadoes, possibly
strong, may accompany supercells that develop,” the Norman,
Oklahoma-based center said in a forecast analysis.  Last week, an EF5 tornado, the strongest on the six-step
Enhanced Fujita Scale, ripped through Moore, Oklahoma, near
 Oklahoma City , killing 24 people, including 10 children, and
destroying at least 1,300 homes. The storm was part of a larger
system of bad weather that spawned twisters, thunderstorms and
hail from Texas to New England.  “I know everyone will be focused on Oklahoma; certainly
you have to watch out in that zone,” said  Tom Kines , a
meteorologist at AccuWeather Inc. in  State College ,
Pennsylvania. “There is a pretty large area out there that
could be exposed to severe weather. I don’t have a good feel for
how much tornado activity there’s going to be, but I can
guarantee there are going to be some very strong storms out
there.”  The storms may cause considerable wind and hail damage, he
said by telephone.  “I would be surprised if there weren’t any tornadoes,”
Kines said.  Watch Today  A tornado watch is in effect until 10 p.m. local time today
for parts of Kansas, Missouri, Iowa and Illinois.  As the thunderstorms break out across the central U.S.,
heat is expected to set in along the East Coast.  Temperatures may reach 91 degrees Fahrenheit (33 Celsius)
in Washington tomorrow and stay above that through the weekend,
according to the  National Weather Service .  In  New York  and Philadelphia, the heat is expected to peak
at 92 the day after tomorrow, the weather service said. Boston
may reach 91 by the weekend.  “The weather pattern is obviously changing,” Kines said.  Snow was reported in parts of Massachusetts,  Vermont  and
New York over the Memorial Day holiday weekend, according to the
weather service.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  