-- Chevron Plans to Sell More Gas From A$52 Billion Gorgon Project
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2013-05-28T03:31:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/chevron-plans-to-sell-more-gas-from-a-52-billion-gorgon-project.html
Chevron Corp. (CVX) , the second-largest
U.S. oil company, said it’s in talks with customers to sell more
liquefied natural gas from its Gorgon project in  Australia  and
to boost the amount sold under long-term contracts.  Chevron wants to have as much as 85 percent of its share of
LNG from the Gorgon development in Australia under long-term
contracts, compared with 65 percent now, Australia Managing
Director Roy Krzywosinski told reporters today in  Brisbane ,
where he’s attending an industry conference.  “We’re in active discussions with customers,”
Krzywosinski said. “The closer we get to first LNG the more
valuable the volumes are going to be. We’re confident we’re
going to be able to market those incremental volumes.”  The cost of Chevron’s Gorgon LNG development, the largest
resources project in Australia’s history, jumped 21 percent to
A$52 billion ($50 billion) on local currency gains and higher
labor expenses, the company said in December. The A$29 billion
Wheatstone LNG project in Australia is on budget and schedule,
the  San Ramon , California-based company said.  Chevron expects to enter the front-end engineering and
design phase of a proposed Gorgon expansion with a fourth
processing unit at the end of the year, he said.  “We have the gas,” he said. “We have the alignment. It’s
just a matter of seeing where this investment climate settles.”  Gorgon, located on the Barrow Island nature reserve off the
northwest coast, is expected to deliver its first liquefied
natural gas cargoes between January and March of 2015 after the
LNG plant starts in late 2014, Chevron said in December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  