-- Chile’s Peso Rout Distorting CPI Forwards to BBVA: Andes Credit
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2013-05-28T11:42:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/chile-s-peso-rout-distorting-cpi-forwards-to-bbva-andes-credit.html
Traders in Chile’s forwards market
are underestimating the outlook for inflation after the biggest
plunge in the peso in two years, say  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya
Argentaria  and Banco de Credito & Inversiones.  Forwards for unidades de fomento, the country’s inflation-linked accounting unit, are pricing in inflation this year of
2.09 percent, down from 2.16 percent the week earlier. BBVA and
BCI predict the cost of living may rise 2.5 percent as the
cheaper peso pushes up import costs. Consumer prices rose an
annual 1 percent in April, the slowest pace in  Latin America .  The peso has plunged 4.2 percent, the steepest decline of
any currency in Latin America, since the central bank said on
May 6 that the  economy grew  at the slowest pace in two years in
March. The decline prompted traders to forecast the next move in
interest rates will be a cut, just six weeks after they had
predicted an increase. With tradable goods making up 58 percent
of  Chile ’s consumer price basket and imports accounting for
almost all the country’s energy needs, the weaker peso will lead
to higher prices, said Jorge Selaive, the chief economist at
BBVA.  “The market isn’t seeing the velocity in the recovery of
inflation,” Selaive said by telephone from Santiago on May 24.
“This depreciation will probably be transferred fairly rapidly
into imported goods and retailers will be very tempted to pass
on the depreciation of the peso to final prices.”  First Signs  Costs are already rising. The state-owned refiner Empresa
Nacional del Petroleo raised the price of wholesale gasoline in
the Santiago region by 2.3 percent on May 23. The decline in the
currency added seven pesos per liter to the price, the company
said.  The peso tumbled 0.4 percent to 490.21 per dollar
yesterday, the weakest close since July 25 last year. The
currency has fallen 3.5 percent in the past month, compared with
2.8 percent for  Colombia ’s peso and  Brazil ’s real.  “More than May it should impact on June’s inflation
because much of the depreciation has been in the last weeks of
May,” Sebastian Senzacqua, an economist at Banco Bice in
Santiago, said by phone from Santiago on May 23. “We expect the
peso to end the year at 500 per dollar as the Fed cuts back its
bond purchases and inflation to end the year at 2.5 percent.”  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told Congress on
May 22 that the bank may slow the pace of bond purchases “in
the next few meetings” if the Fed is confident gains in the
economy can be sustained.  Nothing New  In the last four months of 2011, the peso plunged 12
percent because of concern that the slowing global economy would
erode demand for copper, Chile’s largest export. Inflation beat
analyst forecasts in the last quarter of that year by a
cumulative 0.8 percentage point. The falling peso was partly to
blame, the central bank said in its March 2012 monetary-policy
report.  Traders are reluctant to bet on faster inflation again
after overestimating price growth earlier in the year, Selaive
said. Prices fell 0.5 percent in April after traders forecast a
decline of 0.3 percent and economists predicted a 0.1 percent
drop.  Sebastian Ide, the head of rates trading at  Banco de Chile (CHILE) ,
said that while inflation will accelerate, falling commodity
prices may soften the impact of the weaker peso.  “The bias in inflation has been upwards but people are
still dubious about what the impact will effectively be,” Ide
said by telephone from Santiago on May 24. “The exchange rate
move has been somewhat offset by the decline in commodities.”  Foreign Investors  Foreign investors expect the peso to fall further, adding
to pressure on inflation. They have added $8.7 billion of net
bets against the currency in the forwards market in seven weeks
and on May 22 had an $11.5 billion net short peso position, the
highest since the central bank started publishing daily data in
October 2008.  Foreign investors are pulling out of the currency as the
lower rate expectations menace the carry trade, says Eugenio Cortes, the head of currency forwards at EuroAmerica Corredores
de Bolsa SA in Santiago. In a carry trade, investors borrow in a
currency with low  interest rates  to invest in another with
higher rates. Investors who borrowed dollars to buy pesos
returned 13.8 percent last year. They have lost 3.6 percent so
far in May, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The movement of rates in Chile is more likely to be down,
not up, and that’s changed the scenario,” Cortes said on May
23. “Offshore investors closed their positions.”  Benchmark Rate  Chile’s central bank has kept its  benchmark rate  at 5
percent for 16 consecutive months. The outlook for rates changed
after the central bank reported economic growth of 3.1 percent
in March, compared with the 4.7 percent forecast by analysts.  Copper prices have fallen 10.1 percent this year on the
Comex exchange in  New York , damping the outlook for the world’s
largest producer of the metal.  “Copper affects growth expectations, which affects
rates,” said Felipe Alarcon, an economist at Banco de Credito &
Inversiones in Santiago. “At the same time, the dollar is
strengthening globally so there are better returns elsewhere. It
all indicates weaker emerging-market currencies.”  The yield on Chilean  10-year bonds  rose two basis points,
or 0.02 percentage point, to 5.19 percent yesterday. The 10-year
 inflation-linked  bond yield climbed two basis points to 2.38
percent.  The extra yield investors demand to buy Chile’s 10-year
dollar bonds instead of  U.S. Treasuries  was unchanged at 90
basis points yesterday.  Default Swaps  The cost of protecting Chilean bonds against default for
five years using credit-default swaps was unchanged at 75 basis
points at 7:32 a.m. in Santiago. Credit-default swaps pay the
buyer face value in exchange for the underlying securities or
the cash equivalent if a borrower fails to adhere to its debt
agreements.  A 10 percent depreciation in the peso in Chile would
typically mean an 80 basis point increase in headline inflation
after four quarters, Buscaglia said.  In this case the pass-through of the weaker peso to prices
may be more notable after salaries rose 5.9 percent in the year
through March, compared with inflation of 1.5 percent.  “Inflation expectations have to rise,” said Alarcon, an
economist at Banco de Credito & Inversiones in Santiago. “We
expect inflation to end the year at 2.5 or 2.6 percent versus
what is being priced into the forwards.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  