-- China Steelmakers Challenge Platts Iron Ore Pricing: Commodities
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-05-29T03:26:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/china-steelmakers-challenge-platts-iron-ore-pricing-commodities.html
Chinese steelmakers, the world’s
biggest  iron ore  buyers, are questioning the reliability of the
main industry  price index  for the raw material provided by
Platts, citing concerns about transparency and trading volume.  “We are skeptical because we don’t know the size of the
deal samples and how they work out the indexed prices,” Wang Liqun, deputy general secretary of the China Iron & Steel
Association, said in a phone interview. “If the daily price is
based only on one deal a day, can you trust it?”  China started its own spot trading platform last year,
introducing a weighted average daily price in March. Much of the
global trade, valued at about $180 billion, continues using
Platts, the publisher of energy prices that was raided this
month as part of an oil price-fixing probe. It became the
leading price index after producers including Vale SA and  Rio
Tinto Group (RIO)  scrapped annual contract price talks in 2010.  Market participants including Jiangsu Shagang Group Co.,
China’s largest non-state-owned mill, have questioned whether
buyers are sometimes paying too high a price.  “We found the indexes often dropped slower when the  spot
market  falls, while it always rises quicker when the spot rates
move up,” Shen Wenming, vice president of Jiangsu Shagang
Group, said in an interview. “Indexed pricing dominates the
market. Steelmakers don’t have a say but to follow.”  ‘Evolved’ Pricing  Platts, owned by  McGraw Hill Financial Inc. (MHFI) , publishes
benchmark prices used by the oil industry. It also assesses the
cost of raw materials from coal to power, liquefied natural gas,
shipping rates and iron ore. Platts said May 15 it’s cooperating
with the European Commission’s probe, which also includes
including BP Plc, Royal Dutch Shell Plc and Statoil ASA.  “Iron ore pricing has evolved quickly over the past few
years,” Keith Tan, Platts’s managing editor for steel raw
materials in  Singapore , said by e-mail last week. “The quality
of the information we obtain is key, and we’ve emphasized on
considering transactions, bids and offers that are verifiable,
transparent and firm.”  Platts continuously engages with the industry to explain
its price assessments, Tan said. It’s confident it reports
assessments that accurately reflect current spot market supply
and demand as iron ore pricing changed in recent years, he said.  “Over the past two years, especially, Platts has
increasingly reported on activity in the spot market furnishing
full details like company name and cargo specifications,
bringing unprecedented transparency to the iron ore market,” he
said.  Expand Samples  Vale, Rio and  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the three largest shippers
of iron ore, in 2010 broke a 40-year custom of selling on annual
contracts in the face of opposition from China, favoring instead
sales at spot market rates through auctions and private talks.
Larger Chinese mills are typically paying for contracts on a
monthly or shorter-term basis using price indexes compiled by
Platts.  Deal samples used by Platts account for 6 percent to 9
percent of total iron ore transactions, Qian Haifan, general
manager at  Maanshan Iron & Steel (600808)  Co., said at a conference in
Singapore on  May 8 . Prices are decided by very small trades,
which is “unreasonable and unfair to China’s contract buyers,”
he said that day, according to a  transcript .  “Many Chinese mills are skeptical towards the
representativeness and accuracy of Platts index,” Liu Daguang,
deputy general manager of international trading at  Angang Steel
Co. (347) , China’s largest Hong Kong-traded mill, said at the same
conference. “Platts should expand its deal samples to include
spot transactions at Chinese ports and to be more transparent.”  Dominant Index  “The Platts index is still dominant on the market because
the top three miners are using it, so steelmakers have to
follow,” said Yang Shufang, vice president of researcher
Custeel.com, which also operates an iron ore index. “For most
existing iron ore indexes, it’s hard to track all details of
samples, such as who’s buying and who’s selling.”  BHP, the world’s largest mining company, in March rebuffed
claims by China that the biggest suppliers have manipulated
prices. A recent surge in the cost of iron ore was caused by
changes in demand, market speculation and “unreasonable”
pricing methods,  China ’s top planning body had said.  There were 1.075 billion metric tons of iron ore traded
globally in 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg
Industries, giving the market a value of about $180 billion
according to Bloomberg calculations based on  average prices  of a
$167.60 a dry ton that year.  ‘Greater Transparency’  The Chinese platform, operated by the China Beijing
International Mining Exchange, together with Singapore’s
GlobalORE, has a combined trading volume of 10 million tons a
year, CISA’s Wang said. He’d like to see volumes increase.  “Platts has brought greater transparency to iron ore
pricing since the market has moved from long-term pricing to
short-term pricing,” Joseph Innace, editorial director for
metals, said in e-mail yesterday. “Other sources of data lack
details on counterparty information and cargo specifications.”  Innace said Platts’s IODEX and TSI index services, which
use different information-gathering methodologies, “have each
achieved significant market acceptance.”  Bloomberg LP, the parent of  Bloomberg News , competes with
Platts and other companies in providing energy markets news and
information.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen  Yuan  in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  