-- China Yongda Targets 14-Fold Surge in Audi Sales After Agreement
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-05-28T06:46:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/china-yongda-targets-14-fold-surge-in-audi-sales-after-agreement.html
China Yongda Automobiles Services
Holdings Ltd. (3669) , a distributor of  luxury vehicles , said it aims to
boost sales of Audi-branded cars by 14-fold in five to six years
after signing an agreement with  Volkswagen AG. (VOW)   Yongda this month signed an agreement with a unit of
Volkswagen’s China joint venture, giving it priority to sell new
models of Audi vehicles and take control of certain dealerships.
The Shanghai-based company aims to sell 50,000 units of the
brand annually by 2018 or 2019, up from 3,500 last year,
according to Vice Chairman Wang Zhigao.  “The deal will have significant impact on our right to
expand Audi sales network,” Wang told reporters in a briefing
in  Hong Kong  today. “We will open Audi stores in  China ’s
important cities and Audi will account for a bigger part of our
business.”  Sales of luxury cars in China will likely outpace the
projected eight percent to nine percent annual growth in the
next three years despite a slowing economy and a crackdown on
lavish spending by government officials, according to industry
researcher Alix Partners Ltd.  Yongda received a license at the end of April to provide
auto financing and the company expects the business to help
boost sales, according to Wang.  The company will set aside about 1 billion  yuan  ($163
million) for the finance leasing business this year and in 2014,
though Yongda doesn’t plan to sell a stake in the market to
raise funds, Wang said.  More Dealerships  Yongda’s sales volume in April and May rose at least 10
percent from a year earlier as carmakers controlled their output
and the economy gradually improved, he said.  The car distributor posted a 6.9 percent drop in net income
last year on weak consumer sentiment and an increase in
distribution and selling expenses, according to a statement to
the stock exchange in March.  The company plans to add 34 dealerships this year, selling
brands including  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT) ’s Jaguar Land Rover and
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG’s BMW vehicles, to the 106 stores it
had as of the end of last year, it said last month.’’  Yongda is interested in selling electric vehicles and may
contact Tesla Motors Inc., Executive Vice President Xu Yue said.
The Chinese dealer is still in talks about distributing Maserati
vehicles in China, it said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jasmine Wang in Hong Kong at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net ;
Alexandra Ho in Shanghai at 
 aho113@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  