-- McLaren Forecasts Asia Sales to Double This Year on China
-- B y   M a   J i e
-- 2013-05-28T15:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/mclaren-forecasts-asia-sales-to-double-this-year-on-china-demand.html
McLaren Automotive Ltd., maker of the
P1 supercar that costs about $1 million, forecast sales in  Asia 
will more than double this year on demand from  China .  While overall deliveries will be little changed this year,
Asia’s portion of the global total will jump to 25 percent from
10 percent in 2012, Mirko Bordiga, Asia Pacific regional
director of the Woking, U.K.-based carmaker, said in an
interview in  Tokyo  yesterday. McLaren plans to sell 1,400 units
worldwide in 2013, he said.  McLaren, which began selling road cars in 2011, plans to
open its first four dealerships in China this year and add four
more by the first half of 2014. Luxury car sales in China will
probably surpass those in the U.S. as soon as 2016, according to
McKinsey & Co. estimates.  “This year, we will finally see sales from China,” said
Bordiga, who was in Tokyo to introduce the P1 in Japan. “We are
waiting for the official documents to start the company.”  The Chinese government, as part of a campaign against
extravagant spending, is considering imposing a 20 percent
consumption tax on ultra- luxury vehicles  that cost more 1.7
million  yuan  ($278,000), the Nanfang Daily reported last week.
The story cited an official from a German luxury automaker it
didn’t identify.  Potential additional taxes on luxury vehicles would likely
only affect McLaren Chinese sales in the short term, according
to Bordiga.  Japanese Demand  “We will have to wait and see if and how they will apply
the regulation, and then decide what to do,” said Bordiga. “It
won’t have a big impact in the long term.”  Ultra-luxury cars from manufacturers such as Ferrari SpA
and  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Lamborghini would be most affected by such a
policy,  Haitong International Securities Co. (665)  analyst Liang
Yonghuo wrote in a note yesterday. Total 2013 sales of such
vehicles in China are expected to be 4,000 to 5,000 units,
according to Liang’s estimates.  In Japan, where Prime Minister Shinzo Abe and  Bank of Japan 
Governor Haruhiko Kuroda are using monetary stimulus and fiscal
spending in an attempt to revive the world’s third-largest
economy, Bordiga said he expected rising demand.  “We expect sales will pick up,” said Bordiga. “We have
been lucky that Abenomics is starting to have some positive
effect.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ma Jie in Tokyo at 
 jma124@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  