-- Clarion Said to Buy Midtown South Tower for $225 Million
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2013-05-28T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/clarion-said-to-buy-midtown-south-tower-for-225-million.html
Clarion Partners LLC agreed to buy a
108-year-old  office tower  near  Manhattan ’s  Union Square  for $225
million, more than twice what it sold for three years ago, as
demand in the area surges, a person familiar with the deal said.  Clarion, a New York-based manager of real estate investment
funds, has a contract to purchase  100-104 Fifth Ave . from
Kaufman Organization and  Invesco Ltd. (IVZ) , said the person, who
asked not to be identified because the negotiations are private.
The sellers paid $93.5 million for the 17-story, 270,000-square-foot (25,000-square-meter) property in 2010.  The price reflects the premium buyers will pay for offices
in  midtown south , the areas roughly between 30th and Canal
streets where growing technology, media and fashion companies
have driven the  vacancy rate  to the lowest in the U.S. The deal
values the building at more than $800 a square foot, a  price  at
which only “a handful” of properties have sold since the real
estate crash, said Ben Thypin, director of market analysis for
New York-based research firm Real Capital Analytics Inc.  “Employers want to be in midtown south because their
employees want to be there,” Thypin said. “As a result,
employers are willing to pay significantly higher rents in
midtown south than they have historically and, in turn, the
anticipation of further rent growth makes midtown south an
attractive place to buy property.”  Rising Values  Last year, 610 Broadway, a glass-fronted building at the
corner of Broadway and Houston Street completed in 2005, was
sold to  LaSalle Investment Management  for $108 million, or $886
a square foot, according to Real Capital data. German investment
firm Jamestown Properties paid more than $1,000 a square foot
for the Milk Studios office building at 450 W. 15th St. in the
Meatpacking District, a former factory area that has become a
magnet for nightlife and high-end retail.  Invesco and Kaufman bought 100-104 Fifth as prices were
beginning to recover from the 2008 financial crisis, planning
about $9 million of improvements, according to the building’s
website. They brought in such tenants as  Yelp Inc. (YELP) , the operator
of a local search and user-review website, and Apple Inc.’s iAd
mobile-advertising platform. The building is close to fully
occupied, the person with knowledge of the deal said.  The tower was 60 percent occupied when Invesco and Kaufman
bought it, according to a Jan. 2 story in the  New York  Times.  A call to Suzanne Franks, a spokeswoman for Clarion, wasn’t
returned. Michael Giglio, a principal for Kaufman, a New York-based real estate company, also didn’t return a call. Bill Hensel, a spokesman for Atlanta-based Invesco, declined to
comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  