-- Colony Files to Raise Up to $260 Million in Housing IPO
-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 2013-05-28T14:15:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/colony-files-to-raise-up-to-260-million-in-housing-ipo.html
Thomas Barrack Jr.’s Colony American
Homes Inc., which has bought almost 10,000 U.S. single-family
rental houses since starting last year, filed to raise as much
as $260 million in an initial public offering.  The Scottsdale, Arizona-based landlord, which is buying
foreclosed homes and converting them into rentals, plans to
offer 20 million shares at $11.50 to $13 each, according to a
regulatory filing today. It had a portfolio of 9,931 homes as of
the end of last month, in states including  Arizona ,  California ,
Colorado,  Delaware  and  Florida , the company said.  Colony American is joining companies including Silver Bay
Realty Trust Corp. and American Residential Properties Inc. in
going public to take advantage of investor demand for the
burgeoning homes-for-lease asset class. There are 14 million
rental homes in the country with an average price of $200,000,
valuing the industry at about $2.8 trillion, according to a
report from Goldman Sachs Group Inc. last month.  “Institutional investors currently represent less than 1
percent of single-family housing purchases,” Colony American
said in the filing. “We believe the size of the market, its
historical ownership structure and current highly attractive
acquisition dynamics present us with the opportunity to lead the
institutionalization of the single-family rental market in the
 United States .”  Price Gains  Home-rental firms are helping to boost prices in areas
hard-hit by the real estate crash by draining the market of
inventory as low  mortgage rates  and improving employment fuel
housing demand. There were 2.16 million homes available for sale
last month, the fewest for any April since 2001, according to
the National Association of Realtors.  Home prices  rose 10.9 percent in the 12 months through
March, the biggest gain in seven years, the S&P/Case-Shiller
 index  of 20 U.S. cities showed today.  Colony, part of Barrack’s  Colony Capital LLC , has purchased
homes at an average cost of $163,000, including the purchase
price and estimated upfront renovations, according to today’s
filing. It spent about $250 million per month from February
through April.  The company expects to have about $860 million in cash
available after the share sale.  Credit Suisse Group AG, Morgan Stanley and Bank of America
Corp. are the lead underwriters for the offering. The company
will trade under the symbol CAHS.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prashant Gopal in Boston at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  