-- Comcast Defeats FCC Order on Distributing Tennis Channel
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2013-05-28T17:02:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/comcast-defeats-fcc-order-on-distributing-tennis-channel.html
Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s decision to carry the
 Tennis Channel  as premium programming was a business judgment
that didn’t discriminate against programming owned by others, a
U.S. appeals court ruled, overturning a regulator’s order to
include the channel in lower-cost packages.  A three-judge panel of the U.S. Court of Appeals in
Washington today unanimously rejected a Federal Communications
Commission mandate to make the Tennis Channel more widely
available on its cable systems, a demand the largest U.S. cable
company said would force it to pay hundreds of millions of
dollars more for the programming.  “Without showing any benefit for Comcast from incurring
the additional fees for assigning Tennis a more advantageous
tier, the commission has not provided evidence that Comcast
discriminated against Tennis on the basis of affiliation,”
Circuit Judge  Stephen Williams  wrote.  Comcast sued the FCC after the regulator last year required
it to distribute the Tennis Channel to the same number of
subscribers who receive two sports networks owned by the cable
company, the Golf Channel and the NBC Sports Network. The FCC
also assessed a $375,000 penalty against Philadelphia-based
Comcast.  Investors in the closely held Tennis Channel include Apollo
Partners, Bain Capital Ventures,  Battery Ventures , CCMP Capital
Advisors, Columbia Capital, DND Capital Partners LLC and ex-players  Andre Agassi  and  Pete Sampras , according to the
channel’s website.  Comcast Comment  “Tennis Channel received exactly the carriage it bargained
for and agreed to,”  Sena Fitzmaurice , a spokeswoman for
Comcast, said in an e-mailed statement. She said the company was
pleased with the court’s decision.  Neil Grace, an FCC spokesman, declined to comment on the
decision.  The Tennis Channel, which intervened in the case, said it
would seek additional review of the appeals court’s decision,
according to Eric Abner, a spokesman for the channel.  “We believe that it is the obligation of the FCC to act in
the public interest to ensure a diverse marketplace of voices,
as mandated by Congress when it introduced the Cable Act,”
Abner said in an e-mailed statement.  Bloomberg LP, the parent company of  Bloomberg News , filed a
brief in the case backing the FCC and the Tennis Channel.  The case is Comcast Cable Communications LLC v. Federal
Communications Commission, 12-01337, U.S. Court of Appeals for
the District of Columbia (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington
at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  