-- Commerzbank’s Eurohypo Loses Suit Over Profit Certificates
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2013-05-28T15:57:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/commerzbank-s-eurohypo-loses-lawsuit-over-profit-certificates.html
Commerzbank AG (CBK) ’s Eurohypo unit must
pay interest on profit certificates to a private-equity firm and
a U.S. hedge fund after  Germany ’s top civil court ruled the
lender was wrong to stop payments on the securities in 2009.  Germany’s Federal Court of Justice today backed rulings won
by Crown Ocean Capital Ltd. and QVT Financial LP.  Eurohypo stopped payments on the securities in 2009 after
recording a loss. The certificates were originally issued by
Rheinhyp AG and Hypothekenbank in Essen AG, which later became
part of Eurohypo. Commerzbank bought the real estate lender in
2005 for an estimated 5.9 billion euros ($7.6 billion). The unit
lost 3.5 billion euros in 2011 and is being wound down.  “The terms of the profit certificates didn’t have a rule
for what happened to them in a takeover, so they needed to be
adjusted,” Presiding Judge Alfred Bergmann said. “Since there
was a positive outlook at the time” of the takeover,
Commerzbank “must continue to fully pay interest.”  Commerzbank won’t comment until it receives the court’s
written judgment, Nils Happich, a spokesman for the Frankfurt-based bank, said in an e-mailed statement.  Shares of the bank  fell  0.2 percent to 8 euros in Frankfurt
trading.  Josef Broich, a lawyer for QVT, said while he also hasn’t
seen the written judgment, the court press statement made it
clear “the Federal Court of Justice fully followed the
arguments we made from the beginning.”  2009 Loss  Profit certificates are securities that entitle the holder
to a portion of a company’s profits while obliging them to share
in losses without giving them any ownership of the business.
Commerzbank had a 2009 loss of about 4.5 billion euros, with
Eurohypo’s deficit totaling 902 million euros.  The hearing today was followed by more than a dozen private
investors who hold the securities. They are hoping today’s
ruling will prompt Commerzbank to pay them now as well, said
Malte Daniels, a Berlin-based investor and asset manager who
also bought the securities.  “It would be desirable if Commerzbank would take these
rulings as motive to return to a capital-market friendly
treatment of its capital providers,” Daniels said.  Today’s cases are BGH, II ZR 2/12 and II ZR 83/12.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Karlsruhe via 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@Bloomberg.net . 