-- Commerzbank Downgraded by S&P on Concern Over Profit
-- B y   F r a n k   C o n n e l l y
-- 2013-05-28T13:41:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/commerzbank-downgraded-by-s-p-on-concern-over-earnings-outlook.html
Commerzbank AG (CBK) , Germany’s second-biggest bank, had its debt rating lowered one step by Standard &
Poor’s on concern the lender will struggle to boost earnings on
a sustainable basis.  S&P cut Commerzbank’s long-term counterparty and senior
unsecured credit ratings to A- from A, and its short-term rating
to A-2 from A-1, the ratings company said in an e-mailed
statement today. The outlook on the Frankfurt-based bank is
negative.  “Commerzbank will have an increasingly tough time
generating stronger, more stable, and sustainable earnings in
core businesses that would be closer to levels at similarly
rated banks,” S&P said in the statement.  Commerzbank, which got an 18.2 billion-euro ($23.5 billion)
government bailout during the financial crisis, posted a second
straight loss in the first quarter of this year after booking
costs related to firing staff. The company began a 2.5 billion-euro share sale on May 15, its fifth capital increase in four
years, to boost reserves and help pay back the state. The
subscription period for the sale ends today.  Commerzbank pared gains of as much as 3 percent in
Frankfurt trading, and was 0.5 percent higher at 8.05 euros by 3
p.m. local time. The shares have  fallen  25 percent this year,
compared with an 11 percent  increase  for the 40-company
 Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services Index .  The firm, which handed the government a 25 percent stake in
the 2009 bailout, is eliminating staff and winding down shipping
and real estate units to help it return to profit. Poor economic
conditions across the euro region, and even in  Germany , leave
Commerzbank “vulnerable to its high-risk lending
concentrations” in certain segments, particularly commercial
real estate and shipping, S&P said.  Moody’s Investors Service cut Commerzbank’s debt rating to
Baa1 last month, one step lower than the bank is now rated by
S&P, citing “intrinsic” weak earnings power.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  