-- Copper Drops on Concern Slowing Growth in China May Hurt Demand
-- B y   S u n g w o o   P a r k
-- 2013-05-28T03:33:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/copper-drops-on-concern-slowing-growth-in-china-may-hurt-demand.html
Copper declined for the third
straight day, paring a monthly advance, on concern that slowing
economic growth in  China  may crimp demand in the world’s biggest
consumer of industrial metals. Nickel fell.  Metal for delivery in three months dropped as much as 1.1
percent to $7,220 a metric ton on the London Metal Exchange, and
was at $7,237 at 11:19 a.m. in  Singapore . Futures for July
delivery fell 0.7 percent to $3.2730 a pound on the Comex. The
LME and Comex floor trading were shut for holidays yesterday.  Premier Li Keqiang, speaking in Berlin yesterday, said that
policy makers may maintain slower growth, with China facing huge
challenges as it opens up the economy. A preliminary reading of
a Purchasing Managers’ Index from HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics, released last week, showed a reading of 49.6 for May,
below the level of 50 that separates growth and contraction.
Official manufacturing index data are due on June 1.  “The concern about China’s economic slowdown is still
there,” said Hwang Il Doo, a senior metals trader at Seoul-based Korea Exchange Bank Futures Co. “The growth concern
remains in the background.”  The second-largest economy expanded 7.7 percent in the
first quarter, missing economists’ forecasts and down from the
7.9 percent pace in the previous three months. The government
has a full-year target of 7.5 percent.  Prices are up 2.6 percent this month, set for first gain in
since January, amid concern that an accident that prompted a
halt at the second-biggest mine is curbing supply. Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc.’s Grasberg mine in  Indonesia  stopped
mining after a tunnel collapse killed 28 workers.  Copper for September delivery declined 1 percent to 51,990
 yuan  ($8,491) per ton. On the LME, lead fell, while zinc and
aluminum were little changed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sungwoo Park in Seoul at 
 spark47@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brett Miller at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  