-- Coty Shareholders Seek to Raise Up to $1.1 Billion in IPO
-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 2013-05-28T15:49:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/coty-shareholders-seek-to-raise-up-to-1-1-billion-in-ipo.html
Coty Inc. (COTY) , the maker of perfumes by
Beyonce Knowles and Heidi Klum, is seeking as much as $1.1
billion on behalf of its shareholders in a U.S. initial public
offering next month.  The company’s owners, including Joh. A. Benckiser and
private-equity firm Berkshire Partners LLC, plan to offer 57.1
million shares for $16.50 to $18.50 each, according to a
regulatory filing. Coty won’t get any proceeds from the IPO,
which is set for June 12, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Companies have generated almost $18 billion from IPOs on
U.S. exchanges this year as the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has
risen to record levels, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
deal may set the stage for CDW Corp., HD Supply Holdings Inc.
and other private-equity-backed companies to go public this year
as owners look to unload assets they’ve held since before the
financial crisis.  “Private-equity funds are looking to monetize what they’ve
been holding onto for a period of time,” said Jeff Sica, who
oversees more than $1 billion as chief investment officer of
Morristown, New Jersey-based Sica Wealth Management LLC.
“Either they do it now or they miss their window.”  Coty, based in New York, filed for the IPO in June of last
year and pushed back plans to complete the sale until this year
partly to give Chief Executive Officer Michele Scannavini time
to adjust to the role, people familiar with the matter said in
September. Scannavini took over Aug. 1, replacing Bernd Beetz.  Avon Overtures  The fragrance company filed for its initial offering after
failing to gain control of  Avon (AVP)  Products Inc.’s global door-to-door sales network through a takeover last year. Chairman Bart
Becht had attempted the acquisition to find new customers for
Coty’s cosmetics and more than double its annual sales from
brands including Cerruti and Wolfgang Joop. Coty has sought to
increase revenue by entering new regions and expanding
distribution of its brands in  emerging markets .  At the midpoint of Coty’s price range, the company’s common
stock would be valued at $6.72 billion, including some shares
that will be vested upon completion of the sale, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  Including debt of $2.53 billion and cash, Coty would have
an enterprise value of $8.47 billion, about 11 times earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization of $788.8
million in the 12 months through March 31, excluding the effects
of restructuring and acquisition-related costs, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Cosmetics Performance  Coty’s offering also comes after publicly traded peers such
as Avon and  Estee Lauder  Cos., the maker of Mac cosmetics and
Clinique skin-care products, have outperformed the broader stock
market. Through May 24, Estee Lauder had gained 19 percent this
year, while Avon had  surged  64 percent, beating the 16 percent
jump in the S&P 500, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Estee Lauder currently  trades  at an enterprise value that
is about 15 times Ebitda in the last year, and Avon trades at a
multiple of about 14, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Bank of America Corp., JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Morgan
Stanley are managing Coty’s sale. Coty, which holds perfume
licenses for brands including Calvin Klein and Marc Jacobs, was
founded in 1904 in Paris by Corsican-born Francois Coty.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  