-- Croatia's Slump Continued at Slower Pace, Survey Shows
-- B y   M a n i s h   M o d i   a n d   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c
-- 2013-05-28T09:30:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/croatia-s-slump-continued-at-slower-pace-survey-shows.html
Croatia ’s economy probably shrank at
a slower pace than a year earlier in the first quarter as rising
construction and energy output damped the effect of falling
consumption and investments.  Gross domestic product contracted 1.6 percent from the
first quarter of 2012, according to the median estimate of four
economists in a Bloomberg survey, less than the 2.3 percent drop
in the previous three-month period. The  statistics office  will
publish the data tomorrow at 11 a.m. in Zagreb.  The economy in Croatia, which joins the EU July 1, hasn’t
grown since 2008 because of  Europe ’s debt crisis, pushing
foreign direct investment down last year to almost a fifth of
2008’s $4.2 billion. The nation is counting on 10 billion euros
($13 billion) in EU funds through 2020 to reignite growth.  “The recession will continue this year, but the decline
will soften in the second half of the year,” said Velimir
Sonje, an economist at the  Zagreb School of Economics and
Management . “In the short term, the effects of the EU entry
will not be significant.”  The  government  forecasts 0.7 percent growth this year after
last year’s 2 percent contraction. The European Commission said
on May 3 said Croatia’s GDP will drop 1 percent in 2013 as
domestic demand continues to decline, while net exports will
provide “limited support’ to growth of 0.2 percent in 2014.  The yield on Croatia’s dollar-denominated bond maturing
July 2020 climbed to 4.625 percent at 10:40 a.m. in Zagreb, the
highest since April 4. The cost of insuring the debt with five-year credit-default swaps, which rise as perceptions of
creditworthiness worsen, rose to 299 from 291 yesterday.  Revival Signs  ‘‘The decline has softened as the building industry showed
signs of revival and weather conditions resulted in a double-digit increase in electricity production,” Zdeslav Santic, the
chief economist at  Soc-Gen (GLE)  Splitska Banka d.d., said. “The key
issue is whether the private sector will succeed in awakening
investment in the second half, and how strong the immediate
impact of EU entry will be.”  The country’s debt is rated junk by  Standard & Poor’s  and
 Moody’s Investors Services , citing the stalled recovery, a lack
of budget discipline and vulnerability to external shocks.  Fitch
Ratings  gives the nation its lowest investment grade.  Public debt will increase to 55 percent of economic output
this year, while state borrowing will total 27 billion kuna
($4.7 billion), the government forecasts.  The government on March 21 said it would try to limit this
year’s public deficit to 2012’s estimated 3.4 percent of GDP,
compared with an earlier forecast of 3.9 percent, by cutting
investment in water projects.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Manish Modi in  New Delhi  at 
 mmodi6@bloomberg.net ;
Jasmina Kuzmanovic in Zagreb at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  