-- Daimler to Recall New Mercedes A-Class Cars Due to Airbag Fault
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h   R a u w a l d
-- 2013-05-28T15:39:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/daimler-to-recall-new-mercedes-a-class-cars-due-to-airbag-fault.html
Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz, the
world’s third-biggest maker of luxury vehicles, is recalling new
A-Class models to fix a safety fault less than a year after the
sporty hatchback hit showrooms.  The front passenger airbag might not inflate properly in
case of an accident, Wolfgang Zanker, a spokesman for the
Stuttgart, Germany-based carmaker, said today via telephone. The
defect affects around 6,000 cars in  Germany , where most of the
vehicles were sold, he said.  Mercedes revamped the A-Class last year to attract younger
customers and boost sales as it seeks to catch up with
 Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  and  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi. The new
version abandoned the upright, boxy shape of the original A-Class, which was refitted with additional safety features after
Daimler acknowledged design weaknesses.  Mercedes will fix the A-Class cars, which were produced
between June and December, free of charge, he said, declining to
comment on the cost of the repairs. The recall was earlier
reported by German trade magazine Auto, Motor & Sport.  The move marks Daimler’s second recall within a month.
Daimler said on May 6 it is recalling the new Mercedes Citan van
to repair the airbag system following “unsatisfactory” tests.  Daimler aims to regain the top spot in luxury car sales by
the end of the decade after falling behind BMW eight years ago
and Audi in 2011. Mercedes beat sales growth at its main rivals
last month, thanks mainly to demand of the compact A- and B-Class models. Mercedes reworked the A-Class to compete more
directly with BMW’s 1-Series and Audi’s A3.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christoph Rauwald in Frankfurt at 
 crauwald@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  