-- Datatec Targets Acquisitions in U.S. as Weak Rand Boosts Profit
-- B y   J a c o   V i s s e r
-- 2013-05-28T10:40:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/datatec-targets-acquisitions-in-u-s-as-weak-rand-boosts-profit.html
Datatec Ltd. (DTC) , a South African
computer-networking company whose stock is rising as the rand
falls versus the dollar, is considering acquisitions in the U.S.
on signs the world’s biggest economy improved.  “This year we do sense a recovery in the U.S.,” Chief
Executive Officer Jens Montanana said by phone from  London .
“For the first time in five to six years we are starting to
have the conviction that that market is getting stronger. We may
start to look at the U.S. for acquisitions.”  Datatec, which installs  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) ’s products, is
benefiting from a decline in  South Africa ’s rand to a four-year
low against the dollar, with more than 98 percent of its
 earnings  coming from outside its home market. The company, which
trades its stock in Johannesburg and London, will also target
growth through potential purchases in  South America , Africa, the
 Middle East  and  Asia , Montanana said on May 23.  “U.S. margins are quite low for Datatec, however when the
market picks up, those businesses benefit from significant
operating leverage,” Dirk Noeth, a Cape Town-based analyst at
Avior research (Pty) Ltd., said in an e-mailed reply to
questions yesterday. “Datatec is unlikely to look at large,
listed players. Smaller bolt-on distributors with exposure to
networking and related software and services are likely to fit
their target profile.”  Datatec “rarely” makes acquisitions totaling more than 10
percent of its annual sales, Montanana said. In the past five to
10 years, the Johannesburg-based company on average did between
$100 million and $150 million in buyouts per year, he said.  Rand Hedge  The stock has gained almost in lock-step with the rand’s
weakening against the dollar since May 16, a day after Datatec
reported fiscal full-year underlying profit per share climbed 16
percent. The correlation between daily moves in the shares and
the rand against the dollar was more than 0.85 through
yesterday’s closing price, close to the 1 reading that would
mean they move in tandem.  “For South African investors we’re a pure rand hedge,”
Montanana said.  The currency of  Africa ’s largest economy has dropped 13
percent this year, the worst performer among 16 major currencies
monitored by Bloomberg after the yen. Datatec has gained more
than 16 percent this year. The stock, the sixth-best performer
on the 61-member FTSE/JSE Africa Midcap Index in May, reached
57.60 rand on May 21, its highest since September 2000, while
the rand weakened almost 2 percent.  “It still seems an attractive play to me, with recent
movements driven by currency moves, rather than growth in
underlying earnings,” said Noeth, who has an outperform
recommendation on the stock, the equivalent of a buy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jaco Visser in Johannesburg at 
 avisser3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  