-- Deadly Strain of Hand, Foot and Mouth Disease Blocked in Study
-- B y   N a t a s h a   K h a n
-- 2013-05-28T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/deadly-strain-of-hand-foot-and-mouth-disease-blocked-in-study.html
An experimental vaccine prevented
young children from being infected by a virus that caused 2,000
deaths from hand, foot and mouth disease in the past decade,
according to a late-stage  clinical trial .  The shot provided “significant protection” against
disease associated with enterovirus 71, known as EV71,
especially hand, foot and mouth disease in children under the
age of three, according to the  study  by Chinese scientists
published online in the Lancet today.  The vaccine candidate is one of two in the final stage of
clinical trials for use against a virus also associated with
more severe diseases, such as aseptic meningitis and
encephalitis, in children younger than age five. The
experimental shot doesn’t protect against hand, foot and mouth
disease originating from coxsackievirus A16, which the  World
Health Organization  says is the  most common  cause.  “This multicenter randomized controlled trial done in
China is a notable advance in protection against EV71,” Nigel
Crawford and Steve Graham, pediatricians at the  Murdoch
Childrens Research Institute  in  Melbourne , wrote in an
accompanying commentary. “The major effect of this vaccine will
be to reduce hospital admissions.”  Symptoms of hand, foot and mouth disease, or HFMD, include
fever, blister-like sores in the mouth, and a skin rash,
 according to  the Atlanta-based U.S. Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention.  Four Sites  The researchers, led by Zhu Fengcai of the Jiangsu
Provincial Center for Disease Control and Prevention, tested
more than 10,000 healthy children between 6 months and 35 months
old at four sites in  China . Participants were randomly assigned
to get two doses of placebo or vaccine over four weeks, and were
tracked for a year starting March 2012.  Among those who received the vaccine, 90 percent were
protected against HFMD linked to EV71, and 80.4 percent against
EV71-associated disease, including neurological complications,
for at least a year.  The scientists found no evidence that the vaccine provided
protection against coxsackievirus A16.  “Despite its high efficacy for preventing EV71-associated
HFMD, the EV71 vaccine might have little part in reducing the
overall incidence of HFMD, even by universal mass immunization
of children,” the researchers wrote.  EV71 has been associated with serious complications and may
be fatal, while HFMD caused by coxsackievirus A16 usually
results in a mild disease, according to the Geneva-based  WHO .  Potentially Fatal  Encephalitis and meningitis are  potentially fatal 
conditions in which the brain or its lining become inflamed.  The research was funded by China’s 12–5 National Major
Infectious Disease Program and Beijing Vigoo Biological, a unit
of China National Biotec Group. The group is part of  Sinopharm
Group Co. (1099) , China’s biggest drug distributor.  Zhu, the study’s lead scientist, presented the results of
another EV71 vaccine being tested by  Sinovac Biotech Ltd. (SVA)  at the
13th Annual World Vaccine Congress & Expo in Washington D.C.
last month, the company said. That vaccine has also undergone
phase-three testing, according to the Sinovac announcement.  Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. (4502) , Asia’s biggest drugmaker, added
an early-phase EV71 vaccine candidate to its pipeline this month
with an agreement to acquire Inviragen Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natasha Khan in  Hong Kong  at 
 nkhan51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  