-- Detnor Gains After Raising Jette Oil Output Guidance: Oslo Mover
-- B y   A l a s t a i r   R e e d
-- 2013-05-28T11:18:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/detnor-jumps-on-report-of-improved-output-from-jette-oslo-mover.html
Det Norske Oljeselskap ASA (DETNOR) , an energy
producer with stakes in Norway’s biggest find in 40 years, pared
gains in Oslo trading after increasing production guidance for
its Jette field in the  North Sea  by less than had been reported.  The Trondheim-based company gained 1.9 percent to 92.5
kroner as of 1:07 p.m. local time, having earlier surged as much
as 3.6 percent to 94 kroner, the  highest intraday level  in seven
months.  Detnor, which started output from Jette on May 21, expects
gross initial production from the field’s two wells of about
12,000 to 15,000 barrels of oil a day, up from earlier guidance
of about 10,000 barrels, it said in a statement. Shares jumped
earlier after Offshore.no, an oil-industry website, said Jette
is producing at about 21,000 barrels a day, citing an
unidentified person.  Output at that rate would have been double expectations,
Alex Gheorghe, an analyst at RS Platou Markets AS, said in an e-mail. “The news is positive since the project was written off
last year, and management has previously disclosed it’s unlikely
it will recover costs,” Gheorghe wrote. “We expect the stock
to outperform by about 1 to 2 kroner a share.”  Detnor is transforming itself from an exploration company
into an oil producer as pumping begins at fields including Jette
and Ivar Aasen, scheduled to start in the fourth quarter of
2016. The company took a 1.9 billion kroner ($329 million)
writedown on Jette in the third quarter after technical problems
with a production well.  “Jette is a small field and there are uncertainties with
respect to future production rates,” Detnor said today. The
company has a 70 percent stake in Jette, while Petoro AS, which
manages  Norway ’s direct stakes in its oil and gas assets, has
the remaining 30 percent.  Shares in Detnor have more than tripled in the last two
years after finds including Johan Sverdrup, which could hold as
much as 3.6 billion barrels of oil, making it the biggest
discovery off Norway since 1974. Detnor has stakes in two of the
three licenses containing Sverdrup.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alastair Reed in in Oslo on  at
 areed12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at   jbergman@bloomberg.net  