-- Deutsche Telekom Wins Dismissal of $791 Million Data Suit
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2013-05-28T16:24:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/deutsche-telekom-wins-dismissal-of-791-million-data-lawsuit.html
Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  won dismissal of
a lawsuit by the founders of  Telegate AG (TGT)  seeking 612 million
euros ($791 million) over claims the phone company overcharged
for directory data.  Klaus Harisch and Peter Wuensch can’t claim compensation,
the Cologne Regional Court ruled today. They had argued that the
value of their Telegate shares had declined because Deutsche
Telekom had overcharged for the data. The court also rejected a
separate lawsuit by Telegate seeking 86 million euros over
similar claims. Telegate shares fell as much as 8.8 percent.  Deutsche Telekom has defended lawsuits for almost a decade
by directory-service providers who said they were being charged
too much for the services and data that  Germany ’s former phone
monopoly was required by law to provide. The country’s top civil
court last year backed two lower court rulings requiring Bonn-based Deutsche Telekom to pay back a combined 97.2 million euros
in overcharged fees and legal costs.  Telegate, based in Munich, said in a statement that it
would appeal the ruling that applied to the company. Georg
Jochum, a lawyer for the plaintiffs, declined to immediately
comment.  The Cologne court’s press office declined to give reasons
for the judges’ ruling.  Telegate  shares  fell 6.2 percent to 9.10 euros at the close
of trading in  Frankfurt .  At a hearing in the case in November, Presiding Judge
Rainer Hahn said the court had already doubted the claims
because the two men are seeking damages that would have been
incurred by the company, and not them individually.  Telegate, majority owned by  Italy ’s  Seat Pagine Gialle SpA (PG) 
and based in Munich, had argued that Deutsche Telekom’s
overcharging curbed profits. Harisch and Wuensch had said they
had to sell their stakes for a lower value because of Deutsche
Telekom’s practice.  Today’s cases are LG Koeln, 87 O 7/06 and 87 O 8/06.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Karlsruhe via 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  