-- Dividend Deals So Hot Even Dr. Dre Seeking Loans: Credit Markets
-- B y   K r i s t a   G i o v a c c o
-- 2013-05-28T16:08:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/dividend-deals-so-hot-even-dr-dre-seeking-loans-credit-markets.html
Private-equity firms from  Bain
Capital  to Onex Corp. are raising loans through companies they
own to pay themselves dividends at a pace that exceeds even the
frothy days leading to the worst financial crisis since the
Great Depression.  Borrowers controlled by buyout firms are on pace to raise
more than $11.5 billion this month through dividend deals, a
record and up from $3.6 billion in April, according to Standard
& Poor’s Capital IQ Leveraged Commentary & Data. Beats
Electronics LLC, the headphone maker founded by rapper Dr. Dre
and Geffen A&M Chairman  Jimmy Iovine , is meeting lenders
tomorrow to seek $700 million in such loans, according to people
familiar with the situation who declined to be identified.  An increasing number of borrowers are taking advantage of
investor demand for relatively high yields as the  Federal
Reserve (FDTR)  keeps benchmark  interest rates  at about zero for a fifth
year. Rather than refinancing debt at lower interest rates or
funding expansion, dividend loans do little more than add
leverage.  “Raising debt and leverage to fund a dividend weakens a
company’s credit profile,” Lenny Ajzenman, an analyst at
Moody’s Investors Service in  New York , said in a telephone
interview. “Using the proceeds for acquisitions or  capital
expenditures  is less clear cut as far as its effect on the
issuer’s credit profile.”  Loan Prices  Leverage, or debt to earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation or amortization for U.S. speculative-grade
borrowers tracked by S&P’s Capital IQ LCD, rose to 4.8 times
this month, up from 4.1 in April and from a post-crisis low of
3.5 times in February 2009.  Loan prices climbed to 98.88 cents on the dollar on May 9,
the most since July 2007, according to the S&P/LSTA U.S.
Leveraged Loan 100 Index. The debt has returned 3.2 percent this
year, after gaining 10.5 percent in 2012.  About $33 billion of loans have been raised this year to
support payouts according to S&P Capital IQ LCD. Dividend
volumes in the U.S. speculative-grade market is “on pace for a
record year,” Morgan Stanley analysts wrote in a May 17 report.  Pitching Clients  Such financings are on the rise as the pace of leveraged
buyouts slows. The amount of capital controlled by private
equity firms that has yet to be invested increased to about $366
billion in May, according to data from Preqin Ltd. At the same
time, loans supporting buyouts plunged to the lowest level since
August 2012, S&P’s Capital IQ LCD data show.  “With a light LBO calendar, capital markets desks on the
Street are looking for seasoned leveraged credits to pitch
dividend deals to,” Douglas Antonacci, a New York-based
managing director and co-head of loan sales at Bank of America
Corp., said in a telephone interview. The bank is the biggest
underwriter of leveraged loans in the U.S.  Elsewhere in credit markets, a gauge of U.S. corporate
credit risk declined the most in more than three weeks as
 consumer confidence  rose in May to the highest level since
February 2008.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, dropped 2.5
basis points to a mid-price of 73.3 basis points at 11:28 a.m.
in New York, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The
measure fell by as much as 3.1 basis points, the biggest
intraday decline since May 3.  Confidence Boost  The Conference Board’s  consumer confidence  index rose to
76.2 this month, the highest level since February 2008, from a
revised 69 in April, data from the New York-based private
research group showed today. The S&P/Case-Shiller index of
property values increased 10.9 percent from March 2012, the
biggest 12-month gain since April 2006, a report showed today.  The credit-swaps index typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
bond market stress, added 1.83 basis points to 16.83 basis
points as of 11:34 a.m. in New York. The gauge widens when
investors seek the perceived safety of  government securities  and
narrows when they favor assets such as corporate bonds.  GE Bonds  Bonds of Fairfield, Connecticut-based  General Electric Co. (GE) 
are the most actively traded dollar-denominated corporate
securities by dealers today, accounting for 3.9 percent of the
volume of dealer trades of $1 million or more as of 11:57 a.m.
in New York, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system
of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  About $293.2 billion of loans have been made this year,
compared with $465.7 billion in all of 2012, according to S&P’s
Capital IQ LCD. Issuance has been bolstered by growth in
collateralized loan obligations and inflows into mutual funds
that buy the debt.  More than $36 billion of CLOs have been raised this year,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. The bank is forecasting
managers will create about $70 billion of CLOs this year,
compared with $55 billion in 2012, the biggest year since the
market collapsed during the financial crisis.  Leveraged loans and high-yield, high-risk bonds are rated
below Baa3 by Moody’s and lower than BBB- at S&P.  ‘Optimal Time’  “Demand for loans has been very strong this year and hence
the ability to get dividend deals done,” Adam Richmond, a
credit strategist at Morgan Stanley in New York, said in a
telephone interview. “The cost of debt is cheap making it an
optimal time for companies to issue debt.”  Investors have poured about $26.2 billion into funds that
purchase bank loans this year through May 23, according to Bank
of America. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told U.S. lawmakers May
22 the central bank could taper its $85 billion monthly bond
purchase program designed to spur growth and lower unemployment
if it can be confident of sustained gains in the economy.  “From a timing perspective, there may be incentive to get
debt deals done now ahead of the typical summer slowdown and
ahead of any tapering of bond purchases by the Fed, which could
lead to rising rates,” Richmond said.  Beats Electronics  Dividend transactions, which fund payouts to owners and
increase leverage without enlarging the asset base supporting
the debt, “weaken  credit quality ,” Moody’s analysts led by
David Keisman in New York wrote in a May 1 report.  The U.S. speculative-grade default rate rose to 3.1 percent
in April from 3 percent the prior month, according to Moody’s.  While Moody’s Liquidity-Stress Index rose to 3.2 percent in
mid-May from a record-low 2.8 percent at the end of April, most
U.S. speculative grade companies have enough liquidity to
withstand “tepid” growth in revenue and a sluggish economy,
analysts led by Tom Marshella wrote in a May 15 report.  Barclays Plc, Citigroup Inc., and JPMorgan are arranging a
$500 million  term loan  and $200 million line of credit for  Santa
Monica , California-based Beats Electronics, Bloomberg data show.
The company obtained a $225 million term loan last July for
working capital, Bloomberg data show.  Air Medical  Onex’s Carestream Health Inc., a provider of medical
supplies, may pay interest at 3.25 percentage points to 3.5
percentage points more than the London interbank offered rate on
a $1.85 billion, first-lien term loan due in six years and at
7.5 percentage points more than Libor on a $500 million second-lien portion maturing in 6.5 years, Bloomberg data show.  Both loans for the Rochester, New York-based company won’t
have financial maintenance requirements, meaning there are no
provisions restricting companies from loading up on debt.  Air Medical Group Holdings, a provider of air-ambulance
services, will pay interest at a fixed rate of 7.625 percent, or
in additional debt at a 75 basis-point premium on a $200 million
loan to fund a payout to Bain. Such payment-in-kind, or PIK,
payments allow borrowers to repay lenders with more debt. A
basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Emma Thompson, a vice president of  investor relations  at
Onex Corp. in Toronto, didn’t return a telephone call seeking
comment. Alex Stanton, a spokesman for Bain at Stanton Public
Relations and Marketing, declined to comment. Jessica Bass, a
spokeswoman for Beats Electronics, didn’t respond to an e-mail
seeking comment.  “Investors are eager for yield and issuers are
responding,” Morgan Stanley’s Richmond said. “If rates stay
low and volatility stays low, we’ll continue to see more of this
activity.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krista Giovacco in New York at 
 kgiovacco1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  