-- EADS to Revamp Premium Aerotec Supplier With Management Overhaul
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n   a n d   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-05-28T19:36:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/eads-s-premium-aerotec-drops-ceo-and-plans-cost-cuts-by-2015.html
European Aeronautic, Defence and
Space Co.  plans to accelerate cost cuts at one of its main in-house suppliers with the help of new management, just weeks
before the planned maiden flight of its latest Airbus A350 jet.  Premium Aerotec, which Airbus and EADS created in 2009 from
German factories that they failed to sell, will seek new
leadership after Chief Executive Officer Kai Horten and Chief
Financial Officer Helmut Kretschmer were dismissed, according to
a statement today. The unit will also review the number of
external workers and reduce its network of suppliers, it said.  “Regaining the company’s productivity is essential,” said
Gunter Butschek, the Airbus chief operating officer and Premium
Aerotec chairman. The aim for Premium Aerotec is to reach
positive free cash flow as it undergoes an “intensive” cost
review by 2015, according to the release.  EADS CEO Tom Enders, who previously ran Airbus, has pushed
for savings at subsidiaries including the Cassidian defense
unit, as he seeks to bring profitability in line with output.
Premium Aerotec, with sales of 1.5 billion euros ($1.9 billion)
in 2012, makes metal and carbon-fiber structures and equipment
for Airbus, and Enders has said suppliers’ health is key to help
Airbus lift production.  The management reshuffle comes as Airbus prepares to
perform a first flight of the A350 by mid 2013, with plans for
the wide-body plane to enter commercial service by late 2014.
The restructuring will have no effect on the A350 program or on
EADS’s financial performance, spokesman  Rainer Ohler  said.  Airbus CEO Fabrice Bregier announced an overhaul at Airbus
last year under Butschek’s supervision, entrusting middle
management at the planemaker with more authority to make
investment decisions without needing approval from headquarters.  When Premium Aerotec was created in 2009, EADS had sought
to separate the business from the parent and prepare it for an
eventual sale as Airbus aimed to trim risk by sharing it with
suppliers. EADS has said it would revisit the plans for a sale
once it has made certain a change of ownership won’t disrupt
output of the A350.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  