-- Health Law Critics Seek to Gut It by Attacking Exchanges
-- B y   S h a n n o n   P e t t y p i e c e   a n d   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2013-05-28T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/health-law-critics-seek-to-gut-it-by-attacking-exchanges.html
Opponents of President  Barack Obama ’s
health-care law are gearing up for a new round of attacks, this
time targeting the legislation’s  insurance  exchanges that would
 expand coverage  to millions of Americans.  Heritage Action for America, the advocacy arm of the
 Heritage Foundation , and the Tea Party-aligned group
FreedomWorks will push Congress to cut off funding for the
exchanges in the debate later this year over raising the debt
ceiling, the Washington-based groups said. The chairman of the
advocacy group Restore America’s Voice, Ken Hoagland, said he
plans to warn people through advertising about the
“dysfunctional” exchanges.  While opposition to the  health -care program is nothing new,
the tactics are changing. Rather than focusing on repealing the
law in Congress and the courts, two avenues that have failed so
far, the groups are aiming to prevent the cornerstone of the
legislation, the insurance exchanges, from succeeding. Their
goal is to limit enrollments, drive up costs, and make it easier
to roll back all or part of the law later.  “If you’re committed to making sure Obamacare doesn’t go
into effect, you have to focus on the expansion and on the
exchanges,” said Dan Holler, a spokesman for Heritage Action.
“Once you have people under a program, it’s really hard to
change that system no matter how badly it needs change.”  Democratic supporters of the health-care law said critics
are afraid that the measure will be a success and therefore are
out to prevent it.  ‘Sabotage’ Effort  “The message is they want to sabotage an effort that will
allow people to get affordable health insurance, all for
politics,” said Representative  Chris Van Hollen  of  Maryland .  House Republicans  have voted 37 times to repeal all or part
of the health-care law.  “House Republicans remain committed to full repeal of
government-centered Obamacare, and to ensuring working families
have access to quality patient-centered health-care options,”
said Rory Cooper, a spokesman for House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor  of  Virginia .  The insurance exchanges, which will go online in October to
provide coverage starting Jan. 1, are designed as Internet
marketplaces where people can compare prices for insurance and
find out if they qualify for subsidies or Medicaid. Having
effective exchanges will be important so people can comply with
the law’s mandate that all Americans get insurance or pay a fee.  Managing Cost  By creating a large pool of individual buyers, the
exchanges are intended to lower the cost of coverage by
spreading the risk for insurance companies. Opponents predict
that if there isn’t a large enough group or mostly high-cost
sick patients sign up, insurance plans won’t be affordable, said
Josh Withrow, legislative affairs manager for FreedomWorks.  “If enough people don’t get in to these exchanges, it’s
essentially going to be to be unfundable,” said Withrow. “They
need the healthy people in the exchanges.”  The opposition is likely to focus on people in about 20
states, including Texas and  Florida , where the governors opposed
the law and refused to set up their own state-run exchanges,
said Robert Blendon, a professor of health policy and political
analysis at  Harvard University .  In those states, the local government won’t be actively
educating the public and helping people through the process.  “They won’t campaign against a federal law, they are just
going to say that this isn’t going to work out for you,”
Blendon said. “They are going to say, ‘Don’t participate in
Obamacare.’”  Communities’ Role  The negative campaigning could also discourage businesses,
religious and civic groups from encouraging people to sign up,
Blendon said. “In an environment where there is a lot of
negativity around the law, businesses and civic groups won’t do
that.”  In  Massachusetts , that type of community support was
important for getting 98 percent of residents insured after the
state passed its own health-care law in 2006, said  Jonathan Gruber , a professor of economics at the  Massachusetts Institute
of Technology . The  Boston Red Sox  set up insurance education
booths at games and hosted health-insurance events. Gruber said
there was no serious opposition to the Massachusetts law.  Supporters of the law are seeking to counter the negative
campaigning with their own efforts to drive consumers to the
exchanges.  Grassroots Effort  A nonprofit group called Enroll America is trying to raise
money to finance a grassroots effort to make sure people are
aware of how to get coverage. The group was started by  Ron Pollack , the executive director of the consumer advocacy group
Families USA, in 2010 as a coalition of health insurers, drug
companies and other organizations. Its president, Anne Filipic,
is a former White House aide.  “People and families are going to be making decisions on
enrolling based on their own personal and family circumstances,
not politics,” said Pollack, adding that he expects Tea Party
members to join once they see the health-care subsidies they can
receive. “There just won’t be an effective effort to stop
people from getting enrolled.”  Kathleen Sebelius , secretary of the Health and Human
Services Department, which is implementing the law, has been
trying to raise money for Enroll America from companies and
organizations since March. Her solicitations have raised
scrutiny from some members of Congress who said it may be a
conflict of interest.  HHS spokeswoman Joanne Peters declined to comment,
referring inquiries to Pollack. A White House spokeswoman, Tara
McGuinness, didn’t respond to requests for comment.  ‘Educate Consumers’  Van Hollen  said people need information about the
exchanges.  “When you set up something new, it’s important to educate
consumers about steps that they should be taking,” he said.
“Republicans are trying to deny people that information.”  Heritage Action for America and FreedomWorks are also
working to block funding for the exchanges as part of the vote
on raising the  debt  ceiling, which could take place in
September. The once-routine act has become a vehicle for
congressional Republicans to demand spending cuts and policy
changes they can’t get through the normal legislative process.  In advance of that vote, FreedomWorks plans to ask its
millions of activists to contact their lawmakers and demand that
defunding the exchanges be the price for raising the debt
ceiling. FreedomWorks says it has 2 million e-mails and another
4 million connected to its Facebook page, though some might be
duplicates.  Congress has already rejected requests from the president
for more than $1 billion in funding to implement the exchanges.  “The average person will begin feeling the pain that
policy wonks and health experts have been warning about for
three years,” said Hoagland of Restore America’s Voice. “This
is all coming to roost very soon. Implementation itself will be
the most powerful argument for full repeal.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shannon Pettypiece in  New York  at 
 spettypiece@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan D. Salant in  Washington  at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 