-- Noyer Says Not Convinced About Merit of Negative Rates
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2013-05-29T10:34:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/ecb-s-noyer-says-he-s-not-convinced-about-merit-of-negative-rate.html
European Central Bank Governing
Council member Christian Noyer said he’s not convinced about the
merits of a negative deposit rate as policy makers debate how to
revive a moribund euro-area economy.  “We have prepared so that in case of a need we could
implement it,” Noyer said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television in Paris yesterday. “This is technically very
delicate. I’m personally not convinced there’s an interest in
doing that.”  The ECB cut its  benchmark rate  to a record low of 0.5
percent on May 2 and President Mario Draghi signaled the central
bank is ready to reduce borrowing costs further if needed. Noyer
said a negative deposit rate -- which would mean lenders would
pay to park excess cash with the ECB -- might prompt
institutions to raise their lending rates to offset that cost.  “There have been experiences in the past,” he said. “Not
all are convincing. In some cases it even tended to trigger an
increase in the rates of credit because the banks were
compensating for a loss they were getting on their deposits with
the central bank.”  Such an outcome would undermine one of the ECB’s main
goals, which is to revive lending by banks ravaged by a debt
crisis now in its fourth year. The  euro-area economy  shrank 0.2
percent in the three months through March, a sixth straight
contraction. Lending to  households and companies  fell for a 12th
month in April on an annual basis, the ECB said today.  Rate Corridor  Denmark is currently the only country in Europe with a
negative deposit rate. The central bank has held the rate below
zero since July last year to stem a capital inflow and protect
the krone’s peg to the euro.  The ECB narrowed the so-called rate corridor around its
 benchmark  on May 2 by leaving the deposit rate at zero and
reducing the marginal lending rate to 1 percent from 1.5
percent. If the ECB cuts the benchmark again, it will have to
decide whether to reduce the corridor further or move all rates,
taking the deposit rate below zero.  “No other major monetary zone has tried it,” Noyer said,
referring to a negative deposit rate.  The Bank of  France  governor joins fellow ECB policy maker
Joerg Asmussen in suggesting that the Frankfurt-based central
bank should avoid taking rates below zero if possible.  Some are “more open than others” on negative rates,
Asmussen said earlier this week in Berlin, adding that he is
among those who are “less open” to the idea.  Draghi’s View  Draghi said on May 6 that the ECB is ready to cut interest
rates further if needed.  “We will be looking at all the data that arrives from the
euro-area economy in the coming weeks,” he said. “If
necessary, we are ready to act again.”  Noyer also said that he expects financing in the euro area
to gradually shift to security markets from bank lending. Banks
account for about three quarters of lending in the 17-nation
currency zone, with the rest coming from markets. The
proportions are roughly the opposite in the U.S.  The shift toward market financing “is a general tendency
that has a little bit accelerated during the crisis,” Noyer
said. “Of course this is done relatively easily with big
corporates” though it’s “more difficult” with small
companies.  The Bank of France is in talks with lenders and other
central banks in the euro region about securitizing loans to
small businesses, part of a plan to improve the flow of credit.  “We’re trying to create a sort of conduit -- clear
transparent, plain vanilla -- that could be built on the
securitization of credit to small- and medium-sized enterprises,
and then sold to investors, used as collateral,” Noyer said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  