-- Eletrobras Rallies on Voluntary Dismissal Plan: Sao Paulo Mover
-- B y   D e n y s e   G o d o y
-- 2013-05-28T16:27:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/eletrobras-rallies-on-voluntary-dismissal-plan-sao-paulo-mover.html
Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras SA (ELET3) 
rose as its board approved a voluntary dismissal program for
employees that is part of an attempt to cut costs after the
government ordered the company to reduce rates.  Common shares of Eletrobras, as  Brazil ’s largest electrical
utility by sales is also known, climbed 2.3 percent to 6.26
reais at 1:04 p.m. in Sao Paulo. A close at that level would be
the highest since April 9. The  Ibovespa (IBOV)  equity benchmark added
0.3 percent.  The state-run utility announced in March a plan to cut
costs by as much as 30 percent to resume profitability.
President  Dilma Rousseff  ordered power companies last year to
lower rates as part of an effort to curb inflation and spur
growth in Latin America’s biggest economy.  “Investors welcome these efforts Eletrobras has been
making to fit into the new rules,” Sandro Fernandes, a trader
at brokerage Corval Corretora de Valores SA, said by phone from
 Belo Horizonte , Brazil.  Employees will be able to apply for the voluntary dismissal
program from June 10 to July 10, according to a regulatory
filing after the market closed yesterday. As many as 5,000
workers may be affected, Chief Executive Officer Jose da Costa Carvalho Neto told reporters yesterday in Brasilia before the
board meeting.  Eletrobras’s revenue will fall 25 percent this year to 25.6
billion reais ($12.4 billion) from 2012, according to the
average forecast of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  The measures announced by Rousseff last September include
revised conditions for the renewal of licenses expiring between
2015 and 2017. The program may reduce power rates in the country
by as much as 28 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Denyse Godoy in  Sao Paulo  at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  