-- Tepco Leads Drop in Utilities After Fukushima Bill
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a
-- 2013-05-28T07:41:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/tepco-leads-declines-in-utilities-after-report-on-fukushima-bill.html
Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501)  led a plunge
in Japanese utility shares after an upper house committee
approved a bill to allow more compensation claims against the
operator of the crippled Fukushima Dai-Ichi reactor.  Tokyo Electric, known as Tepco,  fell  6 percent to close at
612 yen on the Tokyo Stock Exchange, the lowest since May 15.
 Japan ’s upper house committee earlier approved a bill to allow
those affected by the March 2011 disaster to seek compensation
even after the expiry of a three-year statutory period, a
spokesman at the parliament said, confirming a Kyodo News
report. The Topix Electric Power & Gas Index declined 2.4
percent, while the Nikkei 225 Stock Average rose 1.2 percent.  Tepco faces more than 11 trillion yen ($108 billion) in
estimated costs, including compensation payments, after the
quake and tsunami two years ago caused three meltdowns and
radiation leaks, forcing about 160,000 people to evacuate. Tepco
had paid more than 2.2 trillion yen in compensation by the end
of April, it said last month.  Even with today’s decline, the stock has risen almost
threefold this year, the  best performer  among the 82 securities
in the MSCI World/Utilities Index. Four other regional power
companies from Japan are also among the best-performing
utilities on the index this year.  The upper house is due to discuss the bill at a lower house
plenary session in Tokyo tomorrow, the spokesman said.  Other Japanese power utilities also fell. Kansai Electric
Power Co., the country’s second-biggest power company, fell 0.4
percent, reversing earlier gains of as much as 7.5 percent.
Tohoku Electric Power Co. fell 4.5 percent to 1,046 yen. Chugoku
Electric Power Co. declined 4.3 percent to 1,338 yen.  Hokkaido Electric Advances  Hokkaido Electric Power Co. (9509)  was one of two utilities on the
17-member Topix electric index to advance today. Hokkaido
Electric rose 3.2 percent to 1,254 yen, while Shizuoka Gas Co.
gained 8 yen, or 1.1 percent, to 715 yen.  Kansai Electric and Hokkaido Electric plan to submit an
application to the Nuclear Regulation Authority to restart their
reactors as soon as they can after new safety requirements from
the country’s nuclear watchdog are put into effect in July,
spokesmen at the companies said today.  All but two of Japan’s 50 reactors are offline with no
official date set for restart as they are undergoing checks and
upgrading equipment to meet the new safety rules. Among the
country’s nuclear plant operators, Shikoku Electric Power Co.
and Kyushu Electric Power Co. earlier this month said they plan
to apply for restarts in July.  Views differ on the timing of restarts that would help the
power companies reduce fuel costs after they reported combined
losses of 1.6 trillion yen last fiscal year.  Shikoku Electric’s Ikata No. 3 reactor may be restarted in
October, the first among the idled units, Hidetoshi Shioda, a
Tokyo-based analyst at SMBC Nikko Securities Inc., wrote in
April. Japan may gradually restart the idled reactors after
January 2014, Hiroyuki Sakaida, an analyst at Goldman Sachs
Group Inc., wrote in a report earlier this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in  Tokyo  at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  