-- Merkel Says Euro Will Be Key Theme in German Election Campaign
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2013-05-28T19:32:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/merkel-says-euro-will-be-key-theme-in-german-election-campaign.html
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  signaled
that she will campaign on her defense of the euro in the debt
crisis as she seeks a third term in German elections on Sept.
22.  “We have to stand up for a strong euro, while making
demands” for economic reforms in euro-area countries, Merkel
said during a call-in  webcast  hosted by her Christian Democratic
Union party today. “I think there will be a lot of talk about
precisely this topic during the election campaign. It will be an
absolutely key point.”  Merkel was responding to a caller’s question about how she
intends to confront Alternative for Germany, the anti-euro party
founded to compete in this year’s election. Her Christian
Democratic bloc’s platform, to be unveiled on June 24, will
“set down a marker” by “making it clear once again that
Germany can only do well if  Europe  does well,” Merkel said.  The debt crisis that began in  Greece  in 2009 and German
contributions to financial aid for Greece, Ireland,  Portugal ,
 Spain  and Cyprus have dominated Merkel’s second term as she
balanced Germany’s pro-European tradition with public bailout
fatigue. Less than four months from the election date, polls
suggest the CDU will win the most votes, though the weakness of
her Free Democratic coalition partner may force her to look for
a new ally to secure another term.  Social Democrat  Peer Steinbrueck , Merkel’s first-term
finance minister and election challenger, is criticizing her
austerity-led crisis policy and portrays her as presiding over a
growing rich-poor gap in Europe’s biggest economy.  “Apart from the euro question, people are very concerned
that our society be a fair one, that the gap between those who
earn little and those who earn more doesn’t get bigger,” Merkel
said on the webcast.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  