-- Lessons on Moderation From the First Conservative
-- B y   C l i v e   C r o o k
-- 2013-05-28T22:21:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/lessons-on-moderation-from-the-first-conservative.html
The works of  Edmund Burke , an 18th-century British politician and political writer, are no longer
as widely read as they should be. Here’s hoping a fine new
 biography  by Jesse Norman, an academic philosopher and a
Conservative member of the U.K. Parliament, will help put that
right.  As Norman explains in “Edmund Burke: The First
Conservative,” his subject was not just an engaging man and an
unusually deep thinker for his time. He has good answers to
questions that politics still poses two and a half centuries
later.  You couldn’t call Burke’s political career a success. He
spent decades in Parliament, but held executive office only
briefly. He’s remembered for a  series  of essays, letters and
pamphlets on the great issues of his day. He argued in support
of the American colonists on the eve of the Revolutionary War.
Most famously, he warned that the French Revolution carried the
seeds of social and moral ruin. Events proved him right on both
counts, and on many others as well.  In his own time and down the years, Burke has often been
accused of inconsistency. Take his support for revolutionary
thinking in America but not in  France  -- what sense does that
make? Burke argued that they were different kinds of revolution.
The American colonists were resisting “a wrongful and arbitrary
assertion of power by the British government,” as Norman puts
it. Their grievance was specific, and their demands measured.
Above all they were acting to defend, not overthrow, American
society and institutions.  The French revolutionaries, in contrast, devoted themselves
to total revolution. They wanted to smash French society and
institutions and build them anew. The French Revolution, Burke
argued, was an assertion of absolute power in the name of
abstract principles. He opposed both, especially in combination.  Different Reactions  His suspicion of absolute power gives modern readers no
pause: That value is embedded in Western political thinking,
even if different systems have different ways of expressing it.
But Burke’s suspicion of abstract principles is more troublesome
today. In contemporary politics, above all in the U.S., people
of every ideological stripe claim constantly to be upholding
abstract principles -- the principle of individual liberty, of
the sanctity of life, of fairness in distribution, of property
rights, of equality before the law, of free speech, of national
security. Each of these principles, according to circumstances,
is elevated to precedence over all the rest, and failure to
acknowledge its pre-eminence puts dissenters beyond the pale.  Burke was the prototypical political moderate -- and his
moderation followed from his view that these and other abstract
principles are inevitably in tension. That this insight should
be controversial seems odd, yet it was and still is. Politics,
in Burke’s view, ought not to be about one principle simply
prevailing over others, even if it commands majority support. It
should be about balancing countervailing principles. No abstract
rule can determine how this balance should be struck.  People disagree partly because their values differ, and
that kind of disagreement may be irreducible. The solution is
not a simple matter of “let the majority rule” (which is a form
of absolute power). It’s deliberation, compromise and
accommodation based on intellectual modesty.  “It seems as if it were the prevalent opinion in Paris,”
Burke wrote, “that an unfeeling heart, and an undoubting
confidence, are the sole qualifications for a perfect
legislator. Far different are my ideas of high office. The true
lawgiver ought to have a heart full of sensibility. He ought to
love and respect his kind, and to fear himself.”  In Burke’s thinking, individuals can flourish only as
members of a flourishing society. Even though he was a social
reformer, the modesty he advocated demanded respect for
established norms and institutions. That’s what makes him, in
Norman’s estimation, “the first conservative.”  Lincoln Example  It’s true that this mindset can sometimes resist instant
redress of grievous wrongs. During the Civil War, for instance,
 Abraham Lincoln ’s highest priority, as Norman notes, was not to
end slavery but, echoing Burke, “to preserve and sustain his
nation -- that is, to save the Union.” He infuriated
abolitionists with what they saw as his too-measured approach.  Even Lincoln’s argument about emancipation rested on
conservative principles: In his Cooper Union  address  of 1860, he
went through the voting records of the founding fathers who
served in Congress to make the point that most had voted to
assert the federal government’s right to control slavery in
federal territories. “If we would supplant the opinions and
policy of our fathers in any case,” Lincoln argued, “we should
do so on evidence so conclusive, and argument so clear, that
even their great authority, fairly considered and weighed,
cannot stand.” Norman argues that “in celebrating Lincoln’s
leadership we are celebrating an ideal of the statesman given
canonical expression by Burke.”  Patience and restraint don’t come easily to modern
politics. Nor, in some quarters, does suspicion of technical
expertise -- another Burkean trait that follows from his views
on abstract principles and embedded social wisdom. Norman cites
U.S. involvement in  Vietnam , its policy toward  Russia  in the
1990s, the Iraq and Afghan wars, and the creation of  Europe ’s
single currency as expert projects gone wrong. The Burkean
perspective, he says, “offers an intellectual context within
which to analyze and understand the deeper currents of ethnic,
religious or ideological alliance.”  He’s right. Burke has a lot to teach us. Norman’s splendid
book is a good place to start.  (Clive Crook is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Clive Crook at  ccrook5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net . 