-- Mets Defeat Yankees 2-1 in Opener of Four-Game MLB Series
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2013-05-28T04:14:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/mets-beat-yankees-2-1-as-four-game-series-begins-in-new-york.html
Daniel Murphy’s eighth-inning single
gave the Mets a 2-1 win against the Yankees in the first of four
games this week between the New York teams.  A second straight victory lifted the Mets to 19-29, while
the Yankees dropped to 30-20 in Major League Baseball with their
second loss in a row.  “I know it’s the Yankees and they’re used to playing in
these games,” Mets Manager Terry Collins told reporters. “For
us, it’s a big win. The way we’ve been going, it’s huge.”  The Mets are fourth in the five-team National League East
division, 10 games behind the  Atlanta Braves , who lost 9-3 to
the  Toronto Blue Jays  last night. The  Boston Red Sox , who
defeated the Philadelphia Phillies 9-3 last night, lead the
American League East by one game from the Yankees.  The Yankees and Mets are playing four games in as many days,
starting with two at Citi Field before the series concludes at
Yankee Stadium. The Yankees won five of six games between the
teams last season and before last night had won 11 of 14
meetings in the series going back to 2010.  After five scoreless innings, the Yankees took the lead on
Jayson Nix’s run-scoring single. The sixth inning ended with
 Brett Gardner  leaping to make a catch above the wall that denied
Murphy a two-run home run.  “I was fairly angry after he took that from us,” Murphy
told reporters.  Home Run  David Wright , who had a two-out triple in the first inning,
led off the seventh for the Mets with a home run, his seventh of
the year and first this season at Citi Field.  With one out in the bottom of the eighth, a misfield by
Yankees catcher Chris Stewart allowed Mike Baxter to advance to
third and pinch-hitter Jordany Valdespin to reach second.
Stewart tagged Baxter at home plate on a throw by  Robinson Cano 
before Murphy’s single scored Valdespin to put the Mets up 2-1.  Bobby Parnell then pitched his sixth straight save and
eighth of the season to end the game.  Jonathon Niese, who led the Mets to their only win against
the Yankees last season, gave up one run on eight hits in seven
innings. Reliever Brandon Lyon took the win (2-2) after pitching
a scoreless eighth inning.  Yankees opener  Phil Hughes  struck out six and surrendered
one run on four hits in seven innings.  David Robertson  (3-1),
who gave up Murphy’s game-winning single, took the loss.  Matt Harvey (5-0) is due to start tonight for the Mets
against  Hiroki Kuroda  (6-3).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 