-- EU Advised by IMF Staff Paper to Harmonize Depositor Preference
-- B y   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 2013-05-28T07:21:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/eu-advised-by-imf-staff-paper-to-harmonize-depositor-preference.html
The European Union should give
depositors preference over other unsecured creditors when a bank
fails and standardize its approach across the 27-nation bloc,
according to International Monetary Fund’s staff memorandum.  The EU should introduce a preference for insured depositors
immediately to buttress investors’ confidence, the May 9
analysis seen by  Bloomberg News  said. A possible extension of
the preference to uninsured depositors should be introduced
after a phase-in period of several years to avoid driving up
banks’ funding costs.  European policy makers are developing rules to limit risks
to taxpayers in  bank failures . Under measures being considered
as part of a directive for recovery and resolution of  credit
institutions , regulators would be given statutory powers to
impose losses on unsecured creditors, while holders of secured
debt such as covered bonds would be protected.  “The note argues in favor of introduction in the European
Union of depositor preference,” said the IMF’s office
memorandum introducing the document. “There may be an
opportunity to influence the debate in  Europe  on the draft
Recovery and Resolution Directive.”  All EU nations are required to insure bank accounts with
100,000 euros (about $132,000) or less, a guarantee that was
called into question by euro-area deliberations on a bailout for
Cyprus. The 10 billion-euro Cypriot agreement ultimately spared
insured depositors, while imposing losses on uninsured
depositors, underscoring the need for new EU rules on who
suffers when a bank can’t meet all its obligations.  The IMF staff is planning a longer version of the 13-page
document to broaden the analysis of the issue beyond Europe. The
May 9 note was prepared by the IMF’s monetary and capital
markets department with the Legal Department.  Angela Gaviria, a Washington-based press officer at the
IMF, declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Esteban Duarte in Madrid  at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  