-- EU Carbon Price Expectations Plunge 47% in a Year, IETA Says
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2013-05-28T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/eu-carbon-price-expectations-plunge-47-in-a-year-ieta-says.html
European Union carbon price
expectations through 2020 have fallen 47 percent since last
year, the International Emissions Trading Association said.  Prices will average 10 euros ($13) a metric ton in the
period, according to an IETA survey of 73  members , the lobby
group that includes EON AG and  BP Plc (BP/)  said in an e-mailed
statement. That compares with 19 euros a ton last year, Jeff
Swartz, international policy director at Geneva-based IETA, said
yesterday by phone.  EU carbon fell 50 percent in the past year as regulators
struggled to deal with a glut in the market, the world’s biggest
by traded volume. An agreement by United Nations envoys in
December to extend the Kyoto Protocol and cap emissions for
another eight years until 2020 at climate-protection talks in
December in Doha failed to bolster demand, Dirk Forrister,
president of IETA, said in the statement.  “The agreement in Doha to extend the  Kyoto Protocol  did
little for long-term confidence,” he said. “Overlapping energy
and climate policies, at both EU and national level, are
suppressing the demand in the EU emissions trading system.
Without reform, confidence in the carbon market will continue to
be undermined.”  Four out of five respondents said that domestic or regional
policy initiatives will probably be more important than
international negotiations over the next five years, according
to IETA. Fifty-six percent of respondents expected EU prices
from 5 to 10 euros a ton, IETA said.  EU businesses face a patchwork of taxes, regulations and
the carbon market, raising concern that the bloc may struggle to
compete against other regions as emitters are confronted with
high administrative costs, Jonathan Grant, director in  London  of
the sustainability and climate change unit at
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an IETA member, said in the
statement.  ‘Still Relevant’  “Despite the collapse of carbon prices, it’s reassuring
that all regulated entities surveyed said that the carbon price
is still relevant to their capital-investment decisions, with
four out of five saying it is an important factor,” he said.  In  California , carbon allowances will probably average from
$10 to $20 a ton through 2015, according to the survey.  EU allowances for December rose 4.3 percent yesterday to
3.60 euros a ton on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  