-- EU to Deliver Verdict on Slovenia’s Plan to Avert Bailout
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2013-05-29T14:32:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/eu-to-deliver-verdict-on-slovenia-s-plan-to-avert-bailout.html
The European Commission said
Slovenia’s overhaul plan to avoid becoming the euro area’s sixth
bailout nation is on the right track and the country must be
ready to provide more capital for its ailing bank industry.  The European Union’s executive arm extended the budget
deficit deadline for Slovenia to 2015, according to a document
released in Brussels today. The commission said the country
needs a timetable by September for its banks to sell assets. The
EU also called for an independent review of its banking system
and recommended that an adviser be found for this by next month.  “Slovenia has substantially stepped up the pace of reforms
during the last couple of weeks,”  Olli Rehn , the EU’s Economic
and Monetary Affairs Commissioner told reporters in Brussels
today. This “should lead to a sustainable correction of
imbalances and to an improvement of  market sentiment . This
should help end the recession in Slovenia.”  Slovenia is struggling to fix a banking industry crippled
by  Europe ’s slump and an economy in its second  recession  since
2009. The government of Prime Minister Alenka Bratusek sent its
economic overhaul program to Brussels on May 9 to reassure its
EU partners Slovenia won’t need outside aid.  The former Yugoslav republic already tested investor
confidence with a $3.5 billion debt sale on May 2 to cover the
budget, repay debt and fund banks.  “Recent bond auctions bought the government time to push
on with its reform agenda and has probably removed the immediate
threat of bailout,” James Howat, a euro-region economist at
Capital Economics in  London , said in an e-mail. “But there is
still a lot of uncertainty.”  Rating Cuts  Slovenia’s effort to reassure investors has been hobbled by
reductions in its  credit rating . Moody’s Investors Service
lowered its grade to Ba1 on April 30 and  Fitch Ratings  cut its
score to BBB+ on May 17.  Standard & Poor’s  has maintained an A-rating with a stable outlook since Feb. 12, when it dropped the
level from A.  As the EU has deliberated on its options, Ljubljana’s
parliament passed an amendment on May 24 that adds a debt limit
to the constitution and limits the scope for referendums that in
the past prevented political leaders from carrying out overhauls
like pension changes.  A day earlier, legislators approved changes to insolvency
legislation designed to accelerate corporate restructuring and
aid the ailing banking industry.  Avoid Bailout  “Slovenia partly did some political tasks to avoid a
bailout,”  Jaromir Sindel , an economist at Citigroup Inc. in
 Prague , said in a note to clients yesterday. Still, the country
will probably “remain deeply monitored,” he said.  Under the government’s overhaul program, a newly created
bank asset-management company would take over 3.34 billion euros
($4.3 billion) of bad loans from Slovenian banks at a value of
1.1 billion euros.  State-controlled Nova Ljubljanska Banka d.d, the country’s
biggest bank, will transfer about 1.3 billion euros of non-performing loans starting next month, Chief Executive Officer
Janko Medja said on May 21.  “The government has taken measures to improve cost
competitiveness and started cleaning up the bank system,” Rehn
said.  A direct capital increase for banks would swell the budget
gap to 7.9 percent of gross domestic product, premier Bratusek
said in Brussels on May 22. The debt-to-gross domestic product
ratio will surge above 70 percent next year before settling at
55 percent, according to Finance Minister Uros Cufer.  ‘Looks Good’  The overhaul program “looks very good on paper,”, Abbas Ameli-Renani, an emerging-markets analyst at Royal Bank of
Scotland Plc in London, said in an e-mail today. “More serious
questions will be asked further down the line when progress on
the reform path is observed.”  The government’s forecast that the economy will return to
growth by next year “looks very optimistic,” Howat of  Capital
Economics  said.  The export-driven economy, which shrank an annual 2.3
percent last year, is set for two more years of contraction
before recovering in 2015, the commission said in a May 3
forecast. GDP will shrink 2 percent in 2013 and 0.1 percent next
year, it said.  Slovenia is preparing to sell state-company stakes
beginning in September, including phone company Telekom
Slovenije d.d., Nova Kreditna Banka Maribor d.d. and 13 other
companies in the first wave of sales to take place along with a
bank recapitalization, tax increases and spending cuts, Cufer
said in a May 16 interview.  The government may later consider selling insurer
Zavarovalnica Triglav d.d and its stake in energy company Petrol
Group d.d., he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  