-- EU Cites ‘Trade Justice’ in Tariff on China Solar Panels
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2013-05-28T19:21:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/eu-vows-tariffs-on-chinese-solar-panels-citing-trade-justice-.html
The European Union’s trade chief
vowed to tax Chinese solar panels next month in the largest EU
commercial dispute of its kind, while urging  China ’s exporters
to boost prices in return for an eventual end to the tariffs.  EU Trade Commissioner Karel De Gucht defended a proposal to
impose provisional duties on Chinese manufacturers of solar
panels for allegedly selling them in the 27-nation EU below
cost, a practice known as  dumping .  The EU levies, due by June 6, would be the preliminary
outcome of a dumping inquiry that the European Commission opened
in September and that German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said May
26 shouldn’t lead to permanent duties against China. The
commission is the 27-nation EU’s regulatory arm.  “The commission has a clear responsibility, and the
commissioner for trade has a clear responsibility, to follow
through in terms of trade defense on behalf of  Europe ,”  John Clancy , spokesman for De Gucht, told reporters yesterday in
Brussels. “It’s about trade justice and doing the right thing
for Europe’s workers and European companies.”  The dumping investigation covers 21 billion euros ($27
billion) of EU imports in 2011 of crystalline silicon
photovoltaic panels, and cells and wafers used in them. European
companies including  Solarworld AG (SWV) ,  Germany ’s largest maker of
the renewable-energy technology, are demanding punitive levies
to counter growing competition from China following similar U.S.
trade protection. Europe accounts for about three-quarters of
the global photovoltaic market.  Chinese Companies  The planned provisional duties will affect more than 100
Chinese companies and average 47.6 percent, an EU trade official
said on May 8. The dumping probe is due to end in early
December, by which time EU governments must decide whether to
impose “definitive” anti-dumping duties for five years.  The Chinese government and a group of EU nations including
the U.K. are fighting to prevent anti-dumping protection.
Clancy, noting that EU governments play only an advisory role at
the stage of provisional measures, cited the need for the
commission to act “in the face of very clear potential dumping
through an overcapacity in the Chinese market of solar panels.”  De Gucht  spoke to Chinese Vice Minister of Commerce Zhong Shan May 27 about the solar-panel case at a meeting in Brussels.
In an e-mailed statement afterward, De Gucht said China had
exerted “pressure” on “a number of EU member states” in
relation to the dumping inquiry and that he had made his
awareness of this  “very clear”  to Zhong.  ‘Specific Proposal’  De Gucht also said that he was ready to negotiate a
settlement to the solar-panel dispute and that China had yet to
make a “specific proposal” to this end. Clancy said any
negotiated accord would require minimum-price pledges by Chinese
exporters.  “We look forward to our Chinese partners engaging with us
in a sincere manner to try and find an equitable solution, which
would of course require price undertakings on behalf of the
Chinese in order to re-balance and re-create a level playing
field for European manufacturers of solar panels,” Clancy said
yesterday.  The EU is also threatening to impose a separate set of
duties on Chinese solar panels to counter alleged subsidies.
That’s the focus of a second investigation in which the deadline
for introducing any provisional anti-subsidy duties is Aug. 8
and for any definitive anti-subsidy measures is early December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  