-- Europe’s Youth Can’t Work Without Growth
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-05-28T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/europe-s-youth-can-t-work-without-growth.html
Europe  says it’s getting serious
about reducing an epidemic of youth unemployment, an effort as
laudable as it is overdue. German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  wasn’t exaggerating this week when he called the
phenomenon a catastrophe for the European Union.  As of March, 59 percent of Greeks, 56 percent of Spaniards,
and 38 percent of Italians and Portuguese ages 16-24 were
unemployed,  levels  that if allowed to fester will permanently
harm the generation that’s supposed to produce growth for an
aging continent. The anger caused could eventually tear the EU
and its currency apart.  Schaeuble was speaking at a conference with his French
counterpart,  Pierre Moscovici , on May 28 in Paris. Predictably,
they’ve dubbed their program a “New Deal for Europe,” after
 Franklin D. Roosevelt ’s Great Depression remedies of the 1930s.
Details are still dribbling out, but it’s already clear that
Europe’s youth program is no such thing.  The core of the effort is 6 billion euros ($7.7 billion)
carved out of the EU’s budget. Some of this money (it isn’t
clear how much) would go to the  European Investment Bank , which
would use it to back loans to small- and medium-size enterprises
in countries such as Greece and  Spain  in exchange for
commitments to hire and train young people. Some would go to
helping young people move to find training and jobs.  Germany  has
30,000 unfilled training vacancies, according to the country’s
labor minister. Germany is also organizing bilateral efforts to
export its vocational training expertise.  These are all good ideas. The EIB is already getting a 10
billion euro boost to its paid-in capital this year to foster
growth and employment in general, enough to increase annual
lending by 40 percent to 70 billion euros over the next three
years. The more, the better. Banks in  Greece , Spain and
elsewhere aren’t lending, so this kind of subsidy makes sense.  Yet the scale is still too small. Millions of new jobs are
needed, and this initiative falls far short. We fear Europe’s
politicians will use it to distract attention from their larger
failure to fix macroeconomic policy.  The EIB’s president, Werner Hoyer, sought at the same event
in Paris to lower expectations. He highlighted the core problem:
the cost of borrowing in the EU’s periphery. A small- or medium-size business in northern  Italy  pays 2.5 percentage points more
for a loan than its competitor just across the border in
 Austria , he said, creating “an unbeatable advantage” for the
Austrian company. Only a banking union will address this
problem.  Bear in mind, too, that youth unemployment in the most
afflicted economies isn’t new. It had been rising faster than
unemployment as a whole for decades before the crisis. It’s a
chronic problem, and dealing with it will require multiple
approaches -- German-style apprenticeships, Danish-style  active 
labor-market policies to promote training, British-style
deregulation and more.  The issue is complex. A recent  paper  by economists  David Blanchflower  and Andrew Oswald suggests, for example, that
Spain’s homeownership rate of 80 percent is a factor: Lack of
rental accommodation forces young people to live with their
parents rather than move to where the jobs are. (Germany,
Austria and  Switzerland  all have large rental markets and low
youth unemployment.) Tax incentives for Spaniards to rent out
their spare rooms might provide a quick remedy.  Better labor-market policies are all to the good, but it
will take more demand and faster growth to get youth
unemployment as low as it should be. If Schaeuble really wants
to help, the main things he should do haven’t changed: Reflate
Germany’s economy to create demand for exports from the
periphery, and form a true banking union.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 