-- Euro Bulls Rule in Germany Amid Merkel-Draghi Aplomb
-- B y   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-05-29T13:56:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/euro-bulls-rule-in-germany-amid-merkel-draghi-aplomb-currencies.html
German companies are more bullish on
the euro’s prospects over the next three months than at any time
since February, showing confidence in the ability of the
 European Central Bank ’s interest-rate cuts to spur the economy.  A survey by  Commerzbank AG (CBK) , the nation’s biggest lender
after Deutsche Bank AG, found that 26 percent of companies in
Europe’s largest economy expect the euro to advance against the
dollar, compared with 18 percent forecasting a decline. As
recently as March, the bears outweighed the bulls.  This month’s rate reduction by ECB President  Mario Draghi 
to a record 0.5 percent may already be paying dividends in
 Germany , where  Chancellor Angela Merkel  faces federal elections
in four months. The burgeoning optimism ratifies a report last
week from the Ifo institute that found German business
confidence rose in May for the first time in three months and
another from the Bundesbank predicting growth is gathering pace.  “Corporates were pretty negative on a three-month horizon,
but now they’ve turned positive,”  Lutz Karpowitz , a senior
currency strategist at Commerzbank in  Frankfurt , said in a phone
interview yesterday. Recently, there has been less “discussion
about a euro-zone breakup, and the market’s not concerned about
that anymore,” he said.  Broad Rally  The euro has appreciated against all 16 of the world’s most
widely traded currencies except for the Danish krone since the
end of March. It gained about 3 percent versus a basket of nine
developed-market currencies, according to Bloomberg Correlated-Weighted Indexes. Today, the euro snapped three days of declines
to rise 0.7 percent to $1.2945 as of 9:55 a.m. in  New York .  While Germany’s economy grew 0.1 percent in the  first
quarter  after a 0.7 percent contraction in the final three
months of 2012 as an unusually long winter damped construction
and investment, recent data show things may be picking up.  The Ifo institute said May 24 that its  business climate
index , based on a survey of 7,000 executives, climbed to 105.7
from 104.4 in April. That’s the first gain since February.
Economists predicted sentiment would remain unchanged, according
to the median of 44 forecasts in a  Bloomberg News survey .
Factory orders surged for a second month in March and  exports (GRBTEXMM) 
increased.  Bundesbank Optimism  “Economic activity is expected to improve markedly in the
second quarter of 2013,” the Frankfurt-based Bundesbank said in
its monthly report released May 21. There’s likely to be
“catch-up effects in response to the weather-related downturn
in construction activity during last winter,” it said.  Longer term, German companies are relatively pessimistic on
the 17-nation euro. Fifty-two percent of German companies in
Commerzbank’s survey expect the euro to weaken against the
dollar over the next year, compared with 47 percent last month.  The euro’s relative strength, which has seen it rise from
last year’s low of $1.2043 in July, may be a reason why a
separate survey found that more than 24,000 German companies say
demand for their goods is one of the biggest economic concerns
over the next 12 months.  Forty-one percent of companies polled by the industry and
trade chambers’ DIHK umbrella organization said they worry most
about export demand, the group said last week.  “Burgeoning hopes for a revival of foreign business from
the beginning of the year haven’t materialized so far,” the
DIHK said May 23 in an e-mailed report. “In the coming months,
exports aren’t likely to grow very dynamically.”  Exports Sag  Exports, adjusted for working days and seasonal changes,
rebounded 0.5 percent in March from a 1.2 percent drop in
February, the Federal Statistics Office said May 10.  The view of the German companies is similar with bank
analysts’ forecasts. The euro will climb 1 percent to $1.30 by
mid-year, before dropping to $1.27 by the end of 2013, according
to the median of 63 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Like the Commerzbank survey, analysts’ forecasts have been
getting more pessimistic. Two months ago, the median estimate
was for the euro to end the year at $1.29, while three months
ago it was for $1.30, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The ECB cuts its main  interest rate  to 0.5 percent on May
2, with Draghi saying at a press conference following the
decision that another reduction is possible.  Gross domestic
product  in the euro region fell 0.2 percent after a 0.6 percent
decline in the previous three months.  Merkel’s Euro  Merkel, who emerged as the key political policy maker
during the euro-area crisis that began in  Greece  in 2009, has
shifted her focus to longer-term challenges facing Europe and
Germany. She signaled yesterday that she will campaign on her
defense of the euro in the debt crisis as she seeks a third term
in German elections on Sept. 22.  “We have to stand up for a strong euro, while making
demands” for economic reforms in euro-area countries, Merkel
said during a call-in  webcast  hosted by her Christian Democratic
Union party. “I think there will be a lot of talk about
precisely this topic during the election campaign. It will be an
absolutely key point.”  Merkel was responding to a caller’s question about how she
intends to confront Alternative for Germany, the anti-euro party
founded to compete in this year’s election. Her Christian
Democratic bloc’s platform, to be unveiled on June 24, will
“set down a marker” by “making it clear once again that
Germany can only do well if Europe does well,” Merkel said.  Fed Stimulus  At the same time, speculation is growing that  Federal
Reserve  could start to cut back on its extraordinary stimulus
measures as the  U.S. economy  gains traction by reducing its bond
purchases under a program known as quantitative easing, or QE.  “We expect the Fed to begin tapering QE in the second half
of this year while the ECB may still need to ease policy further
given the weak growth outlook,”  Lee Hardman , a currency
strategist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in  London , said
in an interview yesterday.  The lender expects the euro to trade at $1.31 by the end of
June and to weaken to $1.26 by year-end, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  The  Dollar Index  climbed to the highest since July 2010 on
May 22 as Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said U.S. policy makers
could consider tapering their $85 billion of monthly bond
purchases if sustained economic improvement emerges.  Euro Options  Options markets also point toward euro declines longer
term. The one-year 25-delta risk-reversal rate, or the
difference between the price of an option giving the right to
sell the euro against the dollar versus the right to buy, is
1.64 percentage points. That’s up from this month’s low of 1.3
percentage points on May 3.7  Implied volatility from options trading shows there’s a 28
percent chance that the euro will weaken to below $1.25 in nine
months, versus a 9 percent likelihood it will drop to that level
in a month, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Carl Hammer , the chief currency strategist at Swedish
lender SEB AB, recommends buying options contracts that bet on
the euro weakening to a range of $1.18 to $1.25 in a year’s
time, and selling the currency if it climbs above $1.31.  “While we want to join the dollar bulls, patience is
required,” Stockholm-based Hammer said in a phone interview
yesterday. “We don’t know when the relative monetary policy
outlook will change in terms of the Fed tapering and the ECB
becoming more accommodative. We think euro-dollar will grind
lower but we prefer to be positioned through options.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  