-- Ex-AIG Chief Greenberg Moves to Toss ‘Dead’ Spitzer Suit
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n ,   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-05-29T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/ex-aig-chief-greenberg-moves-to-toss-dead-spitzer-suit.html
Former   American International Group
Inc. (AIG)  Chief Executive Officer Maurice “Hank” Greenberg asked
 New York ’s highest court to clear his name and dismiss what
remains of an eight-year-old lawsuit over an AIG accounting
scandal.  The argument yesterday before the Court of Appeals in
 Albany  came after New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman
said that while he wants to hold Greenberg personally liable, he
no longer seeks money damages. He wants to bar Greenberg, 88,
from working in the securities industry or serving as an officer
or director of a public company.  Greenberg has long argued that the lawsuit, originally
filed by then-Attorney General  Eliot Spitzer , is groundless.
Schneiderman contends that Greenberg and former AIG Chief
Financial Officer Howard Smith bear responsibility for a sham
transaction with General Reinsurance Corp. in 2000 and 2001 that
inflated AIG’s loss reserves by $500 million.  “What we are looking for is to protect the markets of New
York from fraud, to hold him accountable,” state Solicitor
General Barbara Underwood told the court.  Greenberg, who served in World War II and in  Korea , has
squared off against three  attorneys general  in his fight to
defeat the lawsuit. Spitzer’s pursuit of the case forced
Greenberg to step down from AIG in 2005 after he spent four
decades building AIG into the world’s largest insurer.  New Ammo  Greenberg argues he got new ammunition on April 10 after a
federal judge in New York approved a $115 million settlement of
a class-action lawsuit, which resolved claims by AIG
shareholders against Greenberg, Smith and other defendants.  “This case has entirely changed,” Greenberg attorney
 David Boies  told the appeals court. “What they’re trying to do
is keep this case alive so they can delve into it more after
eight years of not finding anything.”  Schneiderman opposed the settlement as unfair and
inadequate, saying losses to shareholders were $6.6 billion. He
argued that a prior appeals court ruling meant that approval of
the class-action settlement would preclude the state from
obtaining damages. In dropping the damages claim, the state
cited the settlement and the desire to “avoid further delay.”  Greenberg argues that by dropping its pursuit of money
damages, the lawsuit is now fatally flawed. New York “long ago
abandoned” any claim for an injunction, such as a bar from the
securities industry, said Boies, of law firm Boies Schiller &
Flexner LLP, in an April 26 letter to the appeals court.  Tactical Change  Schneiderman’s change in tactics is a “transparent attempt
to resuscitate a case that is dead,” Boies said, calling the
continued pursuit of case “simply a meritless waste of the
state’s judicial resources.” Greenberg consented to a U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission injunction barring fraud or
other violations of securities laws, which is broader than what
the state seeks, he wrote.  Underwood said the attorney general’s office never waived
its right to seek an injunction against Greenberg and Smith. The
state may also seek disgorgement of ill-gotten gains, she said.  Judge  Robert Smith  asked if the state is seeking a “moral
victory.”  “What’s going to happen to the citizens of New York if
this case gets dismissed that you’re protecting them from?”
Smith said.  Fraud Responsibility  “One thing that will happen to the citizens of New York is
that they will see that it is possible to avoid responsibility
for fraud,” Underwood said.  The $115 million settlement approved last month is not the
only recovery for AIG shareholders. In all, they have recovered
about $1 billion, said  Alan Kopit , an attorney at Hahn Loeser &
Parks LLP, representing Ohio public pension funds.  Greenberg is getting support from high-powered allies.
Former New York governors Republican  George Pataki  and Democrat
 Mario Cuomo  said in a Wall Street Journal editorial this month
that the case is “a waste of time and money.” Pursuing
Greenberg is “morally wrong” given his military service,
philanthropy and “vital role in advancing U.S. interests in
global trade and national security,” they wrote.  Complete Shift  In an interview on Bloomberg Television, Pataki said the
state’s case was initially brought to protect AIG shareholders
and now Schneiderman has made a “complete shift” in seeking
the bans against Greenberg and Smith.  “That should have been the end of this,” Pataki said
about the settlement. “Clearly it was over. Then out of the
blue, the attorney general completely changes the relief they’re
seeking from damages to help shareholders, which was a
ridiculous lawsuit in the first place.”  Schneiderman defended the decision to go forward.  “Three consecutive attorneys general have pursued this
case because a commitment to equal justice demands personal
accountability for people who commit fraud no matter how rich or
well-connected they may be,” Schneiderman spokesman  Damien LaVera  said in a statement.  Spitzer sued Greenberg under the Martin Act, a 92-year-old
law used by prosecutors to probe investment frauds, Ponzi
schemes and other white-collar crime. New York’s attorney
general can bring civil or criminal actions under the law, while
district attorneys only use it in criminal cases.  Important Precedent  A court of appeals ruling could set an important precedent
that would help define the attorney general’s power under the
law, said Anthony Michael Sabino, a law professor at the Tobin
School of Business at  St. John’s University  in New York.  “You need to hear from the court of appeals because you
need to hear for the future what is the scope of the AG’s
powers,” Sabino said. For business leaders, “it brings
certainty as far as establishing whether or not the AG would be
justified in going after them in years to come.”  Schneiderman may want to strengthen his office’s power
under the Martin Act, said  Michael Weinstein , a former Justice
Department lawyer at Cole, Schotz, Meisel, Forman & Leonard P.A.  The state has to balance the payment to shareholders
against its power to bring future cases and punish wrongdoers,
Weinstein said.  Schneiderman “wants to stay in the fight,” he said.
“When he says we want to hold them personally responsible, it’s
a wink and a nod to the court saying just because they have
somebody pay doesn’t mean they get off the hook, and we want to
be able to pursue people personally.”  Gen Re Transaction  The case stems from two reinsurance transactions that the
state alleges were approved by Greenberg and Smith to conceal
negative financial results. One was a deal with  Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) ’s General Reinsurance Corp. used to reverse a
decline in loss reserves at AIG.  AIG said on Oct. 26, 2000, that premiums increased in the
third quarter of that year as loss reserves for claims fell.
Days later, Greenberg called Ronald Ferguson, Gen Re’s CEO at
the time, and proposed the reinsurance transaction with Gen Re,
the attorney general said in a court filing. The two agreed on
the essential terms of the agreement in a November phone call,
according to the state.  In March 2005, amid investigations by regulators, Greenberg
stepped down as CEO of AIG, which he had led since 1967. That
month, New York-based AIG said the transaction with Gen Re was
improper. AIG restated its earnings, lowering them by $3.4
billion, and paid $1.6 billion to settle claims by regulators.  The fraud cost AIG shareholders $544 million to $597
million, according to a federal judge who presided over a
criminal fraud trial in Hartford,  Connecticut .  Fraud Conviction  Four former Gen Re executives, including Ferguson, and one
from AIG were convicted in 2008 at that trial. In 2011, they won
reversal of their convictions. Last year, prosecutors agreed to
drop charges under deferred prosecution agreements, and the
executives admitted “aspects” of the deal were fraudulent.  Spitzer sued in May 2005. In October 2010, Justice Charles Ramos of New York State  Supreme Court  in  Manhattan  denied
Greenberg’s and Smith’s bid to dismiss the case, saying there is
“clearly evidence in the record that connects both defendants
to the improper aspects of the Gen Re transaction, and highly
suggest their knowledge or participation.”  The case is State of New York v. Greenberg, 401720-2005,
New York state Supreme Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ; David Voreacos in Newark,  New
Jersey , at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ; Chris
Dolmetsch in New York at 
 dolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  