-- Ex-Guatemala President Portillo Enters Not Guilty Plea
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-05-29T00:07:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/ex-guatemalan-president-portillo-enters-not-guilty-plea.html
Former Guatemalan president Alfonso Portillo pleaded not guilty in a U.S. court to charges he
embezzled and laundered tens of millions of dollars through U.S.
banks while in office.  Portillo entered the plea today in a hearing before U.S.
District Judge Robert Patterson in federal court in Manhattan
after being extradited to New York on May 24.  Portillo, 61, was president of the Central American nation
from January 2000 to January 2004. He was arrested in 2010 in
 Guatemala  on an indictment filed by federal prosecutors in New
York in 2009. If convicted, Portillo faces as much as 20 years
in prison, according to a statement from the office of U.S.
Attorney Preet Bharara in Manhattan.  In May 2011, a three-judge panel in Guatemala acquitted
Portillo in an embezzlement trial in that country. An appeals
court in Guatemala upheld the court’s judgment of not guilty, a
lawyer for Portillo said today.  Glenn MacTaggart, a lawyer for Portillo, said outside court
that Portillo’s team is working to present a bail proposal. They
asked Patterson for a hearing on bail in 10 to 14 days.  ‘Clear Overreaching’  MacTaggart, reading from a prepared statement, said the
prosecution is “a case of clear overreaching” by the
government and that the allegations have little connection to
the U.S. MacTaggart said Portillo is fighting his extradition
before a federal appeals court in  New York  and expects to be
found not guilty if forced to face the charges.  Portillo, who is in federal custody, appeared in court
today wearing a dark suit and tie. He was aided by a Spanish-language translator.  Prosecutors claim that in 2000 and 2002 Portillo stole $2.5
million provided by  Taiwan ’s government to buy books for school
libraries. He stole $3.9 million from Guatemala’s Ministry of
Defense, prosecutors claim. And from 2000 through 2003 he
misappropriated money from the publicly financed reserves of
Credito Hipocaterio Nacional, a Guatemalan national bank, the
U.S. said.  Portillo diverted the money through banks in Miami to
European banks and to an investment account to Luxembourg,
prosecutors said.  David Rosenfield, one of Portillo’s lawyers, told Patterson
that his client has “heart issues.” He asked that a vent in
Portillo’s cell be covered to block the excessive air
conditioning he said is making his client sick.  The case is U.S. v. Portillo, 09-cr-1142, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  