-- Mexican Bonds Slump on Reduced Economic Prospects; Peso Declines
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2013-05-28T17:20:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/mexican-bonds-slump-on-reduced-economic-prospects-peso-declines.html
Mexican  government bonds  fell,
pushing yields to their highest level in almost four months, as
speculation that the  Federal Reserve  will curtail a stimulus
program diminished the Latin American country’s prospects.  Yields on peso-denominated benchmark debt due in December
2024 rose six basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 5.19
percent at 12:10 p.m. in Mexico City, the highest level on a
closing basis since Jan. 31, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The peso declined 0.7 percent to 12.5615 per  U.S.
dollar , paring its gain in 2013 to 2.3 percent.  While data this month showed that Mexico’s economy grew at
the slowest pace last quarter since the 2009 recession, reports
today indicating a boost in U.S.  consumer confidence  to a five-year high and increased home prices stoked speculation that the
Fed will reduce asset purchases that have helped fuel demand for
Mexico’s higher-yielding assets.  The U.S. reports are spurring “just more of the noise
about maybe the Fed starting to taper sooner rather than
later,”  Kevin Daly , a  money manager  who oversees $12 billion in
emerging-market assets at Aberdeen Asset Management Plc, said in
a telephone interview from London. “In theory, stronger U.S.
macro should be good for the Mexican peso, but that’s going to
also lead to rising U.S. Treasury yields, which could also be
slightly negative for Mexican bonds. It’s a bit of a mixed
message for Mexico.”  U.S. Treasury 10-year note yields rose today to their
highest level since April 2012. Mexico’s bonds are historically
the most correlated in Latin America to U.S. Treasuries.  Peso Bonds  Demand for peso assets has fallen since Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last week that policy makers may cut the pace of
bond purchases at the next few policy meetings if they see
indications of sustained growth. Foreign investors, facing
 interest rates  in the U.S. and Japan at virtually zero, had been
pouring money into peso bonds to profit from higher yields.  Banco de Mexico policy makers, which cut rates in March for
the first time since July 2009, will reduce the 4 percent
benchmark rate by 25 basis points in September and October,
Credit Suisse Group AG analysts said in a research note to
clients. The bank previously called for a one-time cut of 50
basis points in July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  