-- Facebook Bolstering Efforts to Address Hate Speech
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k   a n d   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2013-05-29T20:19:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/facebook-to-bolster-efforts-to-deal-with-hate-speech-on-website.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  plans to bolster
efforts to keep hate speech off its pages amid complaints the
site allowed content that encouraged violence against women,
prompting companies to suspend advertisements.  Nissan Motor Co.’s U.K. unit and lender  Nationwide Building
Society  halted some Facebook ads that could have appeared next
to offensive content after the group  Women, Action, & the Media 
criticized the social network’s response to complaints.  Menlo
Park , California-based Facebook  said  it will review guidelines
for evaluating content that may violate its standards, and will
update training for teams that review reports on hate speech.  Social-media services have surged in popularity by giving
users leeway in posting comments, photos and videos. That
freedom can backfire if members’ content pushes the boundaries
of good taste, potentially turning off advertisers. The Simon
Wiesenthal Center faulted Twitter Inc. in a report this month,
saying that the microblogging service has helped spur growth in
online forums for hate and terror.  “This should be a big concern for Facebook,” said
Shailendra Pandey, an advertising analyst at Informa Telecoms &
Media in  London . The companies pulling advertising “are big
brands and they bring in a lot of revenue each quarter.”  Facebook had $1.25 billion in advertising  revenue  in the
first quarter of 2013, about 85 percent of its total sales. The
shares fell 3.2 percent to $23.32 at the close in  New York .  Violent Images  “In recent days, it has become clear that our systems to
identify and remove hate speech have failed to work as
effectively as we would like, particularly around issues of
gender-based hate,” Facebook said in a blog post yesterday.
“We need to do better -- and we will.”  Women, Action, & the Media, a group that looks at gender
bias, said in a  letter  last week that Facebook had “groups,
pages and images that explicitly condone or encourage rape or
domestic violence or suggest that they are something to laugh or
boast about.”  As part of its effort to get the content removed, the group
started an online campaign to pressure companies whose ads ran
next to the images, some of which were of women who were
indicated to have been beaten or raped. The effort included
messages on Twitter and e-mails.  Increasing Accountability  In tweets posted on the group’s website, companies
including Zipcar Inc., Zappos.com Inc. and Unilever Plc’s Dove
brand responded by saying they were working with Facebook to
resolve the issue. They didn’t pull their advertising, according
to the group. The site reported that Nationwide, Nissan U.K. and
a number of smaller advertisers did suspend ads.  Advertisers that suspend campaigns with Facebook will
return when the matter is resolved because it’s an important
medium for the industry, said Pandey of Informa Telecoms.  WPP Plc (WPP)  Chief Executive Officer  Martin Sorrell  has said his
company, the world’s largest advertiser, spends about $270
million a year on Facebook.  Facebook plans to set up more formal communications with
representatives of women’s groups and other organizations to
speed up its response to questions about possibly offensive
content. The company also said it will increase accountability
for creators of content that is “cruel or insensitive,” even
if the content doesn’t qualify as hate speech.  Nissan Dialogue  Nissan U.K. temporarily halted Facebook advertisements with
demographic targeting that potentially could have shown its
promotions next to the controversial content, according to
Travis Parman, a spokesman for Nissan, which is based in
Yokohama, Japan. Nissan wanted to have “dialogue with
Facebook” to determine how its ads may have been displayed next
to the content, he said. The automaker’s U.S. unit isn’t
currently using the type of ad targeting in question on
Facebook, he said.  Advertisements for  Unilever (UNA) ’s Dove brand, Amazon U.K.,
American Express and  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY) ’s pay-TV
brand Sky also showed up next to offensive images, according to
pictures on the Women, Action, & the Media website.  “I don’t think this will hurt Facebook because in the end
I think advertisers are kind of understanding that things might
appear in an online environment that are unsavory, said Chris Hirst, CEO at advertising agency Grey London, whose  clients 
include HSBC Holdings Plc,  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) , and  Puma SE (PUM) ,
according to its website.  ‘‘I think Facebook has been quite conscious of the
environment, irrespective of advertisers, but we do add an extra
layer of pressure,’’ he said.  Nationwide said it suspended all Facebook advertising and
that company ads that appeared next to images depicting violence
against women were linked to a user’s Facebook profile and not
the pages with violent images.  ‘‘Through the use of verification software, we do actively
seek to ensure this type of page, or sites with suspect content,
do not appear alongside our advertising,’’ the company said in a
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Womack  in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net ;
Kristen Schweizer in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net . 