-- Fast Retailing Hasn’t Decided to Join Bangladesh Safety Pact
-- B y   Y u k i   Y a m a g u c h i   a n d   M a s a h i r o   W a t a n a b e
-- 2013-05-28T03:01:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/fast-retailing-hasn-t-decided-to-join-bangladesh-safety-pact.html
Fast Retailing Co. (9983) , Asia’s largest
clothing retailer, hasn’t decided if it will join a safety pact
to improve fire and building safety in Bangladesh following the
country’s worst industrial disaster.  The agreement has been supported by other retailers
including  Hennes & Mauritz AB (HMB)  and  Inditex SA. (ITX)  The measure comes
in the wake of collapse of the Rana Plaza factory building that
killed at least 1,127 people a month ago and as more than 1
million consumers signed petitions urging companies to join the
program.  “We are still considering if the company is going to join
the pact, but we haven’t made the decision yet,” Naoto
Miyazawa, a Tokyo-based spokesman for Fast Retailing, said in a
telephone interview. Fast Retailing has no timeline for making a
decision to join the pact, Miyazawa said.  Fast Retailing, the seller of Uniqlo, doesn’t plan to sign
the accord “at this time” and will opt for its own safety-improvement plan for garment makers it hires, the Wall Street
Journal reported earlier, citing Yukihiro Nitta, head of Fast
Retailing’s Corporate Social Responsibility group.  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  has said it won’t agree to the pact
“at this time” and will instead make public safety inspections
at all of its suppliers’ authorized factories in Bangladesh.
Some institutional investors are beginning to express concern
about the safety issue, including the Illinois State Board of
Investment, which owns shares of Wal-Mart.  Inditex, Hennes & Mauritz and Fast Retailing are controlled
by the richest men in the apparel retailing industry,  Amancio
Ortega ,  Stefan Persson  and Tadashi Yanai, according to the
Bloomberg Billionaires Index.  Ortega is Spain’s richest man with a fortune of $53.7
billion, Persson is the chairman of H&M and has a net worth of
$25.5 billion. Yanai is Japan’s wealthiest man with $18.8
billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuki Yamaguchi in Tokyo at 
 yyamaguchi10@bloomberg.net ;
Masahiro Watanabe in Tokyo at 
 mwatanabe47@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  