-- Fidelity National to Buy LPS in $2.9 Billion Deal
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2013-05-28T20:38:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/fidelity-national-to-buy-lender-processing-in-2-9-billion-deal.html
Fidelity National Financial Inc. (FNF) , the
largest U.S. title insurer, agreed to acquire its former unit,
 Lender Processing Services Inc. (LPS) , to expand in the business of
providing and analyzing mortgage data.  The cash-and-stock deal values LPS at $33.25 per common
share, or about $2.9 billion, Jacksonville, Florida-based
Fidelity National said today in a statement. LPS, also based in
Jacksonville, closed at $29.11 on May 22, before it was first
reported that Fidelity National was in talks to acquire the
firm.  Fidelity National is expanding in housing-linked businesses
amid a recovery in the U.S. real estate market. LPS has
technology that’s used by lenders throughout the mortgage
process, from origination to foreclosure.  “This combination will create a larger, broader, more
diversified and recurring revenue base for FNF and makes us the
nation’s leading title insurance, mortgage technology and
mortgage services provider,” Fidelity National Chairman William Foley said in the statement.  LPS says its technology is used by lenders to handle about
50 percent of all U.S. mortgages by dollar value. The firm’s
biggest customers are Wells Fargo & Co. and  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM) , according to a regulatory filing.  “The old way in which banks addressed their mortgage
businesses, which was heavy on paper and people, is being
replaced with technology,”  Mark Palmer , an analyst at BTIG LLC,
said by phone. “Those functions are being outsourced and that’s
where LPS comes in.”  Stock Issuance  Fidelity National plans to pay for LPS half in cash and
half by issuing about 57.4 million shares of stock to LPS
shareholders. The terms could change based on FNF’s stock price,
and the deal will probably be completed in the fourth quarter,
according to the statement.  In a 2006 reorganization, Fidelity National split off a
business called Fidelity National Information Services Inc. That
entity gave investors half a share of LPS common stock for each
Fidelity National Information share they owned in 2008. LPS
shares closed at $33 on July 2, 2008, the day of the spinoff.  “We have significant experience and familiarity with LPS
from our previous ownership of these businesses,” Foley said.  The transaction is expected to boost Fidelity National’s
 earnings  by 11 percent compared with 2012, Foley said. After the
deal is completed, Fidelity National will combine its
ServiceLink unit with LPS in a new holding company and sell a 19
percent stake in that business to  Thomas H. Lee Partners  for
$381 million, according to the statement.  Termination Fee  Under the terms of the deal, LPS is permitted to solicit
other buyers through July 7. If LPS receives a better offer and
terminates the deal during that period, there is a 1.25 percent
breakup fee, according to the statement.  LPS  gained  1.8 percent to $33.49 at 4:15 p.m. in New York.
Fidelity National slipped 0.6 percent to $26.03, trimming its
gain this year to 11 percent.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and JPMorgan were financial advisers
on the deal and provided committed financing to Fidelity
National. LPS’s bankers were  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and Goldman
Sachs Group Inc.  Title insurers like Fidelity National and  First American
Financial Corp. (FAF)  use their records and public documents to verify
a seller is a property’s true owner and that it is free from
liens. The companies collect a premium at the closing of the
purchase and pay costs that may arise if someone disputes the
new owner’s right to the property.  Dining, Cars  Fidelity National has invested in businesses ranging from
restaurants to auto parts. It announced an agreement in 2012 to
buy J. Alexander’s Corp. and take its dining unit public in a
deal valued at $72 million. It also agreed to buy restaurant
chain O’Charley’s Inc., valuing the target company at more than
$200 million.  Thomas H. Lee has been involved with the companies before.
In 2005, an investment group led by Thomas H. Lee and Texas
Pacific Group purchased a 25 percent stake in Fidelity National
Information, according to a statement on Thomas H. Lee’s
website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  