-- FIFA Investigates Use of Soccer Development Grant to Gabon
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f   a n d   A n t o i n e   L a w s o n
-- 2013-05-28T23:35:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/fifa-investigates-use-of-soccer-development-grant-to-gabon.html
A  FIFA  appointee is investigating the
use of a $548,262 grant paid to Gabon’s defense ministry to
promote soccer as the sport’s ruling body tightens regulations
on managing development funds.  Dieudonne Ndoumbou, who was made acting president of a
committee overseeing Gabon soccer last month, said by telephone
he’s looking into what happened to the money that should have
been used to build a  training center in Libreville , the capital.
FIFA said in an e-mail the grant was approved in 2005 and it
plans to check on the progress of the unfinished project on a
visit in June or July.  Eight officials in Gabon’s defense and sports ministries
declined to comment on what the grant was used for, saying they
didn’t want to risk losing their jobs. Alphonse Bandah, a
communication ministry official, referred a request for comment
to Justice Minister Ida Reteno Assonouet, who declined to be
interviewed for this story.  Not-for-profit FIFA, which in March reported revenue of
$1.16 billion for 2012, distributes some income from World Cup
television and sponsorship rights sales to develop soccer,
mostly in poorer nations. About one-third of some 500 projects
since 1999 have been in  Africa .  Ndoumbou, a former referee, said he was doing an inventory
to see why the training center wasn’t built.  “Why isn’t it finished? It’s a long story,” Ndoumbou
said. “If you know Africa, some cultures in Africa, you will
understand why it’s not finished. We have to check bit-by-bit
what happened.”  Unusual Choice  He said it was unusual for FIFA to award the grant to the
defense ministry.  “Normally, it must be a private company,” Ndoumbou said.  FIFA said in an e-mail the Gabon soccer federation had
picked the contractor.  Zurich-based FIFA has handed out about $2 billion in
development funds since 1999 during Sepp Blatter’s presidency.
It plans to increase regulation of the grants as part of reforms
following the ousting or resignation since 2011 of at least four
officials, including Blatter’s predecessor Joao Havelange, amid
ethics investigations.  From July 1, FIFA will require national federations
receiving grants to put  contracts of more than $50,000  out to
tender and file audited annual accounts.  The Gabon grant was awarded during the 41-year leadership
of President Omar Bongo. He died in 2009, and was replaced by
his eldest son Ali Bongo.  The main contractor was Genie Militaire Steyr Daimler Puch
Gabon, according to FIFA’s data. Genie Militaire is French for
military engineering.  Steyr Daimler Puch Spezialfahrzeug GmbH  is
a Vienna-based military vehicle maker.  Military Vehicles  Steyr Daimler, which sold vehicles to Gabon in 2003 and
2004, wasn’t involved in the soccer project and hasn’t received
any money from FIFA, said Rob Doolittle, a spokesman for parent
company  General Dynamics Corp. (GD)   In December 2008,  Transparency International France 
petitioned French authorities to investigate allegations that
Omar Bongo and two other African leaders had embezzled public
funds. Police investigations showed Bongo and his relatives
owned 39 apartments in  France , many of them in the wealthiest
district of Paris, and operated 70 bank accounts, according to
the anti-corruption organization.  Gabon’s Council of Ministers, whose chairman was Bongo,
called the allegations a “despicable campaign of slander and
insults” by the French public and media against the president.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net ;
Antoine Lawson in Libreville at 
 ankolo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  