-- Fireman’s Fund Hires AIG’s Celmer for High Net Worth Unit
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-05-28T23:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/fireman-s-fund-hires-aig-s-celmer-for-high-net-worth-unit.html
Allianz SE (ALV) , Europe’s largest insurer,
said its Fireman’s Fund unit in the U.S. hired Jennifer Celmer
from American International Group Inc. to lead sales of personal
insurance products to wealthy individuals.  “Celmer brings a deep and broad expertise in high-net-worth underwriting,” Fireman’s Fund said yesterday in a
statement.  Fireman’s Fund is among insurers that have been seeking to
expand businesses that cater to the richest clients by
protecting yachts, fine art and wine collections. The unit of
Munich-based Allianz, which also sells coverage to business
clients, hired Erik Matson from AIG as commercial insurance
field executive this month.  Matson was AIG’s regional president of the Americas for
small and medium commercial lines, Fireman’s Fund said. Celmer
worked for 12 years at New York-based AIG’s private client
group, and most recently led underwriting in the eastern zone,
according to the statement. She was previously an underwriter at
 Chubb Corp. (CB) , Fireman’s Fund said.  Fireman’s Fund hired Robert Haibi last year to oversee
personal-lines distribution, focusing on the high-net-worth
market. He was previously a senior vice president at AIG’s
property-casualty unit.  Jim Ankner, an AIG spokesman, didn’t respond to an e-mailed
request for comment.  Navigators Group Inc. (NAVG)  hired Glen Bronstein from AIG as
chief claims officer for its U.S. underwriting agency
subsidiary, New York-based Navigators said yesterday in a
statement. He had worked at AIG for 19 years.  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  hired at least
four AIG executives to lead a push into commercial insurance.
They include David Bresnahan, David Fields, and Peter Eastwood.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  