-- Florida NCAA Basketball Surprise Offers Bonds: Muni Deals
-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e   a n d   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-05-28T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/florida-ncaa-basketball-surprise-offers-bonds-muni-deals.html
Florida  Gulf Coast University, whose
men’s basketball team became the first 15th seed to make the
National Collegiate Athletic Association tournament’s regional
semifinals, is shopping $30 million of debt to finance student
housing.  The  Fort Myers  school, a member of the state university
system of Florida, is selling the bonds through its financing
corporation. It plans to build a 520-bed facility and parking
deck, expected to open in August 2014, according to bond
documents. The construction would bring the number of students
able to live in the housing system to 4,756.  The tax-exempt debt, with a final maturity of 2043, will be
backed by lease payments from the housing system. The
competitive deal is set to take place tomorrow, said Steve
Magiera, vice president of administrative services and finance.  “We expect to have a good reception,” Magiera said from
Fort Myers. Officials anticipate overall borrowing costs around
3.88 percent, he said.  Fitch Ratings  ranks the debt A+, fifth-highest. It says the
university, which opened in 1997 and has about 12,240
undergraduates, sees “high student demand for auxiliary
services.”  The campus has capacity for as many as 22,000 students,
Magiera said.  Debt from Florida issuers is earning 1.3 percent this year,
compared with 1.1 percent for the entire municipal market,
 Standard & Poor’s  indexes show.  The school’s basketball team, dubbed “Dunk City” during
its run in the tournament that ended last month, defeated
Georgetown, a No. 2 seed, and San Diego State, a No. 7 seed. The
Eagles lost to the Gators of the University of Florida.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net 
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  