-- Fonterra Tips N.Z. Milk Rebound as Global Supply Growth Slows
-- B y   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n   a n d   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2013-05-29T02:32:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/fonterra-raises-milk-payout-forecast-on-slowing-global-output.html
Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd., the
world’s largest dairy exporter, expects that  New Zealand  milk
production will recover next year after the worst drought in
three decades curbed output in the past four months.  Milk collection will increase between 2 percent and 3
percent in the 2013-2014 season ending May 31, Chief Executive
Officer Theo Spierings said in a phone interview today after the
Auckland-based company forecast a 21 percent jump in payments to
farmers. Output probably fell 1 percent to 1.5 percent, he said.  Whole milk  powder  prices almost doubled this year, reaching
a record in April, as New Zealand’s most widespread drought
curbed supply. In the same month, global dairy  costs  surged to
the highest since 2007, helping to boost world food prices,
according to the  United Nations ’ Food & Agriculture Organization.  “We’re not predicting more than historic figures, so we’re
talking about 2 percent to 3 percent but not more than that,”
Spierings said. “We need to have good preparation for next
season and if we step up our volumes again we’re back on track
for growth,”  A recovery in New Zealand production won’t prevent a
slowdown in global milk supply that is underpinning prices,
Spierings said. Output from the world’s 15 largest dairy
exporters is projected to rise 0.5 percent in 2013, less than a
third of the growth seen in 2012, amid unfavorable weather and
other supply disruptions, he said.  Global Supply  “The top 15 with 0.5 percent is pretty low,” he said,
adding that global demand generally increases by 2 percent to 3
percent a year.  The average winning price for whole milk powder across all
contract months at Fonterra’s GlobalDairyTrade auction on May 15
was $4,722 a metric ton. Fonterra expects prices will continue
around those levels until the end of the year, Spierings said.
The price reached a record $5,245 on April 16.  “It might drop back in 2014 to the normal level of $3,500,
so you would look at an average north of $4,000,” he said.  Based on that outlook, the company today forecast it will
pay its 10,500 farmer shareholders NZ$7 ($5.64) per kilogram of
milk solids in the year ending May 31, 2014. That compares with
the current year’s payout of NZ$5.80.  Fonterra maintained its forecast for a 32 cent dividend in
the year ending May 31. Farmers need to be cautious managing
their budgets as there has been a drop in New Zealand milk
collection and a recent dip in powder prices, Chairman  John Wilson  said in a statement.  Fonterra today said it will pay NZ$5 per kilogram at the
start of the season to ensure farmers are prepared after the
drought impacts.  Good Autumn  “Luckily the autumn has been pretty good, so land is in
good condition and cows are in good condition, but we want to
make sure that we have sufficient  cash flow  on farm so we have a
good start to the season,” Spierings said.  New Zealand declared drought across the entire  North Island 
including Waikato province, the biggest milk producer, in March
after a hot, dry summer. The nation will probably keep a drought
declaration until September even as pastures recover after rains
in some regions, the government said last month.  Milk collection tumbled 34 percent in April from a year
earlier after declining 16 percent in March, according to
Fonterra. The company said in March that growth in milk volumes
may be unchanged this season. New Zealand’s milk production
previously contracted in 2007-2008, when supply fell 2.6 percent
due to drought,  according  to industry group DairyNZ.  Rainfall  between May and July will probably be in the near-normal range for all regions in New Zealand, according to the
National Institute of Water and Atmospheric Research.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phoebe Sedgman in Melbourne at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net ;
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  