-- Fosun Gains on Club Med Takeover Bid With Axa: Hong Kong Mover
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   W o n g   a n d   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2013-05-28T09:24:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/fosun-gains-on-club-med-takeover-bid-with-axa-hong-kong-mover.html
Fosun International Ltd. (656)  rose the
most in two months in Hong Kong trading after the  investment
company  made a takeover bid yesterday for  Club Mediterranee SA (CU) 
with investors including Axa Private Equity.  The Shanghai-based investment arm of China’s biggest
closely held industrial group climbed 4.6 percent to HK$5.52,
the biggest gain since March 27. The benchmark  Hang Seng Index 
advanced 1.1 percent.  Fosun, controlled by billionaire Guo Guangchang, already
owns about 10 percent of the Paris-based resort operator, adding
to its investments in property, mining and drugs. Club Med Chief
Executive Officer Henri Giscard D’Estaing has unveiled plans to
more than double the number of customers in China in three years
as wealth in the region grows faster than elsewhere.  Efforts to strengthen the business will intensify, as the
French market, the resort operator’s largest, remains
“difficult,” according to a Fosun statement yesterday. Club
Med has said it will open new resorts in emerging economies.  The investors offered 17 euros for each share of the Paris-based all-inclusive resort operator, Axa and Fosun said
yesterday in a statement. Company management is also involved in
the bid, according to a separate statement yesterday.  Club Med rose 22 percent, the most since at least 1989, to
16.95 euros at the close in Paris yesterday.  D’Estaing, the son of former French president Valery Giscard D’Estaing, has led Club Med since 2002 and closed
resorts in Europe and expanded in Asia to improve profitability.
The operator of all-inclusive resorts started with a tent
village on the Mediterranean island of Mallorca in 1950.  The deal would create a holding company owned by Fosun, Axa
and Club Med management, ending almost half a century of public
listing. The companies plan to own 46 percent each of the
holding company that would own the Club Med shares, with
management holding 8 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephanie Wong in  Hong Kong  at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net ;
 Richard Weiss  in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  