-- France to Push Local Electric-Car Charging Network Plans
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2013-05-28T16:48:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/france-to-push-local-electric-car-charging-network-plans.html
France ’s government would prefer that
municipalities take the lead in developing electric-car charging
stations, Industry Minister Arnaud Montebourg said.  A national operator could “intervene” should locally
backed charging networks be slow to develop, “but it would best
for it to intervene eventually, not now,” Montebourg said today
at a conference in Paris of French mayors.  France, responding to public concern about rising fuel
prices and climate change, already backs the segment, offering
drivers a rebate of 7,000 euros ($9,000) on the purchase of a
battery-powered vehicle and 4,000 euros for a hybrid electric-gasoline model. The global market for electric cars is dominated
by  Renault SA (RNO) , based in the Paris suburb of Boulogne-Billancourt, and Japanese partner  Nissan Motor Co. (7201)   Consumers worldwide have been slow to embrace electric
models, which can cost more and offer shorter travel ranges than
similar gasoline-powered vehicles and pose inconveniences with
battery charging. Les Echos newspaper reported earlier today
that the French government is considering setting up a
nationwide charging network, with  Bollore SA (BOL) ,  JCDecaux SA (DEC) ,
 Veolia Environnement SA (VIE) ,  Vinci SA (DG)  and power utility  EDF SA (EDF) ’s
network subsidiary as possible providers.  Renault said yesterday that that it will work with  Bouygues
SA (EN) , France’s second-largest building company, to improve
electric-car charing availability in new buildings. Yokohama-based Nissan, the world’s biggest maker of electric cars,  said 
yesterday that marketing executive Jean-Pierre Diernaz is taking
the newly established position of director for the vehicles in
Europe.  Startup’s Collapse  The partners are contending with industry setbacks of the
past two years, including the collapse on May 26 of Better Place
LLC, an Israeli startup developing quick-recharging stations
that was working with Renault. Nissan, which builds the Leaf
hatchback, missed its U.S. target for electric-vehicle sales by
half in 2012.  The segment is also hampered by the six-year decline in
Europe’s car market. Carlos Ghosn, chief executive officer of
both Nissan and Renault, said today that a project with Seoul-based  LG Chem Ltd. (051910)  to build a car-battery plant in France is on
hold until the region’s industrywide sales recover.  France now counts about 6,000 charging stations for
electric vehicles and plans to increase that to 8,000 points by
the end of the year, Montebourg said.  Renault offers four electric models ranging in size from a
city car to a commercial van, the industry’s biggest line-up,
and it has sold more than 25,000 of the vehicles worldwide since
entering the segment in 2011. Nissan has delivered 60,000
electric vehicles since its Leaf car went on sale in late 2010.
The partners have a combined target of 1.5 million deliveries of
the models by 2016.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  