-- French Researchers Recommend Stopping E-Cigarette Use in Public
-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 2013-05-28T13:48:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/french-researchers-recommend-stopping-e-cigarette-use-in-public.html
Use of electronic cigarettes in
public spaces such as restaurants should be forbidden, French
researchers wrote in a government-commissioned  report .  Use of the devices, electronic tubes that simulate the
effect of smoking by producing nicotine vapor, should be
regulated, and forbidden to pregnant women and people younger
than 18, wrote the researchers, led by Bertrand Dautzenberg, a
professor of pneumology and the president of the  French Office
for Smoking Prevention , also known as OFT.  Electronic cigarettes, which mimic the look and feel of
traditional versions without generating smoke and ash, cause
damage to the lungs, researchers from the University of Athens
said in a study presented at the  European Respiratory Society 
annual meeting in Vienna in September. That study challenged
earlier research suggesting the devices, designed to help quit
smoking, are harmless.  “Even if the knowledge on these products is advancing
rapidly, there still are many points of uncertainty,”
Dautzenberg and his colleagues wrote in the report. “We cannot
wait for established scientific data to start proposing
recommendations” for the use of e-cigarettes.  The report has been published on the  OFT’s website  and was
conducted with support from the Direction Generale de la Sante,
which is part of the Health Ministry. It will be presented to
 France ’s Health and Social Affairs Minister Marisol Touraine
today, newspaper Le Monde  reported  on its website.  Makers of the battery-powered devices include  Fort
Lauderdale , Florida-based  Vapor Corp. (VPCO)   Lorillard Inc. (LO) , a Greensboro, North Carolina-based producer
of standard cigarettes, acquired the devices with its $135
million purchase of Blu Ecigs in April last year.  The U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  has yet to impose
rules on the testing and production of e-cigarettes. More than
3.5 million Americans use e-cigarettes, according to the  Tobacco
Vapor Electronic Cigarette Association .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  