-- Gazit NY Discount to Tel Aviv Narrows: Israel Overnight
-- B y   L e s l i e   P i c k e r
-- 2013-05-29T07:17:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/gazit-ny-discount-to-tel-aviv-narrows-israel-overnight.html
Gazit-Globe Ltd. (GZT)  jumped the most in
three months in New York, narrowing its discount to the
company’s Tel Aviv-traded shares, on prospects that rental
income at the real estate holding company will keep climbing.  New York-traded shares of the Tel Aviv-based company surged
3.6 percent to $13.74 after the stock in Tel Aviv advanced 2.8
percent, paring the discount by 52 percent to 7 cents. Trading
volume in the U.S. was 10 times the daily average over the past
three months. The Bloomberg Israel-US Equity Index gained 0.9
percent, the most in a week.  Gazit-Globe, which has real estate in more than 20
countries including the U.S. and  Brazil , said yesterday that its
rental income rose 6.4 percent to 1.34 billion shekels ($360
million) in the first quarter. The growth will continue this
year as demand outpaces supply, according to forecasts by
research firm  Reis Inc. (REIS)  The Israeli property owner’s occupancy
rate was 95 percent as of March 31, compared with a 10.6 percent
average vacancy rate for retail spaces in the U.S., according to
data compiled by Reis.  “They have a strong portfolio of rent-producing
properties,” Zach Herzog, head of international sales at Psagot
Investment House Ltd. in Tel Aviv, said by phone yesterday. “In
a market where maybe people have a bit of concern about the
sustainability, it certainly is a place where one can feel more
comfortable.”  Mall Operators  Gazit-Globe is outperforming the Bloomberg REIT Shopping
Center Index in the stock market by the most since April 5.
Shopping centers reached their widest premium on a valuation
basis relative to total real estate investment trusts since
mid-2009, data compiled by Bloomberg Industries on May 24 show.  Gazit-Globe’s subsidiary  Equity One Inc. (EQY) , based in North
Miami Beach, Florida, reported first-quarter rental income on
May 1 of  $86 million , the most in at least a decade. Its
Toronto-based  First Capital Realty Inc. (FCR)  unit posted a record
high of C$157.8 million, or $151.9 million in the three months
to March 31.  While Gazit-Globe said its rental income increased from
North America, the company has been cutting its holdings in the
region, Dori Segal, the president and chief executive officer of
First Capital said on the conference call yesterday.  “They’ve been trimming North American properties on
valuation, selling some good assets to buy great assets,” David Ragan, a portfolio manager at Mawer Investment Management Ltd.
in Calgary, which oversees $16.4 billion including Gazit-Globe
shares, said by phone yesterday. “I’m expecting more capital to
be invested outside of North America.”  Poland, Brazil  Gazit-Globe is looking to invest in the  Nordic countries ,
such as Sweden, Finland and Norway, as well as Poland and
Brazil, Chairman Chaim Katzman said in a May 7 Bloomberg TV
interview.  Gazit-Globe added 3.6 percent yesterday in New York, the
most since Feb. 19, to $13.74. The Israel shares today slipped
0.6 percent to 50.86 shekels, or $13.72, at 10:11 a.m. in  Tel
Aviv .  The Bloomberg Israel-US Equity Index climbed to 92.39, led
by Gazit-Globe. Israel’s benchmark  TA-25 Index (TA-25)  fell 0.2 percent,
the first time in four days, to 1,238.93.  Taro Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TARO) , based in Yakum,
Israel, slumped the most on the gauge, retreating 1.9 percent to
a one-month low of $59.30.  Gilat Satellite Networks Ltd. (GILT) , based in  Petah Tikva ,
Israel, rose the most in a week, by 2.1 percent to $5.45. The
maker of satellite Internet connection systems introduced new
technology for its SkyEdge II-c product that will improve
efficiency and performance, according to a press release
yesterday. Shares in Tel Aviv gained 0.1 percent to 20.30
shekels, or $5.48.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Picker in  New York  at 
 lpicker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Laura Zelenko at 
 lzelenko@bloomberg.net  