-- GDF Suez Buys 9% Stake in Nabucco Gas Pipeline Project From OMV
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2013-05-28T01:53:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/gdf-suez-buys-9-stake-in-nabucco-gas-pipeline-project-from-omv.html
GDF Suez (GSZ)  SA, a French utilities
provider, agreed to buy a 9 percent stake in Nabucco Gas
Pipeline International GmbH from  OMV AG (OMV) , a project that seeks to
ship Caspian gas to Europe.  GDF Suez bought part of OMV’s stake for an undisclosed sum,
adding a sixth partner to the pipeline project, Vienna-based
OMV, central Europe’s biggest oil company, said today in a
statement. The pipeline aims to bring as much as 31 billion
cubic meters (1 trillion cubic feet) of natural gas a year to
 Austria  via  Turkey  and southeastern Europe by 2017.  “Having GDF Suez as new partner for Nabucco West is
another milestone for the project,” Gerhard Roiss, OMV’s chief
executive officer said according to the statement. “It proves
that we are on the right way to provide Europe with more gas and
to secure new sources of gas for the future.”  The Nabucco pipeline, a venture that also includes partner
companies from  Bulgaria , Turkey, Hungary and Romania, was
originally planned to cost 7.9 billion euros ($10 billion) for a
length of 3,900 kilometers (2,400 miles). The scope of the
project has shrunk to 1,315 kilometers, named Nabucco West, the
company said in November without specifying a revised cost.  Nabucco West is competing with the Trans-Adriatic Pipeline,
known as TAP, for rights to export gas from the Shah Deniz
field, which may hold 1.2 trillion cubic meters of fuel in
Azerbaijan’s part of the  Caspian Sea . The European Union wants
to diversify supplies away from Russia, which provides a quarter
of its natural gas.  “With this strengthened pan-European partnership we are
looking forward to the upcoming decision of the Shah Deniz II
consortium concerning their preferred delivery route to
Europe,” said Roiss.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  