-- German Stocks Rise as U.S. House-Price Data Beat Forecast
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2013-05-28T14:10:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/german-stocks-gain-before-u-s-consumer-confidence-report.html
German stocks  advanced for a second
day as reports showed U.S.  consumer confidence  climbed in May to
the highest level in more than five years, while home prices
rose the most in seven years in the 12 months through March.  Bayer AG (BAYN)  gained 2.7 percent after analysts upgraded the
shares.  Continental AG (CON)  added 1.8 percent after announcing an
agreement with OC Oerlikon Corp. to develop and sell
transmission systems for hybrid and electric vehicles.  The  DAX Index (DAX)  climbed 1.6 percent to 8,518.3 at 4:07 p.m.
in Frankfurt. The measure fell 1.1 percent last week amid
concern the U.S. Federal Reserve will reduce its stimulus
measures. The gauge is still heading for a gain of 7.7 percent
this month, its biggest monthly advance since January 2012. The
HDAX Index increased 1.6 percent today.  “Global investors have bought the dip again after a
volatile recent week and have come into a shortened week,
feeling positive on better housing,” Daniel Weston, a portfolio
manager at Aimed Capital Management LLC in Munich, wrote in an
e-mail.  In the U.S., the Conference Board’s  index  rose to 76.2, the
strongest since February 2008 and exceeding the highest estimate
in a Bloomberg survey of economists, from a revised 69 in April,
data from the New York-based private research group showed
today. The median forecast called for an increase to 71.2.  Separately, the S&P/Case-Shiller  index  of property values
increased 10.9 percent from March 2012, the biggest 12-month
gain since April 2006, after advancing 9.4 percent in February,
a report showed in  New York . The median projection of 30
economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a 10.2 percent gain.  Home prices  adjusted for seasonal variations increased 1.1
percent in March, compared with a 1.3 gain in February. The
Bloomberg survey median called for a 1 percent rise.  Bayer Gains  Bayer, the maker of drugs and agricultural chemicals,
climbed 2.7 percent to 87.01 euros, its highest price since at
least 1992. Jefferies & Co. upgraded its rating of the shares to
buy from hold, citing “positive momentum” in the company’s
pharma and crop-science divisions, and the potential benefits
from restructuring.  Continental added 1.8 percent to 101.55 euros.  Europe ’s
second-largest supplier of auto parts and OC Oerlikon said they
will cooperate on the development and marketing of integrated
motor-transmission systems for hybrid and electric vehicles.  Allianz SE added 2.8 percent to 121.50 euros. A group of
investors led by Europe’s biggest insurer agreed to buy a
shopping mall in the Polish city of Katowice from Immofinanz AG
for 412 million euros ($532 million).  Aixtron Upgraded  Aixtron SE jumped 8.4 percent to 13.64 euros, its highest
price in a year. Natixis raised its recommendation on the maker
of equipment for the semiconductor industry to buy from neutral,
citing a rebounding LED industry that the company should benefit
from.  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  was little changed at 8.02 euros. Shares
erased earlier gains of as much as 3 percent after  Standard &
Poor’s  lowered the debt rating of  Germany ’s second-biggest bank,
on concern the lender will struggle to boost earnings on a
sustainable basis.  S&P cut Commerzbank’s long-term counterparty and senior
unsecured credit ratings to A- from A, and its short-term rating
to A-2 from A-1, the ratings company said in an e-mailed
statement today. The outlook on the Frankfurt-based bank is
negative.  The volume of shares changing hands in companies on the DAX
was 16 percent lower than the average of the past 30 days,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in  Frankfurt  at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  