-- Gold Premiums Tumble From India to Hong Kong as Demand Wanes
-- B y   G l e n y s   S i m   a n d   S w a n s y   A f o n s o
-- 2013-05-28T11:36:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/gold-premiums-tumble-from-india-to-hong-kong-as-demand-wanes.html
Gold premiums have tumbled in  India 
and Hong Kong, signaling that the buying frenzy that followed
bullion’s biggest slump in three decades last month has weakened
in the largest consumers. Prices fell.  Premiums paid by jewelers to banks in India are being
quoted between $3 and $3.50 an ounce over the London cash price,
compared with $10 to $12 early this month, said Haresh Soni,
chairman of the All India Gems & Jewellery Trade Federation. In
Hong Kong, consumers are paying about $3 an ounce compared with
$5 to $6 last week, according to Heraeus Metals Hong Kong Ltd.  Gold plunged into a bear market last month as investment
holdings fell, spurring demand for jewelry and coins across Asia
and the Middle East as buyers were lured by prices at the
cheapest in more than two years. The increased physical demand,
which helped bullion to rebound, may now be weakening even as
holdings in exchange-traded products shrink further.  “Premiums have come down as demand is slower and there is
more supply,” Dick Poon, general manager at refiner and trader
Heraeus, said in an interview today. “Last month, when the
price dropped, many people rushed to buy gold and that created a
shortage.”  Gold for immediate delivery sank as low as $1,321.95 an
ounce on April 16 amid speculation that a recovery in the U.S.
would prompt the central bank to taper asset purchases. Prices,
which had rebounded to $1,488.09 an ounce by May 3, traded at
$1,378.95 at 7:34 p.m. in  Singapore  after dropping 1.2 percent.  Physical Buying  Gold is 18 percent lower this year as record reductions
from  ETP holdings  outweighed stronger physical demand. The
increased buying last month was comparable to cash-for-clunkers
in autos, bringing forward activity, not adding to overall
purchases, Ric Deverell, head of commodities research at Credit
Suisse Group AG, said on May 16. Cash-for-clunkers refers to the
U.S. program during the financial crisis that offered incentives
for people to trade in older cars for new ones.  ABN Amro Group NV said in a report on May 1 that the
recovery in the gold price would prove to be temporary,
forecasting that physical demand would soon be overshadowed by
further investor sales.  Global ETP holdings have declined every week for the past
15, taking reductions to 473.5 metric tons this year. Assets
have fallen  17 percent in 2013  after expanding every year since
the first product was listed in 2003, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. ETPs trade like shares and enable investors to hold
commodities without taking physical delivery.  Dubai Souks  After gold plunged 14 percent in the two days through April
15, the biggest such drop since 1983, bars were cleared from
display in the souks in Dubai and  Chow Tai Fook Jewellery Group
Ltd. (1929)  sold a record 10,000 bracelets in Hong Kong. The U.S. Mint
also ran out of its smallest American Eagle gold coin.  India’s gold imports in May are expected to be lower than
April’s 117 tons as demand tapered off after the main gold-buying festival of Akshaya Tritiya on May 13 and as the wedding
season ends, Soni said. Premiums have fallen as demand decreased
and supply improved, he said.  Premiums in Hong Kong are seen as a guide to demand in
 China , the largest consumer after India in 2012. Volumes for the
benchmark contract on the Shanghai Gold Exchange, China’s
biggest cash market, exceeded 273 tons between April 16 and 26,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Volumes, which reached
a daily record 43.3 tons on April 22, were 15.6 tons today.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Glenys Sim at 
 gsim4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  