-- Goldman Board Plan Shields Its Ferries From Foreign Label
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2013-05-29T04:00:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/goldman-sachs-boosts-quorum-requirement-for-board-s-meetings.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., the owner
of  two passenger ferries , boosted the number of board members
needed to constitute a quorum at meetings to comply with a
maritime law enacted almost a century ago.  The bank requires that a majority of directors attend board
meetings, rather than the half needed previously, the company
said yesterday in a regulatory filing. Goldman Sachs has  12
board members , meaning seven are needed for a quorum.  The change took effect May 22 and keeps the New York-based
firm in compliance with laws that restrict the transportation of
passengers between U.S. ports to vessels owned by U.S. citizens
and are designed to limit foreign influence over the nation’s
ships. Goldman Sachs owns the York and the Jersey, ferries that
began operating this year to shuttle employees and the public
between Manhattan and  New Jersey .  U.S. law defines corporations as U.S. citizens with respect
to registering ships only if foreign nationals comprise less
than half the board’s quorum. Three of Goldman Sachs’s 12
directors fit that description: Claes Dahlback of Sweden,
 Lakshmi Mittal  of India, and  Mark Tucker  of the U.K. That
prompted Goldman Sachs to change its bylaws, said a person
briefed on the decision, who requested anonymity because the
company’s deliberations were private.  The ferries help employees commute between the bank’s
headquarters in Lower Manhattan and its offices across the
Hudson River in  Jersey City .  “While we certainly want to create a comfortable
environment for employees and anyone else who uses the ferry,
our primary considerations when purchasing these new boats were
about the environmental and efficiency aspects, the noise
aspects, as well as being a good neighbor,” Tiffany Galvin, a
Goldman Sachs spokeswoman, told Bloomberg Businessweek earlier
this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  