-- Grillo Ushers In Politics-for-Profit With Google Ads
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2013-05-29T12:19:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/grillo-ushers-in-politics-for-profit-with-google-ads.html
Beppe Grillo’s electoral success in
 Italy  is helping the business side of his political venture.  Beppegrillo.it , a blog he owns that serves as the virtual
home to his Five Star Movement and its 162 national lawmakers,
is bringing in funds after signing up for  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s
advertising service. Five Star gets none of the proceeds and
funds itself on donations, according to Grillo.  “That advertising gave us some breathing room to cover the
costs of the blog,” Grillo said in an interview May 24 in
Siena, Italy, adding that the site lost money in recent years.
When asked about the blog’s potential to make profits, he
replied, “Is it a crime to make something profitable?”  “Anyway, if you can dig up a profitable blog, I’ll put 100
euros on the table.”  At the growing intersection of politics and profits, Five
Star’s electorate, which swelled to a quarter of Italian voters,
is the website’s market. Grillo has worked to win its loyalty.
The ex-comic and anti-establishment crusader shuns interviews
with domestic newspapers and television networks. Instead, he
directs supporters to the website and tells them they can’t
trust other media outlets.  That message resonates in Italy, where three TV stations
are run by the state and three more are owned by Silvio Berlusconi, a former premier and currently a partner in Prime
Minister Enrico Letta’s coalition government. Grillo uses his
website to rebut news stories and TV reports about Five Star.  Beyond the ads for  Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide Inc. (HOT) 
and insurer  Aviva Plc (AV/)  that have appeared this year, the blog
also solicits donations for Five Star.  ‘Wide Audience’  The blog has the elements of “a great place to make
money,” said Pietro Paganini, who teaches business
administration at John Cabot University in Rome. “It has a very
wide audience.”  The blog’s web address, beppegrillo.it, appears on the Five
Star logo that adorns campaign posters and official ballots in
the voting booth. The blog has a page  dedicated  to Five Star,
containing electoral lists, a forum and its policy program. That
page didn’t have advertising this week.  Five Star refused to accept the 42.8 million euros ($55
million) in public funding it says it is entitled to for the
nearly 9 million votes it won in the Feb. 24-25 general
election. The party’s lawmakers, political neophytes swept to
power under Grillo’s banner, are required by Five Star’s code to
return a portion of their salaries to the state.  Party Donations  The party  collected  774,208 euros from 9,789 donors through
April 11, according to the website. Grillo travelled Italy in a
camper during the campaign, making stops in more than 70 cities
and broadcasting his rallies live through the website.  Grillo’s campaign against the use of public subsidies
pushed Letta last week to announce his government is preparing a
bill to abolish state financing for parties.  Grillo’s blog ranks 146th for traffic among Italian
websites, according to Amazon.com Inc. unit Alexa Internet Inc.
Google,  Facebook Inc. (FB)  and Youtube.com were Italy’s top three
sites, according to the ranking. Grillo’s site was one spot
below  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO) ’s Flickr photo-sharing service and 36 steps
above  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Skype.  Grillo has taken to his blog this month to assert that
Berlusconi oversees “the obscene partnership between illegality
and democracy,” and dubbed Letta “Captain Findus” after a
brand of freezer-stored fish-sticks. Ads on the English language
portion of the blog included Amazon.com’s listing of Gianluigi
Nuzzi’s  book  “Ratzinger Was Afraid” and a  promotion  for online
Italian language lessons through Yabla.  Rome Vote  Five Star’s candidate in the first round of Rome’s mayoral
election this week  garnered  about 12 percent of the vote to
finish third. Ignazio Marino, of Letta’s Democratic Party, took
43 percent, while Giovanni Alemanno, the incumbent from
Berlusconi’s coalition, got 30 percent.  Grillo, 64, was a success as an entrepreneur before
founding the blog eight years ago with the website’s curator,
Gianroberto Casaleggio. In the 1980s and 1990s, Grillo was a
political satirist who built his celebrity pitching Yomo yogurt
in a series of TV spots. That notoriety, combined with his
website posts and rallies, helped him gain a following for his
blog, and then turn Five Star into the country’s third-biggest
political force.  DVD-Funded  “We started the blog in 2005 and initially funded it with
the DVD of one of my shows,” said Grillo. “Then we went ahead
with the movement.”  The website is where Grillo’s rallies are broadcast, and
that’s where his 1.2 million followers on Twitter Inc. end up
when they click on links in his posts. Grillo’s Facebook page,
which has more than 1.3 million “likes,” also contains links
to the blog. Parliamentary events involving Five Star members
are shown live in streaming.  The website’s financing was in the news last week after
“Report,” a television news program on state-owned broadcaster
RAI, ran a story asking Grillo for an explanation about its
profits.  Casaleggio Associati , the Internet consulting firm started
by Casaleggio after his tenure at  Telecom Italia SpA (TIT)  ended, has
covered the blog’s financial shortfalls. In 2011, it had a loss
of 57,800 euros on revenue of 1.4 million euros, according to
the blog. At Milan-based Telecom Italia, Casaleggio served as
chief executive officer of the Webegg unit.  Adding Ads  “In 2012 the costs became unsustainable,” a posting on
the website signed by Grillo’s staff said on May 21.
“Advertisements were introduced, though not for all categories,
to avoid having to close it.”  The website has six or seven people working on it and the
cost of the server that hosts it is 300,000 euros a year, Grillo
said in the Bloomberg interview. Grillo said he hasn’t made
profit since he stopped doing comedy shows to focus on politics.
His goal is to bring Five Star into government and then step
back from politics.  “I will resume what I was doing before all this,” Grillo
said. “If there’s a microphone and an audience, then to me
there is not a big difference between a show and a rally.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in  Rome  at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  