-- Ibovespa Drops as Brookfield Declines on Interest-Rate Outlook
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i   a n d   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-05-28T21:13:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/ibovespa-futures-gain-as-rising-commodities-boost-export-outlook.html
The Ibovespa fell as Brookfield
Incorporacoes SA led homebuilders’ losses on concern higher
borrowing costs in  Brazil  will curb the economic recovery.  The BM&FBovespa Real Estate Index dropped the most in six
weeks. Miner MMX Mineracao & Metalicos SA slumped the most on
the benchmark gauge, leading a decline in companies controlled
by the Brazilian billionaire  Eike Batista . Losses were limited
as oil company Petroleo Brasileiro SA followed crude prices
higher amid signs that growth is picking up in the U.S.  The Ibovespa fell 0.6 percent to 56,036.26 at the close of
trading in Sao Paulo. Thirty-nine  stocks  on the gauge dropped
while 31 rose. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI index of 24 raw
materials added 1 percent, increasing for the first time in five
days, as reports showed U.S. home prices rose and  consumer
confidence  improved. The real fell 0.9 percent to 2.0749 per
dollar.  “The problem with  interest rates  is that there isn’t a
consensus on what the central bank’s next move will be, and
today traders seem to be betting heavier on a bigger increase,”
 Pedro Galdi , the chief strategist at Sao Paulo-based brokerage
SLW Corretora, said in a phone interview. “If the pace of rate
increases accelerates, that could have an impact on equities.”  Brazilian swap rates, a gauge of expectations of central
bank interest-rate moves, advanced on most contracts as policy
makers started a two-day meeting today. Of 57 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg, 38 predict that the target rate will be
lifted by 0.25 percentage point, while 19 are betting on an
increase of a half-percentage point.  PDG Declines  Brookfield slumped 5.3 percent to 1.96 reais. PDG Realty SA
fell 3.7 percent to 2.60 reais, while MRV Engenharia &
Participacoes SA lost 5 percent to 7.22 reais. The BM&FBovespa
Real Estate Index retreated 1.1 percent.  Petrobras, as Petroleo Brasileiro is known, climbed 0.7
percent to 20.07 reais. Crude rallied 1 percent in  New York .  MMX slipped 9 percent to 2.03 reais, while oil company OGX
Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA dropped 5.1 percent to 1.66
reais.  The Ibovespa was the only major benchmark gauge in the
Americas to decline today. The index has dropped 8.1 percent
this year, underperforming  emerging markets  including China,
Russia and  India .  Brazil’s main equity index trades at 12.9 times analyst
earnings estimates for the next four quarters, compared with
10.8 for the MSCI Emerging Markets Index of 21 developing
nations’  equities , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Trading volume for stocks in Sao Paulo was 6.46 billion
reais today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That
compares with a daily average of 7.73 billion reais this year
through May 24, according to data compiled by the exchange.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ney Hayashi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  