-- Libya Parliament Chief Quits in New Test for Transition
-- B y   S a l e h   S a r r a r   a n d   M a r i a m   S a m i
-- 2013-05-28T16:45:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/libya-parliament-chief-magariaf-quits-in-new-test-for-transition.html
Libya ’s parliamentary speaker, the de
facto head of state, resigned days before a law barring senior
Muammar Qaddafi-era officials from office comes into effect.  “I leave you in gratitude and success from God,” Mohammed Magariaf told the 200-member interim parliament, the General
National Congress, which gave him a standing ovation.  Magariaf, who served as Libya’s ambassador in  India  under
Qaddafi until he fled abroad to lead the opposition in 1980, is
the highest-ranking official to leave his post since the
Isolation Law was passed on May 5. The extent of the vetting law
will be announced by the Political Positions Standards
Implementation Authority by June 5. The law can still be
scrapped if it’s not included in a new constitution.  The resignation adds to tensions in Libya, where security
is collapsing as the government struggles to rein in militias.
There have been attacks on ministries, embassies and diplomats,
including the storming of an American diplomatic facility in
Benghazi in September that led to the death of U.S. Ambassador
Chris Stevens.  During his speech, Magariaf warned against the tens of
thousands of people “who use arms or threaten to,” a reference
to militiamen who have in the past threatened politicians and
besieged ministries to press for the passage of the law. These
groups will force Libyans to “remain stuck in a foggy period,”
Magariaf said. He attacked parties that put their own interests
above those of the country.  Revolutionary Leaders  Islamist parties, their supporters and militiamen stand to
gain the most of the Isolation Law since they will be guaranteed
the opportunity to fill the resulting vacuum, said Ziad Akl, a
senior researcher at the Cairo-based Al Ahram Center for
Political and Strategic studies.  The Isolation Law will affect everyone from college deans
to ambassadors. That could include leaders of the 2011 uprising
such as former interim Prime Minister Mahmoud Jibril, who heads
the National Forces Alliance, and Mustafa Abdel Jalil, chairman
of the National Transitional Council that handed over power to
the GNC.  Discussions about the law escalated into clashes between
its supporters and opponents in central Tripoli on April 30 and
again on May 2 and 3, although no casualties were reported. The
law was passed with 164 of the 169 lawmakers present voting in
favor, and five opposed. Critics say lawmakers were pressured
into supporting it.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saleh Sarrar in Dubai at 
 ssarar@bloomberg.net ;
Mariam Sami in Cairo at 
 msami2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  