-- India’s Nifty Futures Swing Between Gains, Losses in Singapore
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2013-05-28T02:47:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/india-s-nifty-futures-swing-between-gains-losses-in-singapore.html
Indian (SENSEX)  stock-index futures swung
between gains and losses after earnings at the world’s biggest
coal producer jumped and before key economic data is released
this week.  SGX CNX Nifty Index futures  for May delivery were little
changed at 6,074 at 10:40 a.m. in Singapore. The contract
expires on May 30. The underlying CNX  Nifty (NIFTY)  Index rallied 1.7
percent to 6,083.15 yesterday. The S&P BSE Sensex also surged
1.7 percent. The Bank of  New York  Mellon India ADR Index of
U.S.-traded shares fell for a fifth day, the longest losing
streak since September.  The Sensex rose the most since May 15 yesterday, rebounding
from the worst loss in nine weeks last week.  Coal India Ltd. (COAL) 
reported after the market closed yesterday a better-than-forecast 35 percent increase in fourth-quarter net income to
54.1 billion rupees ($973 million). India reports gross domestic
product data for the quarter ended March 31 and economic growth
forecasts for the current quarter on May 30.  “This week will be volatile, since it will include the
derivatives expiry as well as GDP data,” Nagji K Rita, Chairman
of Inventure Growth & Securities Ltd., wrote in an e-mail
yesterday.  Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (SUNP) , India’s most valuable
drugmaker, may say today its fourth-quarter profit climbed 12
percent to 9.17 billion rupees, according to the median estimate
of 32 analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  Foreign Flows  State-run  GAIL India Ltd. (GAIL) , the nation’s top gas
transporter, may report a 78 percent jump in net income to 8.6
billion rupees, according to the median of 37 analyst estimates
in a Bloomberg survey.  Hindalco Industries Ltd. (HNDL) , India’s second-largest copper
producer, may report a 40 percent drop in its fourth-quarter
profit to 3.87 billion rupees, according to the median estimate
of 25 analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  Profits at four of 22 Sensex companies that have posted
March-quarter results so far have  trailed  analysts’  estimates ,
compared with 43 percent in the previous three months.  Foreign funds  were net sellers of Indian stocks for the
first time in 26 days on May 24, according to data from the
market regulator. Overseas investors sold a net $32.7 million
worth of stocks, paring this year’s investment to $14.5 billion,
still a record for the period.  Monetary easing by global central banks has stoked inflows
into  emerging markets  including India. Flows have accelerated
since the  Reserve Bank  of India lowered interest  rates  for the
third time this year on May 3.  The Sensex has climbed 3.1 percent this year and is valued
at 13.8 times projected 12-month profits, compared with the MSCI
Emerging Markets Index’s 10.5 times.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  