-- India’s Rupee Approaches Nine-Month Low as Investors Buy Dollars
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2013-05-28T04:40:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/india-s-rupee-approaches-nine-month-low-as-investors-buy-dollars.html
India’s rupee fell toward the lowest
level since September as investors favored the U.S. currency on
signs the world’s largest economy is recovering.  The Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback against six
major trading partners, snapped a two-day loss. The Conference
Board’s index of consumer sentiment probably climbed this month
to its highest level since November, while the S&P/Case-Shiller
measure of property values in 20 cities jumped the most since
April 2006, separate Bloomberg surveys of economists show before
reports today. The rupee’s losses will be limited by inflows to
Indian stocks, according to  HDFC Bank Ltd. (HDFCB)   “Today’s depreciation is largely due to the broad dollar
strength,” said Ashtosh Raina, Mumbai-based head of foreign-exchange trading at HDFC Bank. “The rupee will likely stay
range-bound as inflows are there.”  The currency weakened 0.2 percent to 55.6750 per dollar as
of 9:23 a.m. in Mumbai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
It touched 56.0150 on May 23, the lowest level since Sept. 6,
and has dropped 3.4 percent this month.  One-month implied volatility, a gauge of expected moves in
the exchange rate used to price options, rose 15 basis points,
or 0.15 percentage point, to 8.99 percent.  Gold Curbs  The rupee will also be supported by the Reserve Bank of
 India ’s curbs against gold purchases to rein in a record
current-account deficit, Raina said. The central bank  clarified 
yesterday that lenders cannot make loans using units of gold
exchange-traded funds as collateral. The monetary authority on
May 13 limited imports of the metal by banks on a consignment
basis to only those required to meet the genuine needs of
exporters.  Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said last week the
central bank may cut the pace of its asset purchases, a policy
known as quantitative easing, if officials see indications of
sustained growth. Overseas funds bought a net $14.5 billion of
Indian shares this year as global stimulus measures boosted cash,
exchange data show.  Three-month onshore rupee forwards traded at 56.50 per
dollar, compared with 56.46 yesterday, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Offshore non-deliverable contracts were
at 56.56 versus 56.45. Forwards are agreements to buy or sell
assets at a set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are
settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  