-- Iran Presidential Candidate Slams TV Anchor Over Nuclear ‘Lies’
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2013-05-28T11:25:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/iran-presidential-candidate-slams-tv-anchor-over-nuclear-lies-.html
Iranian presidential candidate and
former chief nuclear negotiator Hassan Rohani slammed a state
television anchor for perpetuating “lies” after he was accused
during a live interview of halting the progress of the country’s
nuclear program.  “In essence everything was suspended,” said the TV
interviewer facing Rohani in a  program  aired late yesterday as
part of the candidate’s allotted campaigning slot. “How much is
your government ready to accept criticism?”  “What you said is a lie and you know it’s a lie,”
responded Rohani, who oversaw negotiations on  Iran ’s nuclear
program with world powers until 2005. “You are saying that we
suspended the nuclear program? We were the ones who came to
master the nuclear technology.”  In 2003, Iran implemented an Additional Protocol allowing
 International Atomic Energy Agency  inspectors wider access and
agreed to suspend enrichment activities during negotiations with
the European Union.  President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad , who started the first of his
two terms in 2005, has touted the nuclear program as a question
of national pride and independence. Ahmadinejad has portrayed
the past administration’s decisions on the issue as capitulations 
in the face of Western pressure.  Rohani said it was during his time as a nuclear negotiator,
under the presidency of Mohammad Khatami, that “necessary
opportunities” were created to ensure technical progress.  “The day I handed over the nuclear file, we had 1,700 or
so centrifuges ready,” Rohani said. “The day I received the
nuclear file we had 150.”  Iran’s economy is being squeezed by sanctions imposed by
the  United Nations , U.S. and European Union, all during
Ahmadinejad’s presidency. The U.S. and its allies say  Iran’s
nuclear program  may conceal an atomic weapons development plan.  Iran is holding a presidential election on June 14 and
Rohani is one of eight candidates participating in the contest.
Ahmadinejad is not eligible to run for a third consecutive time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  