-- IRS Taps Executive to Restore Integrity in Scandal’s Wake
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2013-05-29T13:58:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/irs-taps-executive-to-restore-integrity-in-scandal-s-wake.html
The Internal Revenue Service has
appointed David Fisher, chief financial officer of the
Government Accountability Office, as a senior executive to help
the tax agency recover from the controversy over its scrutiny of
small-government groups.  Fisher will be charged with improving internal controls and
“restoring the integrity of IRS operations,” Danny Werfel, the
acting IRS commissioner, said in a statement yesterday
announcing Fisher’s appointment as the agency’s chief risk
officer and senior adviser.  “His role in the government financial community, bolstered
by his significant achievements and his willingness to ensure
the organization’s goals are served, has prepared him well to
assume this position,” Werfel said. The Government
Accountability Office is the nonpartisan investigative arm of
Congress.  Four congressional committees and the U.S. Justice
Department are investigating the IRS’s extra scrutiny of groups
with “Tea Party” and “patriot” in their names when they were
applying for tax-exempt status.  Forced Out  Already, three IRS officials have left their jobs as a
result of the controversy.  Steven Miller, the former acting commissioner, was forced
out of that position. Joseph Grant, who oversaw tax-exempt
groups and government entities, announced his retirement eight
days after being promoted.  Lois Lerner, who managed the office that handled
applications from tax-exempt groups, was placed on paid
administrative leave May 23. She disclosed the IRS’s actions on
May 10 and apologized, four days before an inspector general’s
report was released.  Werfel became acting IRS commissioner on May 22. He is
scheduled to make his first appearance before a congressional
panel on June 3, testifying before the House Appropriations
Subcommittee on Financial Services and General Government.  “It is critical to gain a clear understanding of how the
IRS uses the taxpayer dollars it receives from Congress and to
research how our bill can help prevent abuses like those
revealed in the Treasury Inspector General for Tax
Administration report from ever happening again,”
Representative Ander Crenshaw, a Florida Republican and the
subcommittee’s chairman, said in a statement.  The House Ways and Means Committee today announced its
second hearing on the subject. Representatives from some of the
groups that received extra scrutiny will testify on June 4.  “This hearing will provide a voice to those Americans who
wound up under the IRS’s political microscope on the basis of
their beliefs,” Representative Dave Camp, a Michigan Republican
and the committee’s chairman, said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  