-- Israeli Shares Gain Most in Three Months as Interest Rates Cut
-- B y   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 2013-05-28T14:23:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/israeli-shares-gain-most-in-three-months-as-interest-rates-cut.html
Israel ’s shares advanced the  most in
more than three months  after the central bank cut  interest rates 
for a second time in two weeks and as companies reported higher
quarterly profits.  The benchmark TA-25 Index rose 1.3 percent to 1,241.17 at
the close today, the highest level since April 2. Foodmaker
 Strauss Group Ltd. (STRS)  jumped 4.6 percent,  leading the gains  in Tel
Aviv, after it said quarterly profit almost doubled. Israel
Discount Bank Ltd., the country’s third-largest bank, surged 3.3
percent.  The  Bank of Israel , led by Governor  Stanley Fischer ,
yesterday cut the base lending rate by a quarter point to 1.25
percent, the lowest in more than three years. Gazit-Globe Ltd.
said quarterly profit jumped 34 percent and  Mizrahi Tefahot Bank
Ltd. (MZTF)  reported a 12 percent increase in profit as bad loan
provisions dropped amid an improvement in the nation’s business
credit quality.  “There’s a positive momentum in the market following the
rate cut and the positive earning reports in the morning,” Zach Herzog, head of international sales at Psagot Investment House
Ltd. in Tel Aviv, said today by phone. “Together with the
strong European markets and positive U.S. futures it’s giving
investors confidence.”  The MSCI Europe Index gained 1.3 percent and the Standard
and Poors’ 500 Index futures climbed 0.8 percent today. The
central bank said yesterday the rate cut is intended to narrow
gaps with rates in major economies and “weaken the forces”
driving the Israeli currency’s advance. Exports make up about 40
percent of Israel’s economy and are hurt by a stronger shekel,
which has surged 3.8 percent in the past six months.  Gazit-Globe Ltd., a real estate company, advanced 2.8
percent to 51.19 shekels, the highest level in more than five
years. Mizrahi Tefahot Bank Ltd., the country’s fourth-largest
bank, gained 2.3 percent, the most since Jan. 31, to 38.35
shekels.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shoshanna Solomon in  Tel Aviv  at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  