-- Johnson Is Waiting for Cameron to Fail, Ex-Adviser Says
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-05-29T10:14:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/johnson-is-waiting-for-cameron-to-fail-ex-adviser-says.html
London Mayor Boris Johnson won’t try
to oust  David Cameron  and will wait for the U.K. prime minister
to “fail miserably” before attempting to become Tory party
leader, a former adviser to Cameron said.  In his first public intervention in politics since his
arrest on allegations of corruption and phone hacking, Andy Coulson, Cameron’s communications director until 2011, offered
advice to his former boss in an article for  GQ magazine  to be
published tomorrow. Coulson wrote that Cameron should only
engage publicly with Johnson when “absolutely necessary.”  Buoyed by re-election in May last year and the success of
the London Olympics last year, the bicycling mayor has
increasingly been touted by Conservative activists as a possible
successor to Cameron, whose poll ratings have fallen. Johnson
has repeatedly refused to rule himself out as a possible future
Tory leader.  “ Boris Johnson  desperately wants to be prime minister and
David has known that fact longer than most,” Coulson wrote.
“When Boris asked me to pass on the message that he was keen to
stand as mayor of London, David responded, ‘Well, if he wins,
he’ll want my job next.’”  ‘Off Brand’  “Stabbing David, or anyone else for that matter, in the
back would be distinctly off brand -- just not very Boris,”
Coulson wrote. “He would much prefer to see David fail
miserably in the election and ride in on his bike to save party
and country.”  Cameron faces re-election in May 2015. Johnson’s term as
London mayor lasts for a further 12 months after that. Johnson
offered Cameron qualified support today, saying he is
“increasingly confident” the premier will win the election.  “I’m grateful to  Andy Coulson  for his impeccable career
advice, but I’m backing David Cameron, who I’m absolutely
increasingly confident is going to win,” Johnson told reporters
in London. “Of course I’m backing David Cameron all the way.”  Coulson, a former editor of the News of the World tabloid,
is charged along with seven former News Corp. journalists and a
private investigator with conspiring to intercept voicemail to
get stories. He is also facing bribery charges as part of the
probe into wrongdoing at News Corp.’s U.K. unit. He is alleged
to have swapped cash for a palace phone directory for the royal
family and their staff, prosecutors said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in  London  at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Eddie Buckle at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net  