-- Julius Baer Tells American Clients of Information Request
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 2013-05-28T12:21:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/julius-baer-says-working-on-u-s-request-for-client-information.html
Julius Baer Group Ltd. (BAER) , Switzerland’s
third-largest wealth manager, informed some American clients
that their accounts meet the criteria of a U.S. request for data
amid a Justice Department offshore tax-evasion probe.  The U.S. Internal Revenue Service is seeking information on
accounts of Americans “owned through a domiciliary company”
and held at any time between the beginning of 2002 and the end
of last year, the Zurich-based bank wrote in a letter obtained
by Bloomberg News and dated May 16.  Julius Baer is working on a request for information from
Switzerland’s tax authority under a 1996 tax treaty with the
U.S., Sabine Jaenecke, a spokeswoman for the bank, said today.
She declined to comment on a report in Neue Zuercher Zeitung
that more than 100 Julius Baer clients were affected.  Julius Baer is one of at least 14 Swiss financial firms
 under investigation  by the Department of Justice for allegedly
helping Americans hide money from the IRS. A Swiss court ruled
in March that Switzerland could hand over account data under the
1996 tax deal, paving the way for information transfers by banks
and raising the possibility of a breakthrough in two-year-old
Swiss-U.S. talks to resolve the probe.  “The Swiss government is taking a broad interpretation of
the treaty to allow the handover of data in cases involving
offshore structures,” said Milan Patel, a former IRS trial
attorney who is now a partner at Zurich-based law firm Anaford
AG. “The banks seem willing to oblige to show they are
cooperating with the U.S. once the Swiss government approves the
turnover to avoid any violation under Swiss banking secrecy.”  Information Request  Julius Baer rose 0.9 percent to 38.72 Swiss francs as of
2:06 p.m. in Zurich, valuing the company at 8.7 billion francs
($9 billion) and extending this year’s advance to 20 percent.  “We confirm the receipt of a request for information from
the Federal Tax Administration in Switzerland based on the
effective double-taxation agreement between Switzerland and the
U.S.,” Jaenecke said in an e-mailed statement. “We are
currently working on the request from the Swiss authority.”  Switzerland, the biggest haven for offshore wealth, wants
to prevent another bank being indicted after Wegelin & Co.
pleaded guilty in a Manhattan federal court in January to
conspiring to help conceal more than $1.2 billion from the IRS.  While Julius Baer has said the size of a potential fine
remains unclear, legal and accounting costs related to the U.S.
matter totaled 38 million francs in 2012. The bank said last
year that it exited the U.S. private client business between
2009 and 2011.  Avoiding Prosecution  UBS AG (UBSN) , the biggest Swiss bank, avoided prosecution in 2009
by paying $780 million, admitting it fostered tax evasion and
giving the IRS data on more than 250 accounts. That deferred
prosecution agreement and the handover by UBS of a further 4,450
accounts set a precedent for current negotiations between the
two governments and for cooperation between the U.S. and the
individual companies.  Julius Baer approached U.S. officials in a bid to clinch an
agreement similar to that secured by UBS to shield it from
prosecution, Tages-Anzeiger reported today, citing “several
independent sources.” Swiss Finance Minister Eveline Widmer-Schlumpf wanted a political agreement with the U.S. to cover all
Swiss banks and barred Julius Baer from pursuing talks, the
newspaper reported.  The Swiss Federal Administrative Court in April last year
ruled that a U.S. request for information under the 1996 treaty
wasn’t precise enough, blocking the proposed handover of client
data by Credit Suisse Group AG. The court reversed that ruling
in March after a more detailed request from the IRS, Tages-Anzeiger reported that month.  Negotiator Quits  Widmer-Schlumpf said that the signing of an agreement to
resolve the offshore tax dispute with the U.S. was imminent,
Tages-Anzeiger reported last week. Michael Ambuehl,
Switzerland’s top negotiator with the U.S. on the tax deal, will
step down at the end of August.  Julius Baer is investing in onshore businesses in Europe
and in faster-growing  emerging markets  while it tries to resolve
issues with former U.S. customers. Raymond Baer, honorary
chairman of the firm, has led a special committee overseeing the
company’s cooperation with U.S. authorities after standing down
from the board of directors in April last year.  That’s allowed Chief Executive Officer  Boris Collardi  to
spend more time integrating Merrill Lynch’s non-U.S. wealth
management units acquired from Bank of America Corp. in August.  Julius Baer started transferring Merrill Lynch’s Hong Kong
and Singapore businesses to double the firm’s managed assets in
Asia, the bank  said  today. Julius Baer has already added 24
billion francs of Merrill assets, including units in
Switzerland, Uruguay,  Chile ,  Monaco  and Luxembourg. The deal may
boost assets by as much as 72 billion francs by 2015, the bank
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net ;
Catherine Bosley in Zurich at 
 cbosley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  