-- Krugman Feud With Reinhart-Rogoff Escalates as Austerity Debated
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2013-05-28T14:59:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/krugman-feud-with-reinhart-rogoff-escalates-as-austerity-debated.html
Nobel laureate  Paul Krugman  refused
to back down in a dispute with Harvard University economists
 Carmen Reinhart  and  Kenneth Rogoff  over a 2010 paper they wrote
that’s been used to justify austerity in the U.S. and  Europe .  Reinhart and Rogoff, in a May 25 letter posted on
Reinhart’s website, accused Krugman of “spectacularly uncivil
behavior” for asserting in an  article  published in the New York
Review of Books that they had withheld data from their research.
A day later, Krugman said the two have done little to dispel
what he called a  misconception  generated by their paper -- that
economies falter when debt levels exceed 90 percent of gross
domestic product.  “If the authors ever made an effort to correct this
misconception, or indeed if they have ever even acknowledged
that it’s a misconception, it was done very quietly,” Krugman
wrote in the May 26 article on the  New York  Times website. “I’m
sorry, but the failure to clear up this misconception has done a
great deal of harm.”  The Harvard economists acknowledged on April 17 that they
had inadvertently left some data out of their calculations in
the study, in response to a paper questioning their methods
released on April 15 by researchers from the  University of
Massachusetts  at Amherst. Still, the error didn’t change the
basic findings of their research, the Harvard economists said.  Debt Threshold  “Growth in a Time of Debt” concluded that countries with
public debt greater than 90 percent of GDP suffered measurably
slower economic growth. It has been cited by U.S. House Budget
Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan  and European Union Economic and
Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  in defense of their
arguments against high budget deficits.  Reinhart and Rogoff, in their  letter  to Krugman, criticized
him for asserting that the U.S. and U.K. have the “costless
option” of engaging in an open-ended fiscal expansion.  The Harvard economists said while they hadn’t advocated
austerity in the immediate wake of the subprime crisis that
began in 2007, “waiting 10 to 15 more years to deal with a
festering problem is an invitation for decay, if not necessarily
an outright debt crisis.”  Krugman’s assertions constituted “sloppy neglect on your
part to check the facts before charging us with a serious
academic ethical infraction,” Reinhart and Rogoff wrote.  The data he said they refused to share has been on the
Internet “for those doing research who care to look,” they
wrote. “So to accuse us of not sharing our data is an unfounded
attack on our academic and personal integrity.”  Blurred Distinction  Krugman, a Princeton University economist, countered that
they have continued to blur the distinction between growth that
tends to be slower in countries with debt of more than 90
percent of GDP and growth that’s sharply lower when debt reaches
that threshold.  “Austerity-minded policy makers, of course, seized on the
latter claim,” he wrote.  The economists’ debate is playing out from  Washington  to
Brussels as lawmakers and leaders clash over the need to rein in
budget deficits without choking growth.  As much as $85 billion of spending cuts this year started
on March 1 after Congress and President  Barack Obama  failed to
agree on a deal to postpone the reductions or come up with a
like amount of deficit reduction.  In the U.K., Prime Minister  David Cameron  says austerity
will have to continue well beyond 2015 as the  budget deficit  has
fallen by less than a third instead of the half the
Conservative-led government projected when it took office three
years ago. The  International Monetary Fund , which had backed his
handling of the economy, urged Britain last month to ease its
budget-cutting drive with growth only now starting to show signs
of revival.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  