-- MTN Is Said to Revive Indian Efforts With Acquisition Plan
-- B y   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r ,   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e   a n d   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-05-28T15:56:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/mtn-is-said-to-revive-indian-efforts-with-plans-for-acquisition.html
MTN Group Ltd. (MTN) , Africa’s largest
wireless carrier, is exploring a potential acquisition in India,
five years after it first tried to strike a deal with an Indian
company, according to four people familiar with the matter.  The Johannesburg-based carrier is evaluating assets in the
country, said the people, asking not to be identified because
the deliberations are private. The discussions could lead to a
revival of an attempt to link up with  Reliance Communications
Ltd. (RCOM) , the phone company of billionaire Anil Ambani that tried
unsuccessfully to merge with MTN in 2008, three people said.  MTN was twice in talks to be bought by another Indian
carrier, New Delhi-based  Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI) , until negotiations
broke down in 2009 amid political opposition in  South Africa .
Reliance Communications shares have fallen 74 percent and Bharti
Airtel is down 28 percent since those botched deals, while MTN
has jumped two-thirds since 2009 to give it a market value of
$35 billion, more than the two Indian companies combined.  “I wouldn’t be overjoyed” if MTN tries to revive a deal
in India, said Khulekani Dlamini, head of research at Afena
Capital, at MTN’s annual shareholder meeting today. “You’re
talking about a market where pricing cannot really get any
better and could possibly deteriorate further. It also has an
adverse impact for my dividend. If they go and have to spend a
lot more money there, it’s worrisome.”  Former CEO  MTN today named former Chief Executive Officer  Phuthuma Nhleko , who pushed MTN outside South Africa during his almost
nine-year tenure, as chairman to replace  Cyril Ramaphosa . With
197 million subscribers across more than 20 countries at the end
of April, MTN is the biggest carrier in Nigeria, although at
home in South Africa, its market share trails that of  Vodacom
Group Ltd. (VOD) , a  Vodafone Group  Plc unit.  A successful deal would give MTN its first major foothold
in  Asia , bringing it closer to matching the international reach
of Vodafone and Bharti Airtel. MTN could “quite comfortably”
fund an acquisition with debt and its own cash, said Bruce Main,
a  fund manager  at Ivy Asset Management Ltd. An obstacle would be
“the competitive environment in India, which is so aggressive
that the main mobile operators started slashing margins
substantially.”  Shares Drop  MTN closed 0.1 percent lower at 181.75 rand after sliding
as much as 1.9 percent on the Johannesburg exchange. Reliance
Communications dropped 1.2 percent in Indian trading.  Ambani is unlikely to exit Reliance Communications, India’s
third-largest wireless operator by customers, making an outright
takeover less probable, said one of the people.  Representatives at Reliance Communications and Ambani’s
office didn’t have a comment. In an e-mailed statement, MTN said
it doesn’t comment on “market speculation.”  MTN, led by CEO Sifiso Dabengwa, is seeking to expand
beyond  Africa  and the  Middle East  amid increased competition and
slowing growth in the region’s phone market. In the first
quarter, MTN’s monthly revenue per user in South Africa dropped
10 percent to 110.62 rand ($11.40) from a year earlier.  MTN is one of 12 operators shortlisted for the sale of two
telecommunications licenses in Myanmar and is looking for other
targets in southeast Asia.  Reliance Breakup  In 2008, talks to combine MTN with Mumbai-based Reliance
broke down amid disagreements between Anil Ambani and his
brother, Mukesh, who had split the Reliance business empire
after a public feud. Last month, the Ambani brothers signed a 12
billion rupee ($215 million) pact to share a fiber-optic
network, their first deal since breaking up Reliance.  Bharti Airtel is the largest mobile-phone company in India,
followed by  Vodafone Group (VOD)  and Reliance Communications,
according to February data from the country’s telecommunications
regulator. In 2010, Bharti Airtel expanded to Africa by buying
Kuwaiti carrier Zain’s African assets for $9 billion.  To be sure, India’s telecommunications market has proven
extremely challenging for foreign companies looking to tap its
growing middle class. Vodafone Group has been embroiled in a
long-running dispute over tax payments with Indian regulators,
and has said it isn’t planning on investing in high-speed
fourth-generation mobile services in the country amid confusion
over the future of its license there.  To contact the reporters on this story:
George Smith Alexander in Mumbai at 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  