-- MTN’s Nhleko Becomes Chairman Amid Revived India M&A Plans
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e ,   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   A n t o   A n t o n y
-- 2013-05-29T17:08:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/mtn-s-nhleko-takes-over-as-chairman-amid-revived-india-m-a-plans.html
Phuthuma Nhleko increased  MTN Group
Ltd. (MTN) ’s subscribers almost 30-fold during his near-nine year
tenure as chief executive officer and pushed the African
wireless carrier into countries such as Iran and  Syria . As he
becomes chairman today, one nation lingers in his mind: India.  Five years after first trying to strike a deal with a phone
company in India, Johannesburg-based MTN is evaluating assets in
the country, said four people familiar with the matter, asking
not to be identified because the deliberations are private. The
discussions could lead to a revival of an attempt to link up
with  Reliance Communications Ltd. (RCOM) , the carrier of billionaire
Anil Ambani that tried unsuccessfully to merge with MTN in 2008,
three of the people said.  MTN was twice in talks to be bought by another Indian
operator, New Delhi-based  Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI) , until negotiations
broke down in 2009 amid political opposition in South  Africa . A
successful deal this time would give MTN its first major
foothold in  Asia , bringing it closer to matching the
international reach of  Vodafone Group Plc. (VOD)   “It would make sense, to the extent that such an
opportunity presented itself, to look eastwards,” Nhleko said
in a late 2009 interview, after MTN ended merger talks with
Bharti. “Our natural bent and inclination would always be
Africa, the  Middle East , and, most probably, opportunities
further eastwards.”  Market Value  This time, MTN may have greater bargaining power. Reliance
Communications shares have fallen 74 percent and Bharti is down
28 percent since those botched deals through yesterday, while
MTN has jumped two-thirds since 2009 to give it a market value
of $35 billion, more than the two Indian companies combined.  Reliance Communications dropped 2 percent to 110.4 rupees
at the close of trading in  Mumbai , valuing the company at about
$4 billion. MTN declined 3.2 percent to 176 rand in
Johannesburg. The stock slid as much as 1.9 percent yesterday
after  Bloomberg News  reported the Indian plans.  “Buying Reliance won’t be cheap and it would be a really
difficult operation,” Khulekani Dlamini, head of research at
Afena Capital, said in the interview. “There’s an adverse
environment all around, the shareholders are not particularly
easy to do deal with. Its highly competitive, very fragmented,
regulatory concepts are very fluid in India which makes managing
the company very difficult.”  Funding Room  Ambani is unlikely to exit Reliance Communications, India’s
third-largest wireless operator by customers, making an outright
takeover less probable, said one of the people.  Representatives at Reliance Communications and Ambani’s
office didn’t have a comment. In an e-mailed statement, MTN said
it doesn’t comment on “market speculation.”  Bruce Main, a  fund manager  at Ivy Asset Management Ltd.,
said MTN could “quite comfortably” fund an acquisition with
debt and its own cash. An obstacle would be “the competitive
environment in India, which is so aggressive that the main
mobile operators started slashing margins substantially,” he
said.  MTN, led by CEO Sifiso Dabengwa, is seeking to expand
beyond Africa and the Middle East amid increased competition and
slowing growth in the region’s phone market. Last quarter, MTN’s
monthly revenue per user in  South Africa  dropped 10 percent to
110.62 rand ($11.30) from a year earlier.  Orascom Telecom  Nhleko, who replaces  Cyril Ramaphosa , took over at MTN in
2002 when the company had just over 5 million mobile subscribers
and operations in six countries including South Africa and
Cameroon. By the time he left, the customer count reached 147
million, tapping into countries including Syria, Iran and
 Afghanistan . In all, MTN has operations in 21 countries when
Nhleko stepped down in March 2011.  MTN expansion would have been faster if it wasn’t for
Nhleko’s failure to close four deals, including as much as $10
billion in assets of Orascom Telecom Holding SAE, over a two-year period.  Yesterday, MTN said its subscribers exceeded 197 million at
the end of April. MTN is the biggest carrier in  Nigeria ,
although at home in South Africa, its market share trails that
of  Vodacom Group Ltd. (VOD) , a Vodafone unit.  MTN is one of 12 operators shortlisted for the sale of two
telecommunications licenses in Myanmar and is looking for other
targets in southeast Asia.  Vodafone Taxes  In 2008, talks to combine MTN with Mumbai-based Reliance
broke down amid disagreements between Anil Ambani and his
brother, Mukesh, who had split the Reliance business empire
after a public feud. Last month, the Ambani brothers signed a 12
billion rupee ($215 million) pact to share a fiber-optic
network, their first deal since breaking up Reliance.  Bharti Airtel is the largest mobile-phone company in India,
followed by Vodafone and Reliance Communications, according to
February data from the country’s phone regulator. In 2010,
Bharti Airtel expanded to Africa by buying Kuwaiti carrier
Zain’s African assets for $9 billion.  India ’s telecommunications market has proven challenging
for foreign companies looking to tap its growing middle class.
Vodafone has been embroiled in a long-running dispute over tax
payments with Indian regulators, and has said it isn’t planning
on investing in high-speed fourth-generation mobile services in
the country amid confusion over the future of its license there.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Spillane in Johannesburg at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net ;
George Smith Alexander in Mumbai at 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net ;
Anto Antony in Mumbai at 
 aantony1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  