-- Nampak Says S. Africa First-Half Profit Fell 20% on Lower Prices
-- B y   K a m l e s h   B h u c k o r y
-- 2013-05-28T14:22:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/nampak-says-s-africa-first-half-profit-fell-20-on-lower-prices.html
Nampak Ltd. (NPK) ,  South Africa ’s biggest
packaging company, said profit in its home market declined 20
percent as weaker consumer spending offset growth in the rest of
 Africa . The shares fell the most in three years.  Operating profit before one-time items in South Africa fell
to 570 million rand ($58.7 million) in the six months through
March, compared with 711 million rand a year earlier, the
Johannesburg-based company said in a statement today. Revenue in
Africa’s biggest economy advanced 4 percent, compared with 19
percent in the rest of the continent.  The  shares  fell 10.2 percent by 4:18 p.m. in Johannesburg,
the most on an intraday basis for three years, paring gains for
the year to 4.8 percent.  “They didn’t provide guidance on how bad things are in
South Africa,” Mark Hodgson, an analyst at Cape Town-based
Avior Research Pty Ltd., said in a phone interview. “Clearly
there is a lot of margin pressure coming in.”  The South Africa profit fall was “primarily due to lower
selling prices agreed in the metals and glass businesses to
secure long-term supply contracts,” Nampak said. “The rest of
Africa is expected to continue generating good results but the
downturn in  consumer spending  in South Africa is anticipated to
continue.”  South Africa’s economy grew by an annualized 0.9 percent in
the first quarter, the slowest pace since a 2009 recession, as
manufacturing output slumped.  Nampak total first-half profit increased 16 percent to
775.2 million rand, while the company raised the half year
dividend by 4 percent to 42 cents a share.  Chief Executive Officer Andrew Marshall will retire from
the company in March 2014 after five years in charge, Nampak
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kamlesh Bhuckory in Johannesburg at 
 kbhuckory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  