-- NBA Board of Governors Approves Kings’ Sale to Ranadive Group
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-05-28T19:17:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/nba-board-of-governors-approves-kings-sale-to-ranadive-group.html
The National Basketball Association
Board of Governors unanimously approved the sale of the
 Sacramento  Kings to a group led by software billionaire Vivek Ranadive.  The transaction, announced two weeks ago pending league
approval, is expected to formally close shortly, the league said
today in an e-mailed release without giving a specific date.
Ranadive will become the league’s first Indian-born owner when
the purchase from the Maloof family is finished.  The group agreed to pay $347 million for a 65 percent stake
in the team, according to the Sacramento Bee. The deal includes
a plan for a new downtown arena and values the Kings at $535
million, the most expensive sale in league history.  The 55-year-old Ranadive is a native of  Mumbai  and founder
of  Tibco Software Inc. (TIBX)  NBA Commissioner David Stern has spoken
about interest in expanding into the world’s second most-populous country, including sponsored events and the possible
creation of an NBA-branded league.  Ranadive will sell his minority stake in the NBA’s Golden
State Warriors, who were sold in 2010 for $450 million, the
previous league record. His group, assembled by Kevin Johnson,
Sacramento’s mayor and a former NBA All-Star, includes 24 Hour
Fitness founder Mark Mastrov and former  Facebook Inc. (FB)  executive
Chris Kelly.  The Kings made the playoffs 10 times in 28 years in
Sacramento, advancing past the Western Conference semifinals
once. Attendance has been in the bottom fifth of the league for
the last six seasons. This year, the team went 28-54 and drew an
average home attendance of 13,749, a league low.  The sale includes a plan to build a $448 million arena
downtown in  California ’s capital city. The Maloofs reached a
deal with Sacramento in February 2012 to build an arena, only to
have the accord fall through within two months.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  