-- Neiman Marcus Takes Fight to ‘Intolerable’ Patent Suers
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2013-05-28T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/neiman-marcus-takes-fight-to-intolerable-patent-suers.html
To Neiman Marcus Group Inc.’s
lawyers, the letter from an unnamed inventor’s representative
offering to negotiate patent licenses after an “analysis” of
its technology was all too familiar.  Saying it was put in an “intolerable position,” the
Dallas-based luxury retailer filed a lawsuit against the sender
without knowing whom it was suing. Neiman Marcus asked a court
to require the patent owner be identified and to declare the
retailer didn’t infringe any patent.  “CEOs are having to make a decision between fighting a
case they believe is completely illegitimate or paying what
amounts to an extortionate demand,” David French, senior vice
president for government relations at the National Retail
Federation, a Washington-based trade group, said in an
interview.  Rising stakes in patent litigation over smartphones and
other technologies have led to an increase in businesses, often
derided as “trolls,” that make money by licensing patents
rather than providing products and services. A subset have found
that approaching users of technology, rather than the producers,
gets settlements that avoid the cost and risk of going to court.  Retailers, hotel owners and municipalities say they’re fed
up receiving royalty demands for using common technology like
Wi-Fi connections to the Internet, tracking customer shipments
and scanning documents to send via e-mail.  Forest, Trees  Some technology providers like Cisco Systems Inc., Adobe
Systems Inc., Google Inc. and Microsoft Corp. are filing
lawsuits seeking to invalidate patents owned by holders who’ve
gone after their customers. Lawsuits against users would be put
on hold if manufacturers intervene, under proposals by leaders
of judiciary committees in both houses of Congress.  “The demands for settlements are designed to be well below
the cost of litigation,” French said. “The lawyers know this
and that’s why they come after retailers.”  Neiman Marcus had no comment for this story because of the
litigation, said Ginger Reeder, a company spokeswoman.  ArrivalStar SA, a company based in Luxembourg that owns
patents for systems to track vehicles, has filed hundreds of
lawsuits against companies such as pharmacy retailer Rite Aid
Corp., railroad Union Pacific Corp., electronics maker Sharp
Corp. and even the city of Vacaville, California.  In most instances, the cases are quickly settled.  “Any company that we contact has actively gone out and
implemented our technology,” said  Anthony Dowell  of Taft
Stettinius & Hollister in Indianapolis, who represents
ArrivalStar, in an interview. “We would prefer to go after the
company that developed the technology and whenever we can, we
do. We want to go after the forest, the big picture, and not the
trees.”  Targeting Customers  Federal law says a patent infringer is anyone who makes,
sells or uses a protected invention. In 2008, the U.S. Supreme
Court limited patent holders from extracting royalties from
companies at each stage of the distribution process. That forced
them to choose where in the chain to make their legal stand.
They could go after manufacturers, distributors or customers,
not all three.  The court ruling “really started focusing people on the
customers,” said James Yoon, a patent lawyer with Wilson
Sonsini in Palo Alto,  California , in an interview. “If people
sued the suppliers and they settled, all the customers
downstream would be protected.”  Lawsuits like the one filed April 30 by Neiman Marcus are
rare because they cost a lot of money. A patent suit with less
than $1 million at stake typically incurred about $650,000 in
legal costs in 2011, according to a study by the American
Intellectual Property Law Association in Arlington, Virginia.  Loser Pays  As part of a 2011 law, Congress prevented patent owners
from filing one suit against dozens of companies, intending that
the cost of filing individual suits in multiple courts would
deter some cases. That makes it hard to quantify whether the
number of patent cases against end-user companies has grown.  Among the proposals in the U.S. House and Senate are ones
that would make patent owners pay legal costs if they lose a
case, increase reviews of software patents, and require patent
owners to provide more data rather than filing boilerplate
suits.  Retailers want more protections, including a requirement
that technology users can’t be sued unless the manufacturer is
named as well, French said.  Serial Pioneer  The late Jerome Lemelson, who owned patents related to
machines that scanned products for defects and prices, was a
pioneer in suing end users. He first sued automakers in the late
1990s and then pursued hundreds of retailers.  Before his patents were thrown out by an appeals court in
2005, a foundation in his name had collected more than $1.5
billion in settlements. The money has gone in part to pay for a
 program  at Massachusetts Institute of Technology and a  section 
of the Smithsonian’s National Museum of American History.  “He wanted to sue the deep-pocketed end users,” said
Jesse Jenner of Ropes & Gray in New York. Jenner represented the
manufacturers, including Cognex Corp., who joined to fight the
Lemelson patents. “Everybody has agreed it’s changed the nature
of patents and patent enforcement.”  Sending letters to companies asking them to talk about
specific patents can help avoid litigation, said Erich
Spangenberg, chief executive officer of IP Navigation Group LLC,
the Dallas-based patent licensing firm that sent the letter to
Neiman Marcus.  While he wouldn’t identify his client, Spangenberg said the
letter to the retailer was a “let’s talk” request that could
have resulted in no payments by Neiman Marcus. He said that
strategy helps avoid litigation and isn’t involved in the
“shakedown” tactics of mass letter-writers.  Court Guidance  The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit needs to
provide more guidance to judges on when to put the user suits on
hold, Yoon said. The appeals court, which handles all patent
cases, has backed sanctions against patent owners who file
frivolous suits or those seeking what the court has called
“nuisance value settlements,” he said.  Until there are changes in the law, “little guys need to
reach out to the community of other little guys to see if they
can’t get together into a joint defense group to spread out the
costs,” Jenner said.  The Senate bills are S.1013 and S.866. The House bills are
H.R. 845 and H.R. 2024.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  