-- New Zealand Names Managers for Biggest IPO of Meridian Shares
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2013-05-28T02:21:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/new-zealand-names-managers-for-biggest-ipo-of-meridian-shares.html
New Zealand  named three banks to
manage the sale of Meridian Energy Ltd. shares when the nation’s
biggest initial public offering proceeds in the second half of
this year.  The lead managers will be Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,
Macquarie Group Ltd. and a partnership of Deutsche Bank AG and
Craigs Investment Partners, the Treasury Department said in an
e-mailed statement.  Prime Minister John Key yesterday said the government
expects to raise about NZ$3 billion ($2.4 billion) from selling
as much as 49 percent of Meridian, the nation’s largest
electricity company. That will dwarf the NZ$1.7 billion from the
sale of almost half of Mighty River Power Ltd. earlier this
month, which was the first in the government’s asset sales
program.  Mighty River  shares  fell to as low as NZ$2.34 in Wellington
today after being issued to investors at NZ$2.50 apiece. Key
yesterday said he wasn’t concerned by the stock’s decline and
any implications for demand for Meridian shares.  “That’s something way into the future,” he said. “We are
comfortable where things are at.”  The government reserves the right to offer Meridian in two
separate sales depending on market conditions to ensure most of
it remains in local hands, Key said.  New Zealand also appointed UBS AG “to assist with
preparation” for an IPO for Genesis Power Ltd., Treasury said
today. No decision has been made on the timing of that sale and
further lead managers may be selected in coming weeks, it said.  Six firms are on a panel from which Treasury selects
managers. The others are a partnership of Credit Suisse Group AG
and First NZ Capital and a partnership of Merrill Lynch and
Forsyth Barr Ltd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  