-- Swann Bowls England to Test Cricket Series Sweep of New Zealand
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2013-05-29T01:05:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/new-zealand-reaches-219-8-at-lunch-on-last-day-of-england-test.html
Graeme Swann took a career-best 10
wickets for 132 runs to lead  England  to a 2-0 sweep of its Test
cricket series against New Zealand.  The home team needed 86 minutes in two separate passages of
play on the final day to take the last four New Zealand wickets
required for the 247-run victory. With England needing two
wickets following a rain stoppage, Swann removed Doug Bracewell
to become the first spin bowler to take 10 wickets in a Test at
Headingley, Leeds, since 1972. Paceman  James Anderson  then
wrapped up the win by dismissing Trent Boult.  England captain  Alastair Cook , whose team is unbeaten in
eight elite five-day matches, said the performance bodes well
for the Ashes series against  Australia  starting in July. He
praised man of the match Swann and Joe Root, who scored his
first Test century in the match.  “We’re in a good place,” Cook said in a news conference.
“Hopefully we can stay in form and we can stay fit.”  There’d been concern among fans that rain might cost
England victory after the home team didn’t impose the follow-on
after bowling New Zealand out for 174 in its first innings.
England then batted conservatively at the start of its second
innings and delayed the declaration until it was 467 runs ahead.  “We could have batted quicker on Sunday evening,” Cook
said. “I was a little nervous this morning but luckily we got
the time we needed.”  Final Day  New Zealand resumed the final day on 158-6 after a late
start because of rain. Black Caps captain Brendon McCullum was
caught and bowled by  Stuart Broad  after scoring one run, then
Tim Southee was dismissed for 38 by Swann.  New Zealand reached 219-8 when lunch was taken early as
rain halted play until 3 p.m. After the resumption, Swann had
Bracewell caught for 19 by  Ian Bell .  Neil Wagner and Boult put up staunch resistance in the
closing overs while England tried to get the final wicket
quickly in case the weather intervened again.  The breakthrough came when Anderson had Boult caught by
wicketkeeper Matt Prior. His 307th Test wicket put him level
with Fred Trueman, joint third on England’s all-time list.  Ross Taylor  was New Zealand’s top scorer with 70, while
Swann finished with 6-90, to follow his first-innings 4-42.  Swann praised the U.S.-based surgeon who’d operated on his
elbow to deal with an injury that kept him out of England’s
drawn Test series in  New Zealand  in March.  Career Saver  “The elbow feels great,” Swann said. “I’m very thankful
to the surgeon Shawn O’Driscoll. He probably saved my career.”  McCullum said the series exposed a “gulf” between the
teams as “England flexed their muscles.”  “England are formidable at home but we certainly had the
bowling attack to challenge them,” he said. “All of us
struggled with the bat to get the big score we needed, but we’ve
got the makings of a very good team.”  Cook led England with 130 runs in its second innings score
of 287-5 declared with Jonathan Trott making 76. Root scored 104
in the first innings after rain wiped out any play on day one.
England won the series opener by 170 runs at Lord’s in  London .  England will play three one-day internationals and two
Twenty20 games against New Zealand, as well as taking part in
the Champions Trophy, before the five-Test series against
Australia starts in Nottingham on July 10.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  