-- Nike to Cut Tie With Livestrong Charity Following Armstrong Exit
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2013-05-28T16:15:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/nike-to-cut-tie-with-livestrong-charity-following-armstrong-exit.html
Nike Inc. (NKE) , which helped Lance Armstrong build his Livestrong cancer charity into one of the
nation’s best-known brands, will cut ties with the organization
more than seven months after dropping the cyclist for his links
to performance-enhancing drug use.  Beaverton, Oregon-based Nike and Livestrong are dissolving
their partnership after nine years, having raised more than $100
million, the Austin, Texas-based charity said in a statement.  “This news will prompt some to jump to negative
conclusions about the foundation’s future,” Livestrong said in
the statement. “We see things quite differently. We expected
and planned for changes like this and are therefore in a good
position to adjust swiftly and move forward with our patient-focused work.”  E-mail and phone messages left for Mary Remuzzi, a
spokeswoman for Nike, seeking comment from the company weren’t
immediately returned.  Nike, the world’s largest sporting-goods company, signed a
five-year contract in 2010 to pay the  Lance Armstrong 
Foundation, now known as Livestrong, at least $7.5 million
annually from profits generated by merchandise sales, according
to Outside Magazine.  Along with a full line of apparel, Nike created the iconic
yellow plastic bracelets -- of which more than 80 million were
sold -- that became the symbol of Livestrong.  Nike said in a statement when it fired Armstrong in October
that it would continue to “support” Livestrong, without
elaborating.  Cancer Funds  Livestrong, founded by Armstrong in 1997, has served 2.5
million people affected by cancer and raised more than $500
million to support those affected by cancer, according to its
website.  Armstrong, the seven-time Tour de France winner who
survived testicular cancer before founding Livestrong, stepped
down as the organization’s chairman on the same day Nike dropped
him. In November, he resigned from Livestrong’s board.  In a January interview with  Oprah Winfrey , Armstrong said
he used performance-enhancing drugs throughout his career. He
also said he sued and attempted to undermine anyone who
attempted to divulge his secrets. Armstrong made at least $221
million since turning professional, according to a compilation
of his earnings by  Bloomberg News .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  