-- Noyer Says Negative Rates ‘Technically Very Delicate’: Interview
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2013-05-28T15:32:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/noyer-says-negative-rates-technically-very-delicate-interview.html
European Central Bank Governing
Council member Christian Noyer comments on negative interest
rates and lending in the euro area. He made the comments in a
Bloomberg News interview in Paris today.  On a negative ECB interest rates:  “We have prepared that so in case of need we could
implement it. But when we look at what happens. The market
interest rates overnight in the euro zone is between zero and
0.10, which is very close to the market interest rates in
America, in  Japan , in Britain etc. Would that help to have
negative rates? No other major monetary zone has tried it.  ”There have been experiences in the past, like in
Switzerland or more recently in  Denmark . Not all are convincing.
In some cases it even tended to trigger an increase in the rates
of credit because the banks were compensating for a loss they
were getting on their deposits with the central bank. So this is
technically very delicate. I’m personally not convinced there
would be an interest in doing that. We’ll see, but for the
moment, it is the reason it has not been done so far.”  On bank lending and a shift to securitization in the euro zone:  “I think so. This is a general tendency that has a little
bit accelerated during the crisis.  “It’s more true in France or  Germany  than other countries
because the banks were more ready and solid to do it. By the way
this is one of the key reasons -- if not the key reason -- while
I’ve always been in favor of keeping our model of universal
banks because I think it’s absolutely essential that these
banks, which function really well with that model, are able to
take their clients and bring them to the markets with all the
available instruments as needed.  “Of course this is done relatively easily with big
corporates. Even it starts to be done with medium sized
corporates. It’s more difficult for the SMEs. This is why we are
working at present on that issue. We are well advanced in  France 
where we have set up and chaired a working group on that,
including not only French banks but international banks and
foreign banks. Some of them are extremely interested.  “We’re trying to create a sort of conduit -- clear
transparent, plain vanilla -- that could be built on the
securitization of credit to small- and medium-sized enterprises,
and then sold to investors, used as collateral.”  “I would not bet on the exact figure but I think the trend
is there.”  On French economic reforms:  “This is the second year we’ll probably have growth close
to zero and increasing unemployment, so it’s clear that the
change in the economic trend is an absolute and urgent
necessity. We have concentrated this year -- the main messages
we traditionally give in the annual report on the issue on how
to combine better growth, better employment and nevertheless
consolidation of public finances.”  On the risk of a euro breakup:  “The risk of redenomination, of explosion of the euro area
has disappeared, thanks to all the measures that have taken by
the governments individually and collectively and by the ECB.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  