-- Noyer: Tobin Tax Would Hurt Markets Without Raising Money
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2013-05-28T13:07:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/noyer-tobin-tax-would-hurt-markets-without-raising-money.html
The European Union’s proposed
financial-transaction tax may not generate any revenue because
of the market damage it would cause, European Central Bank
Governing Council member  Christian Noyer  said.  “The analyses we’ve done show that the project, as it has
been prepared by the commission, will first of all raise nothing
at all, there’ll be no revenue,” Noyer told reporters in Paris
today.  “The immediate effect will be either to destroy financial
sectors” such as the repurchase agreement market, or to create
conditions in which “the cost of borrowing in the real economy
will increase for everyone,” Noyer said. He also flagged
concerns that the plan would hurt the ECB’s monetary
transmission channels, a concern raised by others on the central
bank’s governing panel.  The EU has proposed a broad-based tax on stocks, bonds,
derivatives and other trades that could be collected worldwide
by  France ,  Germany  and nine other EU nations, including  Belgium ,
that have so far signed up. The European Commission so far has
resisted calls to exclude  government bonds  from the proposed
levy, saying it wants to limit exceptions to make the tax hard
to avoid.  Noyer, who leads the Bank of France, said taxing secondary-market bond trades would encourage investors to trade outside
the EU or make it “very significantly” more expensive for
governments and companies to finance themselves.  Bundesbank board member Andreas Dombret also raised
concerns about the proposal today, in a  speech  posted on the
German central bank’s website. He said the plan clashes with
global efforts to make sure banks have enough liquidity to
survive financial shocks without triggering a crisis.  “Regulation sets new requirements in order to protect the
banking system against a shortage of liquid assets,” Dombret
said. “At the same time, a financial-transaction tax is
envisaged that might have drastic effects on the liquidity on
some important markets.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  