-- Iran Nuclear Program a Platform for Jalili Election Bid
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i   a n d   Y e g a n e h   S a l e h i
-- 2013-05-29T12:13:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/nuclear-iran-is-platform-for-negotiator-jalili-s-presidency-bid.html
Saeed Jalili, the face of  Iran ’s
nuclear ambitions as the Islamic republic’s chief negotiator, is
running for president on his record of defying global pressure
to curtail the program.  Iran is “standing up to oppressive powers,” and
interlocutors have “surrendered” in the face of its
determination to continue with nuclear work, Jalili told state
television on May 25, days after official campaigning began for
the June 14 vote. “They want to secure what they already have.
But we want to break through, to make progress in science and
nuclear technology,” he said.  Jalili, 47, is one of eight candidates identified by the
election watchdog, the Guardian Council, as loyal enough to the
Islamic republic’s tenets to participate in the race. Most are
close allies of Supreme Leader  Ayatollah Ali Khamenei , who takes
the final decisions on affairs of state and has signaled he
wants Iran’s establishment to present a  united front  during the
contest. After the last vote in 2009, protests broke out amid
claims that  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad ’s victory over a reformist
leader was engineered by ballot fraud.  The closing of ranks, which saw two of the highest-profile
candidates excluded during the vetting process, comes as Iran’s
economy suffers under international sanctions.  Oil output  is the
lowest since the 1980s, the currency has plunged and  inflation 
is surging. With talks on a nuclear accord still deadlocked,
military action by the U.S. or Israel remains a threat.  ‘Very Traumatic’  If Jalili emerges as frontrunner, it would suggest Iran is
undeterred by the “very traumatic impact on the economy” from
sanctions, said Farideh Farhi, an Iran analyst and lecturer at
the University of Hawaii at Manoa. It would show “that Khamenei
is not willing to change direction and wants to follow the same
path. It’s an important message for a part of the population
which had been hoping for a redirection.”  The U.S. and  Israel  say they are ready to use force to
ensure Iran can’t obtain atomic weapons, if diplomacy and
sanctions don’t persuade the Islamic republic to rein in its
nuclear work. Iran says the program is for civilian purposes
including energy and medical research.  Jalili isn’t the only nuclear negotiator who’s running for
president. Hassan Rohani, the preferred candidate of Iran’s
leading reformist politicians, held the job in the early 2000s.  ‘It’s a Lie’  Rohani defended his record on a May 27 television show that
showed how central to the campaign the nuclear issue is. Accused
by the anchor of halting the program, Rohani fired back: “What
you said is a lie, and you know it’s a lie.” He then listed the
technical progress and increase in the number of centrifuges
achieved during his watch.  Jalili, in negotiations with the U.S. and allies, has
indicated Iran would consider limiting the scope of nuclear work
in return for recognition of its right to enrich uranium, and
the lifting of some sanctions. Jalili said on May 16 that Iran
is ready “to pursue talks any time.”  At an election rally in Tehran on May 24, Jalili sounded
less conciliatory.  “The more unyielding we are, the less greedy the enemy
will be,” he told a crowd of about 3,000, mostly students and
war veterans, who chanted “No compromise, no surrender, we are
Jalili’s companions” as he arrived. More accustomed to backroom
negotiations than public oratory, Jalili was hesitant at the
start of his talk, and spoke without the dramatic gestures and
rhetorical flourishes of Ahmadinejad.  ‘Average Joe’  That’s one problem with his candidacy, said Anoush Ehteshami, professor of international relations at Durham
University in  England . “He looks good to the establishment, not
to the average Joe in the streets.”  Iranian newspaper readers are used to seeing Jalili
photographed in a suit, standing alongside foreign officials at
nuclear meetings. He’s started trying to tweak that image. At
the Tehran rally he was wearing a loose shirt and pants, and
when he showed up to register for the election he was in a
Pride, a  mid-range model  by local carmaker SAIPA, according to
local news reports.  Jalili is on solid ground when it comes to Iran’s elite,
said Ehteshami. “He’s been at the heart of the Supreme National
Security Council for years and has deep reach into the organs of
power,” he said. He’s “regarded as trustworthy by the supreme
leader” and won’t “overstep his role as president.”  That’s no longer true of Ahmadinejad, who has publicly
quarreled with top officials and been attacked for showing
rebelliousness toward Khamenei. Ahmadinejad said he had no plans
to endorse Jalili, Donya-e-Eqtesad newspaper reported today.  ‘My Candidate’  Jalili’s perceived loyalty plays well with some voters.  “Jalili is my candidate because he follows our supreme
leader’s orders on the nuclear issue,” said Afsaneh Jadidi, a
23 year-old psychology student who attended the Tehran rally.
“We want a president who listens and does what the leader
says.”  Born in the northeastern city of Mashhad, also Khamenei’s
hometown, Jalili lost part of a leg fighting in the eight-year
 Iran-Iraq war  that ended in 1988. He holds a doctorate in
political science from Tehran’s Imam Sadegh University, where he
wrote his thesis on the foreign policy of the Prophet Mohammad,
according to Press TV.  He has served in Khamenei’s office and at the Foreign
Ministry, where he was deputy minister for European and American
affairs. In 2007 he became secretary of Iran’s Supreme National
Security Council.  Khamenei Favorites  Jalili “is supported by the most conservative factions of
the establishment” and has strong links with the Revolutionary
Guard Corps, Iran’s elite military force, said Jamie Ingram, an
analyst at IHS Jane’s in  London . Along with Ali Akbar Velayati,
Khamenei’s longtime foreign policy adviser, Jalili appears to be
one of the supreme leader’s favorites in the race, Ingram said.  For all the hardline rhetoric, a Jalili presidency wouldn’t
necessarily mean continued deadlock on the nuclear issue, Farhi
said. Whoever wins, concessions from Iran will depend “on the
other side showing flexibility on the question of easing
sanctions.”  Still, she said, “the U.S. may be willing to be more
flexible if another candidate wins the election.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  