-- NYC Commuters Ride to Work as Public Bikeshare Begins
-- B y   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z
-- 2013-05-28T18:22:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/nyc-commuters-roll-to-work-as-public-bikeshare-begins.html
New York  City’s newest public-transit
option, which allows commuters to rent bicycles to get to work,
got its first real road test today as businesses reopened after
the Memorial Day holiday weekend.  Tim McGlinn, a 44-year-old equities analyst at U.S. Steel &
Carnegie Pension Fund, stuck his blue plastic key in the docking
station outside Pennsylvania Station this morning to release one
of 25 gleaming new two-wheelers for the first time. He takes the
train from Maplewood,  New Jersey , each day and had longed for
the opportunity to swap his subway trip for a bike ride on the
two-mile trek uptown to his office.  “I expect to use it most days when it’s not raining,”
McGlinn said after his journey, during which passersby flashed
him thumbs-ups. “I expect to save money, although that’s not
the primary reason why I’m doing it -- it’s just nicer.”  Bike-share systems have cropped up in recent years in
cities across the U.S. and the world, including Washington and
Paris, as an environmentally friendly alternative to cars and
other mass transit that gives users the bonus of a workout.  New York’s version opened yesterday for people who
purchased annual memberships, as most businesses were closed for
the Memorial Day holiday. The first of 6,000  Citigroup Inc (C) .-
sponsored bicycles available from 330 solar-powered docking
depots in  Manhattan  south of 59th Street and in sections of
 Brooklyn  will open to the riding public next week.  Saddling Up  “Citi Bike isn’t just a bike network,” Commissioner
Janette Sadik-Khan of the city Department of Transportation said
yesterday at a news conference. “It’s  New York City ’s first new
public-transit system in more than 75 years.”  The program is set to expand to other parts of Manhattan
and Brooklyn and into Queens, with a goal of 10,000 bikes and
600 stations.  Annual passes cost $95 -- $17 less than the cost of an
unlimited monthly subway pass -- and grant users access to an
unlimited number of rides lasting 45 minutes. More casual users
can purchase 24-hour access for $9.95 and seven-day access for
$25, for an unlimited number of 30-minute rides. Timers reset
once the bikes are returned to any station. Longer trips are
discouraged and cost extra.  Outlaw Bikers  Some people have criticized the program, saying that the
docking stations take away parking spots and complicate truck
deliveries for businesses, cyclists don’t follow traffic rules,
the city is too car-centric and the addition of more bikes on
the road will cause accidents.  The program had also been plagued by delays because of
faulty software and physical destruction of some units caused by
 Hurricane Sandy ’s floodwaters last year.  The maiden voyage hasn’t been without challenges. Some
users had trouble releasing the bikes from their docking
stations before learning that the trick is to lift it by the
seat. Yesterday, users attempting to redock at the South
Ferry/Whitehall station were unable to lock bikes back into
place. At least 20 stood unlocked. Seth Solomonow, a spokesman
for the Department of Transportation, said the issue was present
at only that one location and has since been addressed.  Swiped Cycle  Yesterday, a bike was stolen before workers delivering a
set to a rack in Manhattan had secured them, though it was
recovered within a few hours, Solomonow said. No other “major
issues” have been reported, he said.  “Citi Bike has arrived and we’ll be spending the coming
days and weeks making it work even better for more riders,”
Sadik-Khan said today in an e-mail.  As of 11 a.m. local time today, users had logged more than
29,000 miles on 12,000 trips, according to the department. More
than 18,000 people have signed up for annual memberships.  Private companies, not taxpayers, are behind its funding:
Citigroup, the New York-based bank, is contributing $41 million
to be the chief sponsor and namesake, and  MasterCard Inc. (MA)  is
behind the program’s $6.5 million payment system. Profits are to
be split with the city. The program will create 170 jobs and
generate $36 million in local economic activity each year,
according to Mayor  Michael Bloomberg , who is founder and
majority owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  A docking station today near downtown Brooklyn, at the
intersection of Bond and Schermerhorn streets, became an object
of curiosity for passersby who ogled it and snapped photos with
smartphones. One woman used a bikeless unit as a purse rest.  Eric Rice stopped to inspect, happily deciding that the
bikes looked sturdy. The 45-year-old building maintenance worker
said he plans to purchase a membership soon.  “I don’t think they’ll rust after weeks of being out in
the rain,” he said. “Especially in the summer, I’d rather ride
one of these across the Brooklyn Bridge than be stuck in the hot
subway.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Esme E. Deprez in New York at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  