-- Obama Should Start Sweating the Small Stuff
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 2013-05-28T22:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/obama-should-start-sweating-the-small-stuff.html
President  Barack Obama  likes doing
the big things. This is, after all, the man who  claimed that  his
victorious 2008 campaign was “the moment when the rise of the
oceans began to slow and our planet began to heal.”  He was roundly (and rightly) derided for the grandiosity of
that statement. But it’s true that he has done some big things
well: speeches, health-care reform, even bipartisan gestures, as
Republican Governor  Chris Christie  of  New Jersey  can attest.  The president is not, however, always so good at the little
things. It’s why the scandal at the  Internal Revenue Service  has
been so damaging: It’s as if big blunders by a second-tier
agency aren’t something he should trouble his gray head about.  Like most Democrats, Obama wants Americans to trust
government to do big things well. Therefore the president might
try a kind of  broken-windows theory  of governing: Fix the small
things first and the big things will follow.  By that measure, he would have been invested in making the
IRS work. It is the federal agency that most resembles a state’s
Department of Motor Vehicles, intersecting with the most
citizens the most often. Shorten a few tax forms, and the
president could instantly improve the reputation of an annual
and feared irritant in the side of every citizen.  No Oversight  Because Obama is Too Big To Fret over the little things,
they often get Too Big To Fix by the time he does. The current
IRS scandal arose not because there was impermissible political
interference, but because there wasn’t enough political
oversight. Obama hadn’t appointed an IRS commissioner who would
have his back and could have sniffed out a political problem.  Instead, Obama let the most sensitive agency continue under
the direction of the previous president’s appointee,  Douglas Shulman . When Shulman testified in March 2012 about the extra
scrutiny given to  Tea Party  groups applying for tax-exempt
status, he knew nothing about nothing. He wasn’t pressed by a
Republican committee as a Democrat might have been. (Aside: Why
do people assume that only Democrats would want to hobble the
Tea Party? It is much more of a thorn in the side of the
Republican establishment.)  The scrutiny was necessary to stop the scam of political
groups dressing themselves up in social-welfare clothing to get
special tax status.  An examination  of applications by the  New
York  Times shows that some of the groups targeted were openly
engaged in political activities.  The only mistake the IRS made was its method. An astute
political appointee would have known the  Citizens United
decision  would send a flood of applicants the IRS’s way. He
would have known many of them would be bogus. But he would have
seen this ham-handed shortcut for what it was, and found another
way.  Obama does have another chance to make a big effort to save
an important agency and help restore faith in government. The
Department of  Veterans Affairs  doesn’t touch as many lives as
the IRS, but it does touch ones Americans feel most indebted to.
There are more than  22 million  veterans in the U.S., many of
them elderly and suffering, and almost 900,000 unanswered
medical and disability claims.  About once a week since Obama took office, there has been a
public shaming about this problem, which predates Obama but
bedevils his administration. It’s the sort of issue that demands
that the guy in charge roll up his sleeves -- maybe Obama can
roll up Veterans Affairs Secretary Eric Shinseki’s sleeves for
him -- and get computers that work to tackle claims so old some
are filled out in triplicate on paper.  New Oversight  Democratic Senator Barbara Mikulski of  Maryland , chairwoman
of the Senate Appropriations Committee, has already  rolled up
her sleeves . She dragged Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel, Shinseki
and everyone else with authority before her committee last week
to stop the “slacking and dragging” as a way to “commemorate
Memorial Day.” For each agency, there will be one person whose
job is to focus on the claims. They’ll have to report to one
another and to Mikulski every 60 days.  Shame and heart-rending stories haven’t broken the logjam
so far: The VA has 839,000 pending claims, including 559,000
that are more than 125 days old and 205,000 backlogged more than
a year. Concentrating responsibility at the top and having a
four-star general watching over just might work.  And there is Mikulski herself, of course. If I had to
choose one person to solve an intractable problem, it would be
her. But even she could use more support from the president.  ( Margaret Carlson  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Margaret Carlson at   mcarlson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 