-- Oil Probe That EU Says Mirrors Libor May Reveal Huge Damage
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2013-05-28T14:42:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/oil-market-rigging-may-have-caused-huge-damages-almunia-says.html
Oil-price manipulation may have
wrought “huge” damage to consumers, the European Union’s
antitrust chief said today, as he drew comparisons with EU
investigations into rigging of bank rates including Libor.  While it’s too soon to draw conclusions from the May 14
raids on  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  BP Plc (BP/) ,  Statoil ASA (STL)  and Platts,
EU Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  said both sets of
probe target price manipulation through a reporting system.  EU antitrust regulators arrived unannounced at Platts as
well as at  oil companies  in its investigation into possible
collusion by traders. Platts, whose U.K. operations at Canary
Wharf are in the same building as BP offices, provided data and
is cooperating with the inquiry. It continues to publish
benchmark prices including North Sea Dated Brent, against which
more than half the world’s crude is valued.  “We are still in the first steps of the procedure,”
Almunia said. “If de facto the manipulation is confirmed,” it
would have led to “huge” damage to consumers, he said.  The three oil companies have all said they are cooperating
with the commission. Speaking two days after the antitrust
raids, Statoil Chief Executive Officer  Helge Lund  said the
company has “zero tolerance” for breaches of the rules. Shell
is committed to the “highest standard of corporate behavior,”
CEO  Peter Voser  said May 21.  The EU oil probe, which extends to undisclosed crude-derived products and biofuels, underscores how pricing in some
energy markets lacks the transparency of financial products such
as stocks and U.S. corporate bonds. It also marks the third time
global pricing benchmarks have drawn the regulators’ scrutiny in
the past year following investigations into bank manipulation of
the London interbank offered rate, or Libor, and ISDAFix, the
benchmark for the $379 trillion swaps market.  Financial Sector  “To some extent this problem has similarities with the
benchmarks in the financial sector and with the investigations
we are carrying out on Libor, Euribor and Tibor cases,” Almunia
said, referring to EU probes into those financial benchmarks.  “In these investigations -- as in the Libor and Euribor
cases -- our goal is to make sure that the companies have not
colluded to manipulate their prices through a reporting
system,” he said.  The EU’s investigations into benchmarks are running
alongside ones by U.S. and U.K. regulators who uncovered
widespread attempts by banks to manipulate Libor.  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc ,  UBS AG (UBSN) , and  Barclays Plc (BARC)  have been fined
about $2.5 billion and at least a dozen firms remain under
investigation.  ‘Millions’ Hit  Almunia’s comments on the possible magnitude of the oil
market rigging follow those of his top aide, Alexander Italianer, who said last week “millions of Europeans” could
have been affected by the behavior under investigation.  “Our goal here is to make sure that these companies have
not colluded to manipulate the prices for oil and biofuel
products or prevented other companies from participating in the
price-assessment process,” Italianer said at a speech in Dublin
on May 24.  Platts, a unit of New York-based  McGraw Hill Financial
Inc. (MHFI) , provides benchmark assessments on physical markets, using
data on actual trades and its own editorial judgment. Bloomberg
LP, the parent of  Bloomberg News , competes with Platts and other
companies in providing energy markets news and information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Brussels at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  