-- London Terror Suspect Is in Custody After Release From Hospital
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2013-05-29T00:08:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/london-terror-suspect-in-custody-after-release-from-hospital.html
One of the two suspects in the murder
of U.K. soldier Lee Rigby was released from the hospital and
taken into custody at a  London  police station.  The 22-year-old man, identified by the BBC as Michael
Adebowale, was shot by police at the scene of the attack in
southeast London last week. He was additionally arrested
yesterday on suspicion of attempting to murder a police officer,
the  Metropolitan Police Service  said in a statement.  The attack, which took place on a busy road in broad
daylight, has heightened tensions over security in Britain and
raised fresh fears of home-grown terrorism. Rigby was stabbed
with knives and cleavers in the neighborhood of Woolwich, across
the street from an army barracks. Police are treating the case
as an act of terrorism.  London police have arrested 10 people in the probe into
Rigby’s death, including Adebowale and a 28-year-old man at the
scene. The second man at the scene, who has been identified by
the  BBC  and other U.K. media as Michael Adebolajo, remains in a
London hospital.  Video footage  showed a man, his hands covered in blood and
holding a cleaver and a knife, speaking after the attack. “We
must fight them as they fight us,” he said in a London accent.
“An eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth. Your people will never
be safe. Remove your government, they don’t care about you.”  Paris Attack  A similar attack was carried out in Paris on May 25 when a
23-year-old French soldier was stabbed while patrolling near the
Metro station in La Defense, a business district on the western
edge of  France ’s capital. The French soldier’s injuries weren’t
life threatening.  Eight other suspects have been arrested in the London case,
seven of whom were released. Five people have been bailed,
pending further inquiries and two were let go without charges.  The hospitalization of the two main suspects had given
police extra time to investigate Rigby’s killing before facing a
deadline to charge them. Now that one has been released, police
will have 36 hours to file charges against him or seek an
extension from a judge to hold him in custody.  Rigby, father of a 2-year-old son, was a drummer in the 2nd
Battalion of the Royal Regiment of Fusiliers. A fan of the
Manchester United soccer team, he served as a machine gunner in
Cyprus and then in 2009 as a member of a fire support group in
Helmand province,  Afghanistan .  Around 500 police officers and other investigators,
including members of counterterrorism units from forces around
the country, are working on the case, U.K. Home Secretary
Theresa May has said.  The British government has also assembled a  task force  on
terrorism that will consider whether the state needs wider
authority to ban such organizations and prevent the messages of
extremist preachers from reaching the public, May said May 26 on
the BBC’s “Andrew Marr Show.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  