-- London’s Irish Exiles Turn Failing Economy Into Sporting Success
-- B y   D a r a   D o y l e
-- 2013-05-28T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/london-s-irish-exiles-turn-failing-economy-into-sporting-success.html
Ireland’s troubles are  London ’s
opportunity, at least when it comes to Gaelic football.  The U.K. capital’s team will play Leitrim in the semifinal
of the Connacht Championship next month after winning its first
game in the competition since 1977. The tournament is a gateway
into the All-Ireland Championship, which will climax in
September with a  final  in front of 80,000 people in Dublin. Most
of the 15-man group arrived in  London  during the last four
years, many as a result of Ireland’s near financial collapse,
said Declan Flanagan, a spokesman for the club.  “We have definitely seen an upsurge,” said Flanagan,
originally from Monaghan in the northeast of Ireland. “The
economic downturn has had a significant impact. We’ve seen a lot
more professional, better-educated guys arrive.”  The  exodus  follows the implosion of Ireland’s real-estate
bubble, which plunged the country into its worst recession on
record. In all, about 300,000 people left the country of 4.6
million in the four years through April 2012, according to the
country’s statistical office. Many are devotees of Gaelic
football, which is a cross between soccer, rugby and basketball.  Leitrim, from the northwest of Ireland, represents the
other side of the coin, losing as many as half its squad to
emigration last year, said Diarmuid Sweeney, who chairs the
board that runs Leitrim’s Gaelic games.  “It was a problem for us, like for every parish in
Ireland,” Sweeney said.  Glasgow Celtic  Much of Ireland’s history has been marked by emigration,
and that’s left an impression on the sporting landscape across
the  Irish Sea . In 1888, Brother Walfrid, a Marist catholic,
founded  Celtic  Football Club in Glasgow, while migrants formed
London Irish rugby club a decade later.  After a respite during the nation’s  Celtic Tiger  economy,
the outflow of people has resumed as unemployment rose to 15
percent. While many head to the U.S., Australia and  Canada ,
about 67,000 people have moved to the U.K. from Ireland over the last
four years, according to the statistics office.  The influx is benefiting the Gaelic clubs in the U.K.
capital, which number about 30. In all, they have about 3,000
members, and the best players from each club make up the London
side, which plays at Ruislip in the northwest of the city.  “Before the crash, we would have 18 or 19 people out
training,” said Flanagan. “Now it’s 26 to 30 people.”  Founded in 1884, the Gaelic Athletic Association’s aim is
to strengthen the country’s national identity by promoting
Gaelic football and hurling, another 15-a-side game and similar
to a combination of field hockey and lacrosse.  Worldwide  The games have spread across the world, from the
skyscrapers in  Hong Kong  to the beaches of the  Cayman Islands .
Some 80 clubs have mushroomed in the U.S., while the Cayman
outfit has about 170 members, the GAA’s website shows.  Renewed off-the-field strength is now translating into
success on the field. London beat Sligo by a single point at the
ground in Ruislip. London, along with  New York , plays in the
Connacht championship in addition to the four Ireland-based
sides. The next assignment comes on June 23, as the club travels
to the town of Carrick-on-Shannon in Leitrim, a district
struggling with the effects of the exodus.  Leitrim lost 14 players last year, manager Barney Breen
said in a January interview with state broadcaster  RTE , adding
the squad had been “absolutely obliterated.”  Breen pleaded for employers to find jobs for six other
players contemplating departing. Some had banking
qualifications, while others had finance and engineering
degrees. The plea worked, and jobs were found.  “There is a danger the wave of emigration could happen
again,” said Sweeney. “But it looks like it’s petering out.
There are still guys going, but not as many.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dara Doyle in Dublin at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  