-- Honduran Street Gangs Sign Truce in World’s Most Violent City
-- B y   A d a m   W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-05-28T21:49:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/honduran-street-gangs-sign-truce-in-world-s-most-violent-city.html
Leaders of Honduran street gangs Mara
Salvatrucha and Barrio 18 signed a “zero crimes, zero
violence” truce to reduce violence in the Central American
nation.  A meeting between gang members was held at the Sampedrano
prison in the northern city of San Pedro Sula, which had the
world’s highest homicide rate last year with 169 murders per
100,000 residents, according to Mexico-based  think tank  Citizen
Council for Public Security, Justice and Peace.  Facilitated by Bishop Romulo Emiliani and Adam Blackwell,
secretary for multidimensional security at the  Organization of
American States , leaders of the Mara Salvatrucha, known as MS-13, and Barrio 18 spoke to a group of reporters and pledged to
reduce violence between the gangs, according to audio provided
by Honduran radio HRN.  Emiliani, who is the assistant bishop of the San Pedro Sula
archdiocese, said he began meeting with gang members months ago
in hopes of signing an accord similar to that of a gang truce in
 El Salvador  last year. Since the pact between the El Salvadorian
branches of MS-13 and Barrio 18 in March 2012, homicides have
fallen by more than 48 percent, according to the public security
ministry.  “All this is a long, exhausting process of much patience
and many frustrations,” Emiliani said, according to the audio.
The Honduran government will support Emiliani and the truce “by
all means necessary,” Honduran President Porfirio Lobo said in
a statement released last night.  Honduras  has one of the world’s highest homicide rates,
with 86 out of every 100,000 citizens suffering violent deaths
in 2012, according to the Violence Observatory at Honduras’s
National Autonomous University. About 79 percent of cocaine
smuggling flights to the U.S. from South America first land in
Honduras, according to a State Department  report  last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Williams in  San Jose ,  Costa Rica  at 
 awilliams111@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  