-- Too-Big-to-Fail Banks Need Bailout Pledge, Danish Council Says
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2013-05-28T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/too-big-to-fail-banks-need-bailout-pledge-danish-council-says.html
Banks identified as systemically
important need an explicit guarantee of state backing to match
their extra  capital requirements , according to Denmark’s
Economic Council.  March 14 proposals by a government-backed committee on how
to treat Denmark’s too-big-to-fail lenders should make clear
that the state would be willing to bail them out, said  Claus
Thustrup Kreiner , co-chair of the government-backed council in
Copenhagen. Vagueness in the existing text will only deter bond
investors and raise bank funding costs, he said.  “The moral hazard issue is created as soon as any level of
government support is introduced,” Kreiner said in an interview.
“We prefer to have clarity and transparency over uncertainty and 
to make the public backing explicit.”  The Economic Council is adding its voice to a debate that
has pitted  Denmark ’s biggest banks against its policy makers.
The six lenders identified by a public committee as too big to
fail say they need to be shielded from Danish bail-in laws for
their designation to be meaningful. The government and central
bank counter that such a step would encourage banks to take
greater risks and place too big a burden on the state.  “The challenge is to match government guarantees to
capital requirements,” Kreiner said. That will help “avoid
making state backing a competitive advantage,” he said.  Housing Bubble  The Association of Danish Mortgage Banks is holding a town
hall today in an effort to persuade lawmakers to soften the Sifi
proposals. The event will seek to show how the recommendations
risk raising  capital costs  and withholding credit from an
economy struggling to recover from a burst housing bubble and a
spate of regional  bank failures , according to the association’s
deputy director, Peter Jayaswal.  The March proposals, which have yet to be passed by
lawmakers, seek to raise capital requirements for systemically
important financial institutions by as much as 5 percentage
points. Committee Chairman Michael Moeller said this month the
door should be opened to the option of bailouts, though “the
state shouldn’t give a guarantee, binding for all future,
completely independent of the situation.”  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  Chief Financial OfficerHenrik Ramlau-Hansensaid May 2 Denmark should follow neighboring  Sweden ,
where the four largest banks are guaranteed state support in
exchange for some of  Europe ’s toughest capital requirements.  Same Rules  Moody’s Investors Service said last month Denmark’s Sifi
proposals won’t provide bondholders more safety and said the
framework was unlikely to trigger ratings upgrades. Banks in
Sweden enjoy three points on Moody’s government support scale,
compared with only one in Denmark.  The rating company ranks Danske Baa1, four grades below the
Aa3 rating it gives  Nordea Bank AB (NDA)  of Sweden. Danske says the
lower credit grade adds to funding costs at a time when they’re
being asked to raise additional capital.  Danske, Denmark’s biggest bank, estimates it will need to
hold 17.6 percent of risk-weighted assets in capital by 2022 to
meet the Sifi requirements, according to its first-quarter
presentation. The bank’s regulatory capital was 21.6 percent as
of March 31, including 3 percent state hybrid debt.  Investors pay about 43 basis points more to insure against
a default on senior unsecured debt sold by Danske Bank versus
similar contracts on Nordea, according to five-year credit-default swap data compiled by Bloomberg.  Senior Creditors  Danish banks have struggled to persuade investors they’re
as safe as their Swedish rivals after Denmark became the first
European Union country to force losses on senior bank creditors
within a resolution framework. The 2011 failure of Amagerbanken
A/S left most banks in Denmark locked out of funding markets as
creditors shunned the nation’s bail-in legislation.  Benny Engelbrecht, who sits on Denmark’s parliamentary
committee on bank laws for the ruling  Social Democrats , said
he’s unlikely to back proposals that move away from Denmark’s
practice of bailing in unsecured bank creditors. That stance
also applies to systemically important banks, he said.  “We won’t back giving Danish Sifis explicit government
support,” he said in an interview earlier this month. Denmark’s
financial industry assets are almost four times the size of the
$300 billion economy.  Per Callesen, deputy governor of Denmark’s central bank,
said in an interview last week financial industry demands they
be exempt from bail-in laws are out of step with reality.  “A wish for more explicit government guarantees would be
rather uniquely Danish,” Callesen said May 24. “I haven’t
heard indications from elsewhere that this would be the
preferred route to go down.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  