-- Top Watchdogs Absent at Agencies Representing 58% of U.S. Budget
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   I v o r y
-- 2013-05-28T04:01:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/top-watchdogs-absent-at-agencies-representing-58-of-u-s-budget.html
The U.S. State Department’s top
watchdog, Howard “Cookie” Krongard, quit in January 2008,
accused of impeding a federal probe of corruption and waste in
 Iraq .  More than five years later, the job is still vacant.  The State Department is among five agencies in President
 Barack Obama ’s Cabinet without an inspector general. Those
departments account for more than half the nation’s $1.29
trillion discretionary budget. The empty posts have left a wide
gap in oversight of spending on weapons, embassy security and
technology, according to academics and watchdog organizations.  “When you look at the magnitude of the budgets that these
inspectors general should be keeping an eye on, not having
independent, aggressive audits of those agencies is very
troubling,” said Joe Newman, a spokesman for the Project on
Government Oversight, a Washington-based nonprofit organization.  The longtime vacancies may have resulted from the Obama
administration’s over-vetting of candidates in anticipation of
“ugly” Senate confirmation processes, said Charles Tiefer, a
law professor at the University of Baltimore.  “It’s not in the White House’s imagination that there’s an
obstacle course on the Hill,” Tiefer, a former member of the
U.S. Commission on Wartime Contracting, said in an interview.  Senate Barrier  Obama’s attempt to appoint an inspector general for the
Homeland Security Department hit such a barrier in 2011. Richard
Skinner had retired in February 2011, and Roslyn Mazer, then-inspector general of the Office of the Director for National
Intelligence, was nominated to replace him.  Her confirmation vote was delayed after Senator Susan Collins, a Maine Republican, said she would oppose Mazer in part
because employees had raised concerns about her management
style. The White House withdrew the nomination in June 2012, and
the position remains unfilled.  The vetting and confirmation process may be contributing to
delays in filling senior-level posts across the government.  Before he was confirmed as Treasury Secretary, Jack Lew
answered 444 written questions, more than double the amount of
questions asked of his predecessor, Timothy Geithner. Gina McCarthy, Obama’s nominee to head the Environmental Protection
Agency, submitted answers to 1,000 questions from Republicans.  Tea Party  The watchdog vacancies returned to the spotlight this month
after the Treasury Department’s inspector general exposed the
Internal Revenue Service’s scrutiny of the tax-exempt status of
small-government advocacy groups. The IRS disclosed that it had
singled out groups for extra examination based on whether their
names included words such as “tea party” and “patriot.”  Lois Lerner, a mid-level agency official who oversees tax-exempt groups, acknowledged the practice and apologized. Lerner
is being replaced on an acting basis, the IRS said last week.
Steven Miller, the acting Internal Revenue Service commissioner,
was forced to resign.  The five Cabinet agencies with inspector general vacancies
include the departments of Defense, State, Labor, Interior and
Homeland Security. They represented 58 percent of the
government’s discretionary spending in the fiscal year ended
Sept. 30. The Pentagon alone accounts for half the total
outlays.  Each position requires a presidential appointment. Once
confirmed by the Senate, the inspectors general can be removed
only by the president and with notification to Congress.  No Nominations  With no pending nominations for inspectors general at the
departments, the White House says it’s working to fill the jobs.  “The Administration is firmly committed to strong
Inspectors General, and we are working diligently to identify
the best candidates to fill these unique posts,”  Eric Schultz ,
a White House spokesman, said in an e-mail. “The Administration
supports the efforts of all of the IG Offices, including those
currently being led by Acting IGs, as they work to ensure that
taxpayers get the good government they deserve.”  Acting or deputy inspectors general and career staff
perform audits during a vacancy. The Labor Department’s
inspector general office’s work resulted in $142 million in
monetary recoveries and fines from April 1 to Sept. 30, 2012.  The Pentagon’s inspector-general office recently reported
that the Army risks wasting as much as $1.8 billion developing a
replacement for the M4 carbine, produced by Colt Defense LLC.
The office is also reviewing  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ’s F-35 jet,
the military’s most expensive weapons program.  Holding Fort  Even so, those oversight offices just aren’t the same
without a permanent watchdog, said Matthew D. Harris, a
professor at the University of Maryland University College who
trains current and incoming inspectors general for the
Association of Inspectors General.  “Let’s say your boss is gone for a month and you’re going
to act in his position,” Harris said. “You are just going to
hold down the fort.”  Acting inspectors general “don’t feel they have the
protection to make a decision because they’re not appointed,”
he said. One way to prevent oversight is to not appoint anyone
to those top positions, Harris said.  The inspector general role at the State Department has been
empty for more than five years, the longest vacancy among the
top watchdog positions since Obama took office.  The position at the Labor Department has been vacant since
July 2009, when Gordon Heddell resigned and became the
Pentagon’s inspector general. Then he resigned from the Pentagon
post in December 2011, and the hole hasn’t been plugged.
Homeland Security has lacked a permanent inspector general since
February 2011, and Interior, since December 2011.  ‘Still Waiting’  Secretary of State John Kerry in an April 17 hearing before
the House Committee on Foreign Affairs partly blamed the delay
in nominating an inspector general on the vetting process.  “I’ve got some folks that I selected way back in February
when I first came in and, we’re now April and I’m still waiting
for the vetting to move,” Kerry said. “I’ve talked to the
White House, they’re totally on board. They’re trying to get it
moved.”  The State Department inspector general most recently
confirmed by the Senate, Krongard, resigned after lawmakers in
2007 accused him of interfering with investigations of waste and
fraud, including a Justice Department probe of security
contractor Blackwater Worldwide.  He has denied any wrongdoing.  When asked to comment on the vacant seat, the State
Department’s inspector-general office pointed to statistics
showing increases in the number of the investigations. It also
called attention to congressional testimony by Harold Geisel,
now deputy inspector general.  The office had tripled the number of probes and had doubled
its number of investigators since 2008, Geisel told U.S.
lawmakers during an April 2011 House hearing.  Even so, he said he “would very, very, very much like to
see a permanent IG.”  “I don’t have control over the nomination of a permanent
IG,” Geisel said. “That has to come from the White House.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Ivory in Washington at 
 divory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  