-- Nokia, Actavis, TopShop, Microsoft: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-05-28T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/topshop-microsoft-new-york-university-intellectual-property.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  sued rival mobile-phone
maker HTC Corp. for selling products in the U.S., including the
HTC One handset, that allegedly infringe three of its patents.  The patents pertain to “terminal, method and computer
program product for interacting with a signaling tag,”
according to the complaint Nokia filed May 23 in federal court
in San Diego. The Espoo, Finland-based company seeks a court
order halting the alleged infringement and unspecified damages.  Nokia, which lost its 14-year title as world’s biggest
seller of mobile phones to  Korea ’s Samsung Electronics Co. in
2011, is trying to expand revenue from its patent portfolio. The
company last year sued Taoyuan, Taiwan-based HTC in the U.S. and
in  Germany  over alleged patent infringement.  “Upon receiving the official document, HTC is to consider
all legal options to protect our rights,” the Taiwanese company
said in an e-mailed statement May 23.  In dispute are patents 7,775,432, 8,306,065, and 8,366,000.  The case is Nokia Oyj v.  HTC Corp. (2498) , 13-1231, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  California  (San Diego).  Actavis Sale of Generic Pulmicort Blocked by Appeals Court  Actavis Inc. (ACT) ’s sales of a generic form of  AstraZeneca PLC (AZN) ’s
Pulmicort pediatric asthma treatment were cut short after a May
24 order from a federal appeals court.  Sales were to have begun April 1, following a trial court
ruling that Parsippany, New Jersey-based Actavis didn’t infringe
AstraZeneca’s patent 7,524,834, and that a second patent at
issue -- 6,598,603 -- wasn’t valid.  The trial court issued a temporary ban on sale of the
generic version of the drug on April 2, to give AstraZeneca a
chance to go to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal
Circuit, a Washington-based court that hears appeals of patent
cases.  The appeals court issued its temporary order May 24, saying
that London-based AstraZeneca had established it was entitled to
that protection during the course of the appeal. AstraZeneca is
required to post a $72 million bond within 7 days of the ruling,
according to the order.  Additionally, the appeals court granted a request from
 Israel ’s Teva Pharmaceuticals Industries Ltd. to file a friend
of the court brief.  The case is AstraZeneca LP v. Breath Ltd., 2013-1312-1352,
U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. The lower court
case is AstraZeneca LP v. Breath Ltd., 1:08-cv-01512-RMB-AMD,
U.S. District Court, District of New Jersey (Camden).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Pop Singer Rihanna Goes After TopShop, Says T-Shirt Unauthorized  TopShop Ltd., the London-based clothing retailer, was sued
by pop singer Rihanna, who claims the chain sold T-shirts
without authorization that bear her image, the U.K.’s Telegraph
newspaper  reported .  She had been in negotiations with the chain for more than a
year over the shirts, according to the Telegraph.  The newspaper reported that Rihanna is seeking $5 million
in damages.  Although TopShop has some U.S. outlets, the allegedly
infringing product wasn’t sold there, according to the
Telegraph.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Microsoft Copyright Infringement Claim Rejected by Russian Court  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s copyright infringement complaint against
the joint German-Russian venture Autobahn was rejected by the
Moscow Region Commercial Court, the Russian Legal Information
Agency reported.  Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft, the world’s largest
software company, claimed unauthorized copies of its software
were found on Autobahn computers during an inspection by Russian
law enforcement officials, according to RAPSI.  The court found fault with the protocol under which the
inspection was conducted and said that Microsoft didn’t provide
adequate evidence to defeat Autobahn’s claims that the
inspection didn’t take place at the address specified in court
documents, RAPSI reported.  Autobahn, founded in 1995, is a joint venture between a
group of Russian road construction companies and Windhagen,
Germany’s Wirtgen GmbH, according to the news agency.  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Chinese Researches at NYU Arrested, Charged in Espionage Case  Three Chinese researchers at New York University were
charged with falsification of records and commercial bribery in
an industrial espionage case.  The scientists are accused of providing information to a
Chinese medical-imaging company that flows from their research
at the university funded by grants from the National Institutes
of Health, according to the complaint filed May 19 in federal
court in  Manhattan .  The government alleged in court papers that Yudong Zhu, an
associate professor in radiology at NYU, provided false
statements regarding his affiliation with a Chinese government-sponsored research institution, a Chinese medical-imaging
company, and about his application for and ownership of a patent
related to NIH-funded research.  Zhu’s patent 8,319,495 B1 was issued in November 2012, and,
according to the complaint, the university became aware of it
only in connection with its own investigation.  Additional allegations are related to photographs taken of
lab equipment, and e-mails to the Chinese company.  Zhu is represented by Robert M. Baum of Federal Defenders
of New York Inc., who didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed
request for comment.  The case is U.S. A v. ZHU, 11:13-mj-01309-UA, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  IP Moves  Sheppard Mullin Expands China IP Practice, Hires Scott J. Palmer  Sheppard Mullin Richter & Hampton LLP hired Scott J. Palmer
for its IP practice group, the Los Angeles-based firm said in a
 statement .  Palmer, who joins from Baker & McKenzie LLP, will be based
in Beijing. He does IP portfolio-management work as well as
trademark and copyright registration and enforcement, and has
handled anti-counterfeiting and anti-piracy efforts in  China  for
multinational clients.  Palmer has an undergraduate degree from Northern  Arizona 
University and a law degree from Indiana University.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California,
at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 