-- Orascom Telecom Jumps to 4-Year High on Buyout Flop: Cairo Mover
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2013-05-28T13:13:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/orascom-telecom-set-for-4-year-high-as-buyout-fails-cairo-mover.html
Orascom Telecom Holding SAE (OTLD)  rose to
the highest level in more than four years after a buyout offer,
which the Egyptian mobile phone company said undervalued the
shares, failed.  The company that merged with  VimpelCom Ltd. (VIP)  in 2011 rose
5.7 percent to 4.83 Egyptian pounds ($0.69) the highest close in
Cairo since September 2008. Altimo Holdings & Investments Ltd.,
VimpelCom’s biggest shareholder, had offered 70 cents a share to
buy the 48 percent of Orascom not already owned by the
Amsterdam-based phone company. Orascom was the biggest gainer on
the benchmark EGX 30 Index, which advanced 1.7 percent.  Russian billionaire  Mikhail Fridman ’s attempt to take
control of Orascom ended yesterday after only 16 percent Orascom
holders accepted the buyout offer, falling short of the 26
percent minimum Altimo set as a requirement. Orascom’s board
told stockholders this month they should reject the buyout
because it undervalued the company by as much as 36 percent,
according to its adviser, HC Securities & Investments.  “Altimo’s offer price now serves as a floor for the stock
to catch up to,” Wafik Dawood, director of institutional sales
at Cairo-based Mega Investments Securities, said by phone.  Altimo said today it will seek the approval of  Egypt ’s
regulator to proceed with the $585 million purchase of Orascom
shares whose holders accepted the offer.  “Investors run the risk of owning an illiquid stock if
Altimo is able to go ahead with the purchase and take a third of
Orascom’s free-float off the market,” Dawood said.  About 1.8 million Orascom shares were traded in Cairo, or
45 percent of the three-month daily average. The  global
depositary receipts  climbed 8.2 percent to $3.375 at 1:53 p.m.
in  London , set for the biggest increase in 11 months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  