-- Emerging-Market Stocks Advance a Third Day as Oil Shares Rally
-- B y   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n   a n d   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 2013-05-28T21:55:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/most-emerging-stocks-rise-as-health-care-stocks-gain-kia-drops.html
Emerging-market stocks gained for a
third day as higher  oil prices  boosted energy producers and
reports in the U.S. spurred confidence in the global recovery.
South Africa’s rand dropped to a four-year low versus the dollar
after the economy slowed more than forecast.  OAO Gazprom, Russia’s biggest natural-gas producer, and
Petroleo Brasileiro SA, Brazil’s state-run oil company, gained
more than 0.7 percent. OTP Bank Nyrt.,  Hungary ’s largest lender,
climbed to the highest  in almost two years after the central
bank cut  interest rates  for a 10th month. OAO Magnit, Russia’s
biggest food retailer, jumped to a record after MSCI Inc.
increased its weighting in a benchmark gauge. The Colombian peso
slid beyond 1,900 for the first time in 16 months  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index climbed 0.2 percent to
1,030.82. The gauge is down 0.8 percent this month following
last week’s 1.8 percent slide. U.S. home prices rose in March by
the most in seven years and confidence among American consumers
climbed in May to the highest level in more than five years,
data showed today.  “Markets are recovering from weakness last week,”
Maarten-Jan Bakkum, an emerging-market strategist at ING
Investment Management in The Hague, said by e-mail. “Positive
drivers remain,” including expectations for monetary easing in
emerging markets and a recovery in the global economy, he said.  The main indexes in Russia, Hungary, China, Mexico,
 Indonesia  and  Thailand  rose more than 1 percent and  Brazil ’s
Ibovespa lost 0.6 percent. Gauges of energy and health care
companies in MSCI’s developing-nation index rose at least 0.6
percent, the most among 10 industry groups, while technology
shares lost 0.6 percent, the biggest decline.  Emerging ETF  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund rallied 0.6 percent to $42.50. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
slumped 6.1 percent to 20.16.  Gazprom advanced 1.3 percent and Petrobras added 0.7
percent.  Polskie Gornictwo Naftowe i Gazownictwo SA , Poland’s
biggest gas distributor, rose 0.8 percent. Oil climbed 0.9
percent, rising for the first time in five days.  The Ibovespa dropped as Brookfield Incorporacoes SA slumped
5.3 percent, leading homebuilders’ losses on concern higher
borrowing costs in Brazil will curb the economic recovery. Oil
company OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA declined 5.1
percent, the most on the emerging markets gauge.  The Colombian peso fell to as low as 1,902.97, the weakest
since Jan. 4, 2012. Colombia needs to do more to weaken peso to
its “equilibrium rate” of about 1,950 and should continue its
dollar purchases, Finance Minister  Mauricio Cardenas  said in a
May 23 interview.  OTP added 3 percent. Hungary’s central bank cut the main
interest rate to a record after the inflation rate plunged and
as policy makers seek to boost lending and growth. The forint
strengthened 0.7 percent against the euro.  The rand declined against all 31 major emerging and
developed-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg, losing 1.8
percent to 9.7847 versus the dollar, the biggest slump since
April 15 and the weakest level since March 2009 on a closing
basis. Economic growth in Africa’s biggest economy slowed in the
first quarter to an annualized 0.9 percent, less than the 1.6
percent median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg survey.  Fund Inflows  Magnit jumped 5.1 percent in Moscow and its global
depositary receipts rallied 3.7 percent. The increased weighting
may boost inflows into the GDRs from funds that track the MSCI
gauge by $331 million, VTB Capital wrote in a report today.  The emerging-markets index has dropped 2.3 percent this
year, compared with a 12 percent gain in the MSCI World Index.
The developing-nation index  trades  at 10.9 times projected 12-month earnings, compared with the MSCI World’s 14.6 times, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of mainland companies
listed in  Hong Kong  jumped 1.6 percent, the most in a month. The
Jakarta Composite Index surged 1.8 percent, the biggest increase
since Sept. 14. Taiwan’s Taiex Index lost 0.2 percent.  Chinese Premier  Li Keqiang  said yesterday his country is
confronted by “huge challenges” as it opens up the economy and
reforms will be accompanied by tapered-off levels of growth.  China Gas  China Gas Holdings Ltd. (384)  jumped 6.1 percent after saying it
expects a “significant” increase in full-year net income,
citing better-than-expected operating performance.  China Taiping Insurance Holdings (966)  Co., the first overseas-listed Chinese insurer, jumped 15 percent in Hong Kong, the
biggest gain since October 2008, after saying it would buy 10.6
billion  yuan  ($1.7 billion) of assets from its parent.  PT Astra International (ASII) , Indonesia’s biggest automotive
retailer, rallied 6.4 percent in Jakarta, on speculation the
government will introduce measures to encourage purchases of
alternative-energy vehicles.  SapuraKencana Petroleum Bhd. (SAKP) , Malaysia’s biggest oil and
gas services company, jumped 5.1 percent to a record in  Kuala
Lumpur  after saying its unit won a contract.  Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. (2330)  declined 2.2
percent, leading exporters lower as the yen weakened, hurting
their competitiveness against Japanese rivals.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries rose five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 287 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net ;
Lyubov Pronina in London at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  