-- OZ Minerals Delays Carrapateena Exploration to Seek Lower Costs
-- B y   D a v i d   S t r i n g e r
-- 2013-05-28T08:51:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/oz-minerals-delays-carrapateena-exploration-to-seek-lower-costs.html
OZ Minerals Ltd. (OZL) , Australia’s third-biggest copper producer, has delayed exploration plans at the
Carrapateena project it acquired in 2011 for $250 million amid
rising costs.  Plans to use a boring machine to excavate an exploratory
tunnel and carry out a pre-feasability study at the South
Australia site are now too expensive, after tenders from
potential contractors were higher than forecast, the Melbourne-based company’s Chairman Neil Hamilton told its annual general
meeting today. OZ Minerals earlier this month raised its
estimate for pre-production capital expenditure to A$3 billion
(US$2.9 billion) from A$2 billion.  “One of the things we have been trying to do with this
project is to accelerate it to get to a decision, to get more
information,” Chief Executive Officer Terry Burgess said in an
interview following the meeting. “I think we are realizing that
this was costing us extra money, by asking the contractors to do
things more quickly.”  The company will focus on lowering its production costs and
the costs of contracts with suppliers last agreed at the height
of  Australia ’s mining investment boom, Burgess said. The company
said today it had revised its cost forecast to as much as $1.80
per pound of copper for 2013 from $1.20 in 2012.  The shares fell 3.5 percent to A$3.86 in Sydney trading and
have lost 42 percent of their value this year. Australia’s
benchmark S&P/ASX 200 index rose 0.2 percent.  Viability Decision  A decision will be made on the viability of the
Carrapateena mine in 2015, when hiring mining services
contractors may be cheaper as the number of resources projects
falls, Burgess said.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s largest
mining company, is targeting an 18 percent cut in capital
spending in fiscal 2014, while Rio Tinto Group is seeking to cut
$2 billion in costs this year across its mining and corporate
offices.  “If the market continues to slow down with regards to
mining services, we might see lower costs,” Burgess said in the
interview. “That’s where we are really aiming, it’s a message
we are giving to all our goods and service providers.”  Burgess said pressure on copper supply caused by the tunnel
collapse at  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX) ’s Grasberg mine
in  Indonesia , and the suspension of mining at Rio Tinto’s
Bingham Canyon in  Utah , is likely to bolster prices. He said the
incidents would probably help keep the price at $3.30 to $3.50 a
pound. Copper for July delivery traded today on New York’s Comex
at $3.3005 a pound.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Stringer in Melbourne at 
 dstringer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  