-- Global Tablet Shipments to Overtake PCs by 2015, IDC Says
-- B y   L i s a   R a p a p o r t   a n d   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2013-05-28T18:24:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/pc-market-to-decline-7-8-in-2013-as-mobile-devices-gain.html
Global shipments of tablets will
eclipse personal computers in 2015, as consumers flock to lower-priced and smaller alternatives to  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad, market
researcher IDC said.  Tablet  shipments  are projected to grow 45 percent from this
year to reach 332.4 million in 2015, compared with an estimated
322.7 million for PCs, according to Framingham, Massachusetts-based IDC. PC shipments may decline 7.8 percent this year, the
worst annual drop on record, the researcher said, a revision
from its prior projection for a 1.3 percent decrease.  More portable, affordable and backed by hundreds of
thousands of applications, tablets are replacing PCs as
consumers’ main tool for checking e-mail, browsing websites and
accessing music and movies. In the three years since Apple
introduced the iPad, cheaper tablets running  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s
Android software have emerged to fuel faster growth.  “For many consumers, a tablet is a simple and elegant
solution for core use cases that were previously addressed by
the PC,” said  Ryan Reith , an analyst at IDC.  IDC said the worldwide average selling price for tablets is
seen falling 11 percent to $381 this year, and keep declining as
more consumers choose smaller machines such as Apple’s iPad mini
and competing devices made by companies including  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930)  and  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)   ‘Everyday Computing’  In 2017, 333 million PCs will be sold worldwide, while
tablet shipments will reach 410 million, IDC said. IDC, which
had previously forecast a “gradual increase in volume” for PCs
next year, now projects that the market will contract 1.2
percent in 2014.  Consumers are pushing back upgrades to their PCs and
companies are also holding off on spending on replacements for
employees’ machines, IDC said. Tablet shipments will overtake
laptops this year, the researcher said.  IDC said the forecasts include the impact of Windows 8,
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s newest operating system, which was introduced
in October. The software was designed to be used on touch-screen
devices and tablets, aiming to help PC makers compete with
mobile devices increasingly capable of performing tasks once
confined to PCs.  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  and  Dell Inc. (DELL)  are trying to expand
their presence in the tablet market to counter slumping demand
for traditional desktop and notebook PCs.  “Many users are realizing that everyday computing, such as
accessing the Web, connecting to social media, sending e-mails,
as well as using a variety of apps, doesn’t require a lot of
computing power or local storage,” Loren Loverde, an analyst at
IDC, said in the statement. “Instead, they are putting a
premium on access from a variety of smaller devices with longer
battery life, an instant-on function, and intuitive touch-centric interfaces.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Rapaport in  New York  at 
 lrapaport1@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  