-- Pentagon Defends Weapons After Report of Hacker Attacks
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o   a n d   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2013-05-29T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/pentagon-to-act-promptly-on-weapons-system-hacker-attacks.html
The Pentagon vouched for the
capabilities of U.S. weaponry, responding to a report that
Chinese hackers had gained access to sensitive information about
major American weapons systems.  “We maintain full confidence in our weapons platforms,”
Pentagon spokesman  George Little  said yesterday in a statement.
“Suggestions that cyber intrusions have somehow led to the
erosion of our capabilities or technological edge are
incorrect.”  Little issued the statement after the Washington Post,
citing a classified section of a report by the independent
Defense Science Board, reported that hackers had gained access
to computer information about more than two dozen major U.S.
weapons systems, including missile defenses, aircraft and ships.  While the science board report didn’t accuse China in the
incidents, there have been numerous reports for several years of
a sustained Chinese espionage campaign against U.S. defense
contractors and government agencies.  The science board report “outlines several areas of
concern that we will address promptly to ensure the viability of
our cyber capabilities and defenses,” Air Force Lieutenant
Colonel Damien Pickart, another Pentagon spokesman, said in an
e-mailed statement.  Chinese attempts to obtain sensitive U.S. military data as
well as commercial intellectual property through electronic
espionage have been highlighted repeatedly by Defense Department
and White House officials. National Security Adviser Tom Donilon
said in March that China is waging a “large scale” computer
campaign to steal  trade secrets .  F-35 Jet  Weapons systems compromised by hackers included Air Force,
Army and Navy air-to-air and missile defense weapons, fighter
aircraft, including  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ’s F-35 jet, and the
Navy’s Littoral Combat Ship, the Post reported.  Pickart’s statement didn’t confirm any specific information
about Chinese hackers or intrusions aimed at weapons systems
information. In general, he said the science board’s findings
“make it clear that much work remains as we establish the right
balance of integrated cyber defenses, capabilities and forces.”  “Some of the information in the report is dated” because
the science board “completed much of its research two years
ago,” Pickart said. Since then, the military has made progress
addressing “some of the issues identified” and “is using the
report to focus additional efforts on those not already in
progress,” he said.  Increasing Attacks  Defense contractors said they’re seeing an increase in
attacks on their networks.  “The number of attempts to breach into our networks are
increasing at an alarming rate,”  Randy Belote , a spokesmen for
 Falls Church , Virginia-based  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC)  said in an
e-mail.  Raytheon Co. (RTN)  and the government agencies it supports
“continue to see an increase in advanced persistent threats,”
David Desilets, spokesman for the Waltham, Massachusetts-based
company said in an e-mail.  Lockheed, the world’s largest defense contractor, has
“made significant investments in countering cybersecurity
threats,” Jennifer Allen, a spokeswoman for the Bethesda,
Maryland-based company said in an e-mail. Lockheed remains
“confident in the integrity” of its security systems, she
said.  Electronic Reconnaissance  “There appears to be some news here, but the fact that
China has been engaged in massive electronic reconnaissance of
U.S economic and national security assets is not news,” said
Michael Wessel, a member of the congressionally mandated U.S.-
 China  Economic and Security Review Commission.  Wessel said he hasn’t read the classified Defense Science
Board document.  Still,  he said, “I take this as a real shot across the
bow in terms of the enormity of the problem the U.S. faces”
that signals “it now has to be dealt with.”  Reports have highlighted the risks of cyberattacks to U.S.
weapons systems.  The unclassified portion of the Science Board  report  said
in January that the success of Pentagon “red teams” trained to
test the vulnerabilities of U.S. weapons systems should “give
pause to DoD leadership.”  “During exercises and testing, DoD Red Teams, using only
small teams and a short amount of time, are able to
significantly disrupt” the ability of U.S. forces to carry out
military missions, it said.  The Littoral Combat Ship is vulnerable to hacking,
according to findings by Navy cybersecurity specialists,
 Bloomberg News  reported in April.  Hacking Vulnerability  A red team assigned to test weaknesses in computer systems
found major deficiencies last year in Lockheed’s USS Freedom,
the first of the new ships to be deployed, according to a
government official familiar with the findings who asked not to
be identified because the Navy report hasn’t been made public.  The Pentagon this month in its latest annual report on
China’s military capabilities said China’s military has targeted
U.S. government computers with intrusions that seek sensitive
data.  The incursions “appear to be attributable directly to the
Chinese government and military,” the Pentagon said. The
information targeted could be used to bolster China’s defense
and technology industries and to support military planning. It
didn’t say U.S. weapons programs have been compromised.  Misleading Information  In addition to pressing U.S. and foreign defense
contractors to beef up defenses along their entire supply chains
against computer espionage from China and other countries, U.S.
intelligence agencies occasionally have planted bits of
misleading or false information about weapons systems of
interest to rival nations, two U.S. officials have said.  When electronic intelligence specialists at the National
Security Agency detect an extensive effort to steal information
about a particular weapon, such as the F-35 stealth jet or U.S.
missile defenses, one possible response is to plant old or
partially faulty information in ways that leave it vulnerable to
hackers, the officials said.  Such tactics can be used to encourage the Chinese or others
to copy outdated or deficient designs, and they also undermine
rival nations’ confidence in the credibility of the information
they steal, the officials said, asking not to be identified
discussing classified matters.  Even if the bulk of the information that’s stolen is valid,
a few small omissions or changes can make the purloined data
worthless or prompt the thieves to waste time and money on
designs that won’t work or can easily be countered, they said.  The U.S. has used disinformation campaigns in the past to
successfully deceive adversaries, for example about where and
when allied forces would invade  France  during World War II, one
of the officials said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net ;
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  