-- Pernod Ricard Forecasts Slower China Growth on Weak Economy
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-05-28T11:44:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/pernod-ricard-forecasts-slower-china-growth-on-weaker-economy.html
Pernod Ricard SA, (RI)   France ’s biggest
distiller, forecast weaker growth in China as slower economic
growth weighs on demand and the government’s austerity campaign
affects spending on entertainment.  The maker of Martell Cognac and G.H. Mumm champagne expects
“high single-digit” growth in China in the financial year
ending next month, Pierre Coppere, head of Pernod’s Asian unit,
told investors in Beijing today, less than the prior year’s 24
percent gain. In the medium-term, the company forecasts a “high
single digit, low double-digit” increase, he said.  Distillers including Paris-based Pernod and  Remy Cointreau
SA (RCO)  are counting on  emerging markets  to drive sales as a credit
crisis crimps consumer spending in  Europe . Pernod posted third-quarter revenue that missed estimates on April 25 as consumers
in developing markets kept spending in check.  A tougher economic climate in  China  and President Xi Jinping’s crackdown on extravagant gift-giving and banquets by
government officials have weighed on sales in the nation, Gilles Bogaert, Pernod’s chief financial officer, told investors last
month. To rekindle growth in its second-largest market, the
company is targeting new consumers such as female drinkers and
trying to convert beer drinkers to its liquors.  “We can’t say we are immune to the fluctuation in the
economy for sure,” Chief Executive Officer Pierre Pringuet said
in an interview in Beijing today. “There is a slowdown in China
because there is a slowdown in most parts of the world,
particularly in Europe.”  ‘Soft Landing’  Pernod  shares  were little changed at 95.40 euros as of 1:15
p.m. in Paris trading, missing out on a broader market advance.  Growing domestic demand in China will limit the impact of a
slowing economy, Pringuet said today. The nation will likely
experience a “soft landing” and rebound quickly, he said.  The world’s second-largest economy grew 7.7 percent, more
slowly than expected, in the first quarter. Economists at Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. are
among those that have cut estimates for China since April 19.  Growth in the Asian cognac market has decelerated in 2013,
Philippe Guettat, head of the company’s Martell Mumm Perrier-Jouet business, said today. The market is likely to grow at a
low single-digit pace this year by volume, with the slowdown
being more evident in premium brands, Guettat predicted. In
China, where the brand is expanding its presence in northern and
western regions, net sales growth will be in the mid-teens, he
said.  Marketing Programs  Pernod is expanding its marketing programs in China to
target high net-worth individuals through invitation-only
lifestyle clubs and a VIP customer relationship team.  The distiller is also considering options such as a China-only spirit for the market in future, Thierry Billot, managing
director of its brands unit, said in an interview today.  “There seems to be some expectation for something else
other than baijiu for the young generation,” Billot said,
declining to provide more details. “Part of it could be fed by
international brands, and part of it could be fed by new Chinese
products.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  