-- LPG Tanker Rates Rising Near Record in U.S. Shale Surge: Freight
-- B y   I s a a c   A r n s d o r f
-- 2013-05-28T16:15:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/lpg-tanker-rates-rising-near-record-in-u-s-shale-surge-freight.html
Record global trade in liquefied
petroleum gas, a result of increasing U.S. energy independence,
is driving up rates for hauling the fuel on tankers at a time
when most commodity shipping is losing money.  Prices on the industry’s benchmark trade route rose 42
percent to $68.38 a metric ton this month, according to the
 Baltic Exchange  in London. Costs to haul the fuel will exceed
the record $81.64 set in 2008 by the end of the year, Miguel de Potter, chief financial officer of Exmar NV, the third-largest
publicly listed owner, said in an interview. Shares of the owner
of 26 LPG carriers will gain 11 percent in 12 months, according
to the average of five analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The U.S. is exporting a record amount of LPGs including
propane and butane as it taps new energy reserves found in
shale-rock formations. The surge in LPG shipping returns is
spurring billionaire investors  John Fredriksen  and  Wilbur Ross 
to build gas carriers. Rising rates contrast with losses for
most of the merchant fleet because of a glut of capacity that
Clarkson Plc, the biggest shipbroker, estimates is the worst in
about three decades.  “This is a new trade that’s evolved,” said Knut Stangebye
Olsen, an analyst at Lorentzen & Stemoco AS, an industry
consultant in Oslo. “There’s a lot of shale production in the
U.S., and they’re building pipelines, they’re building new
terminals, so there are a lot of volumes.”  Maritime Routes  The cost to transport a ton of LPG on a very large gas
carrier, or VLGC, jumped 72 percent since the start of January,
according to the Baltic Exchange, which publishes rates on more
than 50 maritime routes. Daily earnings for the vessels, which
haul 44,000 tons of cargo, will average $28,000 this year, 7.7
percent more than in 2012, estimates RS Platou Markets AS, an
Oslo-based shipbroker. The ships need about $24,000 to break
even, according to Platou.  Shares of Antwerp, Belgium-based  Exmar (EXM)  climbed 9.9 percent
to 8.45 euros in Brussels this year and will reach 9.40 euros in
12 months, the predictions show. The company will report net
income of $58.9 million for 2013, 8.4 percent more than last
year and following a $34 million loss in 2011, according to the
mean of five  analyst estimates . That contrasts with oil-tanker
owners who lost a combined $27 billion since 2009, according to
Intertanko, the industry’s biggest trade group.  Redeploying Vessels  Solvang ASA in Stavanger,  Norway , has 16 LPG tankers,
making it the biggest publicly traded LPG tanker operator by
capacity. Its stock fell 11 percent this year on average daily
trading volume of about 1,500 shares. Solvang is followed by
Tokyo-based  Nippon Yusen K.K. (9101) , whose shares rose 39 percent to
280 yen this year. StealthGas Inc., based in  Athens , has the
greatest number of carriers and the company said in March it was
deploying ships thousands of miles to the Americas to meet
rising demand.  About 60 percent of LPG comes from natural-gas extraction
and the rest from oil refining, according to the World LP Gas
Association in Paris. Trade in the fuel, used in everything from
cigarette lighters to plastics, will advance 6 percent to a
record 71 million tons this year, according to Joachim Greig &
Co., an Oslo-based shipbroker.  Propane costs $477 a ton in  Texas , compared with $793 in
 Japan  and $675 in northwest  Europe , according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The difference is spurring U.S. exports, which
have a disproportionate effect on shipping rates because of the
distances involved. A round trip to  Tokyo  from Houston can be as
long as 36,000 miles, compared with 15,000 miles from  Saudi
Arabia  to Japan and back, the industry’s benchmark route. That
ties up tankers for longer, effectively reducing the capacity of
the global fleet.  ‘Fundamental Change’  Further gains in U.S. LPG exports that rose 33 percent to a
record 71.9 million barrels last year may be hindered by delays
in building new terminals and congestion at existing sites. The
54-mile  Houston Ship Channel , the biggest waterway for U.S.
energy exports, already receives more foreign vessels than any
other U.S. port, according to the  Army Corps  of Engineers.  The gains in shipping rates also may be curbed by
accelerating fleet growth. Capacity will expand 5.6 percent this
year and 4.7 percent in 2014, compared with 1.7 percent in 2012,
according to London-based Clarkson.  New vessels will arrive as economists predict weakening
growth in the biggest consuming nations. Japan’s economy will
slow in 2013 and for at least the next two years, the average of
46 economist estimates compiled by Bloomberg shows. The 17-country euro region’s recession extended to a record sixth
quarter in the first three months of the year.  Product Tankers  The shale boom is also lifting demand for tankers hauling
refined oil products. The U.S. shipped a record 745,000 barrels
a day of gasoline and products such as naphtha and benzene that
are blended to make the auto fuel in December, according to
Energy Department data. Rates for medium-range product tankers
will average the highest since 2008 this year, d’Amico Shipping
International SpA, a Luxembourg-based owner, said this month.  Ross, the founder of WL Ross & Co., owns a majority stake
in Navigator Holdings Ltd., the largest operator of midsize LPG
vessels. Frontline 2012 Ltd., founded by Fredriksen, the world’s
richest ship owner, said in March it was ordering at least four
VLGCs.  Outstanding orders for new LPG tankers equal 16 percent of
existing capacity, from 10 percent a year ago, according to data
from IHS Fairplay, a Redhill, England-based research company.  “The order book remains pretty small and is unlikely to
absorb the demand-growth requirements that will be there,” said
Doug Mavrinac, an analyst at Jefferies LLC in Houston whose
recommendations on the shares of shipping companies returned 17
percent in the past six months. “Given that the U.S. now has an
increasing ability to ship out increasing production, you should
see further supplies hitting the market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isaac Arnsdorf in  London  at 
 iarnsdorf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  