-- Philippine Peso Falls to 8-Month Low as Stocks Extend Retreat
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2013-05-28T03:20:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/philippine-peso-falls-to-8-month-low-as-stocks-extend-retreat.html
The Philippine peso fell to an eight-month low as the benchmark equities index extended its retreat
from a record before official data this week that’s forecast to
show economic growth slowed.  The Philippine Stock Exchange  Composite Index (PCOMP)  dropped for a
fourth day and has lost 4.5 percent since reaching an all-time
high on May 15. The gauge climbed 22 percent this year, the
second-best performance by a primary index in Southeast Asia.
Gross domestic product probably increased 6 percent in the first
quarter, the least since the three months ended June, according
to the median  estimate  of economists in a Bloomberg News survey
before the government report on May 30.  “Since the  Philippines  has been outperforming since the
beginning of the year it seems to have been the preferred asset
to sell at this point,” said Emilio Neri, an economist at Bank
of the Philippine Islands in  Manila . “The key takeaway is that
we don’t perceive it as a reversal, we see it as a correction to
a still generally bullish trend.”  The peso weakened 0.6 percent to 41.865 per dollar as of
11:06 a.m. in Manila, the lowest level since Sept. 27, according
to prices from Tullett Prebon Plc. One-month implied volatility,
a measure of expected moves in the exchange rate used to price
options, rose 22 basis points, or 0.22 percentage point, to 6.12
percent.  The currency has lost 2.5 percent since the end of March
after gaining in each of the last five quarters. Overseas
investors  sold  $50 million more of the nation’s shares than they
bought in the last two days, exchange data show.  Government bonds were little changed, with the yield on the
8.125 percent notes due December 2035 at 4.245 percent,
according to prices from Tradition Financial Services.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  