-- Pictet to Lombard Odier Win Clients Amid Secrecy Crackdown
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 2013-05-29T18:28:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/pictet-to-lombard-odier-win-clients-amid-swiss-secrecy-crackdown.html
Pictet & Cie. and Lombard Odier &
Cie. are adding client assets faster than their biggest rivals
as Geneva’s largest closely held wealth managers adapt to the
demise of Swiss banking secrecy.  Assets under management at Pictet exceeded the 2007 pre-crisis peak last year and rose to a record 301 billion Swiss
francs ($311 billion) at the end of March, the firm said.
Lombard Odier said assets climbed 15 percent to 164 billion
francs in 2012 as Geneva’s oldest private bank met its target of
attracting 7 billion to 8 billion francs of net inflows.  Pictet and Lombard Odier, founded in the wake of the French
Revolution, are outpacing the average growth rate among the
world’s 20 biggest private banks, said Sebastian Dovey, head of
London-based research firm Scorpio Partnership. The Geneva firms
are vying with UBS AG and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  for emerging
market millionaires as a global crackdown on  tax evasion  forces
European and American clients to withdraw funds.  “Pictet and Lombard Odier are in a class of their own
among the Geneva private banks,” said Dovey. “They’re both
globally-recognized franchises with alluring international
brands.”  Pictet was 11th and Lombard Odier 20th in Scorpio’s wealth
manager ranking published last July. The list was headed by  Bank
of America Corp. (BAC)  and Zurich-based UBS, which both had assets in
excess of $1.5 trillion.  Growth Regions  The  Middle East  and  Latin America  remain growth regions for
cross-border centers such as Geneva, said Bernard Droux, a
managing partner at Lombard Odier and president of the Geneva
Financial Center, a lobby group.  “We are seeing net new money coming into most major Swiss
private banks,” said Droux. “The bankers’ expertise,
 Switzerland ’s political stability, the strength of the Swiss
franc and quality of life all make Geneva attractive.”  Fitch Ratings Ltd. rates both Geneva firms AA- based on
their low balance-sheet and credit-default risk and diverse
sources of revenue.  UBS (UBSN)  and Credit Suisse have ratings two steps
lower, which reflects the risk profiles of their investment
banks.  “Pictet and Lombard Odier are better placed than smaller
competitors to mitigate the challenges,” said Christian Kuendig, a financial services analyst at Fitch in  London , who
points to their ability to open branches outside Switzerland and
attract pension funds and other institutional clients.  Institutional Business  Pictet, which was involved in financing the Ohio-Mississippi railway in the mid-19th century, reported 13 billion
francs of net inflows last year. The bank also employs 662
people to help manage 115 billion euros ($151 billion) for
institutions.  Lombard Odier, which helped finance shipping lines and
railways at the beginning of the 19th century after its
foundation in 1796, has increased its asset-management business
by more than 40 percent to 38 billion francs since 2008. The
bank hired Carolina Minio-Paluello as deputy chief investment
officer from Citigroup Inc. earlier this month. She will report
to CIO Jan Straatman, who joined from ING Groep NV in December
2011.  Geneva wealth managers with less than 10 billion francs of
client assets should consider cutting fees and offering new
services such as corporate advisory or private equity, according
to Martin Schilling of PricewaterhouseCoopers AG in Zurich.  “I would be really surprised if they could survive without
adapting their business models,” Schilling said. “Clients are
more demanding and margins will be lower and if you want to be
successful you have to offer a niche, something special.”  Critical Situation  A quarter of Swiss private banks are no longer operating
profitably, with smaller wealth managers facing a “critical”
situation as fees drop and compliance costs increase, KPMG said
in December. The number of banks in Switzerland dropped to 312
in 2011 from 330 in 2007, according to the  Swiss National Bank ,
which publishes figures for 2012 next month.  Pictet and Lombard Odier are attracting new clients as
Switzerland tries to shed its image as a tax haven amid a U.S.
probe of whether the country’s biggest banks, including Credit
Suisse and  Julius Baer Group Ltd. (BAER) , helped Americans evade taxes.  Pictet is cooperating with a “general inquiry” from the
 Justice Department , the bank said in November, adding that it’s
making it a priority to ensure that business with U.S. clients
complies with laws and regulations. As many as 30 percent of
Geneva’s banking jobs may be eliminated amid an “avalanche” of
new laws and regulations, bank managing partner Nicolas Pictet
said last June.  Tax Advantages  Switzerland proposed a bill today that it says paves the
way for the country’s  banks  to resolve a tax-evasion dispute
with the U.S. The bill authorizes Swiss banks to cooperate with
U.S. authorities and transfer information while safeguarding
their interests, the government said in a statement.  The Swiss government has been in talks with the U.S. for
more than two years to end a DOJ investigation of at least 14
financial firms. That will force wealth managers in Geneva and
Zurich to raise their game, said  Martin Brown , a professor of
banking and finance at St. Gallen University in Switzerland.  “I don’t think it’s sufficient to have good dining manners
and be good at golf,” he said. “Good bankers are going to
distinguish themselves by providing sound and independent
advice, now that the tax advantages won’t matter anymore.”  Losing Magic  Net inflows at Pictet and Lombard Odier may slow in the
coming quarters after the banks decided in February to end the
unlimited personal liability of their managing partners, said
Dovey. The existing structure, where eight managing partners
share the profits but assume personal liability for losses, was
a “selection edge” for many clients and enabled the two banks
to charge higher-than-average fees, he said.  From Jan. 1, the two banks will establish corporate
partnerships overseeing limited liability companies, a structure
that is simpler for international regulators to understand and
that will make it easier for the bank to grow overseas,
according to Pictet Senior Managing Partner Jacques de Saussure.  “Clients choose us less for our legal structure than for
our management skills, our performance and our financial
solidity,” Pictet said in an e-mailed response to questions.  Hans Geiger, a retired Swiss banker and professor of
banking at the University of Zurich, isn’t so sure.  “They’ll lose their key distinction. They’ll lose their
 magic ,” said Geiger. “Geneva will still be a private banking
center in 20 to 30 years, but the question is whether it will be
strong, profitable and growing?” 