-- Pimco Says Zombie Europe Like Japan Risks Lost Decade
-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2013-05-28T09:27:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/pimco-says-zombie-europe-like-japan-risks-lost-decade.html
Europe finds itself in a similar
position to Japan as the continent faces a “lost decade,” said
Pacific Investment Management Co., which manages the world’s
biggest fixed-income fund.  The muddling through by European policy makers will have to
end as low economic growth and weak demand are jeopardizing
stability,  Andrew Bosomworth , managing director at Pimco, told
reporters in Germany’s financial capital of Frankfurt today.  “Zombification” can’t continue in Europe, Bosomworth
said. “Europe risks losing competitiveness, while further debt
restructuring is highly likely. Downside risks dominate.”  The  European Central Bank  cut its key interest rate to a
record low of 0.5 percent this month as the 17-nation euro
region struggled to emerge from recession. Economic confidence
dropped more than economists forecast in April and inflation of
1.2 percent is the slowest in more than three years.  Pimco, a unit of Europe’s biggest insurer  Allianz SE (ALV) ,
managed $2.04 trillion of  assets  as of March 31. Pimco is run by
Mohammed El-Erian and  Bill Gross , who earned the nickname the
“Bond King” in media outlets and was named fixed-income
manager of the decade by  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  in January 2010.  Bubbles Emerging  Aggressive monetary policy has inflated asset prices to the
degree that some sectors are increasingly looking like bubbles,
Bosomworth said. That situation makes it harder to find assets
still tied to fundamentals, he said.  “Hyperactive monetary policy has caused prices of stock
and bonds to rise about 8 percent per year since 2008, twice the
rate of the global gross domestic product,” Bosomworth said.
“That can’t continue.”  Europe’s growth outlook means Pimco is shunning long-dated
government securities and prefers to invest outside the euro
area,  Andrew Balls , head of European  portfolio management  at the
firm, said on May 15.  Pimco increasingly sees indications of speculation in
Europe in collateralized loan obligations and continuing
dilution of clauses to protect investor rights, Bosomworth said.  The continent faces economic contraction of as much as 1
percent a year for the next three to five years, while the U.S.
will grow at about 2 percent annually in the medium term,
Bosomworth said. Individual areas like the housing market will
be of considerable importance for growth, he said.  While China will grow as much as 7.5 percent per year and
turn into a consumer economy, Brazil, India and Russia face
serious headwinds in the long run, Bosomworth said. Industrial
nations devaluing their currencies for competitive reasons may
further curb the potential of these countries, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Richard Weiss  in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  