-- Planned Parenthood Funding Cutoff Bid Rejected by Court
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2013-05-28T13:35:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/planned-parenthood-funding-cutoff-bid-rejected-by-court.html
The U.S. Supreme Court refused to
revive an  Indiana  law that would have blocked Planned Parenthood
from receiving Medicaid dollars because the organization
provides abortion services.  The justices today left intact a lower court ruling that
said the Indiana law violated Medicaid beneficiaries’ right to
freely choose their medical provider.  Indiana is one of several states targeting Planned
Parenthood in an effort to prevent even indirect subsidies of
abortion. Texas, Arizona,  Missouri , Florida, New Jersey,
Wisconsin, Oklahoma, Tennessee, New Hampshire,  Kansas  and  North
Carolina  have taken steps to limit public funding to health
centers that provide abortion services.  Medicaid is the joint federal-state health care program for
the poor. While federal law bars use of Medicaid funds for
abortions, providers that perform abortions can receive payment
from Medicaid for other types of services.  Under the federal law that governs the program, state
Medicaid plans must reimburse any provider “qualified to
perform the service or services required.”  Indiana contended that provision isn’t absolute, leaving
states room to determine what it means to be “qualified.”
Indiana’s 2011 law says state agencies can’t provide public
funds to any entity that performs abortions or operates a
facility where abortions take place.  Private Funds  Planned Parenthood  of Indiana sued to challenge the
measure. The organization’s 28 health centers in the state
provide cancer screening, testing for sexually transmitted
diseases and a variety of birth-control options. Planned
Parenthood says it uses private funds for its abortion services.  A federal trial judge blocked the law, and a Chicago-based
federal appeals court upheld that ruling. The Obama
administration backed Planned Parenthood in the dispute.  The case is Secretary of the Indiana Family and Social
Services Administration v. Planned Parenthood of Indiana,
12-1039.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  