-- Precious Metals Using ETPs Seen by JPMorgan Returning 30%
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 2013-05-28T12:27:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/precious-metals-using-etps-seen-by-jpmorgan-returning-30-1-.html
Trading precious metals against each
other based on purchases and sales through exchange-traded
products would have returned an annual profit of about 30
percent since 2007, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The bank rates investment in the products on a weekly
basis, buying the metal with the highest current holding
relative to the past six months and selling the one with the
lowest relative holding. The strategy, which was first
calculated this month, would have been successful about 56
percent of the time since 2007, according to JPMorgan.  Gold entered a  bear market  in April and sales from ETPs
since the start of January surpassed what was amassed in the
combined previous two years as some investors lost faith in a
store of value amid an improving U.S. economy and rally in
equities. While the four precious metals would have on average
been bought and sold equally as much each other since 2007,
JPMorgan’s strategy suggested selling gold since January and
buying platinum since the end of March.  “It’s a decent success rate,” Matthew Lehmann, a global
strategist at JPMorgan’s asset allocation team in London, said
in a phone interview last week. “Even that tiny margin over
time gives you a huge advantage cumulatively against the market.
What makes this strategy interesting is that the flows appear to
work better on a relative basis. Having four metals so that
you’re not always exposed to one helps as well.”  Gold Price  Investors are now selling gold after holdings rose every
year since the first product was listed in 2003, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. Bullion for immediate delivery slipped 18
percent this year to $1,378.75 an ounce in  London , valuing the
amount held through the products at $95.7 billion. About 50
percent of metal in the SPDR Gold Trust, the biggest gold ETP,
is owned by institutional investors, with the rest held by
retail investors, Deutsche Bank AG said in a May 14 report.  Gold ETP  holdings  slipped 473.5 metric tons this year,
equal to about two months of mine production. At least another
435 tons may be sold if the Federal Reserve curbs stimulus
before the end of the year, Credit Suisse Group AG said in a May
22 report.  The 18 percent drop in gold  holdings  this year compares
with gains of 0.2 percent for silver, 16 percent for palladium
and 34 percent for platinum. Silver prices plunged 27 percent to
$22.2571 an ounce this year, the worst performance in the
Standard & Poor’s GSCI gauge of 24 commodities. Platinum is down
5.9 percent at $1,448.48 an ounce and palladium rose 3.9 percent
to $731.43 an ounce. Platinum and palladium are mostly used in
car autocatalysts.  ETP Flows  “We’ve looked at ETP flows and what’s happening in gold
and found that they’re not always that correlated,” Lehmann
said. “That’s most noticeably been the case over the last two
or three years, where there’s been periods where gold sold off
but the ETP holdings kept rising.”  While the  International Monetary Fund  lowered its 2013
global growth outlook four times since July, it expects
expansion to accelerate to 4 percent in 2014 from 3.3 percent
this year. Industrial applications account for about 10 percent
of gold consumption, compared with 60 percent for platinum and
91 percent for palladium, data from the World Gold Council and
Johnson Matthey Plc, both based in London, show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  