-- Raiffeisen Beats Estimates as CEO Uncertainty Persists
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2013-05-28T10:27:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/raiffeisen-beats-estimates-as-ceo-uncertainty-persists.html
Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI) 
posted first-quarter profit that beat analysts’ estimates as
concern mounts over who will be the new head of eastern  Europe ’s
second-biggest lender.  Net income fell to 157 million euros ($203 million) from
541 million euros a year earlier, when earnings were boosted by
one-time gains from hybrid bond buybacks, the Vienna-based bank
said in a statement today. That beat the 146 million-euro
estimate of  four analysts  surveyed by Bloomberg.  The bank, whose Chief Executive Officer Herbert Stepic
offered to resign last week over a probe into offshore accounts,
put off a decision about who will take over the post until June
7, disappointing investors who expected a decision today.  “I don’t think these results are anything to get excited
about -- I was hoping to get an update on the CEO succession,”
Eleni Papoula, an analyst at Berenberg Bank who has a sell
rating on Raiffeisen, said by telephone. “These results should
have been about the announcement of a credible  succession plan .
I’m not seeing that.”  The leadership uncertainty at Raiffeisen, the Austrian
lender trailing only  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  in eastern Europe, is
aggravated by strategic decisions management has to face. That
includes addressing the bank’s capital base amid strains at its
main shareholders, a group of cooperative banks which own 79
percent via Raiffeisen Zentralbank Oesterreich AG.  Raiffeisen shares rose 1.5 percent to 26.93 euros by 12:24
p.m. in Vienna, underperforming the 40-company Bloomberg Europe
Banks and Financial Services Index, which advanced 2.2 percent.
It’s the index’s third-worst performer this year.  Capital Weakness  Raiffeisen’s  core Tier 1 ratio , a measure of a bank’s
ability to absorb losses, declined to 10.6 percent of risk-weighted assets in the first quarter from 10.7 percent at the
end of last year, it said.  That includes 1.75 billion euros of state aid as well as
750 million euros of non-voting capital being phased out by
regulators. Without this capital, the ratio may be only 6.8
percent, Bank of America Corp. analyst Johan Ekblom wrote in a
note to clients today. Raiffeisen doesn’t report a ratio
stripping out the state aid.  “Our negative call on Raiffeisen has been based on its
weak capital position and expectations of consensus
downgrades,” Ekblom said. “We still think Raiffeisen has a 1.5
billion-euro deficit.”  External Candidate  RZB, which itself is ultimately owned by  494 local
cooperatives  via eight regional banks, opposed a sale of new
shares last year because it deemed Raiffeisen’s share price as
too low. Stepic has told investors he’s “relaxed” about his
capital levels. He also increased the firm’s dividend payout for
the last year even as profit declined by 25 percent, defying
regulatory calls to retain more earnings.  A Stepic successor from the outside may be more focused on
boosting capital and reducing risks, Berenberg’s Papoula said.
Stepic has worked at Raiffeisen for four decades and led the
eastern European expansion of the lender, whose roots go back to
19th-century farmers’ cooperatives.  “If Raiffeisen goes for an internal successor, the concern
is that he’s ingrained in the same culture of opportunistic
growth with light capital,” she said. “An external successor
might bring change, hopefully stronger risk management
especially when it comes to capital levels.”  Loan Losses  The CEO decision will be made by Raiffeisen’s supervisory
board led by Chairman Walter Rothensteiner, CEO of RZB. Thirteen
of the supervisory board’s  15 members  are executives or
employees of companies in the Raiffeisen group.  The bank may name Stepic’s deputy Karl Sevelda as caretaker
CEO, WirtschaftsBlatt newspaper reported today. Among the
candidates for a permanent successor are board members Martin Gruell and Johann Strobl,  Uniqa Versicherungen AG (UQA)  CEO Andreas Brandstetter and Casinos Austria AG CEO Karl Stoss, Austrian
media have reported.  Raiffeisen’s provisions for delinquent loans in the first
quarter declined 43 percent from the previous three-month period
and were 10 percent lower than analyst estimates. Costs also
fell by more than forecast.  The figures for the quarter were “decent results,” said
Stefan Nedialkov, an analyst at Citigroup Inc., in a note to
clients. “The market should like the better provisions and give
some partial credit to the beat in costs.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  