-- Train Wrecks Aren’t Always Catalysts for Better Safety
-- B y   A l b e r t   C h u r e l l a
-- 2013-05-28T15:52:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/train-wrecks-aren-t-always-catalysts-for-better-safety.html
On May 17, a Metro-North Railroad
 commuter train  hit a broken rail and sideswiped another train
near Fairfield,  Connecticut . The crash injured more than 70
people. Miraculously, no one was killed.  It could have been much worse. In 2008, the crash of
another commuter train -- California’s Metrolink -- killed 25
and injured many more. Unlike the Metro-North accident, the
California disaster probably was the result of human error,
specifically an engineer who was distracted as he sent  text
messages  on his phone.  That earlier crash still haunts the railroad industry.
That’s because it prompted Congress to pass the  Rail Safety
Improvement Act of 2008 . The measure requires the railroad
industry to install, by December 2015, so-called positive train
control, a high-tech system aimed at reducing human error on
trains. Railroads will have to bear the entire cost, which
industry executives estimate will ultimately exceed $5 billion,
and the railroads are lobbying Congress to delay the system’s
implementation and to scale it back.  Horrific Disasters  It’s tempting to view this as just another case of the
railroad industry being cavalier about  passenger safety . History
shows that the truth is more complicated. During the early years
of the 20th century, scores of passengers perished in horrific -
- and highly publicized -- disasters. Twenty dead at Mount
Union, Pennsylvania, in 1917, when an engineman failed to notice
a fog-obscured signal. Eighty-six died in  Indiana  the following
year, when an overmedicated engineer fell asleep. Less than
three weeks later, more than 100 people were killed in
Nashville,  Tennessee , in another accident caused by human error.  Then, too, a technological remedy was presented. The so-called  automatic train stop , which would apply the brakes of any
train whose engineman failed to obey a signal, offered the
promise of eliminating human error from railroad operations.
Railroaders, however, saw no need to install the ATS. Human
error leading to accidents was rare. Railroading was an
inherently dangerous occupation, but relatively few people died
in the types of spectacular accidents that generated newspaper
headlines.  Instead, they perished in ones and twos. Employees fell off
a train, or got crushed between cars. Ordinary people died while
walking along or across tracks. But very few people died in
major crashes and derailments. Instead, the vast majority of
railroad fatalities -- which the economist  Mark Aldrich  recently
determined numbered more than 5,500 lives in 1890 -- were due to
mundane accidents.  Much as the current debate over gun control centers on mass
shootings at the expense of individual murders and suicides, the
debate over automatic-train-stop technology a century ago was
driven by a focus on rare train crashes at the expense of the
banal accidents that ultimately claimed many more lives.  Yet, dispassionate economic calculations of the relative
cost-benefit of railroads’ capital investments compared with the
number of deaths that were prevented had little bearing on the
emotional trauma that accompanied a horrific wreck. Ceding to
public pressure, the Interstate Commerce Commission -- the
federal regulator for the railroads -- issued order No. 13413 in
1922. It required the railroads to install automatic-train-control systems on certain routes.  Rarer Crashes  It’s impossible to know how many lives were saved by ATS
technology, but it probably wasn’t very many. Railroads became
far safer during the 20th century, thanks to stronger rail, more
crash-resistant equipment and, above all, improved operating
practices and safety-awareness campaigns. Those enhancements
saved only one or two lives at a time, but that was where most
lives could be saved. By the 1950s, with passenger traffic in
steep decline, railroads removed most of their ATS equipment,
rather than bear the expense of maintaining it. Significantly,
the overall casualty rate on the railroads continued to fall.  ATS and its modern cousin,  PTC , would probably have
prevented the 2008  California  wreck -- though not the one at
Fairfield. But such accidents are even rarer than they were a
century ago, and it is unlikely that PTC will have a significant
effect on railroad safety. In fact, there are far more
productive ways for the railroads to spend $5 billion on safety:
grade-crossing improvements, as well as additional rest time and
better scheduling for train crews.  It’s even possible that PTC will make railroads less safe.
The high cost of installing the system will probably require
railroads to raise their rates, driving even more traffic to the
trucking industry. Unfortunately, more trucks on the highways
might increase the already-substantial number of fatalities
attributable to car-truck collisions.  ( Albert Churella  is an associate professor of social and
international studies at Southern Polytechnic State University.
He is the author of “From Steam to Diesel: Managerial Customs
and Organizational Capabilities in the Twentieth-Century
American Locomotive Industry” and “The  Pennsylvania  Railroad:
Volume 1, Building an Empire, 1846-1917.” The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more Echoes columns  online .  To contact the writer of this post:
Albert Churella at  achurell@spsu.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this post:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  