-- RBS Hires Ex-FSA Director Jon Pain as Head of Regulatory Affairs
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2013-05-28T13:41:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/rbs-hires-ex-fsa-director-jon-pain-as-head-of-regulatory-affairs.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc , the
recipient of the world’s biggest banking bailout, hired Jon Pain
as its head of conduct and regulatory affairs.  Pain was previously partner for financial services at
accounting firm KPMG LLP and had earlier led the Financial
Services Authority’s efforts at recapitalizing Britain’s banks
in the wake of the 2008 crisis, the Edinburgh-based lender said
in a statement today. Pain will take up the newly created role
in August.  RBS is the third U.K. bank to appoint a former regulator to
a senior compliance role as they seek to move on from a series
of missteps including the improper selling of loan insurance and
the rigging of interest rates.  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  said
last month that Irish central bank Deputy Governor Matthew Elderfield will join as director for conduct and compliance and
 Barclays Plc (BARC)  last year hired former FSA Chief Executive Officer
 Hector Sants  as head of compliance, government and regulatory
relations.  Pain will report directly to CEO  Stephen Hester  and join
the bank’s group executive committee with responsibility for
conduct and compliance oversight, RBS said.  Hester is  struggling  to turn around the 81 percent
government-owned lender and begin the process of returning it to
private ownership. The bank, which has announced more than
37,000 job cuts since its record 45.5 billion-pound ($69
billion) bailout in 2008 and 2009, will have completed most of
its restructuring next year, allowing the government to start
selling down its stake by the end of 2014, Hester has said.  RBS was fined $612 million in February for rigging
benchmark  interest rates  such as Libor and has set aside more
than 2 billion pounds to compensate customers wrongly sold
payment-protection insurance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  