-- Record Loss Looms at Tata as Buyers Shun Nano: Corporate India
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 2013-05-29T10:48:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/record-loss-looms-at-tata-as-buyers-shun-nano-corporate-india.html
Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT)  may report a  record
loss  at its Indian operations in the quarter ended March as
sluggish sales of its cars, including the world’s cheapest,
drags down earnings for the group that owns Jaguar  Land Rover .  The loss at the local business may result in group profit
at India’s biggest automaker dropping 57 percent, the largest
decline since former Chairman  Ratan Tata  acquired the luxury
units from Ford Motor Co. in 2008, according to a  median
estimate  of 40 analysts compiled by Bloomberg. The marquee
British brands accounted for 72 percent of the Mumbai-based
company’s revenue in the three months ended Dec. 31.  Promotions such as offering to buy back Manza sedans and
allowing customers to purchase the Nano using their credit cards
failed to lure buyers because their products are dated, driving
clients to rivals including  Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. (MSIL) , according
to Mohit Arora,  executive director  at J.D. Power Asia Pacific.
Tata Motors’ passenger vehicle sales in India fell 15 percent in
the year to March, while industrywide deliveries increased 2.2
percent.  “Tata is no longer an aspirational brand and in  India ,
cars are an aspirational purchase,” said Singapore-based Arora.
“They seem to be trying to do something about this but those
models are some time away, so the big challenge is how do you
hold on while the new models come in.”  Group  net income  probably fell to 26.5 billion rupees in
the three months ended March 31 from 62.3 billion rupees,
according to the analysts’ estimates. The India unit may report
a loss of 5.2 billion rupees, according to a median forecast of
six analysts. The company reports earnings today.  Share Performance  Deliveries at the luxury unit increased 19 percent to
116,340 vehicles in the three months ended March 31. In
comparison, sales at the local business plummeted 29 percent to
184,942 units, as customers in India held off purchases on
expensive loans and slowing economic growth.  Tata Motor’s shares have  dropped  2.8 percent this year,
while Maruti has risen 9.7 percent making it the best performing
stock on the 10-company S&P BSE Auto index. Tata Motors rose 2.7
percent to 303.80 rupees at the close in Mumbai.  The company led by Chairman Cyrus Mistry said in March it
would buy back Manza sedans, offering customers 60 percent of
the purchase price after three years to entice clients after its
passenger vehicle sales plunged 70 percent in February to the
lowest in a decade.  The offer failed to lure buyers. Tata Motors sold 54 Manza
cars a month later, compared with 2,445 the previous year, and
77 in April versus 750 a year earlier.  Card Purchase  Tata Motors in March also allowed customers to purchase the
Nano using their credit cards. It sold 948 Nanos in April,
compared with 8,028 a year earlier.  “The domestic business will remain under pressure for a
while,” said  Mahantesh Sabarad , an analyst at  Fortune Financial
Services India Ltd. (FFSI)  in Mumbai. “Volume growth is going to slow
down at JLR going forward, and what everyone will be focusing on
is free  cash flow .”  The Gaydon, England-based unit said in January that it may
report negative  free cash flow  in the year started April 1 as it
raises annual  capital spending  to 2.75 billion pounds ($4.1
billion) from 2 billion pounds to develop models and build a
factory in  China .  Lower priced models such as the Jaguar XF, Land Rover
Freelander and the best-selling Evoque accounted for more than
50 percent of the luxury units’ sales in the quarter, affecting
profit margins, according to company data. These models had an
average selling price of about 30,000 pounds compared with the
42,000-pound mean for its other models, Vijay Somaiya, head of
treasury at Tata Motors, said in a briefing on Jan. 24.  Emerging Markets  The automaker began deliveries of its two-seat F-Type
model, that starts from $69,000, this month. Jaguar expects the
U.S. to be the largest market for the model, accounting for
almost half its sales, the company said in a statement on May 9.  Jaguar Land Rover is turning to  emerging markets  such as
China,  Russia  and  South Africa  to pursue growth. Global retail
sales in the year ended March 31 rose 22 percent to 374,669
vehicles, with those in China surging 48 percent to 77,075
units, according to company data. China was the company’s
largest market, it said in January.  The luxury unit, together with Chery Automobile Co., is
investing 10.9 billion  yuan  ($1.8 billion) to build a
manufacturing plant in eastern China and is also studying the
feasibility for a plant in  Saudi Arabia , it said in December.
The company said last year it’s expanding Jaguar Land Rover
assembly at the automaker’s factory in Pune, located in the
western state of Maharashtra in India.  Bottom Ranked  Tata’s success with Jaguar and Land Rover isn’t helping its
brands in India. Tata Motors has sold 230,105 Nanos since
deliveries began in July 2009. In comparison Land Rover sold
173,684 Evoques since the model went on sale in September 2011.  The problems extend to its other models as well. Tata’s
Indica Vista hatchback, Indigo sedan and Safari sport utility
vehicle ranked near the bottom of  J.D. Power ’s 2012 India
Initial Quality Study. The company sold 12 Aria and Xenon
utility vehicles in April, versus 69 a year earlier, and sales
of Indica Vista dropped 20 percent to 7,893 in the month.  “The company needs to introduce new passenger car models
for the Indian market,” said Taina Erajuuri, a Helsinki-based
 fund manager  at FIM Asset Management Ltd.  “I remain cautious
at the moment with the stock. I prefer Maruti.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  