-- Regulating Political Intelligence Is Dumb Idea
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-05-28T22:00:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/regulating-political-intelligence-is-dumb-idea.html
“Political intelligence” can be hard
to define but profitable to hold. This tension has prompted some
members of Congress to ask whether new federal rules are needed
to regulate the small, amorphous and growing industry that
charges clients a hefty fee for such information.  The answer to that question is easy: No. The harder
question is how to strike the right balance between government
transparency and the government’s interaction with private
industry.  The debate is prompted in part by a federal investigation
of a relatively obscure investment-research firm, Height
Securities. On April 1, it correctly  predicted  a policy decision
by President  Barack Obama ’s administration on payments to health
insurers. As a result, trading in equity shares of some health-care-related companies soared in the minutes before U.S. stock
exchanges closed. The government subsequently confirmed Height’s
prediction.  Political intelligence is as old as politics itself.
Lobbyists, lawyers, public-policy advocates and diplomats -- not
to mention journalists -- have long traded secrets, rumors,
smoke signals and the occasional lie. Even the dullest capital
has its intrigues, and access to the right dinner parties,
boards of directors and other power zones is widely (and
correctly) understood to provide advantages.  Fully regulating this flow of information is, frankly,
impossible. White House officials, like members of Congress,
meet with lobbyists regularly, and  the right to petition  the
government is enshrined in the Constitution.  The right to glean potentially valuable investment
information in a private meeting, on the other hand, is not.
Executive-branch employees are prohibited from using nonpublic
government information to advance private interests (including
their own). So why do investment executives arrange such
meetings, as the Washington Post  reported  last weekend?
Presumably because they find them valuable. And if they are
valuable to private investors, they have value to the public.  Hence the calls for greater transparency in the political-intelligence industry from the likes of Republican Senator Chuck Grassley of  Iowa  and Democratic Representative Louise Slaughter
of  New York . “When a political intelligence professional is paid
to gather inside information from congressional or agency
sources that can be used to make investment decisions, that
professional should have to register and disclose his or her
activities to the public,” they said in a  joint statement .  But as a recent Government Accountability Office  report 
makes clear, it’s not so simple. The report cites the difficulty
of defining what political intelligence is, what information
would need to be disclosed and by whom. “There could also be
legal challenges to requiring such disclosure (based on
perceived restrictions on First Amendment rights),” the report
states.  No kidding. The Internet has enabled an explosion of
insider newsletters and websites that strive to give subscribers
government information faster and better than the competition.
(Disclosure: Bloomberg Government is one such service.) Would
this information count as political intelligence? More broadly,
political speech enjoys strong constitutional protection; it’s
hard to see how political intelligence wouldn’t merit similar
deference.  The government has a vital interest in making sure
businesses are informed about relevant public policies. That’s
especially true in complex areas such as health care, where the
economic impact is also great. If members of the White House
staff are compelled to meet with investors, maybe they could
also post video of their meetings on the White House website,
thus transforming these private encounters into public
education.  It’s impossible to stop the advantage gained from a
strategic seating at a Georgetown dinner party: That’s life. But
the White House and Congress aren’t dinner parties. They have an
obligation to make sure their information is accessible to all.
That’s the abiding principle. New disclosure regulations,
however, aren’t the best way to serve it.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 