-- Repo Clampdown, Eiopa Power Expansion, Google: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-05-28T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/repo-clampdown-eiopa-power-expansion-google-compliance.html
Banks and brokers face a clampdown on
using assets they hold for clients as collateral for their own
trades as part of European Union moves to bolster market
stability and rein in shadow banking.  The European Commission is weighing whether firms should
have to obtain formal consent from their clients before being
allowed to reuse assets to back other trades, according to a
document obtained by  Bloomberg News . The consent would be
enshrined in a “contractual agreement” between the parties.  The handing over of collateral is an integral part of
repurchase agreements, or repos -- one of the activities under
review by global regulators as part of their efforts to regulate
shadow banking. The reuse of clients’ assets poses a potential
threat to financial stability should one of a chain of firms
that handled the securities go bankrupt, according to the
document prepared by commission officials and dated May 15.
Uncertainty about who holds an asset can fuel panic in times of
market stress, according to the paper.  “Complex” chains of collateral can make it difficult for
investors to “identify who owns what, where risk is
concentrated and who is exposed to whom,” according to the
document. “This has consequences for transparency and financial
stability.”  Under the plans being weighed by the commission, banks and
brokers holding securities for clients wouldn’t be allowed to
reuse the assets for trading on their own account -- speculation
on the markets aimed solely at boosting their own revenues,
according to the document.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  Google Said to Face New Antitrust Probe on Display-Ad Market  Google Inc. (GOOG)  is facing a new antitrust probe by the U.S.
Federal Trade Commission into whether the company is using its
leadership in the online display-advertising market to illegally
curb competition, people familiar with the matter said.  The fresh inquiry, which follows the FTC’s decision to
close a review of Google’s search business in January without
taking action, is in the preliminary stages and may not expand
into a larger probe, said the people, who asked not to be named
because the matter hasn’t been made public.  FTC investigators are examining whether Google is using its
position in U.S. display ads -- a $17.7 billion industry that
includes the sale of banner ads on websites -- to push companies
to use more of its other services, a practice that can be
illegal under antitrust laws, the people said. Google has been
drawing regulatory scrutiny around the world as it bolsters its
market share of digital advertising.  Canada ’s Competition Bureau is preparing to start a formal
inquiry into Google’s search practices, the company has
disclosed. The European Union is investigating Google for the
way it operates the search business and also has opened a probe
into its handset unit, Motorola Mobility, over the licensing of
its patents to rival device makers. Antitrust agencies in
 Argentina  and South Korea are also scrutinizing the company.  Niki Fenwick, a spokeswoman for Google, and  Peter Kaplan , a
spokesman for the FTC, declined to comment on the probe.  China Reaches Agreement With U.S. for Sharing Auditors’ Records  China  agreed to give a U.S. regulator access to documents
from Chinese accounting firms, moving toward a resolution of a
dispute that could have pushed the country’s companies to stop
trading on U.S. markets.  The  Public Company Accounting Oversight Board , the China
Securities Regulatory Commission and China’s Ministry of Finance
signed the agreement May 7, the ministry said in a statement on
its website May 24. The deal is a step toward resolving other
disputes including one with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission, PCAOB Chairman  James Doty  was quoted as saying by
the Wall Street Journal, which  reported  the agreement earlier
the same day.  The SEC last year accused affiliates of the world’s top
four auditing firms of withholding documents from investigators
probing potential fraud by China-based companies. Auditors that
don’t comply with the regulator’s demands face temporary or
permanent deregistration in the U.S., according to the rule
under which the proceedings were brought, meaning they wouldn’t
be able to audit U.S.-listed companies.  Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu CPA Ltd., Ernst & Young Hua Ming
LLP, KPMG Huazhen and PricewaterhouseCoopers Zhong Tian CPAs
Ltd. refused to cooperate with accounting investigations into
nine companies whose securities are traded in the U.S., the SEC
said in an administrative order in December. BDO China Dahua Co.
was also named by the SEC in the action.  The auditors had said Chinese law prevented them from
meeting the SEC’s demands.  Courts  ASIC Appeals Decision in Macquarie Bank Class Action Settlement  The  Australian Securities and Investments Commission 
appealed a recent decision of the Federal Court of Australia to
approve the settlement between former Storm Financial clients
and  Macquarie Bank , the regulator said on its website.  The settlement follows a class action brought against the
bank by Sydney law firm  Levitt Robinson , according to ASIC.  Under terms of the settlement, Macquarie Bank will pay
A$82.5 million ($79.6 million), including legal and
administrative costs, in final settlement of the claims of 1,050
Storm Financial clients who took out margin loans with the bank.  Interviews/Speeches/Meetings  ECB’s Constancio Sees Some Non-Euro States Joining SSM  European Central Bank Vice President  Vitor Constancio  spoke
in Brussels about participants of the Single Supervisory
Mechanism, bank stress tests and maintaining regulatory
standards.  For the video, click here.  U.S. Technology Needs ‘World’s Brightest,’ Shapiro Says  Gary Shapiro , president of the  Consumer Electronics
Association , talked about U.S. immigration policy and its impact
on the technology industry. His discussion included the impact
of the U.S. tax code and competition with Canada for talent.  He spoke with  Betty Liu  on Bloomberg Television’s “In the
Loop.”  For the video, click here.  European Insurance Watchdog Wants More Powers and Industry Levy  The  European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority ,
the European Union’s insurance watchdog, called for extending
its powers to include directly banning and restricting financial
activities to enhance its supervision.  Eiopa, which is charged with drafting new solvency rules
for European insurers, also wants to “explore partial financing
by levying fees” on the insurance companies it regulates,
according to a speech by Chairman Gabriel Bernardino, who
attended a public hearing on financial supervision in Brussels
May 24.  The authority, which is one of the three European
supervisory bodies for the financial industry, is currently
funded by the European Union, which directly pays 40 percent of
its budget, while the remaining 60 percent is paid by the member
states.  Eiopa wants more flexibility in its financing and says
exploring a levy as well as getting financing through an
independent budget line in the EU’s general budget are steps
“necessary in order to strengthen the operational independence
of Eiopa” and to attract qualified staff, according to the
speech.  Bernardino also wants direct access to information of
individual insurers and to be able to directly conduct inquiries
into financial institutions, products or behavior. It currently
has to go through local supervisors.  HSBC Says ‘Worrying’ Countries Act Unilaterally on Rules  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  Chairman  Douglas Flint  said it’s
“worrying” that more countries are acting unilaterally on
regulation as financial oversight undergoes its biggest change
since the Great Depression of the 1930s.  Flint made the remarks to shareholders at the bank’s annual
meeting in London May 24. His comments came the day after  Peter
Sands , chief executive officer of  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) , the
other U.K. bank that gains most of its profit in Asia, said
British banks face an “avalanche” of regulation with rules
imposed “increasingly at the national level.”  Flint apologized after the HSBC agreed in December to
settle U.S. charges that it helped Mexican and Colombian drug
cartels launder millions of dollars in trafficking proceeds. It
has set aside $1.9 billion for settlements, while increasing
spending on compliance by $500 million in 2012.  He said at the meeting, where he also apologized, that the
bank was “humbled and horrified to discover failings of such
magnitude.” The bank has “paid huge penalties both in monetary
cost and reputational damage,” Flint told shareholders.  Comings and Goings  Raiffeisen Chief Stepic Offers to Quit After Offshore Probe  Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI)  Chief Executive Officer
Herbert Stepic offered to resign from Eastern Europe’s second-biggest lender, a day after officials began a probe into his
investments through offshore accounts.  Raiffeisen will “promptly consider” Stepic’s offer to
quit, the Vienna-based lender said in a statement May 24.  Raiffeisen ordered an internal review May 23 to determine
whether Stepic’s offshore accounts, set up by  UBS AG (UBSN)  to invest
in Singapore real estate, comply with bank rules. Austria’s
financial market regulator has also requested more information.  Stepic will stay at the bank until Raiffeisen decides
whether to accept the resignation, the lender said.  Finding a replacement may not be easy, said Erste Bank’s
Guenter Hohberger, who advises investors to buy Raiffeisen
shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  