-- Retailers Ready for Showdown Over Credit-Card Fee Deal
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-05-28T18:40:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/retailers-ready-for-showdown-over-credit-card-fee-deal.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and  Costco
Wholesale Corp. (COST) , among more than 500 merchants objecting to a
$7.25 billion antitrust settlement with credit card firms over
swipe fees, say the deal is meaningless as long as card
companies can fix fees charged retailers on each transaction.  Sears Holdings Corp. (SHLD) ,  Target Corp., (TGT)   TJX Cos. (TJX)  and  Barnes &
Noble Inc. (BKS)  also have opposed the agreement being considered by a
federal judge in Brooklyn, New York, as merchants face today’s
deadline for filing objections to the deal. The settlement,
estimated by plaintiffs to be the largest ever in an antitrust
case, could receive final approval after a Sept. 12 hearing.  “Given that Visa and MasterCard can continue to fix
interchange, they can recoup the settlement amount quickly by
raising interchange rates in the future,” said Jai Holtz, vice
president of financial services for Sears, in an objection filed
May 25. “The one-time payment could be entirely eviscerated by
increased fees or newly-imposed fees just months after it is
paid.”  The effort by companies follows years of tensions over the
fees, which amount to as much as two percent of every sale where
a customer pays with a card. Major retailers and trade
associations contend that the deal isn’t nearly big enough and
unfairly binds all merchants nationwide against suing over the
fees in the future.  ‘Significant Scrutiny’  Foster City, California-based Visa and Purchase, New York-based MasterCard said they anticipate the deal will be approved.  “We are highly confident that final approval will be
granted, and that the epic battle over interchange fees is
finally over,” said Trish Wexler, spokeswoman for the
 Electronic Payments Coalition , which represents card companies
and banks.  In November, U.S. District Judge John Gleeson gave
tentative approval to the deal, saying there were “issues that
are going to require significant scrutiny,” though not enough
to derail a preliminary sign-off. He said he would appoint an
outside expert to weigh in.  Though the outcome is unusual, parties opposed to a class-action settlement have persuaded judges to throw deals out at
the final approval stage, said  Howard Langer , an adjunct
professor at the  University of Pennsylvania Law School  and
commercial class action lawyer.  Strong Objections  Langer, who isn’t involved in the settlement, said in a
phone interview that strong objections can arise in situations
where there is mandatory participation in some part of a deal,
as in the interchange case.  “It always raises significant concern in a case when one
person is bringing a lawsuit in which other people are going to
be bound by the result,” he said.  The interchange settlement has two parts: a portion under
which merchants receive payments for damages, and another under
which credit card companies promise certain rule changes.
Merchants could have opted out of the damages portion by
notifying the court by May 28. They weren’t eligible to opt out
of the rule change portion, which also prohibits all merchants
in the country from bringing future lawsuits over the fees.  If the number of retailers dropping out of the deal makes
up more than 25 percent of Visa’s and MasterCard’s total credit
card volume, the card companies and major banks, including  JP
Morgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C) , and  Bank of America Corp. ,
have the option to walk away from the agreement.  Opted Out  Reaching that threshold is unlikely, according to a July
analysis by investment bank Keefe, Bruyette & Woods. The top 100
merchants in the U.S. represent about 25 percent of the total
volume, according to the analysis. Of those, about 15 have
already agreed to their own settlement with Visa and MasterCard.
While many of the objecting retailers have also opted out of the
damages portion of the deal, their share of credit card volume
is likely to be small, according to the analysis.  At the final approval hearing, the judge would mainly
consider whether the settlement meets legal requirements, said
Samuel Issacharoff, a professor at the New York University
School of Law, in a phone interview.  In theory, the drop-outs “should have no effect” on the
approval process, said Issacharoff, NYU’s  Bonnie and Richard
Reiss Professor of Constitutional Law . “In practice, a lot of
these who have opted out could go to the detriment of the
settlement as a whole, more for atmospheric reasons.”  Customer Use  In their objections, retailers said the settlement promises
just a fraction of the tens of billions of dollars in
interchange fees paid over the years. The retailers said they
must continue to pay the fees because they can’t afford to stop
accepting Visa and MasterCard credit cards used by many
customers.  “It is a massive price fixing agreement in front of
everybody,” said Joseph Alioto, a San Francisco antitrust
lawyer who isn’t involved in the settlement. “The ones that are
really hurt are the consumers. They don’t have a case,” he
said, adding that merchants often raise their prices to make up
for extra costs.  When a customer swipes a card at a retailer’s check-out
counter, fees are deducted from the amount that the merchant
ultimately receives. Interchange, the largest of the deductions,
is collected by Visa and MasterCard to be passed along to the
customers’ and merchants’ banks, according to the card firms’
annual reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission.  ‘Core Evil’  The fees provide an incentive to banks to do business with
Visa and MasterCard, according to the reports. Banks, in turn,
pay Visa and MasterCard for use of their networks, the card
firms said in the reports.  The  National Retail Federation , which opposes the deal,
said in a brief filed with the court today that the settlement
“fails to address the core evil that motivated this class
action and that continues to plague the industry: the outside
economic power of and the manipulation of interchange rates by
Visa, MasterCard and their constituent banks.”  The lawsuit that gave rise to the settlement is one of a
series of legal actions and policy developments aimed at reining
in the fees. The Durbin Amendment to the  Dodd-Frank Wall Street
Reform and Consumer Protection Act  of 2010 imposed caps on debit
card interchange fees. Also in 2010, Visa and MasterCard
consented to rule changes allowing merchants to steer customers
to lower-cost credit and debit cards under a settlement with the
U.S. Justice Department.  Growing Concerns  A lead plaintiff in the suit, California small businessman
Mitch Goldstone, said the opposition to the settlement is
misguided.  “If this goes to trial, it’s going to take 10 years. All
the while, Visa and MasterCard can charge any rate they want,
unchecked,” Goldstone, owner of Irvine-based ScanMyPhotos.com,
said in a phone interview.  Goldstone discussed his growing concerns about interchange
fees on his bog  www.WayTooHigh.com . His crusade was featured in
an April 2005 Wall Street Journal article, he said.  Lawyers from Minneapolis-based class action firm Robins,
Kaplan Miller & Ciresi LLP reached out to Goldstone after the
article was published, he said. Goldstone remained a vocal
advocate of the settlement on his blog and Twitter account
@WayTooHigh even after other named plaintiffs turned against the
deal.  Incentive Payments  Goldstone said that he expects to be financially rewarded
for his publicity efforts. Lawyers representing the plaintiffs
have requested incentive payments worth $200,000 for each named
plaintiff, according to a proposed order filed with the court.
The lawyers are seeking about $750 million in fees and expenses
from the settlement fund.  “Most certainly, this was my Erin Brockovich moment,”
Goldstone said, comparing his pursuit of claims against the
credit card firms to the work of the famous legal advocate
played by Julia Roberts in an eponymous movie.  “I’ve been flying to  Washington , to New York. It was very
exciting to meet Judge Gleeson in his chambers,” he said.
“It’s a very inspiring story how a single merchant can be at
the table with the biggest people. It’s proof that the little
guy can accomplish something very big.”  Lawyers for the plaintiffs and credit card firms have
questioned the motives of the objectors. In August, lawyers for
Visa said in a letter to the court that a lawyer representing
many of the objectors, Jeffrey Shinder, has a conflict of
interest because his firm, Constantine Cannon LLC, has also
advised a competing startup payment network, the  Merchant
Customer Exchange .  ‘Publicity Campaign’  Lawyers from plaintiffs’ firm Berger & Montague PC said in
an August letter that the National Association of Convenience
Stores, one of the earliest opponents of the settlement, and
Shinder “orchestrated an extrajudicial publicity campaign
against the settlement.”  At a hearing in November, a lawyer for the plaintiffs,
Patrick Coughlin, said the opposition was “literally
orchestrated by a small group” and referred to MCX, formed by
merchants including Target and Wal-Mart.  Last week, Visa, MasterCard and the banks sued the
convenience stores association, and other trade groups and
retailers that were involved in litigation over the deal and
rejected it, seeking declaration from a court that the fee
practices weren’t illegal.  A group of 17 retailers led by Target filed their own
lawsuit on May 23 in federal court in  Manhattan  seeking damages
for the swipe fees.  “Plaintiffs have paid and continue to pay significantly
higher costs to accept Visa-branded and MasterCard-branded
credit and debit cards than they would if the banks issuing such
cards competed for merchant acceptance,” the retailers said in
their complaint.  The case is In re Payment Card Interchange Fee and Merchant
Discount Antitrust Litigation, 05-md-01720, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of New York ( Brooklyn ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in New York at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 