-- Trina Leads Solar Rally as Vipshop Tumbles: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-05-28T20:53:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/trina-leads-solar-rally-on-demand-outlook-china-overnight.html
Solar companies led a rally in
Chinese stocks traded in New York after Deutsche Bank AG said
the outlook of demand for the renewable energy is improving.  The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Chinese stocks in the U.S. climbed 1.2 percent to 93.09
yesterday, rising for the first time in five days.  Trina Solar 
Ltd., the world’s fourth-largest solar module producer, jumped
10 percent while  Yingli Green Energy Holding Co. (YGE)  advanced for a
third day. Suntech Power Holdings Co. and LDK Solar Co. rose to
one-week highs. Web fashion retailer  Vipshop Holdings Ltd. (VIPS) 
tumbled the most in 14 months after the stock was downgraded.  The outlook of the solar industry is improving due to
“strong” demand from  Japan , the U.S., China and other  emerging
markets  while supply cuts have accelerated, Deutsche Bank
analysts led by Vishal Shah wrote in a note dated May 27.
European Union Trade Commissioner Karel De Gucht yesterday
defended a plan to impose provisional duties on Chinese solar
manufacturers, two days after German  Chancellor Angela Merkel 
said she’ll strive to ensure no permanent tariffs will be set.  “We’re starting to see more project activity globally
rather than just Europe, which will be instrumental in driving
supply lower,” David Smith, manager of the Gabelli Green Fund
at  Gamco Investors Inc. (GBL) , said by e-mail from Purchase, New York
yesterday. “If the margins are on the upswing, then it’s time
to own those names that have been so beaten down.”  ETF Jumps  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund (FXI) , the largest Chinese
 exchange-traded fund  in the U.S., surged 1.6 percent in New York
to $37.16, the steepest gain in five weeks. The Standard and
Poor’s 500 Index added 0.6 percent to 1,660.06 after data showed
U.S.  consumer confidence  climbed to the highest level since 2008
and home values jumped the most in seven years.  Trina Solar’s American depositary receipts surged to $6.79,
rising the most since May 20.  The Guangzhou, China-based company is  scheduled  to release
first-quarter figures today before markets open. Shipments for
the quarter will be 390 megawatts to 400 megawatts compared with
an earlier estimate of 420 megawatts to 430 megawatts, it said
in a statement May 14. It may revise its 2013 shipment forecast
of 2 gigawatts to 2.1 gigawatts on a conference call to discuss
the results today, according to the statement.  Supply cuts at China’s second- and third-tier solar makers
have accelerated over the past 18 months and supply from large
companies, including Suntech and LDK, decreased “sharply,”
Deutsche’s Shah said in the note.  Solar Rally  “We believe solar rally has legs,” he wrote.
“EU/US/ China  tariff outcome uncertainty remains the primary
policy overhang for the solar sector -- a positive outcome on
this front with gradual profitability improvement could act as
the next set of catalysts for solar stocks.”  Chinese premier Li Keqiang said he “decisively” rejected
the imposition of EU duties at a joint press conference with
Merkel in Berlin May 26. The U.S. government is also engaged in
preliminary talks with the EU and China to settle the solar
dispute, according to people familiar with the discussions.  Yingli, the largest solar-panel maker globally, climbed 8.2
percent to $3.45 in New York on its third day of gains.  The company, based in Baoding of Hebei province, is due to
report first-quarter earnings tomorrow. Shipments for the
quarter will decline about 6 percent to 7 percent from the prior
three months, it said in a May 21 statement. That compared with
its March forecast for a slump in the “low to mid-teen
percentage.”  Vipshop Downgrade  Suntech, which was forced into bankruptcy in March after
defaulting on a bond payment, increased 3.5 percent to $1.02.
LDK Solar, based in Xinyu of Jiangxi province, gained 4.2
percent to $1.73. LDK said yesterday it plans to release first-quarter earnings on June 11.  Vipshop (VIP)  tumbled 13 percent to $29.53, the biggest one-day
slide since March 2012. Trading volume on Vipshop’s ADRs was
more than three times the daily average over the past three
months, data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  The company had the steepest loss on the China-US gauge.
The ADR’s slide cut its advance this year to 66 percent.  Deutsche Bank cut its  recommendation  on the stock to hold
from buy on May 27, citing the shares’ valuation and
intensifying competition in the Internet flash sales market.
Vipshop shares are trading at 27 times 12-month estimated
profit, from 20 at the beginning of this year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Greater Scrutiny’  Vipshop “may be misleading in its customer counts,”
according to a report by Greenwich Research Group  posted  on the
Seeking Alpha website May 24.  “While we view much of the analysis to be questionable, we
believe the article could trigger greater scrutiny around the
company,” Deutsche Bank analyst Alan Hellawell said in the note
yesterday.  Guangzhou-based Vipshop issued a statement after markets
closed yesterday, saying the allegations “contain numerous
errors, unsupported speculation and a general misunderstanding
of the company’s business model.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  of domestic Chinese shares
advanced 1.2 percent to a two-month high of 2,321.32, while the
 Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  in Hong Kong climbed 1.6
percent to 10,920.58, the biggest rally in a month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Laura Zelenko at 
 lzelenko@bloomberg.net  