-- Roberto Martinez to Leave as Wigan Manager, Can Speak to Everton
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-05-28T15:48:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/roberto-martinez-to-leave-as-wigan-manager-can-speak-to-everton.html
Roberto Martinez , who led Wigan
Athletic to its first F.A. Cup title this season, will leave
after getting permission to speak with Premier League soccer
rival Everton about its vacant coaching job.  The 39-year-old manager met today with Wigan Chairman Dave Whelan, who gave the Spaniard permission to talk with Everton
about replacing  David Moyes . Martinez couldn’t prevent the
team’s relegation this season from the Premier League, which it
joined in 2005.  “He says he feels it’s time, he’s got to move on,” Whelan
said in an interview with  Sky Sports . “He doesn’t feel equipped
to take Wigan Athletic back to the Premier League. I’ve got to
respect his decision.”  Martinez has been linked in U.K. media to the managerial
posts at Everton and Stoke. Whelan said Everton Chairman Bill Kenwright called him and asked for permission to speak with the
manager.  Martinez has one year remaining on a 12-month rolling
contract, so Wigan would be entitled to compensation worth 2
million pounds ($3 million), according to Whelan.  “To get a manager like Roberto, I think that’s really
cheap,” Whelan told Sky.  Wigan upset Manchester City 1-0 to win the F.A. Cup for the
first time in its 81-year history on May 11. The Latics were
relegated from the Premier League three days later after a 4-1
loss at Arsenal, becoming the first club to drop out of the
first division the same season it won the F.A. Cup.  Martinez joined Wigan in June 2009 after two seasons at
Swansea. The Latics finished no better than 15th place during
his tenure, but were able to avoid relegation in his first three
seasons using late-season rallies. They weren’t able to pull
another off this season and finished 18th in the 20-team league,
three points from safety behind Sunderland.  Everton is looking to fill the void left when Moyes was
named to replace the retired  Alex Ferguson  at  Manchester United ,
while  Tony Pulis  left Stoke by mutual consent on May 21.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 