-- Rosneft May Overpay With $3 Billion Bid to Gain Itera, Banks Say
-- B y   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n
-- 2013-05-28T09:41:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/rosneft-may-overpay-with-3-billion-bid-to-gain-itera-banks-say.html
OAO Rosneft may be overpaying if it
goes ahead with reported plans to buy the remaining shares in an
Itera natural gas venture for about $3 billion, according to
Sberbank CIB and VTB Capital.  Rosneft plans to close the acquisition of the 49 percent of
Itera that it doesn’t already own in the next two months,
 Kommersant  newspaper said today, citing an unidentified person.  “Rosneft is paying a rather hefty price for the gas assets
without any major growth upside,” Sberbank CIB analysts Oleg
Maximov, Alex Fak and  Valery Nesterov  wrote in a research note
today. Sberbank valued the 49 percent share in the Itera units,
where production is in decline, at $2.7 billion.  Rosneft became the world’s largest publicly traded oil
producer by output this year after a $55 billion deal to buy
Russia’s third-largest producer, TNK-BP. In a bid to boost its
natural gas business, the state-run company clinched supply
contracts with utilities and formed the venture with Itera.  Rosneft spokesman Vladimir Tyulin and Itera spokesman
Alexander Goryunov declined to comment on the Kommersant report.  Rosneft seeks to boost natural gas output from an estimated
41 billion cubic meters this year to 100 billion cubic meters in
2020, according to an April 25 investor  presentation .  The bid looks expensive at $78 per barrel of oil equivalent
of output, VTB Capital analysts Dmitry Loukashov, Alexander
Kirevnin, Ekaterina Rodina and Elena Kopylova wrote in a
research note today.  “We would expect to see a negative market reaction” if
the deal materializes, the VTB Capital analysts wrote.  Rosneft rose 0.6 percent to 212.81 rubles by 1:35 p.m. in
Moscow trading, compared with a 1.4 percent gain in the 50-stock
Micex Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Bierman in Moscow at 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  