-- Rupiah Forwards at Biggest Discount to Spot Rate Since January
-- B y   Y u d i t h   H o
-- 2013-05-28T10:33:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/rupiah-forwards-at-biggest-discount-to-spot-rate-since-january.html
Indonesia ’s rupiah forwards slid to
the biggest discount to the spot rate in four months on
speculation the central bank was intervening to support the
currency in the onshore market.  One-month non-deliverable contracts traded 1.3 percent
weaker than the onshore rate, matching a May 24 gap that was the
widest gap since Jan. 30. The forwards declined 0.5 percent to
9,924 per dollar as of 4:51 p.m. in Jakarta, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The spot price was steady at 9,795, after
closing at 9,791 yesterday, prices from local banks show.  Bank Indonesia  is committed to maintaining the currency’s
stability in line with economic fundamentals, Deputy Governor
Perry Warjiyo said last week. The onshore and offshore rates
converged on Feb. 1, three days after the central bank said it
stepped up intervention and boosted dollar supply to help narrow
the gap, the monetary authority said.  “You can see the spot level bouncing around, most likely
because of Bank Indonesia’s intervention,” said Andy Ji, a
foreign-exchange strategist at  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA)  in
 Singapore . “The real demand is shown in the forwards market
where it’s approaching the 10,000 level as seen at the beginning
of the year as well.”  One-month forwards earlier reached 9,933 per dollar, the
lowest level since Jan 11, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  last week signaled
a possible decrease of monthly bond buying that boosts the
supply of dollars.  “It’s going to be challenging for Bank Indonesia to keep
maintaining the rupiah at this level with so much demand for
dollars,” Ji said, adding that the central bank probably has
measures to persuade local banks without needing to sell the
greenback directly to the market. “I remain long dollar against
the rupiah due to sentiment regarding the Fed stimulus.”  The currency’s one-month implied volatility, a measure of
expected moves in the  exchange rate  used to price options, rose
28 basis points, or 0.28 percentage point, to 7.4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yudith Ho in Jakarta at 
 yho35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  