-- Russia Hails ‘Stabilizing’ Sale of Missiles to Syria
-- B y   S t e p a n   K r a v c h e n k o   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2013-05-28T19:37:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/russia-says-s-300-missile-sale-to-syria-will-stabilize-region.html
Delivery of long-range anti-aircraft
missiles to Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s forces “is a
stabilizing factor,” Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Sergei Ryabkov said, even as  Israel  denounced the decision.  “We won’t cancel this contract,” Ryabkov told reporters
today in Moscow. “We understand the concerns and the signals
that are being sent to us from different capitals. We see that
many of our partners are worried about this, but we have no
reasons to reconsider our position.”  The S-300 missiles with a range of 200-300 kilometers (186
miles) are a threat to Israel and can reach aircraft over Ben
Gurion airport, Yuval Steinitz, Israeli Minister of
International Relations, told reporters today. That makes them
“not just defensive weapons, but offensive,” he said, calling
the Russian move “terribly wrong.”  The exchanges came hours after the  European Union 
authorized arms sales to the Syrian opposition. While Britain
and  France , the prime movers behind the decision, said there
would be no immediate shipments to rebels, both countries said
the move was intended to narrow the options for Assad, who has
clung to power during two years of civil war that has cost
80,000 Syrian lives.  Ryabkov accused the EU of “pouring oil on the flames of
the conflict.” The Russian minister declined to say what stage
the S-300 deliveries have reached, but Israel’s Defense Minister
Moshe Ya’alon said the systems have not yet been shipped. “If,
by some misfortune, they arrive in  Syria , we will know what to
do,” he told reporters today.  ‘Destabilizing’ Sale  The  S-300 , first deployed by the  Soviet Union  in late
1970s, would be “destabilizing” for Israel’s security, U.S.
Secretary of State  John Kerry  said on May 9 in  Rome .  “We disagree with, and we condemn, the continued supply of
Russian weapons to the regime,” U.S. State Department spokesman
Patrick Ventrell told reporters today in  Washington . “We’ve
been clear throughout and very direct with the Russian
government about that.”  At the same time, Ventrell said the U.S. and  Russia  agree
on the goal of reaching a negotiated settlement to the Syrian
conflict.  Ruslan Pukhov , head of the Center of Analysis of Strategies
and Technologies in Moscow, questioned the military impact of
the weapons.  “This is more about politics than real arms supply,” he
said by phone. “The S-300 in the Syrian case is an attract-fire-to-yourself kind of weapon. Imagine what will happen if
they shoot down an Israeli plane? Assad needs more soldiers and
light weapons and not anti-aircraft systems.”  Arms Transfers  The sale “is a massive game-changer,”  Anthony Cordesman ,
a military analyst at the Center for Strategic and international
Studies in Washington, said in an e-mail. “It virtually ensures
that the U.S.-Russian talks will be  meaningless, sends warning
signals about similar arms transfer to  Iran , can drag Israel
into the Syrian fighting, and would sharply alter U.S. and
allied ‘no fly’ capabilities if the Syrians can quickly absorb
the system.”  The EU decision had harmed the prospects of success for an
international peace conference and is a “risky step,” Ryabkov
said. Kerry and Russia’s Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  met in
Paris on May 27 to discuss the conference. The U.S. and Russia
are “deeply committed” to making the peace conference work,
Kerry said after the meeting.  Peace Talks  “The chances for success are there,” Lavrov said. “We
will do everything in our power to use those chances to make
them realized.”  The U.S. has also complained about Russian supplies of
anti-ship missiles to Assad.  Lieutenant General Michael Flynn, director of the  Defense
Intelligence Agency , told Congress last month that Russia was
supplying Syria with a supersonic anti-ship cruise missile
called the Yakhont, a weapon with a range of 300 kilometers that
he said poses “a major threat to naval operations, particularly
in the eastern Mediterranean.”  Israel has repeatedly warned Syria this year that it will
act to prevent any shipments of advanced arms to Lebanon’s
Hezbollah’s militia. Israeli officials have declined to say
whether it was responsible for three air strikes against Syrian
targets, most recently this month.  President  Vladimir Putin  warned against steps that might
worsen the Syrian conflict at a meeting with Israeli Prime
Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  in Sochi, Russia, on May 14. The
S-300 issue was discussed at the meeting, according to Putin’s
spokesman, Dmitry Peskov.  Three Lebanese soldiers were killed by unidentified gunmen
in a drive-by shooting at a checkpoint near the Syrian border
today, raising concerns that the civil war is spreading.  The unidentified gunmen escaped after opening fire from a
car on an army roadblock in Arsal in the northeast, the official
Lebanese National News Agency reported.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stepan Kravchenko in Moscow at 
 skravchenko@bloomberg.net ;
 Henry Meyer  in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  