-- Russia’s Syria Missile Sale Signals Protracted Conflict
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2013-05-28T23:31:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/russia-s-syria-missile-sale-signals-protracted-conflict.html
Russia’s decision to sell advanced
anti-aircraft missiles to  Syria  complicates efforts to find a
swift diplomatic resolution to that country’s civil war and
underscores the persistent strains in U.S.-Russian relations.  Moscow’s announcement yesterday came less than 24 hours
after U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry  met Russian Foreign
Minister  Sergei Lavrov  to discuss plans for peace talks on Syria
and a day after the European Union lifted its arms embargo on
Syrian rebel groups.  “You have a level of division between Russia and the U.S.
before you even start these talks that makes it even harder to
bring the parties together,” said  Anthony Cordesman , a former
official with the Defense and State departments and the White
House, speaking of a peace conference proposed by Kerry and
Lavrov on May 7.  Kerry and Lavrov have yet to resolve basic differences
about the proposed talks in Geneva, signaling a drawn-out
process that could benefit Syrian President Bashar al-Assad as
Russia continues to send him naval support and weaponry.
Russia’s decision to sell the S-300 missiles also bares tensions
with President  Barack Obama ’s administration, despite the U.S.
push for a “reset” meant to establish a new relationship.  In the last year, Russia and the U.S. have clashed over a
U.S. no-fly list for Russians suspected of human rights abuses,
American adoptions of Russian children, alleged American spies
in Moscow, and Russia’s expulsion of the U.S. Agency for
International Development, among other issues. Syria now
threatens to become the most volatile issue.  U.S. Condemnation  State Department spokesman Patrick Ventrell said yesterday
that U.S. officials “disagree and condemn the continued supply
of Russian weapons to the regime.” Earlier in the day, Russian
Deputy Foreign Minister Sergei Ryabkov declared that, “We see
that many of our partners are worried about this, but we have no
reasons to reconsider our position.”  In a Paris press appearance on May 27, Kerry and Lavrov
laid out the work needed to get the talks started. They haven’t
reached agreement on fundamentals such as when talks should be
held, who should attend them, or what issues should take
priority.  “It is our hope that we will come out of here with greater
clarity about some of the issues that need to be worked on in
the days ahead,” Kerry said.  Lavrov hinted at a disagreement between the two over  Iran ’s
attendance, saying the circle of observer countries “could be
expanded to involve all key outside players who have influence
on the situation on the ground.”  Iranian Involvement  The U.S. objects to Iran’s involvement because it provides
Assad with weapons and military advisers and supports the
Lebanese group Hezbollah, which the U.S. and  Israel  consider a
terrorist group. State Department officials estimate that there
are thousands of Hezbollah fighters in Syria helping government
troops and militias allied with Assad..  Speaking on CNN, Russia’s ambassador to the  United Nations ,
Vitaly Churkin, said the missiles, part of a contract with Syria
that predates the conflict, are “specifically designed not to
be a part of any kind of a domestic confrontation or domestic
civil war.”  “We are against foreign military intervention in Syria, so
to the extent those systems, if deployed in Syria, can deter
foreign military intervention, I think it will help focus minds
on a political settlement,” Churkin said.  He stressed that “much needs to be done in order for” the
peace talks to happen.  Russia’s Goals  Will Pomeranz, acting director of the Kennan Institute on
Russia at the Wilson Center, a Washington policy group, said the
Russians “really enjoy the fact that they are at the center of
major international negotiations.”  “They’re interested in trying to resolve the problem, but
to the benefit of their long-time ally, and to demonstrate that
in the process of seeking a solution, they’re not abandoning a
long-time ally,” Pomeranz said.  Fred Hof, a former State Department special adviser on the
transition in Syria, said in an e-mail that  Russia  seems intent
on using the political process to its advantage and Assad’s.  Russia’s decision to send the S-300 missiles, with their
200-300 kilometer (186-mile) range “speaks volumes” about
Moscow’s motivation for agreeing to the Geneva talks, said Hof,
now a senior fellow at the Atlantic Council, a Washington policy
group.  Backing Assad  “Clearly it hopes to use the prospect of a diplomatic
process to freeze the West while it and its allies try to
facilitate a regime military victory,” Hof said.  At the same time, the Europeans have no plans to send arms
to Syrian rebels for a few months, according to a European
diplomat familiar with the process who wasn’t authorized to
speak publicly. The announcement on lifting the embargo, the
diplomat said, was meant to raise pressure on Assad and Russia
ahead of the Geneva talks by signaling united European intent to
ensure that the rebels aren’t defeated and make Assad realize
that he must come to the table.  George Lopez , a former United Nations adviser who now
teaches at the University of  Notre Dame , near  South Bend ,
 Indiana , said that after a series of regime victories in the
last month, Assad doesn’t seem likely to be willing to
negotiate, particularly once Russian missiles neutralize any
airborne threat from the West or Israel.  “Russians might impose it on him, but Assad’s not going to
go to the table, especially after he’s turned the tide in some
places,” Lopez said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  