-- Russia to Sell Stakes in Four Shippers Starting From $40M
-- B y   A n a t o l y   T e m k i n
-- 2013-05-28T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/russia-to-sell-stakes-in-four-shippers-starting-from-40m.html
OAO Russian Auction House, partly
owned by state-owned  OAO Sberbank (SBER) , the nation’s biggest lender,
is seeking to raise 2.35 billion rubles ($74 million) by selling
stakes in six companies.  The St. Petersburg-based auction organizer plans to offer a
25.5 percent state holding in OAO  Murmansk Shipping (MUSH)  with a
starting price of 700 million rubles, according to a
presentation obtained by Bloomberg. Minority shares in its two
subsidiaries, OAO  Northern Shipping (SEMP)  and OAO Northern River
Shipping, will start at 80 million rubles, while a stake in OAO
Amurskoye Shipping will begin at 270 million rubles. Stakes in
OAO  Ulyanovsk Automobile Plant (UAZA*)  and OAO  Anapa Airport (ANAP)  will also
be offered for sale, according to the presentation.  Murmansk Shipping and its subsidiaries control about 80
percent of all cargo transfers on the  North Sea ,  Russia ’s main
water route to supply the northern part of the country and to
export the region’s raw materials, according to the Auction
House presentation.  The government may miss out on 360 billion rubles of
revenue from state-asset sales this year from the total 427
billion rubles planned in the budget, Finance Minister Anton Siluanov said to reporters in Moscow on May 22.  The sales organizer agreed with the Russian State Property
Committee on Feb. 18 to sell stakes in 36 companies, Auction
House Director Andrei Stepanenko said in an interview on Feb.
22. The company plans to raise at least 5 billion rubles in
asset sales this year, he said.  The starting price for  Ulyanovsk Automobile Plant (UAZA)  is 1
billion rubles. OAO Sollers controls the Russian producer of
off-road vehicles and a supplier to the army and police.  The company’s board hasn’t considered participating in the
sale because it hasn’t seen an official announcement, Deputy
Chief Executive Officer Zoya Kaika said by phone today.  Russian Auction House also plans to sell a minority stake
in Anapa Airport, which services the southern Black Sea resort
and is controlled by Basel Aero, a unit of billionaire Oleg Deripaska’s holding company. The starting price is 99.2 million
rubles. Basel’s press-service declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anatoly Temkin in  St. Petersburg  at 
 atemkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  