-- S. Korea Suspends Operations at Reactors Over Faked Documents
-- B y   S h i n h y e   K a n g   a n d   S u n g w o o   P a r k
-- 2013-05-28T09:18:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/s-korea-suspends-operations-at-reactors-over-faked-documents.html
South Korea  plans to halt two nuclear 
reactors and delay the start of operations at another after 
discovering that the facilities were using components whose 
safety certificates were faked.  The Shin-Kori No. 2 and Shin-Wolsong No. 1 reactors will be 
shut for about four months to replace control cables supplied 
under fake quality warranties, the Energy Ministry said today in 
a statement. The government also ordered the replacement of 
cables at the Shin-Kori No. 1 reactor, which is shut for regular 
maintenance, and at the new Shin-Wolsong No. 2 plant, which is 
in review before commencing operations.  South Korea, which depends on nuclear energy for more than
30 percent of its electricity, may face “unprecedented” power
shortages during the summer because of the halts, Vice Minister 
for Energy Han Jin Hyun told reporters. Today’s decision will 
mean 10 of South Korea’s 23 reactors are offline, according to 
 Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co. , which operates the plants.  “Other fuel sources, mostly gas, will have to be used to
make up for lost supply,” Lee Chang Mok, a utilities analyst at
Woori Investment & Securities Co., said by phone. “Efforts to 
conserve electricity should follow, and a drive to rein in 
demand could provide the rationale for power tariff increases.”  South Korea’s nuclear regulator began its investigation in
April following information from a whistle-blower, according to
the ministry's statement. An earlier probe into faked 
certificates led to the suspension of two reactors in November. 
Korea Hydro Chief Executive Officer Kim Kyun Seop said at the 
time he would resign once the certificates “mess” was fixed.  Korea Electric Power Corp. (015760) , parent of Korea Hydro &
Nuclear, dropped 3.2 percent to 28,650 won today, its lowest
close since Dec. 17. The benchmark Kospi index rose 0.3 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shinhye Kang in Seoul at 
 skang24@bloomberg.net ;
Sungwoo Park in Seoul at 
 spark47@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  