-- Saudi Arabia’s Naimi Says Current Situation Best for Oil
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e   a n d   L a n a n h   N g u y e n
-- 2013-05-28T17:11:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/saudi-arabia-s-naimi-says-current-situation-best-for-oil.html
Saudi Arabia , the world’s largest
crude exporter, is content with current conditions in the oil
market, the kingdom’s petroleum minister said three days before
OPEC members meet to assess the group’s output policy.  “This is the best environment for the market,”  Ali al-Naimi  told reporters today in Vienna when asked about the
balance of supply and demand. “Demand is great,” al-Naimi said
as he arrived at his hotel.  The 12-member Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
will review its collective production target on May 31 at the
group’s headquarters in the Austrian capital. OPEC, which
supplies about 40 percent of the world’s oil, kept its official
output ceiling unchanged at 30 million barrels a day the last
time it met, in December.  Global demand is forecast to rise 800,000 barrels a day to
89.7 million barrels a day this year, requiring 29.8 million of
supply from OPEC, the organization said in its monthly oil
market report on May 10. It warned that a stalling economic
recovery in the euro area and a slowdown in  Russia  and parts of
 Asia  may temper consumption.  The  OPEC basket  price for crude, representing members’
export grades, fell below $100 a barrel on April 15, for the
first time since July 2012. It has traded either side of that
level in recent weeks and was last at $99.56 yesterday. North
Sea Brent crude, used to price more than half of the world’s
oil, dropped 6 percent this year to trade today at about $104.50
a barrel on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in  London .  April Increase  The  United Arab Emirates  sees current crude prices as
“suitable and fair” and not damaging to consumers, Suhail Mohammed Al Mazrouei, the nation’s energy minister, told the
U.A.E.’s official WAM news agency yesterday.  OPEC pumped 30.7 million barrels a day of crude in April,
up 0.7 percent from 30.49 million in March, according to a
report from the Paris-based  International Energy Agency 
published May 14. Data compiled by Bloomberg show that Saudi
Arabia, the U.A.E. and other OPEC members produced 30.9 million
barrels a day in April, the highest output since November.  “Given the present price level as well as the outlook for
crude market fundamentals for the second half, we expect
Friday’s OPEC meeting to be rather uneventful, with the producer
group likely to keep its current output target whilst continuing
to verbally support the $100 level,”  David Wech , an analyst at
JBC Energy GmbH in Vienna, said today in an e-mailed note.  OPEC is likely to keep its collective production target
unchanged this week, according to two delegates from different
OPEC nations, who asked not to be identified because the
decision isn’t final yet.  The group’s collective production target is “working
beautifully,” and there is no need to publicize individual
national limits on May 31, Abdalla El-Badri, OPEC’s secretary
general, said on April 4.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net ;
Lananh Nguyen in London at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  