-- Sberbank Seen Posting Lower Profit as Pressure Mounts on Rates
-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 2013-05-28T13:55:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/sberbank-seen-posting-lower-profit-as-pressure-mounts-on-rates.html
OAO Sberbank,  Russia ’s largest bank,
may report a decline in first-quarter profit as slowing economic
growth curbs demand for credit and drives up loan provisions.  Net income probably fell 8 percent to 84.8 billion rubles
($2.7 billion) from 92.2 billion rubles a year earlier, based on
the average estimate of eight analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.
Net interest margin, a gauge of the profitability of lending,
may have shrunk by as much as 6 percent, BCS Financial Group
said.  “Sberbank is at risk of underperforming against its own
guidance and we could see a pronounced drag in earnings,
especially in the next two quarters,” Ivan Kachkovski, a
banking analyst at Aton Capital in Moscow, said by phone. “We
see a trend for falling net interest margins, slower growth and
the rising cost of risk.”  Andrey Kostin, chief executive officer of VTB Group,
appealed to policy makers to cut  interest rates  to help
encourage lending amid Russia’s slowest expansion since a 2009
contraction. Lowering the refinancing rate to between 5 percent
and 6 percent from 8.25 percent would allow banks to reduce loan
costs and make “a big difference for the industry,” Kostin,
who heads Russia’s second-largest lender, said in a May 22
interview. Both VTB and Sberbank are majority-owned by the
Russian state.  Sberbank shares rose 1.4 percent to 104.40 rubles in Moscow
trading. The stock has advanced 12 percent this year. Russia
raised about $5 billion in September selling Sberbank shares at
93 rubles apiece.  Slower Growth  Sberbank will report first-quarter results tomorrow under
International Financial Reporting Standards, after already
publishing earnings under Russian accounting rules for the first
four months of the year.  Russia’s economy grew 1.6 percent in the first three months
of 2013 from a year earlier, decelerating for a fifth
consecutive quarter as corporate investment cooled. The central
bank, which is resisting calls for monetary easing, kept its
main interest rates unchanged in May for an eighth month after
Russia became the biggest emerging economy to raise borrowing
costs in 2012 with an increase in September.  Sberbank,  Europe ’s third-largest bank by market
capitalization, is cutting rates on some of its deposit accounts
by May 31, Kommersant reported on May 22, citing an interview
with director Dmitry Oguryaev.  Loan Provisions  Lending growth at Moscow-based Sberbank started slowing
near the end of the first quarter, according to UBS AG analyst
Dmitry Vinogradov. “Deposit rate increases in the second half
of 2012 and corporate rate cuts in the first quarter are likely
to pressurize margins,” he said in a report e-mailed today.  The bank  said  on May 14 its loans to corporate clients in
the first four months, under Russian Accounting Standards,
declined 0.1 percent. Lending to individuals rose 6 percent.  The lender set aside 37.4 billion rubles in provisions for
potential bad loans during the four months, compared with 6.7
billion rubles in the same period last year.  Sberbank’s Tier 1 capital ratio, a measure of financial
strength, declined to 10.2 percent from 11.6 percent at the
start of the year.  The company agreed in June to acquire Istanbul-based
 Denizbank AS (DENIZ)  for $3.5 billion, after agreeing in February of
last year to buy most of Vienna-based  Oesterreichische
Volksbanken AG (VBPS) ’s eastern European business for 505 million euros
($662 million). Sberbank consolidated Denizbank,  Turkey ’s ninth-largest lender by assets, in its accounts in September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  