-- Scotiabank Profit Increases 9.6% as ING Direct Adds
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2013-05-28T20:15:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/scotiabank-profit-increases-9-6-as-ing-direct-adds.html
Bank of Nova Scotia ,  Canada ’s third-biggest lender by assets, said second-quarter profit rose 9.6
percent on contributions from its takeover of  ING Groep NV (INGA) ’s
business in the country. Results missed analysts’ estimates.  Net income for the period ended April 30 climbed to C$1.6
billion ($1.55 billion), or C$1.23 a share, from C$1.46 billion,
or C$1.15, a year earlier, the Toronto-based lender said today
in a statement. Revenue advanced 11 percent to C$5.22 billion.  Earnings from Canadian banking rose 19 percent, aided by
Scotiabank’s C$3.1 billion purchase of ING Direct Canada in
November, which added about 1.8 million customers using products
such as high-interest  savings accounts , checking accounts and
mortgages.  “Bank of  Nova Scotia ’s weak spot in the past was their
perceived absence of Canadian retail deposits, and with ING they
addressed that in one stroke,” Gavin Graham, chief strategy
officer at Integris Pension Management Corp., said in a
telephone interview from Toronto.  Scotiabank said it earned C$1.24 a share excluding some
items, missing the C$1.26 average  estimate  of 15 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. Provisions for credit losses were higher
than some analysts estimated, as the bank set aside C$343
million for bad loans, 30 percent more than a year earlier.  Bears, Bulls  “There are issues for both bears and bulls to feast on,”
 John Aiken , an analyst with Barclays Plc, said in a note that
cited rising provisions as one negative. “This is more than
offset by the growth in lending, margins and earnings within its
international banking operations, as well as the contribution
that the ING acquisition is having.”  Scotiabank  was unchanged  at C$59.61 at 4 p.m. in Toronto.
The shares have climbed 3.7 percent this year, the third-best
performer on the eight-company Standard & Poor’s/TSX Commercial
Banks Index.  Domestic consumer-banking profit rose to C$547 million from
C$461 million a year earlier, lifted by the ING Direct takeover.  “Canadian banking had a very good second quarter,” Chief
Executive Officer  Richard Waugh , 65, said in the statement.
“There was strong asset growth across most businesses, as well
as a solid contribution from ING.”  International Banking  Profit at Scotiabank’s international banking unit advanced
5.1 percent to C$471 million and its wealth-management and
insurance unit climbed 12 percent to C$335 million. The lender’s
global banking and markets investment-banking unit’s earnings
fell 6.7 percent to C$361 million as trading revenue declined
and expenses rose.  “We expect growth in the  United States  to favorably impact
our Americas footprint,” Waugh said in an investor conference
call. “Expanded U.S. trade with Canada and  Mexico , in
particular, will benefit our customers and business
conditions.”  The bank is “well positioned and confident” it will meet
or exceed financial targets for the year, Waugh said.  Scotiabank is Canada’s third lender to report second-quarter results. Last week,  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  missed
analysts’ estimates by a penny after posting profit that climbed
1.8 percent to C$1.72 billion. Montreal-based  National Bank of
Canada  beat estimates as net income fell 22 percent to C$434
million.  Bank of Montreal (BMO) , the fourth-largest lender, reports
 results  tomorrow, followed by Royal Bank of Canada, the biggest
bank, and Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, the No. 5 lender,
on May 30.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net ;
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  