-- Senate Democrats Plan June 10 Start on Immigration Bill
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2013-05-28T20:12:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/senate-democrats-plan-july-10-start-on-immigration-bill.html
The Senate plans to start work during
the week of June 10 on legislation to revise U.S.  immigration 
law and create a path to citizenship for undocumented
immigrants, a spokesman for Majority Leader  Harry Reid  said.  Spokesman Adam Jentleson said today that Democrats first
want to complete work on legislation reauthorizing farm programs
when the Senate returns next week from a one-week break. He said
the chamber will then turn to the immigration measure, which the
Judiciary Committee approved 13-5 on May 21.  The Senate measure, S.744, seeks to balance opening the
door to U.S. citizenship for 11 million undocumented immigrants,
sought by Democrats, with enough border-security improvements to
satisfy Republicans. The measure includes an agreement reached
last week between Democrats and Republican Senator  Orrin Hatch 
of  Utah  on visas for high-skilled foreign workers.  “We would like to finish the farm bill next week so we can
move on to immigration the week of the 10th,” Jentleson said in
an e-mail. He said Reid, a Nevada Democrat, would “strongly
prefer not to wait any longer” to begin working on the
immigration bill.  Senate Democrats  want to pass the immigration legislation
before July 4.  Hispanic Voters  The last congressional bid to pass comprehensive
immigration legislation stalled in 2007. Republicans are trying
to reconnect with Hispanics after President  Barack Obama  won 71
percent of the constituency’s votes in his re-election in
November.  Jentleson said there was “a strong possibility” that
during work on the farm bill next week, the first amendment
senators may consider would be a proposal to prevent a doubling
of student loan interest rates on July 1.  Unless Congress acts, student loan interest rates will rise
to 6.8 percent. Senate Democrats want to extend the current 3.4
percent rate for two years.  The Republican-controlled House on May 23 passed a bill
that would peg new student-loan  interest rates  to yields on the
10-year Treasury note, meaning that the rates would fluctuate.
It would also set maximum caps on those variable rates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  