-- Serial Killer Nurse, Spiked IV Terrorize Hospitals: Books
-- B y   J e f f r e y   B u r k e
-- 2013-05-28T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/serial-killer-nurse-spiked-iv-terrorize-hospitals-books.html
Charlie Cullen was a good nurse for
the 16 years he worked at various New Jersey and Pennsylvania
hospitals -- if you overlook the countless patients he murdered.  His managers largely overlooked them, and as Charles
Graeber recounts in “ The Good Nurse ,” no final toll is
possible. The estimates are awful to contemplate.  Almost 10 years ago, Cullen confessed to “killing perhaps
40 people,” Graeber writes. The nurse terminated 16 patients in
just the final six months of his working life. Yet experts
believe the total is “likely closer to four hundred.” Cullen’s
cooperation spared him the death penalty, and he’s serving life
without parole in New Jersey state prison in Trenton.  Graeber , who has written for Bloomberg Businessweek, the
New Yorker and others, invested six years of research into
Cullen’s medical madness. From interviews with the killer and
those around him, the author details how he did it and how he
got away with it for so long.  Cullen did come under managers’ suspicion and was
questioned by police, but he passed the human and polygraph
tests. He was abetted by the hospitals’ fear of legal fallout
and the blow to the bottom line (they were all sued in the end).  At one institution, the same person who “threatened to
terminate Cullen for his multiple medication and patient-care
issues” recommended him for employment at his next hospital
job, and a reference form described him as “an excellent
nurse” who “gave good care.”  Fatal Medications  Cullen’s modus operandi varied. He spiked IV bags with
hypodermics full of unprescribed and usually fatal medications.
He injected patients directly with the wrong stuff or withheld
prescribed doses. He foiled security measures meant to restrict
nurses’ access to medication.  He played a kind of lottery, in which he dosed IV bags
without knowing which patient would get them, then monitored
those on his watch. He also made cocktails of drugs to observe
the effects leading to death.  His victims tended to be in ICU or cardiac care, so when
they “coded,” when their breathing or heart stopped, it wasn’t
always surprising. A sad, shy man with “a dead look in his
eyes” to some, or an “emotional disconnect,” Cullen was
clever and grimly efficient.  After spending more than half the book in his drearily
malevolent company, I was relieved when the narrative shifted to
a taut police procedural with a genuine heroine as the police
closed in on Cullen.  Confidential Informant  Two former  Newark , New Jersey, detectives transplanted to
Somerset, the state’s richest county, were drawn into the case
in October 2003 by a report of “unexplained incidents” at
Somerset Medical Center, the area’s biggest employer.  Frustrated in their inquiries by the center’s lawyers and
staff, and outmaneuvered by Cullen when they tried to pressure
him, the cops finally scored a breakthrough when a nurse
friendly with Cullen agreed to become their confidential
informant. The killer confessed in December that year.  Graeber’s writing becomes markedly brighter as the book
shifts from case history to cop thriller. It’s here, though,
that I noticed more the unfortunate effects of converting
interview material into a character’s thoughts, which Graeber
freely does throughout the book.  An extreme instance: The informant, who wore a wire for a
pivotal conversation with the killer, afterward confronted “a
confusion of unprocessed emotions.” One is pride in her
bravery, until “she realized (yuck!) she was stoking her ego
because of her proximity to murder and infamy.” That “yuck”
is yuck itself.  Seeking Reasons  Graeber wisely doesn’t pontificate on why Cullen murdered
so many. No simple answer is possible. Cullen himself has
suggested that at times he was relieving the pain of others.  The killer’s mother died in a car accident when he was in
high school but her body had disappeared by the time he reached
the hospital. After that he always associated hospitals with
deceit, according to Graeber.  There’s also a suggestion that Cullen was sexually abused
as a child. Add it to a list that includes depression, suicide,
bullying, botched romance and broken marriage to form a man
feeling years of victimization and armed with the limitless
power of a competent caretaker.  “The Good Nurse: A True Story of Medicine, Madness and
Murder” is published by Twelve (307 pages, $26.99). To buy this
book in North America, click  here .  (Jeffrey Burke is an editor with Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on theater and  Farah
Nayeri  on Cannes.  To contact the writer on the story:
Jeffrey Burke in New York at 
 jburke21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for the story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 