-- Sheppard Mullin, BakerHostetler, Cornell: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-05-28T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/sheppard-mullin-bakerhostetler-cornell-business-of-law.html
Scott J. Palmer joined Sheppard,
Mullin, Richter & Hampton LLP as a partner in the firm’s
intellectual property practice group in Beijing. Palmer joins
from Baker & McKenzie LLP in Beijing, where he led the firm’s
Beijing IP practice.  Palmer manages IP portfolios for multinational companies,
and advises complex IP litigation in  China , the firm said in a
statement. He also handles trademark/copyright registration and
enforcement strategy, as well as anti-counterfeiting and anti-piracy activities in the PRC.  “Scott’s broad-based IP and brand protection practice
dovetails well with the firm’s existing expertise and expands
our IP capabilities in China. He is a significant addition to
our Beijing office and to our IP practice, as part of our
strategic goal of adding attorneys with thriving practices who
are also proven leaders and builders,” Guy N. Halgren, chairman
of Sheppard Mullin, said in a statement.  Sheppard Mullin’s intellectual property practice group
includes 90 attorneys firm-wide. The firm has 20 attorneys based
in its Beijing and Shanghai offices.  Sheppard Mullin has 630 attorneys at 16 offices in the
U.S.,  Europe  and  Asia .  BakerHostetler Adds Litigation Partner in Costa Mesa, California  J. David Bournazian joined Baker & Hostetler
LLP’s litigation group as a partner in its  Costa Mesa ,
California, office. He joins from Kutak Rock LLP.  Bournazian focuses his practice in business litigation,
with an emphasis on employment, health-care and real estate law.
He also has experience in complex business negotiations, the
firm said in a statement.  Bournazian previously worked in the White House, overseeing
NASA and Drug Enforcement Administration budgets and obtaining
Congressional approval for presidential programs, the firm said.
He was also previously general counsel for architects  Frank Gehry  and Gehry Partners LLP.  “David is an outstanding addition to our national
litigation group,” W. Ray Whitman, chairman of BakerHostetler’s
litigation group, said in a statement. “His skills as a trial
lawyer and broad experience in employment, healthcare and real
estate enhance our deep bench of lawyers who are helping clients
grow and protect their businesses in a complex business and
regulatory environment.”  BakerHostetler has more than 800 attorneys at 11 U.S.
offices.  News  Holder Starved of U.S. Justice Deputies as Obama Nominees Stall  A combination of executive and congressional inaction has
left U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder without permanent
appointees in at least six top positions inside the  Justice
Department , even as he faces increased criticism from U.S.
lawmakers.  Holder, a cabinet holdover from President  Barack Obama ’s
first term, lacks Senate-confirmed heads atop three of the
agency’s eight divisions. The confirmed leaders of two others
are in the process of departing. His legislative and legal
policy offices also are without Senate-confirmed officeholders.  The leadership vacuum highlights a problem that has plagued
federal agencies during the Obama administration, as a lengthy
vetting process and Republican roadblocks leave key positions
unfilled, according to current and former congressional and
Justice Department officials.  “It’s a toxic combination of the unwillingness of people
to go through the process, the extra layer of scrutiny potential
nominees are facing on  Capitol Hill  and in the White House, and
the willingness of Republicans to block just about any
nominee,” said  Jim Manley , a former senior aide to Senate
Majority Leader  Harry Reid . “I don’t know whether the Lord
Himself could get confirmed at this point.”  Holder, 62, also will soon be without Federal Bureau of
Investigation Director  Robert Mueller , who departs in September
after 12 years on the job. The administration may name his
successor, who must also face Senate scrutiny, in the coming
weeks, according to two people familiar with the decision who
asked for anonymity because they weren’t authorized to discuss
personnel deliberations.  For more, click here.  Cornell Law School Looking for New Dean to Replace Schwab  Cornell’s law school is looking for a new dean to replace
Stewart J. Schwab, who will leave in June 2014, the school said
in a statement.  Schwab, who was appointed dean in 2004, is extending his
second term, which ends in December, while the school undertakes
a nationwide search to fill the position.  During his leadership, the school has grown its faculty and
expanded its business law curriculum with new deals and
transactional law classes, the school said. It has also begun
new programs such as the Clarke Business Law Institute, the
Cornell e-Rulemaking Initiative and the Avon Global Center for
Women and Justice. The school has created new clinical studies
programs in securities law, labor law, LGBT rights and juvenile
justice, under his leadership.  “Cornell Law has a collegial faculty that sees the best in
each other; students who are talented, hardworking and enjoy
learning the law; and loyal alumni who lead lives of distinction
and are dedicated to improving the school,” Schwab said in a
statement.  Senior Vice Provost John Siliciano, a member of the Law
School faculty who has led most of the university’s dean-level
searches in recent years, will head the search committee for the
new dean.  Schwab, who has been a faculty member of the Law School
since 1983, will return to teaching after a sabbatical in 2014-15.  Firm News  DLA Piper Hires Ex-Spain Prime Minister Aznar as Adviser  DLA Piper LLP hired former Spanish Prime Minister Jose Maria Aznar as a special adviser to the firm’s global board.
He’ll advise the firm and clients on international regulatory
and government affairs issues, with a special focus on South and
Latin America, the firm said in an e-mail.  Tony Angel and  Lee Miller  are co-chairmen of the firm’s
global board. Frank Burch and Senator  George Mitchell  are
chairmen emeritus.  The firm has offices in Caracas, Mexico City, São Paulo.
Chicago partner Stuart M. Berkson chairs DLA Piper’s global
Latin America practice.  DLA Piper has 4,200 lawyers in offices throughout Asia
Pacific, Europe, the  Middle East  and the Americas.  Lehman Brokerage Trustee Seeks Fees, Expenses of $37.5 Million  The law firm of the trustee liquidating the Lehman Brothers
Inc. brokerage asked a judge to approve fees and expenses of
$37.5 million for the period from July 1 through February 28.  A bankruptcy judge previously approved $212.7 million in
fees and expenses for James Giddens and the law firm of Hughes
Hubbard & Reed LLP for the four-and-a-half years since September
2008, according to a federal court filing in  Manhattan 
yesterday. Giddens hasn’t yet told brokerage customers when they
will be paid.  Litigation  Ex-SAC Manager Martoma to Get Documents From SEC, Judge Says  Mathew Martoma, the former SAC Capital Advisors LP
portfolio manager charged in what prosecutors say is the biggest
insider-trading scheme in history, will get documents from the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission in its related civil
case, a judge ruled.  U.S. District Judge  Victor Marrero  agreed May 24 to
Martoma’s request to get evidence from the SEC while the
criminal case goes forward. Marrero denied, for now, Martoma’s
request to take pretrial testimony from witnesses.  Martoma’s new lawyer,  Richard Strassberg , a partner at
Goodwin Proctor LLP, making his first court appearance for his
client May 24, complained to Marrero that the SEC’s attempts to
delay the case were unfair.  “The SEC chose to file this case, it had a press
conference where it attacked Mr. Martoma and it attacked his
actions, but now they come to court and say ‘Wait,’” Strassberg
told the judge. “It’s really an unfair position to be taking.”  SEC lawyer Charles Riely said the agency has evidence from
CR Intrinsic, the unit of  Stamford , Connecticut-based SAC that
employed Martoma, drugmaker  Elan Corp. (ELN) , whose stock Martoma is
charged with trading in illegally, and other third parties
including telephone companies. In paper form, the evidence would
more than fill a conference room, Riely said.  “We did choose to bring this case and it’s our statutory
duty to enforce securities laws,” he told Marrero.  Martoma wasn’t present at the hearing. His wife, Rosemary
Martoma, watched from the front row of the public gallery.  U.S. District Judge Paul Gardephe, who’s overseeing the
criminal case, has scheduled a court conference June 5 in which
he may set a trial date.  The civil case is SEC v. Martoma, 12-cv-08466; and the
criminal case is U.S. v. Martoma, 12-00973, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in  Brooklyn , New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 