-- SHFE Plans to Expand Warehouse Network in Competition With LME
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-05-28T08:51:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/shfe-plans-to-expand-warehouse-network-in-competition-with-lme.html
The  Shanghai  Futures Exchange said it
will open its delivery warehouse network to overseas investors
while adding depots at home and abroad as competition with the
London Metal Exchange intensifies.  The bourse plans new warehouses for copper in the southern
province of Guangdong and for aluminum in the western
municipality of Chongqing, Chairman Yang Maijun said at the
exchange’s annual conference in Shanghai today. He didn’t say
where overseas the SHFE would locate storage facilities.  HK Exchanges & Clearing Ltd.’s acquisition of the London
bourse last year put the world’s biggest marketplace of
industrial metals on the SHFE’s doorstep, sparking speculation
it would pave the way for LME storehouses in China. The Chinese
 government  still doesn’t allow domestic warehouses to be used
for delivery for futures products traded on overseas exchanges.  “We have to adapt our exchange to meet the global needs of
industry and to be creative in realizing change,” Yang said in
a speech at the 10th  Shanghai Derivatives Market Forum . He
didn’t provide a time frame for his plans.  The SHFE has 15 warehouses for copper in Shanghai, Zhejiang
and Jiangsu provinces, and another 22 around the country for
aluminum. Shanghai will more than double its bonded warehouse
space this year, according to Shanghai Free Trade Zones United
Development Co.  The LME has a network of more than 700 warehouses around
the world.  The Shanghai exchange will push forward will previously
announced plans to open existing products to overseas investors,
starting with nonferrous metals and natural rubber, and then to
gold and silver, Yang said.  Bonded Zones  The bourse also plans to give overseas institutions access
to delivery to warehouses inside  China , including in bonded
zones, he said. All these measures would be subject to approval
from regulators.  The SHFE traded 365 million lots in 2012, 19 percent higher
than a year earlier. Trading volume for copper futures rose 17
percent to 57.28 million lots, or 286 million tons, bourse data
showed. This compared with 962 million tons of copper for LME’s
futures contracts.  The Shanghai bourse also plans to revise contract details
for lead and fuel oil futures, and may begin after-hours trading
for gold and silver futures within one or two months.  The exchange is also examining potential contracts for 20
more products, including bitumen, hot-rolled coil and liquefied
petroleum gas futures, Yang said.  The SHFE is also researching commodity indexes and options,
he said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Sun in Shanghai at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brett Miller at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  