-- SingTel Said to Start Optus Satellite Sale Seeking A$2 Billion
-- B y   J o y c e   K o h ,   B r e t t   F o l e y   a n d   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2013-05-28T07:21:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/singtel-said-to-start-optus-satellite-sale-seeking-a-2-billion.html
Singapore Telecommunications Ltd. (ST) ,
 Southeast Asia ’s biggest phone company, started the sale of its
Australian satellite unit and is seeking more than A$2 billion
($1.9 billion), three people with knowledge of the matter said.  SingTel approached potential buyers with information on the
Optus Satellite unit today, two of the people said, asking not
to be identified as the information is private. Bain Capital
LLC, Carlyle Group LP and  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  are among private
equity firms evaluating possible bids for Optus Satellite, three
people familiar with the deliberations said.  With five spacecraft in orbit, Optus Satellite provides
television, radio, phone, Internet data and military signals to
 Australia ,  New Zealand , and parts of the Antarctic, according to
the  website  of its parent company, Optus. SingTel, as the
Singapore-based group is known, acquired the satellite unit as
part of its $9.69 billion takeover of Optus, Australia’s second-largest phone company, in 2001.  SingTel is selling the satellite division as it chases new
sources of growth amid  slowing sales  in Australia and  Singapore .
Divesting the division, which had revenue of A$319 million in
the year ended March 2012, would help finance the S$2 billion
($1.6 billion) of acquisitions that SingTel is planning. The
company hasn’t reported separate earnings figures for Optus
Satellite since the 2001 takeover.  Typical operating margins at satellite telecommunications
companies are 80 percent of sales, and the carriers are
typically valued at six times to eight times earnings,  Sachin Gupta , an analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc. in Singapore, said in
March. That would put a price tag of as much as A$2.04 billion
on the Optus business based on its sales, he estimated.  Debt Package  “We are conducting a strategic review of our Optus
Satelitte business and will make an appropriate announcement  in
the event of a material development arising from the review,”
said Michele Batchelor, a spokeswoman for SingTel. Spokesmen for
Bain, Carlyle and Blackstone declined to comment.  Credit Suisse Group AG and Morgan Stanley, hired by SingTel
in March to study options for Optus Satellite, are offering
prospective buyers a debt package that may help attract bids,
people with knowledge of the matter said this month. The banks
may lend more than six times Optus Satellite’s earnings before
interest, tax, depreciation and amortization, according to these
people.  Optus Satellite broadcasts signals to more than two million
Australian households and companies and will launch a sixth
satellite this year, according to SingTel. Its customers include
state-owned Australian Broadcasting Corp., the Foxtel joint
venture between Telstra Corp. and  News Corp ., and Australia’s
Department of Defence.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brett Foley in Melbourne at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net ;
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net ;
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  