-- South Africa May Miss Growth Targets: Rating Companies
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 2013-05-28T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/slower-south-africa-growth-may-mean-bigger-budget-gap-s-p-says.html
South Africa  may miss its economic
growth target this year, curbing  tax revenue  and leading to
bigger-than-planned budget deficits, according to Standard &
Poor’s and Fitch Ratings.  Data yesterday showed the economy expanded an annualized
0.9 percent in the first quarter, the slowest pace since a 2009
recession. While there is “no imminent threat” to South
Africa’s credit rating, Fitch may lower its growth forecasts
this year,  Carmen Altenkirch , a sovereign analyst, said in an
interview in Marrakech,  Morocco . S&P credit analyst Christian Esters said the data increases “downside risks” to its
estimates.  S&P and Moody’s Investors Service downgraded South Africa’s
debt by one level last year and kept the outlook at negative.
Fitch lowered the nation’s rating to BBB, the second-lowest
investment grade, in January.  “My biggest concern with South Africa is a perpetual
underperformance of GDP and the first quarter figures speak to
this generally weaker-than-expected trend,” Altenkirch said
yesterday. “If growth comes out weaker than expected for 2013
the fiscal numbers will look just that slightly worse.”  In the budget published on Feb 27, the National Treasury
forecast  Africa ’s largest economy would expand 2.7 percent this
year and 3.5 percent in 2014. It projected the budget gap to
narrow to 4.6 percent in the year through March 2014, from 5.1
percent in the previous year, and to 3.9 percent in fiscal 2015.  Mining Unrest  Those projections are under threat from mining strikes and
a contraction in  manufacturing . Growth slowed to an annualized
0.9 percent in the first quarter from 2.1 percent in the
previous three months, Statistics South Africa said in a report
yesterday. The median estimate in a  Bloomberg survey  of
economists was 1.6 percent.  “There is a likelihood GDP growth will be below the
assumption that was underlying the budget for 2013, 2014, which
in turn means that revenue will likely be somewhat lower and the
deficit might be higher,” Esters said in an interview in
Marrakech yesterday. “The downside risk has increased for GDP
growth to be lower than our forecast.”  S&P will monitor labor disputes in the  mining industry  in
the next few months, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  