-- South Africa’s GDP Grows at Slowest Pace Since Recession
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d   a n d   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2013-05-28T10:58:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/south-africa-s-economic-growth-slows-in-first-quarter.html
South Africa ’s economy, the largest
on the continent, grew at the slowest pace since a 2009
recession in the first quarter as  manufacturing (SFPMNSAY)  output slumped.  Gross domestic product  growth slowed to an annualized 0.9
percent from 2.1 percent in the fourth quarter, Statistics South
Africa said in a report released in Johannesburg today. The
median  estimate  of 15 economists surveyed by Bloomberg was 1.6
percent.  “This points to a very weak 2013,” Elna Moolman, an
economist at Macquarie Group Ltd. in Johannesburg, said in a
phone interview. “There are two risks to the economy coming up:
labor unrest and electricity” outages.  The economy has come under strain after a series of mining
strikes last year caused more than 10 billion rand ($1.04
billion) in lost output and shaved about 0.5 percentage point
off the growth rate, according to the National Treasury. While
the unrest has eased this year, it may pick up as wage
negotiations in the  mining industry  get under way.  The rand weakened to its lowest since March 2009 against
the dollar following the release of the data, falling as much as
1.4 percent to 9.7465. The currency traded 1.2 percent lower at
9.7261 per dollar at 12:25 p.m. in Johannesburg trading.  Forward-rate agreements starting next February, used to
speculate on  interest rates , fell as much as 2 basis points, or
0.02 percentage point, today to 4.98 percent.  Maintenance Shutdowns  Manufacturing, which accounts for more than 15 percent of
the economy, contracted an annualized 7.9 percent in the first
quarter after expanding 5 percent in the previous three months.
Agriculture, forestry and fishing fell 4.9 percent in the
period, while mining and quarrying jumped an annualized 14.6
percent.  The loss in manufacturing output was due to maintenance and
fire-related stoppages, Gerhard Bouwer, an executive manager at
the statistics agency, told reporters in Johannesburg.  “There was a lot of loss to production,” Bouwer said.
“There were a lot of stoppages due to maintenance of plants. In
mines, there were stoppages on fires.”  A fire halted operations at Sibanye Gold Ltd.’s Beatrix
West operations on Feb. 19, resulting in the loss of 61
kilograms (134 pounds) of gold every month. A Feb. 9 blaze shut
 ArcelorMittal (MT)  South Africa Ltd.’s steelmaking operations for
about three months.  The  Reserve Bank  on May 23 cut its forecast for economic
growth this year to 2.4 percent from 2.7 percent and projected
economic expansion of 3.5 percent in 2014. The bank kept the
benchmark  repurchase rate  at 5 percent, where it has been since
July last year, concerned that a weaker rand and higher wages
will push inflation above its 3 percent to 6 percent target.  “The MPC is increasingly concerned about the deteriorating
outlook for the South African economy,” the bank’s Governor
Gill Marcus told reporters. “There are a number of critical
domestic issues that are contributing to the vulnerability of
the economy that need to be urgently addressed.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  