-- Djokovic, Stosur Win in Between French Open Rain Delays
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2013-05-28T22:32:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/stosur-dimitrov-win-in-between-french-open-rain-delays.html
Top seed Novak Djokovic overcame the
rain and a first-round challenge from David Goffin at the  French
Open , where showers forced the postponement of 14 matches.  Djokovic of  Serbia  beat Belgium’s Goffin 7-6 (7-5), 6-4,
7-5, on the main Court Philippe Chatrier in Paris. They finished
at 8:55 p.m. local time last night as darkness set in.  “It was a long day,” Djokovic said in his post-match news
conference. “Conditions were quite tricky. It was a difficult
day because we have been waiting for hours and hours. I think I
warmed up five or six times today.”  Play was halted for almost three hours at the start of day
three, and then for more than an hour during the afternoon as
rain fell and spectators sought shelter underneath the stadium.
Unlike Wimbledon or the Australian Open,  Roland Garros  doesn’t
have a court with a roof.  Djokovic, 26, has won every Grand Slam tournament except
the French Open. He came closest last year, when he was beaten
in the final by third-seeded  Rafael Nadal  of  Spain . There won’t
be a repeat of that title match, as the two are scheduled to
meet in the semifinals. Djokovic has beaten Nadal, a seven-time
champion, on clay once this season, ending the Spaniard’s run of
eight consecutive titles at the Monte Carlo Masters in April.  In the women’s draw, former U.S. Open champion Sam Stosur
of  Australia  dropped just two games yesterday against Kimiko Date-Krumm of Japan. Date-Krumm, 42, first played in Paris in
1989, when 57 players in the current women’s singles draw hadn’t
yet been born.  Tomic Troubles  Bernard Tomic’s off-court problems with his father got more
attention than his quitting a match with a leg injury against
Romania’s  Victor Hanescu  as he trailed 7-5, 7-6 (10-8), 2-1.  John Tomic, the coach and father of Australia’s No. 1-ranked player, was barred from the men’s tour on May 8 until
further notice as he faces a charge of assaulting his son’s
training partner. He was also banned from entering the grounds
of the French Open.  John Tomic had been charged with assault two days after
allegedly injuring Thomas Drouet with a head butt on May 4 in a
Madrid street. He has disputed the charge. Drouet, a Frenchman
whose nose was broken in the incident, has since been employed
as a hitting partner of Marion Bartoli.  Before the start of his press conference yesterday,  Bernard
Tomic  made a statement about his father, saying he “loved him a
lot,” and that he was “still my dad, still my coach.”
Although the press conference moderator said he wouldn’t answer
further questions about his father, the 20-year-old added an
additional person may join his coaching team in the run-up to
Wimbledon.  Match Points Saved  The long rain delays meant that the opening match in the
main stadium between Bartoli, the No. 13 seed from France, and
Olga Govortsova of Belarus finished at 6:22 p.m. Bartoli, a
former Wimbledon runner-up, saved two match points and won 7-6
(10-8), 4-6, 7-5.  Switzerland’s ninth-seeded  Stanislas Wawrinka , the most
successful clay-court player this season other than Nadal, beat
Thiemo de Bakker of the Netherlands in four sets.  Men’s 26th seed  Grigor Dimitrov  also advanced after
Alejandro Falla of Colombia quit with an elbow injury with the
Bulgarian leading 6-4, 1-0.  Dimitrov, who upset Djokovic in the second round in  Rome 
two weeks ago, may play the six-time major champion in the third
round.  Dimitrov, 22, told reporters that he wasn’t feeling “any
pressure” and that he thought he could win the tournament.  U.S. Qualifier  Other seeds to advance yesterday included 35-year-old  Tommy Haas , the No. 12 from  Germany , and women’s No. 18 Jelena Jankovic of Serbia. Jack Sock, a qualifier from the U.S. playing
in his first French Open, beat Spanish clay-courter Guillermo Garcia-Lopez.  Among the postponed matches were Australian Open champion
 Victoria Azarenka  of Belarus against Elena Vesnina of Russia and
former Wimbledon champion Petra Kvitova of the  Czech Republic 
versus France’s Aravane Rezai.  Those first-round matchups are scheduled to open play on
the main showcourts today, when women’s top seed  Serena Williams 
of the U.S. takes on Caroline Garcia of France and men’s No. 2
 Roger Federer  of Switzerland faces India’s Somdev Devvarman in
the second round.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  