-- Sugar at One-Week High as Brazil Rains Hit Harvest; Cocoa Gains
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-05-28T10:27:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/sugar-at-one-week-high-as-brazil-rains-hit-harvest-cocoa-gains.html
Sugar climbed to a one week-high in
 New York  as rains are set to disrupt harvesting this week in
 Brazil , the world’s largest producer, just as speculators’ bets
on lower prices reach a record. Cocoa advanced.  Rains forecast this week will disrupt the sugar cane
harvest in Brazil and help crop development, Sao Paulo-based
weather forecaster Somar Meteorologia said yesterday. Investors
increased their net-short position, or bets on lower prices, to
a record in the week ended May 21, according to U.S. Commodity
Futures Trading Commission  data compiled  by Bloomberg.  “Heavy rainfall is currently hampering the sugar cane
harvest in Brazil,”  Carsten Fritsch , an analyst at Commerzbank
AG in  Frankfurt , said in a report e-mailed today. “This should
not pose any problem given the rapid progress made so far.”  Raw sugar for delivery in July rose 0.8 percent to 16.97
cents a pound by 6:05 a.m. on ICE Futures U.S. in New York,
after rising as much as 17 cents a pound, the highest since May
20. White, or refined, sugar for delivery in August was up 0.8
percent to $480 a metric ton on NYSE Liffe in  London . Raw sugar
fell 3.6 percent this month.  Large and small speculators excluding index funds boosted
their net-short position by 7.3 percent to 123,471 contracts,
the Washington-based commission said in its Commitments of
Traders report. Positions held by  index funds  do not reflect
fundamentals of the sugar market as they “simply allocate a
given percentage of whatever money is invested in them to buying
sugar futures,” according to Marex Spectron Group.  Cane Processing  Industry group Unica will release figures for cane
processing in Brazil’s center south, the country’s main growing
region, for the first half of May later today. Cane processing
in the area probably reached 37 million tons in the period, up
from 21 million tons a year earlier, Jose Francisco Micheloni, a
broker with ICAP do Brasil Ctvm, said on May 22.  “The rain is improving the prospects for the rest of the
crop, as it will promote growth of the sugar cane,”
Commerzbank’s Fritsch said. “Thus the prospects of a record-high sugar cane harvest remain intact.”  Arabica coffee futures for July delivery gained 0.5 percent
to $1.2785 a pound on ICE. Robusta coffee futures for July
delivery were 0.5 percent lower at $1,942 a ton on NYSE Liffe.  If the Brazilian government takes steps to support growers
as recommended by the  Agriculture Ministry  and supplies are
taken away from the market, then it could be good news for the
bulls,  Rodrigo Costa , a trading director at Caturra Coffee
Corp., said in a report for Sao Paulo-based Archer Consulting,
where he is a contributor. Otherwise everything points to New
York prices testing $1.10 a pound, he said.  Cocoa for July delivery was up 0.3 percent to $2,252 a ton
in New York. Cocoa for delivery in the same month climbed 0.5 at
1,529 pounds ($2,310) a ton in London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 