-- U.K.’s Davey Urges 40% EU Emissions Target, Shuns Renewable Goal
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2013-05-28T14:15:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/u-k-s-davey-urges-40-eu-emissions-target-shuns-renewable-goal.html
U.K. Energy Secretary  Ed Davey  said
he’s against setting numerical targets for the European Union to
increase renewable generation while he endorses a more ambitious
goal for reducing emissions.  The European Union should target emissions reductions of at
least 40 percent by 2030, Davey said today in a  blog post  on his
department’s website. Member states should be allowed to reach
that goal by choosing from a mix of generation, including
nuclear power and carbon-capture and storage technology along
with renewable sources such as wind and biofuel, he said.  “We need a technology-neutral approach to how individual
countries meet their emissions targets,” he wrote. “We want to
maintain flexibility for member states.”  Europe’s climate and energy policy to 2020 has been key in
driving wind and solar plant construction from  England  to  Poland 
as it seeks to curb emissions while boosting supplies. The
bloc’s regulatory arm in March began debate on a framework for
renewables, energy efficiency and greenhouse-gas reduction
targets for the decade to 2030 and aims to present draft
legislation toward the end of this year.  The 27-member bloc should adopt a 50 percent cut in
greenhouse gases compared with 1990 levels if nations are able
to strike a global emissions deal in 2015 to replace the Kyoto
Protocol, Davey said. Existing EU law seeks a 20 percent
reduction in emissions by the end of the decade.  Energy Crisis  “These targets are achievable, affordable and necessary if
we are to limit climate change to manageable proportions,”
Davey said. “Without the EU adopting an ambitious approach, a
global deal will be virtually impossible.”  The British government is under pressure to build new power
stations as about one-fifth of its capacity is due to be retired
in the next decade. Lawmakers are working on an energy bill to
spur 110 billion pounds ($166 billion) of low-carbon generation,
including new nuclear and gas-fired plants.  The plans have been criticized by analyst Peter Atherton at
Liberum Capital Ltd., who wrote last month that the government
has “grossly underestimated” what’s needed and has set the
country on the path to an energy crisis. The U.K.’s own climate
adviser, the Committee on Climate Change, said the lack of 2030
carbon-reduction target for the power sector in the proposals
undermines investor confidence.  Environmental group WWF said a target for renewables is
vital.  “By providing greater certainty to investors in the EU’s
renewables sector, a future renewables target could help reduce
the costs of financing renewable-energy projects in the EU,”
WWF-U.K. Chief Executive Officer David Nussbaum said in a May 25
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  