-- Bank Outlook to Stable by Moody’s 5 Years After Cut
-- B y   Z e k e   F a u x
-- 2013-05-28T21:33:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/u-s-banking-system-upgraded-to-stable-by-moody-s-as-risks-fall.html
Moody’s Investors Service changed its
outlook for the U.S. banking system to stable after keeping it
negative since 2008, saying the country’s economy poses less of
a threat.  Gross domestic product will grow by 1.5 percent to 2.5
percent through next year, helping lenders avoid losses, the New
York-based credit-rating company said today in a report. Banks
have raised capital to protect against potential deterioration
in the economy, while low  interest rates  have buoyed the values
of their real-estate portfolios, Moody’s said.  Moody’s is becoming more optimistic about U.S. lenders a
year after it downgraded 15 banks in a review of the global
financial system. The change didn’t affect its negative outlooks
for  Bank of America Corp.  and  Citigroup Inc. (C) , both of which are
rated Baa2, two levels above junk.  “The downside risk of the  U.S. economy  and  Europe  is less
than what it was a year ago, which reinforces the improvement in
the banks’ balance sheets,” Sean Jones, a Moody’s analyst, said
in a phone interview.  The median rating for U.S. banks, which was A1 in June 2007
before the financial crisis, has slipped to A3, Moody’s said.
The outlook for the U.S. banking system refers to its
expectations of changes in creditworthiness over the next 12 to
18 months.  Low Rates  Banks are struggling to boost profitability with interest
rates near zero, Moody’s said. That may lead the companies to
make riskier loans in order to increase net income, according to
the credit-rating company. It also raises the value of debts
banks already own, it said.  “Protracted low rates are negative for profitability but
they do help with the asset quality,” Allen Tischler, a Moody’s
analyst, said in an interview. “It does cut both ways.”  Bond performance shows that investors also view U.S.
lenders as more creditworthy. Bank bonds have returned 16.7
percent since the end of 2011, beating the 11 percent gain for
all U.S. investment-grade bonds, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data.  Moody’s outlook for the biggest U.S. banks, which benefit
from potential government bailouts, is negative because
regulators are developing a plan for orderly liquidations that
may make future taxpayer-funded rescues less likely, Jones said.
Moody’s said it will decide whether to downgrade the banks or
raise the outlooks to stable by year-end.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zeke Faux in  New York  at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  