-- U.S. Company Credit Swaps Hold; Pfizer Sells $4 Billion in Bonds
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2013-05-28T20:56:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/u-s-corporate-credit-swaps-decline-before-consumer-confidence.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit risk
was little changed as Pfizer Inc. sold $4 billion in bonds, its
first debt offering since 2009.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, dropped 0.3
basis point to a mid-price of 75.5 basis points at 4:11 p.m. in
New York, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  Accommodative Federal Reserve policy in addition to signs
of an improving economy may alleviate investor concern that
companies will struggle to repay their debts.  Consumer
confidence  is linked to spending, so gains in sentiment may
signal that the recovery is gaining traction, according to
Matthew Duch, a fund manager at Calvert Investments Inc. in
Bethesda,  Maryland .  “The Fed definitely wants to increase consumer spending,”
Duch said in a telephone interview. “If the consumer feels
good, that means gross domestic product growth and the economy
are on better footing.”  The Conference Board’s  consumer confidence  index rose to
76.2 this month, the highest level since February 2008, from a
revised 69 in April, data from the New York-based private
research group showed today. The median  forecast  called for an
increase to 71.2. The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values
increased 10.9 percent in the year ended in March, the biggest
12-month gain since April 2006, a report showed today.  Swaps Unchanged  The credit-swaps index typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  The swaps measure earlier dropped by as much as 3.1 basis
points, the biggest intraday decline since May 3, while the Dow
Jones Industrial Average jumped 106.29 points to 15,409.39 at 4
p.m. in New York, returning to a record.  “The fact that it did come in to where it’s largely
unchanged is an indication that the risk sentiment did not
change today despite the equity rally,” Adrian Miller, director
of fixed-income strategies at GMP Securities LLC in New York,
said in a telephone interview.  Pfizer sold $4 billion of bonds in its first dollar-denominated debt sale since March 2009.  The world’s largest drugmaker issued $1 billion of five-year, fixed-rate securities to yield 50 basis points more than
similar-maturity Treasuries and an equal portion of 10-year debt
with a relative yield of 87.5 basis points, according to a
person with knowledge of the offering who asked not to be
identified because terms aren’t set.  ‘Strong Demand’  Pfizer’s $750 million of three-year notes had a relative
yield of 45 basis points, while an equal amount of 30-year debt
priced at 100, according to the person. The company also offered
$500 million of five-year, floating-rate notes to yield 30 basis
points more than the three-month London interbank offered rate.  “The market is wide open for people,” Calvert’s Duch
said. “If you’re a new issuer or an issuer that doesn’t come
that often, there’s strong demand and you can get good
pricing.”  The risk premium on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index rose 2.2 basis points to 372.4 basis points,
Bloomberg prices show. It earlier fell to 356.9 in the biggest
drop since May 3.  The average relative yield on speculative-grade, or junk-rated, debt tightened 8.1 basis points to 484 basis points,
Bloomberg data show. High-yield, high-risk debt is rated below
Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and less than BBB- at Standard
& Poor’s.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  