-- U.S. Military Attache Shot and Injured in Venezuelan Nightclub
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x   a n d   C o r i n a   P o n s
-- 2013-05-28T19:49:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/u-s-military-attache-shot-and-injured-in-venezuelan-nightclub.html
A U.S. military attaché at the
embassy in  Venezuela  was injured in a shooting at a nightclub in
Caracas early this morning, according to a police report
obtained by Bloomberg.  The official, named as Roberto Ezequiel, was hospitalized
with gunshot wounds, the report said. State Department spokesman
Patrick Ventrell told reporters in  Washington  that two embassy
officials were injured in the incident and that their wounds
weren’t considered life-threatening.  “My understanding is that this was at some sort of social
spot or somewhere outside of the embassy grounds,” Ventrell
said, according to a transcript of his comments.  The shooting took place at the Angelus night club at 4:25
a.m., according to the police report. Angelus, which changed its
name to Antonella recently, is a strip club, said Hermando
Herrera who has worked as a car park supervisor in the mall for
more than 20 years.  “Lots of famous people come here,” Herrera, 42, said.
“You get a bit of everything - baseball players, basketball
players.”  Outside the club there are signs prohibiting entry to
couples, unaccompanied women and anyone under the age of 30.
Inside the club, which was shut today, a wall had black-and-white images of pole dancing women wearing platform heels or
knee-length boots.  Homicides Soar  Homicides in Venezuela have almost quadrupled in the 14
years since the late  Hugo Chavez  took power. His successor,
President  Nicolas Maduro , made the issue a key part of his
election campaign in April.  Homicides jumped to 16,030 in 2012 from 4,550 in 1998,
according to data published by the government and  United
Nations . The oil-rich nation has overtaken  Colombia  as  South
America ’s most dangerous country as homicides in Venezuela are
up 23 percent in the past two year, according to the UN.  Tensions between Venezuela and the U.S. have escalated
since Chavez’s death in March triggered an emergency election in
which Maduro was declared the winner with a 1.49 percentage-point margin. Maduro expelled two U.S. officials from the
country hours before announcing Chavez’s death, accusing them of
trying to destabilize the country.  Earlier this month, Maduro said U.S. President  Barack Obama 
is directly financing violent opposition groups in a bid to
generate civil conflict that would justify an intervention in
South America’s largest oil producer.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net ;
Corina Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net . 