-- Hungary May Win EU Reward for Budget Cuts
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2013-05-28T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/hungary-may-win-eu-reward-for-budget-cuts.html
Hungarian Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s three-year fight to fix public finances may be rewarded
today if the European Commission recommends ending nine years of
budget monitoring.  The commission, the European Union’s executive, will
present recommendations for its 27 member states and will name
candidates it sees fit to exit the deficit procedures, according
to its  website . The final vote on the proposals will be taken at
a meeting of the bloc’s finance ministers in June.  Orban, who sacrificed growth to keep the budget shortfall
within the bloc’s limit, faces elections in 2014. He has made an
exit from EU fiscal monitoring a priority to remove the threat
of cuts in funding from the bloc, which accounts for 95 percent
of infrastructure investments. Hungary probably convinced the
commission, according to Raffaella Tenconi, an economist at  Bank
of America (BAC)  Merrill Lynch.  “At this stage, exit in 2013 is a political victory for
Prime Minister Orban but for fiscal policy it doesn’t make a
difference in the near term,” she said in an e-mail yesterday.  The forint gained to as much as 285.58 per euro yesterday,
its strongest in more than five months, and traded at 286.83 at
6:08 p.m. in Budapest. The benchmark BUX stock index advanced
1.1 percent to 19,481.47, its highest since Jan. 30. The yield
on the government’s dollar bonds maturing in 2023 rose to 5.17
percent from 5.11 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  ‘New Measures’  The Orban Cabinet’s reliance on extraordinary industry
taxes contributed to a  recession  last year and has been opposed
by the EU for damaging growth prospects.  Hungary  needs to keep
its budget  shortfall  below the bloc’s limit of 3 percent of
economic output to end the monitoring. The shortfall was 1.9
percent last year and the commission forecasts to widen to 3
percent this year and 3.3 percent in 2014.  The Economy Ministry last week proposed levying a tax on
advertisements to get back below the limit. The government
announced on May 10 that it would freeze 92.9 billion forint
($417 million) of budget expenditures this year and next and
said it was ready to save another 80 billion forint in 2014 to
keep the deficit in check.  “By taking new measures the government can ensure the
deficit will remain clearly below 3 percent this year and
next,” Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn 
said May 3 after the forecasts were released.  The government, which disputes the EU estimate, predicts a
shortfall of 2.7 percent for both years.  Growth Forecasts  The government last year backtracked on a pledge to cut the
bank tax in half and introduced a financial-transaction tax to
rein in the deficit. The EU and the  International Monetary Fund 
had urged the country to ease the bank burden to boost growth
after relying on a policy of squeezing lenders to cover budget
holes.  Orban has argued that the economy will expand more than the
European Commission’s 0.2 percent forecast for this year,
allowing him to keep the shortfall within the bloc’s limit.  The economy grew 0.7 percent in the first quarter from the
previous three months, expanding for the first time since 2011.
The Cabinet forecasts 0.7 percent growth this year, with Orban
predicting an expansion of as much as 1 percent.  “Freeing Hungary from the excessive-deficit procedure
would mean that potentially less new sectoral tax hikes are
needed, which would be good for business sentiment,”  Annika Lindblad , a Helsinki-based analyst at  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) , said in an
e-mailed note yesterday. A negative EU assessment would hit
sentiment hard, she wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  