-- United Airlines Rejected by Top Court on Disabilities Law
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2013-05-28T13:32:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/united-airlines-rejected-by-top-court-on-disabilities-law.html
The U.S.  Supreme Court  turned away an
appeal by United Airlines that sought to limit a federal law
that requires employers to accommodate disabled workers.  The justices today left intact a federal appeals court’s
conclusion that an employer generally must offer a vacant
position to a newly disabled worker even when a more-qualified
applicant wants the job.  United, backed by business groups, said the appeals court
ruling will turn the 1990 Americans with Disabilities Act, or
ADA, into an affirmative action statute by giving those it
covers an edge over other job seekers. United, the world’s
largest airline, is owned by Chicago-based  United Continental
Holdings Inc. (UAL)   The lower court’s reasoning “disregards the unassailable
prerogative of employers to select only the best qualified
candidates for job vacancies,” business groups including the
Washington-based U.S. Chamber of Commerce argued in court
papers.  The ADA covers more than 50 million people and entitles
disabled workers to “reasonable accommodations” for their
physical or mental impairments.  United is fighting a 2009 lawsuit brought by the federal
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. The agency contends the
airline violates the ADA with its procedures for accommodating
disabled employees. The high court rebuff means the suit can
move ahead.  Rejection Urged  The Obama administration, on behalf of the EEOC, urged the
justices to let the Chicago-based appellate panel’s ruling
stand.  “The court of appeals’ approach is true to the statutory
text and properly balances the remedial goals of the ADA with
the legitimate interests of employers,” the administration
argued.  The high court said in a 2002 decision that disabled
employees generally don’t have the right to bypass a company’s
seniority system. United contended that ruling supports its
position in the latest case.  “This court’s analysis does not suggest, much less
dictate, that an accommodation is ‘reasonable’ where it requires
a more-qualified individual to be denied a position,” United
argued.  The case is  United Airlines  v. Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission, 12-707.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  