-- Upside of Low Employment Is Longer Life
-- B y   P e t e r   O r s z a g
-- 2013-05-28T22:00:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/upside-of-low-employment-is-longer-life.html
This is a morbid column about some
unexpected and encouraging news: Deep economic declines, such as
the one we experienced in the U.S. a few years ago, probably
 lengthen life expectancy . This is exactly the opposite of what
most people believe.  A reasonable estimate is that for every percentage-point
increase in the  unemployment rate , the U.S. mortality rate drops
by 0.3 percentage point. In other words, and although it runs
counter to our intuition, recessions may be bad for our wallets
but good for our health.  Part of the reason is that there are fewer traffic
fatalities. This makes sense because there’s typically less
traffic when the economy slows down. From 2002 to 2007, the
number of Americans dying in motor-vehicle accidents was roughly
constant, at about 42,000 or so per year. By 2011, that figure
had dropped by almost a quarter,  to 32,367  -- the lowest since
1949, when the  U.S. population  was half what it is now.  Still, automobile accidents account for  less than 2 percent 
of deaths each year, so the drop in these fatalities accounts
for only a tiny part of why life expectancy improves during
recessions.  The rest of the story may be explained by evidence found in
three recent studies. One of these was about Iceland, which
experienced a severe recession after its banking crisis in
October 2008. During the bust, Icelanders abandoned various
unhealthy behaviors, according to  surveys  conducted by the
 University of Iceland ,  Rider University  and the Robert Wood
Johnson Medical School in  New Jersey  in 2007 and 2009.  Better Behavior  Among working-age people, for example, the share who smoked
fell to 19 percent, from 23 percent before the crisis. The
proportion who consumed at least five alcoholic drinks in a day
at least once a month declined to 17 percent, from 20 percent.
The share eating fast food weekly fell to 25 percent in 2009,
from 32 percent in 2007, and the figure for those practicing
indoor tanning declined to 13 percent from 17 percent.
Meanwhile, the proportion of people getting adequate sleep rose
to 76 percent, from 72 percent.  The effects of these shifts apparently outweighed any
negative effects of the crisis -- for example, the increasing
share of Icelanders suffering from anxiety or poor mental
health.  A second  study focused on air pollution , specifically
carbon monoxide, particulate matter and ozone. Higher
concentrations of carbon monoxide are connected with higher
mortality rates, economists Garth Heutel of the University of
 North Carolina  at Greensboro and Christopher Ruhm of the
 University of Virginia  found. A one-standard-deviation increase
in carbon monoxide raises the mortality rate by 2 percent, they
observed. As one would expect, this effect seems to be
concentrated in deaths from respiratory and cardiovascular
diseases.  Heutel and Ruhm demonstrate that about one-third of the
effect of high unemployment on mortality can be attributed to
less pollution: When the economy is in a recession,
concentrations of carbon monoxide are lower, and this
improvement in  air quality  benefits people’s health.  The  third study  found that deaths among the elderly decline
disproportionately during a recession, and that the quality of
nursing-home staff may be an important reason. Staffing ratios
in nursing homes tend to be higher when the overall labor market
weakens, because more people are willing to work in the
facilities, this study found.  Taken together, the evidence suggests that a combination of
forces contribute to the increase in  life expectancy  during
times of higher unemployment: Motor vehicle deaths decline,
people tend to avoid unhealthy behavior, air pollution is
diminished, and nursing home staffing improves.  None of which should make us wish for economic trouble.
Higher unemployment means loss of productivity, lower income and
mental anguish, and those are more than sufficient reasons to
combat joblessness. There may be some small consolation, though,
in learning that it probably doesn’t harm human health the way
that we all imagined.  (Peter Orszag is vice chairman of corporate and investment
banking and chairman of the financial strategy and solutions
group at Citigroup Inc. and a former director of the Office of
Management and Budget in the Obama administration. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
 Peter Orszag  at  orszagbloomberg@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  