-- Valeant Agrees to Buy Bausch & Lomb in $8.7 Billion Deal
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2013-05-28T14:16:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/valeant-agrees-to-buy-bausch-lomb-in-8-7-billion-deal.html
Valeant Pharmaceuticals International
Inc. (VRX) ’s $8.7 billion deal for Bausch & Lomb Holdings Inc., the
eye-care company owned by Warburg Pincus LLC, positions Canada’s
largest drugmaker to compete globally in the growing,
specialized ophthalmology market.  The deal’s value includes $4.2 billion that Valeant will
use to pay off Bausch & Lomb debt, the companies said in a
statement. Bausch & Lomb, bought by Warburg in a 2007 leveraged
buyout, filed in March for an initial public offering after an
earlier effort to sell itself for at least $10 billion stalled,
people familiar with the matter said at the time.  The Bausch & Lomb deal is the largest of 15 publicly
announced  acquisitions  for Montreal-based Valeant since it was
created in a 2010 merger of its U.S. predecessor and  Canada ’s
Biovail Corp. Chief Executive Officer Mike Pearson’s strategy
has been to mix large and small deals and focus on areas such as
dermatology and eye care.  “Merger of equals remains an opportunity for us, right
time right place,” Pearson said on a call today with investors
and analysts. “We certainly continue to explore, continue to
have discussions and we hope it will eventually be part of the
playbook.”  Acquisition Strategy  Small tuck-ins also remain part of the acquisition
strategy. Valeant is interested in many other specialty areas,
Pearson said, and needs three or four months to get a handle on
Bausch & Lomb before the company starts talking about those.  Valeant is as committed to Bausch & Lomb’s consumer and
surgical devices units as any of its other businesses, Pearson
said.  “We’ve always stated that we’ll never fall in love with
any of our assets, and if any of our assets are worth more to
someone else, we will divest them,” Pearson said.  Valeant will finance the deal with about $1.5 billion to $2
billion in new equity and debt secured from Goldman Sachs Group
Inc., the companies said in the statement.  Valeant rose 11 percent to $93.87 at 10:06 a.m. in  New York 
trading. The shares climbed as high as $96.25, their highest
intraday price since 1994.  The purchase will add to Valeant’s  earnings  per share
immediately, according to the statement the companies released
yesterday. Valeant expects to achieve at least $800 million in
annual cost savings by the end of next year, the companies said.  Growing Specialty  “Ophthalmology has been an area we’ve been talking about
probably for three years,” Pearson said yesterday in an
interview. “It’s an area we like a lot. It’s a lot like
dermatology -- a growing market, a growing specialty.”  Valeant’s existing eye-care businesses will be added to
Rochester, New York-based Bausch & Lomb to create a division
that will have pro forma 2013 revenue of more than $3.5 billion,
according to the statement.  “Valeant will restructure the business but it will also
have to invest, put some fuel in the machine, otherwise Bausch &
Lomb will have trouble keeping up with eye-care companies such
as Alcon,” said Eric Le Berrigaud, a health-care analyst at
Bryan Garnier & Co. in Paris, in a telephone interview.  Alcon is the ophthalmology and eye-products division of
Basel, Switzerland-based  Novartis AG. (NOVN)  The Swiss drug giant
completed its acquisition of Alcon in April 2011 and reported
$10.2 billion in  sales  from the division last year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Potential Reductions  Valeant will have about 18,000 employees once the deal is
complete, Pearson said yesterday. The number of jobs that may be
eliminated to reduce overlap and duplication hasn’t been
determined, he said. Bausch & Lomb spends about 40 percent of
revenue on selling, general and administrative expenses and
Valeant aims for about a 20 percent ratio, Pearson said.  “There’s many, many non-personnel savings here as well,”
Pearson said. “We can get better distribution fees in different
markets. There’s a lot of purchasing synergies. There’s a lot of
real estate synergies.”  Valeant has a wide range of drugs, including the
antidepressant Wellbutrin XL, over-the-counter products and
medical devices. The company reported $3.5 billion in 2012
revenue and had $413.7 million in  cash  and near cash as of March
31, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  More Diverse  Bausch & Lomb generated $3 billion in 2012 sales of its
products such as  contact lenses , eye-care solutions and
prescription medicines, with more than 40 percent of the revenue
coming from  North America , filings show. Eye products don’t
require a large sales force and are often bought with cash,
Pearson said. The Bausch & Lomb deal also helps diversify
Valeant’s product line out of dermatology, he said.  The purchase will help Valeant enter  emerging markets ,
including  China , where the company didn’t compete before,
Pearson said on today’s call.  Valeant last month was said to be in talks to merge with
Parsippany, New Jersey-based  Actavis Inc. (ACT) , the largest U.S.
generic-drug maker, according to people familiar with the
matter. Actavis on May 20 said it agreed to buy  Warner Chilcott
Plc  for about $5 billion.  Pearson yesterday declined to say whether Valeant had
sought Actavis. The company makes about 25 deals a year,
including small purchases that don’t have to be reported. While
it won’t rule out other deals as it digests Bausch & Lomb, it’s
“not our intention” to make another of that size, Pearson
said.  “We’ll never say never,” he said. “The rest of this year
we’ll be largely focused on excellent integration of this
deal.”  Valeant’s  largest purchase  to date was a $2.4 billion deal
for Medicis, a skin-care company, after it failed in 2011 to buy
drugmaker Cephalon Inc. with a bid of about $5.7 billion.  Valeant’s most recent deal before Bausch & Lomb was an
April purchase of Obagi Medical Products Inc., the maker of
prescription skin-care products, for about $418 million.  Valeant’s legal advisers were Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher
& Flom LLP and Osler, Hoskin & Harcourt LLP. Cleary, Gottlieb,
Steen & Hamilton LLP was legal adviser to Bausch & Lomb, with
Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan Chase & Co. as financial advisers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  