-- Varco to Honghua Vying for $9 Billion of Russia Oil Rigs: Energy
-- B y   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n   a n d   J a k e   R u d n i t s k y
-- 2013-05-29T14:05:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/varco-to-honghua-vying-for-9-billion-of-russia-oil-rigs-energy.html
Russia ’s thirst for modern rigs able
to drill in shale  oil deposits  heralds a $9 billion bonanza for
manufacturers including  National Oilwell Varco Inc. (NOV)  of the U.S.
and  China ’s Honghua Group.  More than 57 percent of the nation’s 1,835-strong rig fleet
is over 20 years old, according to VTB Capital research. Built
to Soviet designs, many won’t be powerful or advanced enough for
producers such as  OAO Rosneft (ROSN)  and  OAO Gazprom (GAZP)  Neft when they
begin exploring Siberia’s shale rock, said Antony Crawford,
Russia head for National Oilwell. The largest U.S. oil equipment
supplier competes with Honghua and OAO OMZ for orders in Russia,
the world’s largest energy producer.  “Russia’s rig fleet is too old, too light and it lacks
agility,” said Olga Danilenko, an oilfield services analyst at
Russian investment bank VTB Capital. Paying to move an old rig
in a remote region is a big risk considering the likelihood of a
breakdown and expensive logistics in providing parts, she said.  Rosneft and partner  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  started exploring the
Bazhenov shale this year, a Siberian formation as big as  France 
that state geologists estimate contains enough oil to more than
double Russia’s reserves. President  Vladimir Putin  wants it
developed to help maintain production above 10 million barrels a
day. Compared with conventional oil, shale needs more rigs. The
machines also must be more powerful, driving unit costs to the
middle of a $10 million-$60 million  price range .  “New drilling rigs must be built,” said Crawford, whose
Houston-based company plans a factory east of Moscow. “This
issue represents a clear and present danger to Russia’s ability
to maintain output during the next three to five years.”  New Rigs  Deliveries of new rigs will reach a five-year high of 105
units this year, according to VTB data. Still, older rigs are
being retired at a rate of more than 400 a year, threatening a
squeeze on capacity as drilling ramps up.  National Oilwell, which had $20 billion in revenue last
year, may sell five rigs to Russia-focused companies this year,
VTB said. It will compete with Russia’s OAO OMZ, owner of the
Uralmash plant, a Soviet tank factory in World War II that
became one of the world’s biggest rig builders during the oil
boom of the 1970s. While production collapsed after the end of
communism, it remains an important supplier.  Honghua Group (196) , China’s largest exporter of drilling rigs,
sees a need for more of its gear in Russia, Zhang Mi, chairman
and president, said earlier this month in an interview. The
company’s second-largest sales region is Russia, he said.  Innovative Equipment  “Half the drilling rigs there are outdated,” Mi said
through a translator at the Offshore Technology Conference in
Houston. “They see a great need for new innovative equipment.”  The company has started a joint venture in Russia to meet
demand, he said.  “Part of the production equipment is coming from China and
part from Russia,” he said. “Together we are able to meet the
demand in Russia.”  Honghua shares dropped 1.3 percent to close at HK$3.79 in
Hong Kong trading today. National Oilwell Varco traded little
changed at $71.50 in New York at 10:04 a.m. local time.  Last year Russia’s monthly count of rigs in operation
ranged from a low of 717 rigs in February to a high of 978 rigs
in June, according to data on REnergyCo’s website.  A lack of rig capacity hasn’t yet dented Russian output,
which hovered near a post-Soviet record at 10.47 million barrels
a day in March, and it may be early to talk about a drilling rig
shortage, said Ildar Davletshin, an oil and gas analyst at
 Renaissance Capital .  Tighter Balance  “The talk about shortage has been ongoing for many years,
but so far it has not materialized,” he said. “There is
tighter balance for high-spec rigs that will be potentially in
higher demand” as shale fields are developed.  Chinese, U.S. and German manufacturers seem capable of
delivering required quantities of rigs, he said.  Rosneft and Gazprom Neft have paired with  Royal Dutch Shell
Plc (RDSA) , seeking to follow strategies used in the U.S., where
blasting oil from rock in places like the Bakken shale in  North
Dakota  reversed decades of production declines.  Because oil can be harder to extract from shale, rigs often
need to turn a drill bit 90 degrees and continue penetrating
horizontally. This is combined with a process called fracturing
where water, sand and chemicals are pumped into a well to smash
rock and increase oil flows.  Stumbling Block  A lack of modern rigs remains a key stumbling block to
developing Bazhenov, Bernstein analysts including  Oswald Clint 
wrote in a note yesterday. Hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, at
horizontal wells in Russia breaks even at $90 a barrel without
tax breaks, they estimated. Russia’s Urals export blend is
trading at about $102 a barrel.  Rosneft and Gazprom Neft didn’t respond to requests for
comment on Russia’s oil rig fleet.  In the U.S., 250 rigs are need to produce about 700,000
barrels a day at the Bakken shale, said  Richard Anderson , chief
financial officer of  Eurasia Drilling (EDCL)  Co., Russia’s largest rig
operator. That gives an indication of how many rigs could be
needed to to exploit the Bazhenov, he said.  Supplying that number of rigs at an average of $35 million
would cost $8.8 billion.  “These rigs are not currently in the Russian drilling
fleet, so they would need to be added,” Anderson said.  Rosneft,  OAO Lukoil (LKOH)  and Gazprom Neft are already snapping
up services for horizontal drilling and fracturing for more
profitable wells before producing a single commercial barrel
from the Bazhenov. Rosneft will drill and fracture 50 horizontal
this year compared to three last year. TNK-BP, newly purchased
by Rosneft, will use the technique in almost half the wells it
drills this year, a sixfold increase in just two years. Gazprom
Neft will double wells using this technique.  Drilling Power  Another concern is whether Russia has enough drilling
power, according to Leonid Mirzoyan, chief corporate financial
officer at C.A.T. Oil AG, Russia’s largest provider of
fracturing services. The U.S. has built up about 25 million
horsepower for hydraulic fracturing, mostly over the past five
to seven years, while Russian has at best 850,000 horsepower, he
said.  Production of so-called tight oil in Russia, including
production from the Bazhenov and Priobskoye shales, could total
around 200,000 barrels a day in 2018, according to the
 International Energy Agency , or IEA, mid-term oil outlook. That
will create a steady demand for larger rigs.  “The number of drilling rigs in Russia that could drill a
7,000-meter vertical well bore and then shoot off and continue
drilling horizontally for another 3 or 4 kilometers in extreme
winter weather conditions is quite small,” National Oil’s
Russia chief Crawford said in an interview. “I could probably
count them on one hand.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Bierman in Moscow at 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net ;
Jake Rudnitsky in Moscow at 
 jrudnitsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  