-- Vietnam Says Chinese Vessel Rammed Fishing Boat Off its Coast
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-05-28T05:20:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/vietnam-says-chinese-vessel-rammed-fishing-boat-off-its-coast.html
Vietnam said a Chinese ship rammed a
fishing boat off its coast and demanded compensation, marking
the first incident between the neighboring countries since  China 
announced a unilateral fishing ban earlier this month.  The May 20 clash involved a Vietnamese vessel from the
central province of Quang Ngai carrying 15 fisherman, according
to a  statement  posted yesterday on the website of Vietnam’s
Ministry of  Foreign Affairs . It took place within Vietnam’s
exclusive economic zone, according to the statement, which
didn’t specify an exact location.  “The actions of the Chinese ships seriously infringed upon
Vietnamese sovereignty, rights and jurisdiction in the Eastern
Sea, damaging the property and threatening the lives of
Vietnamese fishermen,” the Ministry of Foreign Affairs said,
referring to the South China Sea.  Competition for fish, oil and gas in the South China Sea
has increased tensions in recent years as countries become more
assertive in enforcing territorial claims. Taiwan President Ma Ying-jeou this month froze the hiring of Filipino workers and
urged citizens to avoid visiting the  Philippines  after one of
its Coast Guard crews killed a 65-year-old Taiwanese fishermen.  China imposed a unilateral  fishing ban  in the  South China
Sea  from May 16 to Aug. 1, an annual stipulation that has been
in effect since 1999. Vietnam said on May 16 the prohibition
violates its sovereignty in parts of the waters.  Depleted Fisheries  China’s increased capability to defend its maritime claims
combined with depleted fishing resources in areas near its
shores has led to increased tension with neighboring countries,
according to  Zhang Hong Zhou , a senior analyst at the S.
Rajaratnam School of International Studies.  “Unilateral action against each other’s fishermen will
cause bigger problems,” he said by phone. “It can easily
become a major diplomatic and security conflict if you can’t
handle it well.”  In March, the two countries sparred after  Vietnam  said a
Chinese ship fired on Vietnamese fishermen near the  Paracel
Islands , which China took from Vietnam in a 1974 battle. China
 said  its actions were necessary and the boat wasn’t damaged.  The Philippines on May 21 said it planned to file a
diplomatic protest against China after a Chinese naval vessel
escorted a fishing ship near a South China Sea shoal patrolled
by Filipino soldiers.  An exclusive economic zone refers to an area of sovereignty
stretching 200 nautical miles from a country’s coastal baseline,
according to the United Nations Convention on the Law of the
Sea.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Folkmanis in  Ho Chi Minh City  at 
 folkmanis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  