-- Wal-Mart Will Pay $81.6 Million in Pollutant Dumping Case
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2013-05-28T21:38:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/wal-mart-will-pay-81-6-million-in-pollutant-dumping-case.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the world’s
largest retailer, will pay $81.6 million after pleading guilty
to misdemeanor charges that its stores improperly disposed of
hazardous waste throughout California in 2003 and 2004.  Corrosive and hazardous liquid waste from common consumer
products were dumped into drains of public sewers owned by local
sanitation districts in violation of U.S. laws, prosecutors said
today in a federal court filing in San Francisco.  Under a plea agreement, Wal-Mart will pay $60 million in
fines and community service payments in California, $14 million
in fines and community service payments in Missouri and a $7.6
million U.S. Environmental Protection Agency fine, according to
a  Justice Department statement.   Truckloads of hazardous products, including more than 2
million pounds of pesticides, were improperly handled, according
to federal prosecutors in Missouri.  The incidents occurred years ago and no specific
environmental impact has been alleged, the Bentonville,
Arkansas-based company said in an e-mailed statement. Since
then, Wal-Mart designed and implemented comprehensive
environmental programs that remain in place today, according to
the statement.  “Walmart has a comprehensive and industry-leading
hazardous waste program,” Phyllis Harris, senior vice president
and chief compliance officer, Walmart US, said in the statement.
“The program was built around training, policies and procedures
on how to safely handle consumer products that become hazardous
waste, and we continue to run the same program in every store
and club that was deployed years ago.”  The  California  case is U.S. v. Wal-Mart, 13-00334, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of California (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  