-- Watchdog Groups Decry Obama Limits on Whistle-Blowers
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2013-05-28T21:47:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/watchdog-groups-decry-obama-limits-on-whistle-blowers.html
Open-government advocates said a
proposed U.S. rule that could lead to more federal jobs being
classified as sensitive may also make it easier to fire federal
whistle-blowers.  The  Government Accountability Project  and the Project on
Government Oversight said the draft rule, published in the
 Federal Register today , was premature as the  U.S. Court of
Appeals  for the Federal Circuit weighs whether employees in
“sensitive” jobs have the same rights to appeal termination as
other federal workers.  The proposed rule from the Director of National
Intelligence and the Office of Personnel Management
“dramatically expands the use of this label of sensitive to
apply to a great number of jobs,” said Angela Canterbury,
director of public policy for the Project on Government
Oversight, a Washington-based watchdog group.  Workers who don’t have security clearances can now appeal
their termination to the Merit Systems Protection Board, an
independent federal agency whose chairman is picked by the
president.  The Government Accountability Project said the rule could
classify public-safety workers, border patrol agents, foreign
service officials and other federal workers as holding sensitive
positions.  If the court decides that workers in sensitive jobs don’t
have the same ability to appeal termination, then it may make it
easier for administrations to fire employees who leak
information to the press or attempt to expose corruption and
mismanagement, Canterbury said.  Fox, AP  “The current regulations are now 20 years old and provide
only general guidance,” the Director of National Intelligence
and the  Office of Personnel Management  said in a joint e-mail
response to questions today. “The new regulations will clarify
the requirements and procedures agencies should follow when
designating national security positions, by providing more
detail and concrete examples.”  A White House spokesman didn’t immediately respond to an e-mailed request for a comment on the rule.  Earlier this month, U.S. lawmakers criticized the
administration of President  Barack Obama  for subpoenaing phone
records of Associated Press reporters after the news service
published a story about a foiled terrorist plot that originated
in  Yemen . The  Department of Justice  also disclosed earlier this
month that it subpoenaed the phone records and e-mails of a Fox
News reporter in a leak investigation.  First Amendment groups have also condemned the
administration’s indictments of five government workers for
leaking information under a World War I-era spy law.  “There couldn’t be a more sweeping roll back on the rule
of law for the federal  labor force ,” Tom Devine, legal director
for the Government Accountability Project, said in an interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  