-- Wheat ‘Itching to Rally’ on Southern Drought, Northern Rain
-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 2013-05-29T20:41:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/wheat-itching-to-rally-on-southern-u-s-drought-northern-rain.html
Drought in the southern Great Plains
left U.S. winter wheat in the worst condition in almost seven
years while rain delays spring planting in the north, boosting
the risk of crop damage for the world’s largest exporter.  About 31  percent  of winter wheat, the most common-domestic
variety, was in good or excellent condition on May 26, the
lowest for this time of year since 2006, the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture  said yesterday. Western parts of  Kansas , Oklahoma
and  Texas  will have hot, dry weather this week, further eroding
yields, forecaster DTN said. Spring-wheat planting was 79
percent finished, down from the five-year average of 86 percent,
as six times the normal amount of rain fell in  North Dakota 
during the past week, government data show.  Dimming prospects for crops in the U.S., which accounted
for 20 percent of the world’s exports last year, may halt a
slide in Chicago wheat futures that are down 27 percent from a
peak in July, according to Jon Marcus, the president of
Lakefront Futures and Options LLC.  Hedge funds  and other large
speculators on May 21 had the most-bearish bets on prices since
September 2011, mostly on expectations that global output would
surge to a record.  “This market is itching to rally,” Marcus said by
telephone from Chicago. “With wheat, it’s super hot and dry in
some areas, and in other areas they can’t get away from the
rain. I would be really nervous about being short wheat right
now.”  Wheat futures for July delivery gained 1.3 percent to
settle at $7.0275 a bushel today on the  Chicago  Board of Trade.
Because of production concerns in the U.S., the price may rise
to $7.10 by the end of the week, Marcus said. The grain has
dropped 9.7 percent this year on expectations that the global
harvest would surge.  Kansas Crop  The crop in Kansas, the biggest U.S. grower of winter
varieties, was rated 28 percent good or excellent, unchanged
from the prior week, according to the USDA. In Oklahoma, the
second-biggest grower of hard-red winter wheat, used mostly to
make bread, 17 percent was rated good or excellent, down from 19
percent the prior week, government data show.  The worst drought since the 1930s has created blowing dirt
reminiscent of the Dust Bowl era in parts of western Kansas and
the Oklahoma and Texas panhandles. The region is in an
exceptional drought, the worst possible rating, meaning crops
have been damaged and water is in short supply, according to the
Lincoln, Nebraska-based U.S. Drought Monitor.  Prices dropped this year as the USDA forecast a 6.9 percent
rebound in global output to 701.1 million metric tons in the
year that starts June 1. Russian production will rise 48 percent
and Ukraine growers will collect 40 percent more, USDA data
show. Global stockpiles will gain 3.4 percent to 186.4 million
tons.  ‘Production Potential’  “The weather outside the U.S. is pressuring prices,”
 Terry Reilly , a senior commodity analyst at Futures
International LLC in Chicago, said by telephone. “What some
traders are doing may be buying corn and selling another
commodity, in this case wheat, as overall production potential
globally looks favorable.”  Speculators doubled their net-short positions, or bets that
prices would fall, in Chicago wheat to 40,447 futures and
options contracts in the week ended May 21, Commodity Futures
Trading Commission data show. The 157 percent increase was the
biggest since September 2011.  The U.S. hard-red winter crop entered dormancy in November
in the worst shape since record-keeping started in 1985 because
of the drought, USDA data show. Freezing weather the past two
months curbed yields for plants in western parts of the region.
 Oklahoma  production may drop 45 percent this year, the state’s
wheat commission said earlier this month.  Poor weather conditions will underpin prices, said Dennis DeLaughter, an analyst at Vantage RM in Houston. Investors who
are selling contracts are looking globally and ignoring what’s
going on in the U.S., he said.  “They’re wrong,” DeLaughter said in a telephone
interview. “With the U.S. crop looking as bad as it does right
now, that’s a recipe for disaster, so we’re going to see a nice
pop in prices.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in Chicago at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  