-- White House Woos Hispanic Leaders in Immigration Push
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2013-05-28T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/white-house-woos-hispanic-leaders-in-immigration-push.html
Hispanic business leaders will
descend on  Washington  this week for an all-day meeting hosted by
top administration officials as President  Barack Obama  seeks to
maintain congressional momentum for immigration legislation even
while saying little about the issue publicly.  The immigration bill is Obama’s best chance of a major
legislative victory in his second term. So, he’s been choosing
his words carefully -- or often, not at all.  Obama has taken just one immigration-focused trip this
year, traveling to  Las Vegas  to outline his views in January. In
recent appearances in Austin,  Texas , and Baltimore, he’s not
mentioned the topic at all, focusing instead on the economy.  The May 29 meeting, the inaugural event of the Hispanic
Business Leaders Forum, underscores the cautious strategy Obama
has adopted to push for his top domestic priority. While Obama
remains quiet in public, his staff is escalating a private White
House campaign to build support for the bill.  At the same time, the White House is also working to stay
close to a constituency that backed Obama by 71 percent in the
last election -- no matter what the outcome of the immigration
bill on  Capitol Hill . While immigration is certainly on the
agenda for this week’s meeting, White House officials stress
that the administration is engaging Latino executives as
national business leaders who care about the nation’s pressing
economic issues.  Potential Backlash  Obama’s approach to the immigration bill is an
acknowledgment that support among Republicans, whose votes are
crucial to passage, will be weakened if the bill is too closely
allied with the Democratic president.  “He could have just come in and said, ‘Look this is my
priority and I think I won the election by virtue of the fact
I’m for it,’” said Marshall Fitz, director of immigration
policy at the Center for American Progress. “But the political
reality that he’s reading is that he would have had this
immediate backlash.”  Seventy-five business leaders are expected to attend the
event, held in conjunction with the U.S. Hispanic Chamber of
Commerce. Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew is scheduled to
discuss the economy, domestic policy adviser Cecilia Munoz to
brief participants on the implementation of the health care law,
and Chief Technology Officer Todd Park to detail the
administration’s open data initiatives. Senior adviser  Valerie Jarrett  will offer opening remarks. Administration officials
said they expect detailed conversations about taxes, economic
competitiveness, and other fiscal issues.  Executive Attendance  Attendees will include Joe Echevarria, chief executive of
Deloitte LLP, Gustavo Arnavat, executive director of the  Inter-American Development Bank , Kimberly Casiano, president of
Casiano Communications, the largest Hispanic-owned publisher in
the U.S., and Linda Alvarado, president of Alvarado Construction
and the owner of the  Colorado  Rockies baseball team.  The wide-ranging group and the schedule go beyond just
another meeting of supporters eager to push the revamp of
immigration laws, which the president has largely left in the
hands of allies on Capitol Hill -- at their request.  As a bipartisan Senate working group began drafting a bill
earlier this year, Democratic allies asked Obama to keep a low-profile on immigration legislation, warning him that strong
statements could make it impossible for Republicans to embrace a
bipartisan agreement.  No Win  “They don’t want to give the president a win,” said
Illinois Senator  Dick Durbin , in an interview on Capitol Hill
earlier this month. “That’s part of the reality of this town.”  Some supporters, though, said strategy carries significant
political risk.  The president and his team followed a similar playbook in
their push for  gun control  earlier this year. That effort ended
in defeat when the Senate voted down a stripped-down version of
Obama’s plan. Democratic supporters criticized the president’s
decision to stay quiet, saying he didn’t fight push forcefully.  “If the bill does go down he’s going to be blamed,” said
 Frank Sharry , executive director of America’s Voice, a
Washington-based immigration advocacy organization. “He was re-elected with strong support from Latino and Asian American
voters and he could be setting himself up for the accusation
that he didn’t fight hard enough.”  In an effort to stave off those claims and build backing
for the bill, White House officials have been working quietly to
shore up support.  Frequent Calls  There are near-daily calls with people and groups that have
a stake in the outcome.  On May 7, White House aides, including Munoz and Park,
hosted a roundtable with officials from 25 different business,
technology, and university groups. While the advocates pressed
for increasing the number of visas available for high-skilled
workers, White House officials pushed the groups to take their
pro-immigration message across the country, according to
attendees.  The effort reaches across departments, with lower-level
officials fanning out to events across the country promoting the
immigration overhaul. Earlier this month, Alejandro Mayorkas,
director of U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, hosted an
interactive town hall meeting about streamlining technology
visas at the University of Chicago Booth School of Business with
executives from local startups.  On May 13, Mark Doms, the undersecretary of economic
affairs at the  Department of Commerce , addressed an immigration
forum at the  St. Regis  in Aspen, Colorado, hosted by the  Aspen
Institute . He shared the stage with Ari Matusiak, the director
of private sector engagement at the White House.  Senate Vote  The president has held White House meetings with
supporters, most recently hosting Asian-American leaders on May
8 and Latinos on April 29. In those sessions, he’s urged them to
back the bill even if they had concerns about the details,
stressing the importance of a large vote in the Senate,
according to a participant who asked for anonymity to discuss
the private meeting.  The Senate Judiciary panel approved that chamber’s proposal
earlier this month and the full Senate will debate the measure
in June. A bipartisan House group has reached an agreement in
principle on its own immigration proposal and will start
preparing legislation.  The Senate legislation is similar in approach to what Obama
outlined in Las Vegas, though there are some key differences.
The Senate bill makes citizenship for undocumented immigrants
contingent on securing the U.S. border, which Obama’s plan does
not. It also doesn’t recognize same-sex couples, a proposal
Obama supports.  Administration ‘Engaged’  The White House has stressed that the president remains  in
constant contact with key lawmakers on Capitol Hill.  “A lot of work remains to be done,”  Jay Carney , the White
House press secretary told reporters this month. “We’re engaged
in this process with the Senate and monitoring very closely the
developments.”  Obama has long struggled to strike the right balance with
Congress. During his first two and a half years in office, he
was immersed in legislative wrangling, meeting quietly to
convince lawmakers to pass the health care bill, economic
stimulus package, and Wall Street regulations.  After talks to strike a debt deal with House Speaker  John Boehner  failed in 2011, Obama switched to what aides call an
“outside-in” strategy of using public rallies to pressure
lawmakers.  Guns Loss  Still, he lost on his first big initiative of his second
term: Tougher background checks for gun buyers. That measure, a
stripped-down version of the gun control package initially
proposed by the president, failed when five Democrats and 41
Republicans voted against the bill.  Supporters say the politics of immigration differ from that
of gun issues, largely because there’s more Republican support
for taking up the issue.  The November election changed the political calculus for
Republicans, who watched as 71 percent of Hispanic voters sided
with Obama. Even in the House, where immigration legislation
faces a steeper fight, the proposals have won praise from
Speaker Boehner and Representative  Paul Ryan  of  Wisconsin .  Republicans involved with the effort have praised Obama’s
approach, saying they’ve kept the president briefed on their
progress and in return he’s left them to their work of building
support for the measure in the Senate.  “He’s trying to grow the vote,” said  Senator Lindsey Graham  in an interview earlier this month on Capitol Hill. “He
has tried to give the Democrats cover and give Republicans the
space they need to get to yes.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  