-- Korean Won Snaps Two-Day Advance on Dollar Demand; Bonds Decline
-- B y   Y e w o n   K a n g
-- 2013-05-28T07:52:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/won-falls-as-korean-importers-seen-buying-dollars-bonds-decline.html
The won snapped a two-day gain amid
speculation South Korean importers bought the greenback to pay
month-end bills and as the dollar strengthened against most
Asian currencies. Government bonds declined.  The Dollar Index, which tracks the U.S. currency against
those of six major trading partners, rose on speculation the
Federal Reserve will scale back measures that have pumped cash
into markets amid signs the world’s largest economy is
improving. Foreign funds sold a net $4.4 billion of Korean
equities this year through May 27, exchange data show.  “Importers buy dollars when the won strengthens, as it did
recently,” said Hong Seok Chan, an analyst in  Seoul  at Daishin
Economic Research Institute.  The won fell 0.4 percent to 1,126.88 per dollar in Seoul,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. One-month implied
volatility, a measure of expected moves in the exchange rate
used to price options, fell nine basis points, or 0.09
percentage point, to 8.99 percent.  The Conference Board’s index of U.S. consumer sentiment
probably climbed this month to the highest level since November,
according to the median estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News.  “Asian currencies are weakening, driven by the strong
dollar as the U.S. has shown strong economic data,” said Wee-Khoon Chong, a strategist in Hong Kong at Societe Generale SA.  South Korea’s industrial production rose 0.5 percent in
April from March, the first increase this year, according to the
median estimate of 10 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
before data due May 30. The nation’s current-account surplus
increased to $4.98 billion in March from a revised $2.71 billion
in February, official data show. The Bank of  Korea  is due to
release figures for April tomorrow.  The yield on South Korea’s 2.75 percent government bonds
due March 2018 rose three basis points to 2.72 percent, prices
from Korea Exchange Inc. show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yewon Kang in Seoul at 
 ykang51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  