-- Escalating Australian LNG Costs Spur Woodside to Look Abroad
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2013-05-29T08:07:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/woodside-ceo-seeking-5-billion-investments-in-projects-globally.html
Surging costs in Australia, set to
become the world’s largest liquefied natural gas exporter by
2018, are stoking a drive by  Woodside Petroleum Ltd. (WPL) , the
nation’s second-biggest oil and gas producer, to expand overseas.  The Perth-based company, which last month scrapped an
estimated $45 billion onshore LNG project in Australia, is
looking to make investments of about $5 billion in projects
globally, Chief Executive Officer  Peter Coleman  said in an
interview in  Brisbane , where he attended a conference.  “Moving overseas is a recognition that Australia is very,
very competitive at the moment,” Coleman said yesterday, adding
that the company isn’t negotiating any acquisitions. “For
Woodside to be able to grow at the pace we need to we’ve got to
find other opportunities. They exist elsewhere.”  Australia may lose A$100 billion ($97 billion) of potential
liquefied natural gas projects to  East Africa  and North America
unless costs in the nation are reduced, the Australian Petroleum
Production & Exploration Association said this week. Woodside is
expanding overseas, including in  Israel , and lodged its interest
in April in developing a liquefied natural gas project on the
coast of British Columbia.  “What does this say about the Aussie market when the
national champion in oil and gas is going overseas?” Geoffrey
Cann, Brisbane-based national director of oil and gas consulting
at Deloitte LLP, said yesterday in an interview. “Australia has
a very significant challenge in front of it, and it’s clearly
starting to drive the oil and gas industry to hedge its bets and
exploit opportunities globally.”  Woodside fell 0.5 percent to A$36.50 in Sydney.  Leviathan Gas  The company, which has studied expansion options in the
Eastern Mediterranean region,  Southeast Asia  and the Americas,
agreed in December to pay as much as $2.3 billion for a stake in
Israel’s largest natural gas field, Leviathan. The company also
reached two exploration agreements last year off Myanmar.  “I’d like more $5 billion projects for Woodside,” Coleman
said. “When you look at the size of the company and our ability
to execute, a $5 billion equity share is a sustainable and
comfortable number for us and it also builds wealth at a good
pace.”  Woodside ditched the proposed Browse LNG project at a site
on the Western Australia coast because it was too expensive. A
new onshore Browse development would have cost about $45 billion,
JPMorgan Chase & Co. said in an April 12 report.  Near-Term Growth  “Coleman recognizes that he’s there to grow the company,
it’s just a question of time,”  John Hirjee , a Melbourne-based
energy analyst at Deutsche Bank AG, said yesterday by phone.
With Woodside now considering floating LNG technology for Browse,
“what’s lacking is near-term production growth,” he said.  Woodside is waiting for Israel’s government to outline its
gas-export policy, expected “in weeks, not months,” before it
can complete the Leviathan transaction, Coleman said. Investment
opportunities are few and far between in Australia and highly
priced, he said.  The Australian oil producer agreed to buy a 30 percent
share in the Leviathan field for an initial $696 million from
companies including Noble Energy Inc. and Delek Drilling LP.  Woodside, operator of the Pluto and North West Shelf
projects in Australia, is studying bids on fields off Myanmar
and was unsuccessful in bidding on blocks in  Brazil , Coleman
said. Opportunities to invest in oil and gas prospects in
Australia are limited, with acreage “tightly held,” he said.  “A company like Woodside has expertise developing large,
complex LNG projects, so taking that expertise and leveraging
that into other opportunities makes sense,” Andrew McManus,
vice president of energy consulting for Australasia at Wood
Mackenzie Ltd., said yesterday in an interview in Brisbane.
“For them expanding beyond Australia to grow their business is
a natural move.”  Surpassing Qatar  While Australia is forecast to surpass Qatar as the world’s
largest exporter of LNG by the end of the decade with almost
A$200 billion ($193 billion) of projects going ahead, it’s
facing increasing competition from  North America  and East Africa.  Delays and spending over-runs are endemic to Australia,
according to an April report from Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.,
which estimates that projects in Australia run from 15 percent
to 50 percent over their original cost estimates.  “One thing we’re looking at is diversifying our portfolio,
looking at that from the point of view of our cost base, and
also chasing opportunities that fit into the scale of assets
that we look for,” Coleman said. “The larger types of fields,
they simply don’t exist in Australia, it says we have to
diversify.”  Chevron, BG  BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s biggest mining company, and
rivals are also being dogged by surging costs. Producers of
everything from gold to coal are firing workers and putting
assets up for sale, as they are squeezed by unfavorable foreign
exchange rates, lower prices and higher labor costs.  Chevron Corp. said in December that the cost of its Gorgon
LNG venture jumped 21 percent to A$52 billion on local currency
gains and higher labor expenses. BG Group Plc, operator of one
of three LNG projects under construction in Queensland state,
said last year the cost of its venture rose 36 percent to $20.4
billion because of increases in the local currency, rising labor
and material costs and higher regulatory expenses.  “You don’t want to get locked into one place,” Coleman
said. “While  Australia  is advantageous for us in many aspects,
we need to be able to continue to invest through the entire
investment cycle. We need to have other options, so moving out
of Australia we’re chasing the rocks, and it diversifies our
cost base and cost structure as well.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  