-- WTI Fluctuates Near One-Week High as Stockpiles Seen Shrinking
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2013-05-29T06:59:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/wti-crude-trades-near-one-week-high-as-stockpiles-seen-shrinking.html
West Texas Intermediate swung between
gains and losses near the highest price in a week before data
that may show U.S. crude stockpiles shrank. OPEC will probably
keep its output quota unchanged this week.  Futures were little changed in New York after snapping a
four-day drop yesterday as U.S.  consumer confidence  rose to the
highest in five years. An Energy Information Administration
report tomorrow may show crude supplies slid for a third week,
the longest run of declines this year, according to a Bloomberg
News survey. The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
will maintain its production quota at 30 million barrels a day
on May 31 in Vienna, said two OPEC delegates who asked not to be
identified because the decision isn’t yet final.  “We’ll see what the inventory reports look like during the
week and that will tell us just how the U.S. consumer is really
traveling,” said David Lennox, a resource analyst at Fat
Prophets in Sydney. “The market is also likely to focus on the
upcoming OPEC meeting and the early noise coming from there is
that there will be no change.”  WTI for July delivery was at $94.63 a barrel, down 38
cents, in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange
at 2:57 p.m.  Singapore  time. The volume of all futures traded
was 32 percent below the 100-day average. The contract climbed
86 cents to $95.01 yesterday. Prices are up 1.2 percent this
month after a 3.9 percent loss in April.  Crude Stockpiles  Brent for July settlement was down 24 cents at $103.99 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
European benchmark grade was at a premium of $9.36 to WTI
futures. The spread was $9.22 yesterday, the widest based on
closing prices since May 15.  “Oil is likely to stay quite steady,” said Victor Shum,
the vice-president at IHS Energy Insight, a consultant in
Singapore. “If U.S. inventories turn out to be falling, then
that should help support pricing.”  U.S. crude stockpiles probably fell  750,000 barrels  last
week as refineries bolstered output of gasoline before Memorial
Day, the May 27 holiday that marked the start of the peak-demand
summer months, according to the median estimate of eight
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Gasoline supplies are forecast to have dropped 650,000
barrels last week, the survey shows. Distillate inventories,
including heating oil and diesel, probably increased 150,000
barrels. The EIA, the Energy Department’s statistical arm, is
scheduled to release its report tomorrow, a day later than usual
because of the Memorial Day holiday.  ‘Demand is Great’  The American Petroleum Institute in  Washington  will publish
separate inventory data today. The industry group collects
information on a voluntary basis from operators of refineries,
bulk terminals and pipelines. The government requires that
reports be filed with the EIA for its survey.  Saudi Arabia, the world’s largest crude exporter, is
content with current conditions in the oil market, according to
 Ali al-Naimi , the kingdom’s petroleum minister. “Demand is
great,” he said yesterday in Vienna.  Brent’s rebound in  London  is stalling as futures approach
technical resistance along the 50-day moving average, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. This indicator, at around $104.22
a barrel today, is close to where prices halted advances last
week. Sell orders tend to be clustered near chart-resistance
levels.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  