-- WTI Crude Rises as Consumer Confidence Climbs
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2013-05-28T19:42:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/wti-crude-rises-after-u-s-home-values-surge.html
West Texas Intermediate crude climbed
after U.S.  consumer confidence  rose to the highest level in more
than five years while home prices advanced, signs that the
economy and fuel use will grow.  Futures gained 0.9 percent and equities increased as the
Conference Board’s  index  of sentiment rose to 76.2 in May, the
strongest level since February 2008. The S&P/Case-Shiller  index 
of property values jumped in March by the most in seven years.
Saudi Arabia is content with the current oil-market balance, the
nation’s petroleum minister said before a May 31 OPEC meeting.  “You are seeing strength in many markets,” said Bob Yawger, director of the futures division at Mizuho Securities
USA Inc. in New York. “Improving data is cause for people to
extrapolate that oil demand will increase in the future.”  WTI crude for July delivery rose 86 cents to $95.01 a
barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. It was the highest
settlement since May 21. The volume of all contracts traded was
9.8 percent below the 100-day average at 3:07 p.m. Floor trading
was closed yesterday because of the Memorial Day holiday, and
yesterday’s electronic transactions were booked with today’s
trades for settlement purposes.  Brent oil for July settlement increased $1.61, or 1.6
percent, to end the session at $104.23 a barrel on the ICE
Futures Europe exchange. Volume for all contracts was 33 percent
lower than the 100-day average. The European benchmark grade
traded at a $9.22 premium to WTI, the widest since May 15.  Economic Indicators  The confidence total from the Conference Board, a New York-based private research group, exceeded the highest estimate in a
Bloomberg survey of economists. The median forecast called for
an increase to 71.2.  The S&P/Case-Shiller housing index rose 10.9 percent in
March from the same month in 2012, the biggest 12-month
expansion since 2006. It was projected to show a 10.2 percent
advance, according to the median forecast of 30 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 0.6 percent and the
Dow Jones Industrial Average increased 0.7 percent. European
stocks also advanced, with the Stoxx Europe 600 Index climbing
the most in a month.  The Bank of  Japan  can add to already unprecedented stimulus
if necessary to drive an economic revival, Koichi Hamada, the
retired Yale University professor advising Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, said in an interview. Concern that the U.S. and Japanese
central banks would scale back expansionary monetary policy
helped send WTI percent lower last week.  Stimulus Concern  “Oil continues to take its direction from the financial
markets,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and broker at
Tradition Energy in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “The concerns about
a ratcheting-back of stimulus that sent prices lower last week
seem to have evaporated.”  Oil ministers from the 12-nation Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries will meet to review the collective
production target on May 31 in Vienna. OPEC kept the output
target of 30 million barrels a day unchanged at its last meeting
in December.  “This is the best environment for the market,” Saudi
Arabian Oil Minister  Ali al-Naimi  told reporters today in
Vienna, when asked about the balance of supply and demand.
“Demand is great,” he said, as he arrived at his hotel.  OPEC will probably keep production quotas unchanged this
week, said two delegates from different member countries, who
asked not to be identified because the decision isn’t yet final.  Lifted Embargo  European Union governments gave the go-ahead for weapons
sales to the Syrian opposition yesterday, seeking to increase
pressure on Bashar al-Assad’s regime after two years of civil
war. The U.K., the prime mover behind the EU decision, said that
it wouldn’t immediately start to supply the rebels with arms and
that other economic sanctions will be prolonged by 12 months.  Russia’s Deputy Foreign Minister Sergei Ryabkov said the
move could worsen the Syrian crisis and damage prospects for
negotiations at a peace conference proposed for next month by
Russia and the U.S.  “The lifting of the EU weapons embargo on  Syria  may be
helping push prices higher today,” McGillian said. “This
raises the prospect of a further escalation of violence.”  The Middle East accounted for 33 percent of global crude
output in 2011, according to  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Statistical Review of
World Energy. Syrian oil exports, which were never among the
highest in the region, have almost completely ended. Syria
borders  Iraq , the second-biggest producer in OPEC.  Implied volatility for at-the-money WTI options expiring in
July was 21.3 percent, compared with 20.3 percent on May 24,
data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 453,732
contracts as of 3:07 p.m. It totaled 368,545 contracts May 24,
the lowest level since Dec. 31 and 36 percent below the three-month average. Open interest was 1.74 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  