-- MTY Food Surges as it Enters U.S. Burrito Market
-- B y   E r i c   L a m
-- 2013-05-28T20:37:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/mty-food-surges-as-it-enters-u-s-burrito-market.html
MTY Food Group Inc. (MTY) , a Canadian
franchiser of fast-food restaurants, jumped the most in almost
2 1/2 years after buying pita and burrito chains from Extreme
Brandz for C$45 million in its first foray into the U.S. market.  MTY, based in St. Laurent,  Quebec , rose 10 percent to
C$25.10 at 4 p.m. in Toronto, the most since December 2010. The
stock has risen 13 percent this year.  “We’re happy with the way they are expanding into the
U.S., because they’re starting small,” said Jesse Gamble, a
research analyst with Donville Kent Asset Management Inc. which
manages about C$70 million ($67.4 million) in Toronto, including
shares of MTY. “They’re not risking a lot so it’s a win-win.”  The firm has no plans to sell its existing positions in MTY
and will wait to see how the acquisitions fit into the company
when the deal closes in September before deciding whether to buy
more stock.  The deal, for the Extreme Pita, Mucho Burrito and PurBlendz
brands and assets of closely held Extreme Brandz, is the biggest
acquisition in MTY’s history and will be paid with cash and a
line of credit, the company said in a release.  “The 40 stores in the  United States  will be MTY’s first
stores on American territory. The ice is now broken,” said
Stanley Ma, chief executive officer of MTY, in a statement.  Extreme Brandz, based in Mississauga, Ontario, operates 235
Extreme Pita and more than 70 Mucho Burrito restaurants in
 Canada  and the U.S., including two company-owned storefronts for
each brand. PurBlendz is an add-on concept at about 70 Extreme
Pita locations.  System-wide sales for the most recent fiscal period for
Extreme Brandz was more than C$103 million, MTY said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Lam in Toronto at 
 elam87@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  