-- Myanmar Rejects Criticism of Two-Child Rule for Minority
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   K y a w   T h u
-- 2013-05-29T02:56:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/myanmar-rejects-criticism-of-two-child-rule-for-minority.html
Myanmar said the restoration of a
policy preventing some Muslim Rohingya from having more than two
children is family planning, dismissing criticism that it’s
evidence of oppression against the religious minority.  Authorities decided to reinforce a 1992 law in two towns,
Buthidaung and Maungdaw, because the number of Rohingya has
grown, said Win Myaing, a spokesman for the Rakhine state
government.  Human Rights Watch  called for Myanmar to revoke the
policy yesterday. Many of Myanmar’s 64 million people view the
country’s 800,000 Rohingya as illegal migrants from what is now
 Bangladesh , and refer to them as Bengali.  “The local authorities do it for socio-economic reasons of
the Bengali people,” Win Myaing said in a phone interview
yesterday. “The  United Nations  and other NGOs have been doing
family planning projects in the area for a long time.”  President Thein Sein has tried to contain violence against
Rohingya, who are denied citizenship in Myanmar, and other
Muslims in the Buddhist-majority country after allowing greater
political freedom since taking power two years ago. He met with
U.S. President  Barack Obama  in  Washington  last week and  Japan 
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe in Myanmar three days ago in an effort
to attract investment.  Fresh anti-Muslim violence broke out last night in northern
Shan state when a mob torched a mosque, religious school and 11
shops after police refused to hand over a Muslim man accused of
burning a Buddhist girl, according to Ye Htut,  Thein Sein ’s
spokesman. Nobody died in the incident, and police are taking
measures to control the situation, he said today.  Rohingya Massacre  Separately, Ye Htut declined to comment on the two-child
policy when reached by phone yesterday and referred any
questions to the Rakhine state government.  Win Myaing said local Rohingya in two nearby towns, Minbya
and Mrauk-U, have also requested family planning measures. He
declined to comment on opposition leader  Aung San Suu Kyi ’s
remarks  reported  by The Irrawaddy news service that a two-child
limit for Rohingya would be illegal and violate human rights.  At least 70 Rohingya were killed in a massacre in Mrauk-U
township on Oct. 23, including 28 children who were hacked to
death,  Human Rights Watch  said, part of violence in the region
last year that killed about 180 people and displaced more than
100,000. In March, anti-Muslim violence in central Myanmar
killed more than 40 people, displaced 20,000 others and left
about 1,400 buildings destroyed, including mosques.  Last month, a government commission investigating the
violence in Rakhine state cited  population growth  as a factor
fueling tensions between ethnic groups. While it proposed family
planning measures, it said none should be discriminatory.  ‘Not Fair’  “The government and other civil society organizations
should refrain from implementing mandatory measures which could
seem unfair and abusive,” the report said. “In addition, any
mandatory measures could be used by some elements of the Bengali
population to stir up instability.”  Kyaw Khin, secretary-general of the Myanmar Muslim National
Affairs Organization and a member of the Rakhine Investigation
Commission, said the law goes against its recommendations.  “The commission only proposed to educate the community for
family planning, not to enforce it,” he said by phone. “This
is not fair.”  New York-based  Human Rights Watch  said yesterday that the
policy violates human rights protections and endangers the
physical and mental health of women.  ‘Cruel’ Policy  “Implementation of this callous and cruel two-child policy
against the Rohingya is another example of the systematic and
wide ranging persecution of this group, who have recently been
the target of an ethnic cleansing campaign,” said Brad Adams,
 Asia  director at Human Rights Watch. “Governments who care
about reform in  Burma  need to speak out about the persecution.”  While Obama praised Myanmar’s progress after meeting with
Thein Sein on May 20, he expressed “deep concern” about
violence against ethnic and religious minorities and said abuse
of human rights “needs to stop.”  U.S. Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky
Republican and the congressional sponsor of economic sanctions
against Myanmar, said on May 21 he won’t seek their extension in
light of the former military regime’s shift toward democracy.
Obama had relaxed the sanctions last year.  During Abe’s visit, the first for a Japanese leader in 36
years, he agreed to grant Myanmar 51 billion yen ($500 million)
of development loans to build and refurbish infrastructure,
including roads, electricity and water supply. Japan also
cleared 189 billion yen in overdue charges from earlier debt and
gave 40 billion yen in direct aid.  Myanmar’s economy may grow 6.75 percent this fiscal year,
led by natural gas sales and investment as the country
modernizes its financial system, the  International Monetary Fund 
said in a statement May 22. The country, which is sandwiched
between China and  India , is among Asia’s poorest.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Kyaw Thu in Bangkok at 
 kthu1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  