-- Zoomlion Says It’s Checking Data After Report on Sales
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 2013-05-28T16:43:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-28/zoomlion-says-it-s-checking-data-after-report-on-sales.html
Zoomlion Heavy Industry Science &
Technology Co. (1157) ,  China ’s second-largest maker of construction
equipment, denied that it falsified sales as alleged in a news
report published May 27.  That article saying sales were improperly accounted for was
“distorted” and “misleading,” Zoomlion said in a Shenzhen
stock exchange filing yesterday. KPMG and one other auditor
signed off on the company’s 2012 financial report, the Changsha,
China-based company said in the statement.  Trading of Zoomlion shares in Shenzhen and Hong Kong has
been halted since Sina.com published the online article by the
Xin Kuai Bao newspaper May 27. The halt is the second time this
year that the company has done so following reports questioning
its sales data.  “Similar unsigned accusations have popped out one after
another, making it very difficult for the company to resolve at
one go,” said  Kenny Tang , general manager of AMTD Financial
Planning Ltd., an advisory company in Hong Kong.  In a separate statement to the Hong Kong stock exchange
yesterday, Zoomlion called the article’s allegations “false,
groundless and misleading,” and said it had applied to resume
trading in Hong Kong today.  In January, Zoomlion halted share trading in Hong Kong
after Ming Pao Daily cited an unsigned letter accusing the
company of exaggerating sales. The equipment maker has denied
the allegations.  Increased Scrutiny  Chinese companies’ finances have drawn increased scrutiny
after short seller  Carson Block ’s Muddy Waters LLC uncovered
irregularities including those at now-bankrupt Sino-Forest Corp.
in 2011.  Zoomlion’s Hong Kong-traded stock  fell  0.9 percent to
HK$7.92 on May 27 and has slumped 31 percent this year. The
shares in Shenzhen last traded  unchanged  at HK$7.29 on May 24
and have dropped 21 percent in 2013.  Zoomlion, 16.2 percent owned by the government of Hunan
province, makes equipment including concrete pumps, cranes and
excavators. The company will probably get financial support from
the provincial government if needed,  AMTD’s Tang said.  The construction-equipment maker and bigger  Sany Heavy
Industry Co. (600031)  face a drop in orders as China’s slowing economic
growth and government curbs on the property market sap demand.
Zoomlion’s first-quarter profit plummeted 72 percent, the
company said last month.  Sales Increase  Following the Ming Pao report in January, Chairman Zhan Chunxin said sales increased last year after the company offered
new products and hired more people.  China’s economic growth unexpectedly slowed to 7.7 percent
in the first quarter, while remaining above the government’s
full-year target of 7.5 percent. Data this month on fixed-asset
investment and factory production missed forecasts and gauges of
manufacturing and service industries declined. The economy
expanded 7.8 percent in 2012, the slowest pace in 13 years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmine Wang in Hong Kong at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  