-- M&S Infringed Interflora Trademark Over Online Ads, Judge Rules
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2013-05-21T10:56:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/m-s-infringed-interflora-trademark-over-online-ads-judge-rules.html
Marks & Spencer Group Plc (MKS) , the U.K.’s
largest clothing retailer, lost a court ruling in London over
whether it used Interflora Group Ltd.’s trademarked terms to
trigger advertisements on  search engines .  Judge Richard Arnold ruled today that the London-based
retailer can’t use the keywords, which include Interflora and
Interflora Delivery, to drive customers to its website through
advertisements on Google Inc.’s search engine.  “A significant proportion of the consumers who searched
for ‘interflora’ and the other signs, and then clicked on M&S’s
advertisements displayed in response to those searches, were led
to believe, incorrectly, that M&S’s flower delivery service was
part of the Interflora network,” the judge said in his written
ruling.  Interflora sued M&S in 2008 for violating its trademark
rights in the U.K. In 2009, the court sent the case to the
European Union’s Court of Justice for guidance on how to
interpret the bloc’s trademark rules in Internet search cases.
The EU’s top tribunal passed the case back to the U.K. for a
final decision in 2011.  M&S is disappointed by the judgment and is considering its
options, Emma Johnson, a spokeswoman for the retailer, said in
an e-mailed statement.  “Keyword advertising is a very powerful tool and so it is
vital for consumer protection that Internet search results take
consumers directly to the brands they are looking for,” Rhys
Hughes, Interflora’s president, said in an e-mailed statement.  The U.K. flower delivery market was worth 2.2 billion
pounds ($3.34 billion) a year from 2008 to 2012, Arnold said in
his ruling.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in  London  at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  