-- M&S Seeks to Move Beyond Recovery With Reduced Spending Plan
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2013-05-21T16:27:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/m-s-seeks-to-move-beyond-recovery-with-reduced-spending-plan.html
Marks & Spencer Group Plc (MKS) , the U.K.’s
largest clothing retailer, said it will spend less on bringing
the business up to speed with competitors as it moves beyond
recovery and places greater emphasis on rewarding shareholders.  Capital spending  this year will be 775 million pounds ($1.2
billion), the London-based company said today, less than the 850
million pounds it had previously envisaged. From next year, the
amount will drop to 550 million pounds, it said as it promised
to boost margins following a second year of declining profit.  Chief Executive Officer  Marc Bolland  indicated that he’s
ready to move the business to a new phase of development after
spending the first three years of his tenure addressing decades
of underinvestment that saw M&S fall behind rivals in areas such
as online retailing. M&S shares extended recent gains today
after hitting a five-year high last week as analysts reacted
positively to previews of a revamped fashion range.  “It’s all about autumn and winter,” said  John Stevenson ,
an analyst at Peel Hunt in  London  with a hold recommendation on
the stock. Bolland needs to demonstrate that the new clothing
ranges can lead to improved sales, he said.  “It’s a big job and a big job comes with pressure,” the
CEO said on a call with journalists today.  Marks & Spencer rose 6.2 percent to 467.9 pence in London
trading, the highest closing price since Jan. 8, 2008.  Margin Outlook  M&S said it expects “a material improvement” in  cash flow 
as a result of the reduced spending plan “and will at this
point evaluate future uses of cash, with a view to delivering
improved shareholder returns.”  Before today, the retailer had targeted annual capital
expenditure beyond this year of 600 million pounds.  The company today predicted that gross profit as a
percentage of sales will widen by 0.3 percentage points to 0.5
percentage points in both the clothing and food businesses this
year. That’s ahead of last year’s 0.1 percentage-point increase
and is a result of fewer markdowns and more full-priced sales,
Chief Financial Officer Alan Stewart said on a conference call.  M&S unveiled its fall-winter fashion range last week, which
Bolland said was a “step in the right direction” with an
emphasis on improved quality and styles. It has also opened a
new e-commerce distribution center to speed up delivery times.  Online Orders  “It will be a step-by-step approach and that’s also how we
see results evolving,” the CEO said today of the impact that
new clothing ranges are likely to have on sales.  Earlier this month, the retailer said it plans faster
delivery of online orders and will make products more available
as it targets 1 billion pounds of e-commerce sales.  M&S has no immediate plans to follow William Morrison
Supermarkets Plc and start an online offering for its food
business, Bolland said. Morrison last week announced a tie-up
with online grocer  Ocado Group Plc (OCDO)  to start Web-based delivery.  “It’s important to stick to our strengths,” the CEO said.
About 25 percent of M&S food products are new each year, four
times the rate of rival supermarkets, the CEO said.  Business in the first seven weeks of the new financial year
has been “in line” with expectations, M&S said today.  Results for the year ended March 30 showed a 5.8 percent
drop in so-called underlying profit before tax to 665.2 million
pounds. That compared with the average estimate of 663.3 million
pounds from 16 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Underlying profit excludes gains and losses on property
disposals, impairment charges and one-time pension costs.  The reduced earnings prompted  Fitch Ratings  to cut M&S’s
credit rating one level to BBB-, the lowest on its 10-step
investment-grade scale.  Bangladesh Accord  M&S also announced today that marketing director Steve Sharp will retire in February after nine years in the role and
will step down from the board on July 9. Sharp will be replaced
on the board by Patrick Bousquet-Chavanne, who joined the
retailer last year from Estee Lauder Cos.  Also today, M&S said all 66 of the factories it uses in
Bangladesh are audited including assessing good working
conditions, limits to overtime and fair pay rates. The retailer
this month agreed to sign the Bangladesh fire and safety accord
to improve factory standards following a series of industrial
disasters in the Asian nation.  “It’s important for  Bangladesh  to keep this industry
running” Bolland said. M&S doesn’t plan to exit the market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  