-- LA Votes on Shrinking Medical Pot Shops, Boosting Taxes
-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 2013-05-21T02:20:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/la-votes-on-shrinking-medical-pot-shops-boosting-taxes.html
Los Angeles , which has so many
medical-marijuana shops that officials have lost count, is
asking voters to set limits and raise taxes on cannabis.  The  measures  on the ballot today include a city plan to
limit the number of clinics to about 135, and another offered by
the marijuana industry that would allow unlimited dispensaries.
A third has been abandoned by its industry backers.  “Each of these three ballot measures start with the
premise that there will be dispensaries in the city,” Carmen Trutanich, Los Angeles’s city attorney, said in an interview.  The nation’s second-largest city is among California
municipalities that are struggling to restrict the number of pot
shops. Starting in 2007, more than 850 medical-marijuana
businesses opened, closed and reopened shops and commercial-growing operations in Los Angeles without zoning approval,
according to the city plan.  “It has been very difficult for the city to get an
accurate number on the number of dispensaries at any given time
due to the high rate of turnover,” Frank Mateljan, a spokesman
for the city attorney’s office, said by e-mail. “At best guess,
we believe there are hundreds operating in the city at any given
time.”  First Legalized  In  California , the first state to legalize medical
marijuana use in 1996, some cities have banned marijuana
storefronts, labeling them a public nuisance and a magnet for
crime. Los Angeles last year adopted an ordinance banning the
businesses, with limited exceptions, only to repeal it after
objections from the industry.  Proposition D , the city’s plan, caps the number of
dispensaries to the 135 that opened before a 2007 moratorium
imposed by the city. The measure also would increase the city
tax on the businesses to $60 from $50 for each $1,000 of gross
sales receipts.  The city got $2.5 million in business taxes from medical-marijuana collectives in 2012, according to  Miguel Santana , city
administrative officer.  Initiative Ordinance F would allow unlimited dispensaries,
would increase their taxes to $60 from $50 on each $1,000 of
gross receipts, bar them from locating within 1,000 feet of a
school and require them to file an annual audit of their
operations with the city controller.  ‘Fumbling Issue’  “Los Angeles has unsuccessfully spent years fumbling the
issue of medical-marijuana collective regulation,” supporters
said in the ballot. “It is time the people take control of the
situation and pass strict but reasonable regulation.”  Initiative Ordinance E, which would ban newer dispensaries
that opened since the 2007 moratorium, has been abandoned by the
industry and union groups who offered it. Supporters have
shifted their support to the city’s proposal, said Kris Hermes,
a spokesman for  Americans for Safe Access , an Oakland,
California-based medical-marijuana advocacy group that was one
the plan’s initial backers.  The city’s plan “was so similar to our measure it seemed
counterproductive to be competing with the city’s initiative,”
he said. “The procedures are such that you can’t remove the
measure from the ballot once it’s qualified.”  Voters also will chose between Wendy Greuel, the city’s
controller, and City Councilman Eric Garcetti to succeed  Antonio Villaraigosa  as mayor.  Villaraigosa hasn’t taken a position on the marijuana
measures, said Amanda Parsons, his spokeswoman. He supported
last year’s ordinance banning clinics.  Preserve Access  “This ordinance is our best option to preserve access to
medical marijuana for patients while protecting public safety
and quality of life for all Angelenos,” the mayor said in a
statement last year.  It’s not unusual for a ballot to have two measures on the
same topic, usually the main initiative and a counter proposal,
said John Matsusaka, executive director of the Initiative &
Referendum Institute at the University of  Southern California ,
in Los Angeles.  “But having three is rare,” he said in an e-mailed
response to questions. “These situations create challenges for
voters because of uncertainty about what happens if more than
one measure receives 51 percent in favor.”  A marijuana measure would have to get more than 50 percent
of the vote to pass, said Kimberly Briggs, a spokeswoman for the
Los Angeles city clerk’s election division. If all three get
more than 50 percent, the one that receives the most votes
prevails, she said.  If none passes, the city will have to come up with a
policy, whether it’s going to be a ban or restrictions on the
numbers of pot shops, said Trutanich, the city attorney, who is
running for re-election.  Court Ruling  California cities can block medical-marijuana dispensaries
from setting up shop within their borders, the San Francisco-based California Supreme Court said in a May 6 decision.  Los Angeles isn’t inclined to ban marijuana shops in light
of the ruling, Trutanich said.  “The majority of the council would like to have people who
are medical-marijuana patients be able to obtain the medicine
that the need in order to alleviate whatever pain or ailment
that they have,” Trutanich said. “The question becomes: How
best do you accomplish that?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Vekshin in  San Francisco  at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman in  New York  at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 