-- Huaneng Discount Widens as Solars Surge: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-05-21T20:43:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/adrs-slide-on-slowdown-as-solars-surge-china-overnight.html
Chinese stocks retreated in New York
from the highest level in three months, led by  Huaneng Power
International Inc. (902) , as concern increased over a slowdown in
Asia’s largest economy after UBS AG cut its growth forecast.  The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Chinese stocks in the U.S. sank 1 percent to 96.03 yesterday.
Huaneng tumbled to trade at the widest discount to Hong Kong
shares since 2011 after Credit Suisse Group AG said China’s
proposed ban on coal imports will likely hit the power producer
hardest.  Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corp. (981)  slid
the most in three months, while  Yingli Green Energy Holding Co. (YGE) 
surged as much as 56 percent on higher shipment forecasts.  UBS analysts yesterday cut the growth estimate for China to
7.7 percent in 2013 from 8 percent, saying credit expansion
hasn’t prodded faster growth and the government has more
tolerance for economic deceleration to focus on reforms.
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Bank of America Corp. reduced their
projections to 7.6 percent last week. The China-US gauge has
lost 3.2 percent in 2013, compared with a 17 percent jump in the
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. (SPX)   “Growth continues to slow, but the government can’t
stimulate growth by just credit, which has become less and less
effective and also stirs up bigger and bigger problems,” Tony Hann, head of emerging-market equities at Blackfriars Asset
Management Ltd., said by phone from  London . “It may take as
much as a year for the market to understand what China’s new
leadership is aiming for.”  ETF Retreats  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund (FXI) , the largest Chinese
 exchange-traded fund  in the U.S., dropped 0.7 percent in New
York to $38.12 in its first retreat in three days. The S&P 500
added 0.2 percent to 1,669.16 as Federal Reserve Bank of St.
Louis President James Bullard said the central bank should
continue its bond buying.  HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics are due to release a
preliminary reading for  China  manufacturing this month tomorrow.
The index was probably at 50.4, unchanged from 50.4 a month
earlier, according to the median estimate of 12 analysts in a
Bloomberg survey. A reading above 50 indicates expansion.  American depositary receipts of Huaneng dropped 9 percent
to $42.58, the biggest decline since 2008. Its ADRs, each
representing 40 underlying shares in the Beijing-based company,
traded 4.6 percent  below  its stock in Hong Kong, the widest
discount since November 2011.  Huaneng, the biggest electricity producer in China, could
be the hardest hit by a proposed imports curb because 29 percent
of its coal is bought from overseas, Credit Suisse analyst Edwin
Pang wrote in a note dated May 20.  Coal Imports  China is considering a ban on imports of some lower-quality
thermal coal grades, the Economic Information Daily reported May
16, citing an announcement at a conference held by government
agencies including the National Development and Reform
Commission.  The proposed measure is likely to boost domestic benchmark
prices by as much as 8 percent as supplies drop, Luther Lu, a
chief market analyst at Fenwei Energy Consulting Corp. in
Taiyuan, said by phone May 20.  Semiconductor, a circuit foundry based in  Shanghai , dropped
5.6 percent to $4.03, the steepest slump since Feb. 19.
 Spreadtrum Communications Inc. (SPRD) , a mobile-chip designer also
based in Shanghai, lost 4.9 percent to $17.82, the lowest level
since March.  Shipments from Yingli, the world’s largest solar-panel
maker, will decline about 6 percent to 7 percent in the first
quarter from the prior three months, compared with the company’s
March forecast for a slump in the “low to mid-teen
percentage,” according to a statement by the Baoding, China-based company yesterday.  Solar Talks  Yingli, which is scheduled to report first-quarter
financial results on May 30, jumped 15 percent to $3.55 as
trading volume surged to almost 15 times the daily average over
the past three months.  Suntech Power Holdings Co. (STP) , which was forced into
bankruptcy in March after defaulting on a $541 million bond
payment, rallied 53 percent to $1.28, the biggest jump on
record.  The U.S. is engaged with the European Union and China in
preliminary talks focused on setting a quota on Chinese solar-energy equipment exports, in exchange for suspending U.S. duties
on the goods, according to two people familiar with the U.S.
position who asked not to be identified to discuss private
deliberations.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  of domestic Chinese shares
added 0.2 percent to 2,305.11, extending a five-day rally that
is the longest winning stretch in three months. The  Hang Seng
China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  in Hong Kong slipped 0.9 percent to
11,083.23, after jumping the most in a week on May 20.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  