-- Agility Sees Profit Rising This Year on Emerging Markets Focus
-- B y   F i o n a   M a c D o n a l d
-- 2013-05-21T10:01:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/agility-sees-profit-rising-this-year-on-emerging-markets-focus.html
Agility’s chairman Tarek Sultan said
profit at the logistics company will probably rise this year,
helped by new contracts in emerging countries.  The company is targeting more than $300 million in  earnings 
before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization this year,
Sultan said in an interview yesterday at Agility’s headquarters
in  Kuwait . Ebitda was about $277 million last year.  “This should be a relatively good year,” said Sultan, who
is also the company’s managing director. “2013 has started off
on the right track, business is doing well.”  Agility has shifted away from U.S. government contracts and
expanded in developing nations since the end of 2009, when it
was indicted in the U.S. on allegations it overcharged the
American military on a contract to supply food for troops in
Kuwait and  Iraq .  The new strategy is paying off, according to Sultan. Profit
surged 46 percent in the first quarter. The stock has gained
about 43 percent so far this year.  The U.S. legal case is “progressing, several motions are
currently pending before the court,” Sultan said. “We can’t
predict when the case will be resolved, however we do welcome
the opportunity to clear our name.”  Agility, which is about 20 percent-owned by Kuwait’s state
pension fund, generated as much as 30 percent of its revenue
from U.S. government contracts before 2009. Sales are now
“primarily from commercial sources,” according to Sultan.  First Focus  The  company , which operates in countries ranging from  India 
to  Brazil , last month won a United Nations contract in Darfur
valued at $190 million. In March, it won an estimated $80
million contract from  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  to provide transport
services for the Majnoon oil field in Iraq, where business is
growing, according to Sultan.  “Our first focus is continuing to grow our logistics
business organically,” he said. “The  emerging markets , where
we have a very strong platform, are growing three times faster
than the developed economies.”  Agility is also open to investing in growing its
infrastructure business, Sultan said. The company has almost no
debt and doesn’t see any need to issue bonds though “this could
change in the future,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fiona MacDonald in Kuwait at 
 fmacdonald4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  