-- Thailand Can Ease Monetary Policy If Economy Slows, Prasarn Says
-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 2013-05-21T06:36:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/thailand-can-ease-monetary-policy-if-economy-slows-prasarn-says.html
Bank of  Thailand  Governor Prasarn Trairatvorakul said  monetary policy  could be eased if the
economy loses momentum, signaling he may cut  interest rates  next
week after slower-than-estimated growth last quarter.  “Our monetary policy aim is to maintain equilibrium in the
economy,” Prasarn told reporters in Bangkok today. “If we see
that economic momentum slows, we can ease monetary policy to
take care of that.”  The government yesterday lowered its full-year growth
forecast after the economy expanded 5.3 percent in the first
quarter from a year earlier, less than economists estimated.
Arkhom Termpittayapaisith, secretary-general of the state
planning agency, said he is “worried about the second
quarter,” adding that monetary policy could address the
slowdown and also help curb inflows that have boosted the baht.  The baht rose 0.3 percent to 29.72 per dollar as of 1:25
p.m. in Bangkok, after earlier climbing to its highest level in
two weeks as concerns that the government will impose curbs on
capital inflows abated. The currency strengthened last month to
its highest level since July 1997, and is the best performer in
 Asia  this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  While the baht may be volatile amid global uncertainties,
the central bank is ready to intervene if needed, Prasarn said,
adding that the Bank of Thailand will analyze first-quarter data
before deciding on the policy rate.  The monetary policy committee is scheduled to meet on May
29. It has held the  key rate  at 2.75 percent since a 25-basis-point reduction in October, citing risks to the  nation’s
financial stability.  Thailand’s state agency yesterday lowered its full-year
forecast for gross domestic product to 4.2 percent to 5.2
percent from 4.5 percent to 5.5 percent. It also cut its  export 
growth target for the year to 7.6 percent from 11 percent.  Finance Minister Kittiratt Na-Ranong, who has led calls for
lower rates, yesterday said the government has no plans to issue
“abnormal measures” to stimulate the economy, even as it is
concerned about the first-quarter numbers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  