-- Aircraft Carrier’s Cost Draws U.S. Lawmakers’ Concerns
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-05-21T20:45:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/aircraft-carrier-s-cost-draws-u-s-lawmakers-concerns.html
A House panel expressed concern that
costs for the U.S. Navy’s newest  aircraft carrier  continue to
increase, even as lawmakers accepted the service’s request for a
$1.1 billion increase in a cost cap imposed by Congress.  The House Armed Services Committee’s seapower panel today
said it accepted the Navy’s $1.7 billion proposal for new
carriers in the fiscal year that begins Oct. 1 as well as an
increase in the maximum total cost of the first vessel, the
Gerald R. Ford, to $12.9 billion from $11.8 billion.  The panel “remains concerned about the continued
escalation in costs associated” with the Ford “and negative
consequences associated with this continued escalation on the
entirety of the ship construction accounts,” members said in a
statement outlining their decisions on the annual defense
authorization measure.  Even before the Navy’s latest request for leeway to spend
more, the ship being built by Huntington Ingalls Industries Inc.
has become the most expensive U.S. warship. It’s the first of
three planned carriers to be built in a program projected by the
Navy to cost $42.5 billion.  While the cost cap allows for increases to keep up with
inflation, the nonpartisan  Congressional Research Service 
estimates the carrier will cost as much as $600 million more
than the Navy’s latest estimate.  Thinner Steel  The cost increase for the Ford results, in part, from
“first of class” design and technology, such as the initial
use of steel that’s thinner than required and caused delays in
material procurement, manufacturing and assembly, according to
the Naval Sea Systems Command.  Huntington Ingalls, based in  Newport News ,  Virginia , missed
its 2012 target for reducing costs on the Ford, falling short of
getting 86 cents of planned work accomplished for every dollar
spent, in part because of late component deliveries from
subcontractors.  The $12.9 billion includes construction, government
furnished equipment needed to run the vessel and launch aircraft
and $3.3 billion in one-time design funding applicable to the
entire class, the Navy said.  A continuing rise in the carrier’s cost “is
unsustainable,” the House panel’s members said, citing the
Navy’s 30-year shipbuilding plan, which already calls for an
increase in spending to an average of $15.4 billion a year from
$10.9 billion next year, partly to replace Ohio-class ballistic
missile submarines.  Chairman’s State  The criticism is unusual because the Ford is being built in
Virginia, the home state of the seapower subcommittee’s
chairman, Republican Representative Randy Forbes.  “We have laid the groundwork to ask difficult questions of
the Navy about the cost overruns on the Ford-class aircraft
carrier,” Forbes said in a statement.  In the Senate, Senator  John McCain , an  Arizona  Republican,
has been a persistent critic of the carrier’s cost increases.  McCain is the top Republican on the Senate Armed Services
Committee’s seapower panel, which will consider its version of
the defense bill next month. McCain requested a Government
Accountability Office review of the program, which is due to be
published this year.  The House subcommittee released an outline of its proposal
for the naval elements of the defense authorization bill today,
24 hours before meeting to approve it, as is the practice of the
Armed Services panels. The full committee is scheduled to act on
the subcommittee proposal June 5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  