-- America Movil Video Service Wins Reprieve as Meeting Postponed
-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2013-05-22T18:12:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/america-movil-s-online-video-needs-urgent-review-regulators-say.html
America Movil  SAB avoided a showdown
with Mexican officials over its online-video service as
telecommunications regulators who had called for its urgent
scrutiny voted to postpone a meeting.  Since a recently passed law will soon replace the Federal
Telecommunications Commission with a new regulatory body, the
agency’s board voted unanimously to call off today’s gathering,
it said in a  statement . The commission will study how best to
use its time before it ceases to exist, it said.  The decision takes the heat off of America Movil after
three of the four commissioners said its Internet broadcasts
should be examined swiftly, according to a letter obtained by
 Bloomberg News . The company, banned from offering television
under its license, shows soccer games, auto races and news shows
through its Uno TV  website , drawing the ire of broadcasters.  “We request that these subjects be incorporated into the
agenda at the commission’s next board meeting,” the
commissioners, Gonzalo Martinez Pous, Jose Luis Peralta and
Alexis Milo, said in the letter. They didn’t indicate what
position they took on the legal question.  Grupo Televisa SAB (TLEVICPO)  has called for regulators to examine Uno
TV, and TV Azteca SAB filed a complaint about the site to the
Federal Telecommunications Commission in 2011.  Slim gained control of Mexico’s state-owned landline-phone
monopoly, Telmex, in 1990 and folded it into America Movil, his
mobile-phone carrier, two decades later. Under the terms of the
privatization, Slim agreed not to offer TV over the phone lines.  Video Competition  That prohibition came back to haunt Slim in 2006, when the
government began allowing cable-TV companies to offer phone
service. Telmex started losing customers to its new rivals,
which could offer a bundle of services. The company’s attempts
to alter its license were rejected by regulators, who said it
hadn’t opened itself up enough to competition.  Video also has become an increasingly important part of
America Movil’s business outside of  Mexico : Its satellite and
cable services in  Brazil ,  Colombia  and other countries now
represent 7.3 percent of sales.  The new telecommunications law, passed last month by
Mexico’s congress, will change the landscape of the industry,
providing the new regulatory body with more tools to boost
competition. America Movil has said the new rules will also give
it the opportunity to provide TV service.  New Rules  Still, the current telecommunications agency’s delays in
taking up the matter have left commissioners unable to weigh in
on a subject that may not be immediately addressed by their
replacements, who will have to spend time implementing dozens of
new rules.  The bill still requires the signature of President Enrique Pena Nieto, which is “imminent,” the telecommunications agency
said in today’s statement. Pena Nieto has said he backs the
legislation.  The only acting commissioner who didn’t sign the letter was
Mony de Swaan, the agency’s president. A fifth commissioner,
Ernesto Gil Elorduy, submitted his resignation last month to
seek a congressional seat.  The commissioners had been scheduled to discuss Uno TV on
Feb. 6, along with a motion by Telmex to recuse Peralta from the
matter, according to the letter. It was postponed so that staff
members could add more information to the case.  Martinez Pous and Milo declined to comment, and Peralta and
de Swaan didn’t respond to e-mail messages. America Movil,
Televisa and TV Azteca officials had no immediate comment.  America Movil  fell  0.3 percent to 12.53 pesos at 1:05 p.m.
in Mexico City. The shares had dropped 16 percent this year
through yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in  New York  at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  