-- Gordhan Says Compromise Needed to End S. Africa Mine Feud
-- B y   J a c o   V i s s e r   a n d   A n t o n y   S g u a z z i n
-- 2013-05-22T16:52:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/amplats-unions-agree-on-steps-to-mitigate-job-cuts.html
South African Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said companies, the government and labor unions need to
end disputes that are halting mines and have pushed the rand to
a four-year low against the dollar.  “This is going to require quite spectacular leadership
from all sides, not just from the labor unions,” Gordhan said
on Johannesburg-based state-owned SAFM radio today, after the
world’s biggest platinum producer agreed to job talks and rubber
bullets were fired at striking chrome miners. “It requires a
shift, it requires bold leadership, it requires a give and take
by everyone concerned, not in the interests of industry only but
also in the interests of the country.”  Companies in the country with the largest known platinum
reserves are struggling for profit as metal prices decline and
costs outpace inflation, which was 5.9 percent last month. Union
rivalry has led to the deaths of workers, disrupted mines and
helped make the rand the worst performer among emerging-market
currencies against the dollar this year. In the gold and coal
industries, a union this week asked for wage increases of as
much as 61 percent for entry-level miners.  Anglo American Platinum Ltd. (AMS)  will resume talks with unions
and the government through a state mediator over job cuts on May
24 after agreeing on steps to preserve employment, the minerals
ministry said yesterday. On May 10, the company said it planned
to eliminate about 6,000 jobs at mines in the nation, less than
half the number proposed in January, as it seeks to idle three
shafts and reduce annual platinum output by 350,000 ounces.  No Agreement  The assassination of an Association of Mineworkers and
Construction Union official on May 11 near the 13-shaft Marikana
operation of  Lonmin Plc (LMI) , the third-largest platinum producer,
and a dispute over union recognition sparked fears of renewed
labor unrest in the contintent’s largest economy when workers
refused to go underground for two days last week.  Lonmin today said no agreement has been reached with the
AMCU, its biggest union, on forming a new recognition pact,
which would give the organization more rights. The AMCU wants
Lonmin to close the office of the  National Union of Mineworkers ,
which previously spoke for the majority of employees and now has
the support of 30 percent, the company said.  The AMCU, which represents 70 percent of lower-level
workers at Lonmin, wants a threshold for recognition of 30
percent, while the company is seeking 10 percent. Lonmin on May
9 said the union referred talks on the agreement to  South
Africa ’s Commission for Conciliation, Mediation and Arbitration.  Arbitration Move  “The senior commissioners of the CCMA issued a certificate
of non-resolution” and will meet again tomorrow, Lonmin said in
a statement. “If no agreement can be reached at that meeting,
the process will then move to formal arbitration.”  Seven people, including two shot by rubber bullets, were
injured in clashes between workers and security personnel over
annual performance-related payments at  Lanxess AG (LXS) ’s chrome unit
near Rustenburg in North West province yesterday.  The Leverkusen, Germany-based company today said it
presented “a fair offer” to the National Union of Mineworkers’
representatives, who are speaking on behalf of about 470
employees who started an illegal strike on May 16. The union
rejected the offer and the stoppage continues, spokeswoman
Sibonile Dube said by phone.  The rand weakened for a 10th day against the dollar, losing
0.1 percent to 9.5518 by 6:22 p.m. in Johannesburg, extending
its drop this year to 11 percent, the most among emerging-market
currencies, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Wage Demands  This week, the NUM asked the biggest gold and coal
producers to increase wages by as much as 61 percent.  “I expected demands to be steep but these demands are
incredibly steep,” Elize Strydom, the chief negotiator for the
Chamber of Mines, the body through which wage talks take place,
told Johannesburg-based Business Day newspaper.  Amplats, as  Anglo American Plc (AAL) ’s platinum unit is known, in
January put its plans to fire as many as 14,000 workers on hold
after objections from the government and labor unions, including
a threat by Susan Shabangu, the mines minister, to revoke some
of its licenses. Amplats had intended to cut 7 percent of global
output to help return to profitability.  “Parties have agreed on measures and mitigation plans that
will preserve jobs,” the Department of Mineral Resources said
in an e-mailed statement yesterday. Talks with the CCMA will
start later this week, it said.  Centralized Talks  Amplats shares closed 3.1 percent higher at 297.51 rand in
Johannesburg, paring the drop this year to 33 percent. Lonmin
was  unchanged  at 270.40 pence in  London . Platinum rose 0.6
percent to $1,472.40 an ounce, paring its drop this year to 4.4
percent.  Platinum producers are seeking to centralize wage talks
through the Chamber of Mines, as is done in the gold and coal
industries. The AMCU, now the biggest union in platinum, doesn’t
want to participate in such combined negotiations.  “We do want to appeal to citizens not to despair and throw
hands into the air on the basis on challenges we are facing,”
Labor Minister Mildred Oliphant told lawmakers in  Cape Town 
today. “Talks are continuing about the character of the new
centralized bargaining arrangement in the platinum sector.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jaco Visser in Johannesburg at 
 avisser3@bloomberg.net ;
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  