-- Andy Murray Withdraws From French Open With Back Injury
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2013-05-22T13:46:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/andy-murray-withdraws-from-french-open-tennis-because-of-injury.html
U.S. Open champion Andy Murray
withdrew from next week’s French Open because of a back injury,
the first tennis major he’ll miss since 2007. Juan Martin  Del Potro  also pulled out.  “It’s a really tough decision and I love playing in Paris
but, after seeking medical advice, I am not fit to compete,”
second-ranked Murray said in a statement e-mailed by his
management company last night. “Now my complete focus is on
getting back on the court as soon as possible.”  Murray’s press agent Matt Gentry said in an e-mail that the
Scotland-born player pulled out because of a lower-back injury
that also forced him to retire from his second-round match
against Marcel Granollers of Spain at the Italian Open last
week. Murray, 26, said after the match that he’d been struggling
with a lower-back issue since 2011 and that playing on clay made
it worse because the slow surface requires more back rotation.  The French Open, the only clay-court major, starts May 26
at Roland Garros in Paris.  Murray last missed a Grand Slam tournament when a wrist
tendon injury forced him to pull out of the 2007 French Open and
Wimbledon. His best result in Paris was a semifinal spot in
2011.  Murray isn’t the only top 10 player missing in Paris. Juan Martin Del Potro, the world No. 7 from Argentina, pulled out
with a continuing viral condition, the country’s La Nacion
newspaper reported the former U.S. Open champion as saying.
“It’s a hard blow, these are the tournaments you dream of
winning,” said Del Potro, who reached the Paris semifinal in
2009.  Baker, Fish Out  Americans Brian Baker and Mardy Fish also won’t be
competing, French Open organizers said earlier today. Fish, a
former top 10 player who’s dropped to No. 41, struggled with
heart problems last season. Baker, ranked 73rd, hasn’t recovered
enough from a knee operation.  Murray had his most successful season in 2012, making the
Wimbledon final before winning the singles gold medal at the
London Olympics. He then ended a 76-year wait for a male British
Grand Slam singles champion when he won the U.S. Open.  Murray, a two-time tournament winner this season, was
called a “drama queen” by Britain’s most recent Wimbledon
singles champion, 1977 women’s winner Virginia Wade, after his
second-round win in Paris last year. Murray limped around the
court against  Finland ’s Jarkko Nieminen, holding his back, and
served at half speed.  Murray later said he’d had back spasms during the night and
was close to quitting the match. He also disclosed he’d had
eight painkilling injections in his back before the tournament.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  