-- Apple’s Taxes Expose the Rotten U.S. Code
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-05-21T22:35:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/apple-s-taxes-expose-the-rotten-u-s-code.html
When Apple Inc.’s chief executive
officer,  Tim Cook , bragged to a U.S. Senate subcommittee this
week about his company’s culture of innovation, he probably
hoped people would think of Apple’s gadgets, not its tax
strategies.  That seems unlikely, at least for now. Apple has opened a
new front in the battle between corporations that aggressively
avoid U.S. taxes and lawmakers who want to collect more of them.
In so doing, Apple has made the case for why Congress must
update the tax code.  The company not only has used loopholes to sidestep U.S.
taxes on $44 billion in offshore income from 2009 through 2012,
according to the subcommittee, but also has three Irish
subsidiaries that claim to have no residence -- anywhere -- for
tax purposes. Senator  Carl Levin , the Michigan Democrat who is
chairman of the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations,
which  looked into  Apple’s tax-avoidance strategies, calls this
alchemy. We’re inclined to agree.  The case of Apple is part of a broader trend in which
companies use increasingly complicated tax maneuvers to claim
more of their income is derived from overseas, or otherwise
reduce their U.S. taxes. Companies can legitimately avoid paying
taxes on that income, now an accumulated $1.9 trillion, until
they bring it home.  Ideally, revising the treatment of overseas income should
be part of a broader tax overhaul. It’s hard to separate the
treatment of foreign income from the rest of the corporate  tax
code , which encourages companies to move their operations
overseas.  Two Principles  If an overhaul fails to advance, however, lawmakers should
revise foreign-income rules separately. By one  estimate , the
Treasury is losing $90 billion a year as a result of
multinational companies’ shifting income overseas to avoid
taxes.  Any deal on foreign-source income should meet two
principles. First, if companies are allowed to repatriate
foreign earnings at a reduced  tax rate , they must be required to
follow tighter rules that bar the kinds of strategies Apple and
others use to minimize taxes.  The lawmakers leading the reform effort, House Ways and
Means Chairman  Dave Camp , a Michigan Republican, and Senate
Finance Chairman  Max Baucus , a Montana Democrat, have said they
support such changes. The trick will be making sure any changes
are meaningful, in the face of pressure from companies that
would face a higher tax burden.  There are a variety of options, including restricting or
eliminating the 1996 “check the box” rules, which let a company
declare a subsidiary a “disregarded entity,” thus limiting its
U.S. tax liability. In the words of one tax expert who testified
in this week’s hearing, J. Richard Harvey of Villanova Law
School, the effect of those rules could be described as “making
things go poof.”  Second, any deal would need to raise significant revenue.
The Joint Committee on Taxation estimates that a Levin proposal
to revise the check-the-box system and related rules would
increase revenue by $78 billion over 10 years.  Another revenue-raising option would impose a minimum tax
on foreign income, possibly with a credit for taxes already paid
to the host government. In an informal  survey  by Bloomberg
Government in February, many tax experts cited a minimum levy as
a way to bridge the divide between defenders of the current
system and those who advocate a territorial system, in which
income is taxed only where it’s earned. President  Barack Obama 
called for a minimum tax, without specifying a number, in his
tax-reform proposal last year.  Appropriate Rate  The question is: At what level should the tax be set? When
Congress granted companies a temporary tax holiday for foreign
income in 2004 and 2005, the money was subject to a 5.25 percent
levy. Clearly, a higher level is appropriate for a permanent
change. We’ve  called  for a minimum of 15 percent, but Congress
should be willing to apply a higher number if other revenue-raising measures are blocked.  If a 15 percent rate were applied to foreign earnings now
held overseas, it could generate as much as $285 billion in
revenue if all the money were repatriated, before accounting for
credits for taxes paid to other governments.  Apple’s Cook endorsed this week a corporate tax overhaul
that would eliminate all tax breaks, reduce the existing 35
percent rate and impose an unspecified “reasonable” tax on
foreign earnings -- somewhere in the single digits to induce
companies to bring their money home. We’re skeptical that such a
low rate is necessary; it could even backfire by encouraging
more businesses to move their operations abroad.  There’s no point castigating Apple for taking maximum
advantage of existing tax law. We expect the company to redefine
the possible in the devices it makes, so it shouldn’t be a
surprise that Apple exerts the same determination when it comes
to keeping its money.  The consternation spurred by the subcommittee’s report
should be directed toward pushing Congress to adopt a fairer,
more reasonable system of taxation for the foreign earnings of
U.S. companies.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 