-- Harper Opens Private Party Speech After Senate Scandal
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n   a n d   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2013-05-21T14:15:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/harper-opens-private-party-speech-after-senate-scandal.html
Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  said the resignation of his top adviser and two
Conservative Party senators over questions about expenses should
be followed by others if they aren’t working in the public
interest.  “Anyone who wants to use public office for their own
benefit should make other plans or, better yet, leave this
room,’ Harper, 54, told a weekly meeting in Ottawa of party
members that is normally closed to the public. The speech is
Harper’s first since his Chief of Staff Nigel Wright quit and
Senators Mike Duffy and Pamela Wallin, both appointed to the
Senate by Harper, quit the Conservatives.  The resignation of Wright two days ago brings the scandal
closer to Harper than any since he took power in 2006, said  Nik Nanos , an Ottawa-based pollster. Wright left after the
disclosure he paid about C$90,000 ($87,500) to Duffy to settle
ineligible expenses.  ‘‘One of the reasons Harper has been politically successful
is that he has been untouched by controversy,” Nanos, president
of Nanos Research, said by e-mail. “I believe this is the first
time something controversial has been linked inside the prime
minister’s office.”  “I am very upset, about some conduct we have witnessed,
the conduct of some parliamentarians and the conduct of my own
office,” Harper said today in a speech that lasted less than 10
minutes. The Conservatives are working on tighter Senate expense
rules, Harper said, and repeated his call for opposition support
for legislation on other Senate reforms such as elections and
term limits.  Repay Funds  The prime minister’s office said May 15 that Wright helped
Duffy because the lawmaker was unable to pay back the funds
immediately and the chief of staff didn’t want taxpayers to foot
the bill.  “In light of the controversy surrounding my handling of
matters involving Senator Duffy, the prime minister has accepted
my resignation,” Wright, 50, wrote in a separate statement when
he resigned. “I accept sole responsibility. I did not advise
the Prime Minister of the means by which Senator Duffy’s
expenses were repaid.”  Ray Novak, Harper’s principal secretary, will take over
from Wright, a person familiar with the decision said on
condition they not be identified because the appointment hasn’t
been made public.  Opinion Polls  The controversy coincides with Harper’s Conservatives
trailing in public opinion polls for the first time since the
2009 recession. A Nanos Research poll released April 12 found
the  Liberal Party  with the support of 35.4 percent of voters,
compared with 31.3 percent for the Conservatives. That’s a
reversal from January, when the Conservatives had 34.3 percent
support, compared with 27.6 percent for the Liberals. Elections
aren’t scheduled until 2015.  “There’s enough time to put this behind him but they can’t
let it get legs,” Nanos said.  The spokesman for ethics issues for the main opposition  New
Democratic Party , Charlie Angus, told reporters yesterday he’s
written to Royal Canadian Mounted Police Commissioner Bob
Paulson asking him to investigate the matter.  “A secret cash payment to a public figure is a very, very
serious allegation,” Angus said in the televised conference in
Ottawa. “The fact that this payment was made out of the prime
minister’s office demands accountability.  ‘‘These actions are not only troubling, but they may
violate the very laws that the RCMP is charged with upholding
and enforcing,’’ Angus said.  Political Aide  Novak has worked as a political aide to Harper since his
return to federal politics in 2002. He served as Harper’s
executive assistant before his promotion to principal secretary
in 2008.  Duffy, 66, has said Senate rules allowing for reimbursement
of housing and travel expenses to lawmakers whose primary
residence is more than 100 kilometers (62 miles) from Ottawa
were unclear, a statement  corroborated  in a Deloitte LLP audit
commissioned by the chamber and released May 9. In a statement
the same day, Duffy said he claimed the expenses in ‘‘good
faith’’ and won’t seek to have any part of his repayment
returned to him.  Wright, a one-time adviser and speech writer to former
Prime Minister Brian Mulroney, was a managing director at
Toronto-based  Onex Corp. (OCX) ,  Canada ’s largest private-equity firm,
before becoming Harper’s third chief of staff more than two
years ago. At the time, he said he was taking temporary leave
from Onex until January 2013.  Quit Boards  Wright, who has been an organizer with the Conservatives
since at least 1983, also resigned from the boards of Hawker
Beechcraft and Spirit Aerosystems Holdings, two Onex units, to
join the prime minister’s office.  Before joining Onex, he worked as a lawyer at the
commercial firm Davies, Ward, and Beck.  Wright told lawmakers at a hearing before taking the job
that his values ‘‘align” with the prime minister’s “in every
single way.”  Wright was chief of staff during a period where Harper
headed a majority government, a luxury previous chiefs of staff
didn’t have. During this time, Harper has shifted policy toward
global competitiveness issues and pressed ahead with efforts to
bolster business investment, as the country’s economy struggles
to build steam amid tepid demand for exports and slowing
consumer spending.  That policy agenda has included legislation to expedite the
environmental review of  Enbridge Inc. (ENB) ’s Northern Gateway
pipeline and other resource infrastructure projects.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa  at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net ;
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa  at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  