-- Harvard’s Largest Gift Doubles With Second Wyss Donation
-- B y   M i c h a e l   M c D o n a l d
-- 2013-05-21T18:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/harvard-s-largest-gift-doubles-with-second-wyss-donation.html
Hansjoerg Wyss, the Swiss
philanthropist who is among the world’s wealthiest people, is
making a second $125 million donation to Harvard University to
fund a bioengineering institute.  Wyss gave an initial $125 million in 2008, the largest gift
in Harvard’s history, to start the  Hansjoerg Wyss Institute for
Biologically Inspired Engineering , which has partnerships with
other schools and medical facilities in the Boston area. Among
its research projects is a robotic bee that can be used in
search and rescue missions or to replace dying bee populations,
the institute said today in a statement.  “We wanted to create a place where the innovation and
imagination of the world’s best minds could work beyond
disciplinary boundaries to deliver life-changing medicines and
technologies that are inspired by nature,” Wyss said in the
statement.  Wyss helped build the Swiss medical device company Synthes,
now owned by  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , into the world’s largest maker
of bone fracture and trauma treatment devices. He has an
estimated net worth of $12.4 billion, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg, and lives in  Wyoming . A foundation he started
works to protect wilderness in the U.S.  The philanthropist received an MBA from Harvard Business
School in 1965, and in 2004 donated $25 million to bolster the
school’s doctoral programs. Harvard President Drew Faust called
Wyss “extraordinarily generous.”  “This additional gift will enable the institute’s
continued success and create new opportunities to improve
people’s lives and the world in which we live,” Faust said in
the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael McDonald in Boston at 
 mmcdonald10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  