-- As Job Flow Slows, Americans Get Stuck in Place
-- B y   P e t e r   O r s z a g
-- 2013-05-21T22:00:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/as-job-flow-slows-americans-get-stuck-in-place.html
Most Americans believe that the job
market has grown more turbulent, with people changing employers
ever more often. In reality, the opposite is happening.  This, in turn, largely explains why fewer Americans than
ever are moving across state lines. And as intergenerational
income mobility also declines, U.S. families may be in for a new
era of restricted opportunity.  Consider the evidence on job changes. After analyzing
combined data from four employment surveys conducted from 1998
to 2010, Henry Hyatt and James Spletzer of the U.S. Census
Bureau  concluded  that “rates of  job creation , job destruction,
hiring and separation declined dramatically, and the rate of
job-to-job flows fell by about half.”  In 1998, various surveys suggested that 8 percent to 10
percent of American workers switched jobs. In 2010, just 5
percent to 6 percent did. This trend predated the last recession
(although declines are always larger during recessions). And
very little of it can be explained by shifts in the demographic
makeup of the U.S.  Similarly, economists  Steven Davis  of the  University of
Chicago , Jason Faberman of the  Federal Reserve  Bank of Chicago
and John Haltiwanger of the  University of Maryland   have found 
that from 1990 to 2010 the rate of job change gradually
declined. As the authors note, their finding indicates that U.S.
labor markets have become “less fluid and dynamic.”  Less Mobility  Meanwhile, the interstate migration rate has shrunk to less
than half its average from the late 1940s to the early 1970s,
according to  calculations  by economists Raven Molloy and
Christopher Smith of the Federal Reserve and Abigail Wozniak of
the University of  Notre Dame . They also found that changing
demographics and the state of the housing market cannot explain
much of the decline. (The authors did find, somewhat
surprisingly, that interstate mobility rates have fallen more
for renters than for homeowners, and also a bit more for college
graduates than for others.)  Molloy, Smith and Wozniak convincingly tie these two trends
together. They find that roughly three-quarters of people who
move across state lines change employers when they do so.
However, the wage gain from switching employers has fallen to
essentially zero. The result, they argue, is that people change
jobs less often and therefore have less incentive to move to
another state. A key question, then -- and one that I will
explore in future columns -- is why the wage gain from switching
employers has declined.  Meanwhile, intergenerational income-mobility rates appear
to also  have dropped . That is, the chances that a middle-income
child becomes a high-income adult, or a high-income child
becomes middle-income, appear to be lower today than in the
past. I will also explore this topic in future columns, but the
important point for now is that the loss of intergenerational
mobility points to a less dynamic society.  So we are left with a puzzle: Most Americans feel their
lives are more fluid than in the past, while the data suggest
otherwise. At least with regard to job changes, big moves and
mobility across generations, America appears to be getting stuck
in place.  ( Peter Orszag  is vice chairman of corporate and investment
banking and chairman of the financial strategy and solutions
group at Citigroup Inc. and a former director of the Office of
Management and Budget in the Obama administration. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Peter Orszag at  orszagbloomberg@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  