-- S&P 500 Returns to Record While U.S. Treasuries Advance
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n   a n d   L u   W a n g
-- 2013-05-21T20:18:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/asian-stocks-trade-near-five-year-high-before-boj-silver-falls.html
The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX) 
returned to a record as a  Federal Reserve  official said bond
purchases should continue and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. forecast
the stock rally will last at least through 2015. Treasuries rose
and the yen pared earlier losses while grains and gold fell.  The  S&P 500  climbed 0.2 percent to 1,669.16 at 4 p.m. in
New York, while the Stoxx Europe 600 Index erased a 0.7 percent
drop to close little changed. The yield on the 10-year Treasury
note fell four basis points to 1.93 percent. Japan’s currency
was 0.2 percent weaker against the dollar, paring a 0.6 percent
drop. The pound slid 0.7 percent to $1.5151 after U.K. inflation
slowed more than economists forecast in April. Corn, wheat and
gold paced losses in commodities.  Goldman Sachs said the market’s rally may last at least
another 2 1/2 years and send the S&P 500 up 26 percent to 2,100
as  valuations  increase amid improving confidence in the economy.
Fed Bank of St. Louis President  James Bullard  said bond buying
is policy makers’ best available option to boost growth. Home
Depot Inc. helped lead the Dow Jones Industrial Average’s gain
today after the retailer’s earnings beat estimates.  “This bull market has been driven by many factors and two
of them are the monetary policy by the Federal Reserve and the
recovery of the housing market,” Omar Aguilar, the San
Francisco-based chief investment officer of equities at Charles
Schwab Investment Management, said in a telephone interview. The
firm had $224 billion in assets under management as of Dec. 31.
“The earnings number from Home Depot just confirmed the fact
that the housing recovery is real and continues to be stable.”  Bull Market  The S&P 500 has gained 17 percent this year and almost 147
percent from its bear-market low in 2009 as Fed stimulus
measures and earnings growth fueled a four-year rally.  The benchmark index slipped 0.1 percent yesterday,
retreating from an all-time high, amid concern an improving
economy will cause the Fed to taper its bond purchases. Chicago
Fed President  Charles Evans  said yesterday the  U.S. economy  is
“improving quite a lot.” Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
testifies on the economy in Congress tomorrow.  New York Fed President William C. Dudley said he has not
decided whether the central bank’s next move should be to
enlarge or shrink its bond-buying program as he called for a
fresh look at its eventual retreat from record asset purchases.  “Because the outlook is uncertain, I cannot be sure which
way, up or down, the next change will be,” Dudley said in
prepared remarks for a speech today in New York.  Market Leaders  Gauges of health-care, consumer, financial and industrial
stocks were among the biggest gains of the 10 main industries in
the S&P 500 today, while telephone, commodity and technology
companies posted the biggest declines.  Home Depot, the largest U.S. home-improvement retailer,
jumped 2.5 percent to a record $78.71 after net income increased
18 percent to $1.23 billion in the first quarter,  beating  the
average analyst estimate by 9 percent. JPMorgan Chase & Co. rose
1.4 percent to a six-year high as shareholders voted for  Jamie
Dimon  to keep his dual chairman and chief executive officer
title. Medtronic Inc. rallied 4.9 percent, the most since 2011,
as quarterly sales of pacemakers and defibrillators rose,
surprising analysts who expected shrinking demand do continue.  Apple Inc. slipped 0.7 percent as the company faced a
Senate panel that yesterday released a report saying the iPhone
maker used loopholes to avoid paying taxes.  David Kostin , Goldman Sachs’s chief U.S. equity strategist,
boosted his year-end forecast for the S&P 500 by 7.7 percent
from 1,625 to 1,750. He raised his 2014 projection to 1,900 and
his 2015 forecast to 2,100. He kept his estimates for combined
earnings by S&P 500 companies at $108 a share in 2013 and $116
for next year.  ‘Wide Gap’  Price-to-earnings multiples will expand amid “confidence
in the medium-term outlook for U.S. economic growth and the wide
gap between equity and persistently low bond yields that we
assume will be closed more by stocks than bonds,” New York-based Kostin wrote in a note dated yesterday.  The S&P 500’s dividend yield, currently at 2.02 percent,
has been higher than the rate on 10-year Treasury notes for more
than a year. The equity index trades at  16.3 times  reported
operating profit, 16 percent below the average since 1998, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  U.S. two-year Treasury yields were little changed at 0.23
percent, while 30-year rates slipped five basis points to 3.13
percent. The dollar was weaker against seven of 16 major peers,
losing more than 0.5 percent versus the South Korean won,
Swedish krona and Norwegian krone. The  Dollar Index , a measure
against six major trading partners, was up less than 0.1 percent
at 83.81 after jumping 0.6 percent before Bullard’s remarks were
released.  China’s State Administration of Foreign Exchange has set up
an operation in New York to make alternative investments in the
U.S., the Wall Street Journal reported, citing people it didn’t
identify. The new operation, which will focus on private equity,
real estate and other assets, is an effort by China’s foreign-exchange reserves manager to diversify away from U.S. government
debt, the newspaper reported.  China’s Investments  SAFE has sought to vary its portfolio in the past year by
buying European assets and  Japanese (TPX)  stocks, the newspaper
reported, citing the unnamed people. Officials in recent weeks
met with Wall Street banks about potential investment
opportunities, according to the report. It’s not clear if any
deals have been signed, the publication said,  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index was little changed after a four-week rally drove the gauge to the highest level since June 2008.
Carnival Corp., the world’s biggest cruise operator, plunged 5.9
percent in London trading after lowering its profit target.
Sonova Holding AG fell 1.1 percent as the world’s largest
hearing-aid maker forecast slowing profit growth this year.  Emerging, Currencies  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index was little changed. The
Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of mainland companies listed
in Hong Kong dropped 0.9 percent, the most in a week, led by
 Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. (1398)  after Goldman Sachs
was said to have sold its stake in the lender. Russia’s Micex
Index rose 1.2 percent, extending its three-day rally to 3.6
percent, and Brazil’s Bovespa climbed 0.6 percent to extend its
three-day rally to 2.3 percent.  In currency markets, the yen weakened against 12 of 16
major peers as Japan’s Economy Minister Akira Amari backed away
from comments that drove the currency to its biggest gain in
three weeks yesterday. Japan’s Amari said today the overly
strong yen is in the process of being corrected and can’t say
when it will end after commenting two days ago that the weakness
may hurt “people’s lives.”  “While the market does not expect the Federal Reserve to
stop its $85 billion a month in asset purchases at once and,
like the Fed itself, continues to mull an exit strategy, few
consider the same in terms of Japan,” Brown Brothers Harriman &
Co. currency strategists led by  Marc Chandler  wrote in a note to
clients. “Amari’s comments can be understood as tapping on the
brakes, or blowing air under a parachute to help create the
conditions of a soft landing to the yen.”  Yen Weakness  The Japanese currency has slumped 19 percent in the past
six months, the most among 10 developed-nation currencies
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, as Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe pledged to beat deflation and the  Bank of
Japan  doubled monthly bond purchases. It tumbled to 103.31 per
dollar on May 17, the weakest level since October 2008, after
strengthening to a post-World War II record of 75.35 in October
2011. The BOJ started a two-day policy meeting today.  “They need a weaker yen to help the economy and what they
don’t want is the unintended consequences of big volatility that
comes with it,” said  Nizam Idris , head of currency strategy in
Singapore at Macquarie Group Ltd. “Growth is improving and we
will need to see more of the impact of the weak yen on the macro
economy. The yen weakness will continue, though the pace should
be slower toward year-end.”  Amari said he hoped the yen would stabilize at a level that
matches the nation’s economic fundamentals.  “I have previously said that the overly strong yen is in
the process of being corrected,” he told reporters in Tokyo.
“I will not say it has been corrected, or where it will
finish.”  Pound Slides  The pound weakened against all but one of its 16 major
peers. Consumer prices climbed 2.4 percent from a year earlier,
less than the 2.6 percent median forecast in a Bloomberg survey,
data from the  Office for National Statistics  showed. The  Bank of
England  releases minutes of its May 8-9 meeting tomorrow.  The Swiss franc fell against 13 of 16 major peers, touching
a four-month low versus the euro, as the  International Monetary
Fund  said the introduction of negative  interest rates  on banks’
excess deposits may help the Swiss National Bank cool the
nation’s real-estate market.  The rand tumbled 1.2 percent to the weakest against the
dollar since 2011 as violent protests erupted at a South African
chrome mine.  Commodities Slip  Corn futures lost 1.5 percent, the biggest drop in more
than a week, after the government said U.S. farmers planted the
most ever in a single week as the Midwest got drier and warmer.
Wheat fell to a seven-week low, and soybeans rose. Gold futures
for June delivery lost 0.5 percent to $1,377.60 an ounce and
silver slid 0.6 percent to $22.455.  As diminishing faith in gold is spurring investors to sell
record amounts of the metal, demand for platinum and palladium
is strengthening as mining companies curb supply.  Gold owned through exchange-traded products fell 17 percent
this year as platinum holdings rose 31 percent and those in
palladium 17 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Platinum
will end the year at $1,690 an ounce, or 16 percent more than
now, while palladium will gain 7.5 percent to $800 an ounce,
according to the medians of 15 analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. The majority of 38 analysts surveyed last month said
gold would post an annual drop, ending a 12-year winning streak,
amid waning trust in gold as a store of value after prices
tumbled into a bear market in April.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael P. Regan in New York at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net ;
Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  