-- Senate Panel Approves Immigration Plan With Hatch Changes
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r   a n d   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 2013-05-22T00:53:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/hatch-schumer-said-to-reach-accord-on-high-tech-visas.html
The Senate Judiciary Committee
approved legislation revising U.S. immigration law that includes
an agreement between Senator  Orrin Hatch  and Democrats on visas
for high-skilled foreign workers.  The Senate Judiciary Committee voted 13-5 to approve the
measure authored by a group of four Democrats and four
Republicans. Republican Hatch and two Republican co-authors of
the bill, Jeff Flake of  Arizona  and  Lindsey Graham  of  South
Carolina , joined all of the panel’s Democrats in voting for it.  Even with the Republican support, Flake said the measure
will require more changes on the Senate floor to win passage
there and have a chance in the Republican-led House.  “There’s a lot of work to do on this, but this was a great
process,” Flake said.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, has
said he wants to bring the measure to the full Senate “as soon
as it’s ready,” probably in early June.  Senator  Patrick Leahy , the committee chairman and a Vermont
Democrat, withdrew an amendment to provide immigrants in  same-sex marriages  with U.S. citizens equal benefits to heterosexual
couples after Democrats and Republicans unanimously spoke
against it.  “We now know this is going to blow the agreement apart,”
said Democratic Senator Dianne Feinstein of  California . “I
don’t want to blow this bill apart.”  Obama Statement  President  Barack Obama  in a statement after the vote
congratulated the committee on its approval of the bill and said
the measure “meets the challenge of fixing our broken
immigration system.”  Several provisions Hatch proposed “were absolutely
unacceptable; we tried to find those things that were acceptable
and to build upon them, and I think we’ve reached a reasonable
compromise,” said Illinois Senator Richard Durbin, the
chamber’s second-ranking Democrat and a co-author of the
immigration proposal.  The Senate measure, S.744, seeks to balance a path to
citizenship for 11 million undocumented immigrants in the U.S.,
sought by Democrats, with enough border-security improvements to
satisfy Republicans.  The accord with Hatch, a Utah Republican, would change the
formula for calculating the number of visas for foreign
technology workers while keeping the bill’s limit of 180,000 a
year.  ‘Rigorous Standards’  It would lift a requirement that companies look for a U.S.
worker before hiring a foreign visa holder for all companies
except those whose workforce is more than 15 percent foreign.  “If a firm has more than 15 percent foreign employees,
there are going to be more rigorous standards in terms of
recruitment and making these jobs available to Americans,”
Durbin said.  He had pushed for protections for U.S. workers to be
included.  Durbin, Democratic Senator  Charles Schumer  of  New York  and
other authors of the Senate immigration bill had been courting
Hatch’s vote. Hatch had said he would oppose the measure unless
Democrats agreed to his amendments favoring technology companies
that seek to hire more high-skilled foreign workers.  “This took a while,” Schumer told the committee today.
“It’s a compromise.”  ‘Good Balance’  The amendment included Hatch’s proposal to require
employers to show that a U.S. worker wasn’t available only when
they initially hire a foreign employee, not with each visa
extension.  “Our amendment strikes a good balance,” Hatch told fellow
Judiciary Committee members. He said it ensures that “no U.S.
worker has been or will be displaced” by a foreign worker.  Unions led by the AFL-CIO labor federation said technology
companies are trying to use the H-1B visa program for high-skilled foreign workers to undermine  job security  and
opportunities for U.S. workers.  Hatch’s amendments “are unambiguous attacks on American
workers,” AFL-CIO President  Richard Trumka  said in an e-mailed
statement. The amendments “would mean that American
corporations could fire American workers in order to bring in
H-1B visa holders at lower wages,” he said.  Durbin said he didn’t expect an endorsement from  labor
organizations , “but we at least have worked with them and
respected their input and have tried to reach an agreement that
is close to the values they bring to the table.”  100 Amendments  During its deliberations, the Judiciary Committee adopted
about 100 amendments to the measure.  Senate Republican Leader  Mitch McConnell  of  Kentucky  told
reporters earlier today he was “hopeful” the Senate could pass
immigration legislation, adding that Republican senators share
“a view the status quo is not good.”  McConnell said he would vote to bring the bill to the floor
so it could be opened up for amendments.  The Senate bill initially would raise the annual H-1B visa
limit for high-skilled foreign workers to 135,000 from 85,000.
Caps in future years could increase to 180,000, depending on
economic conditions.  The measure would require companies to recruit U.S. workers
before hiring foreign ones. Technology companies say that
invites bureaucratic scrutiny by the government and lawsuits
from U.S. workers.  Other Changes  Hatch has said it will take more than a deal on high-skilled visas to win his backing when the measure is considered
by the full Senate.  For his vote then, Hatch said lawmakers must agree to his
proposed changes regarding the taxes immigrants must pay and
social benefits they receive.  “They’re going to have to resolve those conflicts for me,
or I will have to vote against the bill on the floor,” Hatch
said.  Hatch also said he wants to require immigrants who seek
citizenship to pay additional taxes and to make it clear that
unauthorized employment can’t count toward eligibility for
Social Security benefits. He is proposing a five-year waiting
period before those on the path to citizenship could receive
subsidies under the 2010 health-care law.  The proposals improve the bill’s prospects for gaining the
60 votes needed for Senate passage and also for passing the
Republican-controlled House, Hatch said.  “If they do some of the things I think ought to be done,
then I think it’s got a chance,” he said.  Durbin said the agreement didn’t include Hatch’s additional
requests.  “He’s bargaining for as many things as he can get,”
Durbin said, referring to Hatch.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net ;
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  