-- Aussie Remains Higher Versus Dollar Before Bernanke Testimony
-- B y   K e v i n   B u c k l a n d
-- 2013-05-21T07:32:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/aussie-dollar-holds-advance-versus-greenback-before-rba-minutes.html
Australia’s dollar held its biggest
gain in two months against the greenback before Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  speaks in Congress tomorrow.  The so-called Aussie has rebounded from its worst two-week
loss in more than a year as traders bet Bernanke may counter
speculation U.S. policy makers are closer to reducing bond
purchases. The currency fell earlier before the  Reserve Bank  of
Australia released minutes from this month’s meeting when it cut
interest rates to a record. New Zealand’s kiwi dollar rose,
building on its biggest advance in eight months.  “The way I see Bernanke playing this is that he’s just
going to come out and defend his easy policies,” said  Chris Weston , the chief market strategist at IG Markets in Melbourne.
“People are looking to cover shorts on the Aussie dollar ahead
of that, and that’s why we’re seeing the move up.” A short
position is a bet that an asset will decrease in value. Weston
said he expects  Australia ’s currency to strengthen toward 98.70
U.S. cents.  The so-called Aussie advanced 0.1 percent to 98.18 U.S.
cents as of 5:03 p.m. in Sydney from yesterday, when it rose 0.8
percent, the most since March 14. It earlier fell to 97.52, and
tumbled 5.7 percent over the past two weeks, the most since the
10 days ended Sept. 30, 2011.  The  New Zealand dollar , known as the kiwi, rose 0.2 percent
to 81.89 U.S. cents after jumping 1.3 percent yesterday, the
most since Sept. 7.  Bernanke Testimony  Bernanke goes before a Joint Economic Committee of Congress
in Washington tomorrow to testify on the economic outlook.
Minutes of the Fed’s last policy meeting will be released the
same day.  The dollar has been boosted by speculation the U.S. central
bank is going to signal a paring back of its purchases of $85
billion of Treasury and mortgage bonds a month. Fed Bank of
Chicago President  Charles Evans  added to that speculation
yesterday, saying the  U.S. economy  has improved “quite a lot.”  The  Federal Open Market Committee  said May 1 it would be
prepared to increase or reduce the pace of asset purchases in
response to changes in the outlook for inflation and the labor
market.  “The Fed has been hopeless at communicating, so the hope
is we may get some clarity on what really is policy” from
Bernanke’s testimony, Nick Parsons, co-head of foreign-exchange
strategy at National Australia Bank Ltd., said in Sydney. “I
think the Fed is genuinely ambivalent.”  RBA Minutes  The RBA said subdued growth and inflation gave it scope to
reduce the benchmark  interest rate  to a record 2.75 percent
earlier this month, according to  minutes  from the meeting.
Policy makers said the effects of earlier cuts are still working
through the economy.  Traders see the RBA lowering borrowing costs by 28 basis
points over 12 months, compared with 32 points of cuts priced in
yesterday, a Credit Suisse Group AG index based on swaps showed.
They expect 19 basis points of rate increases by the Reserve
Bank of  New Zealand .  Australia’s benchmark  10-year (GACGB10)  government bond yield rose 3
basis points to 3.26 percent. The  three-year  yield increased 4
basis points to 2.58 percent.  The notes also debuted today on the nation’s biggest stock
exchange, as the government seeks to attract retail investors.
Trading totaled A$319,000 and was dominated by 2015 and 2017
notes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Buckland in Tokyo at 
 kbuckland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Garfield Reynolds at 
 greynolds1@bloomberg.net  