-- Australia Pension Funds Set for Second-Highest Return on Record
-- B y   N a r a y a n a n   S o m a s u n d a r a m
-- 2013-05-21T02:15:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/australia-pension-funds-set-for-second-highest-return-on-record.html
Australian pension funds are on track
to post their best annual return in 16 years, powered by a
global stock market rally, according to SuperRatings Pty Ltd.  Balanced funds in the A$1.5 trillion ($1.47 trillion)
retirement savings system, the world’s fourth largest pension
pool, posted a median return of 15 percent in the first ten
months of the year to June 30, the Sydney-based data provider
said in an e-mailed statement today. That puts the funds on
track for the second-highest annual return since  Australia ’s
compulsory pension system was introduced in 1992 and behind an
18 percent return in 1996 to 1997, it said.  Australia’s pension funds returned an annual negative 0.2
percent return in the five years to June 2012, SuperRatings data
showed, roiled by contagion in  Europe  and a faltering U.S.
recovery. Fueling the turnaround in funds’ returns, the MSCI
ACWI Index of global equities, tracking emerging and developed
markets, rose 21 percent since the end of June last year.  “It has been six long and challenging years, since the
onset of the global financial crisis, for the superannuation
industry and its members,” Jeff Bresnahan, founder of
SuperRatings said in the statement. “However, a result of this
magnitude, possibly some 14 percent-plus above prevailing
inflation, could well be the catalyst for Australians to re-engage with their super funds.”  Commonwealth Bank of Australia’s  Group Super-Mix 70, a fund
for the employees of Australia’s largest bank, and Retail
Employees Superannuation Trust’s Core Strategy pension fund
topped the 5-year annual return rankings with a 5.4 percent and
5.2 percent return respectively. Balanced funds have as much as
76 percent invested in growth assets, SuperRatings said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Narayanan Somasundaram in Sydney at 
 nsomasundara@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  