-- Lawmakers Say U.K. Failing to Cut Tax-Credit Error, Fraud
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2013-05-21T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/lawmakers-say-u-k-failing-to-cut-tax-credit-error-fraud.html
The U.K.’s tax office is failing to
curb error and fraud in the delivery of tax credits and as a
result is falling short of its target for losses, a panel of
lawmakers said.  Though  Her Majesty’s Revenue & Customs  pledged in 2010 to
save 8 billion pounds ($12 billion) by cutting losses and fraud
on tax credits by 2015, it now says savings will amount to only
3 billion pounds, the  House of Commons Public Accounts Committee 
said in a report published in London today. More than 8 percent
of the money spent on tax credits is lost to fraud and error,
with an estimated one in five awards affected, the panel said.  “HMRC’s performance in cutting the level of fraud and
error in the tax-credits system has been hugely disappointing
and extremely poor,” the committee chairwoman, opposition
Labour Party lawmaker Margaret Hodge, said in an e-mailed
statement. “In these strained times, the government cannot
afford these failures.”  HMRC paid out 30 billion pounds in tax credits in 2011-12
to almost 6 million individuals and families. The agency has not
properly evaluated the effectiveness of measures taken to cut
losses and as a result is concentrating its efforts in the wrong
areas, the cross-party committee said, citing a 10-fold increase
in interventions on individual cases that resulted in cutting
losses by only half.  HMRC needs to provide better information and support to
claimants and cross-reference other data it holds, for example
on the number of children in households, the committee said. The
agency also failed to provide enough resources to deal with the
increased number of appeals, it said.  “HMRC has made some progress in analyzing risks but
nowhere near enough,” Hodge said. “The department needs to
make more effective use of available data to identify higher-risk claims.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in  London  at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  