-- Bangladesh Worker Deaths May Change U.S. Shopping Habits
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2013-05-21T13:41:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/bangladesh-worker-deaths-may-change-u-s-shopping-habits.html
About 70 percent of Americans have
heard of the building collapse in  Bangladesh  that killed more
than 1,000 people, and for some it means they’ll probably buy
fewer goods made in the country.  Among those who learned of the deaths, 39 percent said they
would probably buy fewer products produced in Bangladesh,
according to a survey by Harris Poll of more than 2,000 adults
from May 14-16. Women are more likely to change shopping habits
than men, 42 percent to 34 percent, the poll showed.  The Rana Plaza factory, an eight-story building in Savar,
Bangladesh that housed garment factories, collapsed on April 24,
killing at least 1,127 people. As rescuers searched for
survivors in the following weeks the rising death toll brought
increased media coverage. The incident, which is one of the
world’s deadliest industrial accidents, has prompted more calls
for reform in Bangladesh after a fire in an apparel factory
there killed 112 people in November.  Apparel accounts for 80 percent of the country’s exports
and employs about 3.4 million people. As wages rose in other
apparel-producing countries such as  China , companies have turned
to the cheaper labor in Bangladesh.  Since the collapse, companies that buy clothes made by
factories in Bangladesh have announced plans to improve safety.
A group of retailers comprising mostly European chains,
including  Hennes & Mauritz AB (HMB)  and  Inditex SA (ITX) , pledged $60
million over five years to increase monitoring of conditions.  Wal-Mart, Gap  Several U.S. chains, including Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and Gap
Inc., didn’t sign the agreement. Wal-Mart, the world’s largest
retailer, will instead make public the safety inspections of its
279 authorized suppliers in Bangladesh that are to be completed
in the next six months. Gap has said it is “ready to sign,”
pending a change to the provision regarding binding arbitration.  Workers there have also been protesting as they demand
higher wages. The government has said it’s considering raising
the minimum wage of about $39 a month.  The poll also asked respondents if they looked at labels to
find out where a garment was made before purchasing, and 44
percent said they did. Americans older than 55 had the highest
probability to do so at 53 percent. And while just 49 percent of
respondents aged 18 to 34 had heard of the collapse, 86 percent
of those aged 55 of higher knew.  Harris Poll asked these questions at the request of
 Bloomberg News .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in  New York  at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  