-- U.S. Bank Mergers Seen Less Likely With Sellers Holding Out
-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 2013-05-21T13:43:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/bank-mergers-in-u-s-seen-less-likely-with-sellers-holding-out.html
Bank managers in the U.S. are less
likely to engage in mergers and acquisitions this year as
regulators heighten scrutiny on potential deals and sellers wait
for higher valuations, according to a  KPMG  LLP survey.  About 13 percent of executives said they were “very
likely” to take over another firm in the next year, compared
with 21 percent in 2012, according to a report today from the
audit, tax and advisory firm. Respondents also are less apt to
sell assets, with 8 percent saying they anticipate divestitures,
down from 13 percent last year.  “The regulatory risk of getting a deal nixed at the 11th
hour is certainly higher than a year ago,” Brian Stephens, head
of KPMG’s banking and capital markets practice, said in a phone
interview. Leaders of smaller lenders that may sell themselves
are saying, “I’ve gotten through the worst of times, and I see
better times coming, so why do a deal now?”  While  shares of banks  that survived the financial crisis
have rebounded along with profits, the firms won’t avoid
increased scrutiny from regulators, according to the survey.
More than half of the rules mandated by the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act
haven’t been completed and the Consumer Financial Protection
Bureau is stepping up oversight of the industry, Stephens said.  Regulators were deemed the single biggest barrier to
mergers, at 57 percent, up from 40 percent a year earlier,
according to the survey. Respondents also cited regulatory and
legislative scrutiny as the biggest impediment to growth, at 72
percent, compared with 69 percent in 2012.  ‘Simple Question’  “The potential acquirer is put through a lot of scrutiny
before any deal happens,” Stephens said. “Regulators are
looking at this as a simple question of risk -- is it increasing
or decreasing the  risk profile ?”  Most respondents, 76 percent, said their companies will
report revenue increases fueled by growth in lending, asset
management and so-called cross-selling of financial products,
according to the survey. About 31 percent said they anticipated
having more employees a year from now, compared with 39 percent
a year earlier.  KPMG said it surveyed 100 bank executives online in March,
and that about 80 percent worked at firms with at least $1
billion in annual revenue.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in  New York  at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Rick Green  at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  