-- Bank of Canada Governor Carney Speech in Montreal (Text)
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 2013-05-21T16:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/bank-of-canada-governor-carney-speech-in-montreal-text-.html
Following is the text of Bank of
 Canada  Governor Mark Carney’s speech today in  Montreal . The
document was released today in Ottawa. Charts and footnotes have
been removed.  Canada Works  Introduction  It is almost six years since the start of the global
financial crisis, and its dynamics still dominate the economic
outlook.  In the United States, households are emerging from a
painful period of deleveraging. Their economic expansion
continues at a modest pace, with gradually strengthening private
demand partly offset by accelerated fiscal consolidation.
Despite recent progress, the U.S. economy has not yet achieved
escape velocity.  Europe remains in recession, with economic activity
constrained by fiscal austerity, low confidence and tight credit
conditions. Deep challenges persist in its financial system.
Without sustained and significant reforms, a decade of
stagnation threatens.  Europe can draw lessons from  Japan  on the dangers of half
measures. It is now more than two decades since the Japanese
financial crisis erupted. To end its debilitating legacy, Japan
has just embarked on a bold policy experiment. Its success or
failure will have a major impact on the outlook over the coming
years.  Amongst the G-7, Canada is unique. For us, the global
financial crisis was an external rather than internal shock.
When Canadian policy-makers responded quickly and forcefully,
our financial system channelled credit to where it was needed
and our economy adjusted smartly.  As painful as our recession was, Canada suffered less. By
the start of 2011, all of the output and all of the jobs lost
during the recession had been recovered. A further 480,000 jobs
have been created since, with the vast majority of them full-time and in the private sector. Nearly all the new jobs are in
industries that pay above-average wages.  Relative to our peers, Canada is working.  Why did we fare better? Our outperformance reflects four
critical advantages:
- responsible fiscal policy,
- sound monetary policy,
- a resilient financial system, and
- a monetary union that works.  I will discuss these foundations of our prosperity in more
detail, but I don’t intend to oversell them. These are the
cornerstones of Canada’s prosperity, but lasting growth depends
on what is built on this foundation through longer-term
investments in infrastructure, human capital, innovation and new
markets.
A Monetary Union That Works  Canada’s monetary union has the essential elements of an
effective currency union: an integrated economy, fiscal
federalism and labour market flexibility. Allow me to elaborate.  An integrated economy  While the composition of provincial output varies, the
Canadian economy is highly integrated. Consider the case of
commodities.  When commodity prices increase, all provinces benefit. All
else equal, the Canadian dollar appreciates. Its adverse impact
on our non-commodity exports is partially offset by the fact
that a stronger currency reduces the cost of productivity-enhancing machinery and equipment and imported inputs to
production. Various mechanisms distribute benefits across
provinces: fiscal policy; increases in personal wealth through
income and ownership of stock; and movements in internal real
exchange rates and interprovincial trade.  During the recession and its aftermath, the importance of
interprovincial trade was clear. For example, the increased
demand from other provinces for  Quebec ’s goods and services
significantly offset lost international exports.  Movements in provincial real exchange rates are another
important part of the adjustment process. Although there is one
exchange rate for Canada as a whole (we all use Canadian
dollars), price differentials across the country yield different
real provincial exchange rates.  This matters.  Consider the Alberta/Quebec real exchange rate. When higher
energy prices stimulate production and investment in Alberta,
extraction, construction and labour costs there rise. This
increases the real Alberta exchange rate, making goods and
services from the other provinces, including Quebec, more
competitive. Interprovincial trade is boosted, spreading
benefits from energy price increases throughout the economy.  It is interesting to compare developments in the Canadian
and European internal exchange rates. For example, since the
euro was introduced, Spanish competitiveness (as measured by GDP
deflators) has fallen by about 30 per cent relative to  Germany .
During the same period, the Alberta exchange rate moved even
more dramatically, rising 40 per cent relative to Quebec. Intra-regional exchange rates in Canada have generally been more
volatile on average than most internal exchange rates in the
euro area.  And yet, the challenges of regaining competitiveness are
central to the economic travails of Spain. This is because Spain
is experiencing a balance of payments crisis. In the years
following monetary union, Spain ran large intra-euro-area
current account deficits, funded in part by foreign purchases of
real estate and inflows to the Spanish banking system. When
these dried up, domestic activity collapsed. There are few
institutional mechanisms within the Economic and Monetary Union
(EMU) at present to offset the shock.  In  Alberta ’s case, a rising tide has lifted all boats. That
is because the Canadian monetary union has what Europe does not:
a single financial market; a flexible, national labour market;
and significant fiscal transfers. These smooth the adjustments
brought about by the large shifts in relative prices.
Fiscal federalism helps to share risks  Despite the equilibrating movement of real provincial
exchange rates, shocks to our economy can still have a more
significant impact on some regions than others. Since monetary
policy works at an aggregate level to support aggregate demand,
it cannot easily deal with such distributional consequences.  Fiscal transfers are thus an important element of a
successful monetary union. They are sizeable in Canada,
representing 8 per cent of GDP across all levels of government.  Canada’s equalization program helps stabilize the impact of
asymmetric shocks. For example, between 2006 and 2011, federal
support programs, including equalization payments and Canadian
social and health transfers, grew more rapidly for provinces
whose economies were hardest hit by the crisis.  The Employment Insurance program also shares risk. Through
transfers to  2 per cent of the working-age population, the
program particularly benefits provinces with higher unemployment
rates.  In the medium term, one of the building blocks of European
fiscal federalism could be a pan-European employment insurance
scheme built on a common European labour market. This would
reduce impediments for those looking across the continent for
work, while providing a cross-country automatic stabilizer.  Labour market flexibility  For Canada and Canadians to work, workers must be able to
move to different jobs, and wages must adjust to help maintain
full employment.  By international standards, the Canadian labour market is
highly flexible, although there is still room for improvement.
Our labour mobility as a whole is similar to that in the United
States. By some estimates, the Canadian labour market is almost
four times as flexible as the European labour market.  An obvious example of this flexibility is the way that
Canadians have responded to the higher wages and employment
opportunities in the energy sector. Last year, there was a net
inflow of more than 40,000 people into Alberta from the rest of
Canada, a level of mobility that approaches its previous peak.  As a consequence, labour markets are becoming more similar
across the provinces. In particular, the dispersion of
employment rates in Canada has fallen steadily over the past 30
years to levels comparable with those in the United States.
Again the contrast with Europe, where it has risen
substantially, is striking.  Bank of Canada research suggests that the main reason
behind these improvements has been the increased sensitivity of
provincial population growth to labour market opportunities --
Canadians are going where the jobs are.  Finally, wages are flexible in Canada. Results from the
Bank of Canada’s wage setting survey indicate that, while firms
are typically reluctant to reduce base wages, incentive pay
offers a possible source of downward flexibility in total
compensation. About 90 per cent of Canadian private sector firms
currently use short-term incentive pay plans. Such risk sharing
is an effective way to maintain employment and profitability
during uncertain and volatile times.  A Resilient Financial System  An important lesson from Europe’s experience is the
critical role that a sound financial system plays in the
monetary policy transmission mechanism. It helps to ensure that
changes in central bank policy are transmitted effectively to
all regions to support growth and employment. When a sizeable
share of a country’s banking sector has (or is perceived to
have) deficient capital and liquidity positions, credit doesn’t
flow to where it is needed.  Recent experience in Europe has shown the particular
problems a monetary union faces when banks become less willing
to lend across borders within the union. This fragmentation has
reinforced the links between sovereign and bank solvency. As
European leaders now recognise, without major reforms to create
a banking union, EMU is fundamentally weakened.  In Canada, the existence of largely centralized prudential
regulation and deposit insurance pools risk across the country.
When combined with a large number of national banking
institutions, this greatly reduces the risk that localized
economic and financial disruptions impair provincial solvency.  Since the strength of the Canadian banking system has been
well documented, I will concentrate on Canada’s sound regulatory
framework. Its key elements are:  First, supervision is focused and proactive. Consolidated
prudential supervision is not burdened by other objectives such
as the promotion of home ownership or community reinvestment.
The staged intervention approach of the Office of the
Superintendent of Financial Institutions (OSFI) means it works
with institutions to correct problems at an early stage, while
they are still manageable.  Second, efforts to promote financial stability are
coordinated. Federal authorities consistently share information,
coordinate actions, and pool advice to the federal government on
financial sector policy. Most notable in this regard has been a
series of actions to slow the rate of increase in household
debt. The Bank of Canada also works with provincial authorities
to implement a number of global initiatives.  Third, Canada has clear and credible recovery and
resolution mechanisms, including lender-of-last-resort policies,
a deposit insurance scheme with risk-weighted premiums, and
bridge-banking powers that enable the rapid closure of failing
institutions and the swift re-opening of their viable
operations. In its most recent budget, the federal government
announced it will consult stakeholders on how best to implement
a bail-in regime to recapitalize failing Canadian banks that are
systemically important to our domestic economy through the very
rapid conversion of certain bank liabilities into regulatory
capital.  Fourth, bank capital regulation is prudent. Prior to the
crisis, Canadian capital requirements were higher than
international norms thanks to OSFI’s insistence that common
equity form a large share of required capital. Since the crisis,
Canadian banks have become considerably stronger. Their common
equity capital has increased by 80 per cent, or $77 billion, and
they already meet the new Basel III capital requirements six
full years ahead of schedule.  Finally, the entire financial framework is regularly
reviewed and updated, in accord with the statutory requirement
to renew the federal legislative and regulatory framework for
the financial system every five years. This has proven
invaluable given the pace of change in the financial system. In
addition, Canada’s regulatory system is subject to regular,
rigorous external examinations.  A Massive and Disciplined Policy Response  Allow me to review. The structure of the Canadian economy,
the risk sharing across the federation, labour market
flexibility and financial stability together meant that Canada
could adjust quickly to the shock of the global financial
crisis.  It also meant that when Canadian policy-makers responded,
they were able to do so swiftly and massively.  During the crisis, the Bank of Canada aggressively cut our
policy rate until it reached one-quarter of one per cent, the
lowest it can effectively go. The Bank then provided
extraordinary guidance on the likely path of interest rates
necessary to achieve the inflation target in order to maximise
the monetary stimulus from its policy rate.  Canada’s inflation-targeting regime was a critical anchor
during those turbulent times. It gave the Bank a simple,
unwavering goal to guide its policy actions. It provided
financial markets and Canadians with a clear means to understand
why the Bank did what it did. And that understanding kept
inflation expectations well anchored around the 2 per cent
target throughout the period, maximising the stimulative impact
of our policies.  Although fiscal policy is always less nimble than monetary
policy, it also responded aggressively. Government expenditures
rose by almost 3 percentage points of GDP within a year, with
government contributing about one-third of GDP growth in 2010.  The effectiveness of fiscal policy was underpinned by
Canada’s strong fiscal position.  From the mid-1990s onwards, successive governments ran more
than a decade of surpluses, cutting the government debt-to-GDP
ratio from almost 70 per cent in 1995 to 22 per cent in 2008. As
a result, Canada’s net debt relative to GDP went from being the
second-highest ratio among the G-7 countries in 1995 to the
lowest.  This fiscal flexibility provided leeway for governments to
respond while maintaining our credit standing at the highest
levels.  Having clear policy frameworks has disciplined the post-crisis response. Fiscal consolidation has begun, with the
combined deficits of all levels of government falling from 4.8
per cent in 2009 to an expected 2.8 per cent this year.  Disciplined by its inflation target and reflecting the
relative strength of the economy, the Bank of Canada was the
only G-7 central bank not to engage in quantitative easing, and
we have been the only one to move away from emergency settings
of interest rates. In addition, mindful of the risks to
financial stability arising from rapid increases in household
debt, the Bank has maintained a tightening bias on interest
rates over the past year, in part to complement efforts of the
federal government and OSFI to achieve a constructive evolution
of household debt.  Conclusion  In the immediate aftermath of the crisis, the broad
economic strategy in Canada has been to grow domestic demand and
to encourage Canadian businesses to retool and reorient to the
new global economy.  Stimulative monetary and fiscal policies proved highly
effective in supporting robust growth in domestic demand,
particularly household expenditures, which grew to record
levels.  As effective as it has been, the limits of this growth
model have been clear for some time. We cannot grow indefinitely
by relying on Canadian households increasing their borrowing
relative to income. Nor can residential investment remain near a
record share of GDP, particularly given signs of overbuilding
and overvaluation in segments of the real estate market.  Domestic demand, which pulled Canada out of the recession,
is now slowing. Consumer spending is expected to grow at a
moderate pace over the next few years. The Bank expects
residential investment to decline further from historically high
levels. The contribution of direct government expenditures
should be modest for some time, consistent with the ongoing need
to consolidate budgetary positions.  Thus, the challenge for Canada is to rotate the sources of
growth toward net exports and business investment.
Exports are currently more than $130 billion less than they
would have been had this been a “typical” postwar recovery.  In the short term, the Bank forecasts some rebalancing and
a pickup in real GDP growth. However, relative to previous
cycles, investment is expected to remain below average and the
contribution of net exports to be very weak.  Is that really the best we can do?  Yes, there are immense uncertainties in the world economy,
but we need to focus on what we can control. We cannot save the
euro or fix America’s fiscal challenges.  Should we just wait out a decade-long deleveraging process
in the rest of the G-7? Or should we control our destiny by
building on our strengths in the new global environment?  To find and compete in new markets will require a
concerted, multi-year effort by workers, firms and governments.
These efforts should be guided by three principles.  Openness is better than protectionism. Trade brings
innovation, growth and jobs. That is why Canada is pursuing a
series of bilateral trade discussions with economies such as the
European Union and  India , and will participate in the
multilateral negotiations of the Trans-Pacific Partnership
involving a number of Asian countries. Emerging-market economies
do not just account for one-half of all of Canada’s import
growth, they also are essential to securing our positions in
global supply chains.  Economic flexibility is essential. Markets change,
industries rise and fall, exciting new products emerge and then
become commoditized. In a rapidly shifting world, only sustained
education, ingenuity and investment can maintain
competitiveness. This means we must continuously invest in our
workforce. With technology and trade transforming the workplace,
the need to improve skills across the spectrum of work has never
been greater.  Sound macroeconomic policy is the cornerstone of
prosperity. Fiscal profligacy erodes economic sovereignty; price
stability is paramount.  The advantages I have discussed today are self-reinforcing.
Our monetary union - with its resilient, national financial
system at its core - gives monetary and fiscal policy traction.
A strong fiscal position means that Canadian governments have
had the flexibility to respond as needed. Our principles-based
macroeconomic policy frameworks help ensure that extraordinary
actions do not give rise to extraordinary fears. And the
discipline they instil means that stimulus will be withdrawn
appropriately as threats diminish.  All of this has meant that, unlike the rest of the G-7,
Canada does not need to repair.  To keep Canada working, we need to build.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Mayeda Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  