-- Best Buy Has $81 Million First-Quarter Loss on Price Cuts
-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 2013-05-21T20:54:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/best-buy-has-81-million-first-quarter-loss-on-price-cuts.html
Best Buy Co. (BBY) , the world’s largest
consumer-electronics retailer, posted an $81 million first-quarter net loss as the company lowers prices to compete with
online rivals.  The loss of 24 cents a share in the quarter ended May 4
compares with net income of $158 million, or 46 cents, a year
earlier, the Richfield, Minnesota-based company said today in a
statement. Sales by stores at least 14 months fell 1.3 percent.  Chief Executive Officer Hubert Joly, hired in August to
turn Best Buy around, made permanent its holiday policy of
matching Internet competitors’ prices to win back sales from
 Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  That contributed to the company’s gross margin -
- the portion of sales left after subtracting the cost of goods
sold -- shrinking about 1.8 percentage points to 23.1 percent.
Analysts projected 24.3 percent.  “The magnitude of the gross margin decline is likely to
give investors pause around the pace of the overhaul,”  Colin McGranahan , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in New
York, wrote today in a note. He rates Best Buy market perform,
the equivalent of a hold.  Best Buy slipped 4.4 percent to $25.64 at the close in New
York. The shares have more than doubled this year, the second-best performance in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index behind
 Netflix Inc. (NFLX)   Joly Plans  When Joly took over in September, Best Buy was resisting a
takeover bid by founder Richard Schulze and was headed for its
first-ever annual revenue decline. Analysts project another two
years of falling sales, signaling Joly, 53, has yet to prove the
retailer won’t lose relevance as consumers evaluate goods at
stores and go online to buy them cheaper.  “For all of Best Buy’s attractiveness, it’s speculative,”
said Jerry Bruni, who manages about 337,000 Best Buy shares as
founder and chief investment officer of J.V. Bruni & Co. in
 Colorado Springs ,  Colorado . “They are making all the right
steps. But it’s really early in the game in terms of an
operational turnaround.”  Best Buy cut $175 million in expenses in the quarter, in
part by eliminating workers across the company, Matt Furman, a
spokesman, said today by telephone. He declined to specify the
number of job cuts and said store employees weren’t among the
reductions. The company trimmed costs by $150 million in the
previous quarter.  Excluding the company’s discontinued European operations,
restructuring charges and asset impairments, Best Buy had a
first-quarter profit of 32 cents a share. Analysts projected 24
cents, the average of 23  estimates  in a Bloomberg survey.  Chinese Stores  After hiring Meng Zhou as CEO of its Five Star appliance
and electronics chain in  China , Best Buy plans to improve its
stores and online and digital operations, Joly said today in a
telephone interview.  “The question of staying or going is not on the table,”
Joly said, referring to China. “We are going to watch. We have
more than 200 stores in China. It happens to be the fastest-growing electronics market in the whole world.”  Best Buy doesn’t plan to sell its Canadian stores, either,
Joly said.  Last year, Best Buy halted the expansion of test stores
dressed up with skylights and other improvements after Joly
concluded they weren’t delivering enough sales to justify the
costs, he told reporters last month in  New York . Instead, he
made less-expensive changes in existing stores, giving more
space to the biggest sellers such as smartphones, tablets,
appliances and accessories.  Carphone Sale  The company announced last month it agreed to sell its 50-percent stake in a joint venture selling mobile phones in  Europe 
with Carphone Warehouse Plc.  Best Buy shares hit a 12-year closing low of $11.29 on Dec.
28, capping the fourth annual decline in the previous five
years. Then the shares began rebounding as holiday sales
stabilized with discounts on smartphones and the price-matching
policy.  Schulze, who owns 20 percent of Best Buy, failed in his
takeover bid in February. A month later, he returned to the
board as chairman emeritus, with an office for life, regular
meetings with Joly and a requirement to notify the CEO when he
plans to visit the office.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  