-- Billionaire Dart’s Argentine Unit Raided by Tax Agents
-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 2013-05-21T21:11:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/billionaire-dart-s-argentine-foam-cup-unit-raided-by-tax-agents.html
Argentina ’s tax agency sent 50
officials to the local unit of billionaire Kenneth Dart’s Dart
Container Corp. as part of an investigation into  tax evasion  and
accused him of financing anti-government protests.  Dart Sudamericana SRL, in the province of Buenos Aires were
raided by tax and customs agents seeking proof of over-billing
of imports last year, Customs General Director Siomara Ayeran
said outside the Dart plant in Pilar, 50 kilometers (31 miles)
north of Buenos Aires.  The transactions enabled the company to reduce its tax
liabilities and funnel funds to related companies abroad, and
also “to finance activities against our government, like the
so-called cacerolazos,” Ayeran said, referring to rallies at
which protesters bang pots and pans.  Since her re-election in 2011, President  Cristina Fernandez
de Kirchner  has cracked down on capital flight and tax evasion.
Last year,  tax revenue  rose to a record 808 billion pesos ($158
billion), or 37 percent of gross domestic product. The 60-year-old president has also called holdout creditors such as Dart,
who are trying to collect in full on their defaulted bonds,
“vultures.”  ‘Cooperating Fully’  Dart, president of Mason, Michigan-based Dart Container,
the world’s largest maker of foam cups, is seeking $700 million
from Argentina for the country’s 2001 debt default through his
EM Ltd. fund, the tax agency, known as AFIP, said in an e-mailed
 statement . Dart gave up his U.S. citizenship in the 1990s to
avoid taxes and moved to the  Cayman Islands .  “Dart Sudamericana is cooperating fully with Argentina’s
AFIP in their request for information,” Margo Burrage, a Dart
spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed response to questions. “It is
our corporate policy to comply with all Argentine laws and
regulations.”  EM and NML Capital Ltd., an affiliate of the New York-based
hedge fund Elliott Management Corp. run by billionaire investor
 Paul Singer , are pressing a multi-front case against Argentina.
The dispute stems from the South American country’s default on
$95 billion of bonds.  U.S. Courts  The funds have been seeking to enforce $2 billion in
judgments they won in U.S. court cases.  AFIP earlier this year accused the local unit of HSBC
Holdings Plc. of conspiracy to hide bank accounts, thereby
helping private companies evade tax payments and launder money.
The tax agency also alleges that grains exporters including
Cargill Inc. and  Bunge Ltd. (BG)  owe the state almost $1 billion in
taxes.  Locked out of international credit markets since its
default, Argentina depends on tax collection and central bank
reserves to finance  government spending  and pay foreign debt.
The tax and customs agency has used dollar-sniffing dogs at
ports to detect travelers carrying large amounts of money.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eliana Raszewski in  Buenos Aires  at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  