-- Birla Corp to Boost Capacity as Real Estate Recovers
-- B y   S h a r a n g   L i m a y e
-- 2013-05-22T04:21:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/birla-corp-to-boost-capacity-as-real-estate-recovers.html
Birla Corp. (BCORP) , an Indian cement maker
that reported its first profit increase in three years this
week, plans to spend 22 billion rupees ($397 million) to add
capacity, forecasting demand will revive.  The company, based in Kolkata, will increase its capability
to make the construction material by 48 percent to 13.8 million
tons a year by 2015, Executive President G. Jayaraman said in an
interview in Hyderabad. Birla, which sells 80 percent of its
cement to home builders, will set up three plants to add to its
seven factories, he said.  Birla, founded in 1919 as a maker of jute products, and
larger rivals including  Holcim Ltd. (HOLN)  are expanding on optimism
lower borrowing costs will rekindle demand from homebuyers after
a slowdown propelled unsold apartments to a record in the final
quarter of last year. The  Reserve Bank  of  India  may cut its
policy rate by another quarter point in 2013 after three
reductions since January, economists’ forecast.  “The RBI has finally started cutting rates, which will
allow young, aspirational buyers to look to invest in real
estate,” Jayaraman said. “We have seen our fair share of
slowdown in the last few years. Now, the time has come to head
upwards.”  The maker of Samrat and Chetak brands of cement forecasts
sales will increase 56 percent to 40 billion rupees by the year
ending March 31, 2016, according to Jayaraman.  The company’s  profit  rose 13 percent to 2.7 billion rupees
in the 12 months to March 31, the first increase since 2010,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Analyst Recommendations  Birla’s  shares , which have dropped 11 percent this year,
rose 0.9 percent to 267.65 rupees at 9:48 a.m. in  Mumbai . All 11
analysts covering the company  recommend  investors buy the stock,
data show.  The shares  trade  at 5.7 times its 12-month earnings,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with 17.9
times for  UltraTech Cement Ltd. (UTCEM) , India’s biggest maker of the
construction material by market value, and 15.8 times for  ACC
Ltd. (ACC)   ACC, controlled by Holcim, the world’s biggest cement
maker, is spending 33 billion rupees to add 5 million tons of
capacity by 2015, it said in its  annual report . Birla is
awaiting government approvals before starting work on the new
factories planned in the states of  Madhya Pradesh , Assam and
Rajasthan, Jayaraman said.  Home Prices  Home prices  in Mumbai, India’s most expensive real estate
market, rose to a record 11,626 rupees a square foot in the
quarter ended March 31, according to data from Liases Foras Real
Estate Rating & Research Pvt., driven by speculation demand will
pick up.  Total unsold inventory of residential stock in the six
major cities tracked by Liases Foras climbed to 100 million
square feet (9.3 million square meters), the highest since 2009.  Property developers such as  Parsvnath Developers Ltd. (PARSV)  are
introducing new plans for buyers to sweeten offers, including
one that allows buyers to pay 25 percent of the property’s cost
on booking, and the rest while taking possession with no extra
cost built in and no loans involved.  The property sector will show a much faster recovery than
the demand to build roads and ports “because it doesn’t face
the regulatory hurdles like land acquisition and environmental
issues that infrastructure projects do,” Jayaraman said. “That
augurs well for us as we are focused on real estate.”  Court Order  Birla’s sales fell for the first time in seven quarters on
lower prices of the construction material. The company’s
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
fell 19 percent to 388 rupees a ton, Ankur Kulshrestha, an
analyst with HDFC Securities Ltd. said in a note to investors
yesterday.  A court order banning mining of limestone at its biggest
plant in Chanderia in Rajasthan state may affect profitability.
The company had to purchase raw material at a “substantially
higher cost,” which “severely dented margins,” Birla said in
a statement on May 20. The nation’s top court asked the Central
Building Research Institute to report on the effect of the
company’s mining on a nearby  fort  built in the 7th century.  If and once they allow mechanical mining, “we will be able
to meet our requirements,” Jayaraman said.  Operating Margin  An adverse court ruling will prompt the company to seek raw
material from at least 10 kilometers (6.2 miles) away, said
Milind Raginwar, an analyst with SBI Capital Markets Ltd.
Birla’s operating profit margin narrowed to 11.3 percent in the
year ended March 31, while UltraTech’s widened to 18 percent.  “Their raw material cost is higher, due to the ban on
mining at Chanderia unit,” said Raginwar. “If this continues,
the margins will remain under pressure vis-a-vis the industry.”  The cement maker, part of the Madhav Prasad Birla group
which also runs a maker of optical fiber cables, forecasts
economic expansion will help improve profitability amid rising
costs. India’s $1.8 trillion economy may expand as much as 6.7
percent in the year that started April 1, Finance Minister
Palaniappan Chidambaram said last month.  Gross domestic product increased 5 percent in the previous
12 months, the smallest gain since 2002-2003, official estimates
released in February show. The central bank may cut its
benchmark  interest rate  to 7 percent by the end of the year from
7.25 percent to boost growth, according to a median forecast of
38 economists in a Bloomberg survey.  “We haven’t had too much of joy in terms of pricing
recently given the demand scenario,” Jayaraman said. “But,
with sentiment improving, we may be able to pass on some of our
cost burden to the consumers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharang Limaye in Hyderabad at 
 slimaye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Arijit Ghosh at 
 aghosh@bloomberg.net  