-- BlackRock to Buy Real Estate Firm MGPA for Asia Expansion
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s   a n d   B e i   H u
-- 2013-05-21T08:27:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/blackrock-to-buy-real-estate-firm-mgpa-for-asia-expansion.html
BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s largest
asset manager, agreed to buy private-equity property investment
advisory firm  MGPA  for an undisclosed amount to expand real-estate business in the Asia-Pacific region and Europe.  MGPA manages about $12 billion, focusing on real estate
funds management, co-investments and separate-account mandates
for institutional investors, BlackRock said today in a
statement. The transaction is expected to close in the third
quarter and won’t materially affect BlackRock’s  earnings  per
share, the New York-based firm said.  BlackRock, led by Chief Executive Officer Laurence D. Fink,
has  expanded  into private equity, real estate, energy and hedge
funds as investors seek to diversify beyond stock and bond
funds. MGPA employs 220 people in 13 offices in the Asia-Pacific
region and Europe, including cities such as  Shanghai , Kuala
Lumpur and Warsaw.  “The addition of MGPA to BlackRock is an important step in
the evolution of our Asia-based investment capabilities and is
aligned with the growth of our Asia-Pacific franchise,”  Mark McCombe , BlackRock’s Asia-Pacific chairman, said in a separate
statement.  Filling Void  The acquisition will fill a void for BlackRock in the
region with fast economic growth and an expanding middle class,
McCombe, a former HSBC Holdings Plc executive who joined
BlackRock in September 2011, said in a telephone interview from
New York today.  BlackRock’s $13 billion existing real estate investment
business is focused on the U.S. and the U.K., he said, adding
that the money manager doesn’t have such a team or investments
in Asia.  In contrast, about two-thirds of MGPA’s assets have been
deployed in Asia, where the firm has made about 130 investments
over the years, McCombe said.  MGPA is also an attractive opportunity because of its high-quality management team, McCombe said. BlackRock plans to retain
MGPA’s entire team, he said. John Saunders, MGPA’s Asia chief
executive officer, will remain in the role, he added.  Alternative Investments  The expanded real estate business will cater to pension and
sovereign wealth funds as well as family offices and private
banks, McCombe said. Insurance companies are also looking for
longer-duration assets to match their liabilities, he said.  BlackRock’s clients are looking to deploy more capital to
alternative investments such as private equity and real estate
in addition to products that seek to profit from taking market
risks amid the prevailing low yields on bonds and swings in
equities historically, McCombe said.  McCombe said he sees property investment opportunities in
Southeast Asia in addition to  Japan . Investors have to be very
selective as they navigate  China ’s massive market, he said.  BlackRock built its alternatives business through
 acquisitions , adding private equity with its purchase of Merrill
Lynch & Co.’s investment unit in 2006 and the hedge fund-of-funds business from Quellos Group LLC in 2007. Last year, the
firm bought a fund-of-funds unit from Swiss Re Ltd., which
invests client money in private-equity partnerships.  BlackRock managed $3.9 trillion of assets globally at the
end of March, according to today’s statement.  MGPA has operated in Asia since 1999, it said in a
statement last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in New York at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  