-- Block Says China Banks’ Bad Loans Spread Beyond Government Debt
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-05-21T03:27:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/block-says-china-banks-bad-loans-spread-beyond-government-debt.html
Carson Block , the short seller who
runs Muddy Waters LLC, said  China ’s bad-loan problem is more
widespread than just local government debt and includes public
and private sector borrowing.  Non-performing loan “figures greatly understate the
potential scope of the problem of poor-quality loans,” Block
said in an e-mail. “We believe that the PRC banking system will
be hit hard by the unwind, and that the government will be
forced to recapitalize a number of the banks.”  Chinese banks are grappling with rising defaults and
slowing profit growth as regulators ease controls over loan
pricing and deposits to spur competition. The country’s soured
debt, which has risen for six straight quarters, in part
prompted Block to bet against the bonds of  Standard Chartered 
Plc, the U.K. bank that earns most of its profit in  Asia .  Bad debt in China climbed to 526.5 billion  yuan  ($86
billion) in the three months through March, marking the longest
deterioration streak in at least nine years, according to
regulatory data released this month.  China’s largest lenders are state-owned and that makes
shorting the country’s banks “somewhat difficult,” Block said
in the e-mailed reply to queries.  The government owns stakes in the nation’s biggest banks
including  China Construction Bank Corp. (939)  through the Ministry of
Finance as well as Central Huijin Investment Ltd., a unit of
sovereign wealth fund China Investment Corp.  Block said May 10 he’s betting against Standard Chartered’s
debt because of deteriorating loan quality. The London-based
bank’s lack of state support and an emerging-market loan book
that’s “highly exposed to  significant negative developments in
China” were reasons Block shorted the lender, he said in the e-mail.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Allen Wan in Shanghai at 
 awan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  