-- BofA Sells Largest Apple-Tied Note as Stock Drop Dulls Appeal
-- B y   K e v i n   D u g a n
-- 2013-05-21T20:47:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/bofa-sells-largest-apple-tied-note-as-stock-drop-dulls-appeal.html
Bank of America Corp.  sold $148
million of one-year notes tied to  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , the largest such
offering in more than three years.  The securities, issued May 16, yield three times the gains
of the stock, with returns capped at 27.65 percent and all
capital at risk, according to a  prospectus  filed with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission. The  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based bank valued the notes at 97.1 cents on the dollar
at the time of sale.  Issuance of notes tied to Apple has declined from last
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Investors have
soured on the technology company amid falling market share and
questions about its ability to develop new innovative products,
said Oliver Pursche, president of Gary Goldberg Financial
Services in Suffern,  New York .  “Investor sentiment around the company right now is tilted
to the negative, and that’s keeping share prices down,”
Pursche, whose firm manages accounts that own Apple, said in a
telephone interview. “Most investors don’t know what to do with
the stock.”  Investors bought $443.4 million of Apple-linked notes this
year, 39 percent less than the $728.5 million in the first five
months of last year, Bloomberg data show. There were 99 such
offerings this year, down 52 percent.  Apple Notes  The offering is more than twice the size of the next-largest Apple-linked security, $65.5 million of one-year notes
sold by  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , according to data that Bloomberg
started to comprehensively collect in 2010.  The securities, issued Aug. 30, each quarter yield 3.39
percent as long as the stock isn’t below $531.248 and are called
if the shares exceed their initial value, according to a
 prospectus . If they are below the 20 percent buffer at maturity,
investors lose capital proportionate to the decline.  Apple closed at $442.93 yesterday, down 17 percent for the
year.  The JPMorgan notes have paid one coupon of 3.39 percent in
November and last traded for 66.3 cents on the dollar on May 21,
according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Susan McCabe, a spokeswoman for Bank of America, declined
to comment.  Justin Perras , a JPMorgan Chase spokesman, didn’t
return a voicemail seeking comment.  Banks create structured notes by packaging debt with
derivatives to offer customized bets to retail investors while
earning fees and raising money. Derivatives are contracts whose
value is derived from stocks, bonds, commodities and currencies,
or events such as changes in  interest rates  or the weather.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Dugan in New York at 
 kdugan4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  