-- Bond Spread Offers Opportunity for Profit, Standish’s Leduc Says
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2013-05-21T17:56:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/bond-spread-offers-opportunity-for-profit-standish-s-leduc-says.html
The gap in yields between benchmark
Treasuries and company debt leaves room for investors to earn
returns in fixed income, according to David Leduc, chief
investment officer at Standish Mellon Asset Management Co.  The differences in yield, which are about 140 basis points
for investment-grade company debt and more than 400 basis points
for high-yield bonds, are “close to long-term averages,”
Boston-based Leduc said in an interview of  Bloomberg Radio ’s
“Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and  Michael McKee .  “We’re still finding places to make relative and total
return in the  bond market ,” Leduc said. “If you look at the
fundamental dynamics of both of those two sectors, you have low
default rates, you have strong corporate earnings, you haven’t
seen a real significant increase in leverage.”  The Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S. Broad Market Index,
which tracks U.S. dollar-denominated investment-grade debt
publicly issued in the domestic market, including Treasury,
quasi-government, corporate, securitized and collateralized
securities, has lost 0.96 percent in May through yesterday. It
is on track for its worst month since December 2010, the month
after the  Federal Reserve  began its second round of Treasury
purchases, a policy known as qualitative easing.  The average gap between yields of Treasuries and corporate
bonds in the past three years has been 186 basis points while
the difference with high yield debt has been 597 basis points,
Bank of America indexes show. In the five years before the
financial crisis began in August 2007, the spreads averaged 112
basis points for higher-quality company securities and 455 basis
points for  junk bonds .  ‘Not Rich’  “The spread of those sectors is really not rich, it’s
really just the yield level that’s giving people problems,”
Leduc said. “We’re still in this extended period where we’re
going to have low growth rates owing to the fact that we have a
global economy that’s deleveraging.”  U.S. 10-year yields fell four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 1.93 percent as of 1:49 p.m. New York time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The yield touched
1.99 percent, the highest since March 15.  Under quantitative easing, the Fed is buying $85 billion a
month in bonds, split between $45 billion of  U.S. government
debt  and $40 billion of mortgage-backed securities. The central
bank pumped $2.3 trillion into the financial system from
2008-2011 in two rounds of QE.  “You’re in an unprecedented economic  environment  right now
and I think what it means is we expect growth to be lower than
we would normally expect from historical experience and in our
view  inflation  is less of an issue,” Leduc said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Kruger in  New York  at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  