-- Bond Love Endures for Investors Unconvinced Rally’s Over
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2013-05-21T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/bond-love-endures-for-investors-unconvinced-rally-s-over.html
Bill Gross , the world’s largest
fixed-income manager, says the bull market for bonds may have
ended last month. Investors are staying put.  Four years into the biggest rally in U.S. stocks since
2000, bond mutual funds are attracting more money than their
equity counterparts. After at least three warnings from Gross
that the fixed-income market has peaked, there’s no evidence of
what strategists including Michael Hartnett of Bank of America
Corp. have predicted would be a ``great rotation'' out of fixed
income into stocks.  “For the past 25 years, you’ve seen the stable decline of
interest rates and a level of comfort that bonds are the stable
asset,” Rick Rieder, New York-based BlackRock Inc.’s co-head of
fixed income in the Americas, said in an interview. “Money will
still flow into bond funds for the next couple of years because
of the tremendous need for income by an aging population.”  Investors are piling into fixed income as aggregate mutual-fund returns drop to a two-year low and money managers from
Gross to DoubleLine Capital LP’s  Jeffrey Gundlach  say that bond-market yields are shrinking.  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) ’s  Warren
Buffett  said this month that he “feels sorry” for fixed-income
investors and Bridgewater Associates LP’s Ray Dalio has called
bonds a “terrible” investment. Investors addicted to bonds
have missed a more than doubling of stock prices since 2009.  Gross’s Warning  Gross, co-chief investment officer of Pacific Investment
Management Co., said on May 10 that the bull market for bonds,
including Treasuries, corporate debt and mortgages, probably
ended in the last week of April as yields reached a low and
prices peaked. In March 2010, he said bonds may have seen their
best days and then eight months later that a renewal of asset
purchases by the U.S. Federal Reserve may signify an end to the
three-decade-long rally.  Since his first warning, investors have poured about $800
billion into bond mutual funds and exchange-traded funds
industrywide. Pimco, which manages $2.04 trillion, had record
deposits during the first quarter.  The extra yield over the safest government-backed debt that
investors demand to hold investment-grade corporate, government
and securitized debt fell to 53 basis points on April 29, the
day Gross said the bull market in bonds “likely ended,” from
78 basis points a year earlier, according to the Bank of America
Merrill Lynch Global Bond index. The narrowing gap, which stood
at 53 basis points on May 17, shows that investors are willing
to pay more for bonds. Spreads fell to 52 basis points on May 3,
the least since July 2010.  Bonds Trail  The Barclays U.S. Aggregate Index, among the most widely
used fixed-income benchmarks, advanced  0.01 percent  this year
through May 17. The average intermediate-term bond fund in the
U.S. rose 0.3 percent in the three months ended March 31, the
worst quarterly performance since the fourth quarter of 2010,
according to Chicago-based  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)   The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX) , by contrast, has surged 17
percent this year and has increased 146 percent since a low on
March 9, 2009. That’s the biggest rally since the 50 months
through March 27, 2000, when the index advanced 149 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  BlackRock, the world’s biggest money manager with $3.94
trillion in assets, and Western Asset Management Co., a unit of
 Legg Mason Inc. (LM) , said investors will keep their money in bond
funds for at least the next two years as they continue to think
of them as a safe haven. After getting burned by equities in
2008, when the S&P 500 plunged 38 percent, investors have been
slow to warm up to stock funds again. In the four years ended
2012, investors pulled $307 billion from equity mutual funds in
the U.S., according to the Washington-based Investment Company
Institute.  Irrational ‘Triskaidekaphobia’  “It’s basic human psychology if you go through a year like
2008 it will take a while to get comfortable with equities
again,” said Lee Spelman, head of U.S. equity client portfolio
managers at New York-based J.P. Morgan Asset Management, who has
given a presentation to clients entitled ‘Triskaidekaphobia,’
comparing the irrational fear of the number 13 to the fear of
the equity markets. “Every year for the last four years, people
have said the bond trade is over and yet it keeps going.”  Larry Swedroe, a 61-year-old managing principal at the BAM
Alliance, a partnership of about 145 registered investment
advisory firms, said he has about 70 percent of his portfolio
invested in municipal and taxable bonds and isn’t going to
adjust it.  Dampening Risk  “I don’t want to shift from very safe bonds whose purpose
is to dampen risk of the overall portfolio, protecting me in
years like 2008 so I don’t get hammered,” said Swedroe, who’s
based in St. Louis. “You just have to live with low interest
rates and think of that as an insurance premium against those
event risks.”  Equity mutual funds attracted an estimated $71 billion this
year through May 8, according to  data  from ICI. The deposits
haven’t come at the expense of bond mutual funds, which received
an estimated $86.3 billion. Investors are pulling money out of
money-market funds, which had redemptions of $101 billion in the
first quarter, ICI data show.  BlackRock (BLK)  said its clients won’t exit core bond funds and
will probably put new money into shorter-duration and more
flexible bond strategies. Western Asset, with $460 billion under
management, said the central bank’s accommodative policies will
help to keep interest rates from going above 2.5 percent, and
its stock affiliate, ClearBridge Investments, said without a
meaningful change in rates there won’t be a big transition to
stocks. Pimco’s parent  Allianz SE (ALV)  said it doesn’t see any
evidence of a so-called great rotation out of bonds.  No Rotation  “Because money-market outflows are the source of equity
inflows, there is no rotation from bonds into equities visible
so far,” Dieter Wemmer, chief financial officer of Allianz, a
Munich-based insurer, said May 15 in a presentation to analysts.  At Newport Beach, California-based Pimco, investors
deposited about $52 billion into its products in the first
quarter, an 84 percent jump from a year earlier, and the most
client deposits ever in a quarter, according to the Allianz
presentation. Pimco, which has more than 90 percent of its
assets in bond-related strategies, added a stock-fund unit as it
anticipated diminishing returns from the fixed-income market.  U.S. bond mutual funds more than doubled their assets to
$3.5 trillion as of March 31 from $1.56 trillion before the
financial crisis six years earlier, according to TrimTabs
Investment Research in Sausalito,  California . That compares with
an increase of only 6.5 percent for U.S. stock mutual funds to
$6.5 trillion.  ‘Large Disconnect’  “Despite numerous stock markets records, the excitement
that has accompanied the markets’ solid returns has not, and is
not, anxiety free for investors,” Mohamed El-Erian, Pimco’s
chief executive officer and co-chief investment officer with
Gross, said in an e-mail. “This is a reflection of the large
disconnect between the exuberance of markets and the more
sluggish real economy, the experimental policies of a growing
set of central banks, political dysfunction and pockets of geo-political risk.”  The bond market is entering a “12-month period of time
ahead in which, combined, Treasury, corporate and high yields
don’t move much,” Gross said in a May 16 Bloomberg Television
interview. He said May 10 that fixed-income returns will
probably be in the range of 2 percent to 3 percent.  Pimco doesn’t expect the end of the 30-year rally to be
like the drop in 1994, when the Federal Reserve raised interest
rates more than forecast and Treasuries lost 3.35 percent. The
firm is advising clients to consider emerging-market debt and
strategies that are unconstrained by maturity, credit quality or
region.  Dalio, Gundlach  Bridgewater’s Dalio told CNBC on May 17 that central bank
asset purchases have made cash and bonds poor investments.
DoubleLine’s Gundlach said in April he expects broad fixed-income benchmarks to return just more than 1 percent in the 12
months ending July. Buffett said at Berkshire Hathaway’s May 4
shareholder meeting he sympathizes with people who stuck with
bonds amid low interest rates.  Deleveraging by developed economies coupled with central
bank purchases means there will be a limited supply of bonds
available to investors, which will keep rates low for at least
five years, said BlackRock’s Rieder.  Only a dramatic change in global growth, inflation or
central bank policies would result in investors pulling out of
bond funds in a big way, said Steve Walsh, co-chief investment
officer for  Pasadena , California-based Western Asset. That isn’t
likely to happen as the Fed has said it will continue
quantitative easing, or bond purchases to stimulate the economy,
until mid-2015 or 2016, he said.  Fed policy makers will meet on June 18-19 and Fed Bank of
Philadelphia President Charles Plosser reiterated his view on
May 16 that the central bank should begin to curtail bond
purchases this year.  ‘Cumulative Fatigue’  A gradual increase in interest rates correlated to a better
economic environment will be beneficial for stock deposits, said
Vinay Nadkarni, head of financial-intermediary distribution at
New York-based equity manager ClearBridge Investments, which has
$68.1 billion in assets. ClearBridge had the most net deposits
in the first quarter since it was acquired by Legg Mason in
2005, which are coming mostly from investors moving out of cash,
Nadkarni said.  “There’s the cumulative fatigue of the trillion on
corporate balance sheets and in retail money-market funds
earning zero,” he said. “Fixed income doesn’t have to lose for
us to win.”  A trigger for money flowing into stock funds from money-market funds as well as bond funds may be from investors who buy
dividend-paying stocks for the yield component and then are
pleasantly surprised by the capital appreciation, said Brian
Hogan, president of the equity group at Boston-based Fidelity
Investments, the second-biggest U.S. mutual-fund company.  “The last 30 years have been a very favorable environment
for fixed-income investing,” Hogan said. “Some of the macro
concerns still persist, so I think the backdrop we’ve seen in
the fixed-income landscape has created an environment where
folks are very comfortable with their fixed-income exposure.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in в Нью Йорке at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  