-- Borg Tells Swedish Banks to Gird for Buffer Rule Topping 12%
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m   a n d   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2013-05-21T11:15:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/borg-tells-swedish-banks-12-capital-requirement-may-be-raised.html
Swedish Finance Minister  Anders Borg 
said  Sweden ’s banks need to prepare for even stricter capital
rules than those due to be enforced from 2015.  A requirement that Sweden’s four largest banks hold at
least 12 percent core Tier 1 capital of their risk-weighted
assets by 2015 may be too lax, Borg said today in  Stockholm . The
government, led by Prime Minister  Fredrik Reinfeldt , should look
into tightening bank regulation further over the next five to 10
years, he said.  “We’re about to raise  capital requirements ; we won’t back
down,” Borg said. “There are possibly reasons” to look into
“taking a few further steps on capital requirements,” he said.  Sweden is defending its right to impose some of  Europe ’s
harshest capital standards to shield taxpayers. Borg has
rejected bank industry pleas to adhere to more harmonized
capital rules, arguing nations with oversized financial
industries face a higher risk of losses. Sweden’s four biggest
banks, including Nordea Bank AB, have assets that are more than
four times the size of the $500 billion economy.  The government will ensure that steps toward tightening
bank requirements further will protect the economy from a
decline in lending, Borg said.  Risk Weights  Borg also said there are “probably good reasons” for the
financial regulator to revisit its initial plan to triple risk
weights on banks’ mortgage assets to 15 percent, signaling a
higher level may be necessary. The central bank has proposed 20
percent as a safer level, Borg said.  Shares in Sweden’s four biggest banks traded down.  Swedbank
AB (SWEDA)  lost 1.4 percent, while Nordea and SEB AB both lost 0.6
percent as of 12:50 p.m. in Stockholm. Svenska Handelsbanken AB
dropped 0.5 percent. The lenders lost more than Sweden’s
benchmark OMXS30 Index, which slipped 0.3 percent.  Some of Sweden’s biggest banks have argued the government’s
approach is hurting their ability to lend. Without harmonized
capital rules, banks will suffer competitive distortions, Nordea
Chief Executive Officer  Christian Clausen  has repeatedly warned.
Clausen, who is also president of the European Banking
Federation, said in February lenders need “one rule book.”  Sweden’s four biggest banks need to hold at least 10
percent core Tier 1 capital of their risk-weighted assets this
year, and no less than 12 percent by 2015. That compares with
Basel III’s 7 percent requirement by 2019 and a 9 percent
minimum standard for some European banks.  Sweden’s biggest banks already exceed the country’s capital
requirements. Nordea reported a 13.2 percent core Tier 1 ratio
of risk-weighted assets for the first quarter, under Basel II
rules. At Swedbank AB, the ratio was 17.3 percent while SEB AB
had 15.3 percent, by that measure. Under Basel III regulation,
 Svenska Handelsbanken AB (SHBA)  had a 17.5 percent ratio while Swedbank
and SEB had 16.4 percent and 13.4 percent, respectively.  ‘Raised Substantially’  Some of Sweden’s most influential economists have argued in
favor of requiring banks to hold 20 percent capital relative to
their risk-weighted assets. Assar Lindbeck, a research fellow at
the Research Institute of Industrial Economics and one of the
main architects behind Sweden’s budget surplus rule, said in an
interview last month existing capital requirements should be
“raised substantially.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net ;
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman in Stockholm at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  