-- Brazil’s Real Weakens as Central Bank Refrains From Intervening
-- B y   M a r i s a   C a s t e l l a n i   a n d   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-05-21T22:37:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/brazilian-real-declines-as-rising-u-s-bond-yields-siphon-money.html
Brazil ’s real dropped a sixth day,
extending its longest losing streak in two months, as the
central bank refrained from intervening to prop up the currency.  The real fell 0.1 percent to 2.0404 per  U.S. dollar  in Sao
Paulo, the weakest level since Jan. 22. It swung between gains
and losses as a Federal Reserve official supported the
continuation of a stimulus program. Swap rates on the contract
due in January 2015 decreased four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 8.52 percent.  Brazil’s currency appreciated as much as 0.3 percent in
intraday trading after St. Louis Fed President  James Bullard 
said in the text of remarks prepared for delivery in  Frankfurt 
that the U.S. monetary authority should maintain its program of
bond buying because it’s the best available option for policy
makers to boost lower-than-expected growth.  Investors assume Brazilian policy makers “can act at this
level, because inflation control is a priority,” Italo
Abucater, head of  currency trading  at ICAP do Brasil, said by
phone from Sao Paulo. “But they have no obligation to
intervene.”  Tombini told members of Congress in Brasilia today that
policy makers will act to ensure that inflation slows in the
second half of this year.  “The central bank is vigilant and will do what’s necessary
in a timely fashion to make inflation decline in the second half
and to ensure this trend will last in the coming years,”
Tombini said, repeating language used last week in Rio Janeiro.  Target Rate  Inflation in the biggest emerging market after  China  is
just below the 6.5 percent upper limit of the central bank’s
target range even after growth slowed for two straight years.  Brazil’s central bank raised the target lending rate last
month by a quarter-percentage point to 7.50 percent to contain
inflation after policy makers lowered borrowing costs by 5.25
percentage points in cuts that began in August 2011 to support
economic growth. The board is next scheduled to meet May 28-29.  “The market is still as lost as before,” Luis Otavio de Souza Leal, the chief economist at Banco ABC Brasil SA in  Sao
Paulo , said in a telephone interview. “I think the market will
remain in doubt until the meeting next week.”  The real dropped 0.7 percent against the dollar last week,
sending it for the first time since March outside the so-called
trading envelope, which typically indicates that a decline will
be difficult to sustain.  Policy makers have fluctuated over the past few months
between selling currency swaps to prevent the real from falling
too much and offering reverse swaps to protect exporters by
reining in gains. The measures have kept the real in a range of
1.94 and 2.05 per dollar this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marisa Castellani in Sao Paulo at 
 mcastellani7@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  