-- Bulgaria’s Gerb Appeals Vote Before Being Asked to Form Cabinet
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 2013-05-21T14:45:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/bulgaria-s-gerb-appeals-vote-before-being-asked-to-form-cabinet.html
Bulgaria’s former ruling Gerb party
of Boyko Borissov appealed the elections on the day parliament
convened after falling short of an outright majority to form a
Cabinet in May 12 elections.  President Rosen Plevneliev will meet for consultations with
the four parties represented in the assembly on May 23 and ask
Borissov to form a Cabinet, Plevneliev said at parliament’s
opening session in the capital Sofia today.  Gerb is asking the
 Constitutional Court  to annul the ballot because its rivals
alleged vote fraud the day before polls opened, he said.  “Even though we won, we are contesting the elections,
because no victory can be based on a violation of the law,”
Borissov told lawmakers. “We continue to be the first political
force after ruling for four years in the conditions of a most
severe economic crisis.”  Bulgaria, the European Union’s poorest nation, is
struggling to emerge from political turmoil that started with
anti-austerity protests that forced out Borissov’s government in
February. Unlike its regional peers, Bulgaria survived the
global financial crisis without an international bailout.  “We are in an economic, social, political and
parliamentary crisis,” Plevneliev said. “I hope parliament
will soon approve a government of competent people with a clear
program.”  He urged parliament to adopt a document outlining its
priorities over the four-year term, which include liberalizing
the energy market, boosting investment, employment and the
economy and preserving macro-economic stability.  Another Election  Gerb won 97 seats, falling short of the 121 votes needed
for an outright majority in the 240-member legislature.
Borissov said he will form a minority Cabinet while the appeal
proceeds.  Borissov’s deputy, Tsvetan Tsvetanov, who served as
interior minister in his Cabinet, gave up his parliamentary
immunity today to allow an investigation of his alleged
involvement in wire-tapping a possible conversation between
Borissov, Sofia City Prosecutor Nikolai Kokinov and former
Agriculture Minister Miroslav Naidenov on interference with an
abuse-of-power probe against Naidenov.  The recording was leaked in April to the media, including
Presa newspaper. Kokinov resigned on April 27, a day after tape
transcripts were published.  “I submitted my written agreement to relinquish my
immunity,” Tsvetanov told reporters in Sofia today. “I will
cooperate with authorities to the fullest extent.”  Socialists’ Plan  The Bulgarian Socialist Party, which trails Gerb with 84
seats, will be asked to form a Cabinet should Gerb fail.  The Socialists and the ethnic Turk Movement for Rights and
Freedoms, with its 36 seats, said they are prepared to form a
coalition, while the radical nationalist Attack party said they
won’t support any government. The Movement ruled out a coalition
with Gerb.  The Socialists have proposed former Finance Minister Plamen Oresharski as premier and drafted a program intended to boost
economic growth and demand, Socialist leader Sergei Stanishev
said in an interview with BTV in Sofia today.  The plan includes reimbursing value-added tax to companies
at an estimated cost of 350 million lev ($230 million) and
repaying about 100 million lev in completed public orders to
businesses, Stanishev said. Increasing social benefits for the
poor and families with young children, which will require a
total of 7 million lev, is also part of the plan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  