-- Bullard Says Fed Should Maintain ‘Effective’ QE Program
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2013-05-21T15:57:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/bullard-says-fed-should-maintain-effective-bond-buying-program.html
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis
President  James Bullard  said the central bank should continue
its bond buying because it’s the best available option for
policy makers to boost growth that is slower than expected.  The purchases known as quantitative easing should be
maintained because financial markets indicate that they are
improving financial conditions and can be adjusted based on how
the economy changes, Bullard, who votes on the policy-setting
 Federal Open Market Committee  this year, said today according to
the text of remarks prepared for delivery in  Frankfurt .  “Quantitative easing is closest to standard monetary
policy, involves clear action and has been effective,” Bullard
said. The panel should continue the program while “adjusting
the rate of purchases appropriately in view of incoming data on
both real economic performance and inflation.”  Fed officials are debating how and when to eventually
curtail the purchases that have expanded the central bank’s
balance sheet to a record  $3.35 trillion . The FOMC said May 1 it
will keep buying $85 billion in Treasuries and mortgage bonds
per month to boost employment and spur the economy.  U.S. stocks erased losses after Bullard’s comments. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index added 0.1 percent to 1,668.33 at
11:53 a.m. in New York after declining as much as 0.2 percent.
The yield on the 10-year Treasury note fell to 1.95 percent from
1.97 percent late yesterday.  Target Rate  The FOMC said that it is prepared to accelerate or slow the
monthly purchases of $40 billion a month in mortgage securities
and $45 billion of Treasuries in response to changes in the
labor market and inflation. It also left unchanged its statement
that it plans to hold its target interest  rate  near zero as long
as unemployment remains above 6.5 percent and the outlook for
inflation doesn’t exceed 2.5 percent.  Payrolls expanded by 165,000 workers last month and the
 unemployment rate  fell to a four-year low of  7.5 percent , Labor
Department data show. Revisions added a total of 114,000 jobs to
the employment count in February and March.  Quantitative easing is the best among five policy options
that also include doing nothing, giving guidance about future
actions, charging banks to hold reserves and swapping short-term
debt for long-term bonds, Bullard said at the Institute for
Monetary and Financial Stability.  The world’s largest economy expanded at a 2.5 percent
annualized rate in the first quarter, the Commerce Department
said last month. The gain followed a 0.4 percent fourth-quarter
advance, the slowest since the first quarter of 2011.  Chairman Bernanke  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  tomorrow may provide clues as to
whether he sees the Fed making enough progress toward its goal
of a substantial improvement in the labor market when he
testifies on the economic outlook before the Joint Economic
Committee of Congress. The same day, the Fed is scheduled to
release minutes from the April 30-May 1 FOMC meeting.  Officials last week expressed a range of views on when to
begin winding down their purchases. Philadelphia Fed President
 Charles Plosser  called for shrinking purchases at the Fed’s next
meeting; San Francisco’s  John Williams  favored a reduction
“perhaps as early as this summer,” and Boston’s  Eric Rosengren 
said low inflation and high unemployment suggest there may be a
need for more stimulus, not less.  Bullard, 52, joined the St. Louis Fed’s research department
in 1990 and became president of the regional bank in 2008. His
district includes  Arkansas  and parts of Illinois, Indiana,
Kentucky,  Mississippi ,  Missouri  and Tennessee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  