-- Bundesbank Says German Recovery to Gather Pace in Second Quarter
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2013-05-21T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/bundesbank-says-german-recovery-to-gather-pace-in-second-quarter.html
The  Bundesbank  said  Germany ’s
economic recovery will gather pace in the current quarter after
an exceptionally long winter damped growth at the beginning of
the year.  “Economic activity is expected to improve markedly in the
second quarter of 2013,” the Frankfurt-based central bank said
in its monthly report today. There is likely to be “catch-up
effects in response to the weather-related downturn in
construction activity during last winter,” it said.  The German economy expanded just 0.1 percent in the first
three months of the year, less than the 0.3 percent growth
forecast by economists, as the recession in the euro area
extended to a record sixth quarter. Still, German factory orders
surged for a second month in March and exports rose, adding to
signs that  Europe ’s largest economy is on the mend.  “There is reason to hope that exports and investment in
machinery and equipment, the demand components that can usually
be relied upon most to set the pace for the German economy, will
recover as well,” the Bundesbank said. “However, the poor
economic conditions prevailing in many parts of the euro area
and the current problems associated with the sovereign debt
crisis mean that macroeconomic risks remain high.”  The  European Central Bank  cut its benchmark  interest rate 
to a record low of 0.5 percent this month and President  Mario Draghi  indicated he’ll lower borrowing costs further if the
economic outlook deteriorates. Policy makers are also
investigating ways to boost lending to small companies, which
are suffering from tight credit conditions in many parts of the
17-nation euro region.  In Germany, “debt financing conditions are exceptionally
favorable, and there are no signs that large firms or small and
medium- sized enterprises in Germany are finding it noticeably
more difficult to access credit,” the Bundesbank said.  The Bundesbank also said that recent minimum-wage
agreements in the construction and hairdressing sectors “could
potentially give rise to cost pressure.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  