-- Bunzl Defies Analyst Dislike With Rise to Record: London Mover
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2013-05-21T16:04:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/bunzl-defies-analyst-dislike-with-rise-to-record-london-mover.html
Bunzl Plc (BNZL) , the world’s largest
distributor of disposable tableware and food packaging, advanced
to a record high even as the company remains analysts’ second-least favored stock in the U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index.  The  shares  rose for the ninth trading day in the last 10 to
1,342 pence, an advance of 0.5 percent and extending this year’s
gain to 33 percent.  Bunzl’s advance comes even as nine of 19  analysts  tracked
by Bloomberg advise selling the stock. Six analysts have a hold
recommendation, while four advocate buying. That gives the
company an average rating of 2.42 on a 5-point scale, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Only  William Morrison
Supermarkets Plc (MRW) , the U.K.’s fourth-largest supermarket
operator, has a lower rating among FTSE 100 stocks, at 2.31.  Bunzl traces its roots back to a haberdashery business
founded in 1854 in Bratislava, now the capital of  Slovakia .
Family members moved the business to Vienna and then emigrated
to Britain as  Nazi Germany  annexed  Austria , and started a paper
company. Bunzl, based in the U.K. capital, now distributes
safety, cleaning and health-care products, as well as grocery
and foodservice items, in 27 countries.  “Most people make the mistake of looking at what they
do,”  Mike Murphy , an analyst at Numis Securities Ltd. with an
add rating on the stock, said in a telephone interview. “Their
business model and returns on capital are very consistent.”  ‘Global Champion’  For the past 20 years Bunzl had achieved operating margins
of about 7 percent, with a pretax return on capital of 13
percent to 15 percent, said Murphy, the top-rated analyst for
the stock based on the Bloomberg Absolute Return Ranking. He has
a 12-month price target of 1,505 pence, the highest among 16
analysts tracked by Bloomberg.  No other company in the world has Bunzl’s scope and scale,
Murphy said. “It is one of our global champions.”  Charles Wilson, an analyst at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., cut
Bunzl to sell/neutral from neutral on May 3 in a note titled
“Running Out of Steam.” The stock is fully valued with limited
scope for further upgrades, he said. Bunzl has risen 50 percent
since the start of last year.  The company is capable of boosting earnings and dividends
by more than 9 percent a year until 2020, Murphy said in a note
to clients. Its valuation “remains attractive for this global
consolidator and earnings compounder.”  Acquisition Spending  Bunzl has announced more than three dozen  acquisitions ,
mainly of closely held businesses, in the past five years,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The latest acquisition,
completed May 1, was for three units of Jeminex Ltd., a Sydney-based distributor of industrial supplies. The purchase marked
Bunzl’s entry into the Australian safety market, and the three
businesses are expected to have annual revenue of A$160 million
($157 million) this year, according to the company.  Bunzl spent 272 million pounds last year buying companies
with annual revenue of more than 500 million pounds. It finances
most of its acquisitions from  cash flow .  First-quarter revenue rose 10 percent from a year ago, with
acquisitions supplying most of the increase, Bunzl said April
17. Sales gained about 5 percent in 2012 to 5.36 billion pounds.  Bunzl has advanced in 18 of the past 22 years, rising about
20-fold in that time. The  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  tripled in the period.  The stock is trading 16 percent higher than its 12-month
average price target, Bloomberg data show, suggesting it may
decline over the next year. Only five other companies in the
FTSE 100 Index trade at a proportionately greater level above
their 12-month average price target. The index as a whole may
gain about 2.8 percent in the next 12 months based on the
average price targets of its constituents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Risser at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net ;
Douglas Lytle at   dlytle@bloomberg.net  