-- Burberry Profit Exceeds Expectations as Sales Surge in Asia
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2013-05-21T09:01:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/burberry-profit-exceeds-expectations-as-revenue-surges-in-asia.html
Burberry Group Plc (BRBY) , the U.K.’s
largest luxury-goods maker, reported full-year profit that beat
estimates, boosted by strong demand in China and Hong Kong, and
increased the dividend by more than analysts expected.  Adjusted pretax profit advanced 14 percent to 427.8 million
pounds ($652.9 million) in the year through March, London-based
Burberry said today, compared with the 417.5 million-pound
median of six estimates compiled by Bloomberg News.  Booming demand for luxury goods in China is stoking sales
growth at the maker of $2,795 trenchcoats, which so far has
shrugged aside signs of a slowdown in the industry.  LVMH Moet
Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC)  last month reported the slowest growth
in fashion and leather-goods revenue in more than three years,
while Prada SpA reported figures that disappointed analysts.  Burberry’s “template for international and digital success
has set the standard that other retailers must try to emulate,”
Dan Coen, a director at advisory firm Zolfo Cooper, said by e-mail. “The luxury retailer has succeeded in accessing
international markets by rapidly ramping up its presence in
growth areas such as  China .”  A  dividend  for the year of 29 pence a share represented a
16 percent increase on the previous year and exceeded the 27.8
pence average estimate of 20 analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  Burberry  gained  as much as 2.7 percent to 1,503 pence in
London trading, the highest since May 4. The stock has risen 21
percent this year, valuing the company at 6.6 billion pounds.  Expensive Goods  Burberry is expanding retail operations and increasing
average prices to target the market for the most expensive
goods, which Bain & Co. estimates will grow faster than cheaper
lines. While the high end of the luxury market is booming, so-called aspirational shoppers are growing weary of heavily logoed
products, according to the consultant.  China and Hong Kong both posted double-digit percentage
growth in comparable store sales for the year, compared with a
low single-digit increase in the Americas, Burberry said. Europe
was broadly unchanged after a strong first quarter. Total
revenue advanced 8 percent to 2 billion pounds.  Global luxury sales will rise 4 percent to 5 percent this
year, excluding currency shifts, Bain estimated last week.
Growth will be sustained as booming demand in southeast Asia
offsets a slowdown in China and Europe, Bain said.  Burberry said last month that profit would probably be at
the top end of estimates after same-store sales rose 7 percent
in the second half. Earnings may rise to 450 million pounds to
480 million pounds this year even as the global environment
remains challenging, the company said April 17.  Capital Spending  The luxury-goods maker’s “brand elevation continues,”
Christopher Walker, an analyst at Nomura International Plc.  Capital spending at Burberry will be about 200 million
pounds this year, directed toward 25 new stores and digital
initiatives, Chief Executive Officer Angela Ahrendts said on a
video posted on Youtube. Openings are expected to contribute
low-to-mid single-digit percentage growth to retail revenue in
fiscal 2014, Burberry said.  Revenue will be weighted to the second half as underlying
wholesale revenue decreases about 10 percent in the six months
through September, Burberry said. Clients globally planned more
conservatively for fall and there is a continuing impact from
cutting wholesale accounts and entry price products, it said.  Adjusted profit before tax for the six months through
September is expected to be below last year’s 173 million
pounds, Burberry said. The beauty business, which Burberry has
taken in-house, is expected to be dilutive to first-half
earnings, it said.  The aim this year is to increase “modestly” the operating
margin from last year’s 17.1 percent, Burberry said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Roberts in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  