-- Caisse de Depot Sells Europe Properties Amid ‘Dark Night’
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2013-05-22T14:09:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/caisse-de-depot-to-sell-european-properties-amid-dark-night-.html
Caisse de Depot et Placement du
 Quebec  is selling some of its European property and redeploying
proceeds in assets such as infrastructure while the euro-area
economy shrinks, Chief Executive Officer  Michael Sabia  said.  About 20 percent of the Caisse’s C$18 billion ($17.5
billion) of real estate assets are in Western  Europe , according
to its 2012 annual report.  Canada ’s largest public pension- fund
manager  oversaw net assets of about C$176 billion at the end of
last year, including C$6.31 billion in infrastructure such as
toll roads and a stake in  London ’s  Heathrow Airport .  “We are selling real estate assets in Europe,” Sabia said
in an interview yesterday at the Bloomberg Canada Economic
Summit in Toronto. “Real estate pricing among top quality,
platinum-quality assets -- the pricing is quite good, and we are
trying to benefit from that and in some other asset categories
as well, where selectively asset prices are high.”  The euro-area economy contracted 0.2 percent in the first
three months of 2013, data from the European Union’s statistics
office  showed  last week. That extended the recession in the zone
to a sixth quarter.  While stressing “it’s the right time to be counter-cyclical in Europe,” Sabia said he and his investment team will
approach investing in the region with extreme caution. The
Caisse had 7.2 percent of its total assets in the euro region at
year-end, according to its annual report.  ‘Dark and Foggy’  “There’s a dark night going on in Europe, a dark and foggy
night where bad things come out of trees and bite you,” Sabia
said. “It’s a pretty scary place. In Europe there are
investments to be made, and I think it’s possible to be
successful there but there’s no place in the world, other that
maybe  emerging markets , where the word selectivity is
fundamentally important.”  Sabia didn’t specify which European properties the Caisse
is planning to sell.  On May 7, the Caisse’s Ivanhoe Cambridge real-estate unit
 sold  the Paris building that houses the headquarters of Vivendi
SA to French insurer Assurances du Credit Mutuel. Terms of the
deal weren’t disclosed.  In addition to infrastructure, cash from asset sales may be
reinvested in distressed debt or “situations where a current
shareholder needs to liquidate an asset,” Sabia said. “We are
trying to, in effect, help build our future by trying to benefit
frankly from some of the issues and difficulties that other
institutions in Europe have right now.”  Private Equity  Sabia, 59, said in January that the Caisse plans to add
C$10 billion to C$12 billion in what it calls less-liquid
investments in the next two years. The fund manager seeks to
have about 30 percent of its assets in  private equity , real
estate and infrastructure by the end of 2014, up from 25
percent, the CEO said at the time.  Real estate was one of the best performing asset classes
for the Caisse last year, returning 12.4 percent. The pension
fund manager’s overall return was 9.6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  