-- Canadian Pacific Spills Most Oil in Three Months in Saskatchewan
-- B y   E d w a r d   W e l s c h
-- 2013-05-21T23:36:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/canadian-pacific-spills-most-oil-in-three-months-in-saskatchewan.html
Canadian Pacific Railway Ltd. (CP)  rail
cars spilled 545 barrels of crude oil near Jansen, Saskatchewan,
in the company’s third and largest oil spill in as many months.  Five rail cars derailed and two leaked, with one car
emptying its entire contents, Ralph Bock, manager of hazardous
materials at the province’s  Environment Ministry , said in phone
interview from near the accident site. The company spilled a
combined 757 barrels in March and April in two accidents in
Ontario and Minnesota,  Ed Greenberg , a company spokesman in
 Minneapolis , said in an e-mail.  “CP is building a temporary line around the incident,”
Bock said. “That will allow the traffic to flow and then they
can do their clearing operations at the incident site.”  Oil shipments are becoming a growing source of profits for
Canadian Pacific and other Canadian railroads. Production is
outgrowing pipeline infrastructure in Western Canada, and
companies are increasingly using rail to avoid transportation
bottlenecks.  Canadian Pacific, which operates in six provinces and 13
U.S. states, expects to transport about 70,000 oil carloads this
year, an increase of 31 percent from last year, Greenberg said.
Each rail car holds roughly 540 barrels of oil.  Canadian Pacific ’s average revenue per car gained by 12
percent in the first quarter compared with a year ago, largely
because of the increased oil traffic, Jane O’Hagan, the Calgary-based company’s chief marketing officer, said on its April 24
earnings conference call.  Increased Traffic  “We expect this to continue as crude forms a larger part
of our book, and, of course, a lot of the growth was driven by
crude oil,” O’Hagan said.  Saskatchewan regulators are working with the company to
remove the derailed rail cars from the site and to begin clean-up operations, Bock said. One rail car leaked all its contents,
while a second rail car leaked a “minor” amount from its hatch
before the leak was sealed, he said.  Greenberg said the oil spilled today was produced in
Western Canada and didn’t come from the  oil sands  in  Alberta .
The shipment was headed eastward, Greenberg said, but he
declined to give further details.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Welsch in Calgary at 
 ewelsch1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  