-- Canary Wharf Gets Nod for Eight Buildings Near London Eye
-- B y   P a t r i c k   G o w e r
-- 2013-05-22T16:13:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/canary-wharf-qatar-win-approval-for-london-shell-centre-project.html
Canary Wharf Group Plc and Qatar’s
sovereign-wealth fund won local-government approval to construct
offices and 877 homes in eight buildings at the site of  Royal
Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ’s U.K. headquarters near the London Eye Ferris
wheel on the River Thames.  Qatari Diar Real Estate Investment and the controller of
the Canary Wharf financial district received permission late
yesterday from Lambeth Borough Council for a project that
includes more than 1.2 million square feet (111,000 square
meters) of offices and apartments across eight buildings ranging
from five to 37 stories. The tower occupied by Shell since the
1960s will remain part of the development.  “We’re very excited about the area, it’s almost the best-kept secret,” John Pagano, managing director of Canary Wharf
Group, said in a telephone interview. “It’s going to compete
with the West End fringe.”  About 20 percent of the new homes will be for low-income
residents and the developers will pay as much as 24.5 million
pounds ($37 million) to the borough, according to a filing on
the council’s website. Not all of the affordable homes will be
on the Shell Centre site.  Songbird Estates Plc (SBD) , which owns 69 percent of Canary Wharf
Group, was up 1.3 percent at 141.25 pence at the 4:30 p.m. close
in London. The shares have gained 19 percent this year, raising
Songbird’s market value to 1.05 billion pounds.  ‘Strategic Objectives’  “The development would give rise to not only additional
jobs in the borough, but would also contribute towards strategic
objectives for London in its promotion as a world city,”
council officials said in a document recommending planning
approval.  The development is in London’s Southbank district, where
investors have spent about 500 million pounds on real estate in
the past six months, Investment Property Databank Ltd. and
broker Farebrother said in a May 20 report. Offices in the area
generated returns of 9.6 percent in 2012, the second-highest in
 London , according to the report. The West End was top with
returns of 10.6 percent.  Qatar, the world’s biggest producer of liquefied natural
gas, spent $60 billion a year abroad between 2008 and 2012,
according to International Monetary Fund data. The nation’s
sovereign-wealth fund has, through various units, amassed stakes
in high-profile U.K. real estate during the spree, including the
Shard skyscraper, the Chelsea Barracks luxury-housing
development and Harrods department store.  Shell, Europe’s biggest oil company, is based in The Hague.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Gower in London at 
 pgower@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  