-- Canadian Dollar Falls to 2-Month Low on Bets Fed to Trim Easing
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2013-05-21T21:12:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/canadian-dollar-weakens-amid-speculation-fed-to-reduce-easing.html
Canada ’s dollar fell to a more than
two-month low against its U.S. counterpart amid speculation
growth in the world’s largest economy would spur the  Federal
Reserve  to reduce stimulus, known as quantitative easing.  The currency declined against the majority of its 16 most-traded peers as crude oil, Canada’s biggest export, snapped a
four-day rally. It pared losses versus the greenback after one
Fed regional bank president said the central bank should
continue its bond-buying program while another said he was
undecided on the Fed’s next move. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
will discuss policy in congressional testimony tomorrow before
the central bank releases minutes of its last meeting.  “The market seems to be preparing for some discussion
about the end of QE, which will give the dollar more strength
and should weigh on the Canadian dollar,”  David Watt , chief
economist at the Canadian unit of HSBC Holdings Plc, said by
phone from Toronto. “The Canadian economy is still struggling.
Inflation numbers have suggested that there is no reason for the
 Bank of Canada  to consider hiking rates.”  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is known for the image
of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, fell 0.3 percent to
C$1.0267 per  U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. in Toronto after touching
C$1.0321, weakest since March 7. One loonie buys 97.40 U.S.
cents.  Oil, Stocks  Crude-oil futures fell 0.6 percent to $96.16 a barrel in
 New York . The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of stocks rose 0.2
percent.  Canada’s benchmark 10-year  government bonds  rose, with
yields falling one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to
1.91 percent. The 1.5 percent note maturing in June 2023 added
10 cents to C$96.30.  The loonie trimmed its decline after Fed Bank of St. Louis
President  James Bullard , who votes on the policy-setting  Federal
Open Market Committee  this year, said the panel should continue
the quantitative-easing program while “adjusting the rate of
purchases appropriately in view of incoming data on both real
economic performance and inflation,” according to the text of
remarks prepared for delivery in Frankfurt.  William C. Dudley, the Fed Bank of New York president and
vice chairman of the FOMC, said in prepared remarks for a speech
in New York that “because the outlook is uncertain, I cannot be
sure which way -- up or down -- the next change will be.”  As the Fed debates its next move, the highest inflation-adjusted yields on Canadian government bonds in almost three
months suggest that incoming Bank of Canada Governor Stephen
Poloz has room to reverse  Mark Carney ’s tightening bias and cut
 interest rates .  ‘Hiking Bias’  The difference between the return of the benchmark 10-year
bond and the annual rate of inflation, known as the  real yield ,
widened to 152 basis points on May 17, after  Statistics Canada 
said consumer prices fell to 0.4 percent in April. That’s above
the average of 114 basis points since before the start of the
global financial crisis in 2008.  “After the recent decline in inflation, there are still
question marks on if the central bank can or will maintain its
hiking bias,”  Mark Chandler , head of fixed-income strategy at
 Royal Bank of Canada (RY) ’s RBC Capital Markets unit, said by phone
from Toronto. “Performance from here will be dictated by if the
Canadian economy can hook on to the coattails of the emerging
U.S. economy.”  While its currency appreciates and its central bank
maintains the only bias toward higher rates in the Group of
Seven, Canada’s economy is growing at the slowest rate of
developed nations outside of Europe.  Overvalued Loonie  Doug Porter , chief economist at the Bank of Montreal, said
the Canadian dollar is overvalued by 5 percent to 10 percent
given levels of commodity prices.  Porter, speaking in an interview today at Bloomberg’s
Canada Economic Summit in Toronto, said the Canadian dollar will
continue to be supported by safe-haven flows in the next couple
of years, keeping it trading near parity with the U.S. dollar
before weakening in the “medium-term.”  There is also no urgency for the Bank of Canada to raise
interest rates, Porter said, adding there is a case for the
country’s central bank to drop its tightening bias because the
housing market has cooled.  Steady Rate  The Bank of Canada has held its overnight rate at  1 percent 
since September 2010, where it is forecast to remain through the
rest of the year by 22 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The central bank last month forecast inflation would stay
below its 2 percent target until the second quarter of 2015,
longer than the previous estimate for the third quarter of next
year. At the same time, it cut its growth outlook for this year
to 1.5 percent from 2 percent because of lower business
investment and  government spending .  Canada’s annual inflation rate fell in April to its slowest
in more than three years, taking it below the central bank’s
target band and adding to evidence of growing slack in the
world’s 11th largest economy. The consumer price  index (SPX)  rose 0.4
percent in April from a year ago compared with a 1 percent
annual gain the prior month, Statistics Canada said May 17.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  