-- Carbon Surplus-Fix Struggle Shows EU Policy Unease, Russia Says
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2013-05-21T14:26:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/carbon-surplus-fix-struggle-shows-eu-policy-unease-russia-says.html
The European Union’s struggle to cut
a surplus of permits in its carbon market, the world’s largest,
shows the bloc’s unease with a policy it wants other nations to
adopt, according to  Russia ’s climate envoy.  The European Parliament’s rejection last month of a measure
to allow delaying the sale of some EU allowances goes against
the bloc’s efforts to limit the use of excess United Nations
emissions permits known as Assigned Amount Units, Moscow-based
Oleg Shamanov said by e-mail. Some EU lawmakers argued the
bloc’s proposal amounted to market intervention.  The EU is “uncomfortable internally with measures that it
was promoting internationally,” Shamanov, who negotiates UN
climate-protection agreements for Russia, said yesterday. “The
vote against looks somehow inconsistent with the EU’s stance
against using spare AAUs within the Kyoto system.”  The 1997  Kyoto Protocol , which assigns emission rights to
participating nations, will have a surplus of about 14.7 billion
metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent in the five years
through 2012, according to a Bloomberg New Energy Finance
forecast. Envoys are still to finalize a strategy on dealing
with the excess AAUs, of which Russia holds about 60 percent.  Russia opted out of the Kyoto agreement starting this year.
The extended protocol would cancel any surplus sovereign
greenhouse-gas permits for the eight years through 2020 above
the average annual emissions of the country in the three years
through 2010, according to text from December talks in Doha.  Restricted Access  The EU wasn’t seeking to eliminate the surplus AAUs in
Doha, said Artur Runge-Metzger, the EU’s lead climate
negotiator.  “We didn’t get rid of the surplus,” he said in a May 2
interview at climate talks in Bonn, after Shamanov first
criticized the EU’s stance. “We said we need to manage the
surplus under Kyoto and I think we did that quite successfully
with the Doha decisions.”  Under those decisions, nations with surpluses may have
restrictions on how they can use them, he said.  The European Parliament will hold a second vote in July on
its stop-gap plan to bolster prices in its market. The EU carbon
permit surplus in 2012 reached about 2 billion tons, or about a
year of emissions,  the bloc said  May 16.  Shamanov compared the EU’s attitude on AAUs to March’s
bailout of Cyprus, in which the island nation bowed to demands
from creditors to shrink its banking system and force losses on
depositors.  “It’s like saying ‘Sir, you don’t have your money,’” he
said. “It was earned lawfully. It’s extremely painful” to have
assets taken away, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  