-- Cardenas Sees No Reason to Change Colombia’s Monetary Stance
-- B y   O s c a r   M e d i n a
-- 2013-05-21T16:40:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/cardenas-sees-no-reason-to-change-colombia-s-monetary-stance.html
Colombian Finance Minister Mauricio Cardenas said there’s no need to change the country’s monetary
stance, as  consumer confidence  rebounds and growth picks up.  “The unanimous vision of the policy committee at its last
meeting was to hold  interest rates  unchanged,” Cardenas told
reporters in Bogota today. “Let’s say that at the moment I
don’t see reasons for a change.”  The central bank held its policy rate at 3.25 percent at
its April meeting, after cutting it 2 percentage points over the
last year. Economists forecast that Colombia will hold the rate
unchanged until the end of the 2013, according to the most
recent central bank survey of analysts.  The economy expanded about 3 percent in the first quarter
from a year earlier, down from  3.1 percent   growth in the fourth
quarter of 2012, Cardenas said. The Finance Ministry now sees
growth picking up again, boosted by government measures to
bolster the housing sector and a “surprisingly positive”
rebound in  consumer confidence , Cardenas said.  Consumer confidence jumped the most in nearly two years in
April, according to a report published by Fedesarrollo, a
Bogota-based think tank. Cardenas reiterated the Finance
Ministry’s forecast that the economy will grow 4.8 percent this
year.  The central bank’s policy committee, which Cardenas chairs,
will hold its next meeting May 31. Cardenas said he will
recommend that the central bank buys $750 million per month from
June until the end of the year. The bank’s current dollar
purchase program, of at least $30 million per day, expires at
the end of this month.  The yield on Colombia’s government peso bonds maturing in
2024 rose 1 basis point to 5.03 percent at 11:30 a.m. in Bogota.
The peso weakened 0.2 percent to 1846.98 per U.S. dollar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oscar Medina in Bogota at 
 omedinacruz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Bristow at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net  