-- Carney Says He’ll Manage BOE With His Colleages, Not Solo
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n   a n d   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 2013-05-21T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/carney-says-europe-could-benefit-from-canada-economic-policies.html
Future  Bank of England  Governor  Mark Carney  said while his Canadian experience may offer lessons to
other countries, he will seek help from his colleagues and not
try to run the London-based central bank as a one-man show.  Carney declined to comment on what stimulus policies he
would seek at the Bank of England, speaking to reporters in
Montreal yesterday. He said he agreed with current Governor
Mervyn King’s comment in a Sky News  interview  last weekend that
the institution isn’t a “one-man show.”  “That is one of the strengths of the institutional
setup,” Carney said. The Bank of England “has tremendous
responsibilities, but each of those responsibilities are
discharged by committees, of which the Governor of the Bank of
England is only one member,” he said, adding that King’s
comments were “absolutely right.”  Most of Carney’s final speech as Bank of  Canada  Governor,
ahead of his June 1 departure, focused on how  Europe  could look
to Canada as a model as the continent’s economy struggles to
grow. Canada emerged faster than other developed countries from
the 2008 global financial turmoil, aided by Carney’s monetary
stimulus, domestic banks that kept lending and record public
works spending by the federal government.  “Relative to our peers, Canada is working,” Carney, 48,
said during the speech. “Canada could adjust quickly to the
shock of the global financial crisis,” Carney said, adding that
today the country needs to “build” rather than “repair” its
economy.  ‘Critical Anchor’  The nation’s inflation-targeting regime was a “critical
anchor” during the crisis, with the bank’s conditional
commitment to keep  interest rates  unchanged maximizing the
effect of the policy rate, Carney said.  Europe’s economy remains hobbled by spending restraint, low
confidence and tight credit conditions, Carney said. “Without
sustained and significant reforms, a decade of stagnation
threatens,” he said. Europe could also take lessons from  Japan 
about the need to take bold measures, he said.  Carney helped ease the global slump’s impact on Canada
after his term began on Feb. 1, 2008, cutting the bank’s
 benchmark rate  from 4 percent to 0.25 percent in April 2009, the
lowest since it was founded in 1934. He also made a
“conditional commitment” to keep rates low for a fixed period,
while avoiding the purchase of bonds to stimulate the economy,
an approach known as “quantitative easing.”  Carney said in response to a question about future Bank of
England policies that “it would be totally inappropriate for me
to make any judgment on what those decisions could be.”  Final Forecasts  Governor King on May 15 declared a U.K. recovery is now
“in sight” as he presented his final forecasts with an
improved economic outlook.  Bank of Canada policy makers said in their last rate
decision April 17 that the economy wouldn’t reach full capacity
until mid-2015. Growth in the world’s 11th-largest economy
probably picked up to a 2 percent annualized first quarter pace
after slumping to 0.6 percent at the end of last year, according
to a Bloomberg economist survey.  The annual  inflation  rate slowed to 0.4 percent in April,
the lowest in more than three years and outside the central
bank’s 1 percent to 3 percent target band,  Statistics Canada 
reported last week.  Carney’s comments avoided a detailed outlook for the
Canadian economy. In his speech, he reiterated that Canada’s
challenge will be to “rotate sources of growth toward net
exports and business investment.” At the press conference,
Carney restated his view that the risks from a housing and
consumer-debt boom are moderating.  “We cannot grow indefinitely by relying on Canadian
households increasing their borrowing relative to income,” he
said.  Tightening Bias  Carney also said the central bank has maintained its
tightening bias on interest rates -- the only central bank in
the Group of Seven to say its next move may be to raise rates --
partly to complement efforts by other policy makers to curb
 household debt .  He said the stimulus of low interest rates will be
“withdrawn appropriately as threats diminish.”  While rising commodity prices tend to benefit resource-rich
provinces such as  Alberta , other provinces still benefit from a
stronger currency because of a decline in the cost of inputs
that improve competitiveness and a surge in trade within the
country, Carney said.  Canada’s system of transfers to poor provinces, its
employment-insurance system and labor-market flexibility also
offset shocks, he said. “One of the building blocks of European
fiscal federalism could be a pan-European employment insurance
scheme built on a common European labor market,” Carney said.  Banking System  He also highlighted the differences between Canada’s and
Europe’s banking systems, saying the euro region will remain
weakened without “major reforms to create a banking union.”  Carney’s last official Canadian business is a May 29
decision where economists  forecast  he will keep the policy
interest rate at 1 percent, where it’s been since September 2010
in the longest pause since the 1950s. He isn’t expected to make
a public statement that day and leaves June 1 to take over the
Bank of England a month later. His replacement is Stephen Poloz,
head of the country’s export-finance agency.  Today Carney said he hasn’t had much time to think about
his legacy and he declined to lay out advice for Poloz, saying
he is a “capable” leader.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa  at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Quinn in  Montreal  at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  