-- CEO Confidence Boosts Executive Recruiting: EcoPulse
-- B y   A n n a - L o u i s e   J a c k s o n   a n d   A n t h o n y   F e l d
-- 2013-05-21T04:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/ceo-confidence-boosts-executive-recruiting-ecopulse.html
Business at executive-recruitment
companies is improving, buoyed by increasing confidence among
corporate leaders and a stabilization in hiring for senior
positions in the financial-services industry.  Heidrick & Struggles International Inc. (HSII)  and Russell
Reynolds Associates say they see some increase in demand, a
trend that was echoed in a recent survey of consultants by
William Blair & Co., an independent investment firm. Meanwhile,
sentiment among chief executive officers  strengthened  in April
to the highest level in almost two years, as the Chief Executive
magazine confidence index rose to 6.07 from 5.55 the prior
month, based on an e-mail survey conducted by the magazine.  Rising CEO confidence is a “key indicator” that’s helping
to boost demand in the executive-recruitment industry, said
 Timothy Ghriskey , chief investment officer at Solaris Asset
Management in  New York , which manages more than $1.5 billion.
“In the mid-to-later stages of an economic expansion,
competition for business leadership intensifies, prompting more
companies to employ search firms to attract talent.”  Gross domestic product expanded at a 2.5 percent annualized
rate in the three months ended March 31, following a 0.4 percent
gain in the fourth quarter, according to the Commerce
Department. Growth was slower than the 3 percent median estimate
of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Revenue Growth  The first quarter brought “signs of improvement” for
Heidrick & Struggles, a Chicago-based executive-search company.
This included 25 percent year-over-year revenue growth at its
New York office, which is “a good indication that the
financial-services sector may be stabilizing,” Chief Executive
Officer  Kevin Kelly  said on a May 9 conference call.  Financial services is still a “substantial end-market”
for the two largest publicly traded recruiters -- Heidrick &
Struggles and  Korn/Ferry International (KFY) , said  Tobey Sommer , an
analyst in Atlanta at SunTrust Robinson Humphrey. Its share of
each companies’ revenue has fallen in the past three years to
about 22 percent for Heidrick & Struggles and 16 percent for Los
Angeles-based Korn/Ferry, down from 32 percent and 19 percent in
early 2010, he said.  While banks have been cutting staff, they’re also pursuing
new areas of business and hiring senior-level executives to lead
these divisions, Ghriskey said. The six largest U.S. banks
announced plans in the first quarter to eliminate about 21,000
jobs, with the most vulnerable positions in units such as
mortgage foreclosures, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Noticeably Stalled’  The 2012 presidential election and this year’s budget
debates made many corporate boards hesitant to change senior
management, Sommer said. While recruitment “noticeably
stalled” for more than a year, it now is rebounding as some of
the uncertainty has dissipated.  Another “meaningful signpost” for the industry is
turnover among CEOs, which rose 20 percent in April from a year
earlier, Sommer said, citing data from  Liberum Research  in New
York. Last month’s increase was the first positive change since
December, according to Liberum.  Fifty-six percent of executive-search consultants in an
April survey by William Blair described “a sequential
improvement in demand” during the previous three months, with
consultants specializing in financial services reporting a slow
recovery, according to Timothy McHugh, an analyst in  Chicago  at
the company.  ‘Big Increase’  Russell Reynolds Associates, a closely held global
executive search and assessment company based in New York, is
seeing “a big increase” in its work-in-progress pipeline,
according to Symon Elliott, who leads the company’s U.S.
operations in New York. That has translated into “fairly
significant” growth in the number of client inquiries and new
searches after these were “bumping along a bottom.”  “The U.S. environment’s not rosy by any means, but it’s
getting better,” Elliott said.  For investors with a sanguine outlook for the  U.S. economy ,
now may be a good time to invest in recruitment companies,
because their stocks tend “to do well in the mid-to-later
stages of an economic expansion,” Ghriskey said.  Their shares are starting to stabilize as a sell-off during
the past two years appears to have stopped, said Jim Stellakis,
founder and director of research at Greenwich, Connecticut-based
research company Technical Alpha Inc. and also a chartered
market technician.  Missed Estimates  Heidrick & Struggles stock has outpaced the Russell 2000
Index by almost 18 percentage points since May 2, though it has
lagged behind by 19 percentage points since Feb. 25, the day
before the company reported fourth-quarter earnings and sales
that missed consensus analyst estimates.  “Investors haven’t forgiven the company for its earnings
miss in February,” though investment flows are taking “a step
in the right direction” more recently, Stellakis said.  Recruiters have changed during the past five years to be
less reliant on “big-ticket” executive placement by moving
into nonsearch businesses, including training and career-development services, according to Matthew Beesley, head of
equities at  Henderson Global Investors  in  London , which oversees
about $100 billion.  While this helped the companies weather the 18-month
recession, their earnings growth could be more muted now than in
the past because their diversification provides “less earnings
oomph,” he said.  Foreign Revenue  In addition, revenue from outside the U.S. now accounts for
more than 20 percent of total sales, while financial services
makes up less than before, so “investors could find that these
stocks don’t behave the way they think they should during this
economic cycle,” Beesley said.  Still, shares of these companies have “significantly
underperformed” the Russell index during the past two years, so
it won’t take much growth in the operating environment to
attract investment, Sommer said. As a result, they could rally a
lot “since they’re very under-owned,” Ghriskey said.  Another encouraging sign for these stocks comes from the
relative performance of the financial-services index. The
 Financial Select Sector SPDR Fund (XLF)  has led the  SPDR Standard &
Poor’s 500 Exchange-Traded Fund (SPY)  by 9.4 percentage points since
Nov. 30, reflecting more optimism among investors about the
banking industry that’s starting to accrue to executive-search
companies, Ghriskey said.  Pent-Up Demand  Along with their increased confidence, clients of Russell
Reynolds Associates are unleashing some “pent-up demand from
the last three to five years,” Elliott said. There’s strength
in its financial-services division from asset-management firms
seeking to hire senior managers, while business in global
banking also is starting to pick up, he said.  The negative sentiment that’s dragged down the industry
appears to be “bottoming out,” even though analysts including
McHugh aren’t “expecting a V-shaped bounce back” in the near-term, he said. McHugh maintains “market perform”
recommendations on  CTPartners Executive Search Inc. (CTP)  and Heidrick
& Struggles and is “outperform” on Korn/Ferry.  For investors seeking positive sequential change, executive
recruitment could be an interesting option, Ghriskey said.
“This industry is starting to show some signs of a favorable
risk-reward trade right now.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna-Louise Jackson in New York at 
 ajackson36@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Feld in New York at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Feld at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net  