-- Chesapeake Seeks Anadarko-Style Discipline With Lawler Choice
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 2013-05-21T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/chesapeake-seeks-anadarko-style-discipline-with-lawler-choice.html
Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  is hiring an
 Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  engineer who oversaw oil projects
around the world to slash costs and transform a corporate
culture forged by Chesapeake’s wildcatting co-founder.  Former Anadarko Senior Vice President Robert “Doug”
Lawler will join Chesapeake on June 17 to fill the chief
executive officer role held by Aubrey McClendon for almost a
quarter century until he stepped down April 1. Lawler’s tasks
include finding buyers for as much as $7 billion in oil and
natural gas fields, and reducing a debt load larger than  Exxon
Mobil Corp. (XOM) ’s, a company 29 times Chesapeake’s market value.  Lawler’s experience in planning, negotiating and organizing
the development of far-flung discoveries from the Indian Ocean
to the Rocky Mountains indicates he has the skills to lead
Chesapeake through its transition from prospector to energy
producer, said Michael Kelly, an analyst at Global Hunter
Securities LLC in Houston.  Ten months ago, Lawler, 46, was elevated to Anadarko’s top
management team and given responsibility for all of the
company’s international and deep-water operations. His tenure in
that job included oversight of $268 billion in gas discoveries
off  Africa ’s east coast.  “He’s still young and still hungry, and it’s telling that
he’s had so much success and risen so quickly through the ranks
of a highly-regarded company,” Mark Hanson, an analyst at
Morningstar Inc., said in an interview. “Best of all, he’s not
a landman, so they’re not going to be going out buying up more
acreage” for exploration.  CEO Search  Lawler, a Colorado School of Mines-trained petroleum
engineer, also will serve as a director on Chesapeake’s board,
the Oklahoma City-based company said in a statement yesterday.
The appointment was the culmination of a 3 ½-month CEO search
after a falling out between directors and McClendon over what he
described as “philosophical differences.”  Chesapeake lost one-fourth of its market value last year as
a glut of North American gas collapsed prices and dried up the
company’s main source of cash to fund drilling and debt
payments. McClendon was replaced as chairman in June at the
behest of activist shareholders such as  Carl Icahn  amid an
investor revolt over weak financial performance and the CEO’s
use of personal stakes in company-owned wells to obtain more
than $800 million in private loans.  Chesapeake’s reserves declined by 16 percent at the end of
2012 to the equivalent of 2.6 billion barrels of oil, the
biggest annual decline in nine years, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. During the first three months of this year, net
debt expanded by 11 percent to $13.5 billion, Chesapeake said in
a U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission filing from May 10.
Exxon had $7.2 billion in net debt at the end of the first
quarter. For  Chevron Corp. (CVX) , Exxon’s largest domestic rival, cash
and other collateral exceeded debt by $3.5 billion.  Mozambique LNG  Lawler played key roles in navigating the financial,
political and technical challenges inherent in Anadarko’s
ongoing liquefied natural gas project in  Mozambique , Hanson
said. The company plans to install refrigeration units and
export terminals along the coast of the East African nation that
will harvest offshore discoveries that may hold as much as 65
trillion cubic feet of gas. At current U.S. prices, that
resource would be worth $268 billion.  “He’s familiar with complexity, which ought to serve him
well at Chesapeake,” Hanson said.  Shale Drilling  Chesapeake, which outspent cash flow in 20 of the past 22
years, also is in need of Anadarko-style financial restraint,
said James Sullivan, an analyst at Alembic Global Advisors in
New York. The company lost $769 million in 2012, or the
equivalent of $2 million a day, for the largest annual loss
since 2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The fact that they want to replicate the Anadarko model
in terms of capital discipline is only positive for
Chesapeake,” Sullivan said in a telephone interview.  Prior to last year’s promotion, Lawler’s responsibilities
also included managing Anadarko’s operations in U.S. shale
formations such as the Marcellus in  Pennsylvania  and the Eagle
Ford in  Texas , where Chesapeake is the biggest and second-biggest owner of drilling rights, respectively, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg Industries.  “Chesapeake needs a guy that has strong operational
experience, a technical guy for the phase they are in now,”
Kelly said. “He’s got to cut costs and gain efficiencies, and
doing that requires someone who’s done it at a world-class
company.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Carroll in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  