-- China Solar Stocks, Hareon Rally on U.S. Talks: Shanghai Mover
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2013-05-21T02:50:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/china-solar-stocks-hareon-rally-on-u-s-talks-shanghai-mover.html
Hareon Solar Technology Co. (600401)  led a
rally for Chinese solar companies on speculation the U.S. and
 China  are seeking to resolve a dispute over trade in solar-energy equipment that could lead to soaring tariffs.  Hareon, a Chinese solar module maker based in eastern
Jiangsu province, jumped by the 10 percent daily limit to 8.02
 yuan  at 9:45 a.m. local time, adding to a 39 percent rally this
year. Shanghai Chaori Solar Energy Science & Technology Co.
advanced 3.1 percent to 3.61 yuan. Zhejiang Sunflower Light
Energy Science & Technology Co. increased 3 percent to 9.68
yuan. The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  retreated 0.2 percent.  The Obama administration is engaged in talks with China and
the European Union, according to people familiar with the
discussions. The preliminary negotiations focus on setting a
quota on Chinese exports and a minimum price for solar-energy
equipment, in exchange for suspending U.S. duties on the goods,
according to two people familiar with the U.S. position who
asked not to be identified to discuss private discussions.  “If trade talks are successful, it would give Chinese
solar companies a chance for a breather,” Xifeng Pan, an
analyst at Northeast Securities Co., said in a phone interview
in  Shanghai . “It will be bad if both U.S. and  Europe  impose
regulations on Chinese companies. If there’s an agreement, at
least the impact is reduced and not so abrupt.”  The U.S. began a probe against Chinese manufacturers in
2011 and the EU in September 2012 after falling solar equipment
prices led to the collapse of companies including Fremont,
California-based Solyndra LLC. The EU plans to levy tariffs of
as much as 67.9 percent on solar panels from China, with the
measures to be announced by June 6, a commerce official from the
bloc, who asked not to be identified, said this month. China
responded by starting probes against the U.S. in July last year
and the EU in November to determine if producers of polysilicon
from those regions were dumping the material.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  