-- China Development Bank Calls Meeting as Bundled SME Bond Sours
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-05-21T09:36:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/china-development-bank-calls-meeting-as-bundled-sme-bond-sours.html
China Development Bank  Corp. will
call a meeting of investors in a bundled bond that the bank
underwrote to arrange for payment of interest and principal
after one of the borrowers became insolvent.  Harbin Huijiabei Foods Co. was one of four companies that
issued the 170 million-yuan ($27.7 million) three-year bond in
2010, the bank said in a  statement  today on the website of the
National Association of Financial Market Institutional
Investors. The maker of baby formula has stopped operations, its
owner can’t be contacted and it’s no longer able to repay
principal or interest, according to the statement.  China  introduced bundled bonds in 2009 to help smaller
companies raise funds by combining the debt of several
enterprises into one security.  The Shenzhen Small & Medium
Enterprises Credit Financing Guarantee Group Co. , the guarantor
of the bundled bond, will make payments if Huijiabei can’t,
according to the statement.  The investor meeting, scheduled for May 24 in the city of
Harbin, comes as slowing economic growth spurs concerns that
more companies may be unable to repay borrowing. Bad loans at
Chinese banks increased for a sixth straight quarter in the
first three months of this year, when  economic growth  slowed to
7.7 percent from 7.9 percent in the fourth quarter of last year.  Huijiabei was also unable to make repayments due at the end
of last year, which were instead made by the guarantor,
according to China Development Bank’s statement.  The bank will ask for approval at the meeting to seek early
repayment of the 12 million  yuan  share of the bundled bond that
Huijiabei owes. If the company is unable to make that early
repayment, the guarantor will need to pay, according to the
statement.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Aipeng Soo in Beijing at 
 asoo4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  