-- CIBC Targets Central Canada to Expand Private-Wealth
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-05-21T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/cibc-targets-central-canada-to-expand-private-wealth-business.html
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce ,
the country’s fifth-biggest bank, plans to expand its private-wealth business, focusing on Central  Canada  and the Atlantic
provinces.  “We see a lot more wealth now in Central Canada --Manitoba
and Saskatchewan -- so we feel we need to have a presence
there,” Gary Whitfield, head of private-wealth management in
Canada, said in an interview. “You’ve seen growth of the
economy in Saskatchewan, so that’s a place for us to look.”  Canadian Imperial seeks to add offices and advisers that
offer services to wealthy clients and build on its takeover of
MFS McLean Budden’s private-wealth business from  Sun Life
Financial Inc. (SLF)  in September. The business is part of the  wealth-management  unit of the Toronto-based bank. Whitfield said growth
will come from both internal expansion and acquisitions.  CIBC opened a private-wealth office in the Toronto suburb
of Vaughan, Ontario, in April, the third such branch to open
near Canada’s most-populous city in the past two years. The firm
also added offices in Victoria, British Columbia, and Winnipeg,
Manitoba, in that period, bringing the total to 15 across the
country.  “The one missing piece of our platform is Atlantic
Canada,” Whitfield said. “We used to have more in there but
after 2008 we really put it on hold, and now we need to
reestablish our presence.”  Grow ‘Quickly’  Canadian Imperial sees opportunities to expand as the
number of wealthy Canadians increases and an aging, affluent
population seeks higher yield on investments, Whitfield said.
About 60 percent of investment assets in Canada are held by
high-net-worth individuals, Whitfield said, which he defined as
those with C$1 million ($973,425) to invest or an annual income
of C$250,000 or more.  CIBC also has expanded in the U.S. Last month, the lender
agreed to buy Atlantic Trust Private Wealth Management from
 Invesco Ltd. (IVZ)  for $210 million.  The bank has a medium-term goal of having wealth management
represent 15 percent of  earnings , up from about 10 percent last
year. Whitfield said he sees private wealth as a key
contributor.  “We can grow this business quickly, which means that we
should, hopefully over time, become and increasingly important
part of wealth management,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  