-- CIMB Net Jumps 37% to Record, Boosted by Insurance Stake Sale
-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 2013-05-21T12:03:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/cimb-net-jumps-37-to-record-boosted-by-insurance-stake-sale.html
CIMB (CIMB)  Group Holdings Bhd.,  Malaysia ’s
second-largest bank by assets, reported a 37 percent jump in
first-quarter profit that was boosted by the sale of its stake
in an insurance joint venture.  Net income  surged to a record 1.39 billion ringgit ($460
million), or 18.65 sen per share, in the three months ended
March 31 from 1.01 billion ringgit, or 13.6 sen per share, a
year earlier, according to a stock exchange filing in  Kuala
Lumpur  today.  CIMB announced in January it will sell most of its stake in
Malaysian insurer CIMB-Aviva, a venture with London-based Aviva
Plc, to Sun Life Financial Inc. and Khazanah Nasional Bhd. It
booked one-time gains of 515.1 million ringgit for the quarter,
according to today’s filing. Earnings would have grown 4.2
percent if exceptional items were excluded,  Nazir Razak , the
bank’s chief executive officer, said in a separate statement.  “We had a decent start to the year with steady growth
across most business segments,” Nazir said. “We also took this
opportunity to take some restructuring charges that will bring
about longer term cost benefits.”  Shares of Kuala Lumpur-based CIMB have surged 12 percent
since Prime Minister Najib Razak, older brother of Nazir, was
returned to power in a tightly-fought election on May 5. It’s
outperformed a 5.5 percent jump in the  benchmark  FTSE Bursa
Malaysia KLCI Index over the same period. CIMB rose 0.8 percent
to close at 8.50 ringgit in Kuala Lumpur today, ahead of
earnings.  Advisory Fees  Net interest income, or revenue from borrowers after
deducting interest paid to depositors, rose 9.1 percent to 1.9
billion ringgit in the period. Allowances for impairment losses
on loans and financing shrank 44 percent to 80.7 million ringgit,
the company said.  Net non-interest income, including deal advisory fees,
climbed 1.2 percent to 1.16 billion ringgit in the first quarter,
CIMB said. Credit demand was supported by infrastructure
projects and domestic spending as  Southeast Asia ’s third-largest
 economy  grew 4.1 percent last quarter.  CIMB agreed last year to buy a 60 percent stake in the
 Philippines ’ Bank of Commerce to expand its Southeast Asia
footprint. Nazir told reporters last week that it was proceeding
with discussions even after seller San Miguel Corp. signaled the
deal may be scrapped.  Issues will be resolved in about a week, San Miguel
President Ramon Ang told reporters today, adding that the brewer
was willing to keep the bank if talks falter. “Many” other
groups are interested, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chong Pooi Koon in Kuala Lumpur at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji in  Hong Kong  at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  