-- Citigroup Sees ‘Death Bells’ for Commodities Supercycle in 2013
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 2013-05-21T17:25:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/citigroup-sees-death-bells-for-commodities-supercycle-in-2013.html
The commodities supercycle is
probably ending this year as  China ’s economic growth slows and
the nation focuses less on infrastructure and urbanization,
Citigroup Inc. said.  This year will probably signal “death bells” for the
supercycle, or a longer-than-average period of rising prices,
Citigroup said in a report dated yesterday, reiterating similar
calls made last month and in 2011. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI
gauge of 24  raw materials  is down 2.1 percent this year, after
an almost fourfold advance since the end of 2001.  The rally in the past decade spurred new mines, wells and
crop acreage. Economic growth in China, the biggest user of
everything from copper to cotton to coal, slowed to 7.4 percent
in the third quarter, from as much as 12 percent in 2010.
Expansion will increase to 8.05 percent in the three months
through September and remain at 8 percent until mid-2014,
according to economist estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Change is “ushering in a new decade of opportunities based
on how individual commodities will perform against one another
and against broader market indicators such as equities or
currencies,” Citibank said in the report. “The downward shift
in China’s economic growth rate combined with the decline in the
commodity intensity of growth have a permanent and profound
impact on global markets.”  The drop in the S&P’s gauge of commodities this year
compares with a 12 percent increase in the MSCI All-Country
World Index of equities, which advanced to the highest since
June 2008 as U.S. stocks reached a record. A Bank of America
Corp. index shows Treasuries lost 0.4 percent this year.  Commodity Prices  Natural gas and cotton are the best performers in the S&P
index this year, with gold and silver, which both entered a  bear
market  in April, dropping the most. Commodities are down about
29 percent since July 2008, when the worst recession since World
War II curbed demand. While China’s growth accelerated in 2009
through the start of 2010, it’s since slowed.  “China has reached a new phase, less focused on
infrastructure and urbanization, both of which are highly
commodity intensive,” Citigroup said. “Lower single-digit
economic growth shifting to a greater emphasis on consumption
rather than investment hits industrial metals, bulk commodities
and to a lesser degree energy demand.”  Hedge funds  held a net-long position, or bet on higher
prices, of 588,482 contracts across 18 raw materials in the week
to May 14, U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission data show.
That’s about 33 percent below the five-year average.  Raw materials  have been in a supercycle since 2001 and the
average length of each phase since the late 1700s has been
almost 21 years, Chris Watling, chief executive officer of
London-based Longview Economics Ltd., said in October at a
conference in  London .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  