-- Clegg Sees No Early End to U.K. Coalition With Cameron
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-05-21T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/clegg-sees-no-early-end-to-u-k-coalition-with-cameron.html
U.K. Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg, the Liberal Democrat leader, sought to shore up his Tory
coalition partner, David Cameron, saying their government would
continue until the last possible moment in 2015.  Under electoral law passed in 2011, voters will go to the
polls on  May 7, 2015 . Today’s speech is partly in response to a
report in  the Times  newspaper on May 17 that Tories have begun
to plan for the early break-up of the coalition amid concerns
Clegg will be unable to keep his party in government for the
full term. The  Mail on Sunday  had a similar report May 19.  “To those voices who say that it will be in either, or
both, parties’ interests to prematurely pull the plug: I
couldn’t disagree more,” Clegg will say in a speech in London
today, according to extracts released by his office. “In 2010
the British people dealt us this hand. And they will not forgive
either party if we call time ahead of the election that has been
legislated for in 2015 -- destabilizing the nation in the vague
hope of short-term political gain.”  Cameron has had to rely on the opposition Labour Party
twice in a week to outvote rebel Tories who disagree with his
policies on the European Union and same-sex marriages.  A Liberal Democrat aide, speaking on usual condition of
anonymity, said Clegg’s speech is designed to be helpful after
the Tory turmoil. The Liberal Democrat leadership is confident
Cameron can ride out his current difficulties, he said.  Under new rules, Parliament will be dissolved on March 30,
2015, allowing for an election campaign of 25 working days.  “I know some commentators think it would be clever to duck
out six months early,” Clegg will say. “But that doesn’t make
any sense either. The idea that the Liberal Democrats could
suddenly win back those people who have never liked us going
into government with the Conservatives is nonsense -- as if we
could pull the wool over people’s eyes, using an early exit to
somehow erase the previous 4 1/2 years.”  Clegg will say today he plans to focus on the economy amid
voters’ concerns about the cost of living and will attack Labour
for its “unfunded spending promises.”  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in  London  at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  