-- Congo Central Bank Governor Seen Extending Bank Services
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 2013-05-21T06:47:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/congo-central-bank-governor-seen-extending-bank-services-1-.html
Deogratias Mutombo Mwana Nyembo, who
became  Democratic Republic  of Congo’s central bank governor last
week, may boost efforts to extend financial services to more of
the country’s 70 million people, an industry group said.  The 48-year-old, who has worked as an economist at the bank
for more than two decades, most recently serving as director of
banking and markets, took over from Jean-Claude Masangu, who
held the position since 1997.  “We hope he will maintain and pursue reforms implemented
by his predecessor by cleaning up the financial system and by
refining, expanding and modernizing the banking sector,” Michel Losembe, president of the Congolese Banking Association, said
yesterday by phone from Kinshasa, the capital.  Congo’s banking industry is flourishing following the end
in 2003 of nearly a decade of war and after Masangu implemented
measures including lowering interest rates and innovations such
as mobile-phone banking, Losembe said.  Citigroup Inc. (C) , First
Bank of Nigeria Plc,  South Africa ’s  Standard Bank Group Ltd. (SBK)  and
Ecobank Transnational Inc., based in Lome, Togo, are among 18
lenders with a presence in the country, he said.  The proportion of Congolese using the banking system almost
tripled to 5.7 percent of the population last year, compared
with 2 percent in 2011.  Congo, the world’s eighth-largest copper producer, ranks
 last  along with Niger on this year’s United Nations Human
Development Index, which measures indicators including levels of
poverty, education and health care.  Newcomers Arriving  The banking industry “is not big in absolute terms, but
the growth is five times GDP growth, which is why it’s
attractive to newcomers,” Losembe said. Congolese banking
assets grew 30 percent to $3.6 billion last year, while  bank
deposits  jumped 33 percent to $2.6 billion, according to the
central bank.  Business for commercial banks also improved after the
government began transferring the salaries of civil servants
through them, replacing cash payments, in major cities over the
past 18 months, Losembe said. The Congolese units of  Vodacom
Group Ltd. (VOD) ,  Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI)  and Millicom International
Cellular SA’s Tigo run mobile-banking services, Losembe said.  Mutombo takes over as Congo tries to settle a dispute with
the  International Monetary Fund  and begin a new lending program.
The Washington-based lender canceled its $523 million loan
agreement in November after Congo failed to meet its demand to
publish the details of a 2011 copper mining deal.  Rates Falling  The central bank is responsible for setting the benchmark
 interest rate , which dropped to 3 percent in February from 70
percent at the start of 2010, and selling government debt. It
holds weekly auctions of seven-day Treasury bills and
infrequently issues 28-day notes.  Annual inflation in Congo at the end of 2012 was 5.7
percent and is expected to accelerate to 8 percent this year,
according to the International Monetary Fund.  The foreign-currency reserves of the Central African
nation’s central bank stood at $1.7 billion by the end of March,
covering about 2.3 months of imports, from $50 million in 2008.
Gross domestic product rose 7.2 percent last year as investment
in the  mining industry  expanded and sales of copper, cobalt and
gold rose. Growth may surpass 8 percent in 2013, according to
the bank.  Katanga Influence  Like the outgoing central bank governor and President
 Joseph Kabila ’s late father, Laurent Desire Kabila, Mutombo
comes from the southern Katanga province, where violence in the
capital, Lubumbashi, by a separatist militia in March killed at
least 15 people. Most of Congo’s copper and cobalt come from
Katanga.  The appointment “further galvanizes and strengthens
Katangan control over crucial areas of government,” Tom Wilson,
head of strategic advisory services at africapractice, an
investment advisory company, said by phone from  London 
yesterday.  “But at the same time it seems that given that long
history in the central bank and that close working relationship
with the former governor, it represents continuity from a policy
perspective,” Wilson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Kavanagh in Kinshasa at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  