-- Core Media Said Shopping Rights to Presley, Muhammad Ali
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2013-05-22T01:30:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/core-media-said-shopping-rights-to-presley-muhammad-ali.html
(Corrects Graceland mansion ownership from first
paragraph.)  The owner of Elvis Presley’s
Graceland and Muhammad Ali Enterprises have put the two
celebrities’ images and rights up for sale, according to a
person with knowledge of the situation.  Core Media Group Inc., owned by  Apollo Global Management
LLC (APO) , hired Raine Group LLC to handle the possible sale, which
includes the 100-acre property in  Memphis ,  Tennessee , said the
person, who sought anonymity because the process is private. The
assets are worth about $200 million, according to the Financial
Times, which reported the action earlier today.  Core Media is seeking to expand its television business,
which owns rights to  brands  including “ American Idol ” and “So
You Think You Can Dance.” The company expressed interest in
buying Endemol NV, the Amsterdam-based producer of TV shows
including “Deal or No Deal” and “Wipeout.” A sale of the
Presley and Ali properties would help Core revive those efforts,
the FT reported.  The two assets produce revenue of about $60 million a year
and $23 million of earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization, the person said.  The Presley family holds a 15 percent stake in  Elvis
Presley  Enterprises, the person said. The family of the former
boxing champion owns 20 percent of Muhammad Ali Enterprises.  Core Media’s press office didn’t immediately respond to an
e-mail request for comment. Kevin Kern, an Elvis Presley
Enterprises spokesman, declined to comment.  Presley Assets  Elvis Presley Enterprises encompasses Graceland’s museum,
restaurants and gift shops. Lisa Marie, the singer’s daughter,
owns the mansion, its 13 acres and artifacts, according to the
website. She leases the property to Elvis Presley Enterprises
for tours.  A new owner of the property, which receives about 550,000
visitors annually, could build an adjacent Elvis-themed hotel,
license an Elvis Presley stage show at an Asian casino and
expand the use of the singer’s image on digital and social
media, the FT reported.  The Elvis estate has more than 110,000 pieces of
memorabilia, including 3,000 pieces of clothing, 30 vehicles,
royalties from 24 films and copyrights and royalties for 1,150
songs, the FT reported.  Muhammad Ali  Enterprises includes rights to 11,000 images,
footage from the boxer’s life and career and 5,000 pieces of
memorabilia, the newspaper said.  Apollo acquired Core Media, previously known as CKX, in
2011 for $509 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  