-- DBS Gets Nod to Buy 40% of Danamon for $2.75 Billion
-- B y   S a n a t   V a l l i k a p p e n   a n d   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g
-- 2013-05-22T08:38:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/dbs-gets-indonesia-nod-for-smaller-danamon-stake-than-sought-1-.html
(Corrects currency conversion in second graph.)  DBS Group Holdings Ltd. (DBS)  got approval
from Indonesia’s central bank to acquire a $2.75 billion stake
in PT Bank Danamon Indonesia, giving Southeast Asia’s largest
lender less control than it had sought.  DBS, which in April 2012 proposed buying all of Danamon
from Temasek Holdings Pte and minority holders, will be allowed
to purchase 40 percent, Bank Indonesia Governor Darmin Nasution
said in Parliament yesterday. Last year’s agreement valued
Danamon shares at 7,000 rupiah (72 cents) each, a 17 percent
premium to their closing price yesterday.  The decision may thwart DBS’s ambition of expanding in
Indonesia, Southeast Asia’s most profitable lending market.
Approval for the proposed $6.8 billion acquisition, which would
have been the region’s biggest banking takeover, has been
delayed as  Indonesia  sought more access for its lenders in the
island nation.  “I would have to question the rationale for going after a
40 percent stake,” said Matthew Smith, an analyst at Macquarie
Capital Securities  Singapore  Pte, who rates DBS as “neutral.”
“If they could just end up holding that, and never be able to
consolidate, that’s got to be a risk.”  DBS  shares  rose 0.4 percent to S$17.41 as of 9:54 a.m. in
Singapore trading. The stock climbed 17 percent this year,
compared with the 9.2 percent gain in the benchmark Straits
Times Index.  ‘Very Reluctant’  DBS hasn’t received written notification of the approval
from Bank Indonesia and “hopes” its application will be
approved as originally submitted,  Karen Ngui , a Singapore-based
spokeswoman at DBS, said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  DBS is “very reluctant” to buy minority stakes, Chief
Executive Officer Piyush Gupta said on May 2, after the bank
reported earnings for the three months to March 31. Basel III
rules that require banks to deduct minority investments of 10
percent or more from their capital make such deals “quite
punitive,” Chief Financial Officer Chng Sok Hui said on the
same day. By contrast, majority acquisitions don’t trigger
capital deductions.  Buying just a 40 percent stake in Danamon could reduce
DBS’s Tier 1 ratio by 70 basis points, and the deal may take
longer to add to earnings than an all-out acquisition, Krishna
Guha, an analyst at Jefferies Group LLC, wrote in an April 23
research note.  “It’s pretty capital inefficient,” Smith at Macquarie
said.  Seeking Reciprocity  The Indonesian central bank is seeking reciprocity for the
three biggest state-owned Indonesian lenders’ operations in
Singapore, Nasution said in Jakarta yesterday. Those lenders are
 PT Bank Mandiri (BMRI) , PT Bank Rakyat Indonesia and PT Bank Negara
Indonesia, he said.  The Monetary Authority of Singapore and Bank Indonesia are
exploring further access into each other’s markets, the
Singapore regulator said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  “In the case of Indonesian banks in Singapore, this will
be by way of a broader provision of financial services, both in
wholesale banking and to, for example, Indonesian students and
work permit holders in Singapore,” it said.  DBS targeted Danamon to help counter narrowing loan margins
and  waning credit demand  in Singapore. The Singapore bank had
agreed last year to pay about 45.2 trillion rupiah to Temasek,
Singapore’s state-owned investment company, for its 67.4 percent
stake, and make a tender offer of 21.2 trillion rupiah for the
remaining shares at 7,000 rupiah each.  Evaluate Duly  “We note the announcement from Bank Indonesia and will
evaluate duly,” said  Jeffrey Fang , a Temasek spokesman.  If DBS was allowed to buy all of Temasek’s stake in Danamon
in a share swap as initially planned last year, the state
investment company’s holding in the Singapore bank will climb to
40.4 percent from 29.5 percent.  Temasek yesterday boosted its stake in  Industrial &
Commercial Bank of China Ltd.  for the third time in a year as
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. ended an investment in the lender.  In Indonesia, ownership rules from the central bank, set
after DBS announced its bid last year, limit lenders’ initial
purchases of stakes in the country’s lenders to 40 percent.
Buyers meeting capital-strength criteria would be allowed to
increase holdings over time, the regulator had said.  Waiting Period  The central bank on March 6 signaled it may implement a
five-year waiting period before acquirers can increase stakes
above 40 percent. Foreign buyers must also commit to supporting
Indonesia’s economy by lending to productive sectors, among
other criteria, it said.  Indonesian lenders are the most profitable among the
world’s 20 biggest economies, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The average return on equity for the country’s five
banks with a market value of more than $5 billion is 22.6
percent, the data show.  The lenders boasted an average net interest margin, a
measure of lending profitability, of 7.3 percent, also the best
among the 20 largest economies, according to the data.  The International Monetary Fund estimates Indonesia’s
economy will expand 6.3 percent this year.  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. (8316)  agreed on May 8 to buy
40 percent of Indonesia’s PT Bank Tabungan Pensiunan Nasional
for about $1.5 billion in the Tokyo-based lender’s biggest
purchase of a foreign financial firm.  Banks in Singapore have a net interest margin of 1.82
percent, the lowest in Southeast Asia, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sanat Vallikappen in Singapore at 
 vallikappen@bloomberg.net ;
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  