-- Deloitte’s Echevarria Joins 9 Others on Obama Voting Commission
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2013-05-21T20:37:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/deloitte-s-echevarria-joins-9-others-on-obama-voting-commission.html
President  Barack Obama  today named
Deloitte LLP Chief Executive Officer Joe Echevarria, a Walt
Disney Co. executive, and scholars and state election officials
to a panel that will recommend ways to make voting in U.S.
elections more efficient.  The president selected 10 people for the election
commission he announced in February’s  State of the Union 
address. The co-chairmen, who Obama previously named, are Bob Bauer, who was counsel to the president’s re-election committee,
and Ben Ginsberg, campaign counsel to Republican presidential
nominee  Mitt Romney .  Along with Echevarria, the members Obama appointed today
include Brian Britton, a vice president of global park
operations for Disney; former Kentucky Secretary of State Trey Grayson, who lost the 2010 Republican Senate primary to Rand Paul and is now director of the politics institute at Harvard
University’s Kennedy School; Larry Lomax, a county registrar in
Nevada, home state of Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid ; and
Christopher Thomas, director of elections in Michigan and a
former Federal Election Commission official.  The other members are Michele Coleman Mayes, vice president
and general counsel for the  New York  Public Library and a former
assistant U.S. attorney; Ann McGeehan, assistant general counsel
of the  Texas  County and District Retirement System and former
director of elections in the Texas Secretary of State’s office;
Tammy Patrick, federal compliance officer for the Maricopa
County, Arizona, Elections Department.  Voting Lines  Obama cited long lines at the polls last November when he
announced the commission, which will look at ways to make it
easier for Americans to cast their ballots.  Black voters, who cast 93 percent of their ballots for
Obama in 2012, and Hispanics, who gave him 71 percent, according
to network exit polls, had average waits of 20 minutes in voting
lines, according to a  study  by Charles Stewart III, who teaches
politics at the  Massachusetts Institute of Technology  in
Cambridge. White voters, who supported Romney by 59 percent to
39 percent, faced an average wait of about 13 minutes.  “The right to vote is one of the most essential rights
provided by the Constitution,” Obama said in a statement today.
“We have an obligation to ensure that all eligible voters have
the opportunity to cast their ballots without unwarranted
obstructions or unnecessary delay.”  The U.S. Supreme Court has yet to rule on a challenge to
the 1965 Voting Rights Act that requires all or part of 16
states with a history of discrimination to get federal approval
before changing their voting rules. The  Justice Department  used
that provision to reject Republican-enacted voter-identification
laws in  South Carolina  and Texas on the grounds that they
discriminated against minorities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 