-- Democratic Republic of Congo Army Fights Rebels for Second Day
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 2013-05-21T17:37:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/democratic-republic-of-congo-army-fights-rebels-for-second-day.html
Democratic Republic  of Congo’s army
fired mortars and used helicopter gunships against rebel targets
near the eastern city of Goma for a second day, spokesmen for
the rebels and the  United Nations  said.  Fighting began yesterday about 7 kilometers (4.4 miles)
outside Goma amid stalled peace talks between the government and
the M23 rebel group in Kampala, the capital of neighboring
 Uganda . The negotiations started after M23 rebels seized the
trading city in November before withdrawing 11 days later under
pressure from the international community.  About 15 fighters for M23 were killed yesterday as well as
four government soldiers, Congolese Minister of Media Lambert Mende said in an e-mailed statement today. Rebel spokesman
Colonel Vianney Kazarama didn’t answer his mobile phone when
 Bloomberg News  called for his account of the death toll.  “M23 and those who support them in the region deliberately
perpetrated this attack to slow the advent of peace in the
region,” Mende said.  United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-Moon is scheduled
to arrive in Congo tomorrow and he will travel to neighboring
Rwanda and Uganda this week to discuss the conflict in the
region, according to an e-mailed statement from the UN.  Countries “need to comply with their commitments to bring
peace to this troubled region so in turn we can bring the
benefits of development to war-weary people,” Ban said today on
a visit to  Mozambique , according to the statement. Last year,
Congo and UN experts accused Rwanda and Uganda of supporting the
M23, which both countries denied.  Stronger Brigade  The UN is deploying a new brigade of troops with a
strengthened mandate to attack armed groups in eastern Congo,
which has suffered nearly two decades of conflict. The arrival
of the UN brigade, which will work support to a UN peacekeeping
force, has increased tension in the region, Congolese army
spokesman Colonel Olivier Hamuli said yesterday.  The M23, which is led by former rebels who mutinied from
the army last year, remains “firmly attached” to the  peace
process , spokesman Amani Kabasha said in an e-mailed statement
today. “It remains the only way to a lasting solution to the
crisis in our country,” Kabasha said.  The Congolese army has deployed helicopters, “heavy
caliber weapons, mortars and rocket launchers,” the UN mission
in Congo said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Kavanagh in Kinshasa at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  