-- Depardieu Praises ‘Democrats’ Putin, Chechen Leader
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2013-05-22T15:59:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/depardieu-praises-democrats-putin-chechen-leader.html
Gerard Depardieu , the French actor
just awarded Russian citizenship, praised his “special
relationship” with Chechen strongman Ramzan Kadyrov as he
started filming a movie in the mainly Muslim Russian region.  Depardieu, 64, who is starring in a thriller set in Moscow
and Chechnya with U.K. actress and model  Elizabeth Hurley , will
spend three weeks on location in the once war-torn republic.  “I have recently become a Russian citizen and I am proud
of this because I see that in Russia people live very well,”
the actor told a news conference in the Chechen capital Grozny
yesterday. “I’ve seen a people in the full flower of
democracy.”  Kadyrov, 36, is accused by human rights organizations of
ordering torture and abductions, charges he denies. The Chechen
leader, who has presided over the reconstruction of his southern
region, gave Depardieu a luxury high-rise apartment when he
visited Grozny earlier this year.  In the film, “Turquoise,” Depardieu plays an ex-convict
and art-heist specialist who travels to Moscow to avenge the
death of his son at the hand of diamond smugglers and meets his
old love, played by Hurley. Some of the action takes place in
Grozny and the surrounding countryside.  “The film highlights Moscow’s thriving art scene,
seductive nightlife, and stunning architecture,” the synopsis
says. “Chechnya’s beautiful natural landscape and extraordinary
redevelopment” is seen through the eyes of the hero, it says.  Ferrara Movie  The Franco-Russian actor has just finished “Welcome to  New
York ,” a movie directed by Abel Ferrara based on the 2011
arrest on rape charges of former International Monetary Fund
head  Dominique Strauss-Kahn .  Depardieu, who fled  France  to avoid taxes imposed on the
wealthy by Socialist President  Francois Hollande , dined with
President  Vladimir Putin  in the Black Sea resort of Sochi in
January after receiving his new citizenship.  “I have come to Russia because Putin is a democrat,” he
said in Grozny.  Depardieu has also been given an apartment about 600
kilometers east of Moscow, in Saransk, the capital of Mordovia,
a region known during Soviet dictator  Josef Stalin ’s reign for
its network of labor camps.  Hurley, 47, the former partner of British actor  Hugh Grant 
and a model for  Estee Lauder , said that “at first I had to take
a very deep breath” when French director Philippe Martinez told
her the film would be partly shot in Chechnya.  “I realized it was a very good opportunity for me,” she
told the news conference, “to come to a part of the world that
I wouldn’t necessarily have expected to visit at this time.”  Bomb Rubble  Putin groomed Kadyrov to lead Chechnya after his father
Akhmad died in a bomb attack in 2004. Tens of thousands of
people were killed and forced to flee their homes during two
1990s separatist wars. Grozny, which was almost reduced to
rubble, is now a city of gleaming new buildings, including
luxury high-rises.  Frenchman Arnaud Frilley, who produced Depardieu’s 2011
picture about Grigory Rasputin, the peasant mystic with a hold
over  Russia ’s last royal family, is producing this one, too.  Depardieu wrote in an open letter to French Prime Minister
Jean-Marc Ayrault published in the French weekly Journal du
Dimanche in December that he would leave the country because his
 tax rate  had hit 85 percent. He bought a home and applied for
citizenship in  Belgium  before Putin made him a citizen of
Russia, where the tax rate is a flat 13 percent.  Violence Pledge  A month later, he travelled to Chechnya, where he agreed
with Kadyrov to make a film in the region. Kadyrov, who vetted
the script, insisted there should be “no violence against
women,” Depardieu said. The movie was partly Russian-financed.  Journalist  Anna Politkovskaya , who criticized Putin’s
efforts to pacify Chechnya by force and accused Kadyrov’s
security force of abuses, was murdered in 2006 in Moscow.
Kadyrov has said he would welcome punishment of her killers.  “Depardieu stopped being just a Frenchman a long time ago
-- he belongs to the entire planet,” Chechen parliament speaker
Dukuvakha Abdurakhmanov said in an interview. “So I’m glad he
accepted our invitation, all Chechens are happy about that.  “There is a friendship between our national leader and
Depardieu: Vladimir Putin, Ramzan Kadyrov and Gerard Depardieu -
- these are unique figures, and the fact that they meet and
share their views of what the world should be like is in the
interests of the friendship, tolerance and unity of the
peoples,” he said.  Rights Abuse  Tanya Lokshina, a researcher for New York-based Human
Rights Watch who tracks abuses in Chechnya, said if Depardieu
had accepted money from Kadyrov for the film, that wouldn’t be
“a good idea.”  “Law enforcement agencies operating under the de facto
control of Kadyrov are involved in disappearances and torture,”
she said. “Kadyrov operates Chechnya as a private empire.”  Depardieu compared Putin to the late Pope  John Paul II  in
an interview with Russian newspaper Komsomolskaya Pravda
published last week.  “For me he’s like (late French President)  Francois Mitterrand  or Pope John Paul II,” Depardieu said.  The actor’s ties to Putin and Kadyrov are normal for
someone of his stature, said the film’s producer, Frilley. “He’s
met dozens if not hundreds of presidents,” he told reporters
today.  Muse highlights include  Frederik Balfour  on the art market,
 Ryan Sutton  on New York dining and  Amanda Gordon’s  Scene Last
Night.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Grozny, Russia, at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 