-- Deutsche Bank Seeks to Avoid Law Suits With Board Changes
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2013-05-21T22:01:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/deutsche-bank-seeks-to-avoid-law-suits-with-board-changes.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , continental
Europe’s biggest bank, is asking investors to replace three non-bankers supervising its executives with finance and legal
experts after litigation-related costs eroded profit last year.  Shareholders meeting in Frankfurt tomorrow will vote on
naming John Cryan, president for Europe at Singapore investment
firm Temasek Holdings Pte, Dina Dublon, former chief financial
officer at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , and Georg Thoma, a partner at
law firm Shearman & Sterling LLP, to its supervisory board.  Deutsche Bank co-Chief Executive Officers Anshu Jain and
Juergen Fitschen are grappling with legal entanglements that
include probes into the rigging of interbank borrowing rates,
U.S. lawsuits tied to mortgage-backed bonds and a Milan fraud
conviction. Chairman  Paul Achleitner , in an April statement,
described the board nominees as experts in financial matters,
market risk and legal issues.  “They’re up to their necks in litigation -- it’s a real
battle,”  Christopher Wheeler , an analyst with  Mediobanca SpA (MB) ,
said in a phone interview from  London . “The company won’t
escape litigation in the future, given the scale of its business,
but they want to try and limit any new developments while they
deal with the legacy issues.”  Deutsche Bank’s expenses, excluding compensation and some
other costs, jumped 19 percent to 15 billion euros last year on
higher legal provisions and funds for overhauling its business.
Those costs contributed to a 2.53 billion-euro fourth-quarter
 loss , the biggest since the three months that followed the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008.  ‘Reputation Risk’  Deutsche Bank raised its litigation reserves to 2.4 billion
euros by the end of March from about 800 million euros six
months earlier as it set aside money for regulatory
investigations and U.S. mortgage lawsuits, it said in a
presentation posted on its website last month.  The German bank’s shareholders are paying for alleged
misconduct by some of the company’s employees, says Helmut Hipper, a  fund manager  at Union Investment GmbH in Frankfurt.  “While they generated great returns at the time, the
burdens came later,” says Hipper, whose firm holds about one
percent of Deutsche Bank’s shares. “That is a matter of concern.
There’s a reputation risk and it costs money.”  Achleitner, the 56-year-old chairman, wants to set up a
compliance committee on the board to head off future legal
issues,  Der Spiegel  reported on May 17, without citing anyone.
Deutsche Bank spokesman Christian Streckert declined to comment
on the report.  Form, Substance  Such efforts need to be complemented by actions by
executives, said Mediobanca’s Wheeler.  “Starting a committee on the supervisory board is more
form over substance,” said the London-based analyst, who has a
neutral recommendation on the stock. “You’ve really got to have
people on the ground to make a difference.”  Deutsche Bank sought to improve corporate governance last
year by splitting oversight of risk and legal affairs between
Stuart Lewis and Stephan Leithner.  It also hired Daniela Weber-Rey, 55, as chief governance
officer and deputy global head of compliance from law firm
Clifford Chance LLP. She starts next month.  “The past has to be dealt with,” Achleitner said in an
interview with Frankfurter Allgemeine Sonntagszeitung published
May 19. “But don’t forget, almost everything we’re talking
about now dates back to before 2009. We’ll deal with this, but
you can’t do that from one day to the next.”  Ex-UBS CFO  Cryan, the former CFO of UBS, has spent more than two
decades in finance. Dublon joined Chemical Bank, which
eventually became JPMorgan, as a trainee on the trading floor in
1981 before retiring from the firm in 2004. Thoma at Shearman &
Sterling worked for Depfa Bank Plc on its 5.7 billion-euro
acquisition by Hypo Real Estate Holding AG.  Cryan, Dublon and Thoma didn’t answer e-mails from
 Bloomberg News  seeking comment on what priorities they will set
if they join the supervisory board.  Regulators from  Canada  to  Switzerland  are investigating
whether more than a dozen banks, including Deutsche Bank,
colluded to rig lending rates.  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  UBS AG (UBSN)  and
Edinburgh-based  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  have paid a
total of about $2.5 billion in penalties after admitting
wrongdoing.  Beyond Libor  Deutsche Bank has suspended or fired at least seven people
over alleged inappropriate behavior related to interbank rate
submissions, people familiar with the matter said in February.
That’s fewer employees than London-based Barclays and UBS of
Zurich each disciplined or dismissed, company and regulatory
filings show.  Neither Deutsche Bank’s internal rates probe nor that of
Bafin, its main regulator, has yet found evidence that current
or former management board members engaged in wrongdoing,
officials at the bank and Bonn-based Bafin have said. Bafin is
continuing its investigation after informing the German Finance
Ministry of preliminary findings at the end of March.  Deutsche Bank’s Streckert declined to comment on the probe.  The bank’s legal woes aren’t limited to interbank rate-rigging and will continue to weigh on the stock,  Kian Abouhossein , an analyst with JPMorgan, wrote in a May 21 report.
He lowered his rating on Deutsche Bank to neutral from
overweight.  Kirch, Milan  The stock fell 2.3 percent to 36.66 euros in Frankfurt
trading yesterday, paring its gain  this year  to 11 percent. That
compares with a 12 percent  increase  in the 40-company Bloomberg
Europe Banks and Financial Services Index.  The company is a defendant in several civil suits as an
issuer or underwriter of U.S. residential mortgage-backed
securities. Deutsche Bank had $5.3 billion of outstanding
mortgage repurchase demands at the end of March against which it
held about $500 million of reserves, it said in the April 29
presentation.  A Munich court found Deutsche Bank and former CEO  Rolf Breuer  partially liable in December for statements he made in
2002, before the Kirch group of German media companies filed for
bankruptcy. The court had previously said that Deutsche Bank may
have to pay the heirs of now-deceased entrepreneur  Leo Kirch  as
much as 1.5 billion euros in a case tied to the collapse.  In Milan, a judge convicted the bank and three other firms
in December of fraud in the sale of derivatives to hedge the
city’s interest-rate risk. The bank has said it plans to appeal.  In  Germany , corporate law requires listed companies to be
headed by a two-tier system with a management board responsible
for day-to-day operations and a supervisory board, whose main
task is to oversee the management board and appoint its members.  20-Member Board  If elected, Cryan, 52, and Thoma, 68, will replace Karl-Gerhard Eick, previously CFO of phone company  Deutsche Telekom
AG (DTE) , and Werner Wenning, the former chief executive officer of
drug and chemical maker  Bayer AG. (BAYN)  Dublon will stand to replace
Tilman Todenhoefer, ex-deputy CEO of auto-parts maker  Robert
Bosch GmbH , at the beginning of November, according to the bank.  Wenning, 66, helped pick the new board members, Achleitner
said in an April 16 statement. Eick made “an outstanding
contribution” as audit committee chairman while Todenhoefer, 69,
helped take “key decisions” as a member of the group that
makes recommendations on management pay, Achleitner said.  The terms of all three departing board members were due to
expire this year, according to the bank’s annual report.  Half of the 20-member supervisory board represents
employees, while the other half is elected by shareholders. The
chairman has two votes in case of a draw.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  