-- Deutsche Bank Cut by JPMorgan on Concern Over Capital
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2013-05-21T10:13:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/deutsche-bank-cut-by-jpmorgan-on-concern-over-capital.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , continental
 Europe ’s biggest bank, was cut to neutral from overweight by
JPMorgan Chase & Co., which said tighter regulation threatens
capital levels.  The  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision ’s proposed
revision to a securitization framework governing riskier assets
would reduce Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank’s common equity Tier
1 capital ratio under Basel III rules to as little as 8.6
percent in 2014 from 10.2 percent, JPMorgan analysts including
Kian Abouhossein said in a report to clients from  London  today.  Reversing an increase to Deutsche Bank’s rating three weeks
ago, JPMorgan said a 3 billion-euro ($3.9 billion) capital
increase on April 30 “was clearly a defensive move” to offset
the impact of “potential capital ‘curve balls’ such as Basel
securitization proposals.” Regulators may publish the final
rules next year, JPMorgan said.  Deutsche Bank  fell  as much as 3.6 percent to 36.16 euros in
Frankfurt trading, heading for the biggest drop in a month. The
stock will trade at “a high implied risk premium” compared
with other European banks, rising to 38 euros by December, the
analysts said. JPMorgan prefers  Barclays Plc (BARC) , they said.  Rules’ Impact  Regulators are overhauling capital rules after widespread
securitization, or repackaged assets that are sliced up and sold
on to clients, in the U.S. mortgage market contributed to the
financial crisis by spreading risk from lenders to the so-called
shadow-banking industry. Banks have written to the Basel
committee to say the plans, which will force them to hold more
reserves against such products, will tie up capital and starve
the economy of credit.  Deutsche Bank would be the most affected of seven European
banks analyzed by JPMorgan under its “worst case” scenario.
Credit Suisse Group AG of Zurich would be the least affected,
with its common equity ratio falling 0.2 percentage points, the
report shows.  In the “best case,” Barclays would see the measure of its
reserves rise 0.2 percentage points while  France ’s  Credit
Agricole SA (ACA)  would post the group’s biggest decline at 0.3
percentage points, according to JPMorgan. That scenario is
“highly unlikely” and the regulation will probably be closer
to the bank’s negative option, they wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  