-- Did You Graduate in Four Years? Congratulations
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V e d d e r
-- 2013-05-21T21:59:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/did-you-graduate-in-four-years-congratulations.html
For the U.S. college students who
will be  paying  for a four-year bachelor’s degree long after
graduation day, here’s some consolation: At least it didn’t take
you six or eight years.  College is expensive, yet unpredictably so. Some students
pay little for degrees from elite private institutions, after
tuition discounts and financial aid. Many of their peers,
however, will pay  far more  than they expected for lower-cost
universities.  A big reason for this is the increasing number of years it
takes to earn a degree. Instead of doing something about this
troubling trend, presidents of many public universities are
encouraging it. Four-year degrees are passe. More and more
often, administrators want to draw attention to six- or even
eight-year graduation rates, as if this was the new normal.  The U.S. Education Department  reports  the percentage of
college students who graduate within four, five or six years.
The national data are embarrassing -- 34 percent of those who
earn a bachelor’s degree need a fifth or sixth year to do it.  Many schools, ashamed by their low numbers, have pressed
for a more liberal definition of graduation. And the Education
Department, seemingly more interested in placating colleges than
providing useful information to students, has now dropped the
somewhat-useful five-year graduation standard on its College
Navigator  website  and included an eight-year rate. Why stop
there -- why not a 25- or 50-year graduation rate? If you tell
an applicant that “70 percent of our students graduate in eight
years,” is that really useful information?  Cheaper Ivies  Elite private schools can cost far less relative to public
schools, not only because of the top schools’ generous aid, but
also because the students mostly graduate in the advertised four
years, while those at state schools don’t.  I  looked  at 20 elite private schools (the Ivy League
colleges and others, including Stanford, Duke, Northwestern, the
 University of Chicago  and the  Massachusetts Institute of
Technology ) and calculated that 87 percent of the students in
the median Class of 2011 had graduated in four years, and 95
percent in six years. I then took an unbiased sample of 20
lower-quality state universities (one of every 12 from the 248
state schools that Forbes magazine ranks). At the state schools,
25 percent of students typically graduated in four years, and 55
percent in six. More strikingly, the probability of dropping out
was vastly greater at the state schools.  Seven years of tuition costs roughly 75 percent more than
four years’ worth does, and the income lost from not graduating
in four years probably exceeds $100,000.  The implicit flouting of the time-is-money rule is starting
to be more obvious. Total university enrollments have  stopped 
growing as perceived costs rise relative to perceived benefits.
Talk of three-year bachelor degrees has  grown . They are the
standard in  Europe  now.  (Even more bold talk of shortening the degree is occurring
at law schools. I attended an American Bar Association meeting
recently where serious mention was made of the possibility of a
two-year law degree. The basic elements of a U.S. legal
education can be taught in two years, and the extra year of
theoretical or highly specialized courses may not be necessary.
Could we not offer a five-year combined undergraduate and law
degree?)  While the Education Department moves to provide less useful
real-world data, a bipartisan congressional  effort  is growing to
force colleges to give prospective students more helpful
information than eight-year graduation rates.  More Openness  A measure in the Senate would give students post-graduation
salary information by major and even provide a federal  “unit
record”  database -- tracking students from college into the
workforce -- that would provide much better analysis of the
performance of individual schools.  Colleges have successfully warded off the unit-records
approach, even getting it outlawed in 2008 on the bogus grounds
that individuals’ privacy would be compromised. The schools’
real fear is of being explicitly compared with competitors.
Universities want to keep living the good life, with lots of
public subsidies, rising salaries for top administrators and
little accountability or exposure to market forces. For evidence
of this, look no further than the acceptance of an eight-year
undergraduate degree.  (Richard Vedder, a contributor to Bloomberg View, directs
the Center for College Affordability and Productivity, teaches
economics at Ohio University and is an adjunct scholar at the
 American Enterprise Institute . The opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Richard Vedder at  vedder@ohio.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net  