-- Dudley Says He Can’t Be Sure If Next QE Move Is ‘Up or Down’
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2013-05-21T20:29:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/dudley-says-he-can-t-be-sure-if-next-qe-move-is-up-or-down-.html
Federal Reserve Bank of  New York 
President William C. Dudley said he has not decided whether the
Fed’s next move should be to enlarge or shrink its bond buying
program as he called for a fresh look at its eventual retreat
from record asset purchases.  “Because the outlook is uncertain, I cannot be sure which
way -- up or down -- the next change will be,” Dudley said in a
speech today in New York.  Dudley adds his voice to a debate on the  Federal Open
Market Committee  about what to do with its program of bond
purchases, designed to lower the 7.5 percent unemployment rate.
While many Fed officials have voiced support for shrinking
purchases as the next step, Dudley, who is also vice chairman of
the FOMC, signaled willingness to increase purchases.  Officials last week expressed a range of views on the
program. Philadelphia Fed President  Charles Plosser  called for
shrinking purchases at the Fed’s next meeting;  San Francisco ’s
 John Williams  favored a reduction “perhaps as early as this
summer.” By contrast,  Boston ’s  Eric Rosengren  said low
inflation and high unemployment suggest there may be a need for
even more stimulus, not less.  Stocks extended gains after Dudley’s comments. The Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index climbed 0.2 percent to 1,669.16 after earlier
declining as much as 0.2 percent. The yield on the 10-year
Treasury note fell to 1.93 percent from 1.97 percent late
yesterday.  June Meeting  The FOMC’s next policy-setting meeting is scheduled for
June 18-19. “We have to think that QE is going to stick around
for a while and when we go into the June meeting we probably
shouldn’t expect tapering,” said Christopher Low, chief
economist at FTN Financial in New York.  Earlier today, St. Louis Fed President  James Bullard  said
the central bank should continue its bond buying because it’s
the best available option for policy makers to boost growth that
is slower than expected.  The purchases known as quantitative easing should be
maintained because financial markets indicate that they are
improving financial conditions and can be adjusted based on how
the economy changes, Bullard, who votes on the policy-setting
Federal Open Market Committee this year, said in the text of
remarks prepared for delivery in  Frankfurt .  Incoming Data  “Quantitative easing is closest to standard monetary
policy, involves clear action and has been effective,” Bullard
said. The panel should continue the program while “adjusting
the rate of purchases appropriately in view of incoming data on
both real economic performance and inflation.”  In discussing the next steps for the stimulus program,
Dudley said the Fed may need to overhaul its plan to eventually
normalize monetary policy, which was adopted in 2011.  “We may need to update our thinking with respect to the
so-called exit principles,” Dudley said. The strategy said the
Fed would stop reinvesting the assets on its balance sheet,
raise short-term  interest rates , and finally sell mortgage-backed securities. “This seems stale in several respects,” he
said.  Dudley said that the strategy is outdated because policy
makers have since pledged to hold their target interest rate
near zero until unemployment falls to 6.5 percent. He also said
the central bank may want to abandon its plan to sell mortgage-backed securities eventually.  Exit Strategy  “To the extent that the committee wants to reduce the risk
of disrupting market functioning during normalization, it could
decide to indicate that it will avoid selling the MBS portfolio
during the early stages of the normalization process,” Dudley
said. “Moreover, to the extent that the committee wants to
mitigate the risk of a sharp increase in long-term rates, it
could judge that it would prefer not to commit to agency MBS
sales.”  The Fed announced $40 billion of monthly mortgage bond
purchases in September and added $45 billion of monthly Treasury
purchases in December, bringing total purchases to $85 billion a
month. Those efforts have pushed the Fed’s balance sheet to a
record $3.35 trillion.  Dudley spoke to the  Japan  Society in New York, and his
remarks offered reflections on the experience of central banks
such as the Fed and the  Bank of Japan  that have lowered their
target interest rates near zero and still been unable to
generate a full-fledged economic recovery.  Japan’s Easing  The Bank of Japan, led by Governor Haruhiko Kuroda,
announced last month that it would double the monetary base as
part of a plan to end more than a decade of deflation that has
weighed down the world’s third-largest economy. Prices excluding
fresh food haven’t risen 2 percent in any year since 1997, when
a  sales tax  was increased.  Responding to a question from the audience about U.S.
inflation, Dudley said he’s not too concerned about a slowing
rate of price gains and that he’d be “surprised” if it eased
further. Inflation expectations are still anchored, he said,
adding that “I’m watching it.”  Dudley also said the Fed’s policy approach has been “far
from perfect,” and that the central bank was overly optimistic
about growth prospects in the 2009-2012 period.  “With the benefit of hindsight, we did not provide enough
stimulus,” he said. “Perhaps, if we had paid more attention to
the persistent divergence between growth forecasts and outturns
in Japan in the 1990s, we might have been more skeptical about
the prospects for a strong economic recovery, even with a more
aggressive monetary policy regime.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  