-- Tea Party Group Sues Tax Collectors for Privacy Breach
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-05-21T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/tea-party-group-sues-tax-collectors-for-privacy-breach.html
A northern California-based advocacy
group called the NorCal Tea Party Patriots sued the U.S.
Internal Revenue Service for allegedly breaching its federal
 privacy rights  and the rights of like-minded organizations.  The IRS has acknowledged that employees in its Cincinnati
office targeted for special review groups seeking tax-exempt
status as social welfare organizations that were also advocates
for limited government and free markets.  President  Barack Obama  has called the conduct
“outrageous.” Four congressional committees are reviewing the
matter and acting IRS Commissioner  Steven Miller  resigned.  “Under pain of denial of tax-exempt status, the IRS and
its agents singled out groups like NorCal Tea Party Patriots for
intensive and intrusive scrutiny,” the group alleged yesterday
in a complaint filed at the U.S. court in Cincinnati.  The IRS probed the group members’ associates, speech,
activities and beliefs, according to the complaint. Those
actions, which began in 2010, allegedly violated the U.S.
Constitution and laws permitting the agency to retain only those
records “relevant and necessary” to accomplish its purpose.  The agency is accused of requesting information to which it
wasn’t entitled and then using it for intimidation and delay
based on a group’s viewpoint.  “The IRS has no immediate comment,” an agency spokesman,
 Dean Patterson , said of the lawsuit today by phone. The agency
generally doesn’t comment on pending litigation, he said.  Tougher Questioning  Groups with “tea party” or “patriot” in their names
received tougher questioning and had longer delays than others
in a practice that the IRS acknowledged May 10.  NorCal Tea Party Patriots, based in Colfax,  California ,
describes itself as a non-profit and non-partisan social welfare
group advocating fiscal responsibility, limited governance and
free markets.  It seeks group status for “all conservative and
libertarian groups targeted for additional scrutiny” between
March 2010 and May 2013, together with unspecified money damages
for the alleged violation of their constitutional rights and
costs of compliance with the unlawful demands.  The case is NorCal Tea Party Patriots v. The  Internal
Revenue Service , 13-cv-00341, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of  Ohio  (Cincinnati).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at  aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  