-- EDF in Talks to Sell Slovak Stake for 400 Million Euros
-- B y   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s
-- 2013-05-21T17:31:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/edf-in-talks-to-sell-slovak-stake-for-400-million-euros.html
Electricite de France SA ,  Europe ’s
biggest power generator, is in exclusive talks to sell a 49
percent stake in a Slovakian electricity distributor for about
400 million euros ($514 million), EDF said in a statement today.  EDF announced it is in exclusive negotiations with Czech
utility Energeticky a Prumyslovy Holding AS to sell a stake in
the company, Stredoslovenska Energetika AS, which operates in
the central province of Zilina, according to the statement. The
deal is expected to be signed in the coming days, the company
said.  EDF, controlled by the French government, acquired the
business known as SSE for 160 million euros in 2002 and has
received about 200 millions euros in dividends since the
purchase, said a person with knowledge of the matter, who asked
not to be identified as some details aren’t public. The sale is
part of a move by EDF to dispose of holdings where it doesn’t
have full control. The company may sell minority stakes in
companies including Swiss utility  Alpiq Holding AG (ALPH) , and sold its
interest in Germany’s  EnBW Energie Baden-Wuerttemberg AG. (EBK)   The other stakeholder in SSE is the Slovakian government’s
National Property Fund. SSE has more than 700,000 customers,
according to the company’s website. The sale price represents
more than six times the company’s 2012 earnings before interest,
tax, depreciation and amortization.  EPH, based in  Prague , earlier this year agreed to acquire
Slovak gas utility Slovensky Plynarensky Priemysel AS.  An official at EPH was unavailable outside of normal
business hours. An official at EDF declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jacqueline Simmons in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  