-- Medtronic’s Heart Rhythm Devices Show Signs of Growth
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2013-05-21T14:15:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/medtronic-s-heart-rhythm-devices-show-signs-of-growth.html
Medtronic Inc. (MDT) , the world’s biggest
maker of heart-rhythm devices, said fourth-quarter sales of
pacemakers and defibrillators rose, surprising analysts who
expected shrinking demand to continue. The shares climbed to
their highest value in almost five years.  Defibrillator sales gained 1.5 percent to $755 million in
the three months ended April 26, the first increase since the
same quarter in 2010. Revenue from pacemakers climbed 2.6
percent to $505 million, the first gain since the Minneapolis-based company introduced an MRI-safe device at the end of 2011.  The increased sales helped boost the quarter’s  revenue  3.8
percent to $4.46 billion from $4.3 billion a year earlier, the
company said in a statement today. Profit excluding one-time
items of $1.10 a share beat by 7 cents the average of 24
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “Overall, they gained pretty substantial market share in
defibrillators and pacemakers,” said Jason McGorman, an analyst
at Bloomberg Industries in Princeton,  New Jersey , in a telephone
interview. “They were the only company that grew ICD revenue
year-over-year. People were expecting low- to mid-single digit
sales declines for U.S. ICDs, because that’s what the trend has
been for the overall market.”  Medtronic rose 6.6 percent to $53.20 at 10:10 a.m.  New York 
time after earlier reaching $53.83, its highest intraday price
since September 2008. The shares had increased 35 percent in the
past 12 months through yesterday.  Earnings Forecast  The company forecast  earnings  of $3.80 to $3.85 a share for
fiscal 2014, bracketing the $3.84 a share average of 24
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Net income  for the quarter fell to $969 million, or 95
cents a share, from $991 million, or 94 cents, a year earlier,
Medtronic said.  The company gained share in all of its businesses, Chief
Executive Officer Omar Ishrak said in a telephone interview.
Demand for spinal products and defibrillators in the U.S. both
increased for the first time in 4.5 years, he said.  “This is noteworthy, especially as these businesses have
been an impediment to our overall growth profile,” he said.
“This is another step in establishing credibility and
delivering consistently over an extended period of time.”  While the markets for heart rhythm devices and spinal
products have stopped declining, they haven’t resumed expanding,
Ishrak said. Medtronic was able to grow in the areas because of
the introduction of new products and the reorganization of the
sales force, he said.  The company’s cardiovascular group reaches out to
physicians, hospitals and administrators in a more coordinated
manner, he said.  “We’re working with them on a much more consolidated
basis, and it’s driving over business,” he said. “They can see
the clinical and economic value that these products create.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  