-- Medtronic Device Safely Fixes Aortic Value in Study
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2013-05-21T22:25:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/medtronic-device-safely-fixes-aortic-value-in-study.html
Medtronic Inc. (MDT) ’s CoreValve, a device
threaded into the heart via a catheter and expanded to repair a
damaged aortic valve, dramatically improved symptoms without
causing excessive cardiovascular complications after one year.  A study of 806 patients showed 13 percent had moderate to
severe  symptoms  after treatment for calcification to a valve
that sits between the heart’s main pumping chamber and the
artery that carries oxygen-rich blood to the body. A year
earlier, 80 percent of the participants had the symptoms, which
included fatigue that limited physical functioning, according to
the findings presented today at the  EuroPCR  meeting in Paris.  Patients in the study known as Advance were considered at
high risk from dying if they underwent traditional, open-heart
surgery to fix the damage. A separate analysis also found that
the cost of the procedure and the device, called transcatheter
aortic implant, or Tavi, is significantly less than many other
treatments, Minneapolis-based Medtronic said in a statement.  “We know that these interventions are expensive, and we
sometimes wonder if they are worthwhile,” said  Stephen Brecker ,
a researcher and cardiologist from St. George’s Hospital in
 London  who presented the findings. “Now we have evidence that
Tavi with CoreValve represents good value for health-care
spending in terms of additional quality and quantity of life.”  Study Data  Patients in the trial received the CoreValve at one of 44
centers in 12 countries in Western Europe, Asia and South
America. Heart attack, stroke, retreatment or death occurred in
21.2 percent of patients after one year. Major bleeding occurred
in 11 percent of patients, and 1 in 5 needed a pacemaker.  Regurgitation, where the blood flows backward, occurred at
a moderate level in 13 percent of patients getting the device,
the study found. The risk didn’t boost death rates, as seen in
studies of rival devices. Moderate leakage around the valve
developed in 12 percent of patients within a month and remained
stable after one year, with no severe leakage.  A second-generation rival valve from  Edwards (EW)  Lifesciences
Corp., Sapien XT, posted one-year survival rates of 81 percent
in its own registry. Strokes occurred in 6.3 percent of
patients, while regurgitation developed in 6.2 percent,
according to the analysis of 2,688 patients treated at 93
centers in Europe.  The findings eased concern that the Sapien XT could allow
blood to flow backward, a factor that has been linked to higher
death rates.  No Comparison  The results from the two studies weren’t directly
comparable. The patients in the Edwards study were sicker than
those in the Medtronic trial, including some who wouldn’t have
qualified for traditional surgery. They also received the Sapien
XT valve via four approved methods, including directly into the
heart via an incision between the ribs and under the collarbone.  Medtronic, which also reported fiscal fourth-quarter profit
that beat analyst estimates today, rose 4.9 percent to $52.35 at
the close in New York, the biggest one-day gain since August
2011. The shares have increased 39 percent in the past 12
months. Edwards shares fell less than 1 percent to $66.  A separate analysis of Medtronic’s study presented at the
meeting found treatment, including the operation, the device and
hospital stay, cost 7,700 pounds ($11,750) for every additional
year of life it granted.  Medtronic’s CoreValve and Edwards’ Sapien XT are both sold
in Europe. They are in clinical testing needed to win clearance
in the U.S. from the Food and Drug Administration.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  