-- Egypt’s Dollar Black Market Premium Falls Amid Pound Decline
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2013-05-21T14:17:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/egypt-s-dollar-black-market-premium-falls-amid-pound-decline.html
The premium dealers demand for
dollars in  Egypt ’s unofficial currency market is falling as the
pound goes through what JPMorgan Asset Management called “non-chaotic maximum devaluation.”  The U.S. currency is selling for 7.47 Egyptian pounds in
the Arab country’s so-called black market, a 7 percent premium
to the official price, according to the average of three quotes
from money exchangers compiled by Bloomberg. That’s down from a
premium of 7.9 percent in an April 15 survey and 15 percent on
April 2. The dealers, who run currency exchange businesses in
Cairo, asked not to be identified because the trade is illegal.  The gap is narrowing as the pound depreciates at a faster
pace at central bank currency auctions, which began in December
to limit the supply of dollars to the market amid dwindling
foreign reserves. The pound has lost 0.9 piaster per auction on
average since the start of April, compared with a 0.5 piaster
average decline in March, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The pound is experiencing “non-chaotic maximum
devaluation, but still looks like it’s somewhat expensive to
fair value,” George Iwanicki, emerging market macro strategist
at JP Morgan Asset Management, said in an e-mailed report today.
“The issue in Egypt is political uncertainty, which has led to
capital outflows and a very sharp ‘burn’ in the foreign exchange
reserves base that the central bank enjoys.”  ‘Increased Scrutiny’  Egypt is revising its economic plan amid negotiations for a
$4.8 billion loan from the  International Monetary Fund , the
Washington-based lender’s  Middle East  and Central Asia
department head Masood Ahmed said in an interview in Dubai
today. The pound was little changed at 6.9819 a dollar as of
3:59 p.m. in Cairo, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It
has dropped 11 percent since the start of the currency auctions.  “The spread is closing after the pound was allowed to
weaken faster over the last month and as FX bureaus became more
careful because of increased central bank scrutiny,”  Mona Mansour , chief economist at Cairo-based CI Capital, said by
phone. “But we don’t expect further narrowing of the spread
until there’s a solid government reform plan that leads to an
IMF agreement.”  The yield on the government’s $1 billion of 5.75 percent
bonds due in April 2020 advanced for a fourth day, rising two
basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 7.55 percent. That’s
the highest level on a closing basis in more than six weeks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  