-- Telefonica Squeezes Most Cash From Mobile Use: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n a   S c i a u d o n e
-- 2013-05-21T21:36:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/telefonica-squeezes-most-cash-from-mobile-use-corporate-brazil.html
Telefonica Brasil SA,  the nation’s
biggest telecommunications company , is beating Oi SA and  Tim (TIMP3) 
Participacoes SA at squeezing more revenue from users as slowing
demand prompts a hunt for more profitable customers.  With the market maturing and the number of first-time
subscribers dwindling, Telefonica Brasil, which operates the
Vivo brand, still managed to increase average monthly customer
bills by 3.4 percent in the first quarter from a year earlier.
That compares with a drop of 3.6 percent for Tim, 3.8 percent
for Oi and 11 percent for America Movil SAB’s Claro, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  There are already 32 percent more phones than  people  in
 Brazil , the world’s fifth-largest mobile market, according to
regulator Anatel and consulting firm Teleco. More than 80
percent of users are in the prepaid segment, and their migration
to long-term contracts represents the best opportunity for
carriers, said Richard Dineen of HSBC Holdings Plc.  “We expect Vivo will continue to enjoy the dividends of
high and consistent investment in building the leading quality
network in Brazil,” said Dineen, a telecommunications analyst
in  New York . “You can see it in the company’s margins, which
are comfortably above the margins of rivals.”  Profit margin at Telefonica of 32.1 percent in the first
quarter exceeded that of Oi, at 30.5 percent, and Tim, at 25.9
percent, leaving out items such as interest, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Telefonica Brasil, based in Sao Paulo,
last quarter overtook  Spain  as the the  biggest  source of revenue
of Madrid-based parent  Telefonica SA. (TEF)   Stock Outperforming  Telefonica was little changed at 53.84 reais at the close
in Sao Paulo. It has gained 9.9 percent this year, compared with
a 2.7 percent gain for Tim and a 44 percent decline for Oi.
Telefonica and Tim are trading at 13 times 2013 earnings, with
Oi at 8.6 times.  In a market where mobile-phone customer satisfaction has
been falling, Telefonica’s Vivo is boosting revenue by improving
network coverage and quality. An Anatel industry  survey  released
this year showed that 53.7 percent of mobile-service contract
subscribers were satisfied in 2012, down from 71.4 percent in
2002; among prepaid clients, customer satisfaction fell to 60
percent from 77.5 percent.  Investing in the network to reduce dropped calls and
improve Internet connections “has made the company transform
something that was apparently a commodity into something that
can be priced differently,” said Marcelo Mollica, a partner at
Rio de Janeiro-based GAP Asset Management, which manages about
12 billion reais ($5.89 billion), including Telefonica shares.  Fewer Complaints  Vivo receives fewer complaints than competitors, with
20,800 in February, the most recent month available, compared
with 24,700 for next-best Tim, according to Anatel.  Vivo offers “the most attractive plan currently on the
market, in terms of both pricing and attributes,” according to
an Itau BBA report last week by analysts Susana Salaru and
Gregorio Tomassi.  Users of data, such as music downloads and video streaming,
climbed 64 percent at Vivo in the first quarter compared to a
year earlier. Postpaid, or contract, subscriptions climbed 17.4
percent. Vivo offers 3G coverage -- short for third-generation -
- in 3,121 cities, more than double the amount of Claro, the
next-closest competitor, according to Teleco.  “Our 3G coverage is greater than our competitors’, and
that allows us to capture more clients,” said Cristiane Baretto, Telefonica Brasil’s executive director of financial
strategy and  investor relations .  Connection Fees  Oi attributed its drop in first-quarter average revenue per
user to industrywide fee cuts mandated by Anatel, even as
prepaid subscriptions grew and the postpaid business improved,
said Chief Financial Officer Alex Zornig in a written response
to questions. The number of prepaid clients at Rio de Janeiro-based Oi rose 3.6 percent to 40 million in the first quarter
from a year earlier.  Tim’s press office in  Rio de Janeiro  didn’t respond to a
request for comment on the decline in average revenue per user.
An America Movil press official in Mexico City declined to
comment.  While Telefonica Brasil’s wireless business is thriving,
it’s been “canceled out” by the declining landline business,
where sales slipped 8.9 percent in the first quarter, Dineen
said. More users are shutting off their home phones to go
mobile-only as wireless prices become more attractive.  Contract wireless subscribers are a steadier source of
revenue compared to prepaid users, who have the flexibility to
postpone topping off their accounts in times of economic
turbulence, Mollica said. Brazil’s  economic  expansion slowed to
0.9 percent in 2012 from 2.7 percent in 2011.  “It clearly has an effect on the level of recharging and
phone-buying in the prepaid segment,” Mollica said by
telephone. “Postpaid users are the most valuable in Brazil, and
that’s the big driver behind the focus on that segment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christiana Sciaudone in  Sao Paulo  at 
 csciaudone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  