-- Hellenic Petroleum Structured Note Draws Bets on Greek Recovery
-- B y   A l a s t a i r   M a r s h
-- 2013-05-21T07:44:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/hellenic-petroleum-structured-note-draws-bets-on-greek-recovery.html
Bank of America Corp.  sold the first
structured notes tied to  Greece ’s largest refiner,  Hellenic
Petroleum SA (ELPE) , as investors bet on a recovery in the nation at
the heart of  Europe ’s debt crisis.  The lender raised a total $8 million in the first
securities linked to a Greek company since 2008, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The notes combining debt with
derivatives were offered in four parts and mature in ten weeks
to 36 weeks.  Investors are returning to Greece after international
creditors approved a further 7.5 billion euros ($9.7 billion) of
bailout funds to the country last week, citing progress in
fiscal and structural reforms. That was followed by an upgrade
from  Fitch Ratings , which sparked a sovereign-bond rally that
pushed yields on 10-year  bonds  to the lowest in three years.  “Positive momentum is building in Greece and some
investors are assuming the worst is over and looking for
opportunities to profit from a recovery,” said Nordine Farsi,
head of structured credit trading at Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg in  London .  The zero coupon bonds linked to Hellenic Petroleum were
sold at a discount of 1.7 percent to 6.3 percent. Investors in
zero coupon securities typically receive returns based on the
difference between the discount and par.  Alexandra Parry, a spokeswoman for Bank of America in
London, and Vasilis Tsaitas, a spokesman for the Athens-based
refiner, declined to comment on the notes.  Debut Bond  Hellenic Petroleum entered the  bond market  for the first
time last month, selling four-year notes that pay a coupon of 8
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Investor
demand for riskier assets spurred the unrated refiner to
increase the size of the offering to 500 million euros from 400
million euros.  Demand for debut bonds from Greek refrigerator equipment
supplier Frigoglass SA, which sold 250 million euros of debt
last week, also exceeded expectations, said Torsten Tuerling,
chief executive of the junk-rated company.  “There is strong momentum towards anything Greek at the
moment,” said Gabriel Sterne, an economist at Exotix Ltd., a
London-based brokerage specializing in illiquid bonds and loans.  Fitch upgraded Greece’s credit rating to B- from CCC, or
six levels below investment grade, on May 14, citing progress in
rebalancing the economy and a lower risk of exit from the euro
area. Still, public debt sustainability remains “far from
assured and will be dependent on economic recovery and a
sustained primary fiscal surplus,” Fitch said in a statement.  Greek Recession  Greece’s economy will shrink another 4.2 percent this year,
its sixth year of recession, before recovering 0.6 percent in
2014, according to a European Commission report published May
17, which described the country’s outlook as “inherently
uncertain.” Unemployment also reached a record  27 percent  in
February, according to the Hellenic Statistical Authority.  Xenon Capital Plc, a special-purpose vehicle incorporated
in Ireland, sold the last structured notes tied to a Greek
company in May 2008, Bloomberg data show. The 5 million euros of
3 1/2-year notes were linked to the debt of  Alpha Bank SA (ALPHA) ,
Greece’s third-biggest lender.  Credit-linked notes can have higher yields and tailored
maturities that may not be available in the bond market.
Investors suffer losses in the event of a default by the bank
issuing the securities or the linked entity.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alastair Marsh in London at 
 amarsh25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  