-- Enbridge Targeting Public Over Regulators to Build Gateway Line
-- B y   R e b e c c a   P e n t y   a n d   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n
-- 2013-05-21T15:17:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/enbridge-targeting-public-over-regulators-to-build-gateway-line.html
Enbridge Inc. (ENB) , Canada’s largest oil
pipeline operator, is spending more time seeking public support
for new conduits than regulatory approval as opponents of fossil
fuel development try to block new routes to market, Chief
Executive Officer Al  Monaco  said.  “It’s not so much about getting the regulatory authority,
it’s all about ensuring that the public is comfortable,” Monaco
said at the Bloomberg Canada Economic Summit in Toronto today.
“That’s the price of entry and that’s where we have to focus
our energy more.”  Enbridge has proposed the C$6 billion ($5.82 billion)
Northern Gateway pipeline to carry oil-sands crude from  Alberta 
to Canada’s Pacific Coast. Environmental and some aboriginal
groups oppose the 1,177-kilometer (731 mile) project because of
the risk of spills.  New conduits are needed from Canada to correct a “huge
disconnect” in North American  oil prices  as supply exceeds
pipeline capacity, Monaco said. Constraints on existing lines
have caused Canadian heavy oil prices to trade at a discount to
West Texas Intermediate, the U.S benchmark.  Western Canada Select oil was  $21 a barrel less  than WTI
today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The price gap amounts to “C$25 billion a year of value
destruction” for the Canadian economy, Frank McKenna, deputy
chairman of Toronto-Dominion Bank, said during the panel
discussion with Monaco.  Enbridge has about C$30 billion of projects in design and
construction to carry crude to new markets, Monaco said. The
company owns and operates Canada’s largest oil pipeline network,
spanning 24,738 kilometers, according to its website.  Canada ’s National Energy Board regulator has until the end
of the year to make a recommendation on Gateway. Monaco said
he’s “heartened” a decision will come this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rebecca Penty in Toronto at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net ;
Jeremy van Loon in Toronto at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  