-- Tepco Surges a Fourth Day on Reactor Restart Speculation
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a
-- 2013-05-21T07:16:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/tepco-surges-a-fourth-day-on-reactor-restart-speculation.html
Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501) , operator of
the stricken Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant, surged for a  fourth
consecutive day , bringing gains to 59 percent in the period amid
speculation it will apply soon to restart idled reactors.  Shares of the utility known as Tepco rose 12 percent to 815
yen at the end of trading on the Tokyo Stock Exchange, their
 highest close  since March 25, 2011. Tepco, which is also Japan’s
biggest power company by generating capacity, is the  best
performer  on the benchmark Nikkei 225 stock average in the past
four days and is the fourth-best performer among MSCI AC Asia
Pacific Index members today.  Tepco’s 13 nuclear reactors remain shut, along with most of
 Japan ’s atomic plants, as the nation’s utilities carry out
checks and upgrade equipment to meet new safety rules after the
Fukushima earthquake and nuclear disaster. Based on a turnaround
plan released in May 2012, Tepco has said it may return to
profit this fiscal year assuming four of seven reactors at its
Kashiwazaki Kariwa nuclear plant will be restarted by December.  “Whether the Kashiwazaki Kariwa plant can resume
operations would make the difference between life and death for
Tepco,” said Tomoko Murakami, a nuclear analyst at the
Institute of Energy Economics, Japan. Should Kashiwazaki Kariwa
not be restarted, “the only remaining option for Tepco would be
to raise electricity rates further.”  Tepco Restart Questions  Tepco, which relies on coal-, gas- and oil-fired plants to
make up for lost nuclear power generation, lifted electricity
rates for households by 8.46 percent in September to cover
rising fuel costs.  Tepco shares yesterday rose 16 percent to 726 yen after the
Yomiuri newspaper reported the utility will apply to the Nuclear
Regulation Authority for a restart of No. 1 and No. 7 units at
the Kashiwazaki Kariwa plant in northern Japan in July.  Tepco denied the Yomiuri report and said the utility is
still designing a filtered vent system, part of the new safety
requirements to be set by the nuclear safety watchdog. The
company can’t say when it can complete the installation.  The utility has lost 62 percent of its market value since
the March 11 quake and tsunami in 2011 caused three meltdowns
and the release of radiation at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant.  Abe Fuels Surge  The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  has advanced about 50 percent in the same
period and the 17-member  TOPIX Electric Power & Gas index  is
down about 19 percent.  Last month, Japan’s nine power companies reported combined
losses of about 1.6 trillion yen ($15.6 billion) for a second
consecutive year as they face higher fossil fuel bills with most
nuclear reactors shut. The utilities will be forced to pay 3.8
trillion yen more in combined fuel costs this fiscal year,
compared with fiscal 2010, because of shutdowns and a weaker
yen, according to a government advisory board estimate in April.  The Nikkei has surged since the beginning of the year as
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, aided by the  Bank of Japan , embarked
on a quest to end 15 years of deflation and reinstate Japan as a
pillar of the global economy.  The yen has fallen more than 15 percent against the dollar
this year, the biggest decliner among 16 major currencies
tracked by Bloomberg, amid the Bank of Japan’s introduction of a
new easing policy to help the government fight deflation.  The Nikkei’s 48 percent gain since Jan. 1 compares with a
17 percent advance for the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  and a
16.8 percent rise for the Standard and Poor’s 500 index.  Abe, who took office in December, is reviewing Japan’s
energy policies and plans to set out a strategy later this year
after parliamentary elections due in July. He told lawmakers on
Feb. 28 that he’ll restart some nuclear reactors once the
nation’s nuclear safety watchdog confirms the safety of the
plants. The previous government aimed to phase out nuclear power
by the end of the 2030s.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  