-- Merck to Buy Back $5 Billion of Its Shares From Goldman
-- B y   S h a n n o n   P e t t y p i e c e
-- 2013-05-21T22:18:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/merck-to-buy-back-5-billion-of-its-shares-from-goldman.html
Merck & Co. (MRK) , the second-biggest U.S.
drugmaker, reached a deal to repurchase $5 billion of its shares
from  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  as part of a buyback program
announced earlier this month.  Merck will make an initial purchase of 99.5 million shares
based on current market prices, according to a statement today
from the  Whitehouse Station , New Jersey-based company. The
transaction is expected to be completed by Nov. 25.  Merck, facing generic competition to what was once its
best-selling drug, earlier this month cut its full-year guidance
in anticipation of lower sales and said it would buy back as
much as $15 billion in shares. The move is a good use of cash
and may help appease investors who have lost 22 percent of their
value in the stock over the past six years, said Bill Smead,
chief investment officer at Smead Capital Management.  “The stock has been down so long,” Smead, whose firm owns
shares, said in a telephone interview. “There is nothing else
to do with the cash if you are already expensing your R&D and
already paying a good dividend. If you have extra cash there is
really nothing to do with that than a share buyback unless you
are going to make an acquisition.”  Merck sold bonds last week to fund some of the share
repurchases, which the company had said were to reach about $7.5
billion over 12 months.  “This accelerated share repurchase demonstrates our
commitment to delivering increased value to shareholders in the
short term, while continuing to invest in the important
opportunities that will drive our long-term growth,” Merck
Chief Executive Officer  Kenneth Frazier  said in the statement.  Merck rose 4.7 percent to $47.33 at the close in  New York 
time prior to the announcement. The drugmaker has gained 26
percent in the past 12 months.  Merck has been struggling to boost profit since its once
 top-selling  asthma medicine Singulair began facing generic
competition in August and research setbacks have delayed new
products.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shannon Pettypiece in New York at 
 spettypiece@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  