-- Ergen Said to Offer $2 Billion for LightSquared Frequencies
-- B y   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n   a n d   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2013-05-21T20:10:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/ergen-said-to-offer-2-billion-for-lightsquared-frequencies-2-.html
Charlie Ergen , chairman of satellite-TV provider  Dish Network Corp. (DISH) , made a $2 billion bid for radio
frequencies from LightSquared Inc., the bankrupt wireless-broadband company owned by  Philip Falcone ’s hedge-fund firm,
according to people familiar with the offer.  Ergen, 60, has offered to buy the spectrum -- the
frequencies used for wireless communications -- even though the
Federal Communications Commission has yet to approve its use,
according to the people, who asked not to be named because the
deal hasn’t been shown to the bankruptcy judge. Reston,
Virginia-based LightSquared filed for bankruptcy last year after
regulators blocked approval to build its network on concern it
would interfere with global-positioning system signals.  Obtaining LightSquared’s airwaves would help Ergen expand
his wireless assets at the same time Dish is seeking to acquire
mobile-phone carrier  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  for $25.5 billion.
Ergen’s goal is for Dish to sell voice and Internet services to
complement its TV offering.  Ergen’s bid is a so-called stalking-horse agreement, used
in bankruptcy proceedings to establish a minimum price for an
asset sale. A stalking-horse bid would have to be approved by
the judge before being used to open an auction.  May Deadline  LightSquared would use the proceeds from selling its
airwaves to pay off secured debt, according to the people. The
company has until May 31 to accept the offer, which was made May
15, the people said.  A LightSquared spokesman declined to comment, while Brian Maddox, a spokesman for Englewood, Colorado-based Dish, didn’t
immediately return calls and an e-mail. Neil Grace, an FCC
spokesman, declined to comment.  In March, LightSquared won court approval for additional
financing that included a settlement with some of its lenders.
The loan gave LightSquared an additional $5 million, and in
return, LightSquared agreed that its exclusive rights to file
its own Chapter 11 plan would end July 15.  Dish was arranging financing last week for its Sprint
proposal, which is competing with a $20.1 billion bid from
Tokyo-based  SoftBank Corp. (9984)  Thus far  Overland Park , Kansas-based
Sprint hasn’t given Dish access to the detailed financial
information needed to move forward with a transaction.  LightSquared and Sprint have a history together. Sprint had
a network-sharing agreement with Falcone’s company before
canceling it last year after LightSquared failed to get
government approval for its network. LightSquared filed for
 bankruptcy protection  two months later.  Adding Airwaves  Late last year, Dish received permission from the FCC to
set up a wireless service that could compete with the largest
U.S. mobile provider,  Verizon Wireless , and No. 2  AT&T Inc. (T)  It
first asked for approval in August 2011 after paying about $3
billion for airwaves from bankrupt satellite companies DBSD
North America Inc. and TerreStar Networks Inc.  Dish’s bid for LightSquared’s airwaves came less than a
week after Falcone, 50, agreed to a settlement with the
Securities and Exchange Commission over claims he improperly
borrowed $113 million from one of his funds to pay his taxes.
The funds are in the process of selling assets after Falcone
agreed to be barred from the industry for two years, while his
hedge-fund firm Harbinger Capital Partners LLC would pay an $18
million fine. Falcone’s two main hedge funds invested $3 billion
in LightSquared, which now accounts for about 50 percent of
their holdings.  Earlier this month FCC Chairman  Julius Genachowski  said he
expects LightSquared to eventually win approval to use its
airwaves. The company has looked into possible swaps of
frequencies for cleaner airwaves and tighter enforcement of
signal parameters in GPS devices, Genachowski said.  Tentative Go-Ahead  The FCC under Genachowski gave LightSquared a tentative go-ahead in 2011, then blocked it last year after tests showed the
proposed high-speed network for as many as 260 million people
would interfere with GPS units, including those that help keep
aircraft from crashing into mountains.  Last month, the FCC gave LightSquared permission to
experiment with sharing airwaves now used by U.S. government
weather satellites and weather balloons.  Genachowski is to step down as head of the FCC, and Tom Wheeler, a venture capitalist and former lobbyist, has been
nominated to replace him.  Dish rose 3.2 percent to $39.93 at the close in  New York ,
bringing its year-to-date gain to 9.7 percent. Sprint climbed
1.4 percent to $7.39. It has increased 30 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katherine Burton in New York at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  