-- Etisalat Nigeria Signs $1.2 Billion Loan for Network Expansion
-- B y   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 2013-05-21T13:42:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/etisalat-nigeria-signs-1-2-billion-loan-for-network-expansion.html
Emirates Telecommunications Corp. (ETISALAT) ,
the largest publicly traded company in the  United Arab Emirates (ADSMI) ,
said its Nigerian unit secured a $1.2 billion loan to refinance
existing debt and grow its network.  “The company plans to use the proceeds to refinance the
existing commercial medium term debt of $650 million and
continue its network rollout” across the West African country,
Emirates Chief Financial Officer Serkan Okandan said today in an
e-mailed statement. The “medium term syndicated loan” is
denominated in both naira and dollars and comes from a group of
13 Nigerian lenders, he said.  Nigerian mobile phone operators are investing in their
networks to overcome frequent power cuts and the sabotage of
facilities in the country’s mainly Muslim north, where Islamist
militants target telecommunications companies for helping the
authorities to track them. MTN Nigerian Communication Ltd., the
country’s biggest mobile phone provider, said in April it got a
$3 billion loan from a group of 17 local banks and seven foreign
lenders.  Etisalat, as the Emirates unit is known, is the fourth-largest mobile phone operator in  Africa ’s most populous country.
It wants 20 million active subscribers by the end of the year,
compared with about 15.2 million now, according to the company.  South Africa ’s MTN is the largest operator with 50.6
million users, or 45 percent of total mobile subscribers,
according to data compiled by the  Nigeria Communications
Commission  in February.  Nigeria ’s Globacom Ltd. has 23.8 million
customers and New Delhi-based  Bharti Airtel ltd.  has 23.5
million.  Etisalat got a $650 million loan from eight Nigerian banks
to expand its mobile phone network in 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dulue Mbachu at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net  