-- MetLife Limits Offshore Reinsurance After N.Y. Review
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-05-21T14:35:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/metlife-limits-offshore-reinsurance-after-n-y-review.html
MetLife Inc. (MET)  said it would combine an
offshore reinsurer with three U.S. life units after regulators
began an investigation into the use of intra-company liability
transfers, saying such arrangements could mask risk.  MetLife, the largest U.S. life insurer, plans to merge
subsidiaries in  Connecticut ,  Delaware  and  Missouri  with its
offshore reinsurer for variable annuities, known as Exeter
Reassurance, according to a slide presentation for the company’s
investor meeting today. The combination requires regulatory
approval and will probably be completed in 2014, MetLife said.  The merger “proactively addresses recent regulatory
concerns about the use of captive reinsurers,” New York-based
MetLife said in the presentation. It could also help the company
be in a “better position to deal with Dodd-Frank derivative
collateral requirements.”  New York  State’s Department of Financial Services, led by
 Benjamin Lawsky , began an investigation into captive insurers in
July, requesting information about the arrangements from about
80 life insurers in the state, including MetLife. The entities
can threaten financial stability and reduce the amount of
reserves insurers hold to pay future claims, Lawsky said in a
 speech  last month.  “This financial alchemy, let’s call it shadow insurance,
does not actually transfer the risk for those insurance policies
off the parent company’s books, because in many instances, the
parent company is ultimately still on the hook,” Lawsky said
“Shadow insurance could leave insurance companies less able to
deal with losses.”  ‘Shadowy World’  Lawsky praised MetLife’s announcement in a Twitter message
today, citing “progress on making the shadowy world of
insurance ‘captives’ more transparent.”  MetLife Chief Executive Officer Steve Kandarian said the
offshore reinsurance program began in 2001 and “makes less
sense” now.  “The New York Department of Financial Services’ industry
inquiry regarding captives was an important factor in our taking
a closer look at our offshore reinsurance subsidiary,”
Kandarian, 61, said at the investor presentation. “We’re going
to take steps to bring these businesses back on shore and to a
more highly capitalized, U.S.-based and U.S.-regulated entity.”  Captives are units set up by a firm to cover risk elsewhere
in the company. They may be located in offshore locations such
as Bermuda and the  Cayman Islands , or in the U.S.  MetLife fell 0.5 percent to $43.08 at 10:29 a.m. in New
York, trimming this year’s advance to 31 percent.  Prudential
Financial Inc. (PRU) , the No. 2 U.S. life insurer, is up 28 percent
since Dec. 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  