-- MetLife Avoids Buffett Reinsurer as CEO Confronts Risk
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2013-05-21T20:13:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/metlife-avoids-buffett-reinsurer-as-ceo-confronts-risk.html
MetLife Inc. (MET) , the largest U.S. life
insurer, is looking beyond  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. (BRK/A)  as Chief Executive Officer  Steven Kandarian  seeks ways to
limit risk from retirement products known as variable annuities.  “To our knowledge, there’s only one major player who has a
balance sheet large enough to offer variable annuity
reinsurance, but it’s very pricey,” John Hele, MetLife’s chief
financial officer, said today at a presentation to investors.
“Warren and Ajit do very high returns on their side, so it
really doesn’t make economical sense, from what we’ve seen.”  Kandarian is seeking to show that MetLife can generate
adequate returns on annuities after the industry was burned by
low  interest rates  and stock-market volatility, which increased
liabilities. Buffett and his reinsurance lieutenant,  Ajit Jain ,
have profited by assuming obligations from insurers cutting
risks or narrowing their focus.  MetLife spent the first portion of today’s investor meeting
detailing cash flows from annuities and strategies to limit
market-related losses on the contracts, which typically
guarantee minimum returns for clients. Kandarian has raised fees
and cut guarantees while scaling back sales.  “We think that we’ve got a pretty good risk profile
here,” said Eric Steigerwalt, who oversees the U.S. retail
business. “We’re committed to this business.”  Still, Steigerwalt said MetLife is researching options to
cut risks tied to contracts sold before the financial crisis,
which carried higher guarantees and suffered when equities
plunged. He said the New York-based insurer has weighed paying
clients to give up some contracts or guarantees, a step taken by
 Hartford Financial Services Group Inc. (HIG)  and U.S. units of  Axa SA (CS) 
and  Aegon NV. (AGN)   ‘Every Possibility’  “If we can find a couple of places where it would be
appropriate for the client, and helpful to Met, we could do
something like that,” Steigerwalt said in response to a
question about annuity buyouts. “We have not announced
anything. We don’t intend to announce anything tomorrow. But
we’re thinking about every possibility.”  Kandarian’s company slipped 1.1 percent to $42.82 at 4:01
p.m. in  New York  trading. The insurer has rallied 30 percent
since Dec. 31.  MetLife is  targeting  $10 billion to $11 billion in U.S.
variable annuity sales this year, down from $28.4 billion in
2011. Sales were about $15.3 billion in 2007. The company has
said the amount at risk is greatest from contracts sold prior to
the financial crisis that began in 2008.  Cigna Deal  Cigna Corp. (CI)  agreed in February to pay Omaha, Nebraska-based
Berkshire $2.2 billion to take on as much as $4 billion in
liabilities tied to death benefits and retirement products sold
more than a decade ago. Reinsurance deals give Buffett more
funds to invest and make acquisitions at the firm he’s built
from a textile maker into a $278 billion company that hauls
freight, operates electric utilities and manufactures chemicals.  Buffett didn’t respond to a request for comment sent to an
assistant. Chris Breslin, a MetLife spokesman, declined to
comment on any contact between the insurer and Berkshire.  MetLife also said today it would combine an offshore
variable-annuity reinsurance unit with three U.S. subsidiaries,
after New York State’s financial regulator began an industrywide
investigation into the use of such intra-company liability
transfers, saying they could mask risk. The combination was
spurred by the New York Department of Financial Services’
inquiry and by new derivatives regulations, Kandarian said.  DFS Superintendent  Benjamin Lawsky  praised Kandarian’s
plan. He said his probe of the arrangements, known as captive
reinsurance, would continue for the industry.  “The company’s decision represents a step in the right
direction as we seek to address the risks created by the shadowy
world of ‘captive’ reinsurance,” Lawsky said in an e-mailed
statement. “Now is the time to address these troubling vehicles
before policyholders and our economy are seriously damaged. We
will aggressively continue our investigation into shadow
insurance across the industry.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  