-- EU Aides Say Transaction Tax Design Hurts Sovereign Debt
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2013-05-22T10:18:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/eu-aides-say-transaction-tax-design-hurts-sovereign-debt.html
Government bonds should be excluded
from the European Union’s planned financial-transaction tax
because the levy would drive up sovereign borrowing costs, a
panel of European debt-management officials said.  Primary issuance, secondary-market trading, related
derivatives and repurchase agreements all affect borrowing
costs, which would rise unless transactions involving government
debt are exempt, according to an April 18 letter to senior EU
finance aides that was obtained by  Bloomberg News .  The proposed tax “underestimates the impact of the
proposal on market liquidity,” said the two-page analysis
signed by Anne Leclercq, director for treasury and capital
markets in  Belgium ’s finance ministry in Brussels. “This impact
would substantially reduce the attractiveness of sovereign bonds
and jeopardize diversification of the investor base, in
particular for those sovereign issuers for which liquidity is at
the heart of their strategy.”  The officials’ concern adds to warnings issued by European
Central Bank policy makers. ECB Executive Board members Yves Mersch and Benoit Coeure both questioned the tax’s design this
month. The ECB’s Bond Market Contact Group said in a May 6
report that the proposal would hurt banks and disrupt markets.  Findings ‘Exaggerated’  EU Tax Commissioner Algirdas Semeta said the debt managers’
reservations are overblown.  “I think that their findings are exaggerated,” he said
today in an interview with Francine Lacqua on Bloomberg
Television’s “The Pulse.” The low proposed tax rates, combined
with exemptions for primary sales and trades with national debt
managers, are sufficient to safeguard markets, he said.  “The scope which was proposed by the commission
corresponds to the need to ensure that it is impossible to
circumvent the tax,” Semeta said. “We consider that this would
be the best solution.”  Semeta aims to create the transaction tax to take effect as
soon as next year. The proposed levy could be collected
worldwide by  France ,  Germany  and nine other EU nations,
including Belgium, that have so far signed up, if the effort
stays on schedule.  ‘Patchwork’  The EU is trying to remedy what it sees as a “patchwork”
of levies and rein in speculative trading. The plan would charge
a 0.1 percent rate for stock and bond trades and 0.01 percent
for derivatives transactions, with some exemptions for primary-market sales and trades with the ECB.  The Brussels-based European Commission has resisted calls
to exclude derivatives and secondary-market trading from the tax
proposal, even when those trades involve  government bonds . The
commission has estimated that any increase in borrowing costs
would be offset by income raised.  The current proposal doesn’t give enough weight to the
tax’s effects on transaction costs, price formation, volatility
and  bid-offer spreads , according to the subcommittee’s letter.
It also runs the risk of reducing trading volumes and damaging
sovereign debt markets that already are smaller and less liquid.  Sovereign borrowers might also face “undue consequences”
on the maturity profile of their borrowing, along with possible
incentives to take on more  currency risk , the subcommittee
letter said.  “The proposal -- as it is currently drafted -- negates the
existence of a business model in sovereign debt markets, in
which market-making is the corner stone of liquidity,” said the
document. It also “does not consider the potential impact
taxation of derivatives will have on the tapping of new foreign
currency bond markets by sovereigns, as cross-currency swaps
will be more expensive.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  