-- EU May Renew Levies on Bottle Material From Asia
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2013-05-21T11:05:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/eu-may-renew-levies-on-bottle-material-from-asia.html
The European Union scrapped tariffs
against five Asian nations on a chemical used to make bottles
for water and soft drinks including Coca-Cola, ending 13 years
of trade protection.  EU governments decided today in Brussels to let lapse the
duties on polyethylene terephthalate from  India ,  Indonesia ,
Malaysia, Taiwan and  Thailand . The  import taxes , introduced in
2000, punished producers in these countries for allegedly
selling polyethylene terephthalate in  Europe  below cost, a
practice known as  dumping .  The anti-dumping duties as high as 200.90 euros ($258.40) a
metric ton had been due to expire in February 2012 following an
initial renewal in 2007 and then stayed in place during a probe
into whether to extend them a second time to curb competition
for EU producers such as  Spain ’s Novapet SA. Today’s decision is
the outcome of the inquiry.  The European Commission, the EU’s trade authority that
conducted the investigation, recommended re-imposing the duties
against India, Taiwan and Thailand and removing the levies
against Indonesia and  Malaysia . EU governments decided to end
the measures against all five countries.  In a separate decision today, EU governments renewed for
five years a separate set of duties against India on
polyethylene terephthalate to counter alleged subsidies to
Indian manufacturers. That was in line with a proposal by the
commission. The decisions on both the anti-dumping and anti-subsidy duties will take effect after being published in the EU
 Official Journal  in the coming days or weeks.  The expiring anti-dumping duties are as much as 200.90
euros a ton on India; up to 187.70 euros on Indonesia; as high
as 160.10 euros on Malaysia; as much as 143.40 euros on  Taiwan ,
depending on the company; and 83.20 euros on Thailand.  The renewed anti-subsidy duties against India are as high
as 106.50 euros a ton.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Strasbourg, France at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  