-- EU Urges Energy Market as U.S. Shale Gas Widens Price Gap
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2013-05-22T17:55:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/eu-seeks-energy-integration-as-u-s-shale-gas-widens-price-gap.html
European Union leaders urged faster
integration of the bloc’s power and natural-gas markets to lower
energy prices as the U.S. shale-gas revolution widens the EU’s
cost gap with its largest trading partner.  The 27-nation EU must accelerate efforts to implement
energy legislation aimed at breaking down national barriers by
2014 and develop interconnections to end the isolation of some
 member states  from networks by 2015, according to a statement
adopted by the leaders’ summit in Brussels today.  The summit initiative came after a record drop in private
investment in Europe and the biggest-ever slump in the EU carbon
market, designed to cut pollution and stimulate a shift to
cleaner fuels.  “The EU’s energy policy must ensure security of supply for
households and companies at affordable and competitive prices
and costs, in a safe and sustainable manner,” according to the
conclusions. “This is particularly important for Europe’s
competitiveness in the light of increasing energy demand from
major economies and high energy prices and costs.”  At stake is an EU campaign to win energy-policy authority
from national officials that compares with existing European
powers over monetary, antitrust, trade and agriculture matters.
Some governments, including the U.K., are lagging behind in
introducing rules in line with EU legislation more than two
years after a deadline passed.  Price Gap  If the EU becomes a fully integrated market, it could save
as much as 35 billion euros ($45 billion) a year in electricity
costs in 2015 compared with 2012, according to the European
Commission, the bloc’s regulatory arm.  Shale-gas production has contributed to a widening gap
between U.S. and EU industrial prices for energy, according to a
commission report prepared for the summit. “In 2012, industry
gas prices were more than four times lower in the U.S. than in
 Europe ,” the report said.  As the EU’s oil and gas import dependency is set to
increase to more than 80 percent until 2035, the U.S. is on its
way to become a net exporter, according to the  International
Energy Agency .  The increase in European energy prices is linked to the
inconsistency of EU policies to boost the share of renewable
energy, increase  energy efficiency  and cut greenhouse gases, as
well as to national policies that distort the internal market,
according to a study commissioned by BusinessEurope, a Brussels-based employers’ federation.  ‘Cost Burdens’  “The U.S. industry already has a head start on global
markets -- this means that any additional cost burdens on
European industry should be avoided if competitiveness is to be
ensured,” Frontier Economics Ltd. said in the study.  While companies such as  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  have begun drilling
exploration wells in countries including  Poland , shale-gas
production in Europe won’t make the region self-sufficient in
natural gas, according to a 2012 study by the EU Joint Research
Centre. Under the best-case scenario declining conventional
production could be replaced and import dependence maintained at
a level around 60 percent, it said.  Indigenous Resources  As some policy makers and environmental groups are seeking
stricter controls on shale gas exploration, EU leaders agreed
it’s crucial to “further intensify the diversification of
Europe’s energy supply and develop indigenous energy
resources,” according to the conclusions.  Poland’s Prime Minister Donald Tusk told reporters today
before the summit that he was satisfied with the wording as it
treats shale gas as an opportunity and lets countries explore it
as an option in national energy mixes.  Europe needs to diversify its energy sources, boost
efficiency, modernize infrastructure and complete the internal
market, although shale gas development in Europe may not be a
“silver bullet,” according to lobby group Shale Gas Europe,
which is supported by companies including  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,
 Halliburton Co. (HAL)  and  Statoil ASA. (STL)   Energy costs in the EU will remain above the U.S. because
of differences related to infrastructure, rock structure and
legislation, Iain Conn, head of  BP Plc (BP/) ’s refining and marketing
unit, said March 16.  ‘Cheap Coal’  “Europe is more dependent on imported energy and although
Europe is benefiting -- if I can call it that -- from cheap coal
coming from the U.S. as a result of this, Europe’s cost of
energy for the economy is going to be higher than in the U.S.
for the foreseeable future,” he said.  As a net importer, Europe can boost energy efficiency,
create a market based on smart infrastructure, exploit
conventional and unconventional energy sources and bet on
innovation in order to ensure secure and competitive prices,
according to the commission. By 2020, the region needs to invest
1 trillion euros to reach its goal, the commission said.  Financing investment in “new and intelligent
infrastructure” should primarily come from the market,
according to the summit conclusions. Private investment in
Europe tumbled by a record 350 billion euros in 2007-2011, 20
times the drop in private consumption and four times the decline
in real gross domestic product, according to a  report  by the
McKinsey Global Institute published last year.  Carbon Market  “This makes it all the more important to have a well-functioning carbon market and a predictable climate and energy
policy framework post-2020 which is conducive to mobilizing
private capital and to bringing down costs for energy
investment,” according to the summit conclusions today.  EU leaders will return to the issue of 2030 energy and
climate rules in March 2014, after the commission comes forward
with a “more concrete proposals,” they said in the document.
They will then discuss policy options, taking into account
objectives set for a global climate deal sought in 2015.  The leaders’ statement showed that while it is
“extremely” important to address the issues of competitiveness
and energy costs, they also realize that the climate challenge
remains urgent, EU Climate Commissioner  Connie Hedegaard  said.  “The commission has now also got the green light to
present concrete proposals before the end of this year,” she
said in an e-mailed statement.  Prices in the European emissions trading system tumbled to
a record low of 2.46 euros a metric ton last month amid a
surplus of allowances and concerns that lawmakers may fail to
reduce the glut. That compares with 25-30 euros expected by
policy makers when the cap-and-trade system was created in 2005.  Carbon permits for December fell 6.7 percent today to 3.32
euros a ton, the lowest closing price in more than a week and
the biggest one-day decline since May 10.  EU leaders also called on the commission to study how
energy prices are affecting Europe’s competitiveness and what
response is needed. The EU will need to look at innovative
financing methods, improved liquidity in the energy market and
the issue of the contractual linkage of gas and oil prices, they
said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  