-- Bankers Who Make More Than Their Bosses Face EU Bonus Curbs
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2013-05-21T17:38:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/eu-seeks-to-widen-net-for-bankers-targeted-in-bonuses-clampdown.html
Bankers who make more than their
bosses could be ensnared by European Union bonus curbs even if
their total pay is less than 500,000 euros ($644,000), under
proposals from the bloc’s top regulator of the industry.  The  European Banking Authority  also targeted the best paid
0.3 percent of staff in a bank, and some bankers with bonuses
higher than 75,000 euros, in plans published today that seek to
identify which employees should be caught by an EU law banning
bonuses greater than twice fixed pay.  The proposals will “significantly widen the category of
employees subject to pay regulation,” Stefan Martin, a lawyer
at Allen & Overy LLP, said in an e-mailed statement. “It will
have a disproportionate effect on London as compared to other
European centers which have smaller numbers of people earning at
this level and will further handicap London’s ability to compete
for talent on the world stage.”  The EU brokered a deal in February to outlaw banker bonuses
that are more than twice fixed pay, a move lawmakers said would
prevent excessive payouts and curb irresponsible risk-taking.
U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  opposed the
curbs, saying they would harm the competitiveness of the
nation’s finance industry.  ‘Risk Profile’  “The banks’ failure to put their own house in order has
resulted in these tough new rules,”  Arlene McCarthy , a U.K.
Labour lawmaker at the European Parliament said last month.  Banks would be able to exclude some employees only if they
could show the workers have “no material impact on the
institution’s risk profile,” the EBA said in an e-mailed
statement from London.  Martin Wheatley, the top U.K. markets regulator, criticized
the cap telling an audience of London financial executives that
it would drive up base salaries and limit regulators’ ability to
“punish poor behavior.”  “I’m not sure it’s a good thing,” Wheatley said
yesterday. The last time U.K. regulators “focused on bonuses,
banks increased the salary of their VPs by 100 percent,” he
said.  Before the latest version of the EBA rules, the U.K. had
1,300 so-called code staff that would have been affected by the
cap,  Andrew Bailey , chief executive officer of the U.K.’s
Prudential Regulation Authority, said on March 13.  The bonus rules, part of an EU law to apply Basel bank
standards in the bloc.  The measures would probably cover “less than 2,000”
bankers, Philippe Lamberts, one of the EU parliament’s lead
lawmakers on the banker bonus rules, said in a phone interview
from Strasbourg,  France . “That is my gut feeling,” Lamberts
said.  “I do not believe that expanding the scope like the EBA
recommends makes any material change to that,” he said. “It’s
much ado about nothing, I think.”  The London-based EBA set a deadline of August 21 for
outside comment on today’s proposals, which must be endorsed by
the European Commission before they can become binding.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in  London  at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  