-- Lew Says IRS Actions Were `Unacceptable and Inexcusable'
-- B y   K a s i a   K l i m a s i n s k a   a n d   I a n   K a t z
-- 2013-05-21T16:42:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/lew-says-irs-actions-were-unacceptable-and-inexcusable-.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew
called IRS screening of  Tea Party  groups unacceptable, saying
the administration of the nation’s tax system should stay free
of political preferences.  “As the inspector general’s report indicates, while this
conduct was not politically motivated, it was unacceptable and
inexcusable,” Lew told the Senate Banking Committee today.
“Administering the  tax code  without any hint of bias is a
solemn obligation that must be carried out with the highest of
standards.”  Four congressional committees and the  Justice Department 
are investigating an inspector general’s findings that the
Internal Revenue Service beginning in 2010 subjected for extra
review anti-tax Tea Party groups and other organizations seeking
tax-exempt status.  President  Barack Obama  forced out the acting IRS
commissioner, and Lew has ordered agency officials to deliver
within 30 days a plan to correct any “systemic” shortcomings.  The scandal erupted May 10 when Lois Lerner, the IRS’s
director of exempt organizations, apologized at a tax conference
for singling out certain groups for further examination of their
tax-exempt applications. The IRS wrote and planted the question
that led to Lerner’s disclosure, Washington lawyer Celia Roady,
who asked the question, said in a statement May 17.  IRS’s Decision  Lew, in response to a question from Idaho Republican  Mike Crapo , the committee’s ranking Republican, said he “would have
advised against” planting the question. “But it was a decision
for the IRS to make.”  Senator  Bob Corker , a Tennessee Republican, called Lew’s
“indignation” over the IRS scandal “kind of laughable.” He
said the Obama administration has demonized Tea Party groups and
may have created a culture that made IRS bureaucrats feel
empowered.  Lew responded that Obama has never done anything “to
condone this kind of behavior” and both he and the president
were “outraged.”  In an interview after he questioned Lew at the hearing,
Senator  Richard Shelby , an Alabama Republican, called for “a
real searching probe” that would determine whether IRS
employees received “some type of a wink or a nod or perhaps
more, from higher-ups.”  The Treasury Department said in a statement May 17 that the
IRS inspector general’s report described “outrageous and
inappropriate conduct by IRS personnel between 2010 and 2012,”
and said the Treasury was unaware of it “during that time
period.”  Lew Transition  Lew took office in February after serving as Obama’s chief
of staff since January 2012.  The department first became aware of the inspector
general’s draft audit findings in March this year, the Treasury
said May 17. The IRS inspector general, Russell George, had a
“short introductory meeting” with Lew on March 15 during which
he told the secretary of the upcoming audit report.  George didn’t describe the audit’s contents and both Lew
and Deputy Treasury Secretary Neal Wolin learned about the
findings when they were reported publicly this month, according
to the Treasury’s statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net ;
Kasia Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  