-- Ex-Billionaire Tinkler Seeking to Sell Australia Mansion
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2013-05-21T07:12:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/ex-billionaire-tinkler-seeking-to-sell-australia-mansion.html
Nathan Tinkler , the former Australian
billionaire who is being sued by creditors over unpaid bills,
has put his seven-bedroom Queensland  mansion up for sale .  The 1,600-square-meter (17,222-square-foot) homestead sits
on 10 acres (4 hectares) of land with horse paddocks and stables
and will go to auction on June 15, according to the website of
broker Brisbane Real Estate, which is marketing the property.
The home is held in the name of Tinkler’s wife Rebecca,
government title records show.  Tinkler last month put up for sale his Patinack Farm
thoroughbred breeding and racing business, including 1,000
racehorses, stallions and broodmares, saying he didn’t have time
to manage the operation. Tinkler, who last year abandoned a
A$5.3 billion ($5.2 billion) bid for  Whitehaven Coal Ltd. (WHC) , is
struggling to meet creditors’ demands, with several of his
companies threatened with liquidation.  Among those suing Tinkler and his wife is BKK Partners Pty,
which advised him on his Whitehaven bid. BKK claimed Tinkler
Group Pty failed to pay A$220,000 for advisory work. A
preliminary hearing is scheduled for tomorrow.  Tinkler, who moved to  Singapore  last year, is seeking
between A$4 million and A$5 million for the property in
Pullenvale, about 15 kilometers (9.3 miles) west of Brisbane’s
city center, the Sydney Morning Herald reported, citing online
sources it didn’t identify. He paid A$5.2 million for the
property in 2007, according to sales records website
 onthehouse.com.au .  Wine Cellar  The homestead includes a 3,500 bottle wine cellar, a
private cinema, gym, beauty salon and tennis court, according to
 Brisbane  Real Estate’s website.  Benjamin Smith, principal at Brisbane Real Estate, didn’t
immediately respond to a telephone call or text message seeking
comment.  Tinkler, an electrician-turned-entrepreneur, was ranked
 Australia ’s youngest billionaire at the age of 35 by BRW
magazine in 2011 after he sold his house in 2006 to help buy the
Middlemount coal lease in Queensland for A$30 million. He sold
the lease a year later to Macarthur Coal Ltd. for about A$465
million in cash and shares.  He testified in court in March that he owns no stocks,
bonds or motor vehicles, with the only asset in his name a farm
that’s valued at about A$700,000. He said then that he’s living
on an allowance he gets from his wife, who controls a A$1.4
billion family trust, with holdings including about 200 million
shares of Whitehaven. The trust has about A$600 million of debt,
he said.  Law Suits  Mirvac Group (MGR)  sued Tinkler companies Ocean Street Holdings
Pty and Buildev Group Pty for failing to complete a land
purchase north of Sydney. The companies settled on Oct. 23 as a
court hearing was due to begin, with Ocean Street and Buildev
agreeing to pay Mirvac A$16.6 million. Tinkler also settled a
A$2 million dispute with contractor  Sedgman Ltd. (SDM) , according to
the Australian Financial Review.  Tinkler lost control of one of his companies, Mulsanne
Resources Pty, in November after failing to pay debt it owed for
shares in coal developer Blackwood Corp.  Australia’s Deputy Commissioner of Taxation applied in
December to liquidate eight Tinkler companies including
Newcastle Jets Football Operations Pty and Newcastle Knights
Pty, Tinkler’s soccer and rugby teams, to recover tax dues.
Tinkler settled those cases.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  