-- Mexico’s 400,000 Abandoned Homes Draw Venture Capital
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   L e v i n
-- 2013-05-21T23:42:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/mexico-s-400-000-abandoned-homes-draw-venture-capital.html
Mexico’s attempt to solve the
country’s housing shortage by constructing millions of new homes
far from city centers has crippled the nation’s  homebuilders  and
fueled record foreclosures. For Antonio Diaz, a former
investment banker with Banco Santander SA, it’s an opportunity.  Diaz’s company, backed by a venture-capital firm whose
funders include JPMorgan Chase & Co. and the Soros Economic
Development Fund, is buying foreclosed homes for as little as 60
percent of face value, refurbishing them and then selling them
for up to 90 percent of a new home price. The number of
properties sold by Tijuana-based Comunidades que Renacen SAPI,
or ProVive, climbed 10-fold to 530 last year, and its target is
to sell 1,300 units in 2013, said Diaz.  For Diaz, 53, it’s an attempt to repopulate towns that face
an exodus and plunging property values after government
subsidized developments sprawled too far from cities and led to
unattended buildings that lured criminals and illegal tenants.
He estimates there are 400,000 deserted homes and another
200,000 held by squatters, even as the economy is projected by
the government to grow 3.1 percent this year.  The number of empty properties “creates a very interesting
universe for doing business,” Diaz said.  Abandoned homes are in part a result of a government policy
that helped back mortgages and provide subsidies for low-income
homes on cheap land sometimes hours outside the nation’s cities.
During the last six-year administration ended in 2012, the
National Workers’ Housing Fund Institute, or Infonavit, gave out
a record 3 million mortgages and housing credits.  Foreclosures Rising  Many residents have now left and repossessions more than
doubled last year to 43,853, according to Infonavit, the state-backed lender responsible for about 70 percent of mortgages in
 Mexico . The government is trying to reverse course on the sprawl
and subsequent home abandonment, shifting subsidies to promote
development of apartments in cities instead of single-family
homes in more remote towns. At the same time, authorities are
seeking ways to improve the environment in the now barren towns
federal money helped spawn.  “The location of homes is going to be the central focus of
the subsidies and housing credits that are handed out,”
Alejandro Nieto, now deputy secretary for urban development and
housing, said in an April 29 interview, days before his official
appointment. In addition to new development, Nieto said, the
government must “come up with a plan that allows developers,
whether they’re the original builders or someone else, to take
back those abandoned homes and improve the environment.”  Property Auctions  Infonavit has been holding auctions of properties from  Baja
California  to Mexico state, which borders the nation’s capital
in the central part of the country, according to documents
distributed to auction participants.  An invitation to an April 2 auction of homes in Tamaulipas
state, which borders  Texas , advertised blocks of 50 to 500 homes
and welcomed Mexicans with the “legal, technical and financial
capacity” to take part in the bidding. The series of auctions
is called the “Program for Improving and Moving” recovered
real estate, the release said.  Diaz has so far focused on Tijuana and nearby Mexicali
after starting ProVive’s operations in 2010 with the sale of six
homes. The company, backed by Monterrey, Mexico-based venture
capital firm Ignia, which in turn has limited partners including
the Rockefeller Foundation and the World Bank’s International
Finance Corporation, plans to expand to other regions.  Sales Fall  The company’s holdings include housing constructed by Urbi
Desarrrollos Urbanos SAB, Corp.  Geo (GEOB)  SAB and Desarrolladora Homex
SAB, the nation’s three biggest builders.  Sales fell for all of the nation’s top three homebuilders
in the first quarter as cash balances plummeted. The companies
have struggled to adapt to the government’s new development
plans. Geo, Mexico’s largest builder by volume of houses sold,
said April 25 that its sales numbers contracted by 48 percent in
the first quarter to 7,086 homes. Geo and Urbi have both
defaulted and are considering restructuring debt. Homex has sold
assets to shore up dwindling cash reserves.  The Mexico Habita Index of six homebuilders has plummeted
57 percent this year, led by a 77 percent drop for Urbi and a 67
percent retreat for Geo. It lost 1.6 percent today. Urbi’s cash
and equivalents fell 95 percent in the first three months of the
year, while Homex’s cash tumbled 94 percent and Geo’s cash
balance fell 85 percent.  ‘New Player’  Bond prices have also been retreating, even as President
Enrique Pena Nieto projects a housing deficit of 9 million
homes, taking into account future  population growth  and those
that already have a home with substandard conditions.  Homex, the only company of the top three to have avoided
defaulting on a bond payment this year, had its securities fall
to a record low 39.41 cents on the dollar yesterday.  The increased flow of foreclosed homes “is practically
equal to having a new player in the market,” Jose Luis Romero
Hicks, a housing analyst at research firm Romero Hicks &
Galindo, said in a telephone interview Mexico City. “If the
idea is to revitalize a neighborhood, it seems like a good
contribution to the market, because it gives added-value to the
other homes that are already there.”  While the goal of revitalizing neighborhoods will have
benefits for some, Grupo Financiero Banorte SAB analyst  Carlos Hermosillo  said home sales are likely to prove impossible in
some developments plagued by crime and insufficient services,
unless steep discounts are offered.  Better Locations  “It’s not an easy task,” Hermosillo said in a telephone
interview from Mexico City. “Developments hit hard by difficult
circumstances, developments dealing with violent crime for
instance, are going to have to offer much lower prices. Everyone
is going to be looking for better locations, where you have a
proven demand.”  ProVive’s Diaz said focusing on location is key to the
company’s strategy.  “We sell well-located homes, because they’re in
developments that were built five to eight years ago,” he said.
“When they were built they were somewhat far, but now they’re
well equipped, with transportation available and places of
employment close by.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net 
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  