-- Exxon Refocusing Algae Biofuels Program After $100 Million Spend
-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 2013-05-21T03:07:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/exxon-refocusing-algae-biofuels-program-after-100-million-spend.html
Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , which has invested
more than $100 million to develop algae-derived biofuels, is
refocusing its research with Synthetic Genomics Inc. after
almost four years of work failed to produce economically viable
results.  Exxon, the world’s biggest maker of gasoline and diesel,
and Synthetic Genomics “have gained significant understanding
of the challenges that must be overcome to deliver scalable
algae-based biofuels,” Exxon spokesman Charles Engelmann said
yesterday by e-mail. The company, based in Irving,  Texas , began
the program in 2009 and said it would invest $600 million to
develop fuels within a decade. It has already spent more than
$100 million, Engelmann said.  Exxon and Synthetic Genomics have been exploring algae as a
source of oil that could be converted in existing refineries to
conventional transportation fuels such as gasoline, diesel and
jet fuel. Algae cells produce lipids, or oils, as they grow that
can be harvested to make fuels. The companies have collected
thousands of wild algae strains that thrive on sunlight and
carbon dioxide and optimized them for oil production using
biotechnology in the lab, though that work has had limitations,
said Synthetic Genomics’ Chief Technology Officer James Flatt.  Results since 2009 have indicated that “simple
modifications of natural algae would not provide a level of
performance that we believed would be economical or viable for a
commercial solution,” Flatt said yesterday by telephone.  The companies currently are placing greater emphasis on
“basic science” to develop algae strains that can reproduce
quickly, yield large concentrations of oils and survive in
varying conditions, Synthetic Genomics said May 16. The next
phase of research will include “more comprehensive changes to
algae metabolism so that they can realize economical levels of
oil production,” Flatt said.  ‘Synthetic Cell’  Synthetic Genomics has narrowed down more than 20,000 algae
strains in nature to less than 10 that “we think have the best
potential,” and it will alter their genetic makeup using the
discoveries of its pioneering co-founder, J. Craig Venter, he
said. Venter’s nonprofit institute in May 2010 announced that it
had copied a bacterium’s entire genome and transplanted it into
a related organism, where it functioned normally, becoming the
first life form created entirely with man-made DNA.  Synthetic Genomics can “apply much of what we’ve learned
in developing the synthetic cell to making similar types of
changes to algae,” Flatt said. That differs from changing only
one or two genes at a time, and the “large pieces of DNA” that
are added will program the cells to maximize oil production, he
said. “The ultimate benefit of all that is to speed up the
process.”  Exxon Chief Executive Officer  Rex Tillerson  said March 7 on
PBS television’s “Charlie Rose” show that its investments in
algae biofuels may not succeed for at least another 25 years.
Engelmann reiterated similar expectations yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  