-- Fannie Mae Said to Sell Boom-Era CMBS to Reduce Holdings
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2013-05-21T21:32:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/fannie-mae-said-to-plan-2-billion-cmbs-offering-to-cut-holdings.html
Fannie Mae plans to sell $2 billion
of commercial-mortgage bonds issued before the credit market
seizure as it seeks to reduce holdings of illiquid assets,
according to three people familiar with the offering.  The government-controlled loan financier, which has
returned to profitability after being taken over by U.S.
regulators in 2008, is offering securities linked to apartment
complexes and issued in 2006 and 2007, said the people, who
asked not to be identified because terms aren’t public. The
Washington-based lender may follow up with similar offerings in
the next several months, the people said.  Demand for bonds backed by loans on commercial-properties
from offices to hotels to strip malls is surging, sending values
on the debt up by as much as 25 percent since December,
according to Deutsche Bank AG. Executives at Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac were given a goal in March of selling off at least 5
percent of illiquid holdings this year as the  Federal Housing
Finance Agency  seeks to make the firms smaller.  Andrew Wilson, a spokesman for Fannie Mae, said the company
is working with the Federal Housing Finance Agency to meet
conservatorship scorecard goals for this year.  Issuance Climbs  Sales of newly issued bonds tied to commercial mortgages
are climbing, with sales poised to increase by more than 50
percent to $70 billion in 2013, according to Credit Suisse Group
AG. Fannie Mae’s offering coincides with a transaction of about
$1.2 billion from Wells Fargo & Co. and Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Fannie Mae reported a record quarterly profit of $8.1
billion last quarter as rising home prices boosted earnings. The
lender is set to send $59.4 billion to the Treasury Department,
bringing total payments to $95 billion. The company received
$117 billion of taxpayer-funded capital infusions as losses on
soured residential mortgages threatened to topple Fannie Mae and
competitor Freddie Mac.  Freddie Mac, based in McLean,  Virginia  is starting to sell
home-loan bonds without government backing to “take advantage
of the strong improvement in bond prices,” and shrink its
balance sheet to meet goals set by regulators, Tom Fitzgerald, a
spokesman for Freddie Mac, said in a May 9 interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in  New York  at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  