-- FCC Bolstered, ISDAfix E-Mails, Swedish Banks: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-05-21T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/fcc-bolstered-isdafix-e-mails-swedish-banks-compliance.html
The U.S. Supreme Court bolstered the
authority of federal administrative agencies, upholding Federal
Communications Commission deadlines for local zoning authorities
considering applications for new wireless facilities.  The high court, voting 6-3, said yesterday it would defer
to the FCC’s interpretation of a federal law that sets the
boundaries of the agency’s authority.  Although courts normally defer to the expertise of
administrative agencies when they interpret ambiguous statutes,
opponents of the FCC deadlines said that principle shouldn’t
apply when an agency is determining its own jurisdiction.  The ruling drew a dissent from three justices who are often
Scalia’s allies on questions of federal power -- Chief Justice
John Roberts and Justices Samuel Alito and  Anthony Kennedy .  Roberts called his disagreement “fundamental,” saying
judges shouldn’t defer to regulators’ interpretation of a law
until a court determines that the agency had jurisdiction in the
first place.  Justices  Clarence Thomas ,  Ruth Bader Ginsburg ,  Stephen
Breyer ,  Sonia Sotomayor  and  Elena Kagan  joined Scalia in the
majority.  The dispute centered on a provision in the 1996
Telecommunications Act that gives the FCC power to “prescribe
such rules and regulations as may be necessary in the public
interest to carry out” the law.  The FCC was battling the Texas cities of Arlington and San
Antonio, which objected to a 2009 agency ruling that said local
zoning authorities had to act within a “reasonable period of
time” on applications for new wireless towers and antennas.  The case of Arlington v. FCC, 11-1545, U.S. Supreme Court
(Washington).  Compliance Policy  Swedish Banks Get No Mercy as EU Capital Agenda Ignored  Swedish Finance  Minister  Anders Borg  said he won’t cave to
pressure from banks or the European Union to harmonize standards
and insists capital ratios in the largest Nordic economy need to
be higher than those elsewhere.  Some of Sweden’s biggest banks have argued the government’s
approach is hurting their ability to lend. Without harmonized
capital rules, banks will suffer competitive distortions,  Nordea
Bank AB (NDA)  Chief Executive Officer  Christian Clausen  has repeatedly
warned. Clausen, who is also president of the  European Banking
Federation , said in February lenders need “one rule book.”  Yet Borg’s tougher stance is supported by debt markets,
which have rewarded Sweden’s banks with some of Europe’s lowest
funding costs and default risks.  Sweden’s four biggest banks need to hold at least 10
percent core Tier 1 capital of their risk-weighted assets this
year, and no less than 12 percent by 2015. That compares with
Basel III’s 7 percent requirement by 2019 and a 9 percent
minimum standard for some European banks.  Financial Markets Minister Peter Norman, who oversees
banks, argues harmonized capital rules make no sense because
each country has its own financial risks to deal with.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  CFTC Said to Review 1 Million E-Mails in ISDAfix Investigation  Commodity Futures Trading Commission investigators are
poring over one million e-mails and instant messages as part of
their price-manipulation probe of a swaps benchmark that helps
determine interest rates on everything from annuities to bonds
linked to skyscrapers.  Investigators preparing to interview bankers and brokers in
the coming weeks are scouring the records collected under
subpoena for any evidence that the world’s largest banks and
ICAP Plc brokers rigged the ISDAfix swaps rate, said a person
familiar with the matter, who asked not to be named because the
probe is private. ICAP Chief Executive Officer Michael Spencer
said last week that the company’s investigations have turned up
no wrongdoing.  Steve Adamske , a CFTC spokesman, declined to comment, as
did Guy Taylor of ICAP.  The CFTC issued subpoenas to current and former ICAP
brokers, as many as 15 Wall Street dealers and to ISDA,
Bloomberg News first reported April 8, citing people familiar
with the matter. The U.K. Financial Conduct Authority also
started an inquiry into how the benchmark swaps prices are set
in British pounds, Bloomberg reported two weeks later, citing
people familiar with that review.  Companies and money managers in the $379 trillion swaps
market rely on the ISDAfix benchmarks to value their trades.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
ICAP in some businesses, including foreign exchange trading.  Sweden Yield Little Affected By Discount Curve Plan, Danske Says  The Swedish financial watchdog’s proposal for a new
Solvency II-based discount rate curve will have “limited
effect” on Swedish bond yields in the short-term,  Danske Bank
A/S (DANSKE)  said in a client note yesterday.  In the long-term, the new curve would improve the situation
for life insurance and pension companies from a regulatory
perspective since the hedge ratio is set to rise to 60 percent
from 35 percent, according to Danske Bank.  The curve is set to diminish fire sales of equities and
flows into bonds in times of crisis and unsettled markets, the
bank said. In such a market environment, Swedish bonds with long
maturities may not be bought as aggressively as has been the
case in recent years, according to Danske Bank.  The Swedish FSA said yesterday that its proposal will now
be submitted for consultation. The new curve is set to be
implemented next year.  Senators Question CFTC on Oversight of Energy Swap Markets  Democratic senators from the U.S. West Coast asked the U.S.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission whether proposed rules
exempting energy traders from regulation will undermine the
Dodd-Frank Act and hinder oversight of energy markets, according
to a statement on the website of Senator  Dianne Feinstein  of
California.  “We are concerned that CFTC is failing to bring energy
swap dealers under its oversight, which limits CFTC’s ability to
monitor for manipulation, excessive speculation and systemic
risk in energy markets,” according to a letter to agency
Chairman  Gary Gensler  from the senators.  They asked the CFTC in the letter to “closely analyze”
the matter.  The letter was sent by Feinstein, with Senators Barbara
Boxer of California, Ron Wyden and Jeff Merkley of Oregon, and
Patty Murray and Maria Cantwell, who are both from Washington.  Lack of Sukuk, Funds Stunts Private Banking Growth for Muslims  Islamic private banking services catering to Muslim
millionaires are insufficient to meet demand because of a dearth
of sukuk and fund products, according to  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) 
and  CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. (CIMB)   Shariah-compliant plans are too small for the wealthy to
create a diversified pool of investments and maximize returns,
Wasim Saifi, Standard Chartered Bank’s global head of Islamic
consumer banking, said in a May 13 interview. Indonesia’s
 Manulife Link Dana Pasar Uang Syariah (MLLDPUS) , the biggest sukuk fund,
had $91.5 million of assets in January, compared with $2.04
trillion for Pacific Investment Management Co., manager of the
world’s largest fixed-income fund based in the U.S.  Safa Investment Services, a Geneva-based Islamic asset
management company, estimates there’s more than $1 trillion of
cash from Muslim millionaires that’s largely going into
conventional products in bonds and commodities. Sukuk sales
reached $15 billion this year, compared with global corporate
debt issuance of $1.7 trillion. Only four real-estate investment
trusts compliant with Koranic principles have started since the
first one began in Malaysia in 2006.  CIMB in  Kuala Lumpur  has delayed plans to roll out more
Shariah-compliant products for clients who reach minimum
investment requirements. Standard Chartered will begin offering
private banking products that comply with Muslim tenets in
Singapore over the next 12 months.  For more, click here.  Courts  Wal-Mart Must Turn Over More Bribery Files, Judge Concludes  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  officials must turn over more internal
files on what directors knew about claims that executives handed
out bribes to facilitate Mexican real-estate deals, a judge
ruled.  The world’s largest retailer must provide documents about
how officials set up the investigation of the Mexican bribery
allegations and some files the company argued were covered by
the attorney-client privilege, Delaware Chancery Court Judge Leo
Strine ruled yesterday in Wilmington. Investors are seeking the
files as part of suits over claims that Wal-Mart directors
didn’t properly oversee company operations.  U.S. and Mexican prosecutors said last year they are
investigating the bribery allegations, first reported by the New
York Times. The newspaper  said  an executive of Wal-Mart’s
Mexican unit alerted company officials in 2005 about bribes paid
to facilitate construction of new stores and warehouses.  “There’s no evidence whatsoever to support a claim of a
cover-up,” Stephen Norman, one of the company’s lawyers, told
Strine.  The case is Indiana Electrical Workers Pension Trust Fund
IBEW v. Wal-Mart Stores Inc., 7779-CS, Delaware Chancery Court
(Wilmington).  Interviews  Levitt Says SAC’s Cohen Will Refuse to Answer Questions  Arthur Levitt , former chairman of the Securities and
Exchange Commission, says SAC Capital Advisors’s Steven Cohen
will invoke his Fifth Amendment right against self-incrimination
when he appears before a grand jury investigating insider
trading practices. Levitt talked with Bloomberg’s Tom Keene and
Michael McKee on Bloomberg Radio’s “Bloomberg Surveillance.”  For the audio, click here.  Comings and Goings  Sifma Names Gregg CEO to Help Mend Wall Street-Washington Divide  Judd Gregg, the former U.S. senator who has been an adviser
to  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , has been named chief executive
officer of the  Securities and Financial Markets Association ,
Wall Street’s largest lobby group.  The selection of Gregg, 66, a New Hampshire Republican who
left the Senate in 2011, was announced by Sifma in a statement
yesterday.  The Sifma job is one of Washington’s highest-paid lobbying
positions. Ryan earned $3 million in compensation and benefits
in 2011, according to the trade group’s most recent tax filing.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 