-- Fed’s Bullard Says ECB Needs ‘Aggressive’ QE to Avoid Japan Fate
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2013-05-21T19:39:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/fed-s-bullard-says-ecb-needs-aggressive-qe-to-avoid-japan-fate.html
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis
President  James Bullard  said Europe risks an extended period of
low growth and deflation like  Japan ’s unless the  European
Central Bank  acts with an aggressive quantitative easing
program.  “You should worry about it, and then take policy action to
avoid it,” Bullard said in Frankfurt today in response to an
audience question after a speech. “You want to be pretty sure
that you don’t get stuck in that situation, and one way to get
stuck would be to be passive in this situation and not take some
aggressive action to try to get  inflation  back.”  While the ECB has lent banks unlimited funds for up to
three years and pledged to buy bonds of countries engaged in
economic adjustment plans, policy makers have shied away from
committing to bond buying known as quantitative easing. Bullard,
who votes on the  Federal Open Market Committee  this year, and
his colleagues in the U.S. are buying $85 billion in Treasuries
and mortgage-backed securities a month to spur growth.  “The lesson in Japan is once you get stuck there, it’s
pretty hard to get out,” Bullard said today at the Institute
for Monetary and Financial Stability. “They’re trying very hard
right now and so maybe they’ll be successful but this time
around we’ll see. But it’s been very hard to get out.”  Speaking in the ECB’s home town, Bullard said the central
bank’s governing council may want to consider a quantitative
easing program that’s weighted to account for gross domestic
product differences in the 17-member euro area.  Extending Recession  The euro-area economy shrank more than economists forecast
in the three months through March, extending a recession to a
record sixth quarter. GDP fell 0.2 percent after a 0.6 percent
decline in the previous quarter, the European Union’s statistics
office in Luxembourg said on May 15. The annual inflation rate
dipped to 1.2 percent in April, the lowest since February 2010.
The ECB aims at inflation just under 2 percent.  Bank of Japan  Governor Haruhiko Kuroda said April 4 he
would double the purchases of  government bonds  to more than 7
trillion yen ($68.3 billion) a month to achieve 2 percent
inflation in two years. Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s government
announced 10.3 trillion yen in extra spending in January to
stimulate an economy that shrank for two quarters last year.  15 Years  “They just stayed at zero for 15 years thinking that
eventually they would come out of that equilibrium and it never
happened, so now they’re having to take more extreme measures,”
Bullard said today of  interest rates  in the world’s third-largest economy, which fell behind China in 2010.  Bullard said in his prepared remarks that the Fed should
continue its bond buying because it’s the best available option
for policy makers to boost growth that is slower than expected.  The purchases known as quantitative easing should be
maintained in the U.S. because financial markets indicate that
they are improving financial conditions and can be adjusted
based on how the economy changes, Bullard said today.  “Quantitative easing is closest to standard monetary
policy, involves clear action and has been effective,” Bullard
said. The panel should continue the program while “adjusting
the rate of purchases appropriately in view of incoming data on
both real economic performance and inflation.”  Fed officials are debating how and when to eventually
curtail the purchases that have expanded the central bank’s
balance sheet to a record  $3.35 trillion . The FOMC said May 1 it
will keep buying $85 billion in Treasuries and mortgage bonds
per month to boost employment and spur the economy.  Bullard, 52, joined the St. Louis Fed’s research department
in 1990 and became president of the regional bank in 2008. His
district includes  Arkansas  and parts of Illinois,  Indiana ,
 Kentucky ,  Mississippi ,  Missouri  and Tennessee.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Black in  Frankfurt  at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  