-- Finra Considering Rule to Require More Dark Pool Data Disclosure
-- B y   D a v e   M i c h a e l s
-- 2013-05-21T22:58:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/finra-considering-rule-to-require-more-dark-pool-data-disclosure.html
A Wall Street regulator is
considering new rules to shine light on dark trading after the
largest U.S. dark pool operator stopped sharing data on the
volume of its trades.  The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, the private-sector regulator of U.S. brokerages, may ask brokers to
distinguish trades that occur in dark pools from ones that
don’t, Finra chief executive officer Richard G. Ketchum told
reporters today. Doing so would enable Finra to publish figures
for how much trading occurs in every dark pool.  “That is an area we think raises some issues where we can,
in a relatively non-burdensome way, shed some light into that
area,” Ketchum said at a Finra conference in  Washington .  Ketchum’s comments come as exchanges have asked the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission to consider curbs on trading
outside of public markets. U.S. off-exchange volume reached 36.2
percent of all trading in the first quarter, up from 32.8
percent last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Estimates of trading in dark pools, which don’t publish
bids and offers, are published monthly by research firm Tabb
Group LLC and institutional broker Rosenblatt Securities Inc.
Last month,  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , operator of the largest U.S.
dark pool, said it would stop providing data to Tabb and
Rosenblatt, which Ketchum noted in his comments.  Tabb and Rosenblatt receive trading data from more than a
dozen operators of dark pools and use it to estimate total
trading volume in the private venues. Rosenblatt reported last
month that dark pools executed 14.7 percent of total U.S. equity
volume in March.  Identifying Trades  Under current reporting rules, Finra can’t with certainty
break out trades that happen in a particular dark pool. That’s
because brokers that operate dark pools use a single identifier
for all activity.  Finra would have to propose and implement a new rule to
require brokers to assign a separate identifier to indicate
trades filled in dark pools. Such a rule would have to be
approved by the SEC, which oversees Finra and other self-regulatory bodies.  Separately, Finra could require brokers that operate dark
pools to report trading volume to the regulator.  “It sounds to me like Finra was happy to have it be
voluntary,” said  Adam Sussman , a partner at Tabb Group. “And
now that people aren’t volunteering, they may do it by force.”  The timing of reporting would matter to investors who use
dark pools, Sussman said. Large investors use dark pools to
trade without moving prices and would be wary of real-time
reporting that could reveal their activity to other traders,
Sussman said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dave Michaels in Washington at 
 dmichaels5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  