-- Former Soros COO Zuaiter Says Consumers to Spur Emerging Markets
-- B y   R o b e r t   T u t t l e
-- 2013-05-21T15:04:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/former-soros-coo-zuaiter-says-consumers-to-spur-emerging-markets.html
Nestle SA (NESN) ,  General Electric Co (GE)  and
 Berkshire Hathaway Inc (BRK/A)  are among firms poised to benefit from a
consumer-lead “revival” in emerging markets, said Abbas Zuaiter, co-founder of Zuaiter Capital Holdings and former chief
operating officer of  George Soros ’s family office.  “There is a real vibrant middle class in countries like
Brazil, in countries like India, in countries like China --there
was real wealth that was created,” Zuaiter, 45, said today at a
conference in Doha, Qatar. “The combination should lead a
consumer-led, rather than investment-led resurgence.”  Excess capacity has reduced demand for commodities in some
emerging markets such as China, Zuaiter said. Credit isn’t as
available as it used to be because banks are focused more on
their home countries than interbank trade, he said.  Investors should focus on companies that provide consumer
goods, health care, agriculture and financial services and avoid
commodities and manufacturing, he said.  Nestle, General Electric,  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  and
Berkshire Hathaway “all have significant EM exposure,” Zuaiter
said. “Owning a developed stock with significant EM exposure is
a good way to invest in emerging markets today.”  Zuaiter said he is “very much negative” on the so-called
BRICS countries: Brazil, Russia, India, China and  South Africa .
An exception would be India, he said.  “I think India is an exception to the rule,” he said.
“Seventy five percent of Indian GDP is the Indian consumer, and
if the Indians can control inflation -- I think they are working
very hard at it -- I think you could have a resurgence of the
bull market in India.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Tuttle in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  