-- Ex-Deutsche Bank Commodity Head Joined by Team at TrailStone
-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2013-05-21T17:29:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/former-deutsche-bank-commodities-head-silbert-starts-new-company.html
Former Deutsche Bank AG executives
led by commodities chief David Silbert started an energy and
metals company backed by private-equity energy firm Riverstone
Holdings LLC that may have as many as 125 staff in three years.  Partners in TrailStone include Bill Gebhardt, Deutsche
bank’s former head of European power and gas, Troy Martin,
former chief operating officer for commodities, Raymond Key,
head of metals trading, and John Redpath, head of oil and
agriculture trading, Silbert, who is a managing partner, said in
a phone interview today. They will have the same roles at
TrailStone, and Key will be in charge of metals and mining, he
said.  “The time is perfect,” Silbert said. “We are going
through a short cyclical downturn in commodities. The demand for
commodities is growing and will continue to grow. The banks
won’t play the same role they played traditionally.”  Banks are overhauling their raw materials units as
regulators push lenders to raise  capital requirements  and curb
proprietary trading. Commodities revenue at the 10 largest banks
dropped 54 percent in the first quarter from a year earlier amid
lower client activity and the changes to lenders’ units,
analytics company Coalition said May 15.  New York-based Riverstone committed $500 million to
TrailStone and is the majority investor, said Silbert. The
company plans to raise as much as $1 billion, he said.
TrailStone has offices in London and Austin,  Texas , and will
open an office in Sydney, where Key will work, Silbert said. It
will have 35 to 50 front-office staff in 12 to 18 months, and
between 100 and 125 staff in three years, he said.  Miners, Power  TrailStone will buy stakes in miners and power and gas
companies or provide financing for offtake agreements, Silbert
said. Junior mining companies are “really struggling to find
capital” and the company will focus on precious metals and
copper, he said. It will focus on  North America  and  Europe  in
power and gas, and may get involved in agriculture at a later
date, he said.  Banks including Citigroup Inc. and Deutsche Bank have
called an end to the so-called commodities supercycle that saw
prices rise almost fourfold in the previous decade. The Standard
& Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 raw materials fell 2.2 percent this
year.  The “cyclical downturn” may last 12 to 18 months and
assets are cheap, making it a perfect time to buy, Silbert said.
TrailStone will “capitalize on cheap assets, on good physical
logistics and being able to provide capital to people who need
it,” he said.  Silbert’s departure was reported in December and Deutsche
Bank named Louise Kitchen and Richard Jefferson co-heads of
commodities in January. TrailStone is registered in  London  and
was incorporated May 2, data from the U.K.’s Companies House
show. Riverstone declined to comment on the investment. Deutsche
Bank spokesman Nick Bone declined to comment on departures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  