-- Freeport Death Toll Reaches 28 as Indonesia Reviews Mines
-- B y   M a d e l e n e   P e a r s o n   a n d   Y o g a   R u s m a n a
-- 2013-05-21T10:58:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/freeport-death-toll-rises-to-21-as-indonesia-reviews-all-mines.html
The death toll from a collapsed
tunnel at  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc.’s (FCX)  Grasberg complex
reached 28 as Indonesia said it would review all mining
operations following one of its worst mining accidents.  The rescue team recovered the remaining bodies that were
buried at the accident site of the world’s second-largest copper
mine, Thamrin Sihite, director general of coal and minerals at
the Energy and Mineral Resources Ministry, told reporters today
in Jakarta. Operations at the mine in Mimika, Papua province,
about 3,120 kilometers (1,940 miles) east of Jakarta, will
remain suspended until after an investigation is concluded, the
government said.  President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono  ordered related
ministries to review safety at all mines in Indonesia, Sihite
said earlier. Phoenix, Arizona-based Freeport, which got 20
percent of its  operating income  from Indonesia last year, was
still shipping material produced from the mine as of May 17, its
local unit said last week.  Ten workers have been rescued from the site, Freeport said
today.  The “Freeport accident is one of the worst mining
accidents in Indonesia,” Sihite told reporters in Jakarta today.
“I don’t want this to happen again.”  The death toll compares with 31 from a blast at a  coal mine 
in Indonesia’s West Sumatra province in June 2009. Freeport
Indonesia had no update on shipments, Daisy Primayanti, vice
president of corporate communications, said today.  CEO Arrives  Freeport Chief Executive Officer Richard Adkerson, who
arrived in  Indonesia  on May 18, has been visiting injured
workers along with Freeport Indonesia President Director Rozik B. Soetjipto.  “I am deeply saddened and disturbed by this event,”
Adkerson said in a statement yesterday. “Our focus continues to
be continuing efforts to gain access to the victims still buried
at the accident, carried out as quickly as can be done safely.”  Indonesia generated $1.3 billion in operating income for
Freeport last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Freeport owns 91 percent of the mine, which also produces gold,
and Indonesia’s government holds the rest, according to the
company’s website.  A government team has started an investigation into the
accident, studying geological data, structure and maps, Sihite
said. Once the evacuation process is finished, the team will
check the site to determine the cause of the accident, he said.  “Grasberg mine operations including milling will be
stopped until the investigation is concluded and Freeport has
agreed to this,” Sihite said. The halt applies to underground
and open-pit mining, he said. “Only maintenance works are
allowed. We will investigate all operations.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Madelene Pearson in Singapore at 
 mpearson1@bloomberg.net ;
Yoga Rusmana in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  