-- Gensler’s Recusal Criticized in CFTC Watchdog’s MF Global Report
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2013-05-22T14:31:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/gensler-recusal-faulted-in-cftc-watchdog-s-mf-global-report-1-.html
Chairman  Gary Gensler ’s recusal from
the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s investigation
into the collapse of  MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ)  was unnecessary and
wasn’t required by ethics rules, according to the agency’s
internal watchdog.  Gensler decided not to participate after the brokerage
filed for bankruptcy in October 2011 even after spending days
leading up to the collapse monitoring the situation including
through personal e-mail, the inspector general said in a report
released in Washington yesterday.  Gensler didn’t seek guidance from ethics officials for two
days after collapse, during which he discussed the matter in at
least two closed meetings with other commissioners, according to
CFTC Inspector General A. Roy Lavik.  The decision to recuse himself following the bankruptcy
“was not the most desirable course,” Lavik said in the report.
“It is the extent of his participation prior to requesting
advice that is troubling.”  The inspector general’s report follows the Oct. 31, 2011,
bankruptcy of MF Global and an initial shortfall of $1.6 billion
in client funds. The CFTC,  Federal Bureau of Investigation  and
other agencies have analyzed events leading to the bankruptcy.
No criminal or civil charges have been brought and customers
will recover more than 90 percent of the missing funds.  Two Meetings  In the week before MF Global collapsed, Gensler was in
contact with MF Global executives as well as with the  CME Group (CME) 
Inc., Securities and Exchange Commission and  Federal Reserve
Bank of New York . Once the firm collapsed, Gensler led a closed
emergency meeting to update the agency’s other four
commissioners, according to the report. Gensler led a second
closed meeting on Nov. 2 to discuss the situation.  “At no point did the chairman, in any closed meeting, e-mail, or otherwise, state that he believed he might be a
distraction to the commission’s work,” the report said.  On Nov. 3, Gensler asked for guidance from the commission’s
general counsel about whether he should participate in the
investigation. He decided the same day as well to recuse himself
from the probe despite advice that recusal wasn’t necessary. In
a Nov. 8 statement, Gensler said that he didn’t want “my
participation to be in any way a distraction in this important
matter.”  Corzine Relationship  Jon Corzine , who was MF Global’s chairman and CEO when it
collapsed, worked with Gensler at  Goldman Sachs (GS)  Group Inc. and
during his term in the  U.S. Senate , where Gensler served as an
aide.  Steve Adamske , CFTC spokesman, declined to comment on the
report.  “The report does not uncover a defensible explanation for
Chairman Gensler’s capricious behavior,” Senator  Richard Shelby , the Alabama Republican who sought the report, said in an
e-mail statement today. “I therefore continue to question
whether Chairman Gensler was more concerned with protecting
customers’ accounts or protecting himself from accountability.”  During the weekend before the company collapsed, Gensler
exclusively used his personal e-mail account to communicate
about the company. Gensler used personal e-mail consistently
since he arrived at the agency in 2009 to schedule meetings and
have conversations about the agency’s official business.  CFTC policy instructs employees not to e-mail or forward
sensitive documents to a personal e-mail address or personal
device, according to the report. There were 7,005 instances of
Gensler using personal e-mail related to MF Global, a tally that
includes duplicates and e-mail chains, the report said.  Nothing ‘Corrupt’  “In reviewing hundreds of e-mail messages using the
chairman’s personal e-mail address, we found nothing that
appeared corrupt, and he has since ceased this practice,” Lavik
said in the report.  The report comes as trustees overseeing the bankruptcy
process seek to return funds to clients and narrow the initial
$1.6 billion shortfall. Customers of the MF Global brokerage
will probably receive at least 93 percent of their money,
according to a March estimate by James Giddens, the trustee
overseeing the company’s liquidation.  Louis J. Freeh, a trustee for the failed holding company,
alleged in a lawsuit in April that Corzine, the former head of
the company, implemented strategies that caused the company to
fail. Corzine, a former governor and senator from  New Jersey  and
once a co-chairman of Goldman Sachs was sued along with senior
executives Bradley Abelow and Henri Steenkamp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in  Washington  at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  