-- German Anti-Euro Party Sees Answer to Europe’s Woes in Mass Exit
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n   a n d   D a v i d   T w e e d
-- 2013-05-21T22:00:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/german-anti-euro-party-sees-answer-to-europe-s-woes-in-mass-exit.html
The euro lies at the root of  Europe ’s
record unemployment rate and countries such as Spain and  Greece 
should quit the common currency to return to economic health,
said the head of Germany’s fledgling anti-euro party.  Southern European countries can’t cope with the competitive
pressure exerted by the euro and are suffering because they
can’t devalue the 17-nation single currency, Bernd Lucke, the
Alternative for Germany party’s leader, said May 16 in a
Bloomberg Television interview in Berlin.  “Greece should be the first country to exit the euro along
with small countries like Cyprus and Slovenia,” Lucke said. “I
would propose that Germany stays in the euro, that a return to a
national currency in Germany might at best be the end of the
process” of dissolving the currency area.  Four months to the day before German federal elections,
Lucke’s unorthodox message risks undermining Merkel’s bid for a
third term. While polls suggest broad public backing for the
euro and for the chancellor’s “step by step” approach to
tackling the debt crisis, they also show voter patience has run
out with Germany’s role as the biggest contributor to euro-area
bailouts since aid for Greece was first agreed three years ago.  The AfD, as the party is known in German, has attracted
more than 10,000 members since it was founded a month ago and is
 polling  2 percent to 3.5 percent support. While that’s below the
5 percent threshold to win seats in parliament, the party may
yet sap “vital support” from Merkel’s coalition in the Sept.
22 election, political analyst Jan F. Kallmorgen said in a May 2
Bloomberg View article.  Support Spectrum  Lucke, 50, an economics professor at Hamburg University who
was a member of Merkel’s  Christian Democratic Union  for 33
years, rejects that he is putting her coalition at risk. The AfD
draws support “from basically everywhere in the population,
from people who are more on the conservative side as well as
from people from the Social Democratic or the Green parties,”
he said.  Lucke also denies that agitating for the euro’s breakup
would cause renewed turmoil on financial markets. He foresees
“a careful, graduated exit” whereby countries would introduce
national currencies parallel to the euro, then gradually devalue
to address “competitiveness problems slowly over many years.”  Germany’s Loss  Germany’s economy would grow half a percentage point less
each year if it didn’t have the euro, Bertelsmann Foundation
said April 29,  citing a study  it commissioned from Prognos AG.
That would cost 200,000 jobs and leave workers with 1,100 euros
($1,415) less per year to spend on average, Bertelsmann said.  “A return to the deutsche mark would do considerable
economic damage” even if some of the loans to troubled southern
euro members would have to be written off, Aart de Geus, the
chief of the Bertelsmann Foundation, said. “Germans would lose
income and jobs.”  Lucke has said that Germany would lose as much as 30
billion euros in an orderly insolvency and debt restructuring
for Greece alone, according to an interview with Handelsblatt
newspaper published May 16. Realizing these costs now is still
better than waiting for bigger countries such as Spain, Italy or
 France  to tap the European Stability Mechanism fund, he said.  Lucke, who decided to quit the CDU to form his own party
when the forerunner of the ESM was established in May 2010, said
the ESM will eventually turn into a mechanism “that operates
like a Eurobond.” That means debt sharing, for all Merkel’s
government’s assurances to the contrary, he said.  He advocates a return to the deutsche mark if a shrunken
euro region without southern members can’t agree on enforceable
rules that make bailouts illegal. France, Germany’s most
important European partner, would be welcome to keep the euro if
it can live with such an arrangement, he said.  “There would be benefits for countries coming out of the
euro because their economies would be stimulated by the fact
they can devalue,” Lucke said. All the same, there will
“absolutely” be costs for  Germany  from debt restructuring
“because we have guaranteed for the debts of these countries.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net ;
David Tweed in Berlin at 
 dtweed@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  