-- Bund Yields Rise to 9-Week High as Bundesbank Sees Faster Growth
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2013-05-21T15:43:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/german-government-bonds-little-changed-as-producer-prices-slow.html
German  government bonds  fell, pushing
10-year yields to the highest level in nine weeks, after the
 Bundesbank  said the economy will improve “markedly” this
quarter, damping demand for the region’s safest securities.  Austrian, French and Dutch bonds also declined before
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  discusses the U.S.
economic outlook in congress tomorrow. German 10-year bunds
dropped for a second day before the nation auctions 5 billion
euros ($6.4 billion) of the securities tomorrow. Greek bonds
fell for the first time in six days.  “Economic data is not giving us particular cause for
concern at the moment so it just puts a little bit of upward
pressure on those yields,” said  John Wraith , a fixed-income
strategist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in  London . “Yields
are at such historically low levels that it almost takes an
ongoing stream of either bad economic news or risk-aversion type
news particularly from the  euro zone  just to sustain the
valuations that we got to.”  Germany ’s 10-year yield rose two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 1.40 percent at 4:42 p.m. London time after
climbing to 1.42, the highest since March 18. The 1.5 percent
bund due in February 2023 declined 0.18 or 1.80 euros per 1,000-euro face amount, to 100.935.  Austrian 10-year yields climbed four basis points to 1.75
percent,  France ’s gained three basis points to 1.91 percent and
those in the Netherlands increased by three basis points to
1.71 percent.  ‘Improve Markedly’  “Economic activity is expected to improve markedly in the
second quarter,” the Frankfurt-based central bank said today in
its monthly report. “There is reason to hope that exports and
investment in machinery and equipment, the demand components
that can usually be relied upon most to set the pace for the
German economy, will recover as well.”  Volatility on Belgian bonds was the highest in euro-area
markets today followed by those of the Germany and Ireland,
according to measures of 10-year debt, the yield spread between
two- and 10-year securities, and credit-default swaps.  The extra  yield  investors demand to hold Austrian 10-year
bonds instead of similar-maturity German bunds climbed one basis
point to 35 basis points after earlier dropping to 33 basis
points, the least since April 16.  “If you look at the Austria-German spread, there’s nothing
there,” said  Marc Ostwald , a fixed-income strategist at
Monument Securities Ltd. in London. “If you are going to have
German yields backing up, then the incentives for racing after
the semi core at these sort of levels, both in yield and spread
terms, are not easily justified.”  Bernanke’s Testimony  Bernanke will testify on the outlook for the  U.S. economy 
before the Joint Economic Committee of Congress. The  Federal
Open Market Committee  also releases the minutes of its April 30-May 1 meeting tomorrow.  Greek 10-year bond yields climbed three basis points to
8.21 percent after falling to 8.11 percent, the lowest level
since June 2010.  German bonds handed investors a loss of 0.9 percent this
month, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. Austrian
bunds dropped 0.4 percent and French bonds fell 0.3 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  