-- Ghana May Hold Key Rate as Inflation Climbs to Three-Year High
-- B y   P a u l i n e   B a x   a n d   M o s e s   M o z a r t   D z a w u
-- 2013-05-21T05:02:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/ghana-may-hold-key-rate-as-inflation-climbs-to-three-year-high.html
Ghana ’s central bank will  probably 
leave its benchmark  interest rate  unchanged for a fourth time as
a weakening currency pushes inflation to a three-year high.  The  Bank of Ghana  will keep the policy rate at 15 percent,
according to five of six economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Razia Khan , London-based head of African economic research with
Standard Chartered Plc, expects a 100 basis-point increase. The
decision will be announced at 11 a.m. tomorrow in the capital,
Accra.  The cedi has depreciated 4.4 percent this year against the
dollar as companies increase their demand for foreign exchange
to pay import bills and repatriate profits, central bank
Governor Kofi Wampah said in an interview last week.  The  inflation  rate climbed to 10.6 percent in April, the
highest level in almost three years, after the cedi had its
worst monthly decline since June. The currency closed unchanged
at 1.9915 per dollar yesterday in Accra.  The central bank will probably keep rates unchanged to
tackle inflation and help shore up the weakening currency, Angus Downie, head of economic research at  Ecobank Transnational Inc. (ETI) 
in  London , said in an e-mailed response to questions.  “Our expectation is also based on the need to maintain
high fixed-income yields that help attract capital inflows,
particularly in the wake of weaker oil and gold prices,” he
said.  Ghana is the world’s second-largest cocoa producer and the
continent’s No. 2 gold miner. Spot prices for the metal fell 17
percent this year, while West Texas Intermediate crude retreated
to a 2013 low of $86.97 a barrel on April 17 before rising to
$96.89 at 12:47 p.m. today in  Singapore . Ghana began exports of
crude in December 2010.  Borrowing costs on benchmark 91-day Treasury bills were
little changed at an auction on May 17 at 22.97 percent, the
second-highest in  Africa  after Malawi among debt of that
duration tracked by Bloomberg. Yields on $750 million dollar
bonds due October 2017 rose 3 basis points to 4.97 percent
yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pauline Bax in Accra at 
 pbax@bloomberg.net ;
Moses Mozart Dzawu in Accra at 
 mdzawu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  