-- Given Imaging Study May Help Approval: Israel Overnight
-- B y   L e s l i e   P i c k e r
-- 2013-05-22T13:50:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/given-imaging-study-may-help-approval-israel-overnight.html
Results from  Given Imaging Ltd. (GIVN) ’s
latest clinical study of a pill-sized camera used to identify
colon cancer probably will help the Israeli manufacturer secure
U.S. regulatory approval this year, Chief Executive Officer Homi Shamir said.  “The PillCam Colon’s potential is enormous,” Shamir said
in a phone interview yesterday from  Orlando ,  Florida . “The data
we presented will help us get regulatory approval by the end
of” the third quarter, the beginning of the fourth quarter.  Physicians can detect pre-cancerous tumors with PillCam
Colon, a capsule-sized camera that’s comparable to a
colonoscopy, according to trial results that Given Imaging
reported yesterday. New York-traded shares of the Yokneam,
Israel-based company fell 1.9 percent, erasing their premium to
Tel Aviv, after the stock in  Israel  surged 5.3 percent as the
company reported data on products. The Bloomberg Israel-US
Equity Index of the largest Israeli companies traded in the U.S.
dropped for the first time in six days.  Given Imaging, which sells its video capsules to peek into
the small bowel and esophagus, is seeking approval from the U.S.
Food and Drug Administration and  Japan ’s Pharmaceuticals and
Medical Devices Agency for its PillCam Colon for patients who
can’t undergo or complete an examination of the large intestine
and rectum. About 143,000 cases of colon and rectal cancer are
expected to be diagnosed this year in the U.S., according to the
National Cancer Institute.  Pricing Estimate  CEO Shamir said pricing of the PillCam Colon will be
similar to the PillCam SB, its device for the small bowel which
was introduced in 2001 and costs about $500 per capsule.
Colonoscopies can cost $800 to $1,200,  James Goodwin , a
professor at University of Texas Medical Branch in Galveston,
told Bloomberg News in March. Inappropriate use of the procedure
may cost about $500 million a year for Medicare, the U.S. health
program for the elderly and disabled, he said.  The data is “good enough to get FDA approval,” Jeremy Feffer, an analyst at Cantor Fitzgerald LP, said by phone
yesterday. Feffer has a buy rating for Given Imaging stock.
“It’s cheaper to cover, it’s going to help an increased screen
compliance and it’s keeping with the move toward minimally
invasive technology.”  Given Imaging also said yesterday new studies confirm the
value of PillCam SB in diagnosing, monitoring and managing
Crohn’s disease and other conditions of the small bowel.  The company’s  total sales  will rise 6.9 percent to a record
$193 million in 2013, according to the average of two analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Revenue will jump 13 percent
and 25 percent, respectively, in 2014 and 2015, the data show.
Yet analysts covering the stock are the most pessimistic in 13
months. Given Imaging is rated 3.8 by analysts, according to a
scale devised by Bloomberg where 1 indicates a sell and 5
denotes buy.  ‘Always longer’  While PillCam Colon will probably be approved in the U.S.,
sales won’t come through until doctors start using it, said
Stephen Brozak, an analyst at WBB Securities LLC.  “Adoption is always longer than people would like,”
Brozak, who has a hold rating on Given Imaging, said in a phone
interview yesterday from Clark, New Jersey.  Given Imaging slipped to $16.08, retreating from a two-month high. The stock declined 3.4 percent to 58.49 shekels, or
$15.88 in Tel Aviv today.  The Bloomberg Israel-US Equity Index retreated 0.2 percent
to 94.43. Israel’s benchmark TA-25 Index advanced less than 0.1
percent to 1,232.71.  Gilat Satellite Networks Ltd. (GILT) , based in
Petach Tikva, Israel, rallied 1.8 percent to $5.65, an almost
one-month high. Tel Aviv shares today slipped 0.2 percent to
20.61 shekels, or $5.60.  Allot Communications Ltd. (ALLT) , based in Hod Hasharon, Israel,
led the declines on the index, slipping 2.9 percent to $13.19.
The maker of technology used by telecommunications providers to
track wireless traffic dropped 3.9 percent today in Tel Aviv to
48.17 shekels, or $13.08.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Picker in  New York  at 
 lpicker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Laura Zelenko at 
 lzelenko@bloomberg.net  