-- GM’s Opel to Keep Bochum Logistics Unit Open on Contract
-- B y   D o r o t h e e   T s c h a m p a
-- 2013-05-21T15:51:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/gm-s-opel-to-keep-bochum-logistics-unit-open-on-contract.html
General Motors Co. (GM) ’s Opel brand  will
keep a spare-parts distribution center open until 2016 at its
plant in Bochum,  Germany , as long as two years after vehicle
production ends at the site, to respect an operating agreement.  Opel will fulfill a contract with  Neovia Logistics Services
LLC  that expires in three years, Alexander Bazio, a plant
spokesman, said today in an interview at the site.  The Bochum factory, which makes the Zafira van, is
scheduled to close by the end of 2014 after workers rejected a
restructuring plan in March that would have extended
manufacturing there for another two years in exchange for wage
concessions. Opel had said earlier that the logistics center,
which it said today supplies spare parts to dealers in  Europe 
with a workforce of 430, would close when carmaking ceases.  Opel’s management, under the leadership of newly appointed
Chief Executive Officer Karl-Thomas Neumann, is negotiating with
unions on early retirement and severance packages for the Bochum
location’s 3,000 employees. Workers at GM’s four other German
plants have agreed to a wage freeze in return for the  company ’s
pledge to avoid mass firings through 2016 as part of a project
to make Ruesselsheim, Germany-based Opel profitable.  The agreement rejected by the Bochum employees would have
prolonged Zafira production at the plant until the current model
expires at end of 2016. The agreement would have kept about
1,200 jobs in Bochum beyond that year in component manufacturing
and logistics.  Production Halt  Car workers at Bochum halted production today during a
works council information session that lasted more than 2 1/2
hours. Opel will need to spend about 100 million euros ($129
million) to shift production of the current Zafira to
Ruesselsheim, said Rainer Einenkel, head of the Bochum factory’s
works council, said at the meeting.  Opel views the model’s move as “economically viable,”
spokesman Bazio said, declining to comment on the figure.  The Bochum plant manager, Manfred Gellrich, didn’t speak to
the workers in public today and instead made a statement to
employees in a hall at the site, Bazio said.  More than 1,000 workers participated in today’s stoppage,
said Einenkel.  GM’s European division, which also includes Opel’s U.K.
sister car brand Vauxhall, narrowed its first-quarter loss to
$175 million from $294 million a year earlier. GM’s deficit in
the region since 1999 exceeds $18 billion. The Detroit-based
company has laid out plans to  invest  $4 billion through 2016 to
develop 23 vehicles and 13 new engines to ensure the European
division will break even by 2015.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorothee Tschampa in Bochum via 
 dtschampa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  