-- Goldman Said to Seek ICBC Exit With $1.1 Billion Sale
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-05-21T14:13:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/goldman-said-to-seek-icbc-exit-with-1-1-billion-sale.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  ended a
seven-year investment in  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China
Ltd.  by selling a $1.1 billion stake in the world’s largest
lender by market value, a person familiar with the matter said.  The  U.S. bank  sold 1.58 billion  shares  in ICBC at HK$5.50
each, the person said, asking not to be identified as the
information is private. That’s a 2.5 percent discount to ICBC’s
closing price yesterday in Hong Kong trading. The Beijing-based
bank closed 2.1 percent lower at HK$5.52 today, paring its gain
for the past year to 19 percent.  Singapore ’s state-owned Temasek
Holdings Private Ltd. bought 280 million ICBC shares, increasing
its stake to 7.04 percent, according to disclosures posted the
Hong Kong stock exchange website.  The Wall Street firm joins  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Bank of
America Corp . in cutting holdings in China as new capital rules
known as Basel III make it more expensive to hold minority
stakes in banks. Goldman Sachs has reaped about $12 billion in
sales proceeds and dividends from its $2.58 billion investment
in ICBC, calculations by Macquarie Capital Securities Ltd. show.  “Many foreign banks are facing capital shortages with the
new Basel requirement, so I’m not surprised that they dumped
holdings in Chinese banks on which they’ve already made massive
returns,” said Chen Xingyu, a Shanghai-based analyst at Phillip
Securities Group. “The exit strategy has been on the table for
these foreign investors since the very beginning because they
know these aren’t real strategic investments.”  Goldman Sachs and client funds offloaded ICBC shares at
least five times before the latest transaction after first
investing in ICBC in 2006. Connie Ling, a spokeswoman for New
York-based Goldman Sachs in  Hong Kong , declined to comment today
on the latest sale.  Capital Deductions  New rules set by the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision 
require punitive capital deductions for holding minority
investments in other financial institutions.  Goldman Sachs’ Tier 1 common ratio was about 12.7 percent
under Basel I and an estimated 9 percent under Basel III, Chief
Financial Officer Harvey Schwartz said last month.  Citigroup sold its entire stake in Shanghai Pudong
Development Bank in March 2012, nine years after buying it, for
an after-tax gain of $349 million. Bank of America sold 10.4
billion shares of China Construction Bank Corp. in November 2011
for a profit of about $1.8 billion, its fourth sale, leaving it
with a 1 percent stake.  ICBC last month reported a 12 percent increase in first-quarter profit, defying a sluggish domestic economy to boost
lending. The world’s most profitable lender extended 461 billion
 yuan  ($75 billion) of new loans in the first quarter, 25 percent
more than in the same period a year earlier.  Low Valuations  The bank and its closest local rivals are trading near
record-low valuations on concern that profit growth may slow as
loans sour and the government deregulates  interest rates . ICBC
trades at about six times estimated 2013 earnings, down from a
high of 21 times in early 2008, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “It’s good timing for Goldman to sell its stake in ICBC,”
said Rainy Yuan, an analyst in Shanghai at Masterlink Securities
Corp. “Valuations of Chinese banks will remain low as China’s
interest-rate liberalization is a long-term trend which will
hurt lenders’ profits.”  Credit-rating companies have also warned that  China  isn’t
reducing risks from local-government debt and credit expansion
fast enough. China’s shadow banking system -- which includes
private lending, trust loans, and credit from non-bank
institutions -- poses systemic risks to the nation’s financial
industry after expanding by more than 67 percent over the past
two years, Moody’s Investors Service said earlier this month.  Soured Loans  Chinese banks’  nonperforming loans  increased for a sixth
straight quarter, the longest streak in at least nine years, to
526.5 billion yuan as of March 31, regulatory data show.  “We believe NPL figures greatly understate the potential
scope of the problem of poor quality loans,”  Carson Block , the
short seller who runs Muddy Waters LLC, said in an e-mailed
reply to queries. “Our concerns implicate loans throughout the
economy -- both public and private sector.”  Block said this month that he’s betting against the debt of
 Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) , in part because an economic slowdown in
China will lead to “considerable stress” at the U.K. lender,
which gets two-thirds of profit from  Asia .  Global financial firms including Temasek Holdings Pte
invested $33 billion in Chinese lenders from 2001 to 2009,
according to the regulator. They still own at least $45 billion
of stakes in local banks, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Since acquiring the stake in ICBC in 2006, Goldman Sachs
has recorded $3.47 billion in net gains on the position,
according to company filings through the first quarter of 2013.  As of March, Goldman Sachs had a $1.11 billion position in
ICBC on its own balance sheet, down from $2.08 billion at the
end of December because of a sale in January, according to the
firm’s 10-Q filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jonathan Browning in Hong Kong at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net ;
Jun Luo in  Shanghai  at 
 jluo6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  