-- Gold ETF Sellers Facing Tax Surprises at 28% Gains Rate
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s
-- 2013-05-21T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/gold-etf-sellers-facing-tax-surprises-at-28-gains-rate.html
Investors who dumped shares in gold
exchange-traded funds amid the biggest selloff in the metal in
four years may be in for a shock:  capital-gains  taxes are higher
than for stocks and bonds.  Profits from investments in ETFs that back their shares
with physical holdings of precious metals face taxes as high as
28 percent for investments held at least a year. That’s the rate
the U.S. Internal Revenue Service applies to items it considers
“collectibles,” such as coins, art, silver and gold. Long-term
gains from stocks and bonds, including equity and fixed-income
ETFs, are taxed at a maximum 20 percent.  “There are some tax surprises out there lurking for them
when they go to sell,” Tim Steffen, director of financial
planning at wealth-management firm Robert W. Baird & Co. in
 Milwaukee , said of gold exchange-traded product investors.  The shares in  SPDR Gold Trust (GLD) , the largest gold ETF, with
$45.7 billion in assets, dropped 23 percent in the seven months
through May 17 after more than doubling in preceding five years.
The ETF rallied 3.1 percent yesterday as gold and silver futures
rebounded after Moody’s Investors Service said U.S. policy
makers must address debt woes to avoid a credit downgrade.  Assets in Gold Trust dropped 37 percent this year through
last week as sellers including billionaire  George Soros  forced
the fund to redeem shares. Gold saw a seven-session slump
through the end of last week that was the longest since March
2009.  George Padula, a financial adviser in  Boston  with Modera
Wealth Management LLC, said some clients are confronting the
issue because their previous advisers put Gold Trust in their
taxable investment accounts.  Avoiding ‘Headaches’  “The ideal place to hold something like that is in an
individual retirement account or other non-taxable account,”
Padula said. “That can save a lot of headaches.”  For taxable accounts, he prefers diversified commodities
funds that carry the same capital gains rates as stocks and
bonds. Commodities such as oil and agricultural products aren’t
deemed collectibles.  Investors reach the top capital-gains tax rate if they make
$400,000 or more annually, or $450,000 for married couples.
Individuals earning more than $200,000, or $250,000 for couples,
must also pay a 3.8 percent investment income tax as a result of
the 2010 health-care law.  For the highest earners, that may mean capital gains on
gold ETFs are taxed at 31.8 percent.  Gains from mining company stocks or funds would be taxed at
the lower rate, like other equities.  Gold sellers can consider offsetting gains by selling
investments that are down, or make charitable donations by
transferring the ETF shares, Padula said. Donated shares don’t
incur any capital-gains tax, he said, and the giver may be able
to deduct the full value of the shares against taxable income.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Collins in  New York  at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  