-- Golf Rulemakers to Ban Anchored Putting Strokes From 2016
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2013-05-21T13:06:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/golf-rulemakers-ban-anchored-putting-stroke-beginning-in-2016.html
Golf’s rulemakers banned anchored
putting strokes, a technique that has been used by players to
win four of the past six major professional tournaments and
drawn both support and opposition throughout the sport.  The outlawing of a stroke in which the player’s putter
rests against the body to create a pendulum-like swing will
begin Jan. 1, 2016, the  U.S. Golf Association  and Royal &
Ancient Golf Club said in a  statement . While the proposed rule
is intended for all players, the U.S. PGA Tour, the world’s top
professional circuit, hasn’t yet said if it will adopt the ban.  The new rule, known as Rule 14-1b, will not alter current
equipment rules and allows for the continued use of all
conforming clubs, including long-handled and belly putters,
provided they are not anchored to the body.  “We took a great deal of time to consider this issue and
received a variety of contributions from individuals and
organizations at all levels of the game,” R&A Chief Executive
Officer  Peter Dawson  said in the statement. “We recognize this
has been a divisive issue but after thorough consideration we
remain convinced that this is the right decision for golf.”  Increased Use  The use of anchored putting strokes, which first gained
popularity among players on the 50-and-over tour, has increased
at all levels over the past decade. While many players,
including 14-time major tournament winner  Tiger Woods , oppose
its use, others including  South Africa ’s  Tim Clark  and American
Keegan Bradley are against a ban and have threatened possible
legal action.  The governing bodies said they consulted with legal
advisers before drafting the rule, which if violated during play
would result in a two-stroke penalty or a loss of the hole if
used during head-to-head match play.  “In the event of any litigation, I can assure you of this,
we have looked at this from a legal perspective as well and we
feel confident of our position,” USGA President Glen Nager, a
Stanford University Law School graduate and partner in a
Washington, D.C.-based law firm, said in a press conference.  The U.S.  PGA Tour  said in a statement that it will review
the ban and discuss it with its Player Advisory Council and
Policy Board members over the next month before issuing any
comment.  While the stroke is used primarily in putting, the ban
would apply to its used with any club on the course.  “Anchoring creates potential advantages, such as making
the stroke simpler and more repeatable, restricting the movement
and rotation of the hands, arms and clubface, creating a fixed
pivot point, and creating extra support and stability that may
diminish the effects of nerves and pressure,” Nager said. “We
have heard and genuinely empathize with those who will need to
adjust. But the understandable objections of these relative few
cannot prevent adoption of a rule that will serve the best
interests of the entire game going forward.”  Belly Putter  Bradley became the first player to use a so-called belly
putter to win one of golf’s four Grand Slam events when he
captured the 2011  PGA Championship .  Clark has cited a wrist condition he was born with for the
need to rest his putter’s handle against his chest while
playing. He has used the stroke for 16 years.  Australia ’s  Adam Scott  won the  Masters Tournament  in April
using a putter that he anchored against his chest. Tianlang
Guan, a 14-year-old Chinese amateur, became the youngest player
to make the 36-hole cut at the Masters while using a similar
stroke.  In 2012, 15 percent of professional golfers used anchored
putters, up from 6 percent from 2006 through 2010, the two
groups said when disclosing the proposed ban in November.  The U.S. PGA Tour had opposed the ban, while the European
PGA Tour had said it would support the decision to outlaw the
stroke.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  