-- GP Investments Buys Stake in Switzerland’s Apen
-- B y   F r a n c i s c o   M a r c e l i n o
-- 2013-05-21T09:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/gp-investments-buys-stake-in-switzerland-s-apen.html
GP Investments Ltd.,  Latin America ’s
largest private-equity fund, agreed to pay $33 million for a
26.7 percent stake in  Apen AG (APEN)  as it seeks to expand in  emerging
markets .  The deal makes GP the biggest shareholder in Zug,
Switzerland-based Apen and gives it control of the firm’s
management, the fund said today in an e-mailed statement.
Newbury Partners LLC and  Fortress Investment Group LLC (FIG)  will
invest $214 million as part of the transaction and each will
receive a 13.4 percent stake, GP said.  “This is a very financially attractive deal with a
discount of almost 50 percent in the net asset value,” GP co-Chief Executive Officer Antonio Bonchristiano said in a
telephone interview.  GP, Newbury and Fortress will buy  American International
Group Inc. (AIG) ’s stake and new shares, Bonchristiano said. The Swiss
company, once known as AIG Private Equity, will invest in Asia,
Latin America and possibly in Russia, Bonchristiano said.  GP was  little changed  at 4.52 reais in Sao Paulo yesterday.
Apen gained 0.2 percent to 22 Swiss francs in Zurich. GP said it
is paying 21.8 francs a share.  GP made five acquisitions in the past 12 months including a
30 percent stake in Grupo SBF SA, owner of sport retailer
Centauro, for 450 million reais ($221 million) in November,
according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. The fund also bought
2,000 telecom towers in Brazil for 503 million reais in
September to create BR Towers.  GP will add $421 million in assets under management with
today’s acquisition, according to the statement. The Hamilton,
Bermuda-based firm said it will be responsible for Apen’s
current and new portfolios.  GP was founded by Brazil’s richest person,  Jorge Paulo Lemann , who sold his stake in 2004 to executive partners
including Bonchristiano and co-CEO Fersen Lambranho.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francisco Marcelino in Sao Paulo at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  