-- Gupta Challenges U.S. Use of Wiretaps in Insider Appeal
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-05-21T19:43:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/gupta-challenges-u-s-use-of-wiretaps-in-insider-appeal.html
Former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
director  Rajat Gupta  asked a federal appeals court to overturn
his insider-trading conviction, with his lawyer arguing that
prosecutors shouldn’t have been allowed at his  jury trial  to use
secretly wiretapped calls in which he wasn’t a participant.  Defense lawyer  Seth Waxman  also told a panel of three
judges on the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in  New York  the defense was
hindered by not being able to put on testimony from the
defendant’s daughter about his state of mind prior to the
alleged 2008 crimes. Waxman said Gupta was prevented from
presenting evidence that he’d been swindled by the friend and
business partner, fund manager  Raj Rajaratnam , to whom he was
accused of giving illegal tips. Gupta, his wife and four
daughters all attended today’s hourlong hearing.  Three days before Gupta allegedly provided inside
information about Goldman Sachs to Rajaratnam, the Galleon Group
LLC co-founder, in September 2008, Gupta told his daughter
Geetanjali he had discovered that Rajaratnam secretly withdrew
$25 million from a fund which both men had invested in, Waxman
said. The lawyer told the appeals court that conversation should
have been presented as evidence.  “Mr. Gupta told her that he’d come to believe that Mr.
Rajaratnam had cheated him out of millions of dollars,” said
Waxman, who was U.S. Solicitor General under President  Bill Clinton  and is now with WilmerHale.  “That testimony could have powerfully refuted the
government’s theory on motive and timing,” Waxman said, adding
that it could have provided “an innocent explanation for the
telephone calls in question.”  Procter & Gamble  Gupta, 64, who was a managing partner at McKinsey & Co.,
and a director at  Procter & Gamble Co ., was convicted in June of
one count of conspiracy and three counts of securities fraud. He
was accused of passing illegal information about New York-based
Goldman Sachs to Rajaratnam.  The jury convicted Gupta of twice passing information about
Goldman Sachs to Rajaratnam, once on Sept. 23, 2008, and again
on Oct. 23, 2008. Waxman argued that Gupta’s conviction should
be reversed and that he is entitled to a new trial. Waxman also
said the government should be barred from using as evidence two
court-authorized wiretaps of phone calls in September and
October that don’t involve Gupta.  In one call intercepted by agents of the  Federal Bureau of
Investigation , Rajaratnam boasted to David Lau, a Galleon trader
in  Singapore , that he’d gotten a tip from someone on Goldman
Sachs’s board.  “I heard yesterday from someone who’s on the board of
Goldman Sachs that they’re going to lose $2 a share, the market
has them making $2.50,” Rajaratnam said on the call. “I’m
going to whack it.”  ‘Inadmissible Braggadocio’  U.S. Circuit Judge Rosemary Pooler today questioned if Lau
was a co-conspirator, and if not, whether the October wiretap of
the call between Rajaratnam and Lau should be suppressed and
the  securities fraud  charge stemming from that call should be
dismissed.  Waxman argued that both wiretapped calls were admitted as
evidence erroneously under the theory that they furthered the
insider-trading conspiracy. Waxman said prosecutors didn’t
allege Lau was a member of the Rajaratnam-Gupta conspiracy and
in court papers called the boast to Lau “inadmissible
braggadocio.”  Gupta also challenged the legality of the calls secretly
recorded by the FBI, saying that U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff,
who presided over the case, wrongly allowed prosecutors to use
three recordings of telephone calls of Rajaratnam talking about
his sources, calls in which Gupta wasn’t a participant.  Waxman and defense lawyer Gary Naftalis said jurors got a
“distorted picture” in which Rajaratnam’s statements to
Galleon employees couldn’t be refuted by Gupta. They called
Rajaratnam’s comments on the wiretaps “the self-serving hearsay
of a known fabulist beyond Gupta’s powers to cross-examine.”  ‘Distorted Picture’  U.S. Circuit Judge Jon Newman today questioned Waxman about
how the appeals court should view phone records introduced by
the government as evidence showing that Gupta called Rajaratnam
within minutes of leaving Goldman Sachs board meetings in
September and October 2008, after sensitive information was
disclosed.  “I’m not sure what you’re asking us to conclude,” Newman
said. “He comes out of the board meeting, he makes a call. He
talks to a man within seconds. The man he talks to makes trades
within seconds. Are you telling us that’s a coincidence?”  Assistant U.S. Attorney Richard Tarlowe argued that the
government provided substantial evidence to prove that Gupta had
repeatedly tipped Rajaratnam about nonpublic information he’d
learned from board meetings at Goldman Sachs.  “Gupta was doing it not to unselfishly help Rajaratnam but
to help himself,” Tarlowe said, adding that there was
“overwhelming evidence Gupta tipped Rajaratnam.”  The other judge on today’s panel was Amalya Kearse.  One Victory  Gupta already has won one victory from the New York-based
appeals court. In December, it allowed him to remain free while
he fought his conviction. The court overturned U.S. District
Judge Jed Rakoff’s ruling ordering Gupta to surrender to prison
authorities on Jan. 8 and begin serving his two-year sentence.  Rajaratnam, who was convicted in 2011 of directing the
biggest hedge fund insider-trading scheme in U.S. history, is
serving an 11-year prison term at the Federal Medical Center
Devens in Ayers,  Massachusetts . His request to be allowed to
remain free pending appeal was refused.  Gupta’s lawyers echoed arguments made by Rajaratnam’s
lawyers that prosecutors improperly won authority to wiretap the
fund manager’s calls. In October, a separate panel of three
appeals court judges, Robert Sack, Jose Cabranes and Susan Carney, voiced concern over the Rajaratnam wiretaps. That panel
hasn’t ruled yet.  Rajaratnam’s lawyers argued prosecutors misled the federal
judge who authorized the wiretaps in 2008 by omitting key facts
from their request for the secret recordings.  Jury Confusion  Gupta’s lawyers argued today that Rakoff improperly barred
lawyers from presenting evidence that Rajaratnam had an
alternative Goldman Sachs tipper,  David Loeb , a former Goldman
Sachs executive. Gupta’s lawyers had sought to play wiretapped
recordings of Loeb allegedly tipping Rajaratnam and offer other
evidence that Rakoff blocked at trial. Loeb hasn’t been charged
with any crimes.  Rakoff ruled the defense was improperly attempting to get
that information before the jury without a witness and that the
evidence would confuse the jury.  Prosecutor’s Argument  Tarlowe argued today that Gupta’s conviction should stand,
saying there was ample evidence that Rajaratnam and Gupta were
partners in several business ventures, including the Voyager
Fund in which Gupta alleges Rajaratnam secretly withdrew $25
million.  He told the appeals court that the evidence showed Gupta
continued to provide the  fund manager  with inside tips because
he would benefit from any trades made by Rajaratnam.  “Whatever Gupta’s feelings were toward Rajaratnam about
the Voyager Fund, he was still motivated to help Rajaratnam, as
evidenced by these tips,” Tarlowe said.  Tarlowe also said today that the wiretaps were lawfully
obtained and that Rakoff correctly allowed prosecutors to play
the secretly recorded calls during the trial because
Rajaratnam’s statements “were an obvious admission that he had
committed a serious crime.”  The case is U.S. v. Gupta, 12-4448, U.S. Court of Appeals
for the Second Circuit ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  