-- ICE Joins CME Warning of Splits in Global Derivatives Rules
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2013-05-21T17:10:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/ice-joins-cme-warning-of-splits-in-global-derivatives-rules.html
Top executives of the two largest
U.S. derivatives exchanges say regulators must take further
steps to align Dodd-Frank Act rules with those of foreign
counterparts to avoid oversight splits that could harm markets.  The Commodity Futures Trading Commission and overseas
agencies have a few months to improve coordination before
differences hurt business,  IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE) 
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Sprecher  said at a
House Agriculture Committee hearing where testified alongside
 CME Group (CME)  Inc. Executive Chairman Terry Duffy.  “Global financial reform efforts are not being harmonized
and substantial differences remain between regulatory regimes,”
Sprecher said at today’s hearing in  Washington . “It is crucial
to understand that if countries erect barriers, markets and
market participants will be damaged.”  The CFTC and Securities and Exchange Commission are leading
U.S. efforts to revamp oversight of the $633 trillion global
swaps market after unregulated trades helped fuel the 2008
credit crisis. Representative Frank D. Lucas, the Oklahoma
Republican who leads the Agriculture Committee, called the
hearing to begin considering changes to the law that authorizes
the CFTC to provide oversight of swaps and futures markets.  Duffy warned lawmakers that a proposal to pay for market
oversight through industry fees would drive business out of the
U.S. A user fee on market-making represents a tax that threatens
to increase costs on users of derivatives, he said.  Contentious Rulemaking  The international reach of the CFTC’s swap rules has been
one of the most contentious parts of the agency’s Dodd-Frank
work, drawing opposition from banks including  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM) , Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Barclays Plc. European and
Asian regulators criticized the U.S. agency for the reach of
rules requiring trades to be guaranteed at clearinghouses and
traded on exchanges or other platforms.  Swaps rules under consideration in the U.S. are fragmenting
the global market, nine overseas finance officials said in an
April 18 letter urging U.S. Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew to
limit Dodd-Frank’s reach.  “An approach in which jurisdictions require that their own
domestic regulatory rules be applied to their firms’ derivatives
transactions taking place in broadly equivalent regulatory
regimes abroad is not sustainable,” the officials wrote to Lew,
who has no formal role in the agencies’ rulemaking.  Comparable Goals  CFTC Chairman Gary Gensler has pushed for rules to cover
foreign branches and subsidiaries of U.S. banks unless overseas
regulations are comparable enough to accomplish the same goals.  “Because markets are global and capital flows across
borders, no single country or regulatory regime oversees the
derivatives market,” Sprecher said in his prepared remarks.
“In order to make long-term business decisions, market
participants require certainty that their transactions will not
be judged on conflicting standards.”  The lack of coordination between among regulators is
forcing ICE to consider splitting contracts into different
versions for each jurisdiction, he said at the hearing.  European regulators face a regulatory process that is so
rigid “that to change is like turning around an oil tanker,”
Stephen O’Connor, chairman of the International Swaps and
Derivatives Association Inc., told lawmakers at the hearing.
“People shouldn’t underestimate the seriousness of potential
conflict.”  At today’s hearing the Agriculture Committee also debated
ways to improve protection of client funds after money went
missing during the downfalls of  MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ)  and
Peregrine Financial Group Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  