-- IIF Chief Says Europeans Seeking Input on How to Revive Lending
-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s
-- 2013-05-21T13:10:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/iif-chief-says-europeans-seeking-input-on-how-to-revive-lending.html
The  Institute of International
Finance  is exploring options with European officials to help
spur lending to small- and medium-sized enterprises, the head of
the Washington-based industry group said.  “We are offering suggestions and dialogue with Brussels,
with Frankfurt and with various country-specific capitals,
helping them to think” about what such a program to support
lending to companies might look like,  Tim Adams , the IIF’s
president and chief executive officer, said in an interview May
17. “We are actually very actively working with a variety of
different governments and officials to help them think through
the SME problem.”  Germany ,  France , the U.K. and  Italy  will be the weakest
economies among the Group of Seven industrial nations this year,
according to International Monetary Fund projections released
last month. Europe’s sluggish growth has prompted officials
including Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew to call on policy
makers in the bloc to adopt measures that allow credit to flow
more freely to smaller businesses that often account for the
bulk of hiring.  Adams called Europe a “heterogeneous place” where
economic conditions vary from country to country. “They want to
be sure they understand the problem and I know they are actively
looking for input from outside sources,” he said. “We’re
certainly engaged with them.”  More Stimulus  The Frankfurt-based  European Central Bank  on May 2 cut its
benchmark  interest rate  to a record low of 0.5 percent and
President  Mario Draghi  said the central bank is exploring
options to rekindle the market for asset-backed securities to
support lending to smaller companies. Still, policy makers are
“far from reaching any conclusion,” he said.  The IIF represents international financial companies, with
a board of directors that includes executives from banks
including HSBC Holdings Plc, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and
Deutsche Bank AG.  In Europe, there are “a whole host of things they need to
do in order to restore growth. One of them is begin to find ways
to channel capital back in the hands of small- and medium-size
enterprises,” said Adams, a former U.S. Treasury undersecretary
for international affairs.  Adams took over the helm of the IIF from  Charles Dallara 
earlier this year.  ECB Executive Board member Benoit Coeure said May 17 while
the central bank is looking at options to spur lending to
smaller companies, it shouldn’t artificially change risk
premiums paid by such firms.  ECB Independence  “The ECB can only act within its mandate,” Coeure said.
Reducing risk premiums or assuming non-profitable assets from
banks’ balance sheets “would be to the detriment of the central
bank’s independence and freedom of action,” he said.  Adams said Europe needs to deal with a broken
“transmission mechanism” of bank lending and rein in
austerity, “which they have begun to do so that you can be a
little more pro-growth.”  “The challenge for  Europe  is it’s a heavy banked economy.
If banks aren’t lending, you can’t grow,” Adams said. You’ve
got to have capital.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meera Louis in Washington at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  