-- Illinois Pension Fix Seen in Best Rally Since 2011: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a   a n d   T i m   J o n e s
-- 2013-05-21T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/illinois-pension-fix-seen-in-best-rally-since-2011-muni-credit.html
Illinois  debt is rallying the most
since 2011 as investors bet lawmakers will end two decades of
inaction and pass a measure to fix the worst-funded U.S. state
pension system.  With 11 days left in the budget session, each legislative
chamber has approved a pension-overhaul bill. The house plan
will save $150 billion over 30 years, while the senate version,
endorsed by public-employee unions, would cut the shortfall by
about $50 billion. Passing either may halt downgrades that have
made Illinois the lowest-rated state.  Illinois would join states such as  New York  and  Rhode
Island  that have moved to reduce pension costs. States and
localities faced more than $2 trillion in unfunded public-employee retirement obligations in 2010, according to Moody’s
Investors Service.  “I would think they get a compromise this time -- the
market will be pretty disappointed if they don’t,” said Tim McGregor, who oversees about $30 billion as director of
municipal fixed-income at Northern Trust Corp. in  Chicago .
“Spreads have rallied in on the news, and they could widen
pretty quickly if they don’t come to terms with anything.”  2011 Level  Taxable Illinois pension-obligation bonds maturing in June
2033 yielded 2.29 percentage points more than benchmark
Treasuries May 13, four days after the Senate bill was approved,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. That’s the smallest penalty
since August 2011, when  Standard & Poor’s  rated the state two
steps higher than its current A- grade.  Governor  Pat Quinn , a 64-year-old Democrat, said in January
that the pension challenge “has confounded legislatures and
governors for 70 years.” The degree of underfunding accelerated
in the past two decades as the state skipped required annual
payments and issued general obligations starting in 2003 to
cover pension costs. In March, the state settled with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission over charges it misled
investors from 2005 to 2009 about retirement shortfalls.  The state’s public-employee retirement systems had about 43
percent of the assets needed to pay for pension obligations as
of 2011, compared with the national median of about 72 percent,
Bloomberg data show. The state faces a $97 billion retirement
liability that’s crowding out other spending. Lawmakers are
trying to resolve the squeeze by May 31, when the budget session
is scheduled to end.  Dueling Plans  The resolution hinges on whether legislators can decide
between the house bill and the senate measure, which senate
President John Cullerton, a Chicago Democrat, said wouldn’t run
afoul of the state constitution’s protection of pension
benefits. The governor applauded the house version when it
passed.  McGregor said a compromise would probably resemble the
senate measure more than the house’s. Yet investors such as
 Richard Ciccarone  at McDonnell Investment Management LLC
questioned whether a middle ground is possible.  “That’s a pretty big hurdle,” said Ciccarone, managing
director at  Oak Brook , Illinois-based McDonnell, which oversees
about $8 billion in munis. “They’re pretty far apart, and we’ve
got just until the end of the month to make that happen.”  Resolution Anticipated  “The spreads are kind to them, quite frankly, given what
the problems are,” he said. “They already consider some
potential resolution.”  S&P said in its January report downgrading Illinois that
even though it’s unusual for states to fall into the lowest
investment-grade tier, “lack of action on pension reform”
could prompt another rating cut. S&P, Moody’s and  Fitch Ratings 
give the state a negative outlook.  Complicating the political challenge is language in the
Illinois constitution saying pension benefits “shall not be
diminished or impaired.”  Cullerton argued the pension bill approved by the senate
would survive a constitutional challenge because it gives
employees a choice on benefits.  House Speaker Michael Madigan’s bill, passed May 2,
requires workers to contribute two percentage points more of
their incomes to pay for retirement earnings. The senate leader
is also a Democrat from Chicago.  “We’ve been saying for five or six years, ‘Well, they
can’t possibly not deal with this,’ and they’ve managed not to
deal with this,” said Kent Redfield, a political science
professor at the University of Illinois Springfield. The chances
of lawmakers passing a bill are “probably 60 to 70 percent,”
he said in an interview.  Cheaper Money  Across Illinois, localities are getting cheaper borrowing
costs as the state moves closer to a pension fix. Buyers demand
 1.42 percentage points  of extra yield on 10-year debt from
Illinois and its localities relative to top-grade securities,
down from 1.48 percentage points on May 1, Bloomberg data show.
That’s still the widest spread among the 19 states tracked by
Bloomberg.  Illinois also faces $9 billion in unpaid bills to vendors.
The state may chip away at its backlog with a $2.5 billion bond
sale approved by a house committee last month. It will also pay
some of the bills with a one-time surge of about $1.3 billion of
income-tax revenue, the governor said this month. S&P said
there’s “limited upside potential” for Illinois’s credit
rating in the next two years because of its liabilities.  “They’ve dragged their feet longer than any state,”
McGregor said. A pension overhaul “isn’t their only issue, and
it’s not going to all of a sudden mean the credit is AA.”  Still, “the market is pretty focused on this” legislative
session, McGregor said. “They need to get this right.”  Borrowing Slows  Issuers in Illinois are planning to offer $44 million of
debt this week, the least since January, as supply is poised to
drop below its 2013 average. Nationwide issuance may tally $6.3
billion, about $600 million less than the  weekly average  this
year.  At  1.85 percent , yields on benchmark 10-year munis compare
with  1.96 percent  for similar-maturity Treasuries.  The ratio of the two  interest rates , a gauge of relative
value, is about  94 percent . It has been below 100 percent for
eight straight sessions, the longest streak since February. The
lower the figure, the more expensive municipal bonds are
compared with federal securities. The ratio has averaged 92
percent since 2001.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Jones in Chicago at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  