-- IMF Not Concerned About Dubai Ability to Repay Debt, Ahmed Says
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i
-- 2013-05-21T08:12:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/imf-not-concerned-about-dubai-ability-to-repay-debt-ahmed-says.html
The  International Monetary Fund  said
it isn’t worried about Dubai’s ability to meet its financial
obligations after the emirate that almost defaulted in 2009
successfully managed to reschedule payments.  “So far the government-related entities have managed debt
rescheduling from 2009 quite successfully,”  Masood Ahmed , the
head of the fund’s  Middle East  and Central Asia department, said
in Dubai today.  Dubai’s government redeemed a 3.3 billion dirham ($898
million) liability that matured in April, and three state-linked
companies paid or refinanced $3.75 billion of debt last year,
bolstering investor confidence. The emirate is committed to
repaying its debts, and will do “whatever we have to do,”
Sheikh Ahmed bin Saeed  Al Maktoum , head of the emirate’s Supreme
Fiscal Committee, said in an interview May 8.  Dubai and its entities spent about $113 billion to
transform the emirate into a tourism and commercial hub,
according to IMF estimates. The government has $26 billion of
principal payments outstanding on bonds, including $17.93
billion maturing next year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Moody’s said in March that Dubai faces a “pivotal year” in
2014.  “Debt levels in Dubai are still quite high at about 100
percent of gross domestic product,” Ahmed said.  The emirate’s economic growth may accelerate to 4 percent
this year as the construction and logistics industries revive,
Ahmed said. Dubai should take steps to avoid “another boom-bust
cycle” in real estate, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net ;
Dana El Baltaji in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  