-- India Revises Guidelines for Computer-Based Trading
-- B y   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y   a n d   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i
-- 2013-05-22T08:18:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/india-revises-guidelines-for-computer-based-trading.html
India ’s market regulator revised
guidelines for computer-based trading, providing for temporary
suspension of brokers and higher fines to curb manipulation.  Brokers offering algorithmic trading facilities must get
their systems audited every six months, the Securities and
Exchange Board of India said yesterday. The regulator also
directed exchanges to double the penalty on trading firms that
place a large number of orders that don’t result into actual
transactions. The rules come into effect May 27.  Regulators around the world are probing market structures
and electronic trading after a series of mishaps. Trading in
India’s CNX Nifty was halted for 15 minutes on Oct. 5 after the
50-stock measure sank as much as 16 percent. While the plunge
wasn’t due to a malfunctioning trading program, the new rules
are aimed at preventing a repeat of routs, said Deven Choksey,
managing director at K.R. Choksey Shares & Securities Pvt.  “The measures have certainly come in the aftermath of the
markets crash we saw late last year,” he said by phone from
Mumbai. “The increase in charges suggests that the regulator
wants to put a check on speculative trading that’s happening in
the markets.”  The Nifty slump came about two months after market maker
 Knight Capital Group Inc. (KCG)  bombarded U.S. bourses with mistaken
orders in the first few minutes of trade, while high-frequency
orders worsened the so-called flash crash of May 2010, which
briefly wiped $862 billion from American equities. A surge in
trades of about 12 Australian stocks two weeks after the Nifty
incident spurred inquiries from that nation’s market regulator.  Complex Markets  Global stock markets have become predominantly electronic
over the last 15 years as technology costs fell, rules changed
and computers that match orders replaced human traders.
Algorithms, which buy or sell larger orders in smaller pieces
across venues, automated a process previously handled by
individuals as the complexity and speed of markets increased.  India is the most recent jurisdiction after Hong Kong,
 Australia  and Europe to update rules for electronic trading.
Hong Kong’s rules, which come into effect Jan. 1, make firms
responsible for all settlement and financial obligations for
orders sent through their systems.  Indian exchanges, following the regulator’s directive in
March last year, began levying charges to dissuade algorithmic
trading firms from placing a large number of orders that don’t
convert into actual transactions. The BSE Ltd. charges up to
0.05 rupee per order when a brokerage’s order-to-trade ratio
falls between 250 and 500, according to the bourse’s website.
Sebi yesterday directed exchanges to double that charge.  Punching Error  “More system auditing is definitely good but not enough to
prevent freak trades from happening,” Supreeth S.M., chief
executive officer at Quant First Asset Advisors India Ltd.,
which manages options with a notional value of about $100
million, said by e-mail from Bangalore. “There should be more
tightening of the way you can put orders through algo” to
prevent punching errors, he said.  The Nifty incident was caused by as many as 59 erroneous
trades by a dealer at  Emkay Global Financial Services Ltd. (EMKAY)  in
Mumbai, the National Stock Exchange Ltd. said in a statement on
Oct. 5. The brokerage said Oct. 8 that one of its dealers
“committed a bona fide error.”  The S&P BSE Sensex, India’s benchmark stock index, has
risen 3.5 percent this year, the most among benchmark measures
in the BRIC group of the largest emerging nations, as foreign
funds extended equity purchases amid easing by central banks
from Europe to Australia. The 30-stock gauge fell 0.1 percent to
20,097.81 at 1:45 p.m. in Mumbai.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net ;
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  