-- Indonesia’s Basri Sees Subsidies, Infrastructure Key
-- B y   Y u d i t h   H o   a n d   S h a r o n   C h e n
-- 2013-05-22T02:48:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/indonesia-s-basri-sees-fuel-subsidies-infrastructure-as-key.html
(Corrects to say crude oil sales in 12th paragraph in story
originally published May 21.)  Indonesia’s new Finance Minister
Chatib Basri said cutting fuel subsidies and building more
infrastructure will be his two main priorities.  Reducing subsidies will strengthen the rupiah,  Asia ’s worst
performer in the past 12 months excluding the yen, Basri said in
a Bloomberg TV interview today with  Rishaad Salamat . The land
acquisition law, signed by President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono in
December, will speed up infrastructure development over the next
few years as access to land has held back development, Basri,
who was sworn in today, said by telephone.  Yudhoyono has made increasing gasoline and diesel prices
conditional on parliament approving a compensation package for
the poor to be included in the 2013 revised budget. The new
finance minister will oversee the revision, Coordinating
Minister for the Economy Hatta Rajasa said last week.
Indonesia’s current-account deficit was 2.77 percent of gross
domestic product last year, the biggest shortfall since 1996,
central bank data show.  “The impact on the rupiah will be positive because
adjusting the fuel price will reduce the consumption of gasoline
and will see an improvement on the current-account side,” Basri
said in the interview. “This is also good for investor
confidence because people will start to look at  Indonesia  in a
better shape.”  Inflation Forecast  Southeast Asia ’s largest economy may  expand  6.2 percent
this year, Basri said, adding that an improving global situation
could see the nation achieve 6.4 percent growth in 2014. GDP
rose 6.02 percent last quarter, the slowest pace since the three
months through September 2010, official data show.  The government would save 42 trillion rupiah ($4.3 billion)
this year if the gasoline price is raised by 2,000 rupiah a
liter, provided it takes effect in June, Rajasa said in Jakarta
today. A fuel-price increase may quicken  inflation  to 7 percent,
Basri said following his inauguration today. Consumer prices
advanced 5.57 percent in April from a year earlier, according to
official data.  “Basri has been very closely associated with the previous
cycles of fuel-price increase, so his experience with those
episodes will very, very helpful,” Taimur Baig, chief economist
for ASEAN and  India  at Deutsche Bank AG in  Singapore , said in an
interview today, referring to the last time Indonesia raised
prices in 2008.  The country may have waited too long to raise fuel prices
and the increase could have limited impact on demand, so
borrowing costs might need to be raised to reduce the trade and
current-account deficits, he said.  “We are bullish Indonesia for the long term, but we do
worry about policy-related uncertainty hurting  market sentiment 
in the short term,” Baig said.  Budget Assumptions  The rupiah weakened 0.1 percent to 9,763 per dollar as of
4:08 p.m. in Jakarta, prices from local banks compiled by
Bloomberg show. The  Jakarta Composite (JCI)  index of shares declined
0.5 percent, the most in a week.  Government bonds  fell. The yield on notes due May 2023 rose
two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 5.62 percent, the
highest level since May 6, according to prices from the Inter
Dealer Market Association.  The revised 2013 budget assumes inflation at 7.2 percent,
crude oil sales at 840,000 barrels per day and the rupiah at
9,600 per dollar, Bambang Brodjonegoro, head of fiscal policy at
the  finance ministry , said in Jakarta today. The revised budget
has not been submitted to parliament yet.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yudith Ho in Jakarta at 
 yho35@bloomberg.net ;
Sharon Chen in Singapore at 
 schen462@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Greg Ahlstrand at 
 gahlstrand@bloomberg.net  