-- Intel CEO Takes Control of Chip Division Amid Mobile Push
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2013-05-21T20:26:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/intel-ceo-krzanich-plans-faster-shift-to-mobile-chips.html
Intel Corp. (INTC)  Chief Executive Officer
Brian Krzanich, trying to speed up the company’s push into
mobile markets, took direct control of the division that is
responsible for designing chips.  The former factory manager, promoted to the company’s top
job last week, now has the Intel Architecture Group reporting
directly to him, Intel said today in a  regulatory filing . Under
former CEO  Paul Otellini , the unit was run by David Perlmutter,
who will now lead a “management transition effort.”  Intel will accelerate a push to get its chips used by
makers of smartphones and tablets, Krzanich told Intel
shareholders at the annual meeting last week, when he became
CEO. He takes over as the company struggles to cut into  Qualcomm
Inc. (QCOM) ’s lead in the $85.4 billion mobile-chip market.  “These changes reflect the imperatives that Brian outlined
last week at the stockholder meeting,” said  Chuck Mulloy , a
spokesman for the Santa Clara, California-based company. “They
are designed to clarify management roles and accelerate Intel’s
market performance.”  Newly promoted President Renee James will oversee Intel’s
manufacturing operations. Mike Bell, co-leader of the company’s
mobile-phone chip business, is being moved to a new position
where he will be responsible for “new devices,” according to
Mulloy. Vice President Hermann Eul will continue on as head of
the mobile and communications group that Bell is leaving.  Chief Financial Officer Stacy Smith, who reports to
Krzanich, has been given additional responsibility for Intel
Capital and the company’s internal use of information
technology.  Intel  shares  advanced less than 1 percent to $24.15 at the
close New York, leaving them 17 percent higher this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  