-- Intuit Sales, Profit Top Estimates Aided by Mobile Tools
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2013-05-22T20:09:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/intuit-sales-profit-top-estimates-aided-by-mobile-tools.html
Intuit Inc. (INTU) , the largest seller of
personal-finance software, reported fiscal third-quarter sales
and profit that topped analysts’ estimates as more customers
used Web tools for tax-preparation and other tasks.  Profit excluding some items for the period, which ended in
April, was $2.97 a share on sales of $2.18 billion,  Mountain
View , California-based Intuit said in a statement yesterday.
That compares with analysts’ average projection for earnings of
$2.93 a share on revenue of $2.17 billion, according to  data 
compiled by Bloomberg.  Intuit Chief Executive Officer  Brad Smith  is trying to
boost adoption of new tax and small-business products for  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad and other mobile devices as the company’s core tax-filing business stagnates. TurboTax revenue this fiscal year
will grow just 4 percent, hurt by an inability to boost online
share and fewer Americans filing tax returns, Intuit said.  “They’ve got to step on the gas here,” said  Brent Thill ,
an analyst at UBS AG in San Francisco who recommends buying the
stock. “They’ve got an engine out in tax, and it’s a big piece
of the business. It puts even more pressure on these other
businesses to kick in.”  Smith has been adding services aimed at smartphone and
tablet users to help boost the number of repeat customers and
bolster revenue as consumers and small businesses cut software
spending. New products, including a tax-filing application for
Apple’s iPhone, online-marketing software for small businesses,
and a new online version of QuickBooks accounting software for
global users are attracting customers, he said on a conference
call yesterday.  Tax Season  “These are a lot of smaller efforts that represent big
opportunities,” said Brad Zelnick, an analyst at Macquarie
Capital USA Inc. He has a neutral rating on the shares.  Yet TurboTax, which accounts for about a  third  of annual
sales, has been dogged by competition from  H&R Block Inc. (HRB) , an
overly complex user interface, and a decline in the number of
U.S. tax filers, he said.  “It was a challenging tax season in almost every
dimension,” Smith said. “TurboTax has to be drop-dead
simple.”  Intuit cut its third-quarter sales and profit forecasts
last month, citing a decline in tax returns filed as of April
12. The IRS didn’t start accepting  electronic returns  until Jan.
30, about two weeks later than usual, Intuit said.  Profit Forecast  CEO Smith is reckoning with a second straight year of tax
software sales missing the company’s goals, and Intuit said May
20 it’s reorganizing into six new units starting Aug. 1, and
that the managers of its small business and global business
groups would retire after the end of the fiscal year in July.  Net income in the third quarter rose 12 percent to $822
million from $734 million a year earlier.  Profit excluding some items for the fiscal fourth quarter
will be 3 cents to 7 cents a share, on sales of $702 million to
$727 million, Intuit said. Analysts on average had projected
earnings of 10 cents a share on revenue of $726.1 million,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Intuit’s shares rose 1.2 percent to $58.59 at the close in
 New York , leaving them down 1.5 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  