-- Iodine Deficiency in Pregnancy Affects Mental Development
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2013-05-21T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/iodine-deficiency-in-pregnancy-affects-mental-development.html
Deficiency in iodine, which can be
consumed through dairy products and seafood, during pregnancy
may have an adverse effect on children’s mental development,
according to a study published in the Lancet medical journal.  Following  World Health Organization guidelines , women who
had iodine levels of less than 150 micrograms per gram of
creatinine were classified as being iodine deficient. Children
of such women were more likely to have scores in the lowest
quartile for verbal ability, reading accuracy and reading
comprehension than those whose mothers had sufficient iodine
levels, according to the  study  published today.  The research analyzed urine samples of 1,040 women in the
U.K. in their first trimester and their children’s intelligence
quotient at age 8 and reading ability at 9. While harmful
effects from severe iodine deficiency on brain development is
widely recognized, very few studies have studied the mother-to-child link, Alex Stagnaro-Green of George Washington University
in Washington DC and Elizabeth Pearce of Boston University said
in a comment accompanying the article.  The study “should be regarded as a call to action to
public health policy makers,” Stagnaro-Green and Pearce said.
“Until measures are taken to ensure that iodine needs can be
met by usual dietary sources, pregnant and breastfeeding women
should insist that the prenatal vitamins they are prescribed
contain iodine.”  A limitation of the study is the authors’ use of one urine
sample to measure the mother’s iodine concentration, when 10
samples are usually needed to achieve 20 percent precision,
Stagnaro-Green and Pearce said.  To compensate for this, the researchers also measured
concentration of creatinine, which gives an indication of how
dilute the urine sample is, and presented as a ratio with the
iodine reading, they said.  The study was self-funded by its lead researcher  Margaret
P. Rayman , a professor of nutritional medicine at the University
of Surrey,  England .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  