-- Iran Bars Rafsanjani From Presidential Field of Eight
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2013-05-21T21:26:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/iran-bars-rafsanjani-from-eight-candidate-field.html
Iran ’s election watchdog barred
former President Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani and a close aide
to incumbent  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  from next month’s presidential
vote, limiting the field mostly to loyalist candidates.  Rafsanjani, one of the Islamic republic’s founders and its
president from 1989 to 1997, failed to receive approval from the
Guardian Council, which screens presidential candidates for
their skills and loyalty to the political system, according to a
list published late yesterday by the  Interior Ministry  on state
television’s  website . Ahmadinejad’s ally, Esfandiar Rahim Mashaei, also was barred from the race, according to the report.  With the exclusion of Rafsanjani, the composition of the
rest of the list was “entirely predictable,” Suzanne Maloney,
a senior fellow at the  Brookings Institution ’s Saban Center for
Middle East Policy, said in a phone interview.  “Its exactly the sort of field of candidates that the
Supreme Leader would have concocted had he had his preferences -
- which he does,” Maloney said. Rafsanjani’s elimination
“represents the calculations on the part of the establishment
that his candidacy was more dangerous than whatever response
follows from this move.”  Among those on the eight-person shortlist approved for the
June 14 vote are Ali Akbar Velayati, a foreign policy adviser to
Supreme Leader  Ayatollah Ali Khamenei ; nuclear negotiator Saeed Jalili; and Tehran Mayor Mohammad Baqer Qalibaf, according to
the report. Former Parliamentary Speaker Gholam-Ali Haddad Adel,
former nuclear negotiator Hassan Rohani and Mohsen Rezai, the
secretary of Iran’s Expediency Council, a top arbitration body
were also approved.  Less Divisive  With an economy feeling the strain of international
sanctions imposed to halt its nuclear program, and  Israel  and
the U.S. threatening military action, Iran’s leaders have
signaled they prefer a presidential contest less divisive than
the last one in 2009.  Rafsanjani has been criticized for sympathizing with the
2009 opposition movement, which accused authorities of ballot
fraud to deny a reformist candidate victory. Two of Rafsanjani’s
children were arrested in the past year, and his registration as
a contender earlier this month unleashed a stream of attacks by
opponents accusing him of links to “sedition.”  Iran tightened security in the capital yesterday, deploying
anti-riot units to several main squares in Tehran. About 100
were stationed in the northwestern Sanhat and Sahadat Abad
squares into the night. As many as 40 gathered around the
central Vanak square, armed with batons.  ‘Extremely Loyal’  Iran’s Guardian Council vetted 650 applications to produce
its shortlist. Approved candidates may start official
campaigning from May 24.  Candidates who made it to the list are “extremely loyal to
Khamenei and a few others who are more or less irrelevant,”
said  Trita Parsi , author of “A Single Roll of the Dice: Obama’s
Diplomacy with Iran” and president of the National Iranian-American Council. “This is not so much a fight to get the votes
of the people but to get the vote of Khamenei.”  Rafsanjani, who kept his plans to himself until minutes
before registration closed earlier this month, stole the
limelight from the more consensual candidates, forcing them to
review their electoral strategy.  Ahmadinejad’s Ally  Top officials in recent days had hinted at opposition to
Rafsanjani’s candidacy.  The council’s spokesman, Abbas Ali Kadkhodaei, this week
said Guardians won’t allow candidates to run if they aren’t
physically fit enough for the job, a possible reference to
Rafsanjani’s age. He was born in 1934.  Mashaei, the other high-profile candidate who was
disqualified, is Ahmadinejad’s ally and has portrayed himself as
a nationalist in an effort to tap into some Iranians’ anti-clerical feeling. Mashaei has been attacked by critics as
representing a “current of deviation” from the legacy of the
Islamic Republic.  His prospects also may have been hurt by Ahmadinejad’s
increasingly fraught relations with much of the political
establishment.  Ahmadinejad, who is barred by the constitution from seeking
a third consecutive term, has engaged in public disputes with
senior officials, earning a rebuke from Khamenei. He’s also been
criticized for his handling of the economy.  Inflation (IACIGY)  has surged
as sanctions deprived Iran of hard currency and pushed  oil
output  to the lowest levels since the 1980s.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 