-- Iran Tightens Security Before Vote Shortlist Released
-- B y   Y e g a n e h   S a l e h i   a n d   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2013-05-21T15:06:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/iran-tightens-security-in-tehran-before-releasing-vote-shortlist.html
Iran  has tightened security in the
capital, Tehran, since late yesterday with less than two days to
go before officials announce the shortlist of candidates allowed
to run in next month’s presidential election.  Police including anti-riot units have been deployed to
several main squares in Tehran. About 100 were stationed in the
northwestern Sanhat and Sahadat Abad squares into the night.
Today, as many as 40 gathered around the central Vanak square,
armed with batons.  Iranians will vote on June 14 for a replacement to  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad , who is not eligible to run for a third term. The
Guardian Council, which vets presidential candidates, is set to
submit its approved shortlist to the  Interior Ministry  today,
and the ministry is scheduled to announce that by May 23.  With an economy feeling the strain of international
sanctions imposed to halt its nuclear program, and  Israel  and
the U.S. threatening military action, Iran’s leaders have
signaled they prefer a presidential contest less divisive than
the last one in 2009. Ahmadinejad’s re-election triggered
allegations of ballot fraud to defeat a reformist candidate, and
street protests that were violently crushed.  Rafsanjani Barred  Former President Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani will be
excluded from the shortlist, state-run Mehr news agency reported
today, citing an unofficial list obtained by its correspondent.  Rafsanjani challenged the 2009 crackdown, urging respect
for the opposition and the release of detainees. That helped
sideline him politically, and in the past year two of his
children were jailed on charges of inciting unrest.  Ahmadinejad’s aide, Esfandiar Rahim Mashaei, was also
barred, while eight candidates have been cleared to run by the
Guardian Council, Mehr reported. They will include foreign
policy adviser Ali Akbar Velayati, nuclear negotiator Saeed Jalili, and Tehran mayor Mohammad Baqer Qalibaf, Mehr said.  The Guardian Council was considering more than 600
applications and typically reduces the field to less than a
dozen who are considered to have proved their loyalty to the
Islamic Republic.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yeganeh Salehi in Tehran at 
 yalehi@bloomberg.net ;
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  