-- Irish Say Revised Pay Savings Talks Virtually Complete
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2013-05-21T13:38:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/irish-say-revised-pay-savings-talks-virtually-complete.html
Irish Public Expenditure Minister
Brendan Howlin said the government and leaders of the main labor
unions “virtually ended” talks on a revised plan to shave 1
billion euros ($1.3 billion) from public-sector pay by 2015.  Unions must now forward draft proposals to their members
for consideration, Howlin told reporters in Dublin today. There
are different offers for individual groups of government workers
and in some cases for individual unions, he said.  “I’m asking public servants to walk with this on the final
leg of the path” toward economic recovery, Howlin said. “They
know that they can now make plans for the next three years
without a further” contribution.  Prime Minister  Enda Kenny  suffered his biggest setback last
month when the unions rejected his plans to cut pay for state
employees. His government has since insisted it needs to reduce
its pay and pensions bill by 1 billion euros by 2015 to lower
the deficit to below 3 percent of gross domestic product. The
European Commission forecasts Ireland’s deficit will be the
European Union’s highest this year, at 7.5 percent.  Howlin said he’s confident an agreement would yield the
government’s targeted 300 million euros of savings this year and
that he hopes that there won’t be forced firings.  The government approved legislation today putting in place
pay cuts for public servants earning more than 65,000 euros a
year, the Ministry for Public Expenditure & Reform said in an e-mailed statement. It did not give differences between the
original and new proposals.  Teachers, Nurses  Under the new plan, teachers who lose supervision and
substitution payments under an accord would receive the money
back within five years, the Irish Times newspaper reported
today, citing unnamed sources. While nurses’ working hours would
increase to 39 hours a week from 37 1/2 hours, they would keep
premium payments for Sunday shifts, it said.  Unions voted last month against salary cuts for workers
earning more than 65,000 euros, in the biggest revolt after five
years of spending reductions and tax increases. The government,
which received a 67.5 billion-euro international bailout in
2010, last year completed three-quarters of the 33.4 billion
euros of budget cuts planned to run for eight years through
2015.  Still, the yield on Ireland’s October 2017 bond has fallen
to 2.15 percent from 2.64 percent on April 15, the day before
the last plan was rejected. Irish five-year bond yields spiked
to more than 17 percent in July 2011 after Moody’s Investors
Service cut the nation’s debt rating to Ba1, one level below
investment grade.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  