-- Sympathy for the IRS
-- B y   C l i v e   C r o o k
-- 2013-05-21T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/irs-foul-up-shows-how-bad-laws-breed-good-scandals.html
Much to my surprise, I find myself
sympathizing with the  Internal Revenue Service . Tenderness
toward that agency isn’t my default position. I’m a British
expat living in the U.S., with retirement savings locked up in
the U.K. and other cross-border entanglements -- these small
complications have sometimes caused my dealings with tax
professionals to displace landscape photography as my main and
most expensive pastime. Say “IRS” to me and watch my teeth
grind.  On the other hand, I used to be a civil servant, so I also
understand how stupid laws can create administrative  chaos . The
more I read about the scandal of the IRS and its scrutiny of
conservative groups seeking tax-exempt status, the more
convinced I am that the blame for this mess -- just like the
blame for my having to put down my tripod -- lies almost
entirely with Congress.  Plainly, if IRS officials were systematically
discriminating against conservative groups with the aim of
harassing or suppressing them, that’s outrageous, not to mention
criminal. If this was going on at the direction or with the
knowledge of the White House, then the scandal rises, of course,
to Watergate proportions. But there’s no evidence of any such
system or conspiracy, and the idea seems improbable. What we do
have, though, are tax laws so complex, and so muddled with the
regulation of political spending, that straightforward
enforcement is almost impossible.  Big Mistake  The rules controlling tax-exempt status for any kind of
nonprofit group are bewildering enough (if you have a few days
to kill, try making sense of the IRS’s  nontechnical guide  to the
issue). Yet the intersection of these rules with equally arcane
U.S. campaign-finance laws raises the problem to a whole other
level. Congress made the really big mistake in all this by
mixing the two. Administration of the  tax code  should be kept
separate from regulation of money in politics.  The controversy centers on 501(c)(4) nonprofit groups. This
designation denies groups the main benefit of ordinary
charitable status -- the right to collect tax-deductible
contributions -- but provides some other tax advantages. It also
allows unlimited political lobbying (which is restricted for
charities) and some electioneering (which charities can’t do at
all). Maybe most important, when it comes to explaining why the
designation has proved popular, 501(c)(4)s don’t have to
disclose their donors.  Congress, not the IRS, decided to condition that last and
most precious benefit on the organization’s tax status. There’s
no logical connection. Political organizations are typically
not-for-profit enterprises, whether they’re campaigning on
issues or supporting or opposing candidates. They don’t exist to
make money, so the taxes they might or might not be paying
aren’t the point. If Congress wants to regulate their activities
-- for instance, by requiring them to disclose donor names --
that shouldn’t turn on whether they’ve been recognized by the
IRS as tax-exempt.  A prominent line of commentary on this issue is that
political organizations have been masquerading as social-welfare
organizations, which is what 501(c)(4)s are loosely called, and
improperly avoiding tax. This is wrong twice over. In a
democracy, political organizations are social-welfare
organizations: They qualify in the necessary sense that they are
devoted to advancing (their idea of) social welfare. Because
they don’t exist to generate surplus income for distribution to
owners, the tax issue is secondary anyway.  Wrong Agency  To be sure, Congress can choose to give different kinds of
social-welfare organizations different kinds of tax advantages.
If it wants to do that, it should write clearer rules, and not
force the IRS to exercise discretion over issues such as some
electioneering is all right, but not too much. The main thing,
though, is this: The tax status, whatever it’s deemed to be,
should be irrelevant to the regulation of money in politics --
in this case, the disclosure of donors. That’s an entirely
separate matter. The IRS should have nothing to do with it, and
be seen as having nothing to do with it. Regulating money in
politics is the job of the  Federal Election Commission .  It wouldn’t hurt, in my view, to abolish the 501(c)(4)
outright. It’s a needless complication. Congress should say you
can be a charity or a political organization, but not something
in between. The  Sierra Club  or the political arm of the  National
Rifle Association  -- two prominent 501(c)(4)s -- would have to
choose whether to be charities, with the limits that imposes on
lobbying and campaigning, or 527 issue-advocacy groups, with the
disclosure obligations that entails.  By itself, obviously, that wouldn’t achieve the separation
between rules on taxes and rules on campaign financing that I’m
suggesting, but it would be a step in the right direction. It
would also make the IRS’s job a bit easier -- and, as you know,
I’m for that.  (Clive Crook is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Clive Crook at  ccrook5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net . 