-- Littoral Combat Ships Backed by House Defense Panel
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-05-21T18:51:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/littoral-combat-ships-backed-by-house-defense-panel.html
A House defense panel has agreed with
the U.S. Navy’s request to buy four additional Littoral Combat
Ships in the fiscal year starting Oct. 1.  The House Armed Services Committee’s seapower panel
endorsed continued production of two ships each of versions made
by  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  and  Austal Ltd. (ASB)   The $37 billion program to buy 52 vessels continues to face
questions about its mission, cost, vulnerability and manning. A
confidential Navy study, obtained this month by  Bloomberg News ,
found that the ships, intended for missions close to shore, are
too lightly armed, that plans to swap equipment for different
missions are impractical and that the decision to build two
versions complicates logistics and maintenance.  The subcommittee released an outline of its proposal for
the naval elements of the annual defense authorization bill
today, 24 hours before meeting to approve it, as is the practice
of the armed services panels. The full committee is scheduled to
act on the subcommittee proposal June 5.  While the panel didn’t release specifics on each program,
the chairman, Representative Randy Forbes, a Virginia
Republican, cited the combat ship as among the vessels included,
in an e-mailed statement.  A steel-hulled version of the Littoral Combat Ship is being
made in Marinette,  Wisconsin , by a team led by Bethesda,
Maryland-based Lockheed, while an aluminum trimaran is being
built in Mobile,  Alabama , by the group led by Henderson,
Australia-based Austal.  Failure to resolve issues raised in the confidential study
will result in “ships that are ill-suited to execute”
warfighting needs, Rear Admiral Samuel Perez wrote in the March
2012 report.  Officials led by Navy Secretary Ray Mabus said this month
that changes in the ship already are under way to resolve the
shortcomings cited by Perez. While the Littoral Combat Ship
started out as a “mess,” it has “become one of our best-performing programs,” Mabus told the House defense
appropriations subcommittee on May 7.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  