-- Japan Stock Futures Climb Before Central Bank Meeting Concludes
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2013-05-21T23:19:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/japan-stock-futures-climb-before-central-bank-meeting-concludes.html
Japanese  stock futures  climbed,
indicating the Topix Index will extend its highest level since
August 2008 before the  Bank of Japan  concludes a two-day policy
meeting.  American Depositary Receipts of  Sony Corp. (6758)  rose 8.5 percent
from the close of trading in Tokyo after Japan’s Nikkei
newspaper reported the company’s board may discuss spinning off
its entertainment division. ADRs of Honda Motor Co. gained 0.7
percent as exporters climbed amid forecasts the Bank of Japan
will maintain stimulus plans as its meeting ends.  Futures on Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  expiring next
month traded at 15,460 in Chicago yesterday, up from 15,400 at
the close in Osaka, Japan. They were bid in the pre-market at
15,480 in Osaka at 8:05 a.m. local time. Futures on Australia’s
S&P/ASX 200 Index retreated 0.1 percent and New Zealand’s NZX 50
Index gained 0.1 percent.  “It is a fairly big day ahead for the yen, with the BOJ
set to hit the wires,” said Stan Shamu, a market strategist at
IG Markets Ltd. in Melbourne, a trading services provider.
“This is likely to be the key event in Asia today and will have
an impact on the whole risk space. With no policy change
expected, traders will be looking for comments regarding efforts
to stabilize the  bond market .”  Futures on  Hong Kong ’s Hang Seng Index and contracts on the
Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of mainland Chinese companies
trading in Hong Kong both retreated 0.3 percent. The Bloomberg
China-US Equity Index of the most-traded Chinese shares in the
U.S. dropped 1 percent in New York yesterday. The start of
trading in Hong Kong will be delayed due to a “black”
rainstorm warning issued by the city’s observatory.  Relative Value  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index, the benchmark regional
equities gauge, surged 11 percent this year through yesterday as
U.S. economic data improved and Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo
Abe took steps to counter deflation.  That left the gauge trading at 14.2 times average estimated
earnings compared with 15.2 for the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX) 
and 13.6 times for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index were little
changed. The gauge climbed 0.2 percent yesterday, to a record,
after Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis President  James Bullard 
said the central bank should continue its bond buying to boost
economic growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  