-- JPMorgan Shareholders Reject CEO-Chairman Split in Win for Dimon
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 2013-05-21T15:59:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/jpmorgan-shareholders-reject-ceo-chairman-split-in-win-for-dimon.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  Chief Executive
Officer  Jamie Dimon  won shareholder support to remain chairman,
surviving a campaign to split the roles after a record trading
loss at the biggest U.S. bank.  The proposal to divide Dimon’s duties won 32.2 percent of
the votes, down from 40 percent last year, the bank said today
at its annual meeting in Tampa,  Florida . Dimon, 57, had told
some investors he might quit if the non-binding measure passed,
according to a person with knowledge of the conversation, who
requested anonymity because the discussion was private.  The vote to back Dimon, who guided JPMorgan to three
straight years of  record profit , is a defeat for investors who
say companies need the balance of a separate chairman and CEO.
While Dimon can keep both jobs, the vote may spur JPMorgan’s
directors to tighten how they oversee the company after
last year’s $6.2 billion “London Whale” trading loss and
identify a future successor.  “JPMorgan changes after this annual meeting season, even
if all the votes go in the direction” JPMorgan wanted,  Michael Mayo , an analyst at CLSA Ltd., told Bloomberg Television’s  Erik
Schatzker  in Tampa today. The bank could give more authority to
lead director Lee R. Raymond, the former chairman and CEO of
Exxon Mobil Corp., or split Dimon’s roles after he leaves, a
person with knowledge of the matter said.  Still Pressing  The board also might alter its own makeup even among those
who won re-election, with Raymond telling investors today that
the risk committee may get new faces.  “In terms of the composition of the risk committee, you
should stay tuned,” he said during the meeting.  If directors wind up with less than 60 percent of the
vote, “I don’t think they will keep them in the face of such
stark shareholder disapproval,” said Bill Patterson, the former
director at the CtW Investment Group advisory firm and now a
consultant.  The AFSCME Employees Pension Plan, which was among
investors sponsoring the vote to separate Dimon’s jobs, will
keep pressing the bank for a more independent chairman, said
Lisa Lindsley, director of capital strategies at the Washington-based union group.  The proposal drew more attention after last year’s trading
loss at the London-based chief investment office, which the
board blamed partly on Dimon and spurred directors to cut his
pay by 50 percent.  Key Man  “We do not see this measure as a panacea, but rather a
badly needed first step to strengthen the board,” Lindsley told
Dimon at today’s meeting. While the vote wasn’t a referendum on
his leadership, Lindsley criticized the firm for its lack of
succession planning. “No one person should be indispensable,”
she said. AFSCME says it represents about 1.6 million members.  The threat of Dimon’s departure caused some analysts to
predict the stock could fall 10 percent or more in the absence
of a clearly identified replacement.  “If an operation the size of JPMorgan depends on one
person, that is itself a sign of board failure,” said  Erik Gordon , a business and law professor at the  University of
Michigan  in  Ann Arbor . The company’s lack of rebuttal shows
“there is no strong independent lead director, there is no
strong special committee or independent group on the board
that’s looking out for the interests of shareholders,” he said.  JPMorgan’s first priority is developing a “competent and
capable successor,” Raymond said. “I hope that time is much
into the future and I have no illusions that we will be able to
clone Jamie,” he said. Dimon attributed turnover in his top
ranks in part to the board pressing him to put people in tough
jobs to see if they could be future CEOs.  Goldman’s Example  The last time shareholders of a large U.S. bank opted for
divided oversight was in April 2009, when Bank of America Corp.
investors voted to strip the chairman’s title from CEO  Kenneth Lewis  in the aftermath of the Merrill Lynch & Co. takeover and
federal bailout. Lewis had no successor in place when he
announced later that year he would step down as CEO.  Lloyd C. Blankfein, chairman and CEO of Goldman Sachs Group
Inc., avoided a similar vote on his firm’s proxy statement this
year by agreeing with CtW Investment Group to expand the duties
of lead independent director  James Schiro .  Calls for Dimon to cede the chairmanship mounted since last
May, when JPMorgan disclosed lapses in  risk controls  at its
chief investment office that led to last year’s losses on
derivatives. Bruno Iksil, the trader who made the bets, was
nicknamed the London Whale because his position was so big.  Dimon’s Allies  Dimon received backing from investors including Home Depot
Inc. founder Ken Langone, who called the banker the “finest”
CEO in the U.S., and billionaire  Warren Buffett , the Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. chairman and CEO who has described Dimon’s annual
letter to shareholders as a must-read.  Raymond and former Johnson & Johnson Chairman and CEO
William C. Weldon, who heads the bank’s corporate governance and
nominating committee, publicly lobbied for Dimon, writing in
their first-ever direct appeal to shareholders that splitting
the chairman and CEO jobs “could be disruptive” and against
the best interests of investors.  “An inflexible approach to the question of whether one
person can serve as both chairman and CEO is not the right
answer,” the men wrote in a May 10 letter.  Proxy advisers at Glass Lewis & Co. and Institutional
Shareholder Services advised investors to vote for a separate
chairman as well as to oust some directors.  Risk Panel  Both recommended that shareholders oppose re-election of
the three of the board’s four risk-committee members, including
David M. Cote, CEO of Honeywell International Inc., James S. Crown, president of Henry Crown & Co. and Ellen V. Futter,
president of the  American Museum of Natural History  in  New York .
Futter was the lone board member absent from today’s meeting.  Glass Lewis also had urged shareholders to vote against all
three members of JPMorgan’s audit committee: James A. Bell,
former chief financial officer at Boeing Co., Crandall C. Bowles, chairman of Springs Industries Inc., and Laban P. Jackson, CEO of Clear Creek Properties Inc.  Incumbent directors who fail to win enough votes in an
uncontested election must resign immediately, according to
JPMorgan’s  bylaws . The board, through a process managed by the
corporate-governance committee, must decide whether to accept
the resignation at its next regularly scheduled board meeting,
the bylaws show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  