-- Kasowitz Benson, Eversheds, Latham: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-05-22T10:45:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/kasowitz-benson-eversheds-latham-davis-business-of-law.html
Kasowitz, Benson, Torres & Friedman
LLP hired insurance recovery litigators Jerold Oshinsky and
Linda Kornfeld from Jenner & Block LLP as partners to open the
firm’s Los Angeles office.  Oshinsky was Jenner’s co-chairman of the insurance
litigation and counseling practice. Kornfeld will head
Kasowitz’s Los Angeles office. The two new partners join the
insurance recovery group.  “Jerry continues to pioneer many of the legal theories
that underlie insurance recovery law today, and Linda has
repeatedly proven her ability to obtain winning results for her
clients in high-stakes cases,” Robin Cohen, who leads
Kasowitz’s insurance recovery group, said in a statement. “With
their arrival, we will continue to expand nationally, while
exploring new, creative strategies to meet our clients’ needs in
the rapidly evolving insurance area.”  Oshinsky and Kornfeld have recently focused on issues
relating to cyber liability, intellectual property, antitrust
and sexual abuse claims, as well as natural disaster cases
related to earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, tornadoes and storms
such as Superstorm Sandy, the firm said.  Kasowitz, Benson has more than 375 lawyers, primarily
focusing on complex commercial litigation. The firm has eight
U.S. offices.  Eversheds Starts Beijing Office with Two New Partner Hires  Eversheds LLP started a Beijing office yesterday with
corporate energy lawyer Ingrid Zhu-Clark and corporate lawyer
Jay Ze. Zhu-Clark joins Eversheds from Morgan Lewis & Bockius
LLP, where she was co-managing partner of the Beijing office.
She will head the Beijing office for Eversheds. Ze was
previously at Uria Menendez.  Zhu-Clark’s practice is focused on the international oil
and gas sector, in particular representing Chinese clients in
outbound investment matters across multiple jurisdictions
including  Russia , Central Asia and  Africa , the firm said in a
statement.  Ze handles cross-border M&A working with state-owned
enterprises, global companies and investments banks, the firm
said.  “In the past five years, since the launch of our first
office in the region, Asia has been a significant and growing
market for Eversheds,” Stephen Kitts, Eversheds’ Asia managing
partner said in a statement. “We are confident that the
recruitment of high caliber M&A experts like Ingrid and Jay will
build on our success.”  Eversheds has more than 4,500 employees at 44 international
offices in 26 jurisdictions.  King & Wood Mallesons’  Australia  Head Steps Down After 13 Years  Tony O’Malley, King & Wood Mallesons’ managing partner of
the law firm’s Australian offices, agreed to resign immediately
and will retire as a partner at the end of 2013.  King & Wood Mallesons’ board has formed a subcommittee to
replace O’Malley with a new managing partner for Australia
expected to be named in two or three weeks, Stuart Fuller, the
firm’s global managing partner, said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday. O’Malley had been with the firm for 13 years, it
said.  King & Wood and Mallesons Stephen Jaques combined last year
to form Asia’s biggest law firm, which now has about 2,200 legal
professionals.  Fuller gave no reason for O’Malley’s resignation in the
statement.  O’Malley’s departure was  reported  earlier by the Australian
Financial Review.  Deals  Latham Advises Actavis on Warner Chilcott Purchase  Latham & Watkins LLP advised  Actavis Inc. (ACT) , the largest U.S.
maker of generic drugs by market value, which agreed to acquire
 Warner Chilcott Plc (WCRX)  for about $5 billion excluding net debt in a
deal to expand in women’s health and urology. Davis Polk &
Wardwell LLP advises Warner Chilcott.  Latham’s team was led by Orange County partners Scott Shean
and Charles Ruck. Advice was also provided by New York partner
Stephen Amdur on M&A; Brussels/Washington partner Michael Egge,
on antitrust; Washington partner Nicholas DeNovio and Los
Angeles partner Laurence Stein on tax; Los Angeles partner James Barrall on employee benefits; Los Angeles partner David Schindler on compliance; and New York partners Wesley Holmes and
Daniel Seale on finance matters.  The Davis Polk corporate team includes partners Michael Davis and H. Oliver Smith. Partners Edmond T. FitzGerald,
executive compensation advice; Michael Mollerus, tax; Michael Kaplan, capital markets; Joel M. Cohen, antitrust and
competition advice. Arthur Cox & Co. is advising Warner Chilcott
as to matters of Irish law.  Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver & Jacobson LLP represented
Bank of America Merrill Lynch and Greenhill & Company, financial
advisers to Actavis. The Fried Frank team included corporate
partners Philip Richter, Abigail Bomba and Richard May and tax
partner Alan Kaden.  Warner Chilcott investors will receive 0.16 shares of new
Actavis stock for each Warner Chilcott share they own,
Parsippany, New Jersey-based Actavis said in a statement
yesterday. The agreement currently values each Warner Chilcott
share at $20.08, a 4.5 percent premium over the stock’s closing
price on May 17. Including Warner Chilcott’s more than $3
billion in net debt, the total value of the acquisition is about
$8.5 billion.  The combined company will have $11 billion in annual
revenue as Actavis also adds gastroenterology and dermatology
businesses, according to yesterday’s statement. The purchase
also may provide Actavis with a $4-a-share tax benefit because
Warner Chilcott is incorporated in Ireland, Leerink Swann LLC
said. Actavis rejected an offer from Mylan Inc. for $15 billion,
deciding instead to pursue talks to take over Warner Chilcott,
said people familiar with the matter, Bloomberg News reported on
May 14.  For more, click here.  Simpson Thacher Advises Yahoo on $1.1 Billion Tumblr Purchase  Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP is representing  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO) 
in buying blogging network Tumblr Inc. for about $1.1 billion as
Chief Executive Officer Marissa Mayer seeks to lure users and
advertisers with her priciest acquisition to date. Gunderson
Dettmer Stough Villeneuve Franklin & Hachigian LLP advised
Tumblr.  Simpson Thacher corporate partner Gary Horowitz is leading
the team for Yahoo. Additional partners include Kirsten Jensen,
mergers and acquisitions, Katharine Moir, tax, and Tristan Brown, executive compensation and employee benefits. Additional
lawyers who worked on the deal are Sean Crnkovitch, Andrew
Nightingale, Cara Walsh and Linda Barrett.  Latham & Watkins LLP partners Hanno Kaiser in San
Francisco, Amanda Reeves in  Washington , and Susanne Zuehlke in
Brussels are advising Yahoo on regulatory matters related to the
deal.  Gunderson partners on the deal included Ward Breeze, Steven
Baglio and Daniel Goldberg in New York.  Tumblr, based in New York, will continue to host its more
than 108 million blogs, while CEO and founder David Karp, 26,
will remain in charge of the website, “per the agreement and
our promise not to screw it up,” Sunnyvale, California-based
Yahoo said yesterday in a statement.  Mayer, CEO of the biggest U.S. Web portal since July, is
betting that Tumblr will help transform Yahoo into a hip
destination in the era of social networking as she challenges
 Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Facebook Inc. (FB)  in the $17.7 billion display ad
 market . The price she’s paying -- about a fifth of Yahoo’s $5.4
billion in cash -- underscores the deal’s importance to Mayer’s
turnaround effort, according to  Zachary Reiss-Davis , an analyst
at Forrester Research Inc.  For more, click here.  Cooley Advises Websense on $906 Million Private-Equity Buyout  Cooley LLP was legal adviser to  Websense Inc. (WBSN) , a website-filtering company that is shifting into Internet security and
will be acquired by private-equity firm  Vista Equity Partners 
for about $906 million. Kirkland & Ellis LLP was Vista’s legal
adviser.  Cooley partners included Barbara Borden, Al Browne, Thomas Welk, Francis Fryscak and Michael Tollini.  The Kirkland team includes corporate partners David Breach,
Daniel Wolf, Stuart Casillas and Joshua Zachariah, and debt
finance partner Francesco Penati.  Websense’s in-house lawyers on the deal include its general
counsel Christian Waage and Kirk Tyree, a former Cooley
associate.  Websense investors will receive $24.75 a share in cash, a
premium of about 29 percent over the stock’s closing price on
its last trading day, according to a statement yesterday. The
deal will turn the San Diego company into a closely held
business. JPMorgan Chase & Co., RBC Capital Markets and
Guggenheim Partners are providing debt financing for the
transaction.  The company is trying to transition from its roots blocking
inappropriate websites in the workplace -- described by Chief
Executive Officer John McCormack as the “porn-filtering
market” -- into a provider of broader online-security services.
Vista, an Austin, Texas-based firm that specializes in
technology investments, will help bring “operational
discipline” to the company, McCormack said in the statement.  For more, click here.  Moves  O’Melveny Hires Another Cadwalader Bankruptcy Lawyer  O’Melveny & Myers LLP announced that Zachary H. Smith has
joined the firm’s restructuring practice as a partner in New
York. Smith joins from Cadwalader Wickersham & Taft LLP, in the
wake of the recent departures of John J. Rapisardi and George A. Davis, former co-chairmen of Cadwalader’s global financial
restructuring department, and former Cadwalader partner Peter M.
Friedman, all of whom joined O’Melveny.  Smith represents debtors, creditors, lenders and strategic
investors in in-court and out-of-court restructurings. He has
been the lead lawyer representing Vertis Inc., advising the
company through its chapter 11 proceeding, the firm said. He
also was a member of the team that was outside counsel to the
U.S. Treasury Department and Presidential Task Force on General
Motors’ restructuring.  O’Melveny has about 800 lawyers in 16 offices in the U.S.,
Europe and Asia.  Video  Supreme Court Bar Lacks Diversity, Associated Press Says  While the Supreme Court has three female justices, a
Hispanic and an African-American, the lawyers appearing before
it are almost all white males.  According to the Associated Press, during the roughly 75
hours of oral arguments this term, an African-American lawyer
spoke one time, for just 11 minutes. Four Hispanic lawyers spoke
for less than 2 hours, while female lawyers accounted for just
17 percent of the arguments.  Women who do appear tend to have lower paying jobs as
public interest lawyers, government lawyers, or public
defenders. Ten men from law firms have argued two or more cases
this term. Arnold & Porter LLP’s Lisa Blatt is the only woman to
do the same.  The Justice Department’s Office of the Solicitor General is
a leading pipeline to the big law firms that handle High Court
cases. While men hold the top supervisory positions there, six
women from the office argued before the Court this term.  To see the video, click here.  Are Political Intelligence Practice Groups Too Risky?  Robert Walker, attorney at Wiley Rein LLP, talks with
Bloomberg Law’s Lee Pacchia about the legal and ethical
implications of law firms selling political intelligence. Last
month, the SEC issued subpoenas to Greenberg Traurig LLP as part
of their investigation into the law firm’s political
intelligence practice. Although the firm has denied wrongdoing,
Greenberg Traurig has recently stated that it will no longer
work in the political intelligence space.  This is a Bloomberg podcast. To download, watch or listen
to this report now, click here.  News  U.S. Attorney Leaked Memo to Undermine Fast and Furious Concerns  A federal prosecutor involved in the botched gun operation
known as Fast and Furious gave an internal memo to the news
media, possibly to undermine a federal agent’s criticisms, the
Justice Department’s inspector general  said .  Dennis Burke, then the U.S. attorney for  Arizona , in 2011
provided a memo written by John Dodson, a special agent with the
Bureau of Alcohol, Firearms, Tobacco and Explosives, to a Fox
News reporter. Burke wasn’t authorized to release the memo and
may have intentionally given it to the press to damage Dodson,
according to a 23-page report from Michael Horowitz, the Justice
Department’s inspector general.  “We believe this misconduct to be particularly egregious
because of Burke’s apparent effort to undermine the credibility
of Dodson’s significant public disclosures about the failures in
Operation Fast and Furious,” said the report, which was
released yesterday.  Dodson was one of the first law enforcement officials to
publicly criticize operations where agents allowed guns to
“walk” -- be purchased by straw buyers and cross into  Mexico .
The operations were intended to lead law enforcement to
individuals in Mexican drug cartels, which utilize straw
purchasers to get guns for their organizations.  One of the operations, known as Fast and Furious, became a
focal point for  congressional investigators  as they sought to
identify the origins and driving forces behind the program.  The inspector general’s office referred its findings to the
Justice Department’s Office of Professional Responsibility for a
determination of whether the conduct “violated the Rules of
Professional Conduct for the state bars in which Burke is a
member,” according to the report.  Burke, through his lawyers, acknowledged in 2011 that he
provided the memo in which Dodson proposed to work undercover as
a straw purchaser of firearms. Burke gave it to the Fox News
reporter to “give context to information that the reporter
already had,” according to a letter sent to the Justice
Department’s inspector general by Lee Stein, one of Burke’s
lawyers, in November of that year.  Burke resigned as U.S. attorney in August 2011. Chuck
Rosenberg, another lawyer for Burke, declined to comment on the
inspector general’s report.  Horowitz released a 471-page report last year outlining
management failures at the ATF and the Justice Department as
part of the operation that lost track of about 2,000 guns
purchased by straw buyers. Two of those guns were found at the
scene of the 2010 killing in Arizona of U.S. Border Patrol Agent
Brian Terry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in  Brooklyn , New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 