-- Kerry Heads to Mideast to Push Peace From Syria to Israel
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2013-05-21T02:53:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/kerry-heads-to-mideast-to-push-peace-from-syria-to-israel.html
U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry 
will try during a weeklong Mideast tour to bring Syria’s warring
parties to peace talks and to revive negotiations for a two-state agreement between Israel and the Palestinians.  In  Oman  today, his first stop, Kerry will meet Sultan
Qaboos bin Said al-Said to discuss efforts to persuade the
Syrian regime and opposition to agree on a cease-fire and
transitional government to end a conflict that has taken more
than 70,000 lives over the past two years, according to United
Nations estimates.  The discussions on Syria come with President  Barack Obama 
under increasing pressure from some U.S. lawmakers to do more to
bring down Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s government. White
House officials have cited the dangers of deeper involvement,
including getting drawn into another war and seeing U.S. weapons
fall into the hands of anti-U.S. extremists.  Kerry’s meeting with bin al Said takes place a day before
another meeting in Amman, Jordan, with senior representatives
from 11 nations -- including the U.K., France, Turkey,  Saudi
Arabia  and Qatar -- that are providing humanitarian or military
support to opponents of Assad.  Syrian opposition leaders haven’t been invited to the
meeting in Amman. Some of them have said they expect the U.S.
and its allies to forge a common position and to try to persuade
competing opposition factions to attend a peace conference
proposed by Kerry and Russian Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov .
Russia, which has its only naval base outside the former  Soviet
Union  in Syria, has sold billions of dollars in arms to Syria
and backed Assad’s regime in the 26-month conflict.  Emergency Meeting  Opposition leaders, who are to meet May 23 in Istanbul to
choose a new leader, have rejected the notion of any peace
conference that would include Assad or his inner circle.  The opposition is pressing the  Arab League  to call an
emergency meeting on the war. Even as France and Britain have
pushed for increasing support to the rebels and suspending a
European arms embargo that bars weapons sales to Syrians,
President Barack Obama has been reluctant to give military
support to anti-Assad forces.  “There’s got to be a transition to full executive
authority to a transitional governing body, and that will be
determined through mutual consent on both sides,” Patrick Ventrell, a State Department spokesman, said in a briefing in
Washington yesterday.  Reviving Talks  Kerry visits Jerusalem and the West Bank for meetings with
Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  and Palestinian leader
 Mahmoud Abbas  in a bid to revive peace talks that have been
stalled for two years. He also will travel to  Addis Ababa ,
 Ethiopia , for an African Union conference.  In his meeting today with the sultan of Oman, Kerry will
also discuss neighboring  Iran , with which Oman maintains good
relations. Issues of concern include Iranian military and
financial support for Assad’s regime and the U.S. desire to
secure the freedom of two American citizens imprisoned in Iran -
- former U.S. Marine Amir Hekmati and pastor Saeed Abedini --
and a third,  Robert Levinson , who disappeared in the country
several years ago, the State Department official said.  Oman played a critical role in negotiations that won the
release of three American hikers detained by Iran after they
accidentally strayed across the Iraq-Iran border in 2009.  Kerry will also highlight Oman’s intent to buy an estimated
$2.1 billion air defense system from American contractor
 Raytheon Co. (RTN) , State Department officials told reporters
traveling with Kerry. Representatives from the Waltham,
Massachusetts-based company are expected to sign a letter of
intent with Oman’s government during Kerry’s visit  Defense Upgrade  While details of the deal to buy a ground-based air defense
system are yet to be completed, one State Department official
said the sale would upgrade the Oman’s ability to defend its
critical infrastructure from unmanned aerial vehicles and cruise
missiles.  The officials, who asked not to be quoted by name because
of diplomatic protocol, said the deal will further integrate
defensive systems among U.S.-allied Gulf states. Raytheon
spokesman Jon Kasle declined to offer additional details after
the remarks by U.S. officials.  Kerry intends to highlight the planned sale as an example
of the importance of U.S. exports to creating jobs at home, one
U.S. official said. In December 2011 Oman placed an order for 12
F-16 jet fighters from  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  that was part of an
18-jet package the Pentagon notified Congress about in August
2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira Lakshmanan in Shannon, Ireland at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott in Washington at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  