-- Kerry Seeks Backing in Jordan for Syria Peace Talks
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2013-05-21T21:15:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/kerry-seeks-backing-in-jordan-for-syria-peace-talks.html
U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry 
heads to Jordan today for talks with Mideast and European allies
to promote a negotiated end to the crisis in Syria, as
government and rebel forces battle for control of the strategic
city of Al-Qusair.  Kerry will press leaders from 10 other nations providing
humanitarian or military support to the Syrian opposition --
including the U.K.,  France , Turkey, Saudi Arabia and Qatar -- to
back a U.S.-Russian effort to persuade Syria’s government and
rebels to come together for negotiations next month toward a
cease-fire and establishing a transitional government.  The meeting in Amman will include consultations about aid
provided by various countries to opposition forces and the
humanitarian crisis in Syria that has spread to neighboring
nations, according to a State Department official who briefed
reporters traveling with Kerry on condition of not being named.  The 26-month conflict between forces loyal to President
Bashar al-Assad and Syrian rebels has taken more than 70,000
lives and created more than 1.5 million refugees, according to
United Nations estimates.  Government fighter planes and heavy artillery pounded
rebel-held Al-Qusair yesterday, bringing the death toll from
three days of clashes to more than 90, according to the U.K.-
based Syrian Observatory for  Human Rights .  Held Accountable  The U.S. is concerned about a possible massacre in Al-Qusair of Sunni Muslim civilians opposed to Assad. The U.S.
official who briefed reporters cited the slaughter of several
hundred civilians that he said was committed by regime militias
in the nearby town of  Banias . The official said the world is
watching and will hold Assad’s forces accountable for any such
atrocities.  Meanwhile, an opposition commander yesterday threatened to
wipe communities inhabited by minority Shiite Muslims and
Assad’s Alawite sect “off the map” in retaliation if Al-Qusair
falls to government forces and pro-rebel Sunni civilians are
massacred.  “We don’t want this to happen, but it will be a reality
imposed on everyone,” Colonel Abdel-Hamid Zakaria, a spokesman
for the Free Syrian Army in  Turkey , told Al-Arabiya television
May 20. “It’s going to be an open, sectarian, bloody war to the
end.”  Al-Qusair is close to the highway linking Damascus to the
coast and has been a conduit for weapons flowing through Lebanon
to the anti-Assad rebels.  Foreign Fighters  The Obama administration is also concerned by opposition
reports of foreign combatants. Free Syrian Army rebels say
fighters from  Iran  and the Lebanese militant group Hezbollah are
on the battlefield in Al-Qusair aiding Syrian government forces,
according to the U.S. diplomat.  Hezbollah and Shiite-led Iran have been key allies of
Assad’s government, whose upper ranks come from the Alawite
sect, derived from Shiite Islam. Leaders of the rebel army and
political opposition are mostly Sunni, and are backed by Sunni
powers such as Saudi Arabia and Turkey, which have supplied
weapons to the opposition forces.  Saudi Arabia’s Crown Prince and Defense Minister Salman Bin Abdul Aziz met yesterday with Turkey’s President  Abdullah Gul 
and Foreign Minister  Ahmet Davutoglu , according to Turkey’s
state-run Anatolia news agency.  Assisting Opposition  The talks on Syria come as President  Barack Obama  faces
increasing pressure from some U.S. lawmakers to do more to bring
down Assad’s government. The Senate Foreign Relations Committee,
on a 15-3 vote, approved a bill yesterday that would allow the
U.S. to arm Syrian rebels.  White House officials have cited the dangers of deeper
involvement, including getting drawn into another war and seeing
U.S. weapons fall into the hands of anti-U.S. extremists.  Some Syrian opposition leaders have said they expect the
U.S. and its allies to forge a common position and to try to
persuade competing opposition factions to attend a peace
conference proposed by Kerry and Russian Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov .  Russia , which has its only naval base outside the former
Soviet Union in Syria, has sold billions of dollars in arms to
Syria as part of its backing for Assad’s regime.  Some opposition leaders, who are to meet Thursday in
Istanbul to choose a new leadership, have said they won’t attend
a peace conference that includes Assad or his inner circle.  Golan Heights  In one sign of the danger the Syrian crisis poses to
neighboring states, Israeli troops fired into Syria overnight
after shots from across the border struck a military vehicle
patrolling the Golan Heights, the Israeli army said in an e-mailed statement.  Kerry met with Oman’s Sultan Qaboos bin Said al-Said
yesterday at the start of his weeklong tour of the  Middle East 
and Africa, discussing Syria as well as neighboring Iran, with
which Oman maintains good relations.  Later this week, Kerry will visit  Jerusalem  and the West
Bank for meetings with Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu 
and Palestinian leader  Mahmoud Abbas  in a bid to revive peace
talks that have been stalled for two years. He also will travel
to Addis Ababa,  Ethiopia , for an African Union conference.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Musc, Oman at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  