-- KidsPeace Files Bankruptcy Blaming Government Cuts
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2013-05-21T21:07:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/kidspeace-files-bankruptcy-blaming-government-cuts.html
KidsPeace Corp., the owner of a
nonprofit psychiatric hospital for teenagers in  Pennsylvania ,
filed for bankruptcy blaming government spending cuts.  The company will try to use bankruptcy to reduce its bond
debt to $24 million from $51.3 million and to trim pension
obligations that may exceed $100 million, according to an
affidavit filed today by Chief Executive Officer William R.
Isemann.  KidsPeace owes creditors more than $100 million and has
assets valued at less than $50 million, according to its Chapter
11 petition in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Reading, Pennsylvania.
The company was financially sound until 2008, Isemann said in
court papers.  “In more recent years, however, the debtors, like many
other organizations in their field, have faced increased
challenges,” he said.  The U.S. federal and state Medicaid program, which provides
health insurance to poor children, cut reimbursement rates. The
program is the company’s biggest source of revenue. States that
send troubled teens to the hospital and other facilities also
cut back, the company said in court papers.  Orphanage Roots  KidsPeace, based in Orefield, Pennsylvania, traces its
roots to an orphanage founded in 1882. The company and its eight
units have more than 750 employees, including nurses, doctors
and teachers. The 96-bed hospital provides inpatient psychiatric
care to children and adults 21 and younger.  The company’s juvenile-justice program in  Minnesota  and
residential treatment centers in Pennsylvania, Maine and  Georgia 
serve children with a variety of psychiatric disorders.  Revenue was $119.9 million and expenses totaled
$124.5 million last year as KidsPeace posted a loss of
$3.1 million, according to court papers.  The case is In Re KidsPeace Corp., 13-14508, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Eastern District of Pennsylvania (Reading).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Farr at 
 sfarr@bloomberg.net  