-- Knicks’ Grunwald Says Team’s Future Is Bright After Elimination
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-05-21T18:26:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/knicks-grunwald-says-team-s-future-is-bright-after-elimination.html
New York Knicks General Manager Glen Grunwald said that the future is bright for the team with this
season’s oldest National Basketball Association roster, which
lost in the second round of the playoffs to the Indiana Pacers.  The Knicks finished the regular season 54-28, their highest
win total in 16 years, and won a playoff series for the first
time since 2000. Grunwald, coach Mike Woodson and Knicks players
expressed optimism yesterday and today that they could build off
what they accomplished this season.  “We’re all disappointed in how the season ended, but we’re
not discouraged,” Grunwald told reporters today at the team’s
practice facility in Tarrytown, New York. “We’re very excited
about the opportunity here and the team that we assembled.”  New York will have limited financial flexibility to make
roster changes, with at least seven players signed through the
next two seasons, including almost $60 million per year in
salary allotted to 28-year-old Carmelo Anthony and two 30-year-olds, Amar’e Stoudemire and Tyson Chandler. The league’s luxury
tax threshold this season was $70.3 million, meaning teams were
taxed for every dollar they paid players above that limit.  New York was the oldest team in the NBA this season with an
average age of more than 31 heading into the playoffs, and had
so many injuries during the season that Woodson said he often
couldn’t hold practice. Grunwald said the team didn’t
necessarily need to get younger.  “Age and experience was a big factor in our success,” he
said, acknowledging that injuries are always a risk of that
approach. “The crucial players are our core guys, and they’re
in their prime.”  Melo’s Money  Anthony, the first Knicks player since Bernard King in 1985
to win the NBA scoring title, is under contract for $21.4
million next season and $23.3 million in 2014-15. He said
yesterday that the team would improve in the offseason.  “I’m still excited about what’s here to come,” he said.
“We as a team and as a unit will be better next year.”  Anthony, who turns 29 this month, also said he will have
his left shoulder examined “in the next couple days” to
determine whether there is damage that requires a medical
procedure. He aggravated the injury in the team’s first round
against the  Boston  Celtics and wore a sleeve over the arm for
the rest of the playoffs.  The Knicks set an NBA record with 891 three-point baskets
during the regular season and had the best turnover margin in
the league, averaging three fewer than their opponents in
winning a division title and earning the No. 2 playoff seed in
the Eastern Conference. The team won its first Atlantic Division
title in 19 years.  Old Roster  Like Anthony, Chandler and Stoudemire, Raymond Felton,
Jason Kidd, Marcus Camby and Steve Novak are all under contract
for the next two seasons. Iman Shumpert, 22, is set to make $1.6
million next season, with a club option for 2014-15.  J.R. Smith may test free agency this offseason -- with a
$2.9 million player option for next year -- yet the NBA’s Sixth
Man of the Year said last week that he wants to “retire a
Knick.” Grunwald declined to comment today on the status of
talks between Smith, 27, and the team.  Any changes to the Knicks’ roster will come at a time when
many other Eastern Conference teams stand to improve heading
into 2013-14. The Miami Heat are going for their second straight
championship with LeBron James, Dwyane Wade and Chris Bosh,
while the  Chicago  Bulls and Boston Celtics next season will both
probably have All-Star guards back from injury:  Derrick Rose  in
Chicago and Rajon Rondo in Boston. The Pacers should have Danny Granger, their leading scorer from 2011-12, back from injury.  “I like the direction in which we’re headed,” Woodson
said. “I just hope our fans stay patient with us and continue
to believe in our team.”  Postseason Drops  The Knicks had a league-low 19.3 assists per game in the
regular season, a number that dropped to 15.1 per game in the
playoffs. New York’s offense also averaged 88.6 points per game
in the playoffs, more than 11 points per game below their
regular-season average of 100.  Shumpert, the youngest player on the roster, offered one of
the harshest criticisms, calling the team’s playoff run a
“failure.” He averaged 9.3 points, six rebounds and 1.1 steals
per game in the playoffs, all higher than his regular-season
averages.  “We have to hold each other accountable,” he said
yesterday. “We were supposed to go farther and we didn’t. I’d
say that’s a failure.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  