-- NBA’s Raptors Remove Colangelo as General Manager Under Leiweke
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2013-05-21T15:41:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/nba-s-raptors-remove-colangelo-as-general-manager-under-leiweke.html
The  Toronto Raptors  changed their
front-office structure, stripping Bryan Colangelo of his duties
overseeing the team’s basketball operations while extending his
contract as president.  The moves came at the direction of  Tim Leiweke , who last
month became president and chief executive officer of Maple Leaf
Sports & Entertainment Ltd., which owns the National Basketball
Association franchise.  The Raptors are searching for a general manager, who will
have final authority on all basketball-related decisions, the
team said in a statement.  Colangelo, a two-time NBA Executive of the Year who joined
Toronto in February 2006 as both president and GM, will report
to Leiweke, advising him on basketball-related matters and
broadening his focus on business issues. Terms of his contract
extension as president weren’t disclosed.  Leiweke said on a conference call today with reporters that
he gave Colangelo high marks for his work in the Toronto
community.  “On basketball, I think we all know that there is great
debate about decisions made in the past eight years, and
particular in the last five years not making the playoffs,”
Leiweke said. “There is accountability here. We need a new set
of eyes and a new thinking toward how we, from a basketball
standpoint, go forward.”  Colangelo is also free to explore jobs with other
franchises, Leiweke said.  The Raptors went 34-48 last season and haven’t qualified
for the postseason since 2008.  Toronto has identified Denver Nuggets GM Masai Ujiri as a
 top candidate  to become its own general manager, CBSSports.com
reported, citing unnamed league sources. Ujiri was named the
NBA’s Executive of the Year earlier this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  