-- Negative SNB Rates May Lessen Swiss Mortgage Dilemma: IMF
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   B o s l e y
-- 2013-05-21T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/negative-snb-rates-may-lessen-swiss-mortgage-dilemma-imf.html
The introduction of negative interest
rates on banks’ excess deposits could help the  Swiss National
Bank  cool the country’s real-estate market, according to the
 International Monetary Fund .  “Negative interest rates may help address the dilemma the
SNB faces: low interest rates are necessary to defend the floor
but fuel the housing and mortgage markets,” the IMF said in a
report today, following its annual Article IV consultation.  The central bank has held its benchmark  interest rate  at
zero since August 2011 and in September of that year capped the
franc at 1.20 per euro to shield the economy from the crisis in
the neighboring euro region.  Should the franc face another bout of steep appreciation
pressure, the SNB could implement a charge on the excess
deposits commercial banks hold with the central bank, the IMF
said in March.  Banks might pass the increased cost of funding to clients
in the form of higher  mortgage rates  and thereby limit credit
growth, according to the report. Lenders might also pass on the
higher cost to depositors, which could impede financial
intermediation, it said.  Still, given “very low” activity on the Swiss interbank
market thanks to excess liquidity at lenders, the drawbacks of
negative rates in  Switzerland  may be less severe than in other
countries, the IMF said.  “The impact of negative interest rates on mortgage rates
depends on the pass-through,” the IMF said.  Switzerland is in the midst of its strongest housing boom
in two decades, fueled in part by the SNB’s loose monetary
policy that has made taking on debt inexpensive. In a bid to
thwart risky lending, the government in February ordered banks
to hold additional capital as a buffer. The measure, implemented
at the behest of the SNB, takes effect from Sept. 30.  SNB Board Member Fritz Zurbruegg said in an interview last
week that it was still too early to judge the buffer’s effect.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Bosley in Zurich at 
 cbosley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  