-- NFL’s Giants Are Oddsmakers’ Favorite to Win 2013 Division Title
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2013-05-21T16:51:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/nfl-s-giants-are-oddsmakers-favorite-to-win-2013-division-title.html
The  New York Giants  are the
oddsmakers’ favorite to win their division next season, while
the  New York Jets  are picked to share last place.  The Giants, who missed the National Football League
playoffs last season with a 9-7 record, will match that win
total in 2013, based on a consensus average of Las Vegas
sportsbooks compiled by RJ Bell of  Pregame.com .  The  Washington Redskins  won the  National Football
Conference ’s East last season with a 10-6 record. Both
 Washington  and the  Dallas Cowboys  are expected to win eight
games in 2013, while the  Philadelphia Eagles ’ win total is
expected to be seven under first-year coach Chip Kelly,
according to Bell.  Washington quarterback Robert Griffin III had surgery on
his right knee in January after injuring ligaments in a playoff
loss to the  Seattle Seahawks . The 2012 Pro Bowl player’s injury
is “no doubt a downward influence on Washington’s win total,”
Bell said in an e-mail.  “Whenever there is significant uncertainty, the betting
market estimates chances and evaluates each, arriving at a
weighted conclusion -- an approach quite similar to arbitraging
bids for public companies,” Bell said. “Las Vegas values
Washington without RG3, with a slowed down RG3, and with a fully
healthy RG3, weights the probabilities and arrives at a
conclusion.”  Griffin may be ready for Washington’s Sept. 9 season opener
against Philadelphia, the Redskins said after his surgery. No
team has repeated as NFC East champion since 2004, when the
Eagles won for the fourth straight time.  Conference Favorites  The  San Francisco  49ers, who lost the  Super Bowl  last
season to the Baltimore Ravens, and the  Denver Broncos  each are
expected to win 11.5 games in 2013, the most in the NFL. The
odds allow gamblers to bet on whether teams finish over or under
the total offered by bookmakers.  The Jets and  Buffalo Bills  tied for last place in the
American Football Conference East last season with 6-10 records.
Both clubs are listed at 6.5 wins for next season, even after
the Jets traded All-Pro cornerback  Darrelle Revis  to the Tampa
Bay Buccaneers last month. That move lengthened New York’s odds
of winning the Super Bowl to 100-1 from 50-1, meaning a
successful $10 bet on the Jets to win their first title since
the 1968 season would net $1,000.  Below are the average projected win totals for all 32 NFL
teams, listed with division winners and playoff qualifiers based
solely on win total projections.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  