-- NFL Awards Future Super Bowls to San Francisco and Houston
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-05-21T19:23:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/nfl-awards-50th-super-bowl-to-san-francisco-as-houston-gets-51st.html
The San Francisco Bay Area will host
the National Football League’s 50th Super Bowl in 2016 at the
49ers’ stadium that is set to open next year, while Houston was
picked as the site of the 2017 championship game.  San Francisco and Houston were selected over South Florida
after the Miami Dolphins failed to get public funding for
renovations to Sun Life Stadium. Both sites were selected in the
first round of voting, the first time in 10 years that a single
round of balloting was needed. Winning cities required approval
from at least 24 of 32 NFL owners at today’s meeting in  Boston .  The 49ers’ $1.2 billion facility in Santa Clara,
 California , is under construction and will be named Levi’s
Stadium after the team reached a 20-year, $220 million agreement
this month with Levi Strauss & Co., the world’s biggest maker of
jeans.  The NFL’s 2016 championship game will be the 12th time that
the Super Bowl will be held in California and comes 50 years
after the first edition was played in Los Angeles. The most
recent Super Bowl in the state was in San Diego after the 2002
season, while the title game has also been held in  Pasadena  and
Palo Alto.  The Palo Alto Super Bowl was played at Stanford
University’s stadium in 1985, the only previous game in the San
Francisco area.  Bay Area  “We’re humbled and honored,” Daniel Lurie, chairman of
the San Francisco bid committee, said in an interview on the NFL
Network. “We’re going to get to highlight the best that the Bay
Area has to offer, the technology and innovation. We have
amazing companies like Apple, Google, Yahoo, Intel and Seagate
that have backed this bid. Now we get to turn it into a reality
and bring the bowl to the Bay.”  Cities such as New York, Indianapolis and  Dallas  also were
selected as Super Bowl sites by the NFL after building new
stadiums in recent years.  Houston will host the Super Bowl in 2017 for the second
time at Reliant Stadium. The city previously hosted the 2004
title game, when the New England Patriots beat the Carolina
Panthers for their second of three titles in a four-year span.  “We’re making it more of a regional event,” Houston
Texans owner Bob McNair said of Super Bowl 51 on the NFL
Network. “We’re inviting people from surrounding cities to come
enjoy it and also people from  Mexico . We’re looking forward to
making it a big 10-day celebration.”  South Florida  South Florida’s bid was dealt a blow this month when the
Florida Legislature refused a taxpayer funding plan to help the
Dolphins refurbish their stadium. Dolphins majority owner
Stephen Ross has said 26-year-old Sun Life Stadium needs $350
million in upgrades.  Miami has hosted the Super Bowl 10 times, most recently in
2010, when the New Orleans Saints beat the Indianapolis Colts.  This season’s Super Bowl will be played at MetLife Stadium
in East Rutherford, New Jersey, on Feb. 2, 2014. It will be the
first time the game is played outdoors in a cold-weather site.  The 2015 Super Bowl will be held in the Phoenix area, as
the  Arizona  Cardinals play in Glendale, Arizona.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  