-- Nigeria Central Bank Keeps Benchmark Interest Rate at 12%
-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 2013-05-21T15:37:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/nigeria-central-bank-keeps-benchmark-interest-rate-at-12-.html
The Central Bank of Nigeria left its
benchmark interest rate at a record high, concerned by a drop in
oil output and the threat of higher spending as the government
combats Islamist insurgents in the northeast.  Seven of the 10 members at the Monetary Policy Committee
meeting voted to keep the  policy rate  at 12 percent for a 10th
consecutive meeting, Governor Lamido Sanusi told reporters today
in the capital, Abuja. That was in line with the forecasts of 11
economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg.  The military of  Africa ’s largest oil producer began an air
and ground offensive last week against Islamist militants in the
northeast after President Goodluck Jonathan imposed emergency
rule in the states of Borno, Yobe and Adamawa on May 14. That
may prompt additional spending, adding to pressure on  inflation (NGCPIYOY) 
as the currency weakens.  “The recent military action in the northeast will result
in additional spending,” Sanusi said. “Government spending
will constitute a major risk to the inflation and exchange rate
outlook, thus advising prudence in monetary policy action at
this point.”  The naira has dropped 1.3 percent against the dollar since
the beginning of the year, limiting the scope policy makers have
to lower borrowing costs. The currency was at 158.20 per dollar
as of 4:25 p.m. in Lagos, the commercial capital.  Policy Easing  Calls for a rate cut have increased with Finance Minister
Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala saying yesterday a reduction would boost
economic activity.  “We suspect that a combination of below-trend growth and
sub-10 percent inflation will pave the way for policy easing
later this year,” Neil Shearing, chief  emerging markets 
economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in  London , said in an e-mailed note to clients.  Inflation accelerated to 9.1 percent in April from 8.6
percent in the previous month. Sanusi, who was hospitalized in
Paris earlier this month for an emergency appendix operation,
said inflation will probably remain under 10 percent for the
next six months.  Interest rates at a record high may help to bolster
portfolio inflows and foreign-currency reserves, which declined
0.8 percent to $48.5 billion in the two weeks through May 17.  The economy probably expanded 6.7 percent in the second
quarter compared with 6.6 percent in the previous three months,
Sanusi said, citing figures from the National Bureau of
Statistics. The biggest risks to growth this year include
widespread insecurity, weak infrastructure and projected heavy
rains and flooding in some parts of the country, he said.  Military operations in the north “have the potential to
adversely affect economic activities generally, including
agricultural production and food prices as well as consumer
demand,” said Sanusi.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maram Mazen in Abuja at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  