-- North Korea Frees Chinese Fishing Boat After Ransom Report
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-05-21T07:41:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/north-korea-frees-chinese-boat-after-report-ransom-was-demanded.html
North Korea freed a Chinese fishing
vessel and its crew after the boat’s owner posted updates on his
microblog account saying that he’d been told to pay a 600,000-yuan ($97,800) ransom to win their release.  The ship and its crew, from the northern city of Dalian,
were freed today, the official Xinhua News Agency reported,
citing a Chinese consular officer in North Korea. The ship’s
owner, Yu Xuejun, said on his  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700)  microblog
account today that he couldn’t come up with the cash and was
“thankful to the Foreign Ministry for its diplomacy.”  The incident may further strain North Korea’s relationship
with China, its main ally, as the U.S. calls on President Xi
Jinping’s government to pressure Kim Jong Un’s regime to curb
its nuclear weapons program. South Korean Foreign Minister Yun Byung Se said the North’s “erratic behavior” may be taking a
toll on China.  “There are some indications that China is slowly evolving
its thoughts and stance vis-a-vis North Korea,” Yun said today.
“There is a growing recognition that the misadventure of North
Korea is becoming a liability, instead of a strategic asset.”  The U.S. and South Korea have called on  China  to make
greater efforts to enforce United Nations sanctions targeting
the North’s nuclear weapons program. A Chinese state bank closed
the account of a North Korean lender earlier this month.  Formal Complaint  China, which filed a formal complaint over the detention,
is asking North Korea to investigate and “make a full
explanation to us,” Foreign Ministry spokesman Hong Lei said
today. No ransom was paid to secure the crew’s freedom, China
National Radio reported today, without citing anyone.  In an editorial today, the state-owned Global Times
newspaper said that China should maintain its relationship with
the North yet deal with frictions decisively. China should not
worry about the overall bilateral situation and should let North
Korea know it is angry, the editorial said.  “There is no territorial confrontation between China and
North Korea,” the editorial said. “It’s more likely the North
Korean military police are using the ambiguity of maritime
borders to make a quick buck.”  A year ago, a North Korean ship seized three Chinese
fishing boats with 29 crew and demanded 300,000  yuan  to free
each vessel, the Global Times reported at the time.  Yu, the boat’s owner, had posted regular updates on the
situation on his microblog following a May 18 post saying the
ship’s captain told him of the ransom demand by phone. He said
yesterday that he’d been asked to wire the money to a company in
the border city of Dandong.  “We only hope that the country can protect our rights,”
he wrote in one post yesterday. “And that there are less
incidents of boats being captured by North Korea in China’s
waters.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Li Liu in Beijing at 
 lliu255@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  