-- Northwest Gasoline Tumbles on Tankers, as Shell Restores Output
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2013-05-21T23:02:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/northwest-gasoline-tumbles-on-tankers-as-shell-restores-output.html
Spot gasoline in the U.S. Pacific
Northwest dropped by the most against futures since February as
tankers carried oil products to the region and a  Royal Dutch
Shell Plc (RDSA)  refinery recovered from a power failure.  The oil-products tanker NCC Reem, near  Seattle , was bound
for  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Cherry Point refinery in  Washington  state today,
according to  IHS Inc. (IHS)  data. The vessel was chartered by  Phillips
66 (PSX)  to deliver clean products to the West Coast from South Korea,
ship-fixture information compiled by Bloomberg show. The Voge
Dignity, off the California coast, is also headed for  Vancouver .  Conventional, 84-octane gasoline  in Portland,  Oregon , a
benchmark for the Pacific Northwest, weakened by 11.5 cents
against futures traded on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange to a
premium of 17.5 cents a gallon, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
That’s the lowest level for the fuel in three weeks and the
biggest single-day decline since Feb. 28.  Low-sulfur diesel  in  Portland  slid 4.5 cents versus ultra-low-sulfur diesel futures on the Nymex to a premium of 13 cents
a gallon, its lowest level since May 9.  Shell’s 147,500-barrel-a-day Anacortes refinery in
Washington has returned to normal operations after a power
failure May 13 that resulted in the shutdown of multiple units,
Kim Windon, a company spokeswoman in Houston, said by e-mail on
May 17.  California-blend gasoline, or Carbob, in San Francisco
strengthened 2.5 cents against Nymex futures to a premium of
15.5 cents a gallon. The same fuel in Los Angeles climbed 1 cent
to 10 cents above futures.  California-grade, or CARB,  diesel  in San Francisco dropped
4.5 cents against ULSD futures to a discount of 1 cent a gallon.
CARB diesel in Los Angeles also weakened 0.38 cent to 5.38 cents
a gallon below futures.  The  3-2-1 crack spread  of Alaska North Slope crude, Carbob
in Los Angeles and CARB diesel in Los Angeles narrowed for the
first time in three days, losing $1.13 a barrel to $16.66.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in San Francisco at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  