-- Novartis Ramps Up Alzheimer’s Drug Pursuit as Rivals Fail
-- B y   E v a   v o n   S c h a p e r
-- 2013-05-22T15:47:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/novartis-ramping-up-alzheimer-s-pursuit-as-rivals-drugs-fail.html
Novartis AG (NOVN)  plans to ramp up its
research in Alzheimer’s disease, a potential $20 billion market
lacking a major contender and littered with three high-profile
drug failures in the past year alone.  “This remains high on our radar, with high unmet medical
need,” Tim Wright, who heads the Basel, Switzerland-based
company’s drug development, said on a conference call arranged
by Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. analyst  Tim Anderson  in April.
Novartis didn’t respond to a request for comment on its
Alzheimer’s research.  Novartis would be racing to catch up with  Roche Holding AG (ROG) 
and  Merck & Co. (MRK) , which are conducting human tests on treatments
for Alzheimer’s, the most common dementia illness. Drugmakers
are vying to find a way to slow the disease, which may affect 65
million people by 2030. The field is marked with failures,
including a study  Baxter International Inc. (BAX)  released this month
in which its Gammagard drug didn’t help patients.  “Should Novartis move into Alzheimer’s? Yes,” Michael Leuchten, an analyst at Barclays Plc in London, said by phone.
“Will it be easy to do? No.”  Novartis is pursuing alternatives including licensing
agreements, Wright said on the call. So far the drugmaker’s
development in the area hasn’t progressed as quickly as Novartis
expected over past years, he said.  Current Drugs  Novartis sells Exelon, a drug that lessens symptoms of the
disease by preventing the breakdown of a substance linked to
learning and memory. The drug, also used in  Parkinson’s disease ,
may have about $930 million in sales this year, according to
analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Novartis bought a
license to an Alzheimer’s vaccine from  Cytos Biotechnology AG (CYTN)  in
2003, and the companies completed a mid-stage trial in December.  “Alzheimer’s would really make a lot of sense for
Novartis,” Olav Zilian, an analyst at Helvea SA in Geneva, said
by phone. “But they have a lot of work to do if they want to
position themselves.”  Novartis rose 1.7 percent to 73.65 Swiss francs in Zurich.
The stock has returned 54 percent in the past 12 months,
including reinvested dividends, compared with a 41 percent gain
in the Bloomberg Europe Pharmaceutical Index.  Baxter’s Gammagard was the third experimental Alzheimer’s
drug to fail in less than a year. The other two were  Eli Lilly &
Co. (LLY) ’s solanezumab and bapineuzumab, developed jointly by Pfizer
Inc.,  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  and  Elan Corp. (ELN)   Brain Plaque  The latter two drugs targeted the build-up of plaque in
patients’ brains called amyloid, based on the hypothesis that by
clearing the plaque or stopping it from forming, therapies could
prevent damage that eventually leads to cognitive decline, loss
of function, and dementia.  About 95 percent of Alzheimer’s research has been focused
on amyloid, which is a risk, according to  Clive Ballard , a
professor of age-related diseases at King’s College London.  “Having so many eggs in one basket is probably a
mistake,” Ballard said in a phone interview. Drugmakers should
also focus on regenerative therapies and drugs that modify or
inhibit so-called tau proteins, he said.  Sanofi (SAN)  won’t push hard to find an Alzheimer’s treatment
because the science isn’t advanced enough to justify the costs
to develop a drug,  Chris Viehbacher , chief executive officer of
the Paris-based drugmaker, said in April. While Bristol-Myers
Squibb Co. said it won’t give up on Alzheimer’s research, it’s
focusing mainly on cancer treatments.  The Alzheimer’s market could be worth $20 billion, Deutsche
Bank estimated last year.  “It’s an area that we haven’t given up on,” Novartis’s
Wright said on the call.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eva von Schaper in Munich at 
 evonschaper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kristen Hallam at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net  