-- Obama’s Trade Nominee Agrees to Sell Citigroup Holdings
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2013-05-21T18:22:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/obama-s-trade-nominee-agrees-to-sell-citigroup-holdings.html
Michael Froman , nominated to be U.S.
Trade Representative, said he and his wife will divest holdings
with his former employer  Citigroup Inc. (C)  if he wins Senate
confirmation.  Froman, currently the deputy national security adviser to
President  Barack Obama  for international economic affairs,
listed funds making private-equity and infrastructure-related
investments among the Citigroup holdings, according to
disclosure  documents  released by the Office of Government
Ethics.  He said will divest his holdings in Citigroup Capital
Partners I LP and Citigroup Employee Fund of Funds LP within 90
days of being confirmed because confidentiality agreements bar
him from disclosing the two funds’ underlying assets.  If confirmed, Froman, 50, will lead an agency that is
trying to create the two largest free-trade areas in U.S.
history, with the 27-nation European Union and 11 Pacific-region
nations. He has been a key adviser to Obama on trade and
economic policy, and as trade representative he would be
responsible for overseeing negotiation of the accords.  Froman, a former executive with New York-based Citigroup,
said he will also divest his interests in Citigroup Capital
Partners II LP and CVC International Growth Partnership
(Employee) II LP, according to the filings. His wife, Nancy
Goodman, will divest interests in Citi Infrastructure Partners
Carried Interest LP, also within 90 days of his confirmation.
Froman didn’t provide a reason for those divestitures.  Assets, Liabilities  He said he will recuse himself from matters that may have
an effect on the Citigroup assets until he and has wife have
divested the funds.  The nominee listed assets valued at $11 million to $47
million, according to the filings, which only require nominees
to list a range. Those holdings generated $399,000 to $3.2
million of income.  Froman’s holdings include investment funds, municipal
bonds, residential real estate in  New York  worth at least $5
million and partial ownership of commercial real estate in
California and  Colorado .  His liabilities, valued from $2.5 million to $6 million,
include mortgages on the Colorado property and his rented
personal residence, according to the documents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  