-- Obama Promises Oklahoma Will Get All Aid Needed ‘Right Away’
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2013-05-21T14:18:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/obama-promises-oklahoma-will-get-all-aid-needed-right-away-.html
President  Barack Obama  promised to
make all federal resources available to the people of  Oklahoma 
after a mile-wide tornado ripped through the Oklahoma City
suburb of Moore and killed at least 24 people.  Obama said he’s dispatched the head of the  Federal
Emergency Management Agency  to the state, and that his
administration has activated rescue teams and other resources to
help in rescue and recovery efforts.  “Oklahoma needs to get everything it needs, right away,”
the president said this morning at the White House. “Americans
from every corner of this country will be right there with
them.”  Rescue workers were still searching the rubble of a
collapsed elementary school for two dozen missing students after
the storm struck. The storm left a path of destruction about 20
miles (32 kilometers) long. Hundreds of people were injured.  The twister was at least an EF-4 storm, the second most
powerful, with winds as high as 200 miles per hour, according to
Ryan Barnes, a weather service meteorologist in Norman,
Oklahoma.  Obama was briefed today by Chief of Staff  Denis McDonough 
and Homeland Security Secretary  Janet Napolitano . He declared a
major disaster in Oklahoma yesterday, making federal aid
available to people and local governments in the counties of
 Cleveland , Lincoln, McClain, Oklahoma and Pottawatomie.  The aid includes grants to cover home repair and temporary
housing costs, along with loans to help pay for uninsured
property losses, the White House said.  Call to Governor  Obama told Oklahoma Governor Mary Fallin in a phone call
yesterday that the administration stood ready to assist her
state with whatever may be needed.  FEMA administrator  Craig Fugate  is going to Oklahoma today
to oversee the federal relief and safety operations including
search and rescue, according to the White House.  Three disaster assistance teams will arrive later today to
help people register for federal aid, the White House said in a
statement. Damage assessment teams begin their work today to
help the state identify what other aid may be needed and three
urban search and rescue teams have been activated.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Komarow at   skomarow1@bloomberg.net  