-- Oil-Fixing Probe Accelerates as EU Asks Traders for Help
-- B y   J a k e   R u d n i t s k y ,   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h   a n d   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-05-21T09:53:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/oil-fixing-probe-accelerates-as-eu-asks-traders-for-help.html
The investigation into possible oil-price fixing gathered pace as trading houses from Glencore
Xstrata Plc, the $70 billion mining firm, to Gunvor Group Ltd.
were asked to provide information to European regulators.  Glencore Xstrata, Gunvor and Vitol Group, which aren’t
under investigation, along with other firms with offices in
 Switzerland , are assisting the European Commission with the
inquiry, said three people familiar with the situation, who
asked not to be identified because the matter is private. The
commission announced last week that it’s probing whether  oil
companies  colluded to distort prices.  “The circle gets bigger,” Craig Pirrong, director of the
University of Houston’s Global Energy Management Institute, said
yesterday by phone. “The more records they ask for, the more
records they get and the more firms that might get caught up in
this. We’re talking about a substantial fraction of the world
oil trade being involved here.”  The probe of potential abuse in the energy market is the
third into global benchmark prices in the past year and follows
investigations into the London interbank offered rate, or Libor,
and ISDAFix, the benchmark for the $379 trillion swaps market.
 Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  BP Plc (BP/)  and  Statoil ASA (STL)  are targets of the
latest inquiry into whether prices of crude, refined oil
products and biofuels were manipulated, potentially harming
consumers.  Platts , a price assessor, was also questioned.  Platts Prices  Spokesmen for Baar, Switzerland-based Glencore Xstrata,
Geneva-based Vitol and Gunvor, and competitors Mercuria Energy
Trading SA, also of Geneva, and Amsterdam-based Trafigura Beheer
BV, either didn’t return calls seeking comment or declined to
discuss the matter because of company policy.  Antoine Colombani, a spokesman for the Brussels-based
commission, declined to comment when contacted by  Bloomberg News 
today.  Platts, which is owned by  McGraw Hill Financial Inc. (MHFI) ,
publishes benchmark prices that are used to determine the costs
refiners pay for crude and distributors pay for  diesel fuel  and
gasoline. Traders report some transactions to Platts. Those
deals, rather than a complete record of all trades, are used to
determine the price.  Total SA (FP) , Europe’s third-biggest oil company, has estimated
that as much as 80 percent of all crude and oil-product
transactions are linked to reference prices such as those
published by Platts, while as much as 20 percent are linked to
exchange-traded futures on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  and
ICE Futures Europe.  Brent Benchmark  Platts’s North Sea Dated Brent benchmark sets the price of
half the world’s crude, from Canada to Australia. Its kerosene
assessments are used by the  airline industry , where fuel
accounts for about a third of operating costs. In the biofuels
markets, the company assesses the price of ethanol and biodiesel
as well as ethyl tert-butyl ether, an additive that’s used in
gasoline production.  Shell is “fully co-operating” with the EU’s inquiry,
Chief Executive Officer  Peter Voser  said at the company’s annual
general meeting in The Hague today.  “It’s important to bear in mind at this stage it’s just an
investigation into facts and evidence, and no adverse finding
has been made,” Voser said.  The widening of the EU’s request for information to trading
companies was reported earlier yesterday by the Financial Times.  Regulators Attention  “Oil gets regulators’ attention because trading is
extremely complicated and not at all transparent, while the
price of crude is something that affects everyone,”  Andrey Kryuchenkov , an analyst at VTB Capital in London, said by phone.  Pannonia Ethanol, a Hungarian biofuel producer, said on May
16 it lodged a complaint with the commission last year after
Platts denied requests to contribute to its price-setting
process.  Neste Oil Oyj (NES1V) , Finland’s only refiner, said on May 16 it
was asked to provide information regarding the inquiry and is
not a target of the investigation. Eni SpA, Italy’s largest oil
company, has received a request for information but isn’t under
investigation, a spokeswoman said last week.  Separately, a preliminary bond prospectus dated May 10
obtained by Bloomberg News showed a subsidiary of Gunvor was
served a subpoena by the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Eastern
District of New York in April 2011 for documents relating to its
oil-trading activities.  Gunvor Subpoena  Castor Americas Inc., a Delaware-incorporated member of the
group, and three of its staff received subpoenas, according to
the prospectus. A Gunvor employee was also served.  Peter Carr , a
spokesman for the U.S.  Justice Department , declined to confirm
or deny that an investigation is ongoing.  Gunvor is closely held by billionaires  Gennady Timchenko 
and Torbjorn Tornqvist, and doesn’t regularly disclose its
financial information. While the Justice Department “has not
served any additional subpoenas to any companies or employees of
Gunvor, Gunvor continues to cooperate,” according to the
prospectus.  Seth Pietras, a Geneva-based spokesman for Gunvor, declined
to comment on the subpoenas when contacted by telephone
yesterday. Gunvor acquired Castor in 2009.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
Platts and other companies in providing energy markets news and
information.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net ;
Jake Rudnitsky in Moscow at 
 jrudnitsky@bloomberg.net ;
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  