-- Oklahoma Schools Destroyed by Storm Didn’t Have ‘Safe Rooms’
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   N e w k i r k ,   M i k e   L e e   a n d   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2013-05-22T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/oklahoma-schools-where-children-died-didn-t-have-safe-rooms-.html
In Moore,  Oklahoma , an area residents
call Tornado Alley because it’s struck by more ferocious
twisters than anywhere in the U.S., two schools destroyed by the
May 20 storm lacked “safe room” shelters that would have cost
$600,000 to $1 million per building to retrofit.  Rescue teams with mobile cranes, flatbed trucks and front-end loaders continued to clear rubble yesterday from the area
around Plaza Towers Elementary School, where at least seven
children lost their lives, police said.  Neither Plaza Towers nor Briarwood Elementary School had
safe rooms, chambers made of steel and other materials that are
bolted to the ground or installed underground, said Albert Ashwood, director of the Oklahoma Department of Emergency
Management. It would have cost between $600,000 and $1 million
to retrofit each with the shelters, he said in an interview.  “We have funded over 100 school safe rooms. The two hit
were not among them,” Ashwood said. “We are checking as to how
many were applied for in Moore and how many were applied for in
 Oklahoma City .”  Ashwood said the department was looking into whether the
two schools had applied for federal funding to build safe rooms.
Numerous Oklahoma and Texas companies advertise safe rooms
online, attesting to their safety even in EF-5 storms of the
kind that hit Moore, with winds in excess of 200 miles per hour.  ‘Limited Funds’  “You have a limited amount of funds,” he said. “You set
priorities. It’s not a matter of they were being left out.”  Moore was hit hard by a tornado in May 1999 that followed a
similar path. It had the highest winds ever recorded near the
earth’s surface and was one of the most expensive in U.S.
history at $1 billion in damage, according to the  National
Weather Service . A total of 41 direct and indirect fatalities
were attributed to the storm in Moore and other towns, the
service said. Another tornado hit Moore in 2003.  “If they can afford a $5 million football stadium, they
can afford a safe room,” said John Lemmon, 67, who lives near
Plaza Towers school. “They should have done it right after they
had the last big one.”  Immediately after the May 20 storm, police and other first
responders used their bare hands to dig through collapsed cinder
blocks and debris to save trapped children at Plaza Towers,
which had stood on the site since 1966. Some children were
pulled out of the rubble alive, and at least one mother saved
her child by coming to the school to pick up her daughter as the
storm approached.  ‘Everyone Out’  “We’re confident everyone is out,” said Sergeant Jeremy
Lewis of the Moore police department in an interview near the
school, indicating that searchers didn’t expect to find more
bodies there.  More than 75 students were at school when the tornado
struck, KFOR-TV reported.  The schools belong to a district in northern Cleveland
County between Oklahoma City, the state’s largest municipality,
and Norman, its third-largest, in the south portion of the
Oklahoma City metropolitan area.  It’s a section of the U.S. that’s been struck by tornadoes
more times than any other place in the country, according to
government data. The May 20 storm came the day after two people
were killed and 39 injured in separate storms in the state. At
least 30 tornadoes were reported on May 19 from  Illinois  to
Oklahoma.  The district’s storm response procedures call for local
schools to prepare for tornadoes by gathering students in rooms
away from exterior walls and windows, and to kneel on the floor
in a protective, crouched position.  “That’s what the kids were doing when they found them,”
Lewis said.  ‘Wise Idea’  “Underground shelters in schools would probably be a wise
idea,” said Suzanne Jobe, who has four children in three
schools in Moore. She recalled participating in safety drills in
such shelters as a young girl in nearby Norman. In a strong
tornado, she said, “If you’re not underground, you’re gone.”  Ashwood said it’s up to each district to decide which
schools get funding for safe rooms. Such shelters wouldn’t have
guaranteed safety at the two schools hit by the storm in Moore,
he said.  Funding for safe rooms comes from the  Federal Emergency
Management Agency  and is awarded based on prior disasters, he
said.  Moore School District, the third-largest school district in
the state, had an enrollment of 22,564 students serving a
population of 126,228 in June 2012, according to documents for
$6.2 million of bonds sold Sept. 10. The school district is the
biggest employer in the city, with 2,500 employees. The
district’s debt totaled $74.5 million as of Aug. 21, the
documents said.  Portable Classroom  The district in the state has 23 elementary schools, five
junior high schools, three high schools and one alternative
school, according to the bond offering.  At Briarwood Elementary, school officials moved students
from a portable classroom to the main school building as the
storm approached. Jade Hardwick, 29, said she believed the move
saved her 7-year-old daughter from injury, even after the
tornado knocked down walls at the school and wrecked cars in its
parking lot.  “I think you can only do the best you can,” she said. “In
our case it worked out.”  Local residents who have experienced tornados with such
severe destructive force don’t question their power to flatten
institutional buildings such as schools and hospitals, said
David Wheeler, 42, the father of a boy rescued from Briarwood
minutes after the storm passed.  ‘Awesome’ Power  “Maybe there will be some changes requiring residential
storm shelters and stronger construction codes, but storms of
this size have awesome destructive power and no one doubts their
ability to knock a building down,” Wheeler said in a telephone
interview.  During the height of the storm, at Briarwood Elementary
School, about a mile from Plaza Towers, 8-year-old Gabriel
Wheeler huddled in a closet with five classmates. Just as their
third-grade teacher, Julie Simon, asked them to put their heads
between their legs for protection the roof of the one-story
building caved in, David Wheeler said.  Gabriel and the others, who received cuts and bruises
without serious injury, were able to claw their way out within
minutes and rescuers directed them to a command center nearby.  Wheeler said that when he found his son more than three
hours later, Gabriel told him, “‘Mrs. Simon will always be my
favorite teacher.’”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Goldman in  New York  at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net 
Margaret Newkirk in Moore, Oklahoma at 
 mnewkirk@bloomberg.net 
 Mike Lee  in Moore, Oklahoma at 
 mlee326@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  