-- Hong Kong Police Investigate Failed Mercantile Exchange
-- B y   S i m o n   L e e   a n d   E l e n i   H i m a r a s
-- 2013-05-22T08:46:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/hong-kong-police-probe-mercantile-exchange-at-sfc-request.html
Police began probing the Hong Kong
Mercantile Exchange Ltd., owner of the failed commodities market
set up by a member of the city’s cabinet, after the securities
regulator found suspected financial irregularities.  The arrest of three men after the May 18 shuttering of the
exchange prompted its Chairman  Barry Cheung , who sits on Hong
Kong’s Executive Council, to say he is taking a leave of absence
from all public positions. Cheung hasn’t been accused of
wrongdoing.  HKMEx lost its trading license after failing to attract
sufficient volumes as it competed with rivals such as the
Chicago Mercantile Exchange and the London Metals Exchange,
which was bought by Hong Kong’s stock-exchange operator last
year. Cheung, who ran the 2012 election campaign for the city’s
Chief Executive Leung Chun-ying, is the latest in a series of
prominent Hong Kong government and business figures to be
affected by criminal investigations.  “This will have an impact on Hong Kong’s image of clean
government,” Ivan Choy, political scientist at  Chinese
University of Hong Kong , said of the series of investigations
involving high-profile figures.  Last week, Hong Kong’s anti-graft agency said it was
investigating its former head over alleged misspending. The
agency last year arrested the co-chairmen of the city’s largest
property developer by market value Sun Hun Kai Properties Ltd.
Thomas and  Raymond Kwok  have pleaded not guilty in that case.  Deripaska, ICBC  The three men arrested aren’t current or former employees
of HKMEx, Cheung told reporters today. He said he would
cooperate fully with the investigation.  A former McKinsey & Co. consultant, Cheung said he is the
HKMEx’s largest shareholder. EN+ Group, controlled by Russian
billionaire Oleg Deripaska and China’s Industrial & Commercial
Bank of China Ltd., the world’s largest lender by market value,
also hold stakes in the exchange.  Leung accepted Cheung’s request to step aside as a member
of his cabinet and other roles including head of the  Urban
Renewal Authority  after the Securities and Futures Commission
said it found “serious” suspected financial irregularities at
the shuttered commodities market.  Leung, whose former development secretary is fighting
charges of housing fraud, said yesterday the investigations into
HKMEx would be impartial and he “should not comment and would
not interfere.”  Rusal, AIA  Cheung was the non-executive chairman of Deripaska’s United
Co. Rusal, the world’s largest aluminum producer, until October,
and remains on the board of the Russian commodities company. He
was appointed to AIA Group Ltd., the former Asian unit of
American International Group Inc., as an independent non-executive director in September.  AIA Group and Cheung’s status as a director have nothing to
do with the situation, Emerald Ng, a spokeswoman for AIA in Hong
Kong said via e-mail, adding that they will continue to monitor
the events. A Moscow-based spokeswoman for Rusal declined to
comment.  HKMEx began trading gold futures in May 2011 and silver
contracts in July that year, both denominated in U.S. dollars.
The exchange stopped trading and handed back its operating
license because revenue wasn’t sufficient to support running
costs, the SFC  said  on May 18.  “HKMEx was founded to bridge  China ’s fast-growing
commodities markets with the rest of the world by providing
products adhering to international standards, but tailored to
local and regional market participants’ risk management needs,”
Cheung said in February 2012.  Positions Closed  He  said  on May 18 that HKMEx would strengthen its
shareholder base and develop new products, and intended to re-apply for its license.  The closing of trading positions on the exchange went
smoothly and is now complete, the SFC said yesterday.
LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd., the London-based clearinghouse, has
started returning collateral to clearing members, the markets
regulator said.  The SFC said yesterday it began investigating HKMEx on May
15 and then referred the matter to the  Hong Kong  police
department’s Commercial Crime Bureau.  Hong Kong police said yesterday they are investigating, on
referral by the SFC, a suspected case of “using a false
instrument” involving a commodities company. They said today
they had arrested three men as part of their investigation of
HKMEx.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Lee in Hong Kong at 
 slee936@bloomberg.net ;
Eleni Himaras in Hong Kong at 
 ehimaras@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  