-- Ontario’s Wynne Won’t Levy New Taxes to Balance Budget
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r r y   a n d   C e c i l e   G u t s c h e r
-- 2013-05-21T15:05:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/ontario-s-wynne-won-t-levy-new-taxes-to-balance-budget.html
Ontario Premier Kathleen Wynne said
she won’t levy new taxes to balance the budget of Canada’s most
populous  province .  Wynne, speaking in an interview today at Bloomberg’s Canada
Economic Summit in Toronto, said it “is fantastic news” the
leader of Ontario’s opposition New Democratic Party, Andrea Horwath, agreed to support the governing Liberal Party’s budget
today.  “There won’t be an election right now,” Wynne said. “I
expect people who elected us believe we will work together.”
Still, she said the economic recovery has lagged behind
expecations, and she said the Bank of Canada would leave her
province vulnerable if it increases its benchmark lending rate.  Wynne, 60, is seeking to cut spending even as the province
copes with an underperforming economy and a jobless rate that
exceeds the national average.  The province projects its economy will grow 1.5 percent
this year and 2.3 percent in 2014. That compares with national
growth of 1.6 percent this year and 2.4 percent next, according
to economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Ontario’s has an unemployment rate of 7.7 percent, compared
with a national average of 7.2 percent, according to Statistics
Canada. Ontario’s jobless rate surpassed the federal level in
2006, the first time it was higher than the national average,
according to Bloomberg records dating to 1976.  ‘Not as Robust’  “The recovery has not been as fast or as robust as we
would have liked,” Wynne said. “We’re dealing with a
fundamentally healthy economy here in Ontario, but we need to be
very vigilante as a government to make sure we’re watching for
those opportunities to support the sectors that can grow.”  Moody’s Investors Service downgraded the province’s credit
rating last year, citing a growing debt burden and declining
economic growth.  In the May 2  budget , Ontario Finance Minister Charles Sousa
reiterated the government’s pledge to eliminate the province’s
deficit by the fiscal year starting April 2017.  Still, Sousa said the deficit will rise this fiscal year to
C$11.7 billion ($11.3 billion) from C$9.8 billion last fiscal
year.  The province’s fiscal plan includes several measures
proposed by the opposition New Democratic Party, such as cuts
auto insurance premiums and create a youth employment program.  Horwath said today her party is prepared to support the
budget.  Pass the Budget  The Liberals hold 51 of the 107 seats in the provincial
legislature, meaning they need some support from opposition
lawmakers to pass the budget and remain in power. The next vote
may come as early as next week.  Wynne became the first woman premier of the country’s most
populous province on Feb. 11 after winning the leadership of the
Ontario Liberal Party. Her predecessor Dalton McGuinty stepped
down in October amid controversy over canceled power plants and
an inability to carry out budget cuts in his minority
government.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John McCorry in Toronto at 
 jmccorry@bloomberg.net ;
Cecile Gutscher in Toronto at 
 cgutscher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  