-- Toronto Council Vetoes New Casino After Mayor Plan Change
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-05-21T21:12:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/toronto-council-vetoes-new-casino-after-mayor-plan-change.html
Toronto  City Council  voted against
new gaming sites in  Canada ’s biggest city after Mayor Rob Ford
today withdrew his support for a plan to build one in a downtown
location.  Ford, who this month was forced to defend himself after
allegedly being filmed taking drugs, today proposed a plan to
explore the construction of a casino on the city’s outskirts.
That motion was defeated in favor of one opposing the
establishment of new gambling operations and a second vetoing
the expansion of existing gaming locations in the city.  Toronto was considered a potentially lucrative market for
U.S. casino operators hungry for expansion after the province of
Ontario announced plans to expand the gambling industry last
year. Among those who unveiled casino proposals or met with Ford
were  Caesars Entertainment Corp. (CZR) ,  Las Vegas Sands Corp. (LVS)  and  MGM
Resorts International. (MGM)   “People in Toronto have been speaking out for 12 months
now, and they’ve been saying quite clearly they don’t want a
casino in Toronto,” said  Mike Layton , the councilor who
proposed a ban on a new casino. “It’s a big victory for the
citizens that got involved in this fight.”  Ford told the council that the casino deal offered by the
Ontario government didn’t provide enough revenue for the city.  “Hosting a casino in Toronto that does little to address
Toronto’s financial needs and simply makes the provincial
government richer is not in the best interest of Toronto,” Ford
said today. “The province wants money for nothing.”  Financial Needs  During his remarks to the council today, Ford didn’t
address allegations he had been caught on video smoking crack
cocaine. George Christopoulos, his spokesman, didn’t respond to
calls seeking comment on the casino vote or the alleged drug
use.  After the Toronto Star  reported  that two of its reporters
watched a video allegedly showing Ford inhaling from a crack-cocaine pipe, Ford said May 17 that the allegations were
“ridiculous.”  The video allegedly shows Ford sitting on a chair in a
room, wearing a white shirt with the top buttons open, and
inhaling from what appears to be a glass crack pipe, the Star
reported. Bloomberg hasn’t seen the video and can’t verify its
authenticity.  Ford has said the Toronto Star story is another example of
the newspaper “going after me.”  Toronto Police say they are reviewing the allegations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Cinko at 
 cinko@bloomberg.net  