-- Most Emerging-Market Stocks Rise on Bond Buying Outlook
-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s   a n d   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-05-21T21:36:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/most-emerging-stocks-rise-as-solar-shares-rally-icbc-declines.html
Most emerging-market stocks advanced
as a Federal Reserve official said bond purchases should
continue, bolstering the outlook for global economic growth.
 Mexico ’s IPC Index slumped to an eight-month low.  Brazil ’s  Ibovespa (IBOV)  advanced for a third session as Centrais
Eletricas Brasileiras SA led gains by electrical utilities.
Russian shares rebounded after metal producers gained, while
South African equities rose to a record as media company  Naspers (NPN) 
Plc surged.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. (601398)  tumbled
the most in six weeks as a person familiar said Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. sold its $1.1 billion investment in the lender.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index was little changed at
1,048.13, as 411 shares gained, while 344 fell. Stocks rebounded
after Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis President James Bullard
said the central bank should continue its quantitative easing
program known as QE because it’s the best available option for
policy makers to boost growth that is slower than expected.  “There’s been a lot of chatter about what’s going to
happen with QE,” Jeff Papp, a senior analyst at Oberweis Asset
Management Inc., which manages about $700 million of
investments, said by phone from Lisle,  Illinois . “So anytime
you hear enforcement that it’s going to stay, you’re going to
see equities do well.”  Industrial shares in the developing-nation measure rose,
while financial stocks retreated. The broad index has lost 0.7
percent this year, compared with a 14 percent increase in the
MSCI World Index.  Emerging ETF  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund fell 0.2 percent to $43.44. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
dropped 2.8 percent to 17.49.  The Ibovespa gained 1 percent to a two-week high as
Eletrobras climbed 7 percent. Mexico’s IPC Index had the biggest
decline among major emerging-market indexes, dropping 1.3
percent.  ICA (ICA*)  tumbled to the lowest price since November.  Russia’s Micex Index extended a three-day advance to 3.6
percent. OAO Mechel, the nation’s biggest coking coal producer,
increased 2.7 percent, while OAO Novolipetsk Steel added 4.3
percent. OAO Rostelecom, the nation’s state-run phone company,
retreated after profit fell.  Biggest Decline  Grupa Azoty SA, Poland’s biggest chemical producer, led
declines in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index after climbing 33
percent in eight days.  The FTSE/JSE  Africa  All-Share Index jumped 1.8 percent to
the highest level since at least 1995, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Naspers, Africa’s largest media group,
jumped 3.8 percent.  The rand declined for a ninth day, weakening to a four-year
low, as violent protests at a South African chrome mine renewed
concern that labor disruptions will cut mining output and slow
economic growth.  The Hang Seng  China  Enterprises Index of mainland companies
lost 0.9 percent, the Shanghai Composite Index gained 0.2
percent. ICBC fell 2.1 percent.  Cosco Pacific Ltd. (1199) , the
container-terminal arm of China’s largest shipping group, gained
4.1 percent after agreeing to sell a $1.2 billion asset.  GCL-Poly Energy Holdings Ltd. (3800)  rose 9 percent on a report the U.S. is
in talks with the European Union and China to settle a dispute
over the trade of solar-energy equipment.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries added three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 272 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Diversified Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Laura Zelenko at 
 lzelenko@bloomberg.net  