-- Hot Weather Threatens U.S. Winter-Wheat Crop in Southern Plains
-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 2013-05-21T15:13:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/hot-weather-threatens-u-s-winter-wheat-crop-in-southern-plains.html
Deteriorating crop conditions for
U.S. winter wheat probably will worsen over the next 10 days as
hot, dry weather compounds damage from last year’s drought and
freezes over the past six weeks, forecasters said.  Above-normal temperatures and limited precipitation in
western counties of  Kansas ,  Oklahoma  and Texas and in eastern
Colorado will add stress to crops already expected to yield less
than last year, Joel Burgio, a DTN meteorologist in Lexington,
 Massachusetts , said in a report yesterday. About 31 percent of
winter-wheat fields were in  good or excellent  condition on May
19, the worst for this time of year since 2006, the government
said yesterday.  “We’re going to see more damage to the crop” if the
weather is as hot and dry as forecasters predict, Mike Schulte,
the executive director of the Oklahoma Wheat Commission, said in
a telephone interview from  Oklahoma City . “Without moisture, it
could cook the plants.”  While prices tumbled this year on signs of rising global
output, conditions are worsening in the U.S., the world’s
largest exporter. Production will drop 18 percent in Kansas, the
biggest U.S. grower of winter wheat, according to estimates from
the Wheat Quality Council’s annual tour of the state earlier
this month. In Oklahoma, output will plunge 45 percent,
according to the state’s grain and feed association.  Wheat futures on the  Kansas City  Board of Trade have
tumbled 11 percent this year to $7.3775 a bushel today. On the
 Chicago  Board of Trade, wheat futures are down 13 percent at
$6.77 a bushel.  Winter Wheat  About 73 percent of the wheat produced in the U.S. is the
winter variety, which is planted in October and November, goes
dormant during the coldest months, and then resumes growth in
March and April before the harvest in June.  Thunderstorms from central Oklahoma through north  Texas 
spawned tornadoes yesterday that killed at least 24 people in
the suburb of Moore, Oklahoma. More deaths are expected as
rescuers sift through debris left by the tornado that was 2
miles (3.2 kilometers) wide.  Temperatures today will top 90 degrees Fahrenheit (32.2
Celsius) in north Texas and are expected to reach 93 degrees in
Guymon, Oklahoma, in the panhandle of the state, by May 25,
according to the  National Weather Service . Hail last week may
have curbed yields in parts of north-central Oklahoma, where
farmers probably won’t start harvesting until about June 7, two
weeks later than normal, Schulte said.  Last year’s drought, the worst since the Dust Bowl era,
left winter-wheat fields in November in the worst condition
since at least 1985, when the government started keeping
records. The Oklahoma  crop  was rated 19 percent good or
excellent, down from 21 percent the prior week, the  U.S.
Department of Agriculture  said yesterday. Kansas was at 28
percent, unchanged from a week earlier.  ‘Really Bad’  “If we get more heat, we’ll see even the good wheat start
to go bad,” Mike O’Dea, a risk-management consultant at INTL
FCStone in Kansas City who forecast the Oklahoma wheat crop at
110 million bushels, said by telephone. “Where there’s good
wheat, there’s good wheat, but where it’s bad, it’s really
bad.”  Little or no rain has fallen in parts of southwest Kansas,
areas in southeast Colorado and the Oklahoma and Texas
panhandles in the past month, National Weather Service data
show. The region is in an exceptional drought, meaning crop
losses have been widespread, while other areas are in extreme
drought, meaning losses are imminent, accord to the U.S. Drought
Monitor.  Evaporating Moisture  Temperatures will remain high all next week, further drying
soils that are already short on moisture, Drew Lerner, the
president of Kansas City-based World Weather Inc., said by
telephone. Any rain will quickly evaporate because of the hot
weather, he said.  “Some of these guys are really hurting,” Lerner said.
“ Colorado  has really been taking it rough the last two or maybe
three years. They don’t have much moisture below the surface, so
they don’t have the water supply to support anything. We expect
to see the continuation of this seasonal warming pattern, and
there’s not enough moisture in the ground to help this crop.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in Chicago at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  