-- How Dangerous Are Government Leaks? Let’s Find Out
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-05-21T22:00:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/how-dangerous-are-government-leaks-let-s-find-out.html
It’s hard to feel comfortable with
the  Barack Obama  administration’s aggressive pursuit of national
security leaks. Last week, the  Justice Department  acknowledged
seizing phone records from Associated Press reporters in
connection with a leak concerning a 2012 counterterrorism
operation in Yemen. This week, we learned that Fox News
correspondent James Rosen’s e-mail was examined to track down
unauthorized disclosures about  North Korea . In this case, the
Justice Department went so far as to call the reporter a “co-conspirator.”  Has the administration overreacted? Probably. But that
doesn’t mean there aren’t legitimate national security issues to
weigh.  The AP case is complicated. With the help of foreign
intelligence agencies, an undercover informant worked his way
into the confidence of al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula. When
the AP reported on a foiled plot in  Yemen  to blow up a U.S.
airliner, it inadvertently exposed the informant. After the AP
report was published, the administration itself leaked
additional information, perhaps to defuse speculation among the
news media and political opponents that a terrorist plot had
just narrowly missed its goal.  U.S. officials had hoped the informant would lead them to
Ibrahim Hassan al-Asiri, the terrorist group’s innovative bomb
maker. Given the lost opportunity, it’s not surprising that the
administration has hunted for the leaker who blew the agent’s
cover.  What’s less clear is how this and similar cases in the
future should be handled. Leaks are an especially vexing problem
because they are routine and an important means of informing the
public. Yet the Yemen leak, according to the administration, was
exceptionally damaging.  Avoiding Embarrassment  Like its predecessors, the Obama administration reserves
the right to define what a national security leak is. What the
news media -- and all Americans -- should fear is that those in
power might use “national security” as a catchall to pursue
leaks that don’t threaten security so much as cause
embarrassment.  The balance between information and security has never been
easy to achieve, with the government typically overreaching in
eras when fear is especially pronounced. The vast expansion of
national security bureaucracies and capabilities since the Sept.
11 attacks has only made it more difficult to find equilibrium.
The U.S. government now engages in an unprecedented volume of
snooping. In 2011 alone, a single telecommunications company,
Sprint Nextel Corp., received more than half a million subpoenas
from U.S. law enforcement.  While the government has developed extraordinary powers of
surveillance, the protocols for policing such powers haven’t
kept pace. Why does one leak initiate a government manhunt -- or
worse in the case of the Fox News reporter, an invocation of a
dubious 1917 espionage statute -- while another is studiously
overlooked by the same administration?  Devising better protocols to confine the government’s reach
poses a challenge. Because of the inherent sensitivity of
intelligence gathering, real-time second-guessing of government
investigations is problematic. For the same reason, a reporters’
shield law, which the Obama administration says it supports,
wouldn’t resolve the most difficult issues. When the government
asserts that national security is at stake in real time, judges
tend to be extremely accommodating.  A more promising approach -- at least a first step -- is to
look backward. Julian Sanchez, a research fellow at the
libertarian  Cato Institute  in Washington, has proposed that
Congress conduct a comprehensive audit of previous government
leak investigations. The decade after Sept. 11 provides ample
case studies.  A review of past practices, including the deployment of
databases, the grounds for issuing subpoenas and the pursuit of
reporters’ records, could point the way to necessary changes in
light of new technologies and enhanced national security powers.
As the furor over the AP case makes plain, the rules at the very
least need clarification; it’s only a matter of time before the
next legal battle over an unauthorized leak.  Conflicting Interests  The interests of the government and the press are not, and
generally should not, be aligned. But stalemate is not
inevitable. A forensic analysis of past leak investigations
would enable  Washington  to move to the ultimate goal: a more
comprehensive -- and comprehensible -- set of ground rules to
sustain the delicate balance of national security and freedom of
information. Neither side of that equation is free of risks. We
should better understand those risks -- and their costs.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 