-- Low Rates Can Raise Risks at Canadian Banks, Dickson Says
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s   a n d   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-05-21T14:22:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/low-rates-can-raise-risks-at-canada-banks-dickson-says.html
Julie Dickson,  Canada ’s banking
regulator, said the current period of low interest rates
threatens to increase risks for the country’s lenders and that
it has become an issue she’s closely monitoring.  Bank regulation and supervision need to be a “strong line
of defense” against the consequences of sustained low interest
rates, which could include falling margins and increased
reliance on higher-yielding assets, Dickson, 55, said in a
speech today at the Bloomberg Canada Economic Summit.  The regulator “is very focused on how banks are reacting
to current conditions,” said Dickson, who heads the Ottawa-based Office of the Superintendent of Financial Institutions.
“The longer the low interest-rate environment persists, the
more interest-rate risk can be built up.”  “When low interest rates first appeared, OSFI saw that the
impact was most noticeable on pension plans and insurance
companies,” Dickson said. “A sustained low interest-rate
environment, especially combined with a flat yield curve,
affects the banking sector as well, largely through squeezing
net interest margins, which negatively affects revenues.”  The effect of low interest rates has become manifest in the
nation’s housing market, a “significant area of focus” for the
regulator, Dickson said. The agency, for example, is conducting
reviews of bank mortgage lending portfolios as well as the
models lenders use to calculate capital charges for uninsured
home loans, she said.  Mortgage Dependence  Canadian banks have been increasing their dependence on
real estate lending in recent years to  drive  earnings, with
residential and non-residential mortgage  assets  totaling C$955
billion ($929 billion) at the end of March, or 26 percent of
total assets, according to OSFI data. That’s up from C$521
billion five years earlier, which represented 20 percent of
assets at the time.  Dickson also defended her decision to make the nation’s
banks meet  new capital standards  ahead of global peers, saying
it helps the industry maintain its status as one of the world’s
soundest and will protect Canada’s lenders from any sudden
shocks such as a spike in interest rates.  Canadian banks held four of the top 10 spots in Bloomberg
Markets magazine’s annual ranking of the world’s strongest
banks, released this month. The industry has also been ranked
the world’s soundest for the past five years by the Geneva-based
World Economic Forum.  Basel Rules  OSFI is requiring Canadian lenders to comply with capital
requirements stipulated by the Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision this year, even though the nation can have six more
years to implement the standards. OSFI also has introduced
requirements for “contingent capital” that would help banks
cover future losses and limit the need for taxpayer bailouts.  Banks have been losing favor with investors.  Royal Bank of
Canada (RY) ,  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS)  and six other large Canadian lenders
are trading at the lowest premium to U.S. bank stocks in more
than two years.  The spread between the Standard & Poor’s/TSX Commercial
Banks Index and the KBW Bank Index of 24 U.S. lenders is at its
narrowest since January 2011, based on price to tangible book
value per share, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Quite Resilient’  Canada’s financial system continues to be “quite
resilient” and banks are stronger today than they were six
years ago, Dickson said during a question-and-answer period.  “In 2013, the system is far sounder than it was in 2007,”
she said. “I would say that the external environment, though,
is more dangerous today than it was in 2007.”  Banks should be fine to take on more risk as long as they
have the controls in place and are doing stress testing, Dickson
said.  “There are huge incentives right now to go out the risk
curve,” Dickson said. “Banks exist to take risk, but if you’re
going to go out the risk curve, you better be on top of it, and
be talking to your boards about your strategy and enhancing your
risk management at the same time.”  Canadian banks are “relatively well-situated” if there’s
a sharp increase in interest rates, Dickson said.  “I’m relatively comfortable with Canadian banks,” she
said. “It’s the impact on consumers, as well, who might not be
so well-situated to deal with a rapid increase in interest
rates, especially the marginal borrower.”  Dickson also said she’s not seeking another seven-year
appointment as the country’s bank regulator, and will step down
when her term ends in July 2014.  Dickson, the first woman to hold the job, built on a
tradition of emphasizing safety over growth in six years as head
of OSFI.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Toronto at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net ;
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  