-- Pakistan’s Sharif Says Talks With Taliban Militants an Option
-- B y   A u g u s t i n e   A n t h o n y
-- 2013-05-21T05:51:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/pakistan-s-sharif-says-talks-with-taliban-militants-an-option.html
Pakistan Prime Minister-elect  Nawaz Sharif  said an offer of peace talks from the country’s Taliban
insurgents should be taken seriously to end militant violence
that has ravaged the country for more than a decade.  “Every option should be used,” Sharif told newly elected
lawmakers from his Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz party late
yesterday in the eastern city of Lahore. “Guns and bullets
alone are not the solution to any problem,” Sharif said,
reiterating a position he held before voters handed him control
of the lower house of parliament in May 11 elections.  Pakistan’s Taliban movement is a loose alliance of militant
and sectarian organizations fighting security forces in tribal
areas bordering  Afghanistan . The insurgents are opposed to
 Pakistan ’s security alliance with the U.S. and want to impose
Islamic law. A wave of violence before the election, partly
claimed by the Taliban, killed more than 150 people.  In a video message in February, the Taliban said it was
willing to hold negotiations if Sharif and two leaders of
religious parties acted as guarantors to ensure the country’s
army would not back out. Security policy in Pakistan is dictated
by the military.  Pakistan has in the past agreed to deals with the Taliban,
including a 2009 pact to end fighting in the Swat valley in
return for the government placing the region under Shariah rule.
Troops were called in after insurgents broke the agreement and
advanced to within 100 kilometers (62 miles) of Islamabad. The
resulting conflict forced two million people from their homes.  Khan Poised  The accords failed to bring peace, Anatol Lieven, a
professor at  London ’s King’s College and author of “Pakistan: A
Hard Country,” said in a May 12 interview. “The Pakistani
Taliban made bigger and bigger gains. There is a real risk that
will start happening again” if military offensives cease, he
said from London.  The U.S., Pakistan’s biggest aid donor, has long demanded
the army extend its campaigns in the northwest to include groups
like the Haqqani network, which American officials say attacks
U.S. and Afghan forces across the border.  In his first policy statement since the election, Sharif
said militancy had cost the country 40,000 lives and billions of
dollars. “Why not sit and talk, why not bring peace to the
country through dialogue. Is it a bad option?” he said.  The PML-Nawaz won 124 of 272 directly elected seats in the
National Assembly, four times more than its nearest rival.
Parliament has to be convened within three weeks of the election
and will vote for a prime minister.  Imran Khan , whose party is poised to form the provincial
government in northwestern Khyber-Pakhtunkhawa province, a
gateway to the volatile tribal region, has also vowed to promote
talks with the insurgents. Khan has called for army offensives
and missile attacks by U.S. drone aircraft that target militants
in the mountainous districts to stop.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Augustine Anthony in Islamabad at 
 aanthony9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  