-- Palm Oil Seen Dropping by Mistry as Output, Stockpiles Climb
-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 2013-05-21T10:29:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/palm-oil-seen-dropping-by-mistry-as-output-stockpiles-climb-1-.html
Palm oil may decline about 14 percent
as output increases in Indonesia and Malaysia, rebuilding
stockpiles in the world’s two largest producers, according to
Dorab Mistry, director at Godrej International Ltd.  The commodity may drop to 2,000 ringgit ($664) a metric ton
after July, Mistry told  Rishaad Salamat  on Bloomberg
Television’s “On the Move” today. The decline may come after
prices gain next month on demand ahead of Ramadan, Mistry said.  Lower prices of the most-used edible oil would help to curb
 global food costs  that rose for a third month in April to the
highest level since September. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said in
a May 14 report that agricultural commodities may lose 13
percent over 12 months, predicting declines for soybeans, corn
and wheat. Mistry has traded palm oil for about three decades.  “As production increases, demand has not kept pace,”
Mistry said in  Singapore . “Once the Ramadan demand is out of
the picture, prices will begin their downturn once again.” The
Muslim fasting month, when communal meals boost overall palm oil
consumption, starts in July this year.  Palm oil for delivery in August closed unchanged at 2,335
ringgit a ton on Bursa  Malaysia  Derivatives in Kuala Lumpur.
Prices, which last traded below 2,000 ringgit in 2009, have
dropped 4.2 percent this year following losses in 2012 and 2011.
A third consecutive annual drop this year would be the worst run
since at least 1996.  Outstrips Consumption  Palm oil is used in foods and fuels, and China and  India 
are the largest consumers. World stockpiles will gain 21 percent
to 9.59 million tons in 2012-2013 as supply outstrips
consumption, according to the U.S. Department of Agriculture.  Mistry’s price forecast is similar to calls in March, when
he said palm will drop to less than 2,000 ringgit on expanding
supplies and increased output of soybeans, which can be crushed
to supply a rival oil. He said today that the drop to 2,000
ringgit depends on Brent crude at between $90 to $110 a barrel,
and should Brent drop less than $90, palm would extend declines.  “In recent months, because of the fall in crude oil
prices, the attractiveness of biodiesel as a source of energy
has also diminished,” said Mistry. “Inventories are bottoming
out at present. Stocks in  Indonesia  are expected to recover and
begin to rise and will peak again sometime in the fourth
quarter.”  Record Stockpiles  Inventories in Indonesia may have dropped to 2.8 million
tons in April, according to a Bloomberg survey. That’s the
lowest level since October and 20 percent down from the
estimated all-time high of 3.5 million tons in January,
according to data from earlier surveys. Malaysia’s  reserves  have
shrunk 27 percent to 1.93 million tons in April from the record
in December, data from the nation’s palm oil board show.  Goldman is bearish on agricultural commodities on prospects
for increased supplies from Latin America as well as record
crops in the U.S. after drought last year, according to the
report. Soybeans in  Chicago , which traded at $14.65 a bushel
today, may drop to $12.50 in six months, Goldman forecast. The
U.S. Soybean Export Council has forecast a drop to less than
$10.  Brent crude traded at $104.18 a barrel today after losing
6.2 percent this year. Mistry said that biofuels accounted for
between 7 percent of 10 percent of total palm demand, with 80
percent used in foods and a further 10 percent by industry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ranjeetha Pakiam in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  