-- Pena Nieto’s Mexico Energy Reform Faces Delay in PAN Shakeup
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2013-05-21T19:19:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/pena-nieto-s-mexico-energy-reform-faces-delay-in-pan-shakeup.html
Mexico President Enrique Pena Nieto’s
reform agenda that includes legislation to end the monopoly of
state-owned  Petroleos Mexicanos  faces delays due to a shake-up
in the former ruling party’s leadership.  Former President  Felipe Calderon ’s  National Action Party ,
or PAN, yesterday ousted former Finance Minister  Ernesto Cordero 
from the Senate party leadership. The decision erodes the
political consensus parties have built in congress, complicating
the economic reform agenda, according to IdeaGlobal and Javier
Oliva, a political scientist at Mexico’s National Autonomous
University.  “What may happen is that factions of the party would vote
against part of an energy reform,” Oliva said in a telephone
interview from Cuernavaca, outside Mexico City. “It may slow
down the reform’s approval process.”  Pena Nieto has pledged to double the pace of economic
growth by passing reforms to open up the state-owned  oil company 
to private investment, boost tax revenue and spur competition in
sectors like telecommunications. A multiparty accord, led by
Pena Nieto’s  Institutional Revolutionary Party , or PRI, and  PAN 
that has sped up passage of reforms in Congress and that
recently resolved differences over vote buying allegations now
faces a divided PAN in the Senate, where it’s the second-largest
party.  Cordero, who will remain president of the Senate, confirmed
yesterday that 24 of 37 PAN senators wrote a letter backing his
leadership in the Senate.  Internal Division  The party’s internal divisions stem from differences over
its role as an opposition presence after losing the presidency
it held for 12 years in 2012, including how it should operate
within the Pact for Mexico political accord to pass economic
reforms.  Earlier this month the PAN resumed its activity within the
pact after suspending it in April on accusations the PRI used
government funds to buy votes ahead of July 7 local elections.  “The PAN can’t be a satellite of the PRI,” Cordero told
reporters yesterday. “I’m worried that the PAN is losing its
independence to the government.”  PAN President Gustavo Madero countered that Cordero has
been acting without consulting party leadership, such as
presenting a campaign finance bill a day after Madero had
announced one.  Under Cordero’s leadership, PAN senators have pushed
through changes to a telecommunications reform approved in
April, allowing companies to gain temporary injunctions during
trials. The senators also strengthened oversight of unions in a
labor law passed in November.  “The outlook on reform has become somewhat more
challenging and that in turn overflows into the investment
decision process,” said  Enrique Alvarez , the head of  Latin
America  for fixed income at research company IdeaGlobal. “If
there’s infighting, if there are more visible divisions and a
sort of questionable desire to work in unison going forward, I
think that’s going to complicate the investment” outlook.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  