-- Polish Industry Grows First Month in Three on Extra Working Day
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2013-05-21T12:08:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/polish-industry-grows-first-month-in-three-on-extra-working-day.html
Polish  industrial output  rose for the
first time in three months in April as an extra working day
helped boost production.  Output advanced 2.7 percent from a year earlier after
dropping 2.9 percent in March, the  Central Statistical Office  in
Warsaw said today. The median estimate of 27 economists in a
Bloomberg survey was for a 3 percent increase. Output fell 2.3
percent from March.  The European Union’s largest eastern economy expanded at
the slowest pace in four years in the first quarter as the euro
area’s longest-ever recession curbs demand for exports. To
combat the slowdown, the central bank has cut interest rates by
175 basis points since November to a record-low 3 percent.  “The recovery from a disastrous March is mainly due to
positive impact of the number of working days,” Ernest Pytlarczyk, chief economist at BRE Bank SA in Warsaw, wrote in
an e-mailed report before the data were released. “It’s not a
clear reversal of the trend.”  The zloty, the fourth-worst performer this year against the
euro among emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg with
a 2.5 percent decline, weakened after the data to 4.1902 at 2:06
p.m. in Warsaw, down 0.1 percent. The  yield  on the 10-year
government bond fell six basis points to 3.293 percent.  Producer prices  fell 2 percent from a year earlier in
April, the statistics office said today. Prices have fallen for
six straight months as companies grapple with weaker demand.  Manufacturing shrank the most in 45 months in April, HSBC
Holdings Plc. said May 2 in its purchasing managers’ survey. The
contraction deepened because of “sharper declines” in output
and new orders, while employment fell for an eighth month, HSBC
said.  “Weakness in domestic orders and deteriorating foreign
demand mean the manufacturing sector isn’t showing signs of
recovery,”  Rafal Benecki , chief economist at ING Bank Slaski
SA, said by e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  