-- Potato-Blight Strain in Irish Famine Is Identified by Scientists
-- B y   D a n   W e e k s
-- 2013-05-21T15:19:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/potato-blight-strain-in-irish-famine-is-identified-by-scientists.html
The Irish potato famine of the 1840s
was caused by a plant-pathogen strain that was unknown until
now, scientists said after examining dried leaves that were as
much as 170 years old.  A strain of Phytophthora infestans called HERB-1 that
probably emerged early in the 19th century caused the disaster,
the Tuebingen, Germany-based Max Planck Institute for
Developmental Biology  said  today in a statement on its website.
Until now, the US-1 strain was “long thought” to have been
responsible, it showed.  Ireland lost almost a quarter of its population to death or
emigration between 1845 and 1850,  according  to the website of
the Irish National Famine Museum in Strokestown, County
Roscommon. U.S. and European molecular biologists studied dried
plants to reconstruct the pathogen’s spread for research to be
published in the eLife journal, the statement showed.  “We have finally discovered the identity of the exact
strain that caused all this havoc,” the institute’s Hernan
Burbano said in the statement. HERB-1 is unique even though it
is related to US-1, according to the organization.  The scientists decoded the complete genomes of 11 samples
of Phytophthora infestans from potato leaves collected over more
than 50 years from Ireland, the U.K.,  Europe  and  North America ,
the institute said. The samples were preserved by the Botanical
State Collection Munich and Kew Gardens in  London , it said.  “The degree of DNA preservation in the herbarium samples
really surprised us,” Johannes Krause of the University of
Tuebingen, a co-author of the study, said in the statement.  In addition to Burbano and Krause, authors of the study
included Kentaro Yoshida of the  Sainsbury Laboratory  in Norwich,
 England , and Frank Martin of the  U.S. Department of Agriculture ,
the statement showed. Funding came from organizations including
the European Research Council and the Gatsby Charitable
Foundation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Weeks in London at   dweeks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  