-- Pound Slides to Six-Week Low Versus Dollar as Inflation Slows
-- B y   N e a l   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-05-21T15:49:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/pound-little-changed-versus-dollar-before-u-k-inflation-data.html
The pound slid to a six-week low
against the dollar after a government report showed inflation
slowed more than economists forecast, giving the central bank
more room to boost stimulus that tends to weaken a currency.  Sterling dropped versus all except one of its 16 major
counterparts before the  Bank of England  publishes the minutes of
its May 8-9 meeting tomorrow, which will reveal how many policy
makers voted to boost asset purchases at the gathering. U.K.
government bonds were little changed after rising when the
inflation data was released.  “This is a negative for sterling because quite clearly
weaker inflation opens the door for more monetary stimulus,”
said  Peter Frank , global head of head of currency strategy at
 Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA)  in  London . “It’s not a huge
undershoot but it’s a fairly weak number before tomorrow’s
crucial minutes. It cements investor decision-making to sell
sterling.”  The pound dropped 0.6 percent to $1.5157 at 4:32 p.m.
London time after falling to $1.5113, the lowest level since
April 4. The U.K. currency weakened 0.8 percent to 85.11 pence
per euro, the biggest decline since March 7.  Sterling has weakened 3 percent this year, the second-worst
performer after the yen among the 10 developed-nation currencies
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar
gained 4.8 percent and the euro rose 2.3 percent.  Inflation Slows  Consumer prices climbed 2.4 percent in April from a year
earlier, compared with 2.8 percent in March, the  Office for
National Statistics  said in London. The median forecast of 35
economists in a Bloomberg News survey was 2.6 percent. Producer
prices increased an annual 1.1 percent, the least since
September 2009.  “There’s a bit of outperformance in gilts,” said Simon Peck, a rates strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Plc in
London. “The inflation undershoot has the market concerned that
the reflation trade might be going away. I don’t think we’re
going to see any imminent stimulus on the back of this but it
very much keeps the door open to further gilt purchases.”  Gilts erased earlier gains amid speculation the  Federal
Reserve ’s minutes of its meeting this month will show U.S.
policy makers may taper the central bank’s bond-buying plan.  The 10-year  gilt yield  was at 1.92 percent after falling as
much as four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 1.87
percent. The 1.75 percent bond due September 2022 was at 98.57.  The so-called 10-year  break-even rate , a gauge of
expectations for inflation derived from the difference in yield
between gilts and index-linked securities, fell four basis
points to 3.09 percent after dropping to 3.08 percent, the least
since May 3.  U.K. government bonds handed investors a loss of 2 percent
this month through yesterday, according to indexes compiled by
Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial Analysts
Societies. German bunds fell 0.9 percent and Treasuries declined
1.2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neal Armstrong in London at 
 narmstrong8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  