-- Primus May Name Wind Power Storage Customer Next Month, CEO Says
-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 2013-05-21T22:45:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/primus-may-name-wind-power-storage-customer-next-month-ceo-says.html
Primus Power, a closely held battery
maker, may announce next month a third customer that’ll use its
systems to store excess power from a wind farm, according to
Chief Executive Officer Tom Stepien.  The project will be in an area with mostly hydro, coal-fired and wind generation on the local grid, where excess wind
power can become an issue depending on weather, Stepien said
today in an interview at the Electricity Storage Association’s
annual conference in  Santa Clara ,  California . He wouldn’t
identify the customer or say where the project will be located.  The company’s customers include the Modesto Irrigation
District and the U.S. Marine Corp. Primus’s systems consist of
“refrigerator-sized” batteries that are packed inside shipping
container-like “energy pods,” Stepien said. Because they’re
portable, they also may be used near utility substations, which
in some cases may delay the need to build new transmission, he
said.  Those applications already have attractive economics, and
“if you have a capital cost below $500 per kilowatt-hour, the
market really opens up,” Stepien said. “That’s the tipping
point.”  Utility Modesto is planning to use 28 megawatts of the
company’s batteries to provide as much as 3 hours of  energy
storage , Stepien said. A Marine Corps base in Miramar,
California, plans to use a single 250-kilowatt energy hub to
store power from a 230-kilowatt photovoltaic array, he said.  Flow Batteries  Primus, based in Hayward, California, expects to begin
those deliveries next year, Stepien said. Its  flow batteries 
have an electrolyte consisting of zinc-bromide that’s cycled
through a reaction chamber.  The company’s “early adopters” will be utilities and
operators of wind farms and solar arrays, Stepien said. “We
want to be an arms dealer to a lot of the integrators,” or
project developers, he said.  Robert Bosch GmbH  and  Raytheon Co. (RTN) 
are development partners for its Modesto and Miramar projects,
respectively.  Primus, which is backed by investors including Kleiner
Perkins Caufield & Byers, has raised $15 million in two funding
rounds and plans to complete its third before the end of the
year, Stepien said. It’s also received $17 million in government
grants that are being drawn down in phases, he said.  The company doesn’t plan to build any manufacturing plants,
which helps keep costs low, Stepien said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  