-- Pritzker’s $54 Million Family Trust Fee Seen as Unique
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s   a n d   Z a c h a r y   M i d e r
-- 2013-05-21T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/pritzker-s-54-million-family-trust-fee-seen-as-unique.html
Receiving $54 million in consulting
fees for a decade’s work on her own family’s offshore trusts is
unusual and probably saved U.S. Commerce Secretary nominee  Penny Pritzker  on taxes, according to estate experts.  “I don’t remember ever working on a trust that paid a
consulting fee to a beneficiary,” said Robert Lawrence,
chairman of the private client department at Cadwalader,
Wickersham & Taft LLP in  New York  who’s been specializing in
international trusts since the late 1960s. The $54 million “is
a very large amount of money and in my experience is very
unusual as a consultant’s fee, especially if it were to a
beneficiary.”  Financial disclosures released last week by President
 Barack Obama ’s nominee provide a rare inside look at some of the
trust strategies used by the Pritzkers, the founding family of
 Hyatt Hotels Corp. (H)  Pritzker is scheduled to appear May 23 before
the Senate Commerce Committee considering her nomination.  Pritzker would be among the wealthiest cabinet secretaries
in U.S. history, ranking with industrialist  Andrew Mellon , who
served as  Treasury secretary  during the 1920s. Her net worth is
more than $1.5 billion, according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires
Index .  The trusts Pritzker did the consulting work for a decade on
are based in the Bahamas, according to the disclosure documents.
They were created when Pritzker was young, and she doesn’t
control them and hasn’t received distributions from them, Susan
Anderson, a spokeswoman for Pritzker, said in an interview.  ‘Something Special’  “Someone needs to do something special to get $54
million,” for consulting, said Ryan Dudley, a partner in the
international tax services group at Friedman LLP in New York.
“If you go to  Goldman Sachs (GS)  or one of the investment banks and
they charge $54 million generally they have a team of people. If
this is just an individual working by herself it seems like a
big number.”  Pritzker, 54, gave advice on the restructuring, managing
and in some cases selling various trust investments for the
purpose of dividing assets along family lines, according to a
person familiar with her finances who asked not to be identified
because of confidentiality issues.  These investments included holdings in Marmon Corporation,
Hyatt International, Triton Container International and  Royal
Caribbean Cruise Lines (RCL) , and Pritzker also assisted the trustee
in implementing its decisions on matters such as preparing
companies to go public, the person said.  Negotiated Terms  The trustee of the offshore trusts determined and
negotiated the terms of her compensation during the 10-year
restructuring period and the payment was for that decade of
work, the person said.  “Only a small fraction of her fee came from trusts of
which she or her immediate family were beneficiaries; the vast
majority of her fee came from trusts whose beneficiaries were
other members of the Pritzker family,” spokeswoman Anderson
said in an e-mail. “She was particularly well suited to take on
this role because of her extensive business background, her in
depth knowledge of the assets being restructured and eventually
distributed.”  Other family members also have received consulting payments
from the trusts, the person familiar with her finances said. The
Commerce secretary nominee paid ordinary income taxes on the
consulting fees, according to the person.  “This certainly is unusual to have a family member
compensated to this degree,” said John Olivieri, a partner in
the private clients group at New York-based law firm White &
Case LLP who specializes in estate planning. “The whole thing
is unusual. The foreign trust, the compensation.”  Investment Banks  By comparison, Hyatt, majority owned by the Pritzkers,
hired 16 investment banks to sell $1.1 billion of its stock in a
2009 public offering. The banks collectively charged $56 million
in fees; the lead bank, Goldman Sachs Group Inc., collected
about $20 million.  When the Pritzkers agreed in 2007 to sell their industrial
manufacturer, Marmon Holdings, to  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , they relied on advice from Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. and Robert W. Baird & Co., a Milwaukee-based investment
bank. When they sold Triton in 2011,  Bank of America Corp. 
advised on the sale.  At one time, U.S. families set up trusts offshore for the
added benefit of letting the income accumulate tax-free until
distribution and for protection from creditors or lawsuits, said
Lawrence, of Cadwalader.  1969 Rule  A 1969 tax rule discouraged U.S. residents from using
offshore accounts. Since then, if gains from offshore trusts
aren’t distributed to beneficiaries and taxed in the year it’s
earned, the accumulated income will be levied at ordinary income
rates plus a “very hefty” interest charge, especially if
there’s a substantial amount of money held for a long time,
Lawrence said.  “If the $54 million were a distribution to a U.S.
beneficiary of accumulated income that had been held for a long
time, the tax, plus the interest charge, would have been
significantly greater,” Lawrence said.  Computing the interest charge is very complicated, said
Dudley of Friedman. The government tries to spread the income
over the years of accumulation and then collect tax and charge
interest over that time period, he said.  The  interest charge  plus the ordinary income taxes owed to
the federal government can eat up much if not all of the
earnings, and there may be state taxes as well, Dudley said. He
said he had a client with a trust that existed offshore for
about 20 years where the effective  tax rate  on distributions was
about 80 percent of the income.  “That didn’t leave much left,” Dudley said.  ‘Reasonable Payments’  If someone is a beneficiary of a trust it’s likely that he
or she would be considered a related party for the purposes of
rules around transactions that require reasonable payments, said
Dudley of Friedman. If it’s a related party, there’s a higher
standard of scrutiny for payments, Lawrence of Cadwalader said.  The trust lawyers specified that it’s hard to determine
whether the $54 million consulting payment was reasonable
without knowing the overall value of assets in the trusts, which
weren’t disclosed in the federal filing, and that there are
other unknowns such as how long the assets inside have
accumulated and exactly what consulting services were provided.  Consultants to trusts offer a variety of services such as
 investment management , tax planning, and administrative
services, said Scott Baker, president of Perspecta Trust in
Hampton,  New Hampshire , which provides trustee services, estate
planning and investment management for affluent families. They
would be paid for that role by the trust and they can be a
family member or beneficiary, he said.  No Control  Pritzker has requested that the trustee of the offshore
trusts for the benefit of her and her immediate family start a
process that will permit the appointment of a U.S. trustee,
though she doesn’t have control over the decision, Anderson,
Pritzker’s spokeswoman, said.  The nominee also received a total of $32.2 million in
consulting fees last year from 272 family trusts based in the
U.S., according to the disclosure form. She reported $1.2
million salary from the Horton Trust Co., which is the trustee
of her onshore trusts.  U.S.-based trusts that benefit Pritzker or her descendants
had Hyatt stock worth $352 million, and another $58 million was
held by the Bahamas trusts that benefit her, according to a
Hyatt filing with the U.S Securities and Exchange Commission in
April.  Her nomination has already has been criticized by
Republicans including Senator  Charles Grassley  of  Iowa  who
called Obama’s selection of a wealthy beneficiary of an offshore
trust as “hypocritical.” During the 2012 presidential race,
Obama’s campaign aired television ads accusing Republican
nominee  Mitt Romney , a co-founder of Bain Capital LLC, of
stashing his money overseas, including the  Cayman Islands .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Collins in New York at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  