-- Rand Slumps to 4-Year Low as Mine Violence Renews Labor Concerns
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2013-05-21T14:05:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/rand-weakens-to-four-year-low-before-start-of-mining-wage-talks.html
The rand declined for a ninth day,
weakening to a four-year low, as violent protests at a South
African chrome mine renewed concern that labor disruptions will
cut mining output and slow economic growth.  Seven people were injured in clashes between striking
workers and guards at a  Lanxess AG (LXS)  chrome mine at Rustenburg,
north of Johannesburg, the company said today. Labor unions are
demanding wage increases of as much as 60 percent from gold- and
coal-mining companies, boosting chances of more strikes as the
industry struggles to contain costs. A two-day stoppage at
 Lonmin Plc (LON) ’s Marikana platinum mine last week reignited concern
that rivalry between unions may lead to violence.  “The domestic labor situation continues to weigh on the
rand,” Mohammed Nalla, head of strategic research at  Nedbank
Group Ltd. (NED) , said by phone from Johannesburg. “The long-term
fundamentals for the rand remain negative.”  The rand weakened 1.3 percent to 9.5697 per dollar by 3:32
p.m. in Johannesburg, bringing its decline since May 8 to 5.9
percent in the longest losing streak in a year. The currency
earlier fell as low as 9.6264 per dollar, the worst intraday
level since March 2009. Yields on benchmark 10.5 percent bonds
due December 2026 rose 8 basis points, or 0.08 percentage point,
to a month-high 7.02 percent as demand slumped at a weekly
government auction of fixed-rate debt.  The rand may extend its decline to 9.70 per dollar after
breaching 9.55, a significant level of support for the currency,
Nalla said. Support and resistance are levels where traders
cluster orders to buy or sell a security or currency.  ‘Battle Lines’  Mining strikes cut about 15 billion rand ($1.6 billion)
from economic output last year, pushing the current-account
deficit to a four-year high and contributing to the rand’s 14
percent slide in the past 12 months. Metals and other
commodities accounted for 53 percent of  South Africa ’s exports
in 2012, according to government data.  “The battle lines are drawn ahead of the mining sector’s
upcoming wage negotiations,” Nomvuyo Guma, an analyst at
Standard Bank Group Ltd. in Johannesburg, said in e-mailed
comments. “Concerns over the possibility of further disruptive
strikes on the back of these wage demands have been a major
contributing factor to the rand’s recent renewed weakness.”  The rand’s three-month implied volatility versus the dollar
rose 48 basis points today to 13.78 percent, the highest since
November, as options traders anticipate wider swings in coming
months. The rand’s relative strength index rose to 75, trading
above the 70 level that indicates a currency is oversold, for a
second day.  Demand Halves  Demand for government debt more than halved at the National
Treasury’s weekly fixed-rate bond auction today, according to
central bank data. The Treasury sold 2.35 billion rand of bonds
maturing in 2023, 2031 and 2041, with investors bidding for 4.26
billion rand of debt, compared with 9.69 billion rand of bids at
the previous auction on May 14.  Bonds retreated on speculation the rand’s weakness is
reducing the South African  Reserve Bank ’s room to lower
borrowing costs on Thursday, when the Monetary Policy Committee
announces its decision. The central bank will leave its
benchmark repurchase rate unchanged at 5 percent, according to
19 out of 20 economists in a Bloomberg survey, with one
predicting a 25 basis-point cut.  “Even if the Reserve Bank had room to move rates lower in
terms of other factors, the tail risk of a much higher dollar-rand exchange rate and the vulnerability of the local currency
will provide enough of a disincentive for the bank to act,”
 George Glynos , an analyst at ETM Analytics, said in e-mailed
comments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  