-- Travelers Falls Most in Dow After Oklahoma Tornado
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2013-05-21T20:26:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/travelers-falls-most-in-dow-after-oklahoma-tornado.html
Travelers Cos. (TRV)  fell the most in the
 Dow Jones Industrial Average  as property insurers face losses
from a tornado two miles wide that flattened a suburb south of
 Oklahoma City  yesterday.  Travelers, the lone property insurer in the 30-company
average, sank 2.2 percent to $83.63 at 4:15 p.m. in New York.
 Allstate Corp. (ALL) , the largest publicly traded U.S. auto and home
insurer, declined 1.5 percent.  Rescue workers are searching for survivors of yesterday’s
storm, which cut a swath of devastation 20 miles (32 kilometers)
long through Moore, a city of about 55,000. At least 24 people
are dead, Amy Elliott, the state medical examiner’s chief
administrative officer, said today after a previous tally of as
many as 91 dead.  “Early reports are calling this tornado one of the largest
and most destructive in  Oklahoma  history,” Charles Sebaski, an
analyst at BMO Capital Markets, wrote in a note to clients
yesterday. “Tornado losses can be material, and this loss may
very well be in excess of” storms that struck Missouri and
 Alabama  in 2011, he said.  Those tornadoes pressured insurers’ results, wiping out a
quarter of profit at New York-based Travelers and Allstate. The
number of tornadoes fell to  939 last year  from 1,691 in 2011,
according to the  National Weather Service . About 250 of the
storms had been reported through May 16 this year.  Policyholder-owned State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance
Co. is the biggest underwriter of homeowner’s coverage in
Oklahoma by policy sales, according to 2011 A.M. Best Co. data
compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Horrible Caliber’  “This mirrors Joplin, for sure,” Jim Camoriano, a
spokesman for State Farm, said in a phone interview of the
Missouri town struck two years ago. “It is the same horrible
caliber of disaster.” He said it was still too early to
estimate claims.  The Joplin storm was the costliest tornado ever, with
economic losses of about $2.8 billion, according to a report
today from insurance broker Aon Plc. A 1999 storm that struck
Moore ranked fifth, with $1.4 billion of losses, adjusted for
inflation, according to Aon.  Farmers Insurance, which has a management relationship with
 Zurich Insurance Group AG (ZURN) , was No. 2 in the Oklahoma homeowners
market. Zurich climbed about 0.2 percent in Swiss trading today.
Mark Toohey, a spokesman for Farmers, said in a phone interview
that the insurer will proactively contact policyholders about
claims and has “all hands on deck.”  Claims Offices  Travelers has sent mobile claims offices to the affected
area and will maintain additional resources in Oklahoma “as
long as necessary,” said Patrick Linehan, a spokesman.  Allstate’s April Eaton said the Northbrook, Illinois-based
insurer dispatched personnel to the area and has seen “very
severe” damage.  Yesterday’s tornado was at least an EF-4 storm, said Ryan
Barnes, a weather service meteorologist in Norman, Oklahoma. An
EF-4, one level below the most powerful ranking, has wind gusts
of 166 to 200 miles per hour.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  