-- RBA Cut Rate to Boost Business; Households Start to Respond
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-05-21T03:49:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/rba-cut-rate-to-boost-business-households-start-to-respond-1-.html
The  Reserve Bank of Australia  cut its
benchmark  interest rate  to a record low this month to boost
businesses weakened by the currency’s sustained strength, even
as households reacted to earlier reductions.  “Conditions in the business sector, as assessed in
surveys, generally had remained below average, possibly in part
because the exchange rate had remained high,” the RBA said in
 minutes  of its May 7 meeting released today in Sydney.
“Increasingly, the household sector had shown signs of
responding to” lower rates.  Governor  Glenn Stevens  and his board have slashed borrowing
costs by 2 percentage points over the past 19 months to 2.75
percent, joining global counterparts in embracing record-low
rates in an economy where inflation is contained, mining
spending is predicted to crest, and credit growth stays subdued.
Stevens aims to rebalance growth from mining regions in the
north and west to builders and manufacturers in the south and
east.  That task has been complicated by the local dollar’s surge
from an October-2008 low that has hurt exporters and
manufacturers, forcing them and others companies to adapt.  The Australian dollar remained “high by historical
standards despite depreciating a little against most
currencies,” the minutes said. “The bank’s liaison suggested
that firms remained cautious about hiring staff.”  The so-called Aussie was at 98.10 U.S. cents as of 1:37
p.m. in Sydney, from 97.70 before the minutes were published.  Capital Inflows  This month’s rate cut, which the RBA today described as
“appropriate to encourage sustainable growth,” followed the
slowest core consumer price growth in 14 years in the first
quarter. Business confidence also remains weak.  The previous low for  Australia ’s  benchmark borrowing cost 
was 2.89 percent in January 1960, according to the central bank.
Australia, which hasn’t recorded a current account surplus since
1975, typically maintains higher benchmark interest rates than
other developed economies in order to attract capital inflows to
offset its current account deficit.  “The effects of stimulatory monetary policy were
continuing to emerge,” the RBA said. “Improved conditions in
the housing market and strong  population growth  were also
expected to support dwelling investment and household spending
more generally.”  Home Prices  Australian  home-loan approvals  rose the most in four years
in March, advancing 5.2 percent from the prior month, government
data showed May 13. Retail sales had their biggest back-to-back
gain in almost four years over the first two months of 2013,
before falling 0.4 percent in March.  Australia’s currency, which didn’t rise above 85 U.S. cents
between 1990 and 2006, hasn’t dropped below that level in almost
three years. Its strength is helping damp import costs.  The inflation report for last quarter showed price declines
were “widespread across items despite the relative stability of
the exchange rate over the past couple of years,” the RBA said.
“Members discussed the downward pressures on domestic costs and
margins and the resulting declines in tradables prices, and
whether these pressures would continue.”  The U.S.,  Europe  and  Japan  have cut rates to a record to
stimulate demand. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has
kept the key U.S. rate near zero for more than four years, while
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  earlier this month
said policy makers are ready to cut again after reducing its
benchmark to a record low 0.5 percent.  Economic Transition  Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said in the budget released last week
that the government’s books wouldn’t be balanced until 2016.
Treasury projected unemployment would rise to 5.75 percent by
June 2014, from 5.5 percent last month, as the economy undergoes
a “substantial transition” from resource investment to growth
led by industries like housing construction.  The resources sector “is transitioning from the largest
investment boom in our history to the ’production and exports
phase,’” Martin Parkinson, secretary to the Treasury, said in
the text of a speech to economists in Sydney today. “We do not
expect the increase in resource production to be enough to
offset the decline in resource investment. Accordingly, the net
contribution of the resource sector to real GDP growth is
expected to fall.”  As a result, non-resource sectors of the economy will need
to pick up, he said. “This transition will be supported by low
interest rates, but challenged by continued weakness in the
global economy and a persistently high Australian dollar, even
after the welcome falls in the past week,” he said.  Below Trend  The RBA said in the minutes that growth in economic
activity was expected to be a little below trend this year,
picking up gradually to be close to trend through 2014.  “The near-term forecast reflected the slowing in overall
business investment, given the peak in the mining investment
boom along with the effects of fiscal consolidation and the high
level of the  exchange rate ,” the minutes showed.  The RBA has noted the continued strength of the currency,
even as commodity prices fall. The nation’s economy has been
boosted by a mining investment expansion to meet resource demand
in emerging nations like  China .  “Members noted that the nature of mining investment was
changing,” the minutes showed. “There had been some pull-back
in coal investment plans in the previous year and a significant
amount of investment in iron ore projects had been completed. In
contrast, a larger share of ongoing mining investment related to
liquefied natural gas projects, which were based on long-term
supply contracts. This characteristic implied less uncertainty
about mining investment arising from volatility in commodity
prices over the next couple of years.”  Traders are pricing in a 25 percent chance the central bank
will lower borrowing costs by a quarter percentage point to 2.5
percent next month, according to  interest-rate swaps  data
compiled by Bloomberg. The RBA’s next scheduled meeting is on
June 4.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  