-- Red Carnation Buys Ireland’s Landmark Ashford Castle
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 2013-05-22T09:00:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/red-carnation-buys-ireland-s-ashford-castle.html
Ashford Castle, Ireland’s most-expensive hotel per night, was bought by  Red Carnation Hotels
U.K. Ltd.  for an undisclosed price as trophy properties are sold
in the wake of the country’s real estate crash.  The landmark 83-room property, where scenes of “The Quiet
Man” starring John Wayne were filmed, was sold on behalf of
receiver Ernst & Young Ltd. through broker  Savills Plc (SVS) , E&Y said
in a statement late yesterday.  “Ashford Castle is the jewel in the crown of Irish
hospitality,” Tom Barrett, head of Savills’s hotel and leisure
unit in Ireland said in the statement. “It is a strong vote of
confidence in the future of the industry from a leading
international hotel and travel group.”  The average room rate was about 315 euros ($405) a night
last July, Savills’s Barrett said in October, when the hotel was
put up for sale, citing data compiled by STR Global. The asking
price at that time was 25 million euros. Irish developer Gerry Barrett paid 50 million euros for the hotel in 2007, according
to the Irish Times. Income-producing properties in Ireland have
lost about two-thirds of their value on average since 2007,
according to Investment Property Databank Ltd.  Ashford Castle, on 365 acres (148 hectares) of land, is
about 240 kilometers (150 miles) west of Dublin near the village
of Cong. It attracted bidders from the U.K., Europe, Asia, the
U.S. and  Australia , according to the statement.  Golf Course  A plan to develop 13 penthouse bedrooms, 30 lodges and
extend the 9-hole golf course to 18 holes was drawn up and never
completed, London-based Savills said in a statement when the
hotel went up for sale.  Red Carnation is a closely held hotelier that runs 14 four-and five-star properties, including the Rubens at the Palace,
the closest hotel to London’s Buckingham Palace, according to
its  website .  Lloyds Banking Group Plc’s (LLOY)  Bank of  Scotland  (Ireland) unit
appointed a receiver to Ashford Castle Properties Ltd. and
Ashford Castle Estate Ltd. in November 2011, according to Iris
Oifigiuil, the Irish State Gazette.  The 501-bedroom Burlington Hotel in Dublin is among other
trophy properties put up for sale last year. The asking price in
August was as much as 75 million euros, about a quarter of what
an Irish developer had paid five years earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neil Callanan in  London  at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 