-- Rousseff Has Support to Change Mining Code, Governor Says
-- B y   J o s h u a   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-05-21T13:23:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/rousseff-has-support-to-change-mining-code-governor-says.html
Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff 
will have support in Congress to raise taxes on mining companies
even as she struggles to win backing from her allies on other
key measures, said Antonio Anastasia, governor of  Minas Gerais 
state.  Rousseff had to negotiate a last-minute deal with her
majority coalition in the lower house before a May 16 deadline
to ratify a decree overhauling the nation’s ports. She also
struggled to build support among allies to divvy up royalties
from recently discovered oil finds, leaving it to the nation’s
 Supreme Court  to resolve the impasse.  Anastasia, in an interview, said there’s no reason for
changes to the mining code to generate that kind of political
friction. Mining takes place in almost all of  Brazil ’s 26 states
while oil production is concentrated in a handful of areas. It’s
also in companies’ interest to clear up quickly the regulatory
uncertainty, he said.  “Mining royalties are very low, almost ridiculously low
compared to oil,” Anastasia, of the opposition Social Democracy
Party, or PSDB, said in  New York  last week. “Raising rates from
2 percent to 4 percent as is being discussed won’t fuel anyone’s
greed.”  The government charges special participation taxes of as
much as 40 percent on oil projects.  ‘Soap Opera’  Brazil, the world’s second-largest iron-ore exporter, has
been debating since at least 2008 revisions that include higher
royalties on mining projects. The delay is hanging over
companies such as Vale SA and threaten to delay investments
needed to ramp up economic growth, Anastasia said.  “It’s a long-running soap opera,” he said, referring to
the delays which he says have “paralyzed” investments in his
state, the country’s biggest producer of iron-ore.  Banco Santander SA (SAN) , in a report last week, said the debate
on ports exposed a rift in Rousseff’s base and foreshadows a
more exhausting debate over the mining code. To accomplish its
goal of opening ports to private investment, the government had
to back down from provisions that would have wrested control of
existing ports from local authorities.  Brazilian Delegation  Anastasia traveled to New York as part of a delegation of
Brazilian officials that included Jacques Wagner, governor of
Bahia state in the country’s northeast. The two met with
investors to draw attention to business opportunities in their
states, which bucked a national downturn in growth and
investment last year.  Gross domestic product in Minas Gerais, the country’s
second-biggest state by population and manufacturing capacity,
expanded 2 percent last year, more than double the  national rate 
of 0.9 percent. In Bahia, GDP climbed 3.1 percent.  In Bahia, where  Kimberly-Clark Corp. (KMB)  and Anhui Jianghuai
Automobile Group Co.’s JAC Motors have announced investments in
the past two years, there’s a pipeline of projects through at
least 2016, said Wagner.  “I confess I haven’t noticed a drop in investment at
all,” said Wagner, a former labor minister for Rousseff’s
predecessor and mentor,  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva . “What I do
more than anything else is meet with companies that want to
invest in my state.”  Suspension Bridge  Like Anastasia, Wagner says the biggest drag on Brazil’s
economic growth is a lack of quality infrastructure, especially
in poorer provinces outside the more-developed southeast.  To overcome a transportation bottleneck and attract
manufacturing, he hired McKinsey & Co. Inc. to ready the ground
for an auction to build a bridge spanning Todos os Santos bay
between  Salvador  and the undeveloped island of Itaparica.  The 12-kilometer (7.5-mile) bridge, with an estimated price
tag of 5 billion reais ($2.5 billion), would be Brazil’s second
largest, nearly matching one built by the 1964-1985 dictatorship
that connects  Rio de Janeiro  with sister city Niteroi.  “I want to build mine just a little bit shorter so nobody
gets jealous,” said Wagner, who was born in Rio and moved to
Bahia as an engineering student fleeing the generals then in
power. “It’s a postcard that any international construction
company would love to show.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Goodman in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  