-- Royal Mail Doubles Earnings as Web Retailing Boosts Parcels
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2013-05-21T11:37:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/royal-mail-doubles-earnings-as-web-retailing-boosts-parcels-1-.html
Royal Mail  Group Ltd., the state-owned postal service that the U.K. government is looking to
sell, said full-year profit more than doubled as growth in web-based shopping spurred parcel deliveries.  Operating profit for the 52 weeks ending March 31 was 403
million pounds ($611 million), versus 152 million pounds a year
earlier, Royal Mail said in a  statement . While sales gained 5
percent to 9.28 billion pounds, parcel revenue rose 9 percent.  “Parcels are a major contributor,” Chief Executive Officer
Moya Greene said in the release. “Our strong brand, extensive
networks and high quality of service makes us well placed to
benefit from our leading position in the parcels market.”  Royal Mail, one of Britain’s biggest employers with about
150,000 staff, has sought to adapt its letter-focused network to
more lucrative package delivery in the face of competition from
 TNT Express NV (TNTE)  of the Netherlands and  Deutsche Post AG (DPW) ’s DHL
Express unit. The 360 year-old company handled 1.46 billion
parcels in the year, spurred by demand from e-retail clients.  ‘Encouraging’  The U.K. government said the earnings figures indicated
efforts to put Royal Mail on a sustainable footing were
succeeding and confirmed plans for a share sale in the fiscal
year ending March 31 to bring access to private capital.  “These results from Royal Mail are another encouraging
step,” Business Minister  Michael Fallon  said in an e-mailed
statement. “We are committed to a sale but its structure and
timing remain open.”  Royal Mail this month appointed Equitini Group to manage
the distribution of 10 percent of its shares to employees
following any sale.  The company reports operating profit after “transformation”
costs. Before those expenses it had earnings before interest,
tax, depreciation and amortization of 915 million pounds, of
which 665 million pounds was reinvested, mainly into expanding
parcel activities and “managing the decline” of letter volumes.  A modernization plan to automate letter handling has seen
the closure of nine mail centers this year and 25 in total.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  