-- Sanofi, Roll Global, Heineken, WWE: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-05-21T11:06:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/sanofi-roll-global-heineken-wwe-intellectual-property.html
Sanofi (SAN)  won a U.S. appeals court
ruling yesterday that revives a patent-infringement claim over
generic versions of the allergy drug Allegra.  A trial judge erred in interpreting a patent on the drug
that covers a process to make the active ingredient in the
medicine, the  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit said
in an opinion posted on the court’s website. The appeals court
remanded the case for further proceedings based on the new
understanding of what the patent covers.  In dispute is patent 5,750,703, which was issued in May
1998.  The case is Aventis Pharmaceuticals v. Amino Chemicals
Ltd., 11-1335, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit
(Washington). The lower court cases are Aventis Pharmaceuticals
v. Mylan Pharmaceuticals, 2:04-cv-01077-GEB-MCA, and Aventis
Pharmaceuticals v. Teva Pharmaceuticals USA Inc., 2:04-cv-01078-GEB-MCA, U.S. District Court, District of  New Jersey  (Newark).  CEA, BSA Line Up in Support of Patent-Ownership Disclosure Bill  The  Consumer Electronics Association  endorsed a measure
that would require ownership data to be attached to U.S.
patents.  The Arlington, Virginia-based trade group of consumer-products manufacturers said it approved the End of Anonymous
Patents Act, which was introduced May 16 by U.S. Representative
Ted Deutch, a  Florida  Democrat.  The measure --  H.R. 2024  -- would require disclosure of any
change of ownership to the U.S. Patent and  Trademark Office 
within 90 days of the change. The disclosure would include any
party with the legal right to enforce the patent, as well as any
parent company or controlling entity.  Any party that failed to disclose this information would
have damages available only from the date at which this
information is made public.  In a  statement  issued at the time he introduced the bill,
Deutch said that so-called patent trolls “go to great lengths
to conceal the relevant ownership and interests involved,”
adding that the ownership information would “bring much-needed
transparency to our patent system.”  The CEA said in its  statement  that patent trolls -- also
known as “non-practicing entities” because they don’t produce
products or provide services covered by the patents --“penalize
innovators and drive up prices for consumers.”  The  Business Software Alliance , a Washington-based trade
group whose members include  Intel Corp. (INTC) ,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ,  Oracle
Corp. (ORCL)  and  Symantec Corp. (SYMC) , also endorsed the proposed
legislation. In its  statement , the BSA said if enacted, the bill
will “improve technology adoption and licensing by making it
easier for potential users of patented inventions to identify
and connect with patent holders so they can agree on terms.”  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Roll Global Unit Sells ‘Cuties,’ Will Shed ‘Wonderful’ Oranges  Billionaire Stewart Resnick’s Roll Global’s  Paramount
Citrus  unit is divesting itself of the “Cuties” trademark used
for mandarin oranges, the company said in a statement.  The brand will go to  Sun Pacific , a 44-year-old producer
grower based in  Pasadena ,  California . Previously Sun Pacific and
Paramount jointly owned the brand.  Paramount Citrus will partner with Fresno-based  Fowler
Packing  to build a new brand for mandarins, according to the
statement. They will be sold under the same “Wonderful” label
used for pistachios, almonds and  pomegranates , the company said.
The Wonderful brands are part of Roll Global.  Next year Paramount Citrus will also being selling  Texas 
red grapefruit under the “Wonderful” label,’’ the company
said.  The “cuties” name was the subject of a trademark suit
filed in federal court in  Los Angeles  last year. Paramount sued
Sun Pacific’s  Califia Farms  unit, claiming its sale of juice
under the “Cuties” trademark violated their licensing
agreement. Paramount dismissed the case in April 2012.  That case was Paramount Citrus Packing Co. v. Califia Farms
LP, 2:12-cv-02415-R-RZ, U.S. District Court, Central District of
California (Los Angeles).  Cancellation of Heineken’s Russian ‘Krusovice’ Mark Barred  The Moscow Commercial Court refused to terminate trademark
registration for  Heineken NV (HEIA) ’s “Krusovice” trademark, the
Russian Legal Information Service  reported .  Moscow-based  AquaLife , a beverage company that is a
parallel importer of the  Krusovice  beer -- which is brewed in
the Czech Republic -- had sought the mark’s cancellation so that
it could use the name, according to RAPSI.  Russia’s Supreme Commercial Court said in November than
parallel imports are illegal, RAPSI reported.  AquaLife is also seeking termination of  Diageo Plc (DGE) ’s
“Guinness” trademark in Russia after a Russian appeals court
upheld a lower court’s ruling barring AquaLife’s parallel import
of Guinness, according to RAPSI.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  WWE ‘Entrance-Music’ Copyright Suit Stays in Texas, Court Says  World Wrestling Entertainment Inc. must face copyright
claims in Texas, a federal court ruled.  Composer James D. “Papa” Berg of Irving, Texas, sued the
 Stamford , Connecticut-based sports-entertainment company in
federal court in  Dallas  in July. He claimed the company was
making use of his music without authorization.  Berg composed a series of works used as entrance songs for
wrestlers as they come into the arena. He said in his pleadings
that he learned that WWE had improperly registered the works
under the company’s name, which diverted the royalty stream.  He claimed that the company was using this music without
his permission on a round-the-clock cable channel, and as ring
tones fans could buy.  WWE had sought to have the suit moved out of Texas, saying
it didn’t have enough of a presence in the state to justify
trying the case there. U.S. District Judge Jane Boyle disagreed,
saying in her May 15 order that WWE failed to show good reason
why the case would be better tried in Connecticut.  She said that the company’s wrestling-match programs are
available in Texas, and that WWE products are offered for sale
in the state, with the company knowingly benefited from Texas.
She said that Texas “has a definite interest in insuring that
one of its citizens be able to prosecute his claims at home.”  Judge Boyle did reject some of Berg’s claims, saying they
were already covered by his copyright-infringement allegations.  The case is Papa Berg Inc. v.  World Wrestling Entertainment
Inc. (WWE) , 3:12-cv-02406-B, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
Texas (Dallas).  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  McCartney Concert Ticket Pre-Sales Trade Secret, City Claims  The city of  Orlando , Florida, said the promoter of the  May
18 concert  featuring former Beatle  Paul McCartney  has insisted
that information about buyers of pre-sale tickets at face-value
prices is a trade secret, the Orlando Sentinel  reported .  The musician performed at a city-owned venue and  Barbara
Peterson , president of the state’s  First Amendment Foundation ,
told the Sentinel that this is enough reason to release the
data.  An editorial writer for the newspaper argues that ticket
pre-sales -- driven by concert promoters and the  music industry 
-- puts the average consumer at a disadvantage, with as much as
80 percent of tickets for an event already sold before public
sales are announced.  At a recent Taylor Swift concert at the facility, more than
80 percent of the tickets were pre-sold to members of the
singer’s fan club, season ticket-holders for the Orlando Magic,
American Express cardholders, and media and VIPS, the newspaper
reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 