-- Schaeffler Profit Falls on Weaker Demand for Industrial Goods
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h   R a u w a l d
-- 2013-05-21T09:28:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/schaeffler-profit-falls-on-weaker-demand-for-industrial-goods.html
Schaeffler AG, the family-owned
bearing maker that’s the biggest investor in car-parts producer
 Continental AG (CON) , said profit fell as gains at the automotive unit
failed to offset weaker demand at its industrial division.  First-quarter earnings before interest and taxes dropped 11
percent to 355 million euros ($457 million) from 401 million
euros a year earlier, Herzogenaurach, Germany-based Schaeffler
said today in a  statement . Sales fell 3.6 percent to 2.76
billion euros.  “Although we are not anticipating a quick recovery of the
European markets, we are expecting a modest increase in global
automobile production for 2013,” Schaeffler Chief Executive
Officer Juergen Geissinger said. “Given the ongoing
uncertainties, we are not anticipating a positive impetus in the
various industrial markets until the latter half of the year.”  European Union car sales rose in April for the first time
since September 2011, adding to signs that the 27-nation bloc’s
economic woes may ease. German factory orders increased for a
second month in March.  Consumer confidence  in the EU gained last
month to the highest level since July, according to the European
Commission.  The company reiterated it is targeting revenue growth of
about 4 percent this year on the back of rising automotive
demand in  North America  and  Asia . The Ebit margin is forecast to
be about 13 percent of sales. The margin declined to 12.9
percent in the first quarter from 14 percent a year earlier.  Net debt narrowed by 300 million euros to 6.8 billion euros
as of March 31, Schaeffler said today. Chief Financial Officer
Klaus Rosenfeld pledged on March 21 to work on reducing
financing costs further in 2013.  Schaeffler plans next year to end a shareholding accord
with Continental,  Europe ’s second-largest auto-parts supplier
and its No. 2 tiremaker, as it continues to dismantle a plan for
a gradual merger. Both companies have said they plan to maintain
cooperation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christoph Rauwald in Frankfurt at 
 crauwald@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  