-- Scotiabank’s Waugh Says Shorting Canada Banks Is Expensive
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2013-05-21T21:03:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/scotiabank-ceo-says-shorting-canada-banks-expensive-proposition.html
Investors who are short selling
Canadian banks are making an “expensive” gamble, said  Bank of
Nova Scotia  Chief Executive Officer  Richard Waugh .  “Good luck to them,” Waugh, 65, said today at the
Bloomberg  Canada  Summit. “Never mind the history, never mind
current results, we have this very pleasant thing of increasing
our dividend quite regularly and if you’re short, you’re really
short.”  Fund managers including Toronto-based Friedberg Mercantile
Group Ltd. have said they’re betting against Canadian banks amid
concern that the housing market may collapse. Emrys Partners LP
founder Steve Eisman, who gained fame betting against U.S.
subprime mortgages, said at the Sohn Investment Conference in
 New York  on May 8 that he’s pessimistic about Canada’s housing
market, saying rising prices weren’t accompanied by growth in
personal incomes.  Investors had a short interest in 3.45 percent of the
Canadian bank shares available to the public as of April 30,
according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the highest in
at least 10 months and more than the 2.35 percent at the end of
last year. Short sellers profit from price declines by selling
borrowed securities and repurchasing them at cheaper levels.  Consumer Slowdown  Scotiabank, Canada’s third-largest lender by assets, has
been countering a slowdown in  consumer lending  by adding
products and businesses, including its C$3.1 billion ($3
billion) takeover in November of  ING Groep NV (INGA) ’s Canadian
operations. The deal added about 1.8 million customers using
products such as high-interest  savings accounts , checking
accounts and mortgages.  “That is a game-changer for us, it’s deposits but it’s
also a very unique delivery channel with a unique set of
customers,” Waugh said. “That is going to be a growth
vehicle.”  Scotiabank has more room to grow in Canada through market-share gains, expanding mutual-fund sales and its  wealth-management  business and pursuing acquisitions, Waugh said.  “There’s more to come in wealth management in Canada,”
Waugh said. “We’re late in the game in insurance. There’s more
we can do there. There’s parts of this country where we need to
do better in market share.”  Rate Worries  Waugh also said he agrees with Canada’s banking regulator
on its concerns about the impact of low  interest rates  on
banking. Julie Dickson, who heads the Office of the
Superintendent of Financial Institutions, said earlier in the
conference that the current period of low interest rates
threatens to increase risks for the country’s lenders.  “Low interest rates are an issue,” Waugh said. “I also
equally worry about high interest rates and what they do.”  Scotiabank is closely monitoring its loan portfolios and
risk amid a “soft landing” for Canada’s housing market, Waugh
said.  “Most importantly, our customers are behaving exactly like
they should and our portfolios are reflecting that, and it’s
looking very well,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net ;
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  