-- Sensato Doubts Japan Stock Valuation After Hedge Fund’s 15% Gain
-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 2013-05-21T03:01:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/sensato-doubts-japan-stock-valuation-after-hedge-fund-s-15-gain.html
Sensato Capital Management LLC , the
Man Group Plc-backed manager of $1.3 billion assets, said
Japanese stock valuations are no longer attractive after its
Asia hedge fund returned 15 percent this year through April.  The Sensato Asia-Pacific Master Fund returned almost 7
percent in April, the second-strongest monthly performance since
it opened to investors in June 2010, according to a newsletter
to investors. Bets on rising Japanese stocks were a big
contributor, the San Francisco-based manager added.  The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average  surged  almost 12 percent last
month to the  highest  level since 2008 after the  Bank of Japan 
said it will double the monetary base in its biggest round of
quantitative easing. The gauge has  jumped  more than 70 percent
since the end of September on expectations that unprecedented
stimulus by Prime Minister Shinzo Abe and the central bank will
end 15 years of deflation.  “Investors have aggressively sought to gain exposure to
reflationary themes, paying scant attention to company
fundamentals,” according to Sensato’s newsletter. “While the
Japanese market is no longer attractively  valued , earnings and
sentiment trends suggest potential for further nominal
appreciation.”  Sensato’s co-founders Ernest Chow and Jonathan Howe as well
as Chief Operating Officer Meme Scherr didn’t reply to e-mail
messages seeking comment on the newsletter.  ‘Very Stretched’  New capital flooding into the market has driven up prices
of already expensive stocks, especially those with high
borrowings and long-duration cash flows, Sensato said. Japanese
real estate, financial and utility stocks are among those with
“very stretched” valuations, it added.  Investor sentiment has posed challenges for fundamental
stock selection in the near term, it said. The fund lost money
on some of its stock picks based on company fundamentals,
according to the newsletter.  An example is Hulic Co., a Japanese property developer
whose stock price jumped 40 percent last month to  trade  at 4
times book value and more than 30 times expected earnings, the
newsletter said. Hulic’s share price has fallen 4 percent this
month.  Sensato said it will probably keep bets on overvalued
Japanese stocks, such as Hulic, to fall. The fund has tightened
controls to curb potential losses from single stocks and
industries most affected by the changing investment and economic
environment in the country.  Computer Model  The Sensato fund has returned a cumulative 70 percent since
inception, more than triple the 21 percent gain in the
Eurekahedge Asian Hedge Fund Index. It has made profits in each
of the years, according to the newsletter. The Eurekahedge index
rose 9 percent in the first four months of 2013.  Sensato was set up in May 2009 by Chow and Howe, former co-heads of active-equity strategies at  Barclays Global Investors .
It uses computer models to screen stocks by generating forecasts
of returns and allows human judgment to override systematic
signals in situations such as the earthquake and tsunami in
 Japan  in 2011, a person familiar with the fund told  Bloomberg
News  last year.  Sensato opened the fund to investors in June 2010 after
starting initially with money from friends and family, according
to a statement in October 2010. It stopped accepting new money
into the fund in September.  FRM Capital Advisors, a division of Financial Risk
Management Ltd., the London-based fund-of-funds manager that was
acquired by Man Group Plc last year, became its first
institutional investor in September 2010, according to the
statement. The U.K. manager invested $50 million with Sensato,
Sensato said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in  Hong Kong  at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  