-- Shell CEO Says Too Early to Speculate About Oil Probe
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t   a n d   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2013-05-21T14:41:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/shell-ceo-says-it-s-too-early-to-speculate-about-oil-price-probe.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  Chief Executive
Officer  Peter Voser  said it’s too early to speculate about the
European oil-price fixing probe and the company is committed to
the “highest standard of corporate behavior.”  Shell, BP Plc and  Statoil ASA (STL)  are targets of a European
Commission inquiry into whether prices of crude, refined oil
products and biofuels were manipulated, potentially harming
consumers.  Platts , a price assessor owned by  McGraw Hill
Financial Inc. (MHFI) , was also questioned as the probe was announced
last week.  “Since the investigation has just commenced it would be
inappropriate to speculate about the outcome,” Voser told
shareholders at the company’s annual general meeting in The
Hague today. Shell is committed “to achieve the highest
standard of corporate behavior.”  The commission is trying to determine whether  oil companies 
colluded to distort prices in the $3.4 trillion global crude
market and in markets for fuel products. The probe has
highlighted that some energy markets lack the transparency of
stocks and bonds.  Shell Chief Financial Officer Simon Henry told reporters
the company doesn’t know the exact focus of the probe and that
it could go on for a long time. Platts’s price-assessment
process is “as transparent as it can be,” he said.  “It’s important to bear in mind at this stage it’s just an
investigation into facts and evidence and no adverse finding has
been made,” Voser said today. “All Shell companies have fully
cooperated with the EU investigation and will continue to do so
going forward.”  Platts’s North Sea Dated Brent benchmark sets the price of
half the world’s crude, from Canada to Australia. Its kerosene
assessments are used by the  airline industry , where fuel
accounts for about a third of operating costs. In the biofuels
markets, the company assesses the price of ethanol and biodiesel
as well as ethyl tert-butyl ether, an additive that’s used in
gasoline production.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net ;
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  