-- SocGen’s Russian Unit Said to Cut Hundreds of Jobs in Moscow
-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i   a n d   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 2013-05-22T07:33:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/socgen-s-russian-unit-said-to-cut-hundreds-of-jobs-in-moscow.html
Societe Generale SA (GLE) ’s Russian
consumer-banking unit, OAO  Rosbank (ROSB) , is cutting hundreds of back
office jobs as it continues cost-reduction efforts, two people
with knowledge of the matter said.  Rosbank is eliminating the positions at its Moscow
headquarters, the people said, asking not to be identified
because the matter is confidential. The Russian firm employs
about 13,500 people. Officials at  Societe Generale  and Rosbank
declined to comment when reached by telephone.  Societe Generale,  France ’s second-largest bank by  market
value , aims to attain 900 million euros ($1.16 billion) of cost
savings by 2015 globally, with half the effort coming from its
consumer-banking businesses, the Paris-based lender said May 7,
without giving more details on Russian cost cuts.  Societe Generale, based in Paris, merged Rosbank with its
other Russian branch network BSGV in 2011, while mortgage lender
DeltaCredit and consumer lender Rusfinance both became Rosbank’s
fully owned subsidiaries at the start of that year.  Rosbank reduced its workforce by 2,700 positions between
August 2011 and the end of 2012, according to its annual report.
Societe Generale  owns  82.4 percent of the unit, which operates
700 branches in 340 Russian cities and towns, according to its
website.  Russian Profit  Societe Generale’s 2015 plans in  Russia , aimed at creating
“a unique team and corporate culture for Russian
subsidiaries,” include the “modernization” of  information
systems , according to a Rosbank presentation posted on its
website in March. The Russian company is cutting administrative
expenses and introducing “a new risk assessment system,” it
said.  Societe Generale, alongside Italy’s  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and
Vienna-based  Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI) , is among Western
banks that are keeping a retail presence in Russia after rivals
such as Barclays Plc and HSBC Holdings Plc abandoned theirs. The
French lender earned 39 million euros from Russia in the first
quarter, or 4.6 percent of its recurring profit. That’s up from
3 million euros a year earlier.  Societe Generale is holding its annual shareholders meeting
today in Paris at 4 p.m. The French bank’s shares rose 0.4
percent to 32.14 euros by 9:19 a.m., giving the company a market
value of about 25 billion euros.  Rosbank (ROSB)  went through an unexpected management shakeout last
week as Chief Executive Officer Vladimir Golubkov was charged
with commercial bribery and faces as long as seven years in
prison if convicted. Golubkov denies any wrongdoing. Rosbank
named First Deputy CEO Igor Antonov as interim head and is
cooperating with the authorities, it said last week.  Societe Generale last week reiterated that Russia is “one
of its core markets” and that it sees “strong growth
potential” in the country. Rosbank is operating “normally”
under acting CEO Antonov and Didier Hauguel, chief country
officer, the French bank said May 16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  