-- SoftBank to Sell 400 Billion Yen Bonds to Individuals for Sprint
-- B y   Y u s u k e   M i y a z a w a
-- 2013-05-21T04:16:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/softbank-to-sell-400-billion-yen-bonds-to-individuals-for-sprint.html
SoftBank Corp. (9984) , the Japanese carrier
bidding to take over  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  in a $20.1 billion
deal, plans to sell 400 billion yen ($3.9 billion) of bonds
targeting individual investors to fund the purchase.  The mobile-phone company will price the five-year notes to
yield from 1.25 percent to 2.25 percent on June 3, according to
a filing with  Japan ’s Finance Ministry today. The securities
will be offered from June 4 to 19, according to the filing. The
offering will be the largest by SoftBank, which has raised the
equivalent of $6.9 billion in bonds since the transaction was
announced in October, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The acquisition is being challenged by  Dish Network Corp. (DISH) ’s
$25.5 billion offer. President Masayoshi Son, Japan’s second-richest person, reiterated this month he won’t increase the bid,
even as firms from Daiwa Securities Group Inc. to BNP Paribas SA
say the company has scope to raise the amount by $5 billion.
SoftBank plans to complete the deal under the terms announced on
July 1.  SoftBank will use proceeds from the latest bond sale to
help pay for the Sprint Nextel acquisition and to repay maturing
debt, Tokyo-based spokesman  Takeaki Nukii  said in a telephone
interview today, declining to provide the breakdown.  The offering will be managed by nine brokerages including
Daiwa Securities and Nomura Holdings Inc., according to today’s
filing.  Japan’s third-largest wireless operator offered 300 billion
yen of 1.47 percent four-year bonds to individuals, often also
referred to as retail investors, in February, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The company raised $2.485 billion and 625
million euros in seven-year notes last month, the data show.  Moody’s Investors Service rates SoftBank at Baa3, its
lowest investment-grade, while Standard & Poor’s has it at BBB,
its second-lowest, the data show. Moody’s said last month it’s
reviewing its rating because the outcome of the deal is
uncertain following the Dish Network bid.  S&P has placed the carrier on credit watch with negative
implications. The risk assessor may cut the grade by two levels
to BB+ should the transaction proceed, it said in a March 29
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yusuke Miyazawa in Tokyo at 
 ymiyazawa3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  