-- South Africa Plans Water Pipeline to Supply Northern Coal Mines
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2013-05-21T13:13:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/south-africa-plans-water-pipeline-to-supply-northern-coal-mines.html
South Africa  will begin building a
70-kilometer (44-mile) pipeline this year to supply water from a
reservoir in the north to local coal mines, Water and
Environmental Affairs Minister Edna Molewa said.  The De Hoop Dam in Limpopo Province is almost complete and
water storage has begun, the minister said today in Cape Town.
Work on a separate pipeline that will supply other parts of the
province is under way with first deliveries expected by July,
she said. The minister gave no cost estimate, spokesman Sputnik
Rantau said by phone from Cape Town.  The mines are in the Waterberg area, which contains about
75 billion metric tons of coal, or 40 percent of South Africa’s
resources, according to state power utility Eskom Holdings SOC
Ltd. Coal producers including Exxaro Resources Ltd. say lack of
water is the main hurdle for mining in the region.  “Once complete, our government would have invested in
excess of 4.5 billion rand ($471 million) on the project, which
will benefit more than 2 million people,” Molewa said. The
reservoir will have a gross capacity of 347 million cubic meters
(12.3 billion cubic feet), the dam’s website  shows .  Molewa also said work to raise the Hazelmere Dam in the
eastern KwaZulu-Natal Province will begin before year-end,
permitting supplies to a new industrial park north of Durban and
more households. Progress has been made on construction of the
Spring Groves Dam, which will supply other towns in the
province, she said.  About 95 percent of South African households now have
potable water, up from 62 percent when apartheid ended in 1994,
government statistics show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at   nseria@bloomberg.net  