-- Spain’s Bad Bank Begins 15-Year Suicide With Bull Sale
-- B y   H e a t h e r   P e r l b e r g   a n d   D a v i d   C a r e y
-- 2013-05-22T19:45:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/spains-bad-bank-begins-15-year-suicide-with-bull-sale.html
Spain ’s Sareb, set up last year to
acquire 90 billion euros ($116 billion) of soured real estate
assets at a discount from rescued lenders, is preparing its
first sale, known as ‘Project Bull,’ to test the beleaguered
property market’s ability to attract investors.  Sareb has hired  KPMG  LLP to market a pool of homes located
in the south and east of Spain, in Andalusia and Valencia, as
well as unfinished buildings, according to four people with
knowledge of the auction. Bids are due by July 18 on the real
estate, which could be worth about 200 million euros, said the
people, who asked not to be named because it’s private.  “Success on the first sale would be a signal to other
investors that there’s an opportunity here, but this is a big
hurdle,” said Lee Tyrrell-Hendry, a credit strategist at Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc in  London . “Investors are looking
for yield and Spain is one of the few areas you can get it, but
that is because there are still huge risks and the economic
outlook is still weak.”  Private equity firms including  Leon Black ’s  Apollo Global
Management LLC (APO) , Thomas Barrack Jr.’s  Colony Capital LLC  and
billionaire Wilbur Ross are among those circling, looking for
ways to profit from Spain’s property crash, which sent home
prices down 39 percent since the 2007 peak and drove
unemployment to 27.2 percent. Foreign investment will be
critical to Sareb, which must meet a target of 1.5 billion euros
in sales this year to demonstrate its viability to investors.  Toxic Assets  Under Chairwoman Belen Romana, Sareb has pledged to sell
about 45,000 properties, approximately half its stock, in the
first five years, and has a maximum 15-year lifespan. Over that
period it aims to generate an annual internal rate of return of
13- to 14 percent for its shareholders, before shutting down.  Spain created its bad bank last year to help lenders facing
capital shortages sell their toxic real estate assets as part of
the commitments agreed to for a bailout of 41 billion euros from
the European Union. Investors including  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,
 Barclays Plc (BARC) , Spanish lenders and insurance companies agreed to
purchase 55 percent of the capital in Sareb, allowing the
government to keep the facility’s debts off its books.  The unit bought almost 200,000 assets, mostly plots of land
and housing, for about 50 billion euros, with average discounts
ranging from about 46 percent on loans to as much as 80 percent
on land purchases, from eight Spanish banks starting in
December.  Sareb’s first sale contains about 38 completed
developments, many in Andalusia and Valencia, and at least one
unfinished project, according to the people with knowledge of
the offering.  ‘Real Push’  “They probably will find buyers because right now there’s
a real push out there to find assets on the part of investors,
but there’s risk that goes into this obviously,” said  Scott MacDonald , head of research at  Stamford , Connecticut-based
investment firm MC Asset Management Holdings LLC and co-author
of “When Small Countries Crash.” Central banks have pumped in
a massive amount of money, he said, pushing investors to look
for yields and fueling demand for riskier trades.  The extra yield investors demand to hold  junk bonds  rather
than government debt fell this month to 4.23 percentage points,
the least since 2007. Spanish 10-year yields have dropped to
about 4.20 percent from 5.17 percent at the end of January.  A Sareb spokesman declined to comment on the sale and
Christina Milner, a spokeswoman for KPMG’s Spanish affiliate,
KPMG Asesores SL, did not respond to a request for comment.  Sareb holdings also include 76,357 vacant and 6,293 rented
homes, along with 14,859 parcels of land. The institution also
owns property development loans, for 61,702 finished and 3,924
projects under construction, according to Sareb.  Economic Troubles  “Spain is still suffering from rising  unemployment ,
bankruptcies and declining confidence, so the bad bank may want
to wait another few years before selling more assets in order to
realize more value as economic conditions gradually stabilize,”
Tyrrell-Hendry said.  Sareb is already luring foreign investors and private
equity firms, which have been negotiating to purchase
properties, according to people with knowledge of the
negotiations.  Apollo, which raised a $3.6 billion fund last year to
invest in European non-performing loans and other assets, may be
interested in buying completed apartment units close to large
cities, which would need to be rented or sold, according to two
people familiar with the matter who asked not to be identified
because the strategy is private.  Charles Zehren , a spokesman for  New York  based Apollo,
declined to comment. The investment firm oversees $113 billion.  Unfinished Residential  Colony, which has bought about $50 billion of real estate
since it was founded in 1991, is seeking to finance well-located
unfinished residential assets, said people familiar with the
matter, who also asked not to be identified because the
negotiations are private.  Lisa Baker , a spokeswoman for Los Angeles-based Colony,
declined to comment.  Wilbur Ross said May 20 on Bloomberg Television he will
visit Spain later this week. He’s weighing investing in its
banks amid signs the country is starting “to come to grips”
with its financial crisis and will consider buying assets put up
for sale by Sareb.  Property Challenges  The bad bank faces challenges in selling its real estate.
Around 400,000 foreclosures have been ordered in the country
after the decade-long property bubble burst in 2008 and
unemployment is the highest in at least 37 years. Mariano Rajoy’s People Party is pursuing the harshest austerity measures
in the country’s democratic history to curtail surging borrowing
costs that last year pushed Spain to the verge of a bailout.  Voters have elected populist politicians in some regions
advocating measures that complicate asset sales. In Andalusia,
the regional government is planning to expropriate foreclosed
properties for as long as three years.  Home prices  will fall a further 20 percent over the next
four years as “precarious” economic conditions deter buyers
and as “swathes” of unsold housing stock drag on prices,
Sophie Tahiri, a Paris-based economist for  Standard & Poor’s ,
wrote in a report last month.  Sareb is also competing for buyers with banks that didn’t
receive bailout funds and also are trying to sell assets.  CaixaBank SA is selling 12,000 homes valued at 1.5 billion
euros, Spain’s El Confidencial reported last month.  FAB Funds  Romana, former secretary general of the Circulo de
Empresarios and an ex-board director of  Banco Santander SA (SAN) ’s
consumer unit Banesto, wants to find buyers wherever she can to
ensure the bad bank dies within the 15-year horizon.  In addition to sales through retail channels, Sareb is
setting up Spain’s first Bank Asset Funds, or FABs, which will
be tax-attractive vehicles designed to appeal to foreign
investors. Their creation and operation will be supervised by
the Spanish stock exchange commission.  “For Spain to get out of its current economic woes, it
needs to get rid of a lot of the dead weight that is sitting in
the banking sector,” said MC Asset’s MacDonald. “The bad bank
plays a role in terms of helping to get the bad assets out of
the system, to restructure them and be able to sell them off. It
adds a positive factor, but you have a fair amount of work ahead
of you.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Heather Perlberg in New York at 
 hperlberg@bloomberg.net 
David Carey in New York at 
 dcarey13@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  